On September 10th, we opened the first Red Cross Hospital which was also used in connection
with the Russian Red Cross Hospital and was served by Russian Red Cross nurses. Captain Hall
and Lieutenant Kiley were in charge of the hospital.

A few days later an infirmary was opened for the machine gunners and Company "C" of the engineers
at Solombola.

A good story goes in connection with this piece of history of the little Red Cross hospital
on Troitsky near Olga barracks. There had been rumor and more or less open declaration of the
British medical authorities that the Americans would not be permitted to start a hospital of
their own in Archangel. The Russian sisters who owned the building were interested observers
as to the outcome of this clash in authority. It was settled one morning about ten o'clock
in a spectacular manner much to the satisfaction of the Americans and Russians. Captain Wynn
of the American Red Cross came to the assistance of Captain Hall, supplying the American flag
and helping raise it over the building and dared the British to take it down. Then he supplied
the hospital with beds and linen and other supplies and comfort bags for the men, dishes, etc.
This little hospital is a haven of rest that appears in the dreams today of many a doughboy
who went through those dismal days of the first month in Archangel. There they got American
treatment and as far as possible food cooked in American style.

In October the number of sick and wounded men was so large that another hospital for the exclusive
use of convalescents was opened in an old Russian sailor's home in the near vicinity of American
Headquarters.

RED CROSS PHOTO Surgical Operation American Receiving Hospital, Archangel, 1918

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Old Glory Protects Our Hospital

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Used as 53rd Stationary Hospital

U. S OFFICIAL PHOTO Sailors from "Olympia" Fought Reds

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO After 17-Hour March in Forest

U.S. Official Photo Loading a Drosky at Obozerskaya

U.S. Official Photo Wireless operators--Signal Platoon

During this controversy with the British medical authorities, the head American medical officer
was always handicapped, as indeed was many a fighting line officer, by the fact that the British
medical officer outranked him. Let it be understood right here that many a British officer
was decorated with insignia of high rank but drew pay of low rank. It was actually done over
and over again to give the British officer ranking authority over the American officers.

What American doughboy who ever went through the old 53rd Stationary hospital will ever forget
his homesickness and feeling of outrage at the treatment by the perhaps well-meaning but nevertheless
callous and coarse British personnel. Think of tea, jam and bread for sick and wounded men.
An American medical sergeant who has often eaten with the British sergeants at that hospital,
Sergeant Glenn Winslow, who made out the medical record for every wounded and sick man of the
Americans who went through the various hospitals at Archangel, and who was frequently present
at the British sergeant's mess at the hospital, relates that there were plenty of fine foods
and delicacies and drink for the sergeant's messes, corroborated by Mess Sgt. Vincent of. "F"
Company. And a similar story was told by an American medical officer who was invalided home
in charge of over fifty wounded Americans. He had often heard that the comforts and delicacies
among the British hospital supplies went to the British officers' messes. Captain Pyle was
in command on the icebreaker "Canada" and saw to it that the limited supply of delicacies went
to the wounded men most in need of it. There were several British officers on the icebreaker
enroute to Murmansk who set up a pitiful cry that they had seen none of the extras to which
they were accustomed, thinking doubtless that the American officer was holding back on them.
Captain Pyle on the big ship out of Murmansk took occasion to request of the British skipper
that the American wounded on board the ship be given more food and more palatable food. He
was asked if he expected more for the doughboy than was given to the Tommie. The American officer's
reply was characteristic of the difference between the attitude of British and American officers
toward the enlisted man:

"No, sir, it is not a question of different treatment as between Tommie and doughboy. It is
difference in the feeding of the wounded and sick American officers and the feeding of wounded
and sick American enlisted men. My government makes no such great difference. I demand that
my American wounded men be fed more like the way in which the officers on this ship are fed."

Lest we forget, this same medical officer in charge at one time of a temporary hospital at
a key point in the field, was over-ranked and put under a British medical officer who brought
about the American officer's recall to the base because he refused to put the limited American
medical personnel of enlisted men to digging latrines for the British officers' quarters.

Many a man discharged from the British 53rd Stationary Hospital as fit for duty, was examined
by American medical officers and put either into our own Red Cross Hospital or into the American
Convalescent Hospital for proper treatment and nourishment back to fighting condition. It was
openly charged by the Americans that several Americans in the British hospital were neglected
till they were bedsore and their lives endangered. Sick and wounded men were required to do
orderly work. When a sturdy American corporal refused to do work or to supervise work of that
nature in the hospital, he was court-martialed by order of the American colonel commanding
the American forces in North Russia. Of course it must needs be said that there were many fine
men among the British medical officers and enlisted personnel. But what they did to serve the
American doughboys was overborne by the mistreatment of the others.

Finally no more wounded Americans were sent to the British hospital and no sick except those
sick under G. O. 45. These latter found themselves cooped up in an old Russian prison, partially
cleaned up for a hospital ward. This was a real chamber of horrors to many an unfortunate soldier
who was buffetted from hospital to Major Young's summary court to hospital or back to the guardhouse,
all the while worrying about the ineffectiveness of his treatment.

So the American soldiers at last got their own receiving hospital and their own convalescent
hospital. Of course at the fighting fronts they were nearly always in the hands of their own
American medical officers and enlisted men. The bright story of the Convalescent Hospital appears
in another place. This receiving hospital was a fine old building which one time had been a
meteorological institute, a Russian imperial educational institution. Its great stone exterior
had gathered a venerable look in its two hundred years. The Americans were to give its interior
a sanitary improvement by way of a set of modern plumbing. But the thing that pleased the wounded
doughboy most was to find himself, when in dreadful need of the probe or knife, under the familiar
and understanding and sympathetic eyes of Majors Henry or Longley or some other American officer,
to find his wants answered by an enlisted man who knew the slang of Broadway and Hamtramck
and the small town slang of "back home in Michigan, down on the farm," and to find his food
cooked and served as near as possible like it was "back home" to a sick man. Blessings on the
medical men!

II

FALL OFFENSIVE ON THE RAILROAD

Third Battalion Hurries From Troopship To Troop-Train Bound For Obozerskaya--We Relieve Wearied
French Battalion--"We Are Fighting An Offensive War"--First Engagement--Memorable Night March
Ends At Edge Of Lake--Our Enemy Compels Respect At Verst 458--American Major Hangs On--Successful
Flank March Takes Verst 455--Front Line Is Set At 445 By Dashing Attack--We Hold It Despite
Severe Bombardments And Heavy Assaults.

On the afternoon of September the fifth the 3rd Battalion of the 339th Infantry debarked hurriedly
at Bakaritza. Doughboys marched down the gangplank with their full field equipment ready for
movement to the fighting front. Somewhere deep in the forest beyond that skyline of pine tree
tops a handful of French and Scots and American sailors were battling the Bolos for their lives.
The anxiety of the British staff officer--we know it was one of General Poole's staff, for
we remember the red band on his cap, was evidenced by his impatience to get the Americans aboard
the string of tiny freight cars.

Doughboys stretched their sea legs comfortably and formed in column of squads under the empty
supply shed on the quay, to escape the cold drizzle of rain, while Major Young explained in
detail how Captain Donoghue was to conduct the second train.

All night long the two troop trains rattled along the Russki railway or stood interminably
at strange-looking stations. The bare box cars were corded deep with sitting and curled up
soldiers fitfully sleeping and starting to consciousness at the jerking and swaying of the
train. Once at a weird log station by the flaring torchlights they had stood for a few minutes
beside a northbound train loaded with Bolshevik prisoners and deserters gathered in that day
after the successful Allied engagement. Morning found them at a big bridge that had been destroyed
by artillery fire of the Red Guards the afternoon before, not far from the important village
of Obozerskaya, a vital keypoint which just now we were to endeavor to organize the defense
of, and use as a depot and junction point for other forces.

No one who was there will forget the initial scene at Obozerskaya when two companies of Americans,
"I" and "L", proceeded' up the railroad track in column of twos and halted in ranks before
the tall station building, with their battalion commander holding officers call at command
of the bugle. An excited little French officer popped out of his dugout and pointed at the
shell holes in the ground and in the station and spoke a terse phrase in French to the British
field staff officer who was gnawing his mustache. The latter overcame his embarrassment enough
to tell Major Young that the French officer feared the Bolo any minute would reopen artillery
fire. Then we realized we were in the fighting zone. The major shouted orders out and shooed
the platoons off into the woods.

Later into the woods the French officers led the Americans who relieved them of their circle
of fortified outposts. Some few in the vicinity of the scattered village made use of buildings,
but most of the men stood guard in the drizzly rain in water up to their knees and between
listening post tricks labored to cut branches enough to build up a dry platform for rest. The
veteran French soldier had built him a fire at each post to dry his socks and breeches legs,
but "the strict old disciplinarian," Major Young, ordered "No fires on the outpost."

And this was war. Far up the railroad track "at the military crest" an outpost trench was dug
in strict accordance with army book plans. The first night we had a casualty, a painful wound
in a doughboy's leg from the rifle of a sentry who cried halt and fired at the same time. An
officer and party on a handcar had been rattling in from a visit to the front outguard. All
the surrounding roads and trails were patrolled.

Armed escorts went with British intelligence officers to outlying villages to assemble the
peasants and tell them why the soldiers were coming into North Russia and enlist their civil
co-operation and inspire them to enlist their young men in the Slavo-British Allied Legion,
that is to put on brass buttoned khaki, eat British army rations, and drill for the day when
they should go with the Allies to clear the country of the detested Bolsheviki. To the American
doughboys it did not seem as though the peasants' wearied-of-war countenances showed much elation
nor much inclination to join up.

The inhabitants of Obozerskaya had fled for the most part before the Reds. Some of the men
and women had been forced to go with the Red Guards. They now crept back into their villages,
stolidly accepted the occupancy of their homes by the Americans, hunted up their horses which
they had driven into the wilderness to save them from the plundering Bolo, greased up their
funny looking little droskies, or carts, and began hauling supplies for the Allied command
and begging tobacco from the American soldiers.

Captain Donoghue with two platoons of "K" Company, the other two having been dropped temporarily
at Issaka Gorka to guard that railroad repair shop and wireless station, now moved right out
by order of Colonel Guard, on September seventh, on a trail leading off toward Tiogra and Seletskoe.
Somewhere in the wilds he would find traces of or might succor the handful of American sailors
and Scots who, under Col. Hazelden, a British officer, had been cornered by the Red Guards.

"Reece, reece," said the excited drosky driver as he greedily accepted his handful of driver's
rations. He had not seen rice for three years. Thankfully he took the food. His family left
at home would also learn how to barter with the generous doughboy for his tobacco and bully
beef and crackers, which at times, very rarely of course, in the advanced sectors, he was lucky
enough to exchange for handfuls of vegetables that the old women plucked out of their caches
in the rich black mould of the small garden, or from a cellar-like hole under a loose board
in the log house.

"Guard duty at Archangel" was aiming now to be a real war, on a small scale but intensive.
Obozerskaya, about one hundred miles south of Archangel, in a few days took on the appearance
of an active field base for aggressive advance on the enemy. Here were the rapid assembling
of fighting units; of transport and supply units; of railroad repairing crews, Russian, under
British officers; of signals; of armored automobile, our nearest approach to a tank, which
stuck in the mud and broke through the frail Russki bridges and was useless; of the feverish
clearing and smoothing of a landing field near the station for our supply of spavined air-planes
that had already done their bit on the Western Front; of the improvement of our ferocious-looking
armored train, with its coal-car mounted naval guns, buttressed with sand bags and preceded
by a similar car bristling with machine guns and Lewis automatics in the hands of a motley
crew of Polish gunners and Russki gunners and a British sergeant or two. This armored train
was under the command of the blue-coated, one-armed old commander Young, hero of the Zeebrugge
Raid, who parked his train every night on the switch track next to the British Headquarters
car, the Blue Car with the Union Jack flying over it and the whole Allied force. Secretly,
he itched to get his armored train into point-blank engagement with the Bolshevik armored train.

"All patrols must be aggressive," directed a secret order of Col. Guard, the British officer
commanding this "A" Force on the railroad, "and it must be impressed on all ranks that we are
fighting an offensive war, and not a defensive one, although for the time being it is the duty
of everybody to get the present area in a sound state of defense. All posts must be held to
the last as we do not intend to give up any ground which we have made good."

And within a week after landing in Russia the American soldier was indeed making head on an
offensive campaign, for on September 11th two platoons of "M" Company reconnoitering in force
met a heavy force of Bolos on similar mission and fought the first engagement with the Red
Guards, driving the Reds from the station at Verst 466 and taking possession of the bridge
at Verst 464.

We had ridden out past the outguard on the armored train, left it and proceeded along the railway.
Remember that first Bolo shell? Well, yes. That thing far down the straight track three miles
away Col. Guard, before going to the rear, derisively told Lieut. Danley could not be a Bolo
armored train but was a sawmill smoke stack. Suddenly it flashed. Then came the distant boom.
Came then the whining, twist-whistling shell that passed over us and showered shrapnel near
the trenches where lay our reserves. He shortened his range but we hurried on and closed with
his infantry with the decision in the American doughboy's favor in his first fight. He had
learned that it takes many shrapnel shells and bullets to hit one man, that to be hit is not
necessarily to be killed.

A few days later "L" Company supported in the nick of time by two platoons of "I" Company repulsed
a savage counter-attack staged by the Red Guards, September 16th, on a morning that followed
the capture of a crashing Red bombing plane in the evening and the midnight conflagration in
"L" Company's fortified camp that might have been misinterpreted as an evacuation by the Bolo.
In this engagement Lieut. Gordon B. Reese and his platoon of "I" Company marked themselves
with distinction by charging the Reds as a last resort when ammunition had been exhausted in
a vain attempt to gain fire superiority against the overwhelming and enveloping Red line, and
gave the Bolshevik soldiers a sample of the fighting spirit of the Americans. And the Reds
broke and ran. Also our little graveyard of brave American soldiers at Obozerskaya began to grow.

It was the evening before when the Bolo airman, who had dropped two small bombs at the Americans
at Obozerskaya, was obliged to volplane to earth on the railroad near the 464 outguard. Major
Young was there at the time. He declared the approaching bomb-plane by its markings was certainly
an Allied plane, ordered the men not to discharge their Lewis gun which they had trained upon
it, and as the Bolos hit the dirt two hundred yards away, he rushed out shouting his command,
which afterwards became famous, "Don't fire! We are Americans." But the Bolo did not "pahneemahya"
and answered with his own Lewis gun sending the impetuous American officer to cover where he
lay even after the Bolo had darted into the woods and the doughboys ran up and pulled the moss
off their battalion commander whom they thought had been killed by the short burst of the Bolo's
automatic fire, as the major had not arisen to reply with his trusty six shooter.

Meanwhile "K" Company had met the enemy on the Seletskoe-Kodish front as will be related later,
and plans were being laid for a converging attack by the Kodish, Onega and Railroad columns
upon Plesetskaya. "L" Company was sent to support "K" Company and the Railroad Force marked
time till the other two columns could get into position for the joint drive. Machine gun men
and medical men coming to us from Archangel brought unverified stories of fighting far up the
Dvina and Onega Rivers where the Bolshevik was gathering forces for a determined stand and
had caused the digging of American graves and the sending back to Archangel of wounded men.
This is told elsewhere. Our patrols daily kept in contact with Red Guard outposts on the railroad,
occasionally bringing in wounded Bolos or deserters, who informed us of intrenchments and armored
trains and augmenting Bolshevik regiments.

Our Allied force of Cossacks proved unreliable and officer's patrols of Americans served better
but owing to lack of maps or guides were able to gain but little information of the forest
trails of the area. British intelligence officers depending on old forester's maps and on deserters
and prisoners and neutral natives allowed the time for "Pat Rooney's work," personal reconnaissance,
to go by till one day, September 28th, General Finlayson arrived at Obozerskaya in person at
noon and peremptorily ordered an advance to be started that afternoon on the enemy's works
at Versts 458 and 455. Col. Sutherland was caught unprepared but had to obey.

Calling up one company of the resting French troops under the veteran African fighter, Captain
Alliez, for support, Col. Sutherland asked Major Young to divide his two American companies
into two detachments for making the flank marches and attacks upon the Red positions. The marches
to be made to position in the afternoon and night and the attacks to were be put on at dawn.
The armored train and other guns manned by the Poles were to give a barrage on the frontal
positions as soon as the American soldiers had opened their surprise flank and rear attacks.
Then the Bolos were supposed to run away and a French company supported by a section of American
machine guns and a "Hq." section that had been trained hastily into a Stokes mortar section,
were to rush in and assist in consolidating the positions gained.

But this hurriedly contrived advance was doomed to failure before it started. There had not
been proper preparations. The main force consisting of "M" Company and two platoons of "I"
Company and a small detachment of Engineers to blow the track in rear of the Bolo position
at 455 was to march many miles by the flank in the afternoon and night but were not provided
with even a map that showed anything but the merest outlines. The other detachment consisting
of two remaining platoons of "I" Company were little better off only they had no such great
distance to go. Both detachments after long hours were unable to reach the objective.

This was so memorable a night march and so typical of the fall operations everywhere that space
has been allowed to describe it. No one had been over the proposed route of march ordered by
Col. Sutherland. No Russian guide could be provided. We must follow the blazed trail of an
east-and-west forest line till we came to a certain broad north-and-south cutting laid out
in the days of Peter the Great. Down this cutting we were to march so many versts, told by
the decaying old notched posts, till we passed the enemy's flank at 455, then turn in toward
the railroad, camp for the night in the woods and attack him in the rear at 6:00 a. m.

At five o'clock in the afternoon the detachment struck into the woods. Lieut. Chantrill, the
pleasant British intelligence officer who acted as interpreter, volunteered to go as guide
although he had no familiarity with the swamp-infested forest area. It was dark long before
we reached the broad cutting. No one will forget the ordeal of that night march. Could not
see the man ahead of you. Ears told you he was tripping over fallen timber or sloshing in knee-deep
bog hole. Hard breathing told the story of exertion. Only above and forward was there a faint
streak of starlight that uncertainly led us on and on south toward the vicinity of the Bolo
positions.

Hours later we emerge from the woods cutting into a great marsh. Far in the dark on the other
side we must hit the cutting in the heavy pine woods. For two hours we struggle on. We lose
our direction. The marsh is a bog. To the right, to the left, in front the tantalizing optical
illusion lures us on toward an apparently firmer footing. But ever the same, or worse, treacherous
mire. We cannot stand a moment in a spot. We must flounder on. The column has to spread. Distress
comes from every side. Men are down and groggy. Some one who is responsible for that body of
men sweats blood and swears hatred to the muddler who is to blame. How clearly sounds the exhaust
of the locomotives in the Bolo camp on the nearby railroad. Will their outguards hear us? Courage,
men, we must get on.

This is a fine end. D-- that unverified old map the Colonel has. It did not show this lake
that baffles our further struggles to advance. Detour of the unknown lake without a guide,
especially in our present exhausted condition, is impossible. (Two weeks later with two Russian
guides and American officers who had explored the way, we thought it a wonderful feat to thread
our way around with a column). Judgment now dictates that it is best to retrace our steps and
cut in at 461 to be in position to be of use in the reserve or in the consolidation. We have
failed to reach our objective but it is not our fault. We followed orders and directions but
they were faulty. It is a story that was to be duplicated over and over by one American force
after another on the various fronts in the rainy fall season, operating under British officers
who took desperate chances and acted on the theory that "You Americans," as Col. Sutherland
said, "can do it somehow, you know." And as to numbers, why, "Ten Americans are as good as
a hundred Bolos, aren't they?"

But how shall we extricate ourselves? Who knows where the cutting may be found? Can staggering
men again survive the treacherous morass? It is lighter now. We will pick our way better. But
where is the cutting? Chantrill and the Captain despair. Have we missed it in, the dark? Then
we are done for. Where is the "I" Co. detachment again? Lost? Here Corporal Grahek, and you,
Sgt. Getzloff, you old woodsmen from north Michigan pines, scout around here and find the cutting
and that rear party. Who is it that you men are carrying?

No trace of the rear part of the column nor of the cutting! One thing remains to do. We must
risk a shout, though the Reds may hear.

"Danley! eeyohoh!"

"Yes, h-e-e-e-r-r-e on the c-u-t-t-i-n-g!"

Did ever the straight and narrow way seem so good. The column is soon united again and the
back trail despondingly begun. Daylight of a Sunday morning aids our footsteps. We cross again
the stream we had waded waist deep in the pitch dark and wondered that no one had been drowned.

Zero hour arrives and we listen to the artillery of both sides and for the rat-tat-tat of the
Bolo machine guns when our forces move on the bridgehead. We hurry on. The battle is joined.
Pine woods roar and reverberate with roar. By taking a nearer blazed trail we may come out
to the railway somewhere near the battle line.

At 8:40 a. m. we emerge from the woods near our armored train. At field headquarters, Major
Nichols, who in the thick of the battle has arrived to relieve Major Young, orders every man
at once to be made as comfortable as possible. Men build fires and warm and dry their clammy
water-soaked feet, picture of which is shown in this volume. Bully and tea and hard tack revive
a good many. It is well they do, for the fight is going against us and two detachments of volunteers
from these men are soon, to be asked for to go forward to the battle line.

Considerable detail has been given about this march of "I" and "M" because writer was familiar
with it, but a similar story might be told of "H" in the swamps on the Onega, or of "K" or
"L" and "M. G." at Kodish, or of "A," "B," "C" or "D" on the River Fronts, and with equal praise
for the hardihood of the American doughboy hopelessly mired in swamps and lost in the dense
forests, baffled in his attempts because of no fault of his own, but ready after an hour's
rest to go at it again, as in this case when a volunteer platoon went forward to support the
badly suffering line. The Red Guards composed of the Letts and sailors were fiercely counter-attacking
and threatening to sweep back the line and capture field-headquarters.

During the preceding hours the French company had pressed in gallantly after the artillery
and machine gun barrage and captured the bridgehead, and, supported by the American machine
gun men and the trench mortar men, had taken the Bolo's first trench line, seeking to consolidate
the position.

Lieut. Keith of "Hq." Company with twenty-one men and three Stokes mortars had gone through
the woods and taking a lucky direction, avoided the swamp and cut in to the railroad, arriving
in the morning just after the barrage and the French infantry attack had driven the Reds from
their first line. They took possession of three Bolshevik shacks and a German machine gun,
using hand grenades in driving the Reds out. Then they placed their trench mortars in position
to meet the Bolo counter-attack.

The Bolos came in on the left flank under cover of the woods, the French infantry at that time
being on the right flank in the woods, and two platoons of Americans being lost somewhere on
the left in the swamp. This counterattack of the Reds was repulsed by the trench mortar boys
who, however, found themselves at the end of the attack with no more ammunition for their mortars,
Col. Sutherland not having provided for the sending of reserve ammunition to the mortars from
Obozerskaya. Consequently the second attack of the Reds was waited with anxiety. The Reds were
in great force and well led. They came in at a new angle and divided the Americans and French,
completely overwhelming the trench mortar men's rifle fire and putting Costello's valiant machine
guns out of action, too. Lieut Keith was severely wounded, one man was killed, four wounded
and three missing. Sgt. Kolbe and Pvt. Driscoll after prodigies of valor with their machine
guns were obliged to fall back with the French. Kolbe was severely wounded. So the Bolo yells
that day sounded in triumph as they won back their positions from the Americans and French.

The writer knows, for he heard those hellish yells. Under cover of the single "M" Company platoon
rushed up to the bridge, the Americans and French whose gallant efforts had gone for naught
because Col. Sutherland's battle plan was a "dud," retired to field headquarters at 461. A
half platoon of "I" men hurried up to support. The veteran Alliez encouraged the American officer
Captain Moore, to hang on to the bridge. Lieut. Spitler came on with a machine gun and the
position was consolidated and held in spite of heavy shelling by the Bolo armored trains and
his desperate raids at night and in the morning, for the purpose of destroying the bridge.
His high explosive tore up the track but did no damage to the bridge. His infantry recoiled
from the Lewis gun and machine gun fire of the Americans that covered the bridge and its approaches.

The day's operations had been costly. The French had lost eight, killed and wounded and missing.
The Americans had lost four killed, fourteen wounded, among whom were Lieuts. Lawrence Keith
and James R. Donovan, and five missing. Many of these casualties were suffered by the resolute
platoon at the bridge. There Lieut. Donovan was caught by machine gun fire and a private by
shrapnel from a searching barrage of the Bolos, as was also a sergeant of "F" Company who was
attached for observation. But the eight others who were wounded, two of them mortally, owed
their unfortunate condition to the altogether unnecessary and ill-advised attempt by Col. Sutherland
to shell the bridge which was being held by his own troops. He had the panicky idea that the
Red Guards were coming or going to come across that bridge and ordered the shrapnel which cut
up the platoon of "M" Company with its hail of lead instead of the Reds who had halted 700
yards away and themselves were shelling the bridge but to no effect. Not only that but when
Col. Sutherland was informed that his artillery was getting his own troops, he first asked
on one telephone for another quart of whisky and later called up his artillery officer and
ordered the deadly fire to lengthen range. This was observed by an American soldier, Ernest
Roleau, at Verst 466, who acted as interpreter and orderly in Sutherland's headquarters that day.

The British officer sadly retired to his Blue Car headquarters at Verst 466, thinking the Reds
would surely recapture the bridge. But Major Nichols in command at field headquarters at Verst
461 thought differently. When the order came over the wire for him to withdraw his Americans
from the bridge, this infantry reserve officer whose previously most desperate battle, outside
of a melee between the Bulls and Bears on Wall Street, had been to mashie nib out of a double
bunkered trap on the Detroit Country Club golf course, as usual with him, took "plenty of sand."
He shoved the order to one side till he heard from the officer at the front and then requested
a countermanding order. He made use of the veteran Alliez's counsel. And for two dubious nights
and days with "M" and "I" Companies he held on to the scant three miles of advance which had
been paid for so dearly. And the Reds never did get back the important bridge.

Now it was evident that the Bolshevik rear-guard action was not to be scared out. It was bent
on regaining its ground. During these last September days of supposed converging drive in three
columns on Plesetskaya our widely separated forces had all met with stiff resistance and been
worsted in action. The Bolshevik had earned our respect as a fighter. More fighting units were
hurried up. Our "A" Force Command began careful reconnaissance and plans of advance. American
officers and doughboys had their first experiences, of the many experiences to follow, of taking
out Russian guides and from their own observations and the crude old maps and from doubtful
hearsay to piece together a workable military sketch of the densely forested area.

Artillery actions and patrol actions were almost daily diet till, with the advance two weeks
later on October thirteenth, the offensive movement started again. This time French and Americans
closely co-operated. The Reds evidently had some inkling of it, for on the morning when the
amalgamated "M"-"Boyer" force entered the woods, inside fifteen minutes the long, thin column
of horizon blue and olive drab was under shrapnel fire of the Bolo. With careful march this
force gained the flank and rear of the enemy at Verst 455, and camped in a hollow square, munched
on hardtack and slept on their arms in the cold rain. Lieut. Stoner, Capt. Boyer, the irrepressible
French fun-maker, Capt. Moore and Lieut. Giffels slept on the same patch of wet moss with the
same log for a pillow, unregardful of the TNT in the Engineer officer's pocket, which was for
use the next morning in blowing the enemy's armored train.

At last 5:00 a. m. comes but it is still dark and foggy. Men stretch their cold and cramped
limbs after the interminable night. No smokes. No eats. In ten minutes of whispering the columns
are under way. The leading platoon gets out of our reach. Delay while we get a new guide lets
them get on ahead of the other platoons. Too bad. It spoils the plan. The main part of the
attacking forces can not press forward fast enough to catch up. The engineers will be too late
to blow the track in rear of the Bolo train.

The Red Guard listening posts and his big tower on the flank now stand him in good stead. He
sees the little platoon of Franco-Americans approaching in line, and sends out a superior force
to meet the attack. Ten minutes of stiff fire fight ensues during which the other attacking
platoons strive to get up to their positions in rear and rear flank. But our comrades are evidently
out-numbered and being worsted. We must spring our attack to save them.

Oh, those bugles! Who ever heard of a half mile charge? And such a melee. Firing and yelling
and tooting like ten thousand the main party goes in. What would the first "old man" of the
339th, our beloved Colonel John W. Craig, have said at sight of that confused swarm of soldiers
heading straight for the Bolo positions. Lucky for us the Bolo does not hold his fire till
we swarm out of the woods. As it is in his panic he blazes away into the woods pointblank with
his artillery mounted on the trains and with his machine guns, two of which only are on ground
positions. And his excited aim is characteristically high, Slavo Bogga. We surge in. He jumps
to his troop trains, tries to cover his withdrawal by the two machine guns, and gets away,
but with hundreds of casualties from our fire that we pour into the moving trains. Marvellous
luck, we have monkeyed with a buzz saw and suffered only slight casualties, one American killed
and four wounded. Two French wounded.

The surprise at 455 threw "the wind" up the Bolo's back at his forward positions, 457 and 457-1/2,
and Lieuts. Primm and Soyer's amalgamated French-American attacking party won a quick victory.
The armored train came on through over the precious bridge at Verst 458, the track was repaired
and our artillery came up to 455 and answered the Red armored train that was shelling us while
we consolidated the position. Lieut. Anselmi's resolute American signal men unmindful of the
straggling Bolos who were working south in the woods along the railroad, "ran" the railway
telephone lines back to field headquarters at 458 and established communications with Major
Nichols.

As soon as transportation was open "I" Company and Apsche's company of French moved up and
went on through to battle the Reds in the same afternoon out of their position at Verst 450
where they had rallied and to advance on the fifteenth to a position at 448, where the Americans
dug in. Trouble with the French battalion was brewing for the British Command. The poilus had
heard of the proposed armistice on the Western Front. "La guerre finis," they declared, and
refused to remain with "I" Company on the line.

So on October sixteenth this company found itself single-handed holding the advanced position
against the counter-attack of the reinforced Reds. After a severe artillery barrage of the
Reds, Captain Winslow pushed forward to meet the attack of the Bolos and fought a drawn battle
with them in the woods in the afternoon. Both sides dug in. "I" Company lost one killed and
four wounded.

Meanwhile "M" Company, after one day to reorganize and rest, hurried up during the afternoon
fight and prepared to relieve "I" Company. Sleeping on their arms around the dull-burning fires
at 448 between noisy periods of night exchanges of fire by the Americans and Red Guards, this
company next morning at 6:00 a. m. went through under a rolling barrage of Major Lee's artillery,
which had been able to improve its position during the night, thanks to the resolute work of
Lieut. Giffels and his American Engineers on the railroad track. Stoner's platoon destroyed
the heavy outpost of Bolos with a sharp fire fight and a charge and swept on, only halting
when he reached a large stream. Beyond this was a half-mile square clearing with characteristic
woodpiles and station and woodmen's houses, occupied by a heavy force of six hundred Red Guards,
themselves preparing for attack on the Americans. Here Captain Moore timed his three platoons
and Lieut. Spitler's machine guns for a rush on three sides with intent to gain a foothold
at least within the clearing. The very impetuosity of the doughboy's noisy attack struck panic
into the poorly led Bolsheviks and they won an easy victory, having possession of the position
inside half an hour. The Reds were routed and pursued beyond the objectives set by Col. Sutherland.
And the old company horse shoe again worked. Though many men had their clothes riddled not
a man was scratched.

The position was consolidated. An hour after the engagement two sections of the French Company
that had sulked the preceding day came smilingly up and helped fortify the flanks. Their beloved
old battalion commander, Major Alabernarde, had shamed them out of their mutinous conduct and
they were satisfied again to help their much admired American comrades in this strange, faraway
side show of the great world war.

One or two interesting reminiscences here crowd in. It was during the charge on 445 that Lieut.
Stoner missed a dugout door by a foot with his hand grenade and his tender heart near froze
with horror an hour afterward when he came back from pursuit of the Reds to find that with
the one Bolo soldier in the dugout were cowering twenty-seven women and children, one eight
days old. The red-whiskered old Bolo soldier had a hand grenade in his pocket and Sergeant
Dundon nearly shook his yellow teeth loose trying to make him reply to questions in English.
And the poor varlet nearly expired with terror later in the day when Lieut. Riis of the American
Embassy stood him up with his back against a shack. "Comrades, have mercy on me! My wife and
my children," he begged as he fell on his knees before the click of the camera.

Another good story was often told about the alleged "Bolo Spy Dog Patrols" first discovered
when the British officer led his Royal Scots, most of them raw Russian recruits, to the front
posts at 445 to reinforce "M" Co. "Old Ruble" had been a familiar sight to the Americans. At
this time he had picked up a couple of cur buddies, and was staying with the Americans at the
front, having perpetual pass good at any part of the four-square outpost. But the British officer
reported him to the American officer as a sure-enough trained Bolshevik patrol dog and threatened
to shoot him. And at four o'clock the next morning they did fire at the dogs and started up
the nervous Red Guards into machine gun fire from their not distant trench line and brought
everyone out to man our lines for defense. And the heavy enemy shelling cut up Scots (Russians)
as well as Americans.

Here the fall advance on the Archangel-Vologda Railway ended. We were a few versts north of
Emtsa, but "mnoga, mnoga versts," many versts, distant from Vologda, the objective picked by
General Poole for this handful of men. Emtsa was a railroad repair shop village. We wanted
it. General Ironside who relieved Poole, however, had issued a general order to hold up further
advances on all the fronts. So we dug in. Winter would soon be on, anyway.

The Red Guards, however, meant to punish us for the capture of this position. He thoroughly
and savagely shelled the position repeatedly and the British artillery moved up as the Yankee
engineers restored the destroyed railroad track and duelled daily with the very efficient Red
artillery. We have to admit that with his knowledge of the area the Red artillery officer had
the best of the strategy and the shooting. He had the most guns too.

Major Nichols was heard to remark the day after he had been through the severe six gun barrage
of the Reds who poured their wrath on the Americans at 445 before they could but more than
get slight shrapnel shelters made, and had suffered four casualties, and the Royal Scots had
lost a fine Scotch lieutenant and two Russian soldiers. "This shelling of course would be small
peanuts to the French and British soldiers who were on the Western Front, but to us Americans
fresh from the fields and city offices and shops of Michigan it is a little hell." And so the
digging was good at 445 during the last of October and the first of November while Major Nichols
with "M" and "I" and French and American machine gun sections held this front.

On the fourth of November "I" Company supported by the French machine gunners sustained a terrific
attack by the Reds in powerful force, repulsed them finally after several hours, with great
losses, and gained from General Ironside a telegram of congratulations. "I" Co. lost one killed,
one missing, two wounded, one of which was Lieut. Reese. After that big attack the enemy left
us in possession and we began to fear winter as much as we did the enemy. The only event that
broke the routine of patrols and artillery duels was the accidental bombing by our Allied airplane
of our position instead of the half-mile distant enemy trenches, one of the two 112-lb. bombs
taking the life of Floyd Sickles, "M" Company's barber and wounding another soldier.

Amusing things also are recalled. The American medical officer at the front line one morning
looked at a French soldier who seemed to be coming down with a heavy cold and generously doped
him up with hot water and whiskey. Next morning the whole machine gun section of French were
on sick call. But Collins was wise, and perhaps his bottle was empty.

One day a big, husky Yank in "I" Company was brokenly "parlevooing" with a little French gunner,
who was seen to leap excitedly into the air and drape himself about the doughboy's neck exclaiming
with joy, "My son, my son, my dear sister's son." This is the truth. And he took the Yank over
to his dugout for a celebration of this strange family meeting, filled him up with sour wine,
and his pockets with pictures of dancing girls.

Of course we were to learn to our discomfort and peril that winter was the time chosen by Trotsky
for his counter-offensive against the Allied forces in the North. Of that winter campaign we
shall tell in later chapters. We leave the Americans now on the railroad associated with their
French comrades and 310th Engineers building blockhouses for defense and quarters to keep warm.

III

RIVER PUSH FOR KOTLAS

First Battalion Hurries Up The River--We Take Chamova--The Lay Of The River Land--Battling
For Seltso--Retire To Yakovlevskoe--That Most Wonderful Smoke--Incidents Of The March--Sudden
Shift To Shenkursk Area--The Battalion Splits--Again At Seltso--Bolos Attack--Edvyinson A Hero.

That dismal, gloomy day--September 6, 1915--the first battalion, under Lt.-Col. James Corbley,
spent on board transport, watching the third battalion disembark and getting on board the freight
cars that were to carry them down to the Railroad Front. Each man on board was aching to set
foot on dry land once more and would gladly have marched to any front in order to avoid the
dull monotony aboard ship, with nothing of interest to view but the gleaming spires of the
cathedrals or the cold, gray northern sky, but there is an end to all such trials, and late
that evening we received word that our battalion was to embark on several river barges to proceed
up the Dvina River.

The following day all hands turned to bright and early and from early dawn until late that
afternoon every man that was able to stand, and some that were not, were busily engaged in
making up packs, issuing ammunition and loading up the barges. By six o'clock that evening
they had marched on board the barges--some of the men in the first stages of "flu" had to be
assisted on board with their packs. These barges, as we afterward learned, were a good example
of the Russian idea of sanitation and cleanliness. They had been previously used for hauling
coal, cattle, produce, flax, and a thousand-and-one other things, and in their years of usage
had accumulated an unbelievable amount of filth and dirt. In addition to all this, they were
leaky, and the lower holds, where hundreds of men had to sleep that week, were cold, dismal
and damp. Small wonder that our little force was daily decreased by sickness and death. After
five days of this slow, monotonous means of travel, we finally arrived at the town of Beresnik,
which afterward became the base for the river column troops.

The following day "A" Company, 339th Infantry, under Capt. Otto Odjard, took over the defense
of the village in order to relieve a detachment of Royal Scots who were occupying the town.
All that day we saw and heard the dull roar of the artillery further up the river, where the
Royal Scots, accompanied by a gunboat, were attempting to drive the enemy before them. Meeting
with considerable opposition in the vicinity of Chamova, a village about fifty versts from
Beresnik, a rush call was sent in for American reinforcements.

The first battalion of the 339th Infantry left Beresnik about September 15th under command
of Major Corbley, and started up the Dvina. The first incident worthy of record occurred at
Chamova. As advance company we arrived about 1:00 a. m. at Chamova, which was garrisoned by
a small force of Scots. We put out our outposts in the brush which surrounded the town, and
shortly afterward, about 5:00 a. m., we were alarmed by the sound of musketry near the river
bank. We deployed and advanced to what seemed to be a small party from a gunboat. They had
killed two Scots who had mistaken them for a supply boat from Beresnik and gone to meet them
empty-handed. The Bolo had regained his boat after a little firing between him and the second
platoon which was at the upper end of the village. We were trying to locate oars for the clumsy
Russian barzhaks on the bank, intending to cross to the island where the gunboat was moored
and do a little navy work, when the British monitor hove into sight around a bend about three
miles down stream, and opened fire on the gunboat. The first shot was a little long, the second
a little short, and the third was a clean hit amid ship which set the gunboat on fire. John
Bolo in the meantime took a hasty departure by way of the island. We were immensely disappointed
by the advent of the monitor, as the gunboat would have been very handy in navigating the Russian
roads.

This Monitor, by the way, was much feared by the Russians, but was very temperamental, and
if it was sadly needed, as it was later at Toulgas when we were badly outranged, it reposed
calmly at Beresnik. When the Monitor first made its advent on the Dvina she steamed into Beresnik,
and her commander inquired loftily, "Where are the bloody Bolsheviks, and which is the way
to Kotlas?" Upon being informed she steamed boldly up the Dvina on the road to Kotlas, found
the Bolo, who promptly slapped a shell into their internal workings, killing several men and
putting the Monitor temporarily hors de combat. After that the Monitor was very prudent and
displayed no especial longing to visit Kotlas.

In order to better comprehend the situation and terrain of the river forces, a few words regarding
the two rivers and their surroundings will not be without interest. This region is composed
of vast tundras or marshes and the balance of the entire province is covered with almost impenetrable
forests of pine and evergreen of different varieties. The tundras or marshes are very treacherous,
for the traveler marching along on what appears to be a rough strip of solid ground, suddenly
may feel the same give way and he is precipitated into a bath of ice cold muddy water. Great
areas of these tundras are nothing more than a thickly woven matting of grasses and weeds overgrowing
creeks or ponds and many a lonely traveler has been known to disappear in one of these marshes
never to be seen again.

This condition is especially typical of the Dvina River. The Dvina is a much larger river than
the Vaga and compares favorably to the lower Mississippi in our own country. It meanders and
spreads about over the surrounding country by a thousand different routes, inasmuch as there
are practically no banks and nothing to hold it within its course. The Vaga, on the other hand,
is a narrower and swifter river and much more attractive and interesting. It has very few islands
and is lined on either side by comparatively steep bluffs, varying from fifty to one hundred
feet in height. The villages which line the banks are larger and comparatively more prosperous,
but regarding the villages more will be said later.

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO A Shell Screeched Over This Burial Scene

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Vickers Machine Gun Helping Hold Lines

U S OFFICIAL PHOTO Our Armored Train

RENICKE First Battalion Hurries Up River

RED CROSS PHOTO Lonely Post in Dense Forest

MORRIS Statue of Peter the Great and State Buildings in Archangel

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Drawing Rations, Verst 455

RED CROSS PHOTO Last Honors to a Soldier

We continued our march up the Dvina, about two days behind the fleeing Bolo, hoping that he
would decide to make a stand. This he did at Seltso. On the morning of September 19th, through
mud and water, at times waist deep and too precarious for hauling artillery, the advance began
on Seltso. At 1:00 p. m. the advance party, "D" Company, under Captain Coleman, reached Yakovlevskaya,
a village just north of Seltso and separated from it by a mile of wide open marsh which is
crossed by a meandering arm of the nearby Dvina. A single road and bridge lead across to Seltso.
"D" Company gallantly deployed and wading the swamp approached within one thousand five hundred
yards of the enemy, who suddenly opened up with machine guns, rifles, and Russian pom pom.
This latter gun is a rapid fire artillery piece, firing a clip of five shells weighing about
one pound apiece, in rapid succession. We later discovered that they, as well as most of the
flimsy rifles, were made by several of the prominent gun manufacturers of the United States.

"D" Company found further advance impossible without support and dug in. "C" Company under
Capt. Fitz Simmons hurried up and took position in a tongue of woods at the right of "D" and
were joined after dark by "B" Company. None of the officers in command of this movement knew
anything of the geography nor much of anything else regarding this position, so the men were
compelled to dig in as best they could in the mud and water to await orders from Colonel Corbley,
who had not come up. At eleven o'clock that night a drizzling rain set in, and huddled and
crouched together in this vile morass, unprotected by even an overcoat, without rations, tired
and exhausted from the day's march and fighting, the battalion bivouacked. All night the enemy
kept searching the woods and marshes with his artillery, but with little effect. During the
night we learned that the Bolo had a land battery of three-inch guns and five gunboats in the
river at their flank with six and nine-inch guns aboard rafts. This was none too pleasing a
situation for an infantry attack with no artillery preparation, coupled with the miserable
condition of the troops.

As daylight approached the shelling became more and more violent. The Bolo was sending over
everything at his command and it was decided to continue the attack lest we be exterminated
by the enemy artillery. At daybreak Lt. Dressing of "B" Company took out a reconnaissance patrol
to feel out the enemy lines of defense, but owing to the nature of the ground he had little
success. His patrol ran into a Bolo outpost and was scattered by machine gun fire. It was here
that Corporal Shroeder was lost, no trace ever being found of his body or equipment.

About noon two platoons of Company "B" went out to occupy a certain objective. This they found
was a well constructed trench system filled with Bolos, and flanked by machine gun positions.
In the ensuing action we had three men killed and eight men wounded, including Lt. A. M. Smith,
who received a severe wound in the side, but continued handling his platoon effectively, showing
exceptional fortitude. The battle continued during the afternoon all along the line. "C" and
"D" were supporting "B" with as much fire as possible. But troops could not stay where they
were under the enemy fire, and Col. Corbley, who had at last arrived, ordered a frontal attack
to come off after a preparatory barrage by our Russian artillery which had at last toiled up
to a position.

Here fortune favored the Americans. The Russian artillery officer placed a beautiful barrage
upon the village and the enemy gunboats, which continued from 4:45 to 5:00 p.m. At 5:00 o'clock,
the zero hour, the infantry made the attack and in less than an hour's time they had gained
the village.

The Bolsheviks had been preparing to evacuate anyway, as the persistence of our attack and
effectiveness of our rifle fire had nearly broken their morale. Americans with white, strained
faces, in contrast with their muck-daubed uniforms, shook hands prayerfully as they discussed
how a determined defense could have murdered them all in making that frontal attack across
a swamp in face of well-set machine gun positions.

However, the Americans were scarcely better off when they had taken Seltso, for their artillery
now could not get up to them. So the enemy gunboats could shell Seltso at will. Hence it appeared
wise to retire for a few days to Yakovlevskaya. In the early hours of the morning following
the battle the Americans retired from Seltso. They were exceedingly hungry, dog-tired, sore
in spirit, but they had undergone their baptism of fire.

After a few days spent in Yakovlevskoe we set out again, and advanced as far as a village called
Pouchuga. Here we expected another encounter with the Bolo, but he had just left when we arrived.
We were fallen out temporarily on a muddy Russian hillside in the middle of the afternoon,
the rain was falling steadily, we had been marching for a week through the muddiest mud that
ever was, the rations were hard tack and bully, and tobacco had been out for several weeks.
A more miserable looking and feeling outfit can scarce be imagined. A bedraggled looking convoy
of Russian carts under Lt. Warner came up, and he informed us that he could let us have one
package of cigarettes per man. We accepted his offer without any reluctance, and passed them
out. To paraphrase Gunga Din, says Capt. Boyd:

  "They were British and they stunk as anyone who smoked British issue
  cigarettes with forty-two medals can tell you, but of all the smokes
  I've (I should say 'smunk' to continue the paraphrase) I'm gratefulest
  to those from Lt. Warner. You could see man after man light his
  cigarette, take a long draw, and relax in unadulterated enjoyment. Ten
  minutes later they were a different outfit, and nowhere as wet, cold,
  tired or hungry. Lucy Page Gaston and the Anti-Cigarette League please
  note."

After a long day's march we finally arrived in a "suburb" of Pouchuga about 7:00 p.m. with
orders to place our outposts and remain there that night. By nine o'clock this was done, and
the rest of the company was scattered in billets all over the village, being so tired that
they flopped in the first place where there was floor space to spread a blanket. Then came
an order to march to the main village and join Major Corbley. At least a dozen of the men could
not get their shoes on by reason of their feet being swollen, but we finally set out on a pitch
black night through the thick mud. We staggered on, every man falling full length in the mud
innumerable times, and finally reached our destination. Captain Boyd writes:

  "I shall never forget poor Wilson on that march, cheery and
  good-spirited in spite of everything. His loss later at Toulgas was a
  personal one as well as the loss of a good soldier.

  "I also remember Babcock on that march--Babcock, who was one of our
  best machine gunners, never complaining and always dependable. We were
  ploughing along through the mud when from my place at the head of the
  column I heard a splash. I went back to investigate and there was
  Babcock floundering in a ditch with sides too slippery to crawl up.
  The column was marching stolidly past, each man with but one thought,
  to pull his foot out of the mud and put it in a little farther on. We
  finally got Babcock up to terra firma, he explained that it had looked
  like good walking, nice and smooth, and he had gone down to try it. I
  cautioned him that he should never try to take a bath while in
  military formation, and he seemed to think the advice was sound."

Now the battalion was needed over on the Vaga river front, the story of whose advance there
is told in another chapter. By barge the Americans went down the Dvina to its junction with
the Vaga and then proceeded up that river as far as Shenkursk. To the doughboys this upper
Vaga area seemed a veritable land of milk and honey when compared with the miserable upper
Dvina area. Fresh meat and eggs were obtainable. There were even women there who wore hats
and stockings, in place of boots and shawls. We had comfortable billets. But it was too good
to be true. In less than a week the Bolo's renewed activities on the upper Dvina made it necessary
for one company of the first battalion to go again to that area. Colonel Corbley saw "B" Company
depart on the tug "Retvizan" and so far as field activities were concerned it was to be part
of the British forces on the Dvina from October till April rather than part of the first battalion
force. The company commander was to be drafted as "left bank" commander of a mixed force and
hold Toulgas those long, long months. The only help he remembers from Colonel Corbley or Colonel
Stewart in the field operations was a single visit from each, the one to examine his company
fund book, the other to visit the troops on the line in obedience to orders from Washington
and General Ironside. Of this visit Captain Boyd writes:

  "When Col. Stewart made his trip to Toulgas his advent was marked
  principally by his losing one of his mittens, which were the ordinary
  issue variety. He searched everywhere, and half insinuated that Capt.
  Dean, my adjutant, a British officer, had taken it. I could see Dean
  getting hot under the collar. Then he told me that my orderly must
  have taken it. I knew Adamson was more honest than either myself or
  the colonel, and that made me hot. Then he finally found the mitten
  where he had dropped it, on the porch, and everything was serene
  again.

  "Col. Stewart went with me up to one of the forward blockhouses, which
  at that time was manned by the Scots. After the stock questions of
  'where are you from' and 'what did you do in civil life' he launched
  into a dissertation on the disadvantages of serving in an allied
  command. The Scot looked at him in surprise and said, 'Why, sir, we've
  been very glad to serve with the Americans, sir, and especially under
  Lt. Dennis. There's an officer any man would be proud to serve under.'
  That ended the discussion."

After this slight digression from the narrative, we may take up the thread of the story of
this push for Kotlas. Royal Scots and Russians had been left in quiet possession of the upper
Dvina near Seltso after the struggle already related. But hard pressed again, they were waiting
the arrival of the company of Americans, who arrived one morning about 6:00 a. m. a few miles
below our old friend, the village of Yakovlevskoe. We marched to the village, reported to the
British officer in command at Seltso, and received the order, "Come over here as quick as you
possibly can." The situation there was as follows: The Bolos had come back down the river in
force with gunboats and artillery, and were making it exceedingly uncomfortable for the small
British garrisons at Seltso and Borok across the river. We marched around the town, through
swamps at times almost waist deep, and attacked the Bolo trenches from the flank at dusk. We
were successful, driving them back, and capturing a good bit of supplies, including machine
guns and a pom pom. The Bolos lost two officers and twenty-seven men killed, while we had two
men slightly wounded, both of whom were later able to rejoin the company.

"We expected a counter attack from the Bolo, as our force was much smaller than his, and spent
the first part of the night making trenches. An excavation deeper than eighteen inches would
have water in the bottom. We were very cold, as it was October in Russia, and every man wet
to the skin, with no blankets or overcoats. About midnight the British sent up two jugs of
rum, which was immediately issued, contrary to military regulations. It made about two swallows
per man, but was a lifesaver. At least a dozen men told me that they could not sleep before
that because they were so cold, but that this started their circulation enough so they were
able to sleep later.

In the morning we advanced to Lipovit and attacked there, but ran into a jam, had both flanks
turned by a much larger force, and were very fortunate to get out with only one casualty. Corporal
Downs lost his eye, and showed extreme grit in the hard march back through the swamp, never
complaining. I saw, after returning to the States, an interview with Col. Josselyn, at that
time in command of the Dvina force, in which he mentioned Downs, and commended him very highly."

The ensuing week we spent in Seltso, the Bolos occupying trenches around the upper part of
our defenses. They had gunboats and naval guns on rafts, and made it quite uncomfortable for
us with their shelling, although the only American casualties were in the detachment of 310th
Engineers. Our victory was short lived, however, for in a few days our river monitor was forced
to return to Archangel on account of the rapidly receding river, which gave the enemy the opportunity
of moving up their 9.2 inch naval guns, with double the range of our land batteries, making
our further occupation of Seltso impossible.

On the afternoon of October 14, the second and third platoons of Company "B" were occupying
the blockhouses when the Bolos made an attack, which was easily repelled. As we were under
artillery fire with no means of replying, the British commander decided to evacuate that night.
It was impossible to get supplies out owing to the lack of transportation facilities. That
part of Company "B" in the village left at midnight, followed by the force in the blockhouses
at 3:00 a. m. After a very hard march we reached Toulgas and established a position there.

Our position at Toulgas in the beginning was very unfavorable, being a long narrow string of
villages along the Dvina which was bordered with thick underbrush extending a few hundred yards
to the woods. We had a string of machine gun posts scattered through the brush, and when our
line of defense was occupied there was less than two platoons left as a reserve. With us at
this time we had Company "A" of the 2nd Tenth Royal Scots (British) under Captain Shute, and
a section of Canadian artillery.

The Bolos followed us here and after several days shelling, to which because of being outranged
we were unable to reply, they attacked late in the afternoon of October 23rd. Our outposts
held, and we immediately counter attacked. The enemy was repulsed in disorder, losing some
machine guns, and having about one hundred casualties, while we came out Scot free.

It was during the shelling incidental to this that Edvinson, the Viking, did his stunt. He
was in a machine gun emplacement which was hit by a small H. E. shell. The others were considerably
shaken up, and pulled back, reporting Edvinson killed, that he had gone up in the air one way,
and the Lewis gun the other. We established the post a little farther back and went out at
dusk to get Edvinson's body. Much was the surprise of the party when he hailed them with, "Well,
I think she's all right." He had collected himself, retrieved the Lewis gun, taken it apart
and cleaned it and stuck to his post. The shelling and sniping here had been quite heavy. His
action was recognized by the British, who awarded him a Military Medal, just as they did Corporal
Morrow who was instrumental in reoccupying and holding an important post which had been driven
in early in the engagement. Corporal Dreskey and Private Lintula also distinguished themselves
at this point.

Here we may leave "B" Company and the Scots and Russians making a fortress of Toulgas on the
left bank of the Dvina. The Reds were busy defending Plesetskaya from a converging attack and
not till snow clouds gathered in the northern skies were they to gather up a heavy force to
attack Toulgas. We will now turn to the story of the first battalion penetrating with bayonets
far up the Vaga River.

IV

DOUGHBOYS ON GUARD IN ARCHANGEL

Second Battalion Lands To Protect Diplomatic Corps--Colonel Tschaplin's Coup d'Etat Is Undone
By Ambassador Francis--Doughboys Parade And Practice New Weapons--Scowling Solombola Sailors--Description
Of Archangel--American Headquarters.

With the arrival of the American Expeditionary Force, the diplomatic corps of the various Allied
nations which had been compelled to flee north before the Red radicals that had overthrown
the Kerensky provisional government, asked for troops in the city of Archangel itself to stabilize
the situation.

The second battalion of the 339th under command of Major J. Brooks Nichols disembarked at Smolny
Quay at four o'clock of the afternoon of September 4th, the same day the ships dropped anchor
in the harbor. A patrol was at once put out under Lieut. Collins of "H" Company. It was well
that American troops were landed at once as will prove evident from the following story.

The new government of Archangel was headed by the venerable Tchaikowsky, a man who had been
a revolutionary leader of the highest and saneest type for many years. He had lived for a period
of years in America, on a farm in Kansas, and had been a writer of note in Russia and England
for many years. He was a democratic leader and his government was readily accepted by the people.
But as with all newly constructed governments it moved very slowly and with characteristic
Russian deliberation and interminable talk and red tape.

This was too much for the impatient ones among the Russians who had invited the Allied expedition.
One Colonel Tschaplin (later to be dubbed "Charley Chaplin" by American officers who took him
humorously) who had served under the old Czar and had had, according to his yarns--told by
the way in the most engaging English--a very remarkable experience with the Bolsheviks getting
out of Petrograd. He was, it is said, influenced by some of the subordinate English officers
to make a daring try to hasten matters.

On the evening of the 5th of September, while the American soldiers were patrolling the Smolny
area, near Archangel proper, this Col. Tschaplin executed his coup d'etat. He quietly surrounded
the homes of Tchaikowsky and other members of the Archangel State Government and kidnapped
them, hiding them away on an island in the Dvina River.

Great excitement prevailed for several days. The people declared Tschaplin was moving to restore
monarchy under aid of the foreign arms and declared a strike on the street railroads and threatened
to take the pumping station and the electric power station located at Smolny. American troops
manned the cars and by their good nature and patience won the respect and confidence of the
populace, excited as it was. The American ambassador, the Hon. David R. Francis, with characteristic
American directness and fairness called the impetuous Tschaplin before him and gave him so
many hours in which to restore the rightful government to power. And Tchaikowsky came back
into the State House on September 11th much to the rejoicing of the people and to the harmony
of the Allied Expedition. The diplomatic and military authorities of the American part of the
expedition had handled the situation in a way that prevented riot and gained esteem for Americans
in the eyes of all the Russians.

Archangel, Smolny and Bakaritza now were busy scenes of military activity. Down the streets
of Archangel marched part of a battalion of doughboys past the State House and the imposing
foreign Embassy Building. Curious eyes looked upon the O. D. uniform and admired the husky
stalwarts from over the seas. Bright-eyed women crowded to the edge of the boardwalks amongst
the long-booted and heavily bewhiskered men. Well-dressed men with shaven faces and marks of
culture studied the Americans speculatively. Russian children began making acquaintance and
offering their flattering Americanski Dobra.

At Solombola, Smolny, Bakaritza, sounds of firing were heard daily, but the populace were quieted
when told that it was not riot or Bolo attack but the Americans practising up with their ordnance.
In fact the Americans, hearing of actions at the fronts, were desperately striving to learn
how to use the Lewis guns and the Vickers machine guns. At Camp Custer they had perfected themselves
in handling the Colt and the Brownings but in England had been obliged to relinquish them with
the dubious prospect of re-equipping with the Russian automatic rifles and machine gun equipment
at Archangel. Now they were feverishly at work on the new guns for reports were coming back
from the front that the enemy was well equipped with such weapons and held the Americans at
great disadvantage.

Here let it be said that the American doughboy in the North Russian campaign mastered every
kind of weapon that was placed in his hands or came by fortune of war to his hand. He learned
to use the Lewis gun and the Vickers machine gun of the British and Russian armies, also the
one-pounder, or pom pom. He became proficient in the use of the French Chauchat automatic rifle
and the French machine gun, and their rifle grenade guns. He learned to use the Stokes mortars
with deadly effect on many a hard-fought line. And during the winter two platoons of "Hq."
Company prided themselves on the mastery of a battery of Russian artillery patterned after
the famous, in fact, the same famous French 75 gun.

While the 2nd Battalion under Major Nichols was establishing itself in quarters at Smolny,
where was a great compound of freshly unloaded supplies of food, herring and whiskey (do not
forget the hard stuff) and, becoming responsible for the safety of the pumping station and
the electric power station and the ships in the harbor, Captain Taylor established the big
Headquarters Company at Olga barracks at the other end of the city on September seventh where
he could train his men for the handling of new weapons and could co-operate with Captain Kenyon's
machine gun men. They on the same day took up quarters in Solombola Barracks and were charged
with the duty of not only learning how to use the new machine guns but to keep guard over the
quays and prevent rioting by the turbulent Russian sailors. Their undying enmity had been earned
by the well-meant but untactful, yes, to the sailors apparently treacherous, conduct of General
Poole toward them on the Russian ships in the Murmansk when he got them off on a pretext and
then seized the ships to prevent their falling into the hands of the Red Guards. And while
the doughboys on the railroad and Kodish fronts in the fall were occasionally to run up against
the hard-fighting Russian sailors who had fled south to Petrograd and volunteered their services
to Trotsky to go north and fight the Allied expeditionary forces, these doughboys doing guard
duty in Archangel over the remnants of stores and supplies which the Bolo had not already stolen
or sunk in the Dvina River, were constantly menaced by these surly, scowling sailors at Solombola
and in Archangel.

Really it is no wonder that the several Allied troop barracks were always guarded by machine
guns and automatics. Rumor at the base always magnified the action at the front and always
fancied riot and uprising in every group of gesticulating Russkis seen at a dusky corner of
the city.

The Supply Company of the regiment became the supply unit for all the American forces under
Captain Wade and was quartered at Bakaritza, being protected by various units of Allied forces.
"Finish" the package of Russki horse skin and bones which the boys "skookled" from the natives,
that is, bought from the natives, became the most familiar sight on the quays, drawing the
strange-looking but cleverly constructed drosky, or cart, bucking into his collar under the
yoke and pulling with all his sturdy will, not minding the American "whoa" but obedient enough
when the doughboy learned to sputter the Russki "br-r-r br-r-r."

Archangel is situated on one of the arms of the Dvina River which deltas into the White Sea.
Out of the enormous interior of North Russia, gathering up the melted snows of a million square
miles of seven-foot snow and the steady June rains and the weeks of fall rains, the great Mississippi
of North Russia moves down to the sea, sweeping with deep wide current great volumes of reddish
sediment and secretions which give it the name Dvina. And the arm of the Arctic Ocean into
which it carries its loads of silt and leachings, and upon which it floats the fishermen's
bottoms or the merchantmen's steamers, is called the White Sea. Rightly named is that sea,
the Michigan or Wisconsin soldier will tell you, for it is white more than half the year with
ice and snow, the sporting ground for polar bears.

While we were fighting the Bolsheviki in Archangel, the National Geographic Society, in a bulletin,
published to our people certain facts about the country. It is so good that extracts are in
this chapter included:

  "The city of Archangel, Russia, where Allied and American troops have
  their headquarters in the fight with the Bolshevik forces, was the
  capital of the Archangel Province, or government, under the czar's
  regime--a vast, barren and sparsely populated region, cut through by
  the Arctic Circle.

  "West and east, the distance across the Archangel district is about
  that from London to Rome, from New York to St. Louis, or from Boston
  to Charleston, S. C. Its area, exclusive of interior waters, is
  greater than that of France, Italy, Belgium and Holland combined. Yet
  there are not many more people in these great stretches than are to be
  found in Detroit, Mich., or San Francisco or Washington.

  "Arable land in all this territory is less than 1,200 square miles,
  and three-fourths of that is given over to pasturage. The richer
  grazing land supports Holmagor cattle, a breed said to date back to
  the time of Peter the Great, who crossed native herds with cattle
  imported from Holland.

  "About fifteen miles from the mouth of the Dvina River, which affords
  an outlet to the White Sea, lies the city of Archangel. Norsemen came
  to that port in the tenth century for trading. One expedition was
  described by Alfred the Great. But first contact with the outside
  world was established in the sixteenth century when Sir Richard
  Chancellor, an English sailor, stopped at the bleak haven while
  attempting a northeast passage to India. Ivan the Terrible summoned
  him to Moscow and made his visit the occasion for furthering
  commercial relations with England. Thirty years after the Englishman's
  visit a town was established and for the next hundred years it was the
  Muscovite kingdom's only seaport, chief doorway for trade with England
  and Holland.

  "When Peter the Great established St. Petersburg as his new capital
  much trade was diverted to the Baltic, but Archangel was compensated
  by designation as the capital of the Archangel government.

  "Boris Godunov threw open to all nations, and in the seventeenth
  century Tartar prisoners were set to work building a large bazaar and
  trading hall. Despite its isolation the city thus became a
  cosmopolitan center and up to the time of the world war Norwegian,
  German, British, Swedish and Danish cargo vessels came in large
  numbers.

  "Every June thousand of pilgrims would pass through Archangel on their
  way to the famous far north shrine, Solovetsky Monastery, situated on
  an island a little more than half a day's boat journey from Archangel.

  "The city acquired its name from the Convent of Archangel Michael. In
  the Troitski Cathedral, with its five domes, is a wooden cross,
  fourteen feet high, carved by the versatile Peter the Great, who
  learned the use of mallet and chisel while working as a shipwright in
  Holland after he ascended the throne."

To the sailor looking from the deck of his vessel or to the soldier approaching from Bakaritza
on tug or ferry, the city of Archangel affords an interesting view. Hulks of boats and masts
and cordage and docks and warehouses in the front, with muddy streets. Behind, many buildings,
grey-weathered ones and white-painted ones topped with many chimneys, and towering here and
there a smoke stack or graceful spire or dome with minarets. Between are seen spreading tree
tops, too. All these in strange confused order fill all the horizon there with the exception
of one space, through which in June can be seen the 11:30 p. m. setting sun. And in this open
space on clear evenings, which by the way, in June-July never get even dusky, at various hours
can be seen a wondrous mirage of waters and shores that lie on the other side of the city below
the direct line of sight.

Prominently rises the impressive magnitudinous structure of the reverenced cathedral there,
its dome of the hue of heaven's blue and set with stars of solid gold. And when all else in
the landscape is bathed in morning purple or evening gloaming-grey, the levelled rays of the
coming or departing sun with a brilliantly striking effect glisten these white and gold structures.
Miles and miles away they catch the eye of the sailor or the soldier.

Built on a low promontory jutting into the Dvina River, the city appears to be mostly water-front.
In fact, it is only a few blocks wide, but it is crescent shaped with one horn in Smolny--a
southern suburb having dock and warehouse areas--and the other in Solombola on the north, a
city half as large as Archangel and possessing saw-mills, shipyards, hospitals, seminary and
a hard reputation, Archangel is convex westward, so that one must go out for some distance
to view the whole expanse of the city from that direction. A mass of trees, a few houses, some
large buildings and churches mainly near the river, with a foreground of shipping, is the summer
view. The winter view is better, the bare trees and the smaller amount of shipping at the docks
permitting a better view of the general layout of the city, the buildings and the type of houses
used by the population as homes.

Along the main street, Troitsky Prospect, runs a two-track trolley line connecting the north
and south suburbs mentioned in the preceding paragraph. The cars are light and run very smoothly.
They are operated chiefly by women. Between the main street and the river-front near the center
of the city is the market-place. This covers several blocks and is full of dingy stalls and
alleys occupied by almost hopeless traders and stocks in trade. As new wooden ware, home-made
trinkets, second-hand clothing and fresh fish can be obtained there the year around, and in
summer the offerings of vegetables are plentiful and tempting, the market-place never lacks
shoppers who carry their paper money down in the same basket they use to carry back their purchases.

Public buildings are of brick or stone and are colored white, pink, grey or bright red to give
a light or warm effect. Down-town stores are built some of brick and some of logs. Homes are
square in type, with few exceptions, built of logs, usually of very plain architecture, set
directly against the sidewalks, the yards and gardens being at the side or rear. For privacy,
each man's holdings are surrounded by a seven-foot fence. Thus the streets present long vistas
of wooden ware, partly house and partly fence, with sometimes over-hanging trees, and with
an inevitable set of doorsteps projecting from each house over part of the sidewalk. This set
of steps is seldom used, for the real entrance to the home is at the side of the house reached
through a gateway in the fence.

The houses in Archangel are usually of two stories, with double windows packed with cotton
or flax to resist the cold. When painted at all, the houses have been afflicted by their owners
with one or more coats of yellowish-brown stuff familiar to every American farmer who has ever
"primed" a big barn. A few houses have been clap-boarded on the outside and some of these have
been painted white.

The rest of the street view is snow, or, lacking that, a cobbled pavement very rough and uneven,
and lined on each side--sometimes on one side only, or in the centre--with a narrow sidewalk
of heavy planks laid lengthwise over the otherwise open public sewer, a ditch about three feet
wide and from three to six feet deep. Woe be to him who goes through rotten plank! It has been
done.

So much for general scenic effects at Archangel. The Technical Institute, used as Headquarters
by the American Forces, is worth a glance. It is a four-story solid-looking building about
one hundred and fifty feet square and eighty feet high, with a small court in the centre. The
outside walls of brick and stone are nearly four feet thick, and their external surface is
covered by pink-tinted plaster which catches the thin light of the low-lying winter sun and
causes the building to seem to glow. On the front of the building there are huge pillars rising
from the second story balcony to the great Grecian gable facing the river.

Inside, this great building is simple and severe, but rather pleasing. Windows open into the
court from a corridor running around the building on each floor, and on the other side of the
corridor are the doors of the rooms once used as recitation and lecture halls, laboratories,
manual training shops, offices, etc. Outside, it was one of the city's imposing buildings;
inside, it was well-appointed. To the people of the city it was a building of great importance.
It was worthy to offer the Commander of the American troops.

Here Colonel Stewart set up his Headquarters. The British Commanding General had his headquarters,
the G. H. Q., N. R. E. F., in another school building in the centre of the city, within close
reach of the Archangel State Capitol Building. Colonel Stewart's headquarters were conveniently
near the two buildings which afterward were occupied and fitted up for a receiving hospital
and for a convalescent hospital respectively, as related elsewhere, and not far either from
the protection of the regimental Headquarters Company quartered in Olga Barracks.

Here the Commanding Officer of this expeditionary force of Americans off up here near the North
Pole on the strangest fighting mission ever undertaken by an American force, tried vainly to
keep track of his widely dispersed forces. Up the railroad he had seen his third battalion,
under command of Major C. G. Young, go with General Finlayson whom General Poole had ordered
to take Vologda, four hundred miles to the south. His first battalion, under Lieutenant Colonel
Corbley he had seen hurried off up the Dvina River under another British Brigadier-General
to take Kotlas hundreds of miles up the river. His second battalion under Major J. Brooks Nichols
was on duty in Archangel and the nearby suburbs. These forces, and his 310th Engineer Battalion
and his Ambulance and Hospital Units were shifted about by the British Generals and Colonels
and Majors often without any information whatever to Colonel Stewart, the American commanding
officer. He lost touch with his battalion and company commanders.

He had a discouraging time even in getting his few general orders distributed to the American
troops. No wonder that often an American officer or soldier reporting in from a front by order
or permission of a British field officer, did not feel that American Headquarters was his real
headquarters and in pure ignorance was guilty of omitting some duty or of failure to comply
with some Archangel restriction that had been ordered by American Headquarters. As to general
orders from American Headquarters dealing with the action of troops in the field, those were
so few and of so little impressiveness that they have been forgotten. We must say candidly
that the doughboy came to look upon American Headquarters in Archangel as of very trifling
importance in the strange game he was up against. He knew that the strategy was all planned
at British G. H. Q., that the battle orders were written in the British field officer's headquarters,
that the transportation and supplies of food were under control of the British that altogether
too much of the hospital service was under control of the British. Somehow the doughboy felt
that the very limited and much complained about service of his own American Supply Unit, that
lived for the most part on the fat of the land in Bakaritza, should have been corrected by
his commanding officer who sat in American Headquarters. And they felt, whether correctly or
not, that the court-martial sentences of Major C. G. Young, who acted as summary court officer
at Smolny after he was relieved of his command in the field, were unnecessarily harsh. And
they blamed their commanding officer, Colonel Stewart, for not taking note of that fact when
he reviewed and approved them. The writers of this history of the expedition think the doughboy
had much to justify his feeling.

V

WHY AMERICAN TROOPS WERE SENT TO RUSSIA

This Was A Much Mooted Question Among Soldiers--Partisan Politicians Attacked With Vitriol--Partisan
Explanations Did Not Explain--Red Propaganda Helped Confuse The Case--Russians Of Archangel,
Too, Were Concerned--We Who Were There Think Of Those Pitiable Folk And Their Hopeless Military
And Political Situation That Tried Our Patience And That Of The Directors Of The Expedition
Who Undoubtedly Knew No Better Than We Did.

To many people in America and England and France the North Russian Expedition appears to have
been an unwarrantable invasion of the land of an ally, an ally whose land was torn by internal
upheavals. It has been charged that commercial cupidity conceived the campaign. Men declare
that certain members of the cabinet of Lloyd George and of President Wilson were desirous of
protecting their industrial holdings in North Russia.

The editors of this work can not prove or disprove these allegations nor prove or disprove
the replies made to the allegations. We have not the time or means to do so even if our interests,
political or otherwise, should prompt us to try it. From discussion of the partisan attacks
on and defense of the administration's course of action toward Russia in 1918-19, both of which
are erratic and acrimonious, we plead to be excused.

We shall tell the story of the genesis of the expedition as well as we can. We do not profess
to know all about it. It will be some time before the calm historian can possess himself of
all the facts. Till such time we hope that this brief statement will stand. We offer it hesitatingly
with keen consciousness of the danger that it will probably suit neither of the two parties
in controversy over the sending of troops to North Russia.

But we offer this straightforward story confidently to our late comrades. They have entrusted
us with the duty of writing the history of what they did in North Russia as their bit in the
Great World War. And we know our comrades, at least, and we hope the general reader, too, will
credit us with writing in sincerity and good faith.

Early in 1918, for the Allied forces, it looked dark. The Germans were able to neglect the
crumbled-in Eastern Front and concentrate a tornado drive on the Western Front. It was at last
realized that the controlling Bolshevik faction in Russia was bent on preventing the resumption
of the war on the Eastern Front and possibly might play its feeble remnants of military forces
on the side of the Germans. The Allied Supreme Council at Versailles decided that the other
allies must go to the aid of their old ally Russia who had done such great service in the earlier
years of the war. On the Russian war front Germany must be made again to feel pressure of arms.
Organization of that front would have to be made by efforts of the Allied Supreme War Council.

They had some forces to build on. Several thousand Czecho-Slovak troops formerly on the Eastern
Front had been held together after the dissolution of the last Russian offensive in 1917. Their
commander had led them into Siberia. Some at that time even went as far as Vladivostok. These
troops had desired to go back to their own country or to France and take part in the final
campaign against the Germans. There was no transportation by way of the United States. Negotiations
with the Bolshevist rulers of Russia, the story runs, brought promises of safe passage westward
across central Russia and then northward to Archangel, thence by ship to France.

This situation in mind the Allied Supreme War Council urged a plan whereby an Allied expedition
of respectable size would be sent to Archangel with many extra officers for staff and instruction
work, to meet the Czechs and reorganize and re-equip them, rally about them a large Northern
Russian Army, and proceed rapidly southward to reorganize the Eastern Front and thus draw off
German troops from the hard pressed Western Front. This plan was presented to the Allied Supreme
War Council by a British officer and politician fresh from Moscow and Petrograd and Archangel,
enthusiastic in his belief in the project.

The expedition was to be large enough to proceed southward without the Czechs, sending them
back to the West by the returning ships if their morale should prove to be too low for the
stern task to be essayed on the restored Eastern Front. General Poole, the aforementioned British
officer in command, seems to have been very sure that the Bolsheviks who had so blandly agreed
to the passage of the Czechs through the country would not object to the passage of the expedition
southward from Archangel, via Vologda, Petrograd and Riga to fight the Germans with whom they,
the Bolsheviki, had compacted the infamous Brest-Litovsk treaty.

All this while, remember, the old allies of Russia had preserved a studied neutrality toward
the factional fight in Russia. They steadily refused to recognize the Bolshevik government
of Lenine and Trotsky.

While this plan was still in the whispering stages, the activities of the Germans in Finland
where they menaced Petrograd and where their extension of three divisions to the northward
and eastward seemed to forecast the establishment of submarine bases on the Murmansk and perhaps
even at Archangel where lay enormous stores of munitions destined earlier in the war to be
used by the Russians and Rumanians against the Huns. At any rate, the port of Archangel would
be one other inlet for food supplies to reach the tightly blockaded Germans.

Since the autumn of 1914 military supplies of all kinds, chiefly made in America and England,
had been sent to Archangel for the use of the Russian armies. At the time of the revolution
against the old Czar Nicholas, in 1917, there were immense stores in the warehouses of the
Archangel district and the Archangel-Vologda Railway had been widened to standard gauge and
many big American freight cars supplied to carry those supplies southward. And these stores
had been greatly augmented during the Kerensky regime, the enthusiastic time immediately subsequent
to the fall of the Czar, when anti-German Russians were exulting "Now the arch traitor is gone,
we can really equip our armies," and when the Allies believed that after a few months of confusion
the revolutionary government would become a more trustworthy ally than the old imperial government
had been.

U.S. Official Photo Olga Barracks

U.S. Official Photo Street Car Strike in Archangel

U.S. Official Photo American Hospitals and Headquarters

U.S. Official Photo "Supply" C. canteen "Accommodates" Boys

U.S. Official Photo Red Cross Ambulances, Archangel

U.S. Official Photo "Cootie Mill" Operating at Smolny Annex of Convalescent Hospital

Wisckot Single Flat Strip of Iron on Plow point

Wagner Thankful for What at Home We Feed Pigs

Now, although Archangel was the chief port of entry for military supplies to the new Russian
government, the geographical situation of the northern province, or rather state, of Archangel
had left it rather high and dry in the hands of a local government, which, so distantly affiliated
with Moscow and Petrograd, did not reflect fully either the strength or weaknesses of the several
regimes which succeeded one another at the capital between the removal of the Czar and the
machine gun assumption of control by the bloody pair of zealots and tricksters, Lenine and
Trotzky. Consequently, when Kerensky disappeared the government at Archangel did not greatly
change in character.

To be sure, it had no army or military force of its own. The central government sent north
certain armed Red Guards, and agents of government called "commissars," who were to organize
and control additions to the Red Guards and to supervise also the civil government of Archangel
state, as much as possible. These people of the northern state were indeed jealous of their
rights of local government. And the work of the Red agents in levying on the property and the
man-power of the North was passively resisted by these intelligent North Russians.

All this was of great interest to the Allied Supreme War Council because of the danger that
the war supplies would be seized by the rapidly emboldened Bolshevik government and be delivered
into the hands of the Germans for use against the Allies. For since the Brest-Litovsk treaty
it had appeared from many things that the crafty hand of Germany was inside the Russian Bolshevik
glove.

Moreover, there were in North Russia, as in every other part, many Russians who could not resign
themselves to Bolshevik control, even of the milder sort, nor to any German influence. Those
in the Archangel district banded themselves together secretly and sent repeated calls to the
Allies for help in ridding their territory of the Bolshevik Red Guards and German agents, using
as chief arguments the factors above mentioned. While the anti-Bolshevists were unwilling to
unmask in their own state, for obvious reason, their call for help was made clear to the outside
world and furnished the Allied Supreme War Council just the pretext for the expedition which
it was planning for a purely military purpose, namely, to reconstruct the old Eastern fighting
front.

In fact, when a survey of the military resources of the European Allies had disclosed their
utter lack of men for such an expedition and it was found that the only hope lay in drawing
the bulk of the needed troops from the United States forces, and when the statement of the
cases in the usual polite arguments brought from President Wilson a positive refusal to allow
American troops to go into Russia, it was only by the emphasis, it is said, of the pathetic
appeal of the North Russian anti-Bolshevists, coupled with the stirring appeals of such famous
characters as the one-time leader of the Russian Women's Battalion of Death and the direct
request of General Foch himself for the use of the American troops there in Russia as a military
necessity to win the war, that the will of President Wilson was moved and he dubiously consented
to the use of American troops in the expedition.

Even this concession of President Wilson was limited to the one regiment of infantry with the
needed accompaniments of engineer and medical troops. The bitter irony of this limitation is
apparent in the fact that while it allowed the Supreme War Council to carry out its scheme
of an Allied Expedition with the publicly announced purposes before outlined, committing America
and the other Allies to the guarding of supplies at Murmansk and Archangel and frustrating
the plans of Germany in North Russia, it did not permit the Allied War Council sufficient forces
to carry out its ultimate and of course secret purpose of reorganizing the Eastern Front, which
naturally was not to be advertised in advance either to Russians or to anyone. The vital aim
was thus thwarted and the expedition destined to weakness and to future political and diplomatic
troubles both in North Russia and in Europe and America.

During the months spent in winning the participation of the United States in an Allied Expedition
to North Russia, England took some preliminary steps which safeguarded the Murmansk Railway
as far south toward Petrograd as Kandalaksha.

Royal Engineers and Marines, together with a few officers and men from French and American
Military Missions, who had worked north with the diplomatic corps, were thus for a dangerously
long period the sole bulwark of the Allies against complete pro-German domination of the north
of Russia. Some interesting stories could be told of the clever secret work of the American
officers in ferreting out the evidences in black and white, of the co-operation of the German
War Office with Lenine and Trotsky. And stories of daring and pluck that saved men's lives
and kept the North Russians from a despairing surrender to the Bolsheviki.

Meanwhile England was taking measures herself to support these men so as to form a nucleus
for the larger expedition when it should be inaugurated by the Allied Supreme War Council.
But the total number of British officers and men who could be spared for the purpose, in view
of the critical situation on the Western Front, was less than 1,200. And these had to be divided
between the widely separated areas of Murmansk and Archangel. And the officers and men sent
were nearly all, to a man, those who had already suffered wounds or physical exhaustion on
the Western Front. This was late in June. About this time the plan of the Allied Supreme War
Council as already stated was, under strict limitations, acceded to by President Wilson, and
the doughboys of the 339th Infantry in July found themselves in England hearing about Archangel
and disgustedly exchanging their Enfields for the Russian rifles.

For various reasons the command of the expedition was assigned by General Foch to General Poole,
the British officer who had been so enthusiastic about rolling up a big volunteer army of North
Russians to go south to Petrograd and wipe out the Red dictatorate and re-establish the old
hard-fighting Russian Front on the East. Naturally, American soldiers who fought that desperate
campaign in North Russia now feel free to criticize the judgment of General Foch in putting
General Poole in command. It appears from the experiences of the soldiers up there that for
military, for diplomatic and for political reasons it would have been better to put an American
general in command of the expedition. And while we are at it we might as well have our little
say about President Wilson. We think he erred badly in judgment. He either should have sent
a large force of Americans into North Russia--as we did into Cuba--a force capable of doing
up the job quickly and thoroughly, or sent none at all. He should have known that the American
doughboy fights well for a cause, but that a British general would have a hard time convincing
the Americans of the justice of a mixed cause. This is confession of a somewhat blind prejudice
which the American citizen has against the aggressive action of British arms wherever on the
globe they may be seen in action, no matter how justifiable the ultimate turn of events may
prove the British military action to have been. We say that this prejudice should have been
taken into account when the American doughboy was sent to Russia to fight under British command.
It might not be out of order to point out that the North Russian shared with his American allies
in that campaign the same prejudice, unreasonable at times without doubt, but none the less
painful prejudice against the British command of the expedition. And all this in spite of the
fact that most of the British officers were personally above reproach, and General Ironside,
who soon succeeded the failing Poole, was every inch of his six foot-four a man and a soldier,
par excellence.

The French were able to send only part of a regiment, one battalion of Colonial troops and
a machine gun company, who reached the Murmansk late in July about the time the Americans were
sailing from England. They were soon sent on to Archangel, where political things were now
come to a head.

The Serbian battalion which had left Odessa at the time of the summer collapse of the Russian
armies in 1917 had gradually worked its way northward from Petrograd on the Petrograd-Kola
Railroad with the intention of shipping for the Western fighting front by way of England. They
had been of potential aid to the Allied military missions during the summer and now were permitted
by the Serbian government to be joined to the Allied expedition. They were accordingly put
into position along the Kola Railroad. These troops, of course, as well as thousands of British
troops which were stationed in the Murmansk and by the British War Office were numbered in
the North Russian Expeditionary forces, were of no account whatever in the military activities
of that long fall and winter and spring campaign in the far away Archangel area where the American
doughboys for months, supported here and there by a few British and French and Russians, stood
at bay before the swarming Bolos and battled for their lives in snow and ice.

The battalion of Italian troops with its company of skii troops which sailed from England with
the American convoy also went to the Murmansk and all the American doughboy saw of Italians
in the fighting area of Archangel, North Russia, was the little handful of well dressed Italian
officers and batmen in the city of Archangel. Of course, we had plenty of representation of
Italian fighting blood right in our own ranks. They were in the O. D. uniform and were American
citizens. And of course the same thing could be said of many another nationality that was represented
in the ranks of American doughboys and whose bravery in battle and fortitude in hardships of
cold and hunger gave evidence that no one nationality has a corner on courage and "guts" and
manhood. To call the roll of one of those heroic fighting companies of doughboys or engineers
or medical or hospital companies in the olive drab would evidence by the names of the men and
officers that the best bloods of Europe and of Asia were all pulsing in the American ranks.

The presence of British, French and American war vessels and the first small bodies of troops
encouraged the Murmansk Russian authorities to declare their independence of the Red Moscow
crowd and to throw in their lot with the Allies in the work of combatting the agents of the
German War Office in the North. In return the Allies were to furnish money, food and supplies.
Early in July written agreement to this effect had been signed by the Murmansk Russian authorities
and all the Allies represented, including the United States. It will be recalled that Ambassador
Francis had been obliged to leave Petrograd by the Bolshevik rulers, and he had gone north
into Murmansk.

The result of this agreement with the Murmansk and the arrival of further troops at the Murmansk
coast, together with the promise of more to follow immediately, was to influence the Russian
local government of the state of Archangel to break with the hated Reds. And so, on August
1st, a quiet coup d'etat was effected. The anti-Bolshevists came out into the open. The Provisional
North Russian Government was organized. The people were promised an election and they accepted
the situation agreeably for they had detested the Red government. Two cargoes of food had no
little also to do with the heartiness of their acceptance of the Allied military forces and
the overturn of the Bolshevik government.

Within forty-eight hours came the military forces already mentioned, the advance forces of
the British that preceded the Allied expedition, consisting of a huge British staff, a few
British soldiers, a few French and a detachment of fifty American sailors from the "Olympia."
In a few days the battalion of French colonials sailed in from Murmansk.

The coming of the troops prevented the counter coup of the Reds. They could only make feeble
resistance. The passage up the delta of the Dvina River and the actual landing while exciting
to the jackies met with little opposition. Truth to tell, the wily Bolsheviks had for many
weeks seen the trend of affairs, and, expecting a very much larger expedition, had sent or
prepared for hasty sending south by rail toward Vologda or by river to Kotlas of all the military
supplies and munitions and movable equipment as well as large stores of loot and plunder from
the city of Archangel and suburbs. Count von Mirbach, the German ambassador at Moscow, threatened
Lenine and Trotsky that the German army then glowering in Finland, across the way, would march
on Petrograd unless the military stores were brought out of Archangel.

The rearguard of the Bolshevik armed forces was disappearing over the horizon when the American
jackies seized engines and cars at Archangel Preestin and Bakaritza, which had been saved by
the hindering activities of anti-Bolshevik trainmen, and dashed south in pursuit. There is
a heroic little tale of an American Naval Reserve lieutenant who with a few sailors took a
lame locomotive and two cars with a few rifles and two machine guns, mounted on a flat car,
and hotly gave chase to the retreating Red Guards, routing them in their stand at Issaka Gorka
where they were trying to destroy or run off locomotives and cars, and then keeping their rear
train moving southward at such a rate that the Reds never had time to blow the rails or burn
a bridge till he had chased them seventy-five miles. There a hot box on his improvised armored
train stopped his pursuit. He tore loose his machine guns and on foot reached the bridge in
time to see the Reds burn it and exchange fire with them, receiving at the end a wound in the
leg for his great gallantry.

The Red Guards were able to throw up defenses and to bring up supporting troops. A few days
later the French battalion fought a spirited, but indecisive, engagement with the Reds. It
was seen that he intended to fight the Allies. He retreated southward a few miles at a time,
and during the latter part of August succeeded in severely punishing a force of British and
French and American sailors, who had sought to attack the Reds in flank. And it was this episode
in the early fighting that caused the frantic radiogram to reach us on the Arctic Ocean urging
the American ships to speed on to Archangel to save the handful of Allied men threatened with
annihilation on the railroad and up the Dvina River. And we were to go into it wholehearted
to save them, and later find ourselves split up into many detachments and cornered up in many
another just such perilous position but with no forces coming to support us.

The inability of the Allied Supreme War Council to furnish sufficient troops for the North
Russian expedition, and the delay of the United States to furnish the part of troops asked
of her, very nearly condemned the undertaking to failure before it was fairly under way. However,
as the ultimate success of the expedition depended in any event on the success of the Allied
operations in far off Siberia in getting the Czecho-Slovak veterans and Siberian Russian allies
through to Kotlas, toward which they were apparently fighting their way under their gallant
leader and with the aid of Admiral Kolchak, and because there was a strong hope that General
Poole's prediction of a hearty rallying of North Russians to the standards of the Allies to
fight the Germans and Bolsheviki at one and the same time, the decision of the Supreme War
Council was, in spite of President Wilson's opposition to the plan, to continue the expedition
and strengthen it as fast as possible. To the American soldier at this distance it looks as
though the French and British, perhaps in all good faith, planned to muddle along till the
American authorities could be shown the fitness or the necessity of supporting the expedition
with proper forces. But this was playing with a handful of Americans and other Allied troops
a great game of hazard. Only those who went through it can appreciate the peril and the hazard.

To the credit of the American doughboys and Tommies and Poilus and others who went into North
Russia in the fall of 1918 let it be said that they smashed in with vim and gallant action,
thinking that they were going to do a small bit away up there in the north to frustrate the
military and political plans of the Germans. And although they were not all interested in the
Russian civil war at the beginning, they did learn that the North Russian people's ideal of
government was the representative government of the Americans, while the Red Guards whom they
were fighting stood for a government which on paper at its own face value represented only
one class and offered hatred to all other classes. When it tried to put into effect its so-called
constitution that had been dreamed out of a nightmare of oppression and hate, it failed completely.
Machine gun beginning begot cruel offspring of provisional courts of justice and sword-revised
soviets of the people so that packed soviets and Lenine-picked delegates and Trotsky-ridden
ministers made the actual soviet government as much resemble the ideal soviet government as
a wild-cat mining stock board of directors resembles a municipal board of public works. And
the world knows now, if it did not in 1918-19, that the Russian Socialist Federated Soviet
Republic was, and is, a highly centralized tyranny, frankly called by its own leaders "The
Dictatorship of the Proletariat." The Russian people prayed for "a fish and received a serpent."

VI

ON THE FAMOUS KODISH FRONT IN THE FALL

"K" Company Hurries To Save Force "B"--Importance Of Kodish Front--Hazelden's Force Destroyed--First
Fight At Seletskoe--Both Sides Burn Bridges--Desperate Fighting At Emtsa River--Capture Of
Kodish--Digging In--We Lose Village After Days Of Hard Fighting--Trenches And Blockhouses.

Nowhere did the Yanks in North Russia find the fighting fiercer than did those who were battling
their way toward Plesetskaya on the famous Kodish front. Woven into their story is that of
the most picturesque American fighter and doughtiest soldier of the many dauntless officers
and men who struggled and bled in that strange campaign. This man was Captain Michael Donoghue,
commanding officer of "K" Company, 339th Infantry. He afterward was promoted in the field to
rank of major and his old outfit of Detroit boys proudly remember that "K" stands for Kodish
where they and their commander earned the plaudits of the regiment.

It will be remembered that the third battalion was hurried from troopship to troop train and
steamed south as fast as the rickety Russki locomotives of the 1880 type could wobble, and
it will be remembered that Captain Donoghue, the senior captain of that battalion, was chosen
to go with half of his "K" Company to the relief of a mixed force of American sailors and British
Royal Scots and French infantry who had been surrounded, it was rumored, and were in imminent
danger of annihilation.

With his little force of one hundred and twenty men, including a medical officer with eight
enlisted medical men, transporting his rations and extra munitions on the dumpy little Russki
droskie, the American officer led out of Obozerskaya at three o'clock in the afternoon, bivouacked
for the night somewhere on the trail in a cold drizzle, and reached Volshenitsa, the juncture
of the trails from Seletskoe and Emtsa, about noon of the 8th of September.

Four versts beyond Volshenitsa the column passed the scene of the battle between the Bolos
and "B" Force. Gear and carts scattered around and two or three fresh graves told that this
was serious business. A diary of an American sailor and the memoranda of a British officer,
broken off suddenly on the 30th of August, that were picked up told of the adventures of the
handful of men we were going to hunt. More explanations of the genesis of this Kodish front
is now in order.

Consideration of the map will show that Kodish was of great strategic Importance. Truth to
tell it was of more importance than our High Command at first estimated. The Bolshevik strategists
were always aware of its value and never permitted themselves to be neglectful of it. Trotsky
knew that the strategy and tactics of the winter campaign would make good use of the Kodish
road. Indeed it was seen in the fall by General Poole that a Red column from Plesetskaya up
the Kodish road was a wedge between the railroad forces and the river forces, always imperiling
the Vaga and Dvina forces with being cut off if the Reds came strong enough.

The first movement on Kodish by the Allied troops had been made by "B" force under the command
of Col. Hazelden of the British army. With about two hundred men composed of French soldiers,
a few English soldiers, American sailors from the Olympic, and some local Russian volunteers,
he had pushed up the Dvina and Vaga to Seletskoe and operating from there had sent a party
of French even as far as Emtsa River, a few miles north of Kodish.

But before he could attack Kodish, Hazelden was ordered to strike across the forest area and
attack the Reds in the rear near Obozerskaya where the Bolshevik rear guard with its excellent
artillery strategist was stubbornly holding the Allied Force "A." Passing through Seletskoe
he left the Russian volunteers to oppose the Reds in Kodish, and guard his rear. But these
uncertain troops fled upon approach of the Bolos and about the first of September Col. Hazelden
instead of being in a position to demoralize the Reds on the railroad by a swift blow from
behind, found himself in desperate defense, both front and rear, and beleagured in the woods
and swamps some twenty-seven versts east of Obozerskaya.

He managed to get a message through to Sisskoe just before the Reds closed in on him from behind.
About a hundred English marines, a section of machine gunners, a platoon of Royal Scots, and
some Russian artillery, all enroute to Archangel from their chase of the Reds up the Dvina,
were ordered off their barges at Sisskoe, were christened "D" Force, and, under the command
of Captain Scott, British officer, were given the task of preventing the Reds from Kodish from
cutting off the river communications.

This force was also to help Col. Hazelden out. But as we have seen, his force had been destroyed,
and Americans hurriedly sent out. At Volshenitsa Captain Donoghue received a message by aeroplane
from Col. Guard at Obozerskaya that "D" Force was held up at Tiogra by the Reds. After patrolling
the forest five days and finding the trail to Emtsa impassable during the wet season, "K" Company
received both the welcome reinforcements of Lieut. Gardner and the twenty men who had been
left at Lewis gun School at Bakaritza, and orders to proceed on to Seletskoe.

The Red Guards hearing of the American successes on the railway and hearing of the approach
of this force from the railroad in their rear went back to Kodish, and on the morning of September
16th "K" Company became a full-fledged member of "D" Force to be better known the world over
in the bitterest part of this campaign as the Kodish Force.

Here the doughboys got their baptism of fire when they took over under fire the outposts of
the village of Seletskoe. For the Bolos who had retreated the week before had told the inhabitants
they would be back and they were making their threat, or promise, as you will have it, good.
For two days and nights the Americans beat off the attacks, principally through the good work
of Sgt. Michael Kinney, the gallant soldier who fell at Kodish on New Year's Day. Aided by
the accurate fire of the French machine gun section, the "K" men inflicted such heavy penalties
that the Reds quit in panic, assassinated their commander and skurried south thirty miles.
However, this victory was not exploited by the Allied force. It seems that the commander of
the force had sent out a Russian patrol on the east bank of the Emtsa River which brought back
information that a heavy force of the enemy was operating in the rear of "D" force.

Accordingly Captain Scott ordered a retreat from Seletskoe to Tiogra, taking up a position
on the north bank of the Emtsa River after burning the bridge to prevent pursuit by the Reds
who it was afterwards found were fleeing in the opposite direction, after having burned another
bridge on the Emtsa further to the south to prevent the Americans from pursuing them.

An interesting story was often repeated about this funny episode which was due to the credence
given by the British officer to the report of the highly imaginative Russian patrol.

An English corporal on one of the outposts of Seletskoe was not informed by Captain Scott of
the retreat during the night. Next morning he went forward and discovered that the Reds had
burned their bridge. But when he went to report that fact he found the village of Seletskoe
evacuated by his own forces, natives also having fled with everything of value from the samovar
to the cow. A few hours later the old corporal appeared on the other bridgeless bank of the
Emtsa across from the "K" men who were digging in and said in a puzzled way, "I saiy, old chap,
wots the bloody gaime?"

Of course as soon as an improvised pontoon could be rigged up "K" Company and the rest of the
happily informed force were in pursuit again of the Reds. The bridge was constructed by a detachment
of the 310th American Engineers, who had come up with Col. Henderson, of the famous "Black
Watch," the new commander.

The French machine gunners by this time were badly needed on the railroad force. In their place
came a company of the Russian Officers' Training Corps.

On September 23rd Seletskoe was again occupied and the Yanks began improving its defenses,
taking much satisfaction in the arrival from Archangel of Lieut. Ballard's American machine
gun platoon. Within two days also their ranks were greatly strengthened by the arrival of Lieut.
Chappel from Issaka Gorka with the other two platoons of "K" company closely followed by Captain
Cherry with "L" Company from the Railroad force.

General Finlayson, whose job it was to take Plesetskaya, now sought to shove the Kodish force
ahead rapidly so as to trap the Reds on the railroad between the two forces. Accordingly the
next morning, September 26th, "K" Company and two platoons of "L" and the machine gun section
moved south toward Kodish to achieve the mission that had been assigned to Col. Hazelden. The
Bolshevik was found the next morning strongly entrenched on the other side of the river Emtsa
near the burned bridge and after severe losses suffered in the gaining of a foothold on the
north side of the river by crossing on a raft, the Americans had to dig in. In fact they lay
for over a week in the swamp hanging tenaciously to their position but unable to advance. Men's
feet swelled in their wet boots till the shoes burst. But still they hung on under the example
of their game old captain, At this time Lieut. Chappel was victim of a Bolo machine gun while
trying to lead a raiding squad up to its capture. Six others were killed and twenty-four were
wounded. Droskies needed for transportation of supplies and ammunition had to be used to take
back the wounded and sick from exposure to Seletskoe. No "K" or "L" or "M. G." man who was
there will ever forget those days.

It was obvious that the Kodish force must be augmented. English marines and a section of Canadian
artillery came up. Headquarters was established in the four-house village of Mejnovsky, eight
miles back. Steady sniping and patrol action was carried on actively by both forces. Col. Henderson's
further attempt to throw a force across the river by means of a raft was frustrated by the
Reds. October 7th Lieut.-Col. Gavin came up to assume command.

This energetic and keen British officer soon worked out plans for effecting an advance. Using
the American engineers, he soon had a ferry in use three versts--about two miles--below Mejnovsky.

And on October the 12th "K" and "L" Companies crossed on that ferry and marched up the left
bank of the Emtsa till within one thousand yards of the flank of the strong Bolo position,
and bivouacked in the swamp for the night. In the morning Captain Cherry took his company and
two platoons of "K" and struck south to pass by the flank and fall upon Kodish in rear of the
enemy who was holding the position in great force at the river.

The remainder of "K" Company moved upon the right of the enemy front line at the river crossing.
At the time Donoghue struck, a frontal demonstration was made upon the Reds by the English
marines and American machine guns firing across the river and by the Canadian artillery shelling
the woods where the Red reserves were thought to be. The plan failed because of the inability
of Captain Cherry to reach his objective, on account of the bottomless swamps that he encountered.
Captain Donoghue gained a foot-hold and then was forced to dig in and during the afternoon
repulsed two counter attacks of the Bolos, having paid for the capture of the two Bolo machine
guns by severe losses.

During the night under cover of these two platoons, "L" and the English marines crossed the
river, where the Reds had held them so many days. And during the following day the right of
the Bolo position was turned by a movement through the woods.

But at four o'clock in the afternoon the enemy's second, position, a mile north of the village,
developed surprising strength. In fact, the Reds counterattacked just at dark and once more
the doughboys lay down, on their arms, in the rain-flooded swamp, where the dark, frosty morning
would find them stiff and ugly customers for the Reds to tackle. In fact they did rise up and
smite the Bolshevik so swiftly that he fled from his works and left Kodish in such a hurry
that he gave no forwarding address for his mail. Captain Donoghue set up his headquarters in
Kodish and sent detachments out to follow the Reds and to threaten the Red Shred Makhrenga
and Taresevo forces. During this fight, or rather after it, the Canadians taught our boys their
first lesson in looting the persons of the dead.  Our men had been rather respectful and gentle
with the Bolo dead who were quite numerous on the Emtsa River battlefield. Can you call a tangle
of woods a field? But the Canadians, veterans of four years fighting, immediately went through
the pockets of the dead for roubles and knives and so forth and even took the boots off the
dead, as they were pretty fair boots.

The officer who reports this says he has often heard of dead men's boots but had to go to war
to actually see them worn.

In passing let it be stated that many a footsore doughboy helped himself to a dry pair of boots
from a dead Red Guard or in winter to a pair of valenkas, or warm felt boots. One of "Captain
Mike's" nervy sergeants protested against being sent back to Seletskoe to get him a new pair
of shoes, for he hated the ill-fitting British army shoe, as all Americans did, and prevailed
upon Donoghue to let him wait a few days till after a battle when he sure enough helped himself
to a fine pair of boots.

One thing the American never did take from the dead Bolo was his Russian tobacco, for it was
worse even than the British issue tobacco. A good story is told on one of Donoghue's lieutenants.
During the excitement of burning the bridge over the Emtsa at Tiogra, time when the two forces
fled from one another, the officer, greatly fatigued, sat down on the bridge during the preparations
by the men. He was missed later on the march and the man whom the captain sent back to find
the lieutenant arrived just in time to keep what little hair the popular bald-headed little
officer had from being singed off by the leaping flames. Lieut. Ryan does not like to be kidded
about it.

The morning of the seventeenth of October saw the American forces again on the advance. Good
news had come of the successes on the railroad.

The Kodish force was in the strategic position now to force the Reds to give up Emtsa and Plesetskaya.
But Trotsky's northern army commander evidently well understood that situation, for he gave
strict attention to this Kodish force of Americans and at the fifteenth verst pole on the main
road his Red Guards held the Americans all day. Again the next day he made Donoghue's Yanks
strive all day. Just at night successful flanking movements caused the enemy to evacuate his
formidable position. It was here that Sgt. Cromberger, one of Ballard's machine gun men, distinguished
himself by going single-handed into the Bolo lines to reconnoiter.

The converging advances upon Plesetskaya by the three columns, up the Onega Valley, on the
railroad and on the Kodish-Plesetskaya-Petrograd highway now seemed about to succeed. Hard
fighting by all three columns had broken the Bolshevik's confidence somewhat.

Of course at this time of writing it can be seen better than it could then. He did not make
a stand at Avda. He was found by our patrols way back at Kochmas, only a few miles from the
railroad. Meanwhile the Russian Officers' Training Corps which was armed with forty Lewis guns
and acted rather independently, together with the Royal Scot platoon and a large number of
"partisans," anti-Bolshevik volunteers of the area, effected the capture of Shred Makhrenga,
Taresevo and other villages, which added to the threat of the Kodish force on Plesetskaya.

Plesetskaya at that moment was indeed of immense value to the Reds. It was the railroad base
of their four columns that were holding up the left front of their Northern Army. But they
were discouraged. Our patrols and spies sent into Plesetskaya vicinity reported and stories
of deserters and wounded men all indicated that the Reds were getting ready to evacuate Plesetskaya.
A determined smash of the three Allied columns would have won the coveted position. But the
Kodish force now received the same strange order from far-off Archangel that was received on
the other fronts:

"To hold on and dig in." No further advances were to be made. Thinking of their eleven comrades
killed in this advance and of the thirty-one wounded and of the many sick from exposure, the
Americans on the Kodish force as well as the English marines and Scots who also had lost severely,
were loath to stop with so easy a victory in sight.

Of course General Ironside's main idea was right, but its application at that time and place
seemed to work hardship on the Kodish force. And the sequel proves it. To add to their discomfort,
the very size of this force which had struggled so valiantly this little distance, was now
reduced by the withdrawal of the English marines and of "L" Company, and by the ordering of
the Canadian artillery guns to the Dvina front. The remaining force with Captain Donoghue totalled
one hundred and eighty men, which seemed very small to them, in view of the fact that a mere
reconnoitering patrol from the Bolos now returning to activity always showed anywhere from
seventy-five to one hundred rifles and a machine gun or two. However, they made the best of
their remaining days in October to fortify the Kodish-Avda front sector of the road. The Yanks
were to be prepared for the worst. And they got it. Let us take a look at the position held
by these Americans. It is typical of the positions in which many of the far-flung detachments
found themselves.

At the seventeenth verst pole was a four-man outpost. At the sixteenth verst pole Lieut. Ballard
had two of his machine guns, a Lewis gun crew and some forty-six men from "K" Company. Four
versts behind him on the densely wooded road Lieut. Gardner with forty men and a Vickers gun
was occupying the old Bolo dugouts. One verst further back in the big clearing was Kodish village,
a place which by all the rules of field strategy was absolutely untenable. Here with four Vickers
guns were the remainder of "K" Company along with the sick and the lame and the halt, scarce
forty men really able to do active duty, but obliged to stay on to support their comrades.
The nearest friendly troops, including their artillery, were back at Seletskoe, thirty versts
away. On October 29th the Reds returned to Avda. The noise from that village and reports brought
by patrols indicated that this enemy who erstwhile was on the run, and whom our high command
now held lightly, was determined to regain Kodish. And while striking heavily at their enemy
on the railroad as we have seen, the Red Guards now fell upon this single company of Americans
strung out along the Kodish-Avda road.

In the afternoon of November 1st the enemy drove in our cossack post of "K" men at verst seventeen,
began shelling us with his artillery and for several days kept raiding Ballard heavier and
heavier. Meanwhile Captain Donoghue sent out from Kodish every available man to strengthen
the line. Night and day the men labored to erect additional defenses, with scarcely time to
close an eye in sleep, patrolling all the trails on their flanks. On the fourth of November,
the day the Reds were massed in such numbers on the railroad, they succeeded in forcing Ballard
from his trenches at the sixteenth verst pole. He fell back to the new defenses at the fifteenth
verst. It is related by his men that he passed between Bolo forces who lined the road but permitted
the Americans to escape.

Lieut. Gardner was now reinforced at the twelfth verst pole, for a patrol had lost a man somewhere
on the river flank and it was thought that the enemy was preparing to pass by the flank and
bag this body of American fighters by taking the newly constructed bridge on the Emtsa in the
rear of Donoghue's small force. This bridge was their "only way home."

Their worst fears came true. On the morning of the fifth of November these Yanks way out at
front of Kodish, holding the enemy off desperately from the frontal attack, and endeavoring
vainly to frustrate the flank attacks of their enemy in greatly superior numbers, suddenly
heard great bursts of machine gun fire way towards the rear in the vicinity of Kodish. Instantly
they knew that Reds had worked down the river by the flank from Avda or even from Emtsa on
the railroad and were attacking in force three miles to their rear. That made the situation
desperate. But the Yanks who had in the beginning of the campaign been looked down upon by
the Red Capped British High Command because of their greenness, now showed their fineness of
fighting stuff by fighting on with undiminished vigor and effectiveness. Nowhere did they give
way. Day and night they were on the alert. Attacks from the front, sly raids from the woods
on each side of the road, heart chilling assaults upon the cluster of houses in Kodish way
in their rear, and steady progress of the Red Guards toward the bridge on the Emtsa, their
only way out of the bag in which the worn and depleted company was being trapped, brought the
prolonged struggle to a crisis in the middle of the afternoon of the eighth of November.

It came as follows: Colonel Hazelden, survivor of the disaster earlier in the fall, as already
related, had returned to command the Kodish-Shred Makhrenga fronts, when Col. Gavin was sent
to command the railroad front where Colonel Sutherland had fizzled.

This gallant officer was on his way to the perilous front to see Ballard. Just as he passed
Gardner at the twelfth verst pole, he found himself and the two detachments of Americans at
last completely cut off by a whole battalion of Red Guards fresh from the south of Russia,
sent up by Trotsky to brace his Northern Army. For half an hour there raged a fight as intense
as was the bitter reality of the emergency to the forty Americans with Gardner in those dugouts.
By almost miraculous luck in directing their fire through the screen of trees that shielded
the Reds from view, Sgt. Cromberger's Vickers gun and Cpl. Wilkie's Lewis gun inflicted terrible
losses upon this fresh battalion just getting into action against the Americanskis. It was
massed preparatory to the final dispositions of its commander to overwhelm the Americans. But
with the hail of bullets tearing through their heavy ranks, the Bolos were unable long to stand
it, and at last broke from control, yelling and screaming, to suffer still more from the well-handled
guns when they left their cover and ran for the woods. And so the little force was saved. But
so loud and prolonged were the yells of the frightened and wounded Reds that Captain Donoghue,
a verst in the rear at his field headquarters, he related afterwards, paced the floor of the
log shack in an agony of certainty that his brave men were all gone. He had been sure that
the howling of the scattered pack had been the fervent yells of a last bayonet charge wiping
out the Yankees.

The Reds could not get themselves together for another attack at this point before dark but
did drive Ballard back verst after verst that afternoon. It was a grim handful of "M. G." and
"K" men who looked at their own losses and counted the huge enemy losses of that desperate
day and wondered how many such days would whittle them off to the point of annihilation. Col.
Hazelden had gone back to headquarters. Captain Donoghue now acted with his usual decisiveness.

The Americanskis had slipped out of the bag before the Red string was tied. And in the morning
of the 9th of November the good old Vickers guns and Lewis guns were peeking from their old
concealed strongholds on the American side of the Emtsa. Artillery support was reported on
the way to argue with the Bolo artillery. A platoon of "L" Company which had come up during
the last of the fighting, together with a platoon of replacement men from the old Division
in France, who had just come across the trail from the railroad, now took over the active defense
of the bridge.

Both sides began digging in. American Engineers came up to build block houses. And the fagged
warriors of machine gun and "K" infantry men now retired a short distance to the rear to make
themselves as comfortable as possible in the woods, and try to forget their recent harrowing
experiences and the sight of the seven bleeding stretchers that were part of the cost of trying
to hold a place that was a veritable death trap. Here it was that Major Nichols on a look-see
from the railroad detachments found them. He had been sent across by the French colonel commanding
Vologda force, under which this Kodish force had recently been brought. He was the first American
field officer that had come to inspect this hard-battered outfit. And his report on their miserable
plight had no little influence in bringing them relief.

Shortly afterward "K" Company was relieved by "E" Company which had come down from Archangel
guard duty, and "K" Company went to reserve position in Seletskoe and later marched across
the trail to Obozerskaya, took troop train to Archangel for a much needed and highly deserved
two weeks' change of scenery and rest, arriving one evening in November in an early winter's
snow storm at Smolny Quay where the "M" Company men captured them and their luggage and carried
them off to a big feed, first one they had had in Russia. Lieut. Ballard's heroic machine gun
platoon a few days later was also relieved, by Lieut. O'Callaghan's platoon. So ended the fall
campaign on the famous Kodish front.

VII

PENETRATING TO UST PADENGA

Taking Of Shenkursk On Vaga--"Horse Marines"--Battling At Puia--Bad Position For Troops--Retirement
To Ust Padenga--Critical Situation--"C" Company Stands Heavy Losses--Lieutenant Cuff And Men
Killed In Hand To Hand Fighting--Bolshevik Patrols--Cossack Forces Weak On Defense.

While the old first battalion was, as we have seen, fighting up to Seltso on the Dvina River,
numerous reports were coming in daily that a strong force of the Bolsheviki were operating
on the Vaga River. This river is a tributary of the Dvina and empties into it at a village
called Ust Vaga, about thirty versts below Beresnik and on which is located the second largest
town or city in the province of Archangel. This river was strategically of more value than
the upper Dvina, because, as a glance at the map will show, its possession threatened the rear
of both the Dvina and the Kodish columns. Accordingly, on the fifteenth day of September, accompanied
by a river gunboat, the remaining handful of Company "A", comprising two platoons, under Capt.
Odjard and Lieut. Mead, went on board a so-called fast river steamer en route to Shenkursk.
On the seventeenth day of September this detachment took possession of Shenkursk without firing
a single shot, the Bolsheviki having fled in disorder upon word of our arrival. The citizens
of this village turned out en masse to welcome us as their deliverers, and the Slavo-British
Allied Legion soon gained a considerable number of new recruits.

Shenkursk is a village about one hundred and twenty-five versts up the Vaga River from its
junction with the Dvina River. It is by far one of the most substantial and prosperous in the
province of Archangel. It differs very materially from all the surrounding country in that
it is located on good sandy soil on a high bluff overlooking the river and is comparatively
dry, even in wet weather. It is quite a summer resort town, has a number of well constructed
brick buildings, half a dozen or more schools, a seminary, monastery, saw mill, and in many
others respects is far above the average Russian village.

Upon their arrival our troops were quartered in an old Cossack garrison, reminiscent of the
days of the Czar. We prepared to settle down very comfortably for the winter. Our dream of
rest and quiet was rudely shattered, however, for two days later we were notified that the
British command for the Vaga River troops was on its way to Shenkursk, and that we were to
push further on down the river to stir up the enemy. Without question we were quite willing
to leave the enemy rest in peace as long as he did not molest us, but such was not the fortune
nor luck of war, and therefore, on September 1st, the small detachment of American troops,
reinforced by some thirty or forty S. B. A. L. troops, went steaming up the Vaga River on the
good ship "Tolstoy," a decrepit old river steamer on which we had mounted a pom pom and converted
it into a "battle cruiser." The troops immediately christened themselves the horse "marines"
and the name was quite an appropriate one as later events proved.

About noon that day Capt. Odjard and Lieut. Mead with two platoons arrived opposite a village
named Gorka when suddenly without any warning the enemy, concealed in the woods on both sides
of the river, opened up a heavy machine gun and rifle fire. Our fragile boat was no protection
from this fire. To attempt to run around and withdraw in the shallow stream was next to impossible,
so after a hasty consultation the commander grasped the horns of the dilemma by running the
boat as close to the shore as possible, where the troops immediately swarmed overboard in water
up to their waists, quickly gained the protection of the shore and spreading out in perfect
skirmish order, poured a hot fire into the enemy, who was soon on the run. This advance continued
for some several days until under the severe marching conditions, lack of food, clothing, etc.,
a halt was made at Rovdinskaya, a village about ninety versts from Shenkursk, and a few days
later more reinforcements arrived under Lieuts. McPhail and Saari.

A number of incidents on this advance clearly indicated that we were operating in hostile and
very dangerous country. Our only line of communication with our headquarters was the single
local telegraph line, which was constantly being cut by the enemy. At one time a large force
of the enemy got in our rear and we were faced with the unpleasant situation of having the
enemy completely surrounding us. Capt. Odjard determined upon a bold stroke. Figuring that
by continuing the advance and striking a quick blow at the enemy ahead of us, those in the
rear would anticipate the possibility of heavy reinforcements bringing up our rear. On October
8th we engaged the enemy at the village of Puiya. We inflicted heavy casualties upon him. He
suffered no less than fifty killed and several hundred wounded. As anticipated, the enemy in
our rear quickly withdrew and thus cleared the way for our retreat. We retired to Rovdinskaya,
which position we held for several weeks. The situation was growing more desperate day by day.
Our rations were at the lowest ebb; cold weather had set in and the men were poorly and lightly
clad, in addition to which our tobacco ration had long since been completely exhausted, which
added much to the general dissatisfaction and lowering of the morale of the troops.

With the approach of the Russian winter a new and dangerous problem presented itself. At the
outset of the expedition it had been planned that the troops on the railroad front were to
push well down the railroad to or beyond Plesetskaya. The Vaga Column was to go as far as Velsk
and there establish a line of communication across to the railroad front. Unfortunately, their
well-laid plans fell through and perhaps fortunately so. The forces of the railroad had been
checked near Emtsa, far above Plesetskaya. The other troops on the Dvina had by this time retired
to Toulgas and as a consequence the smallest force in the expedition, the Vaga Column, was
now in the most advanced position of these three fronts, a very dangerous and poorly chosen
military position.

WAGNER Artillery "O. P.," Kodish

LANMAN Mill for Grinding Grain

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Pioneer Platoon Clearing Fire Lane

U. S OFFICIAL PHOTO Testing a Vickers Machine Gun

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Doughboy Observing Bolo in Pagosta--Near Ust Padenga

U S OFFICIAL PHOTO Cossack Receiving First Aid, Vistavka

LANMAN Ready for Day's Work

DOUD Flax Hung Up to Dry

WAGNER 310th Engineers at Beresnik

To make matters still worse, from the village of Nyandoma on the Vologda railroad, there is
a well defined winter trail, running straight across country to the village of Ust Padenga,
located on the Vaga River, about half way between Shenkursk and Rovdinskaya. Rumors were constantly
coming in that the Bolo was occupying the villages all along this trail in order to launch
a big drive on Shenkursk as soon as winter set in. On these frozen, packed trails, troops,
artillery, etc., could be moved as easily and readily as by rail.

In order then to withdraw our lines and to add greater safety to the columns, it was finally
decided to withdraw from Rovdinskaya to Ust Padenga.

At one o'clock on the morning of October 18th, as we lay shivering and shaking in the cold
and dismal marshes, which we chose to call our front line, orders came through for us to hold
ourselves in readiness for a quick and rapid retreat the following morning. All that night
we had Russian peasants, interpreters, etc., scouring the villages about us for horses and
carts to assist in our withdrawal. At 6:00 a. m. that morning the withdrawal began. The god
of war, had he witnessed this strange sight that morning, must have recalled a similar sight
a hundred years and more prior to that, at Moscow, when the army of the great Napoleon was
scattered to the winds by the cavalry and infantry of the Russian hordes. Three hundred and
more of the ludicrous two-wheeled Russian carts preceded us with the artillery, floundering,
miring, and slipping in the sticky, muddy roads. Following at their rear, came the tired, worn
and exhausted troops--unshaven, unkempt and with tattered clothing. They were indeed a pitiful
sight. All that day they marched steadily on toward Ust Padenga. To add to the difficulty of
the march, a light snow had fallen which made the roads a mere quagmire. Late that night we
arrived at the position of Ust Padenga, which was to become our winter quarters and where later
so many of our brave men were to lay down their lives in the snow and cold of the Russian forests.

With small delay for rest or recuperation we at once began preparation for the defense of this
position. Our main position and the artillery were stationed in a small village called Netsvetyavskaya,
situated on a high bluff by the side of which meandered the Vaga River. In front of this bluff
flowed the Padenga River, a small tributary of the Vaga, and at our right, all too close for
safety, was located the forest. About one thousand yards directly ahead of us was located the
village of Ust Padenga proper, which was garrisoned by a company of Russian soldiers. To our
right and about seventeen hundred yards ahead of us on another bluff was located the village
of Nijni Gora, to be the scene of fierce fighting in the snow.

On the last day of October Company "A", which had been on this front for some forty days without
a relief, were relieved by Company "C" and a battery of Canadian Artillery was also brought
up to reinforce this position.

All was now rather quiet on this front, but rumors more and more definite were coming in daily
that the Bolo was getting ready to launch a big drive on this front. From the location of our
troops here, several hundred miles and more from our base on the Dvina and with long drawn
out lines of communication, some of the stations forty miles or so apart, it was apparent that
if attacked by a large force, we would have to give way. It was also plainly apparent that
in case the Vaga River force was driven back to the Dvina it would necessitate the withdrawal
of the forces on the Dvina from their strongly fortified position at Toulgas--consequently,
we received orders that this position at Ust Padenga must be held at all cost. Such was the
critical position of the Americans sent up the river by order of General Poole on a veritable
fool's errand. The folly of his so-called "active defense" of Archangel was to be exposed most
plainly at Ust Padenga and Shenkursk in winter.

By the middle of November the enemy was becoming more and more active in this vicinity. On
the seventeenth day of November a small patrol of Americans and Canadians were ambushed and
only one man, a Canadian, escaped. The ambush occurred in the vicinity of Trogimovskaya, a
village about eight versts below Ust Padenga, where it was known that the Bolo was concentrating
troops.

On the morning of November 29th, acting under orders from British Headquarters, a strong patrol,
numbering about one hundred men, was sent out at daybreak, under Lieut. Cuff of "C" Company,
to drive the enemy out of this position. The only road or trail leading into this town ran
through a dense forest. The snow, of course, was so deep in the forest that it was impossible
to proceed by any other route than this roadway or trail. As this patrol was approaching one
of the most dense portions of the forest they were suddenly met by an overwhelming attacking
party, which had been concealed in the forest. The woods were literally swarming with them
and after a sharp fight Lieut. Francis Cuff, one of the bravest and most fearless officers
in the expedition, in command of the patrol, succeeded in withdrawing his platoon.

A detachment of the patrol on the edge of the woods skirting the Vaga River was having considerable
difficulty extricating itself, however, and without faltering Lieut. Cuff immediately deployed
his men and opened fire again upon the enemy. During this engagement, he, with several other
daring men, became separated from their fellows and it was at this time that he was severely
wounded. He and his men, several of whom were also wounded, although cut off and completely
surrounded, fought like demons and sold their lives dearly, as was evidenced by the enemy dead
strewn about in the snow near them. The remains of these heroic men were later recovered and
removed to Shenkursk, where they were buried almost under the shadows of the cathedral located
there.

During this period the thermometer was daily descending lower and lower; snow was falling continually
and the days were so short and dark that one could hardly distinguish day from night. These
long nights of bitter cold, with death stalking at our sides, was a terrible strain upon the
troops. Sentries standing watch in the lonely snow and cold were constantly having feet, hands,
and other parts of their anatomy frozen. Their nerves were on edge and they were constantly
firing upon white objects that could be seen now and then prowling around in the snow. These
objects as we later found were enemy troops clad in white clothing which made it almost impossible
to detect them.

About this time an epidemic of "flu" broke out in some of the villages. In view of the Russian
custom of keeping the doors and windows of their houses practically sealed during the winter
and with their utter disregard for the most simple sanitary precautions, small wonder it was
that in a short time the epidemic was raging in practically every village within our lines.
The American Red Cross and medical officers of the expedition at once set to work to combat
the epidemic as far as the means at their disposal would permit. The Russian peasant, of course,
in true fatalist fashion calmly accepted this situation as an inevitable act of Providence,
which made the task of the Red Cross workers and others more difficult. The workers, however,
devoted themselves to their errand of mercy night and day and gradually the epidemic was checked.
This voluntary act of mercy and kindness had a great effect upon the peasantry of the region
and doubtless gave them a better and more kindly opinion of the strangers in their midst than
all the efforts of our artillery and machine guns ever could have done. And when in the winter
horses and sleighs meant life or death to the doughboys, the peasants were true to their American
soldier friends.

After the fatal ambush of Lieutenant Cuff's patrol at Ust Padenga, "C" Company, was relieved
about the first of December by Company "A." During the remainder of the month there was more
or less activity on both sides of the line. About the fifth or sixth of the month, the enemy
brought up several batteries of light field artillery in the dense forests and begun an artillery
bombardment of our entire line. Fortunately, however, we soon located the position of their
guns and our artillery horses were immediately hitched to the guns, and supported by two platoons
of "A" Company under Captain Odjard and Lieut. Collar, swung into a position from which they
obtained direct fire upon the enemy guns with the result that four guns were shortly thereafter
put out of commission.

From this time on, there were continual skirmishes between the outposts and patrols. The Bolo's
favorite time for patrolling was at night and during the early hours of the morning when everything
was pitch dark. They all wore white smocks over their uniforms and they could easily advance
within fifteen or twenty feet of our sentries and outposts without being seen. They were not
always so fortunate, however, in this reconnoitering, as a picture on a following page proves
which shows one of their scouts clad in the white uniform and cap, who was shot down by one
of our sentries when he was less than fifteen feet away from the sentry. Outside of the terrific
cold and the natural hardships of the expedition, the month of December was comparatively quiet
on the Padenga front.

However, in the neighborhood of Shenkursk there was a growing feeling that a number of the
enemy troops were in nearby villages and that the enemy was constantly occupying more and more
of them daily. In order to break up this growing movement and to assure the natives of the
Shenkursk region that we would brook no such interference or happenings within our lines, on
the fifth of December, a strong detachment, consisting of Company "C" under Lieut. Weeks, and
Russian infantry, mounted Cossacks, and a pom pom detachment, set out for Kodima about fifty
versts north and east of Shenkursk toward the Dvina River.

It was reported that there were about one hundred and fifty or two hundred of the enemy located
in this village, who were breaking a trail through from the Dvina River in order that they
could send across supporting troops from the Dvina for the attack on Shenkursk. Our detachment,
after a day and a half's march, arrived in the vicinity of Kodima and prepared to take the
position. At about the moment when the attack was to begin, it was found that the pom poms
and the Vickers guns were not working. The thermometer at this time stood at fifty below zero
and the intense cold had frozen the oil in the buffers of the pom poms and machine guns, rendering
them worse than useless. Fortunately, this was discovered in time to prevent any casualties,
for it was later found that there were between five hundred and one thousand of the enemy located
in this position and that they were intrenched in prepared positions and well equipped with
rifles, machine guns and artillery.

Our forces, of course, were compelled to retreat, but this maneuver naturally gave the enemy
greater courage and the following week it was reported that they were advancing from Kodima
on Shenkursk. We at once dispatched a large force of infantry, artillery, and mounted Cossacks
to delay this advance. This maneuver was also a miserable failure, and it is not difficult
to understand the reason for same when one considers that this detachment was composed of Americans,
Canadians, and Russians, of every conceivable, type and description, and orders issued to one
body might be and usually were entirely misunderstood by the others.

Shortly after this, however, the Cossack Colonel desired to vindicate his troops and a new
attack was planned in which the Cossacks, supported by their own artillery, were to launch
a drive against the enemy at Kodima. After a big night's pow-wow and a typical Cossack demonstration
of swearing eternal allegiance to their leader and boasting of the dire punishment they were
going to inflict upon the enemy, they sallied forth from Shenkursk with their banners gaily
flying. No word was heard from them until the following evening when just at dusk across the
river came, galloping like mad, the first news-bearers of our valiant cohorts. On gaining the
shelter of Shenkursk, most of them were completely exhausted and many of their horses dropped
dead from over-exertion on the way, while others died in Shenkursk.

Our first informants described at great detail a thrilling engagement in which they had participated
and how they had fought until their ammunition became exhausted, when they were forced to retreat.
Others described in detail how Prince Aristoff and his Adjutant, Captain Robins, of the British
Army, had fought bravely to the last and when about to be taken prisoners, used the last bullets
remaining in their pistols to end their lives, thus preventing capture. More and more of the
scattered legion were constantly arriving, and each one had such a remarkably different story
to tell from that of his predecessor, that by the following morning, we were all inclined to
doubt all of the stories.

However, it is true that Colonel Aristoff and Robins failed to return, and we were compelled
for the time being to assume that at least part of the stories were true. The Cossacks immediately
went into deep mourning for the loss of their valiant leader and affected great grief and sorrow.
This, however, did not prevent them from ransacking the Colonel's headquarters and carrying
off all his money and jewelry and, in fact, about everything that he owned. Four days later,
however, in the midst of all this mourning and demonstrations, we were again treated to a still
greater surprise, for that afternoon who should come riding into the village but the Colonel
himself along with his adjutant. It can be readily imagined what scrambling and endeavor there
was on the part of the sorrowing ones to return undetected to the Colonel's headquarters his
stolen property and belongings. For days thereafter, the garrison resounded to the cracking
of the Colonel's knout, and this time the wailing and shedding of tears was undoubtedly more
real than any that had been shed previously to that time. These various unfortunate affairs,
while harmful enough in themselves, did far greater harm than such incidents would ordinarily
warrant, in this respect, that they gave the enemy greater and greater confidence all along,
meanwhile lowering the morale of our Russian cohorts as well as our own troops.

And here we leave these hardy Yanks, far, far to the south of Archangel. When their story is
picked up again in the narrative, it will be found to be one of the most thrilling stories
in American military exploits.

VIII

PEASANTRY OF THE ARCHANGEL PROVINCE

Russian Peasant Born Linguist--Soldiers See Village Life--Communal Strips Of Land Tilled By
Grandfather's Methods--Ash Manure--Rapid Growth During Days Of Perpetual Daylight--Sprinkling
Cattle With Holy Water--"Sow In Mud And You Will Be A Prince"--Cabbage Pie At Festival--Home-Brewed
"Braga" More Villainous Than Vodka--Winter Occupations And Sports--North Russian Peasants Less
Illiterate Than Commonly Supposed.

The province of Archangel is in the far north or forest region of Russia. The arable land all
told forms little more than two per cent of the vast area. The population is scarce and averages
little more at the most than two to the square mile, according to the latest figures, about 1905.

During the late fall and early winter, shortly after Company "A" had been relieved at Ust Padenga,
we were stationed in the village of Shegovari. Here we had considerable leisure at our disposal
and consequently the writer began devoting more time to his linguistic studies. This may perhaps
be readily understood when one considers that a great majority of the upper classes speak French
or German fluently and a great number English as well. Then, too, the many and varied races
that have united and intermingled to form the Russian race may offer an equally satisfactory
explanation.

Shegovari may be taken as a fair example of the villages throughout the northern half of Russia,
and a brief description of its inhabitants will convey a correct notion of the northern peasantry
in general. The village itself is located about forty versts above Shenkursk on the banks of
the Vaga river, which meanders and winds about the village so that the river is really on both
sides. On account of this location there is more arable land surrounding the village than is
found in the average community and dozens of villages are clustered about this particular location,
the villages devoting most of their time to agricultural pursuits. As is typical throughout
the province this land is divided into three large fields, each of which is again subdivided
into strips. The first field is reserved for one of the most important grains, i.e., rye, which
in the form of black bread, is the principal food of the population. In the second are raised
oats for the horses and here and there some buckwheat which is also used for food. The third
field lies fallow and is used in the summer for pasturing the cattle.

This method of dividing the land is so devised in order to suit the triennial rotation of crops,
a very simple system, but quite practical nevertheless. The field which is used this year for
raising winter grain, will be used next summer for raising summer grain and in the following
year will lie fallow. Every family possesses in each of the two fields under cultivation one
or more of the subdivided strips, which he is accountable for and which he must cultivate and
attend to.

The arable lands are of course carefully manured because the soil at its best is none too good
and would soon exhaust it. In addition to manuring the soil the peasant has another method
of enriching the soil. This simple method accounts for the many patches of burned forest area,
which we at first believed to be the result of forest fires. When spring comes round and the
leaves begin to appear, a band of peasants, armed with their short hand axes, with which they
are most dextrous, proceed to some spot previously decided upon and fell all trees, great and
small within the area. If it is decided to use the soil in that immediate vicinity, the fallen
trees are allowed to remain until fall, when the logs for building or firewood are dragged
away as soon as the first snow falls. The rest of the piles, branches, etc., are allowed to
remain until the following spring, at which time fires may be seen spreading in all directions.
If the fire does its work properly, the whole of the space is covered with a layer of ashes,
and when they have been mixed with the soil the seed is sown, and the harvest, nearly always
good, sometimes borders on the miraculous. Barley or rye may be expected to produce about six
fold in ordinary years and they may produce as much as thirty fold under exceptional circumstances!

The agricultural year in this region begins in April, with the melting snows. Nature which
has been lying dormant for some six months, now awakes and endeavors to make up for lost time.

On the Russian St. George's Day, April 23rd, according to the old Russian calendar, or two
weeks later according to our calendar, the cattle are brought forth from their winter hibernation
and sprinkled with holy water by the priest. They are never very fat at any time of the year
but at this particular period of the year their appearance is almost pitiful. During the winter
they are kept cooped up in a shed, usually one adjoining the house or under the porch of same
with very little, if any, light or ventilation, and fed almostly exclusively on straw. It is
quite remarkable that there is one iota of life left in them for when they are thus turned
out in the spring they look like mere ghosts of their former selves. With the horses it is
a different matter for it is during the winter months in this region that the peasants do most
of their traveling and the horse is constantly exposed to the opposite extreme of exposure
and the bleak wind and cold, but is well fed.

Meanwhile the peasants are impatient to begin the field labor--it is an old Russian proverb
known to all which says: "Sow in mud and you will be a prince," and true to this wisdom they
always act accordingly. During the summer months the sun in this region scarcely ever sets
below the horizon and the peasant may often be found in the fields as late as twelve o'clock
at night trying to complete the day's work. In a little more than a month from this time he
has to reap and stack his grain, oats, rye and whatever else he may have sown, and to sow his
winter grain for the next, year. To add to the difficulty both grains often ripen about the
same time and then it requires almost superhuman efforts on his part to complete his task before
the first snow flies.

When one considers that all this work is done by hand--the planting, plowing, reaping, threshing,
etc., in the majority of cases by home made instruments, it is really a more remarkable thing
that the Russian peasant accomplishes so much in such a short space of time. About the end
of September, however, the field labor is finished and on the first day of October the harvest
festival begins. At this particular season of the year our troops on the Vaga river were operating
far below Shenkursk in the vicinity of Rovdinskaya and it was our good fortune to witness a
typical parish fete--celebrated in true Russian style. While it is true during the winter months
that the peasant lives a very, frugal and simple life, it is not in my opinion on account of
his desire so to do but more a matter of necessity. During the harvest festivals the principal
occupation of the peasant seems to be that of eating and drinking. In each household large
quantities of braga or home brewed beer is prepared and a plentiful supply of meat pies are
constantly on hand. There is also another delectable dish, which I am sure did not appeal to
our troops to the fullest extent. It was a kind of pie composed of cabbage and salt fish, but
unless one was quite accustomed to the odor, he could not summon up sufficient courage to attack
this viand. It, however, was a very popular dish among the peasants.

After a week or so of this preparation the fete day finally arrives and the morning finds the
entire village attending a long service in the village church. All are dressed in their very
best and the finest linens and brightest colors are very much in evidence. After the service
they repair to their different homes--of course many of the poorer ones go to the homes of
the more well to do where they are very hospitably received and entertained. All sit down to
a common table and the eating begins. I attended a dinner in a well-to-do peasant's house that
day and before the meal was one-third through I was ready to desist. The landlord was very
much displeased and I was informed confidentially by one of the Russian officers who had invited
me that the landlord would take great offense at the first to give up the contest--and that
as a matter of fact instead of being a sign of poor breeding, on the contrary it was considered
quite the thing to stuff one's self until he could eat no more. As the meal progressed great
bowls of braga and now and then a glass of vodka were brought in to help along the repast.
After an almost interminable time the guests all rose in a body and facing the icon crossed
themselves--then bowing to the host--made certain remarks which I afterward found out meant,
"Thanks for your bread and salt"--to which the host replied, "Do not be displeased, sit down
once more for goodluck," whereupon all hands fell to again and had it not been for a mounted
messenger galloping in with important messages, I am of the opinion that we would probably
have spent the balance of the day trying not to displease our host. Beef, mutton, pork and
the like are entirely too expensive to be considered as a common article of food and consequently
the average peasant is more or less of a vegetarian, living on cabbage, cabbage soup, potatoes,
turnips and black bread the entire winter--varied now and then with a portion of salt fish.
The male peasants do very little work during these winter months and spend most of their time
lying idly upon the huge brick stoves. Some of them, it is true, have some handicraft that
occupies their winter hours; others will take their guns and a little parcel of provisions
and wander about in the trackless forests for days at a time. If successful, he may bring home
a number of valuable skins--such as ermine, fox and the like. Sometimes a number of them associate
for the purpose of deep sea fishing, in which case they usually start out on foot for Kem on
the shores of the White Sea or for the far away Kola on the Murmansk Coast. Here they must
charter a boat and often times after a month or two of this fishing they will be in debt to
the boat owner and are forced to return with an empty pocket. While we were there we gave them
all plenty to do--village after village being occupied in the grim task of making barb wire
entanglements, etc., building block houses, hauling logs, and driving convoys. This was of
course quite outside their usual occupation and I am of the impression that they were none
to favorably impressed--perhaps some of them are explaining to the Bolo Commissars just how
they happened to be engaged in these particular pursuits.

For the female part of the population, however, the winter is a very busy and well occupied
time. For it is during these long months that the spinning and weaving is done and cloth manufactured
for clothing and other purposes. Many of them are otherwise engaged in plaiting a kind of rude
shoe--called lapty, which is worn throughout the summer by a great number of the peasants--and
I have seen some of them worn in extremely cold weather with heavy stockings and rags wrapped
around the feet. This was probably due to the fact, however, that leather shoes and boots were
almost a thing of the past at that time, for it must be remembered that Russia had been practically
shut off from the rest of the world for almost four years during the period of the war. The
evenings are often devoted to besedys--a kind of ladies' guild meeting, where all assemble
and engage in talking over village gossip, playing games and other innocent amusements, or
spinning thread from flax.

Before closing this chapter, I wish to comment upon an article that I read some months ago
regarding what the writer thought to be a surprising abundance of evidence disproving the common
idea of illiteracy among the Russian peasants. It is admitted that the peasants of this region
are above the average in the way of education and ability, but as I have later learned they
are not an average type of the millions of peasants located in the interior and the south of
Russia, whose fathers and forefathers and many of themselves spent the greater part of their
lives as serfs. While the peasants of this region nominally may have come under the heading
of serfs, yet when they were first driven into this country for the purpose of colonization
and settlement by Peter the Great, they were given far greater liberties than any of the peasants
of the south enjoyed. They were settled on State domains and those that lived on the land of
landlords scarcely ever realized the fact, inasmuch as few of the landed aristocracy ever spent
any portion of their time in the province of Archangel unless compelled to do so. In addition
to this liberty and freedom, there was also the stimulating effect of the cold, rigorous climate
and therefore it is more readily understood why the peasants of this region are more energetic,
more intelligent, more independent and better educated than the inhabitants of the interior
to the south.

After becoming somewhat acquainted with the family life of the peasantry, and no one living
with them as intimately as we did, could have failed to have become more than ordinarily acquainted,
we turned our attention to the local village government or so-called Mir. We were also well
acquainted with the fact that the land in the vicinity of the village belonged to the commune,
and was distributed periodically among the members in such a way that every able bodied man
possessed a share sufficient for his maintenance, or nearly so. Beyond this, however, few of
us knew little or nothing more. We were fortunate in having with us a great number of Russian
born men, who of course were our interpreters, one of whom, by the way, Private Cwenk, was
killed on January 19th, 1919, in the attack of Nijni Gora when he refused to quit his post,
though mortally injured, until it was too late for him to make his escape.

Through continual conversations and various transactions with the peasants (carried on of course
through our interpreters) the writer gradually learned much of the village communal life. While
at first glance there are many points of similarity between the family life and the village
life, yet there are also many points of difference which will be more apparent as we continue.
In both, there is a chief or ruler, one called the khozain or head of the house and the other
as above indicated, the starosta or village elder. In both cases too there is a certain amount
of common property and a common responsibility. On the other hand, the mutual relations are
far from being so closely interwoven as in the case of the household.

From these brief remarks it will be readily apparent that a Russian village is quite a different
thing from a provincial town or village in America. While it is true in a sense that in our
villages the citizens are bound together in certain interests of the community, yet each family,
outside of a few individual friends, is more or less isolated from the rest of the community--each
family having little to interest it in the affairs of the other. The individual cannot begin
to mow the hay or plough the fields until the assembly has decided the time for all to begin.
If one becomes a shirker or drunkard everyone in the village has a right to complain and see
that the matter is at once taken care of, not so much out of interest for the welfare of the
shirker, but from the plain selfish motive that all the families are collectively responsible
for his taxes and also the fact that he is entitled to a share in the communal harvest, which
unless he does his share of the work, is taken from the common property of the whole.

As heretofore stated on another page of this book, the land belonging to each village is distributed
among the individual families and for which each is responsible. It might be of interest to
know how this distribution is made. In certain communities the old-fashioned method of simply
taking a census and distributing the property according to same is still in use. This in a
great many instances is quite unfair and works a great hardship--where often the head of the
household is a widow with perhaps four or five girls on her hands and possibly one boy. Obviously,
she cannot hope to do as much as her neighbor, who, perhaps, in addition to the father, may
have three or four well-grown boys to assist him. It might be logically suggested, then, that
the widow could rent the balance of her share of the land and thus take care of same. If land
were in demand in Russia, especially in the Archangel region, as it is in the farming communities
of this country, it might be a simple matter--but in Russia often the possession of a share
of land is quite often not a privilege but a decided hardship. Often the land is so poor that
it cannot be rented at any price, and in the old days it was quite often the case that even
though it could be rented, the rent would not be sufficient to pay the taxes on same. Therefore,
each family is quite well satisfied with his share of the land and is not looking for more
trouble and labor if they can avoid it, and at the assembly meetings, when the land is distributed
each year, it is amusing to hear the thousand-and-one excuses for not taking more land, as
the following brief description will illustrate.

It is assembly day, we will imagine, and all the villagers are assembled to do their best from
having more land and its consequent responsibilities thrust upon them. Nicholas is being asked
how many shares of the communal land he will take, and after due deliberation and much scratching
of the head to stir up the cerebral processes (at least we will assume that is the function
of this last movement) he slowly replies that inasmuch as he has two sons he will take three
shares for his family to farm, or perhaps a little less as his health is none too good, though
as a matter of fact he may be one of the most ruddy-faced and healthiest individuals present.

This last remark is the signal for an outburst of laughter and ridicule by the others present
and the arguments pro and con wax furious. Of a sudden, a voice in the crowd cries out: "He
is a rich moujik, and he should have five shares of the land as his burden at the least."

Nicholas, seeing that the wave is about to overwhelm him, then resorts to entreaty and makes
every possible explanation now why it will be utterly impossible for him to take five shares,
his point now being to cut down this allotment if within his power. After considerable more
discussion the leader of the crowd then puts the question to the assembly and inquires if it
be their will that Nicholas take four shares. There is an immediate storm of assent from all
quarters and this settles the question beyond further argument.

This native shrewdness and spirit of barter is quite typical of the Russian peasant in all
matters--large or small--and he greets the outcome of every such combat with stoical indifference,
in typical fatalist fashion.

The writer recalls one experience in the village of Shegovari on the occasion of our first
occupation of this place. It was before the rivers had frozen over and headquarters at Shenkursk
was getting ready to install the sledge convoy system which was our only means of transportation
during the long winter months. Shegovari being a large and prosperous community and there being
a plentiful supply of horses there, we were accordingly dispatched to this place to take over
the town and buy up as many horses as could be commandeered in this section. In company with
a villainous looking detachment of Cossacks we set out from Shenkursk on board an enormous
barge being towed by the river steamer "Tolstoy." On our way we became pretty well acquainted
with Colonel Aristov, the commander of the Cossacks, who, through his interpreter, filled our
ears with the various deeds of valor of himself and picked cohorts. He further informed us
that the village where we were going was hostile to the Allied troops, and that there was some
question just at that time as to whether it was not in fact occupied by the enemy. Consequently
he had devised a very clever scheme, so he thought, for getting what we were after and incidentally
putting horses on the market at bargain rates.

We were to bivouac for the night some ten miles or so above the town and at early dawn we would
steam down the river on our gunboat. If there were any signs of hostility we were at once to
open up on the village with the pom pom mounted on board our cruiser, and the infantry were
to follow up with an attack on land. The colonel's idea was that a little demonstration of
arms would thoroughly cow the native villagers and therefore they would be willing to meet
any terms offered by him for the purchase of their horses. Fortunately or unfortunately (which
side one considers) the plan failed to materialize, for when we anchored alongside the village
the peasants were busily occupied in getting their supply of salt fish for the winter and merely
took our arrival as one of the usual unfortunate visitations of Providence. The colonel at
once sent for the starosta (the village elder as heretofore explained) who immediately presented
himself with much bowing and scraping, probably wondering what further ill-luck was to befall
him. The colonel with a great display of pomp and gesticulating firmly impressed the starosta
that on the following day all the peasants were to bring to this village their horses, prepared
to sell them for the good of the cause. ... The following morning the streets were lined up
with horses and owners, and they could be seen corning from all directions. At about ten o'clock
the parade began. Each peasant would lead his horse by the colonel, who would look them over
carefully and then ask what the owner would take for his horse. Usually he would be met with
a bow and downcast eyes as the owner replied: "As your excellency decides." "Very well, then,
you will receive nine hundred roubles or some such amount." Instantly the air of submissiveness
and meekness disappears and a torrent of words pours forth, eulogizing the virtues of this
steed and the enormous sacrifice it would be to allow his horse to go at that price. After
the usual haggling the bargain would be closed--sometimes at a greater figure and sometimes
at a lesser.

Now the amusing part of this transaction to me was that with my interpreter we moved around
amongst the crowd and got their own values as to some of these horses.  What was our amazement
some moments later to see them pass before the colonel who in a number of cases offered them
more than their estimates previously given to myself, whereupon they immediately went through
the maneuvers above described and in some cases actually obtained increases over the colonel's
first hazard.

This lesson later stood us in good stead, for some weeks later it devolved upon us to purchase
harnesses and sleds for these very horses and the reader may be sure that such haggling and
bargaining (all through an interpreter) was never seen before in this part of the country.
Somehow the word got around that the Amerikanskis who were buying the sleds and harness had
gotten acquainted with the horse dealing method of some weeks past and therefore it was an
especial event to witness the sale and purchase of these various articles, and, needless to
say, there was always an enthusiastic crowd of spectators present to cheer and jibe at the
various contestants. All these various transactions must have resulted with the balance decidedly
in favor of the villagers, for they were extremely pleasant and hospitable to us during our
entire stay here and instead of being hostile were exactly the opposite, actually putting themselves
to a great amount of trouble time after time to meet with our many demands for logs and laborers,
although they were in no way bound to do these things.

In our dealings with the community here, as elsewhere, all transactions were carried on with
the starosta or village head. We naturally figured that this officer was one of the highest
and most honored men of the village, probably corresponding to the mayor of one of our own
cities, but we were later disillusioned in this particular. It seems that each male member
of the community must "do time" some time during his career as village elder, and each one
tried to postpone the task just as long as it was in his power to do so. True it is that the
starosta is the leader of his community during his regime, but therein is the difficulty, for
coupled with this power is the further detail of keeping a strict and accurate account of all
the business transactions of the year, all the moneys, wages, etc., due the various members
for labors performed and services rendered. This, of course, is due to the fact that everything
is owned in common by the community: Land, food products, wood, in short, practically all tangible
property.

Imagine, then, the starosta who, we will say, at eight or nine o'clock on a cold winter's night
is called upon to have a dozen or more drivers ready the next morning at six o'clock to conduct
a sledge convoy through to the next town, another group of fifty or a hundred workmen to go
into the forests and cut and haul logs for fortifications, and still others for as many different
duties as one could imagine during time of war. He must furthermore see, for example, that
the same drivers are properly called in turn, for it is the occasion of another prolonged verbal
battle in case one is called out of his turn. During the day he is probably busily occupied
in commandeering oats and hay for the convoy horses and when night comes he certainly has earned
his day's repose, but his day does not end at nightfall as in the case of the other members
of the commune.

During our stay here, practically every night he would call upon the commanding officer to
get orders for the coming day, to check over various claims and accounts and each week to receive
pay for the entire community engaged in these labors. One occasion we distinctly recall as
a striking example of this particular starosta's honesty and integrity. He had spent the greater
part of the evening in our headquarters, checking over accounts involving some three or four
thousand roubles for the pay roll the following day. Finally the matter was settled and the
money turned over to him, after which we all retired to our bunks. At about one o'clock that
morning the sentry on post near headquarters awakened us and said the starosta was outside
and wished to see the commander, whereupon the C. O. sent word for him to come up to our quarters.
After the usual ceremony of crossing himself before the icon the starosta announced that he
had been overpaid about ninety roubles, which mistake he found after reaching his home and
checking over the account again. We were too dumfounded to believe our ears. Here was this
poor hard-working moujik who doubtless knew that the error would never have been discovered
by ourselves, and, even if it had, the loss would have been trifling, yet he tramped back through
the snow to get this matter straightened out before he retired to the top of the stove for
the night. Needless to say, our C. O. turned the money back to him as a reward for his honesty,
in addition to which he was given several hearty draughts of rum to warm him up for his return
journey, along with a small sack of sugar to appease his wife who, he said, always made things
warmer for him when he returned home with the odor of rum about him.

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Joe Chinzi and Russian Bride

DOUD Watching Her Weave Cloth

U.S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Doughboy Attends Spinning-Bee

DOUD Doughboy in the Best Bed--On Stove

MORRIS Defiance to Bolo Advance

DOUD 337th Hospital at Beresnik

RED CROSS PHOTO Onega

U S OFFICIAL PHOTO Y M. C. A., Obozerskaya

IX

"H" COMPANY PUSHES UP THE ONEGA VALLEY

Two Platoons Of "H" Company By Steamer To Onega--Occupation Of Chekuevo--Bolsheviki Give Battle--Big
Order To Little Force--Kaska Too Strongly Defended--Doughboys' Attack Fails--Cossacks Spread
False Report--Successful Advance Up Valley--Digging In For Winter.

Meanwhile "H" Company was pushing up the Onega Valley. Stories had leaked out in Archangel
of engagements up the Dvina and up the railroad where American soldiers had tasted first sweets
of victory, and "H" men now piled excitedly into a steamer at Archangel on the 15th of September
and after a 24-hour ride down the Dvina, across the Dvina Bay up an arm of the White Sea called
Onega Bay and into the mouth of the Onega River, landed without any opposition and took possession.
The enemy had been expelled a few days previously by a small detachment of American sailors
from the "Olympia."

The "H" force consisted of two platoons commanded by Lieuts. Phillips and Pellegrom, who reported
to an English officer, Col. Clark.

The coming of Americans was none too soon. The British officer had not made much headway in
organizing an effective force of the anti-Bolshevik Russians. The Red Guards were massing forces
in the upper part of the valley and, German-like, had sent notice of their impending advance
to recapture the city of Onega.

On September 18th Lieut. Pellegrom received verbal orders from Col. Clark to move his platoon
of fifty-eight men with Lieut. Nugent, M. R. C., and one man at once to Chekuevo, about fifty
miles up the river.

Partly by boat and partly by marching the Americans reached the village of Chekuevo and began
organizing the defenses, on the 19th. Three days later Lieut. Phillips was hurried up with
his platoon to reinforce and take command of the hundred and fifteen Americans and ninety-three
Russian volunteers. At dawn on the twenty-fourth the enemy attacked our positions from three
sides with a force of three hundred and fifty men and several machine guns.

The engagement lasted for five hours. The main attack coming down the left bank of the Onega
River was held by the Americans till after the enemy had driven back the Allies, Russians,
on the right bank and placed a machine gun on our flank.

Then the Americans had to give ground on the main position and the Reds placed another machine
gun advantageously. Meanwhile smaller parties of the enemy were working in the rear. Finally
the enemy machine guns were spotted and put out of action by the superior fire of our Lewis
automatics, and the Bolshevik leader, Shiskin, was killed at the gun. This success inspirited
the Americans who dashed forward and the Reds broke and fled. A strong American combat patrol
followed the retreating Reds for five miles and picked up much clothing, ammunition, rifles,
and equipment, and two of his dead, ten of his wounded and one prisoner and two machine guns.
Losses on our side consisted of two wounded. Our Russian allies lost two killed and seven wounded.

The action had been carried on in the rain under very trying conditions for the Americans who
were in their first fire fight and reflected great credit upon Lieut. Phillips and his handful
of doughboys who were outnumbered more than three to one and forced to give battle in a place
well known to the enemy but strange to the Americans and severely disadvantageous.

Outside of a few patrol combats and the capture of a few Bolshevik prisoners the remainder
of the month of September was uneventful.

The Onega Valley force, like the Railway and Kodish forces, was sparring for an opening and
plans were made for a general push on Plesetskaya. On September 30th Lieut. Phillips received
an order as follows:

  "The enemy on the railway line is being attacked today (the 29th) and
  some Cossacks are coming to you from Obozerskaya. On their arrival you
  will move south with them and prevent enemy from retiring across the
  river in a westerly direction.

  "Open the wire to Obozerskaya and ascertain how far down the line our
  troops have reached and then try to keep abreast of them but do not go
  too far without orders from the O/CA force (Col. Sutherland at
  Obozerskaya). I mean by this that you must not run your head against a
  strong force which may be retiring unless you are sure of holding your
  ground. There is a strong force at Plesetskaya on the railway and it
  is possible that they may retire across your front in the direction of
  the line running from Murmansk to Petrograd. The commandant of
  Chekuevo must supply you with carts for rations and, as soon as you
  can, make arrangements for food to be sent to you from the railway.
  The S. S. service can run up to you with supplies and can keep with
  you until you reach the rapids, if you go so far. Don't forget that
  the enemy has a force at Turchesova, south of you. Keep the transports
  in the middle of your column so that no carts get cut off, and it
  would be a good thing if you could get transport from village to
  village.

    "Captain Burton, R. M. L. I., will remain in command at Chekuevo."
                                                W. J. CLARK, Lieut.-Col.

The Americans knew that this was a big contract, but let us now look at the map and see what
the plan really called for. Forty miles of old imperial telegraph and telephone line to the
eastward to restore to use between Chekuevo and Obozerskaya. No signal corps men and no telling
where the wires needed repair. And sixty miles more or less to the south and eastward on another
road to make speed with slow cart transport with orders to intercept an enemy supposed to be
preparing to flee westward from the railway. Not forgetting that was to be done in spite of
the opposition of a strong force of Red Guards somewhere in the vicinity of Turchesova thirty-five
miles up the valley. "A little job, you know," for those one hundred and fifteen Americans,
veterans of two weeks in the wilds of North Russia.

The American officer from his reconnaissance patrols and from friendly natives learned that
the enemy instead of seeking escape was massing forces for another attack on the Americans.

About seven hundred of the Red Guards were heavily entrenched in and around Kaska and were
recruiting forces. In compliance with his orders, Lieut. Phillips moved out the next morning,
October 1st, with the eighteen mounted Cossacks, joined in the night from Obozerskaya, and
his other anti-Bolshevik Russian volunteer troops. Movement began at 2:30 a. m. with about
eight miles to march in the dark and zero hour was set for five o'clock daybreak. Two squads
of the Americans and Russian volunteers had been detached by Lieut. Phillips and given to the
command of Capt. Burton to make a diversion attack on Wazientia, a village across the river
from Kaska. Lieut. Pellegrom was to attack the enemy in flank from the west while Lieut. Phillips
and the Cossacks made the frontal assault.

Phillip's platoon was early deserted by the Cossacks and, after advancing along the side of
a sandy ridge to within one hundred yards of the enemy, found it necessary to dig in. Lieut.
Pellegrom on the flank on account of the nature of the ground brought his men only to within
three hundred yards of the enemy lines and was unable to make any communication with his leader.
Captain Burton was deserted by the volunteers at first fire and had to retreat with his two
squads of Americans. The fire fight raged all the long day. Phillips was unable to extricate
his men till darkness but held his position and punished the enemy's counter attacks severely.
The enemy commanded the lines with heavy machine guns and the doughboys who volunteered to
carry messages from one platoon to the other paid for their bravery with their lives. Believing
himself to be greatly outnumbered the American officer withdrew his men at 7:30 p. m. to Chekuevo,
with losses of six men killed and three wounded. Enemy losses reported later by deserters were
thirty killed and fifty wounded.

Again the opposing sides resorted to delay and sparring for openings. At Chekuevo the Americans
strengthened the defenses of that important road junction and kept in contact with the enemy
by daily combat patrols up the valley in the direction of Kaska, scene of the encounter. It
was during this period that one day the "H" men at Chekuevo were surprised by the appearance
of Lieut. Johnson with a squad of "M" Company men who had patrolled the forty miles of Obozerskaya
road to Chekuevo looking for signs of the enemy whom a mounted patrol of Cossacks sent from
Obozerskaya had declared were in possession of the road and of Chekuevo. They learned from
these men that on the railway, too, the enemy had disclosed astonishing strength of numbers
and showed as good quality of fighting courage as at Kaska and had administered to the American
troops their first defeat. They learned, too, that the French battalion was coming back onto
the fighting line with the Americans for a heavy united smash at the enemy.

A new party of some fifteen Cossacks relieved the eighteen Cossacks who returned to Archangel.
The force was augmented materially by the coming of a French officer and twenty-five men from
Archangel.

The same boat brought out the remainder of "H" Company under command of Capt. Carl Gevers,
who set up his headquarters at Onega, October 9th, under the new British O/C Onega Det., Col.
("Tin Eye") Edwards, and sent Lieut. Carlson and his platoon to Karelskoe, a village ten miles
to the rear of Chekuevo, to support Phillips.

Success on the railroad front, together with information gathered from patrols led Col. Edwards
to believe the enemy was retiring up the valley. An armed reconnaissance by the whole force
at Chekuevo moving forward on both sides of the Onega River on October 19th, which was two
days after the Americans on the railroad had carried Four Hundred and Forty-five by storm and
the Bolo had "got up his wind" and retired to Emtsa. Phillips found that the enemy had indeed
retired from Kaska and retreated to Turchesova, some thirty-five miles up the valley.

Phillips occupied all the villages along the river Kachela in force, sending his combat patrols
south of Priluk daily to make contact. Winter showed signs of early approach and, in compliance
with verbal orders of Col. Edwards at Onega, Phillips withdrew his forces to Chekuevo on October
25th. This seems to have been in accordance with the wise plan of the new British Commanding
General to extend no further the dangerously extended lines, but to prepare for active defense
just where snow and frost were finding the various widely scattered forces of the expedition.
On the way back through Kaska it was learned that two of the "H" men who had been reported
missing in the fight at Kaska, but who were in fact killed, had been buried by the villagers.
They were disinterred and given a regular military funeral, and graves marked.

Outside of daily patrols and the reliefs of platoons changing about for rest at Onega there
was little of excitement during the remainder of October and the month of November. Occasionally
there would be a flurry, a "windy time" at British Headquarters in Onega and patrols and occupying
detachments sent out to various widely separated villages up the valley. There seems to have
been an idea finally that the village of Kyvalanda should be fortified so as to prevent the
Red Guards from having access to the valley of the Chulyuga, a tributary of the Onega River,
up which in the winter ran a good road to Bolsheozerke where it joined the Chekuevo road to
Oborzerskaya. Wire was brought up and the village of Kyvalanda was strongly entrenched, sometimes
two platoons being stationed there.

Captain Gevers had to go to hospital for operation. This was a loss to the men. Here old Boreas
came down upon this devoted company of doughboys. They got into their winter clothing, gave
attention to making themselves as comfortable shelters as possible on their advanced outposts,
organized their sleigh transport system that had to take the place of the steamer service on
the Onega which was now a frozen barrier to boats but a highway for sleds. They had long winter
nights ahead of them with frequent snow storms and many days of severe zero weather. And though
they did not suspect it they were to encounter hard fighting during and at the end of the winter.

X

"G" COMPANY FAR UP THE PINEGA RIVER

Reds Had Looted Villages Of Pinega Valley--Winter Sees Bolsheviks Returning To Attack--Mission
Of American Column--Pinega--Pinkish-White Political Color--Yank Soldiers Well Received--Take
Distant Karpogora--Greatly Outnumbered Americans Retire--"Just Where Is Pinega Front?"

In making their getaway from Archangel and vicinity at the time the Allies landed in Archangel,
the Reds looted and robbed and carried off by rail and by steamer much stores of furs, and
clothing and food, as well as the munitions and military equipment. What they did not carry
by rail to Vologda they took by river to Kotlas. We have seen how they have been pursued and
battled on the Onega, on the Railroad, on the Vaga, on the Dvina. Now we turn to the short
narrative of their activities on the Pinega River. As the Reds at last learned that the expedition
was too small to really overpower them and had returned to dispute the Allies on the other
rivers, so, far up the Pinega Valley, they began gathering forces. The people of the lower
Pinega Valley appealed to the Archangel government and the Allied military command for protection
and for assistance in pursuing the Reds to recover the stores of flour that had been taken
from the co-operative store associations at various points along the river. These co-operatives
had bought flour from the American Red Cross. Accordingly on October 20th Captain Conway with
"G" Company set off on a fast steamer and barge for Pinega, arriving after three days and two
nights with a force of two platoons, the other two having been left behind on detached service,
guarding the ships in the harbor of Bakaritza. Here the American officer was to command the
area, organize its defense and cooperate with the Russian civil authorities in raising local
volunteers for the defense of the city of Pinega, which, situated at the apex of a great inverted
"V" in the river, appeared to be the key point to the military and political situation.

Pinega was a fine city of three thousand inhabitants with six or seven thousand in the nearby
villages that thickly dot the banks of this broad expansion of the old fur-trading and lumber
river port. Its people were progressive and fairly well educated. The city had been endowed
by its millionaire old trader with a fine technical high school. It had a large cathedral,
of course. Not far from it two hours ride by horseback, an object of interest to the doughboy,
was the three hundred-year-old monastery, white walls with domes and spires, perched upon the
grey bluffs, in the hazy distance looking over the broad Pinega Valley and Soyla Lake, where
the monks carried on their fishing. In Pinega was a fine community hall, a good hospital and
the government buildings of the area.

Its people had held a great celebration when they renounced allegiance to the Czar, but they
had very sensibly retained some of his old trained local representatives to help carry on their
government. Self government they cherished. When the Red Guards had been in power at Archangel
they had of course extended their sway partially to this far-off area. But the people had only
submitted for the time. Some of their able men had had to accept tenure of authority under
the nominal overlordship of the Red commissars. And when the Reds fled at the approach of the
Allies, the people of Pinega had punished a few of the cruel Bolshevik rulers that they caught
but had not made any great effort to change all the officers of civil government even though
they had been Red officials for a time. In fact it was a somewhat confused color scheme of
Red and White civil government that the Americans found in the Pinega Valley. The writer commanded
this area in the winter and speaks from actual experience in dealing with this Pinega local
government, half Red as it was. The Americans were well received and took up garrison duty
in the fall, raising a force of three hundred volunteers chiefly from the valley above Pinega,
whose people were in fear of a return of the Reds and begged for a military column up the valley
to deliver it from the Red agitators and recover their flour that had been stolen.

November 15th Captain Conway, acting under British G. H. Q., Archangel, acceded to these requests
and sent Lieut. Higgins with thirty-five Americans and two hundred and ten Russian volunteers
to clear the valley and occupy Karpogora.

For ten days the force advanced without opposition. At Marynagora an enemy patrol was encountered
and the next day the Yanks drove back an enemy combat patrol. Daily combat patrol action did
not interfere with their advance and on Thanksgiving Day the "G" Company boys after a little
engagement went into Karpogora. They were one hundred and twenty versts from Pinega, which
was two hundred and seven versts from Archangel, a mere matter of being two hundred miles from
Archangel in the heart of a country which was politically about fifty-fifty between Red and
White. But the Reds did not intend to have the Americans up there. On December 4th they came
on in a much superior force and attacked. The Americans lost two killed and four wounded out
of their little thirty-five Americans and several White Guards, and on order from Captain Conway,
who hurried up the river to take charge, the flying column relinquished its hold on Karpogora
and retired down the valley followed by the Reds. A force of White Guards was left at Visakagorka,
and one at Trufanagora, and Priluk and the main White Guard outer defense of Pinega established
at Pelegorskaya.

Like the whole expedition into Russia of which the Pinega Valley force was only one minor part,
the coming of the Allied troops had quieted the areas occupied but, in the hinterland beyond,
the propaganda of the wily Bolshevik agents of Trotsky and Lenine succeeded quite naturally
in inflaming the Russians against what they called the foreign bayonets.

And here at the beginning of winter we leave this handful of Americans holding the left sector
of the great horseshoe line against a gathering force, the mutterings of whose Red mobs was
already being heard and which was preparing a series of dreadful surprises for the Allied forces
on the Pinega as well as on other winter fronts. Indeed their activities in this peace-loving
valley were to rise early in the winter to major importance to the whole expedition's fate
and stories of this flank threat to Archangel and especially to the Dvina and Vaga lines of
communication, where the Pinega Valley merges with the Dvina Valley, was to bring from our
American Great Headquarters in France the terse telegram: "Just where is the Pinega Front?"

It was out there in the solid pine forests one hundred fifty miles to the east and north of
Archangel. Out where the Russian peasant had rigged up his strange-looking but ingeniously
constructed sahnia, or sledge. Where on the river he was planting in the ice long thick-set
rows of pines or branches in double rows twice a sled length apart. These frozen-in lines of
green were to guide the traveller in the long winter of short days and dark nights safely past
the occasional open holes and at such times as he made his trip over the road in the blinding
blizzards of snow. Out there where the peasant was changing from leather boots to felt boots
and was hunting up his scarfs and his great parki, or bearskin overcoat. That is where "G"
Company, one hundred strong, was holding the little, but important, Pinega Front at the end
of the fall campaign.

XI

WITH WOUNDED AND SICK

Lest We Forget S. O. L. Doughboy--Column In Battle And No Medical Supplies--Jack-Knife Amputation--Sewed
Up With Needle And Thread From Red Cross Comfort Kit--Diary Of American Medical Officer--Account
Is Choppy But Full Of Interest.

Some things the doughboy and officer from America will never have grace enough in his forgiving
heart to ever forgive. Those were the outrageous things that happened to the wounded and sick
in that North Russian campaign. Of course much was done and in fact everything was meant to
be done possible for the comfort of the luckless wounded and the men who, from exposure and
malnutrition, fell sick. But there were altogether too many things that might have been avoided.
Lest we forget and go off again on some such strange campaign let us chronicle the story of
the grief that came to the S. O. L. doughboy.

One American medical officer who went up with the first column of Americans in the Onega River
Valley in the fall never got through cussing the British medical officer who sent him off with
merely the handful of medical supplies that he, as a medical man, always carried for emergencies
of camp. Story has already been told of the lack of medical supplies on the two "flu"-infected
ships that took the soldiers to Russia. Never will the American doughboy forget how melancholy
he felt when he saw the leaded shrouds go over the side of the sister ship where the poor Italians
were suffering and dying. And the same ill-luck with medical supplies seemed to follow us to
North Russia.

Dr. Nugent, of Milwaukee, writes after the first engagement on the Onega front he was obliged
to use needle and thread from a doughboys' Red Cross comfort kit to take stitches in six wounded
men.

Lieut. Lennon of "L" Company reports that during the first action of his Company on the Kodish
Front in the fall, there was no medical officer with the unit in action. The American medical
officer was miles in rear. Wounded men were bandaged on the field with first aid and carried
back twenty-six versts. And he relates further that one man on the field suffered the amputation
of his leg that day with a pocket knife. The officer further states that the American medical
officer at Seletskoe was neglectful and severe with the doughboys. At one time there was no
iodine, no bandages, no number 9's at Kodish Front. The medical officer under discussion was
never on the front and gained the hearty dislike of the American doughboys for his conduct.

This matter of medical and surgical treatment is of such great importance that space is here
accorded to the letter and diary notes of an American officer, Major J. Carl Hall, our gallant
and efficient medical officer of the 339th Infantry, who from his home in Centralia, Illinois,
August 6th, 1920, sends us a contribution as follows:

"Take what you can use from this diary. Thought I would avoid the English antagonism throughout
but later have decided to add the following incident at Shenkursk, December 12, 1918. I was
ordered by the British General, Finlayson, to take the duties of S. M. O. and sanitary officer
of Vaga Column, that all medical and sanitary questions, including distribution of American
personnel would be under the British S. M. O. Dvina forces--right at the time the American
soldiers were needing medical attention most. This order absolutely contradicted my order from
the American headquarters at Archangel, making me powerless to care for the American soldiers.
I wired the British I could not obey it, unless sent from American headquarters. Col. Graham,
British officer in charge of Shenkursk column, informed me that I was disobeying an order on
an active front, for which the maximum punishment was death. I immediately told him I was ready
to take any punishment they might administer and sooner or later the news would travel back
to U. S. A. and the general public would awaken to the outrageous treatment given the American
soldiers by the hands of the British. This affair was hushed and I received no punishment,
for he knew that there would have to be too many American lives accounted for. I returned to
the base at Archangel and was then placed in charge of the surgery of the American Red Cross
Hospital.

"The Russian-English nurse story you know and also add that 75% of all medical stores obtained
from the British on the river front, if not stolen by myself and men, were signed over to us
with greatest reluctance, red tape, and delay. It was a question of fight, quarrel, steal and
even threaten to kill in order to obtain those supplies justly due us.

"Would like very much to have given you a more satisfactory report--but right now am rushed
for time--anyway, probably you can obtain most of the essential points.

  "Yours very truly,
(Signed) JOHN C. HALL."

This faithful and illuminating diary account of Major Hall's is typical of the story on the
other four fronts, except that British medical officers dominated on the Railroad front and
on the Onega front and at Kodish.

Upon arrival of 339th Infantry in Russia on Sept. 4th, 1918, as Regimental Surgeon, established
an infirmary in Olga Barracks, Archangel. After taking over civilian hospital by American Red
Cross, I then established a twenty bed military hospital and an infirmary at Solombola.

On Sept. 10th I was ordered to report to Major Rook, R. A. M. C, at Issakagorka, on railroad
front, four miles south of Bakaritza, for instructions regarding medical arrangements on River
and Railroad fronts.

On Sept. 11th I reported to Col. McDermott, R. A. M. C., A. D. M. S., North Russian Expeditionary
Force, and there received instructions that I should leave immediately for Issakagorka.

Accompanied by my interpreter, Private Anton Russel, and Sgt. Paul Clark, boarded Russian launch
for Bakaritza six miles up the Dvina and on the opposite bank of the river, where we transferred
to train and proceeded to Issakagorka. Upon arrival there and reporting to Major Rook, R. A.
M. C., I was informed that I should go armed night and day for they were having trouble with
local Bolsheviks and expected an attack any time.

Issakagorka is a village located in a swamp with about 2,000 population, and every available
room occupied. The overcrowded condition due to the presence of many refugees from Petrograd
and Moscow and other Bolshevik territories. The streets deep. An odor of decaying animal matter,
stagnant water and feces is to be had on the streets and in all the homes. At the house in
which I was billeted, a fair example of practically all Russian homes, the toilet was inside.

On Sept. 14th I was ordered to railroad front to inspect medical arrangements. Arrived at Obozerskaya
and found that Lieut. Ralph Powers had taken over the railroad station and had almost completed
arrangements for a Detention Hospital of forty beds. He had just evacuated thirty sick and
wounded. The first aid station being in a log hut, one-quarter mile west of station, in charge
of Capt. Wymand Pyle, M. C. In this there were ten stretchers which they had used for temporary
beds until cases could be evacuated to the rear.

Pits had been dug for latrines daily because the ground was so swampy the pit would fill with
water by night. The Americans had been instructed to boil water before drinking, but after
investigating I found it had been almost impossible for they had no way to boil it only by
mess cup, and the officers found it difficult to get the men to strictly observe this order.
The return trip from the front to Issakagorka was made on the ambulance train. This train consisted
of five coaches, which had been used in the war against Germany, and all badly in need of repair.
Two were nothing more than box cars fitted with stretchers. Two were a slight improvement over
these, having double-decked framework for beds, which were fitted with mattresses and blankets.
The other coach was divided into compartments. One an operating room, which was built on modern
plans, and the other compartment was built on the style of the American Pullman, and occupied
by the Russian doctor in charge of train, one felcher or assistant doctor (a sanitar), which
is a Russian medical orderly, and two Russian female nurses.

Our sick and wounded were being evacuated by this train from the front to Bakaritza; there
kept at the Field Hospital 337th or taken by boat to Archangel.

I reported to General Finlayson on Sept. 16 and was given 50,000 roubles to be delivered to
Col. Joselyn, then in charge of river forces, and informed to leave for river front to make
medical arrangements for the winter drive.

At noon Sept. 18th, with Lieut. Chappel and two platoons of infantrymen, boarded a box car,
travelled to Bakaritza, where we transferred to a small, dirty Russian tug. The day was spent
going south on Dvina River, toward Beresnik. At the same time Lieut. Chappel with the platoons
of infantrymen boarded a small boat and proceeded up the river.

The tug on which we were had no sleeping accommodations and on account of the number aboard
we had to sleep the first night sitting erect.

The cockroaches ran around in such large numbers that when we ate it was necessary to keep
a very close watch, or one would get into the food. The following day the infantrymen were
left at Siskoe and we went on to Beresnik. Lieut. Chappel was killed two days after leaving us.

Arrived at Beresnik, which is about one hundred and fifty miles from Archangel, after a thirty-eight-hour
trip; reported to Major Coker, and then visited British Detention Hospital in charge of Capt.
Watson, R. A. M. C. The hospital being a five-room log building with the toilet built adjoining
the kitchen.

In this hospital there were twenty sick and wounded Americans and Royal Scots. The beds were
stretchers placed on the floor about one and one-half feet apart. The food consisted of bully
beef, M and V, hard tack, tea and sugar, as reported by the patients stationed there. The pneumonia
patients, Spanish influenza and wounded were all fed alike.

It was here that I met Capt. Fortescue, R. A. M. C. A general improvement in sanitation was
ordered and Capt. Watson instructed to give more attention to the feeding of patients. With
Capt. Fortescue I visited civilian hospital two miles northwest of Beresnik; found Russian
female doctor in charge, and, looking over buildings, decided to take same over for military
hospital. Conditions of buildings fair; five in number, and would accommodate one hundred patients
in an emergency. The equipment of the hospital was eight iron beds. Vermin of all kinds, and
cockroaches so thick that they had to be scraped from the wall and shovelled into a container.
The latrines were built in the buildings, as is Russian custom, and were full to overflowing.
The four patients who were there were retained and cared for by the civilian doctor. While
at Beresnik we stayed at the Detention Hospital.

The following morning, Sept. 21st, with Capt. Fortescue, boarded British motor launch. After
travelling for about thirty versts we transferred on to several tugs and barges, and on Sept.
23rd boarded hospital boat "Vologjohnin," and left for front after hearing that there were
eight or ten casualties, several having been killed, but unable to ascertain name of village
where the wounded were.

After an hour slowly moving up stream, because of sand bars and mines, the tug was suddenly
stranded in mid-stream. After trying for two hours the captain gave up in despair. We then
arranged with engineers (a squad on board same tug) to make a raft with two barrels. When this
was about completed two boats approached from opposite directions. We then transferred to the
"Viatka" and proceeded to Troitza and there succeeded in commandeering twenty horses.

The following day with Capt. McCardle, American Engineer, Capt. Fortescue and Pvt. Russel,
with our horses, we crossed the river by ferry and then proceeded to the front. Traveling very
difficult on account of the swampy territory and lack of information from natives who seemed
afraid of us. The horses sank in the mud and water above their knees. The Bolos had told natives
that the Allies would burn their homes and take what little food they had.

Arrived at Zastrovia and saw American troops who informed us that the hospital was located
in the next village. Lower Seltso about three miles farther. Upon arrival there we located
the hospital, which was in a log hut, considered the best the village afforded, in charge of
Capt. Van Home and Lieut. Katz with eight enlisted Medical detachment men. Lieut. Goodnight
with twenty or thirty Ambulance men had just arrived at this place. Eight sick and wounded
Americans were being treated in hospital. Arranged for two more rooms so capacity of hospital
might be increased.

It was vitally important that these cases be evacuated at once, but there was no possible way
except by river, which was heavily mined. Decided it best to attempt evacuation by rowboat.
Sgt. Clair Petit volunteered to conduct convoy to hospital boat at Troitza. Convoy was arranged
and patients safely placed on board hospital boat, where they were hurriedly carried to Archangel.

Returned to headquarters boat the following morning and all seemed to be suffering from enteritis,
due to the water not being boiled. Sanitation in these villages almost an impossibility. Barn
built in one end of home, with possibly a hallway between it and the kitchen. The hay loft
is usually on a level with the kitchen floor, a hole in many houses is cut through this floor
and used as a toilet. Or it quite often is nothing more than a two-inch board nailed over the
sills. In the very best southern villagers' homes there may be a closed toilet in the hallway
between the barn and kitchen. These are the billets used by the Allied troops on the river
front in North Russia. The native seldom drinks raw water, but nearly always quenches his thirst
by drinking tea. Wired Major Longley at base Sept. 22nd for one-half of 337th Field Hospital
to be sent to Beresnik, to take over civilian hospital. Communication with the base was very
poor. Unable to get any definite answer to my telegrams.

Another trip was made from Troitza to Beresnik with hospital boat "Currier." Sick and wounded
Royal Scots taken to Field Hospital at Beresnik. After arrival they were loaded on two-wheeled
carts and hauled two miles to the hospital.

Upon arrival at Beresnik found Capt. Martin, with one-half of Field Hospital 337th, had taken
over civilian hospital.

On Sept. 28th it was decided to establish a detention hospital at Shenkursk, so Capt. Watson
and twelve R. A. M. C. men with medical supplies for a twenty-bed hospital were placed on board
hospital boat "Currier." After posting two guards with machine guns on the boat we started
on the trip to Shenkursk. A distance of about ninety-five versts from Beresnik on the Vaga River.

All along the way the boat stopped to pick up wood and at each stop natives would come down
to the river banks with vegetables and eggs, willing to trade most anything for a few cigarettes
or a little tobacco.

Arrived at Shenkursk at 5:00 p. m., Sept. 29th, and about one-half hour later the American
Headquarters boat docked next to the hospital boat. When the various boats docked at Shenkursk
all the natives of the town came down to the banks of the river and were very curious as well
as friendly. The village of Shenkursk is situated on a hill and surrounded by forest. One company
of Americans and a detachment of Russians in control of town. It had been taken only a few
days before.

Capt. Fortescue and I looked over civilian hospital and found it to be very filthy. Owing to
the fact that it was so small and occupied to its full capacity, decided to look further. Directing
our steps to the school, we found a very clean, desirable building, large enough to accommodate
at least one hundred patients.

After consulting the town commandant, were given permission to take over building for military
hospital. Capt. Watson and Capt. Daw, with equipment for thirty beds, were placed in charge.
Stretchers were used as beds, until it was possible to make an improvement or procure some
from base. Employed two Russian female nurses. Wired to Major Longley for one-half of Field
Hospital 337th to take over this hospital, and in addition more medical officers and personnel,
for Ambulance work. On Oct. 2nd Capt. Fortescue returned to Beresnik, which left me as A. D.
A. D. M. S. river forces. The same day we took quarters with Russian professor and established
an office in same building.

Upon investigation we found that the American troops had not been issued any tobacco or cigarettes
for several weeks and were smoking tea leaves, straw or anything that would smoke. The paper
used for these cigarettes was mostly news and toilet paper.

On Oct. 3rd, with Russian medical officer and six American enlisted medical men, we proceeded
to Rovidentia, the advance front, about thirty-five miles from Shenkursk on Vaga River. Established
a small detention hospital here of ten beds, leaving the Russian medical officer and six American
enlisted medical men in charge. This village was occupied by two platoons of Americans and
about one hundred Russians.

In comparison to previous villages I visited in Russia, Shenkursk was an improvement over most
of them. Mainly because of its location, there being a natural drainage, and the water was
much better, containing very little animal and vegetable matter.

On Oct. 7th with Pvts. Russel and Stihler again embarked on hospital boat "Vologjohnin," and
the following morning at 8:00 a.m. proceeded to Beresnik with a few Russian wounded, arriving
at 2:00 p.m. Made inspection of hospital. Capt. Martin with one-half of Field Hospital working
overtime, making beds, cleaning wards and hospital grounds, and at the same time caring for
thirty sick and wounded patients. Marked improvement over previous condition.

Left Beresnik Oct. 9th on hospital boat "Vologjohnin" with headquarters boat and small gunboat.
Downpour of rain. Gunboat landed on sand bar and headquarters boat turned back, but the "Vologjohnin"
kept on going until dark. Anchored opposite an island and at daybreak proceeded further, finally
reaching the only boat, the "Yarrents," left on the river front.

Before leaving Beresnik three more men were placed on board the boat. The personnel aboard
at this time consisted of Capt. Hall in charge, two Russian female nurses, five American medical
men and two British.

Upon arrival at Toulgas I received word from Major Whittaker that sixteen wounded and six sick
Royal Scots were located in the hospital at Seltso, but that Seltso had been under shell fire
that day and would be too dangerous to bring hospital boat up. That night, under the cover
of darkness with all lights extinguished, I ordered hospital boat to Seltso. We arrived at
Seltso but the British troops who were stationed there stated they knew nothing of the sick
and wounded Royal Scots, but that Royal Scots were stationed across the river. They stated
that it would be very dangerous to attempt to go across the river, and no one on the hospital
boat knew the exact location of the Royal Scots. After a while a British sergeant stated that
he would go along and direct the way, but when the boat pulled out the sergeant was not to
be found. But we went across the river. The barge directly opposite was empty, so we went to
the next barge about two versts farther up. That one had been sunk, so we went a few more versts
to the third barge which had been used by the Royal Scots but which had been evacuated by them
that day. I decided that we had gone far enough, and we returned to Toulgas. On the way back
we picked up two wounded officers of the Polish Legion, who had just come from the Borak front,
in a small rowboat, and stated it was at that place that they had the sick and wounded Scots.
It would be impossible to reach this place by boat, because they had quite a time in getting
through with a small boat. They would not believe that we had come up the river so far, and
made the remark that we had been within a few yards of the Bolshevik lines.

On Oct. 11th, after getting in touch with Major Whittaker, who stated that the Royal Scots
would be placed on the left bank of the river opposite Seltso, I ordered the boat to Seltso
to make another attempt to get the Royal Scots. Although we had the window well covered, the
Bolsheviks must have seen the light from a candle which was used to light the cabin. They began
firing, but could not get the range of the boat. We then returned without success.

On the afternoon of Oct. 12th, while Seltso was under shell fire, the "Vologjohnin" was docked
about twenty-nine yards behind the Allied barge with the big naval gun, and did not leave until
the shell fire became heavy. About 8:00 p.m., after transferring the sick troops and female
nurses from the "Vologjohnin," another attempt was made, although the Russian crew refused
to make another trip, and would not start until I insisted that the trip had to be made and
placed several armed guards, American Medical men, on the boat. On this night the medical supplies
were handed over to Capt. Griffiths, R. A. M. C, and casualties were safely placed on board.
After returning to Toulgas the female nurses and sick troops who had been left there were again
placed on board. The "Vologjohnin" proceeded to Beresnik where all casualties, totaling forty-three,
were handed over to the 337th Field Hospital.

(The Major modestly omits to tell that he with his pistol compelled the crew to run the boat
up to get the wounded men. General Pershing remembered Major Hall later with a citation. He
repeated the deed two days later, that time for Americans instead of Scots.)

Left Beresnik Oct. 14th with hospital boat for Seltso and upon arrival there, the town was
again under shell fire. All afternoon and evening the hospital boat was docked within twenty-five
yards of the big gun. Received reports that several Americans had been wounded so I ordered
the Russian crew and medical personnel of boat, with stretchers, to upper Seltso to get the
wounded. The seriously wounded had to be carried on stretchers through mud almost knee deep,
while the others were placed on two-wheeled carts and brought to the boat, a distance of two
miles. After two hours they succeeded in getting six wounded Americans on board, one dying,
another almost dead, and a third in a state of shock from a shrapnel wound in thigh. Necessary
to ligate heavy bleeders. Bolo patrol followed along after bearers.

That night the Allies retreated on both sides of the river. British Commanding Officer taken
aboard hospital boat. Remained over night anchored in mid-stream. Nothing could have prevented
the Bolo boats from coming down stream and either sink our boat or take us prisoners, for our
guns were left in the retreat. Several wounded on opposite bank but it was necessary for them
to be evacuated overland for several versts under most extreme difficulties on two-wheeled
carts through mud in many places to the horses' bellies. By moving up and down stream next
day the wounded were found. It was necessary to have the boat personnel serve what extra tea
and hard tack they had to the weary, mud-spattered Royal Scots.

Americans retreated to Toulgas on right bank of river where Lieut. Katz, M. C., with medical
detachment men established a detention hospital.

On Oct. 16th thirty-five sick and wounded patients were transferred to Field Hospital 337th,
Beresnik. Capt. Kinyon, M. C.., Lieut. Danziger, M. C., Lieut. Simmons, D. C., and one-half
of Field Hospital 337th arrived at Beresnik from base, and placed on board hospital boat "Currier."
Arranged to take personnel and supplies to Shenkursk and establish hospital there, at this
time occupied by Capt. Watson and fourteen R. A. M. C. men. Pvt. Stihler transferred to British
hospital barge "Michigan" to work in office of D. A. D. M. S. In addition to being used for
the office of the D. A. D. M. S., the barge was also used for a convalescent hospital of forty
beds, in charge of Capt. Walls, R. A. M. C.

Left Beresnik Oct. 18th with complete equipment and personnel for hospital of one hundred beds,
also medical and Red Cross supplies. Many refugees and several prisoners on board. Placed guards
from medical personnel over stores and prisoners. One prisoner tried to escape through window
of boat but was caught before he could get away.

RED CROSS PHOTO Trench Mortar Crew, Chekuevo--Hand Artillery

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Wounded and Sick--Over a Thousand in All

U S OFFICIAL PHOTO Bolo Killed in Action--For Russia or Trotsky?

ROULEAU Monastery at Pinega

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Russian 75's Bound for Pinega

HILL "G" Men Near Pinega

HILL Lewis Gun Protects Mess Hall, Pinega

He was reported later as Bolshevik spy, another as a Lett officer. Travel by night is against
the rules of Russian river boat crew. Had to use force to get them to continue moving. Arrived
at Shenkursk Oct. 19th and delivered prisoners. Relieved Capt. Watson, R. A. M. C., and personnel
from duty at detention hospital, and started Field Hospital 337. Returned to Beresnik and found
that hospital now working about full capacity. After placing all seriously sick and wounded
on board hospital ship "Currier" we proceeded to Archangel, and arrived there Oct. 22nd. Boat
greatly in need of repairs.

Arranged with Major Longley to get Red Cross and medical supplies, and had them placed aboard.
Among the Red Cross supplies were ten bags of sugar to be divided between the hospitals and
used for the purpose of bartering natives for vegetables, eggs and chickens.

Oct. 25th, 1918, weather growing colder. Departed for Beresnik on hospital boat. The Russian
crew did not want to travel at night but I insisted and we kept on going. Awakened by cooties.
After lighting my candle found quite a number.

Oct. 26th, 1918, stopped for a short time to pick up wood. Awakened by rumbling and cracking
noise against boat and upon looking out saw we were running through floating ice. This condition
persisted for thirty-five versts until we reached Beresnik. Crew stopped boat and refused to
go any farther. Necessary to use some moral "suasion." When we arrived at Beresnik found that
one paddle was out of order and bow of boat dented in many places and almost punctured in one
place.

Reported to General Finlayson, who ordered me to proceed with boat after unloading medical
and Red Cross supplies, to Pianda, which is about twelve versts back up river on a tributary
of the Dvina River, and report on the situation at Charastrovia for billets or building for
convalescent hospital. Left Bereznik for Pianda Oct. 28th and had to run boat through two miles
of almost solid ice, four inches thick. At the mouth of this tributary had to make three attempts
before successfully penetrating ice enough to get into channel of stream.

The following day after leaving a few medical supplies with Canadian Artillery Headquarters
and arranging transportation for myself and personnel, with a few cooking utensils and blankets,
we started for Beresnik. Stopped at Charastrovia and looked over several buildings but nothing
available worth while. Natives very unfriendly and suspicious. Arrived at Beresnik, reported
to the General and spent the night at Field Hospital 337.

Oct. 30th left on tug "Archangel" for Kurgomin with dentist. Received report that several casualties
were there to be evacuated. Reached Pless but found the river full of ice again. Captain of
boat stated that he could not get to Kurgomin, but within about three miles of the place. Docked
boat and walked through mud and water to my knees to Kurgomin. Found there had been a small
detention hospital of fifteen beds established by Capt. Fortescue in charge of Capt. Watson,
R. A. M. C. Good building at Pless for a hospital of fifty or seventy-five beds, which was
necessary to be taken over and used as advance base evacuating hospital after Dvina froze.
Sent dentist with equipment over to opposite bank to take care of men's teeth of Co. "B", then
holding the front on the left bank. Getting his field equipment together and using cabin as
his office, he was able to care for twenty men. All to be evacuated were walking cases. Very
dark and mud twelve inches deep. Officially reported that Bolos were coming around the rear
that night. We arrived tired, but safely, where the boat was waiting and returned eight miles
through ice. Waited until morning before going farther and at daybreak started for Chamova.
Stopped there while dentist cared for several Co. "D" men. Finally reached Beresnik after being
stuck on sand bars many times, as river was very shallow at that time of the year and channel
variable. Handed patients over and spent night at Field Hospital 337.

Following day found it necessary to be deloused. We had nothing but Serbian barrels for clothing
disinfectors at that time. Reported that a thresh delouser had been started for Beresnik. Sanitation
greatly improved.

After a few days' rest and arranging with engineers to make ambulance sled, started again on
tug "Archangel" for Dvina front. On the way only one hour when boat ran aground, and after
two hours' work (pushing with poles by all on board) we succeeded getting into channel and
anchored for the night.

Started again at daybreak and stopped at Chamova. "D" Company 339th Infantry at that place
with one medical enlisted man, who had taken three years in medicine. The only man with medical
knowledge available. He had established an aid station with two stretchers for beds. Place
comfortable and clean. General sanitation and billeting the same as in all other Russian villages.

Reached Pless and left some medical stores with Capt. Watson, then proceeded to Toulgas with
medical and Red Cross supplies. On way to headquarters a few stray shots were fired by snipers,
but no harm done.

Left medical and Red Cross supplies at Lower Toulgas and took aboard eight sick and wounded
troops. Started for Beresnik. Stopped at Chamova to pick up one sick and one wounded American.

Arrived at Beresnik Nov. 8th. With medical and Red Cross supplies left for Shenkursk on hospital
ship "Currier." Natives very friendly along the Vaga River and anxious to barter. Arrived at
Shenkursk Nov. 11th.

Over one hundred patients in hospital. Officers had taken over an additional building for contagious
ward which was full of "flu" and pneumonia cases. With every caution against the spread of
the disease, the epidemic was growing. Russian soldier seems to have no resistance, probably
due to the lack of proper kind of food for the last four years. Seven at hospital morgue at
one time, before we could get coffins made. People were dying by hundreds in the neighboring
villages. Found it necessary to try and organize medical assistance in order to combat the
epidemic. Funerals of three or four passed wailing through the streets every few hours.

The Russian funeral at Shenkursk was as follows: Corpse is carried out in the open on the lid
of the coffin, face exposed, and a yellow robe (used for every funeral) is thrown over the
body. The body is then carried to the church where there is little or no ventilation except
when the doors are opened. Here during the chants every member of the funeral party, at different
times during the service, proceeds to kiss the same spot on an image, held by the priest. It
is their belief that during a religious service it is impossible to contract disease.

Visited civilian hospitals Nov. 16th, which were in a most horrible state. No ventilation and
practically all with Spanish influenza and, in addition, many with gangrenous wounds. Tried
to enlighten the Russian doctor in charge with the fact that fresh air would be beneficial
to his cases. But he seemed to think I was entirely out of my sphere and ignored what I said.
I reported the situation to British headquarters and thereafter he reluctantly did as I suggested.
Then arranged with headquarters to send Russian medical officer and felchers with American
medical officers out to villages where assistance was needed most, instructing each to impress
on the natives the necessity of fresh air and proper hygiene. They found there was such a shortage
of the proper kind of food that the people had no resistance against disease, and were dying
by the hundreds. In the meantime established annex to civilian hospital in a school building.
Had wooden beds made and placed felchers in charge.

Tried to segregate cases in Shenkursk and immediate vicinity as much as possible. After getting
everything in working order I found a shortage of doctors. So I proceeded to villages not yet
reached by others. Report from Ust Padenga that Lieut. Cuff and fourteen enlisted men killed
or missing on patrol Nov. 29th; some of the bodies recovered.

Weather growing colder. Twenty degrees below zero, with snow four inches deep. Evacuated sick
and wounded from Ust Padenga eighteen versts beyond Shenkursk in sleds filled with hay and
blankets necessary for warmth. Shakleton shoes had not arrived at that time. Most cases coming
back in good condition, but pneumonia cases would not stand the exposure. Condition at Ust
Padenga very uncertain. Lieut. Powers and Lieut. Taufanoff in charge of ten-bed detention hospital.
Advised them to keep their hospital clear for an emergency.

Action reported on Dvina and hospital captured; later retaken. Slight action every day or so
at Ust Padenga. Lieut. Powers caring for all civilians in and around that place. Visited one
home where I found the father sick and in adjoining room the corpse of his wife and two children.
In another village I found twenty-four sick in four families; eight of which were pneumonia
cases. In one peasant home, six in family, all sick with a child of eight years running a fever,
but trying to care for others. All sleeping in the same room; three on the floor and balance
together in a loft made by laying boards between the sills. They informed me that no food had
been cooked for them for three days. The child eight years old was then trying to make some
tea. This same room was used as a dining room and kitchen. It had double windows, all sealed
air-tight.

Russian troops very difficult to discipline along sanitary or hygienic lines and have no idea
of cleanliness. A guard on the latrine was an absolute necessity. I adopted this plan in hospital,
but impossible to get their officers to follow this rule at their barracks latrines. Reported
it to British headquarters but they stated that they could not do anything.

Dec. 8th, 1918. Left by sled for Ust Padenga to inspect hospital. Arrived at 11:00 a.m. Very
cold day. General conditions very good considering circumstances. Using pits out in open for
latrines. Men living in double-decker beds, and as comfortable as possible in the available
billets. Hospital consisted of two rooms in a log hut, but light, dry and comfortable. Beds
improvised with stretchers laid across wooden horses. Had three casualties which they were
evacuating that day.

Started for Shenkursk at 3:00 p.m. Began snowing and my driver proceeded in circles leaving
the horse go as he chose. A Russian custom when they lose their bearings. I got somewhat anxious
and had been trying to inquire with the few Russian terms I had been forced to learn. Driver
stated that he did not know the way, and we ran into snow drifts, into gullies, over bluffs,
through bushes, and after floundering around in the snow for six hours I heard the bugle from
Shenkursk which was just across the river. I then started the direction which I thought was
up the river and by good luck, ran into the road that led across the Vaga to Shenkursk.

December 12th, 1918. Hospital inspected by Major Fitzpatrick of American Red Cross.

December 14th, 1918. Left Shenkursk for Shegovari where Lieut. Goodnight and 337th Ambulance
men were running a detention hospital of eight beds and infirmary for American platoon, stationed
at that place which is forty versts down Vaga river from Shenkursk toward Beresnik, where we
arrived at 6:00 p.m. Looked over his hospital and continued on to Kitsa. Remained over night
and left at daylight December 15th, going across Vaga through woods to Chamova, arriving at
noon. Very cold day.

Here given a team of horses and proceeded to Toulgas, the farthest Dvina front. Found small
hospital with several sick at Lower Toulgas in charge of British medical officer. Stayed over
night at headquarters two versts further up the river. The following day some artillery firing.
Proceeded to front line dressing station in charge of Lieut. Christie and ten 337th Ambulance
men. One from advance headquarters on left bank, British holding front. One company of Americans
and one of Scots on right bank. Stopped at Shushuga on return, eight versts from Toulgas. Across
the river from this place is Pless where an evacuation hospital was conducted by Capt. Watson,
R. A. M. C., with fourteen British and one American Ambulance man, used as a cook and interpreter.
Stretchers used for beds. Casualties held here for two or three days and evacuated by sled
to Beresnik about fifty versts to the rear. At Shushuga there were two Ambulance men conducting
a first aid station. Village held by one platoon of Americans.

Returned to Beresnik making a change of horses at Chamova and Ust Vaga. The latter place held
by twenty-eight American engineers and about one hundred Russians. First aid given by a Russian
felcher.

Inspected wards, kitchen, food, etc. Found there was no complaint as to treatment received.
December 16th, 1918. With rations for five days left for Archangel by sleigh, making a change
of horses about every twenty versts. Arrived at Archangel at 2:00 p.m., December 23, 1918.

XII

Armistice Day With Americans In North Russia

"B" And "D" Busy With Attacking Bolos--"L" Vigilantly Holding Front Near Kodish--Quiet On Other
Fronts--Engineers Building Blockhouses With Willing Assistance Of Doughboys--How Was Our Little
War Affected--"We're Here Because We're Here"--No Share In Victory Shouting--"F" On Lines Of
Communication.

Armistice Day, November 11th, 1918, with American soldiers in North Russia, was a day of stern
activity for continued war. A great thrill of pride possessed the entire force because the
Yanks on the Western Front had been in at the death of Hun militarism. The wonderful drives
of our armies under Pershing which crushed in the Hindenberg Lines, one after another, had
been briefly wirelessed and cabled up to Russia. We got the joyful news in Archangel on the
very day the fighting ceased on the Western Front.

But the "B" and "D" Company men were too busy on Armistice Day to listen to rumors of world
peace. The Reds had staged that awful four-day battle, told next in this story, and the American
medical and hospital men were sadly busy with thirty bleeding and dead comrades who had fallen
in defending Toulgas. "C" was far out at Ust Padenga earnestly building blockhouses. "A" was
at Shenkursk with Colonel Corbley, resting after two months stiff fighting and with American
Engineers of the 310th building blockhouses. For they correctly suspected that the Reds would
not quit just because of the collapse of the Germans.

"L" Company and Ballard's Machine Gun platoon were hourly prepared to fight for their position
at the Emtsa River against the Red force flushed with the victorious recapture of Kodish. 310th
Engineers were skillfully and heartily at work on the blockhouses and gun emplacements and
log shelters for this Kodish force, doomed to a desperate winter, armistice or no armistice.
Old "K" Company, breathless yet from its terrific struggle to hold Kodish, was back at base
headquarters at Seletskoe waiting patiently for "E" Company to relieve them.

Captain Heil's company had left Archangel by railroad and was somewhere on the cold forest
trail between Obozerskaya and Seletskoe.

"F" Company, as we have seen, was now on the precious lines of communication, now more subject
to attack because of the numerous winter trails across the hitherto broad, impassable expanses
of forest and swamp, which were now beginning to freeze up. Far out on their left flank and
to their rear was the little force of "G" Company who were holding Pinega and a long sector
of road which was daily becoming more difficult to safeguard. And hundreds of miles across
this state of Archangel in the Onega Valley our "H" Company comrades felt the responsibility
of wiring in themselves for a last ditch stand against the Reds who might try to drive them
back and flank their American and Allied comrades on the railroad.

On the railroad the 3l0th Engineers were busy as beavers building, with the assistance of the
infantrymen, blockhouses and barracks and gun emplacements and so forth. For, while the advanced
positions on the railroad were of no value in themselves, it was necessary to hold them for
the sake of the other columns. Obozerskaya was to be the depot and sleigh transportation point
of most consequence next to Seletskoe, which itself in winter was greatly dependent on Obozerskaya.

"I" and "M" Companies were resting from the hard fall offensive movement, the former unit at
Obozerskaya, the latter just setting foot for the first time in Archangel for a ten day rest,
the company having gone directly from troopship to troop train and having been "shock troops"
in everyone of the successive drives at the Red army positions.

In Archangel "Hq." Company units were assisting Machine Gun units in guarding important public
works and marching in strength occasionally on the streets to glare down the scowling sailors
and other Red sympathizers who, it was rumored persistently, were plotting a riot and overthrow
of the Tchaikowsky government and throat-cutting for the Allied Embassies and military missions.

Oh, Armistice Day in Archangel made peace in our strange war no nearer. It was dark foreboding
of the winter campaign that filled the thoughts of the doughboy on duty or lying in the hospital
in Archangel that day. Out on the various fronts the American soldiers grimly understood that
they must hold on where they were for the sake of their comrades on other distant but nevertheless
cotangent fronts on the circular line that guard Archangel. In Archangel the bitter realization
was at last accepted that no more American troops were to come to our assistance.

Of course every place where two American soldiers or officers exchanged words on Armistice
Day, or the immediate days following, the chief topic of conversation was the possible effect
of the armistice upon our little war. Vainly the scant telegraphic news was studied for any
reference to the Russian situation in the Archangel area. Was our unofficial war on Russia's
Red government to go on? How could armistice terms be extended to it without a tacit recognition
of the Lenine-Trotsky government?

As one of the boys who was upon the Dvina front writes: "We would have given anything we owned
and mortgaged our every expectation to have been one of that great delirious, riotous mob that
surged over Paris on Armistice Day; and we thought we had something of a title to have been
there for we claimed the army of Pershing for our own, even though we had been sent to the
Arctic Circle; and now that the whole show was over we wanted to have our share in the shouting."

But the days, deadly and monotonous, followed one another with ever gloomy regularity, and
there was no promise of relief, no word, no news of any kind, except the stories of troops
returning home from France. Doubtless in the general hilarity over peace, we were forgotten.
After all, who had time in these world stirring days to think of an insignificant regiment
performing in a fantastic Arctic side show.

Truth to tell, the Red propagandists on Trotsky's Northern Army staff quickly seized the opportunity
to tell the Allied troops in North Russia that the war was over and asked us what we were fighting
for. They did it cleverly, as will be told elsewhere. Yet the doughboy only swore softly and
shined his rifle barrel. He could not get information straight from home. He was sore. But
why fret? His best answer was the philosophic "We're here because we're here" and he went on
building blockhouses and preparing to do his best to save his life in the inevitable winter
campaign which began (we may say) about the time of the great world war Armistice Day, which
in North Russia did not mean cease firing.

Before passing to the story of the dark winter's fighting we must notice one remaining unit
of the American forces, hitherto only mentioned. It is the unit that after doing tedious guard
duty in Archangel and its suburbs for a couple of months, all the while listening impatiently
to stories of adventure and hardship and heroism filtering in from the fronts and the highly
imaginative stories of impending enemy smashes and atrocities rumoring in from those same fronts
and gaining color and tragic proportions in the mouth-to-mouth transit, that unit "F" Company,
the prize drill company of Camp Custer in its young life, now on October 30th found itself
on a slow-going barge en route to Yemetskoe, one hundred and twenty-five versts, as the side
wheeler wheezed up the meandering old Dvina River.

There in the last days of the fall season this company of Americans took over the duty of patrolling
constantly the line of communications and all trails leading into it so that no wandering force
of Red Guards should capture any of the numerous supply trains bound south with food, powder
and comforts--such as they were--for the Americans and Allied forces far south on the Dvina
and Vaga fronts.

It was highly important work admirably done by this outfit commanded by Captain Ralph Ramsay.
Any slackening of alertness might have resulted disastrously to their regimental comrades away
south, and while this outfit was the last of the 339th to go into active field service it may
be said in passing that in the spring it was the last unit to come away from the fighting front
in June, and came with a gallant record, story of which will appear later. Winter blizzards
found the outfit broken into trusty detachments scattered all the way from Kholmogori, ninety
versts north of Yemetskoe, to Morjegorskaya, fifty-five versts south of company headquarters
in Yemetskoe. And it was common occurrence for a sergeant of "F" Company with a "handful of
doughboys" to escort a mob of Bolshevik prisoners of war to distant Archangel.

XIII

WINTER DEFENSE OF TOULGAS

General Ironside Makes Expedition Aim Defensive--Bolsheviki Help Give It Character--Toulgas--Surprise
Attack Nov. 11th By Reds--Canadian Artillery Escapes Capture--We Win Back Our Positions--"Lady
Olga" Saves Wounded Men--Heroic Wallace--Cudahy And Derham Carry Upper Toulgas By Assault--Foukes--A
Jubilant Bonfire--Many Prisoners--Ivan Puzzled By Our War--Bolo Attack In January Fails--Dresing
Nearly Takes Prisoner--Winter Patrolling--Corporal Prince's Patrol Ambushed--We Hold Toulgas.

General Ironside had now taken over command of the expedition and changed its character more
to accord with the stated purpose of it. We were on the defensive. The Bolshevik whose frantic
rear-guard actions during the fall campaign had often been given up, even when he was really
having the best of it, merely because he always interpreted the persistence of American attack
or stubbornness of defense to mean superior force. He had learned that the North Russian Expeditionary
Force was really a pitifully small force, and that there was so much fussing at home in England
and France and America about the justice and the methods of the expedition, that no large reinforcements
need be expected. So the Bolsheviks on Armistice Day, November 11, began their counter offensive
movement which was to merge with their heavy winter campaign. So the battle of November 11th
is included in the narrative of the winter defense of Toulgas.

Toulgas was the duplicate of thousands of similar villages throughout this province. It consisted
of a group of low, dirty log houses huddled together on a hill, sloping down to a broad plain,
where was located another group of houses, known as Upper Toulgas. A small stream flowed between
the two villages and nearly a mile to the rear was another group of buildings which was used
for a hospital and where first aid was given to the wounded before evacuating them to Bereznik,
forty or fifty miles down the river.

The forces engaged in the defense of this position consisted of several batteries of Canadian
artillery, posted midway between the hospital and the main village. In addition to this "B"
Company, American troops, and another company of Royal Scots were scattered in and about these
positions. From the upper village back to the hospital stretched a good three miles, which
of course meant that the troops in this position, numbering not more than five hundred were
considerably scattered and separated. This detailed description of our position here is set
forth so specifically in order that the reader may appreciate the attack which occurred during
the early part of November.

On the morning of November 11th, while some of the men were still engaged in eating their breakfasts
and while the positions were only about half manned, suddenly from the forests surrounding
the upper village, the enemy emerged in attack formation. Lieut. Dennis engaged them for a
short time and withdrew to our main line of defense. All hands were immediately mustered into
position to repel this advancing wave of infantry. In the meantime the Bolo attacked with about
five hundred men from our rear, having made a three day march through what had been reported
as impassable swamp. He occupied our rearmost village, which was undefended, and attacked our
hospital. This forward attack was merely a ruse to divert the attention of our troops in that
direction, while the enemy directed his main assault at our rear and undefended positions for
the purpose of gaining our artillery. Hundreds of the enemy appeared as if by magic from the
forests, swarmed in upon the hospital village and immediately took possession. Immediately
the hospital village was in their hands, the Bolo then commenced a desperate advance upon our guns.

At the moment that this advance began, there were some sixty Canadian artillery men and one
Company "B" sergeant with seven men and a Lewis gun. Due to the heroism and coolness of this
handful of men, who at once opened fire with their Lewis guns, forcing the advancing infantry
to pause momentarily. This brief halt gave the Canadians a chance to reverse their gun positions,
swing them around and open up with muzzle bursts upon the first wave of the assault, scarcely
fifty yards away. It was but a moment until the hurricane of shrapnel was bursting among solid
masses of advancing infantry, and under such murderous fire, the best disciplined troops and
the most foolhardly could not long withstand. Certain it was that the advancing Bolo could
not continue his advance. The Bolos were on our front, our right flank and our rear, we were
entirely cut off from communication, and there were no reinforcements available. About 4:00
p. m. we launched a small counter attack under Lt. Dennis, which rolled up a line of snipers
which had given us considerable annoyance. We then shelled the rear villages occupied by the
Bolos, and they decamped. Meanwhile the Royal Scots, who had been formed for the counter attack,
went forward also under the cover of the artillery, and the Bolo, or at least those few remaining,
were driven back into the forests.

The enemy losses during this attack were enormous. His estimated dead and wounded were approximately
four hundred, but it will never be known as to how many of them later died in the surrounding
forests from wounds and exposure. This engagement was not [only] disastrous from the loss of
men, but was even more disastrous from the fact that some of the leading Bolshevik leaders
on this front were killed during this engagement. One of the leading commanders was an extremely
powerful giant of a man, named Melochofski, who first led his troops into the village hospital
in the rear of the gun positions. He strode into the hospital, wearing a huge black fur hat,
which accentuated his extraordinary height, and singled out all the wounded American and English
troops for immediate execution, and this would undoubtedly have been their fate, had it not
been for the interference of a most remarkable woman, who was christened by the soldiers "Lady
Olga."

This woman, a striking and intelligent appearing person, had formerly been a member of the
famous Battalion of Death, and afterwards informed one of our interpreters that she had joined
the Soviets out of pure love of adventure, wholly indifferent to the cause for which she exposed
her life. She had fallen in love with Melochofski and had accompanied him with his troops through
the trackless woods, sharing the lot of the common soldiers and enduring hardships that would
have shaken the most vigorous man. With all her hardihood, however, there was still a touch
of the eternal feminine, and when Melochofski issued orders for the slaughter of the invalided
soldiers, she rushed forward and in no uncertain tones demanded that the order be countermanded
and threatened to shoot the first Bolo who entered the hospital. She herself remained in the
hospital while Melochofski with the balance of his troops went forward with the attack and
where he himself was so mortally wounded that he lived only a few minutes after reaching her
side. She eventually was sent to the hospital at the base and nursed there. Capt. Boyd states
that he saw a letter which she wrote, unsolicited, to her former comrades, telling them that
they should not believe the lies which their commissars told them, and that the Allies were
fighting for the good of Russia.

At daybreak the following day, five gun boats appeared around the bend of the river, just out
of range of our three inch artillery, and all day long their ten long ranged guns pounded away
at our positions, crashing great explosives upon our blockhouse, which guarded the bridge connecting
the upper and middle village, while in the forests surrounding this position the Bolo infantry
were lying in wait awaiting for a direct hit upon this strong point in order that they could
rush the bridge and overwhelm us. Time after time exploding shells threw huge mounds of earth
and debris into the loop holes of this blockhouse and all but demolished it.

Here Sergeant Wallace performed a particularly brave act. The blockhouse of which he was in
command was near a large straw pile. A shell hit near the straw and threw it in front of the
loop holes. Wallace went out under machine gun fire from close range, about seventy-five yards,
and under heavy shelling, and removed the straw. The same thing happened a little later, and
this time he was severely wounded. He was awarded the Distinguished Conduct Medal by the British.
Private Bell was in this blockhouse when it was hit and all the occupants killed or badly wounded.
Bell was badly gashed in the face, but stuck with his Lewis gun until dark when he could be
relieved, being the only one in the shattered blockhouse which held the bridge across the small
stream separating us from the Bolos.

For three days the gun boats pounded away and all night long there was the rattle and crack
of the machine guns. No one slept. The little garrison was fast becoming exhausted. Men were
hollow-eyed from weariness and so utterly tired that they were indifferent to the shrieking
shells and all else. At this point of the siege, it was decided that our only salvation was
a counter attack. In the forests near the upper village were a number of log huts, which the
natives had used for charcoal kilns, but which had been converted by the enemy into observation
posts and storehouses for machine guns and ammunition. His troops were lying in and about the
woods surrounding these buildings. We decided to surprise this detachment in the woods, capture
it if possible and make a great demonstration of an attack so as to give the enemy in the upper
village the impression that we were receiving reinforcements and still fresh and ready for
fighting. This maneuver succeeded far beyond our wildest expectations.

Company "B," under command of Lt. John Cudahy, and one platoon of Company "D" under Lt. Derham,
made the counter attack on the Bolo trenches. Just before dawn that morning the Americans filed
through the forests and crept upon the enemy's observation posts before they were aware of
any movement on our part. We then proceeded without any warning upon their main position. Taken
as they were, completely by surprise, it was but a moment before they were in full rout, running
panic-stricken in all directions, thinking that a regiment or division had followed upon them.
We immediately set fire to these huts containing their ammunition, cartridges, etc., and the
subsequent explosion that followed probably gave the enemy the impression that a terrific attack
was pending. As we emerged from the woods and commenced the attack upon upper Toulgas we were
fully expecting stiff resistance, for we knew that many of these houses concealed enemy guns.
Our plans had succeeded so well, however, that no supporting fire from the upper village came
and the snipers in the forward part of the village seeing themselves abandoned, threw their
guns and came rushing forward shouting "tovarish, tovarish," meaning the same as the German
"kamerad." As a matter of fact, in this motley crew of prisoners were a number of Germans and
Austrians, who could scarcely speak a word of German and who were probably more than thankful
to be taken prisoners and thus be relieved from active warfare.

During this maneuver one of their bravest and ablest commanders, by the name of Foukes, was
killed, which was an irreparable loss to the enemy. Foukes was without question one of the
most competent and aggressive of the Bolo leaders. He was a very powerful man physically and
had long years of service as a private in the old Russian Army, and was without question a
most able leader of men. During this four days' attack and counter attack he had led his men
by a circuitous route through the forests, wading in swamps waist deep, carrying machine guns
and rations. The nights were of course miserably cold and considerable snow had fallen, but
Foukes would risk no fire of any kind for fear of discovery. It was not due to any lack of
ability or strategy on his part that this well planned attack failed of accomplishment. On
his body we found a dramatic message, written on the second day of the battle after the assault
on the guns had failed. He was with the rear forces at that time and dispatched or had intended
to dispatch the following to the command in charge of the forward forces:

  "We are in the two lowest villages--one steamer coming up
  river--perhaps reinforcements. Attack more vigorously--Melochofski and
  Murafski are killed. If you do not attack, I cannot hold on and
  retreat is impossible. (Signed) FOUKES."

Out of our force of about six hundred Scots and Americans we had about a hundred casualties,
the Scots suffering worse than we. Our casualties were mostly sustained in the blockhouses,
from the shelling. It was here that we lost Corporal Sabada and Sergeant Marriott, both of
whom were fine soldiers and their loss was very keenly felt. Sabada's dying words were instructions
to his squad to hold their position in the rear of their blockhouse which had been destroyed.

It was reported that Trotsky, the idol of the Red crowd, was present at the battle of Toulgas,
but if he was there, he had little influence in checking the riotous retreat of his followers
when they thought themselves flanked from the woods. They fled in wild disorder from the upper
village of Toulgas and for days thereafter in villages far to our rear, various members of
this force straggled in, half crazed by starvation and exposure and more than willing to abandon
the Soviet cause. For weeks the enemy left the Americans severely alone. Toulgas was held.

But it was decided to burn Upper Toulgas, which was a constant menace to our security, as we
had no men to occupy it with sufficient numbers to make a defense and the small outposts there
were tempting morsels for the enemy to devour. Many were reluctant to stay there, and it was
nervous work on the black nights when the wind, dismal and weird, moaned through the encompassing
forest, every shadow a crouching Bolshevik. Often the order came through to the main village
to "stand to," because some fidgety sentinel in Upper Toulgas had seen battalions, conjured
by the black night. So it was determined to burn the upper village and a guard was thrown around
it, for we feared word would be passed and the Bolos would try to prevent us from accomplishing
our purpose. The inhabitants were given three hours to vacate. It was a pitiful sight to see
them turned out of the dwellings where most of them had spent their whole simple, not unhappy
lives, their meagre possessions scattered awry upon the ground.

The first snow floated down from a dark foreboding sky, dread announcer of a cruel Arctic winter.
Soon the houses were roaring flames. The women sat upon hand-fashioned crates wherein were
all their most prized household goods, and abandoned themselves to a paroxysm of weeping despair,
while the children shrieked stridently, victim of all the realistic horrors that only childhood
can conjure. Most of the men looked on in silence, uncomprehending resignation on their faces,
mute, pathetic figures. Poor moujiks! They didn't understand, but they took all uncomplainingly.
Nitchevoo, fate had decreed that they should suffer this burden, and so they accepted it without
question.

But when we thought of the brave chaps whose lives had been taken from those flaming homes,
for our casualties had been very heavy, nearly one hundred men killed and wounded, we stifled
our compassion and looked on the blazing scene as a jubilant bonfire. All night long the burning
village was red against the black sky, and in the morning where had stood Upper Toulgas was
now a smoking, dirty smudge upon the plain.

We took many prisoners in this second fight of Toulgas. It was a trick of the Bolos to sham
death until a searching party, bent on examining the bodies for information, would approach
them, when suddenly they would spring to life and deliver themselves up. These said that only
by this method could they escape the tyranny of the Bolsheviki. They declared that never had
they any sympathy with the Soviet cause. They didn't understand it. They had been forced into
the Red Army at the point of a gun, and were kept in it by the same persuasive argument. Others
said they had joined the Bolshevik military forces to escape starvation.

There was only one of the thirty prisoners who admitted being an ardent follower of the cause,
and a believer in the Soviet articles of political doctrine, and this was an admission that
took a great deal of courage, for it was instilled universally in the Bolos that we showed
no mercy, and if they fell into the hands of the cruel Angliskis and Americanskis there was
nothing but a hideous death for them.

Of course our High Command had tried to feed our troops the same kind of propaganda. Lenine,
himself, said that of every one hundred Bolsheviks fifty were knaves, forty were fools, and
probably one in the hundred a sincere believer. Once a Bolshevik commander who gave himself
up to us said that the great majority of officers in the Soviet forces had been conscripted
from the Imperial Army and were kept in order by threats to massacre their families if they
showed the slightest tendency towards desertion. The same officer told me the Bolshevik party
was hopelessly in the minority, that its adherents numbered only about three and a half in
every hundred Russians, that it had gained ascendancy and held power only because Lenine and
Trotsky inaugurated their revolution by seizing every machine gun in Russia and steadfastly
holding on to them. He said that every respectable person looked upon the Bolsheviks as a gang
of cutthroats and ruffians, but all were bullied into passive submission.

We heard him wonderingly. We tried to fancy America ever being brow-beaten and cowed by an
insignificant minority, her commercial life prostrated, her industries ravished, and we gave
the speculation up as an unworthy reflection upon our country. But this was Russia, Russia
who inspired the world by her courage and fortitude in the great war, and while it was at its
most critical stage, fresh with the memories of millions slain on Gallician fields, concluded
the shameful treaty of Brest Litovsk, betraying everything for which those millions had died.
Russia, following the visionary Kerensky from disorder to chaos, and eventually wallowing in
the mire of Bolshevism. Yes, one can expect anything in Russia.

They were a hardboiled looking lot, those Bolo prisoners. They wore no regulation uniform,
but were clad in much the same attire as an ordinary moujik--knee leather boots and high hats
of gray and black curled fur. No one could distinguish them from a distance, and every peasant
could be Bolshevik. Who knew? In fact, we had reason to believe that many of them were Bolshevik
in sympathy. The Bolos had an uncanny knowledge of our strength and the state of our defenses,
and although no one except soldiers were allowed beyond the village we knew that despite the
closest vigilance there was working unceasingly a system of enemy espionage with which we could
never hope to cope.

Some of the prisoners were mere boys seventeen and eighteen years old. Others men of advanced
years. Nearly all of them were hopelessly ignorant, likely material for a fiery tongued orator
and plausible propagandist. They thought the Americans were supporting the British in an invasion
of Russia to suppress all democratic government, and to return a Romanoff to the throne.

That was the story that was given out to the moujiks, and, of course, they firmly believed
it, and after all why should they not, judging by appearances? We quote here from an American
officer who fought at Toulgas:

  "If we had not come to restore the Tsar, why had we come, invading
  Russia, and burning Russian homes? We spoke conciliatingly of
  'friendly intervention,' of bringing peace and order to this
  distracted country, to the poor moujik, when what he saw were his
  villages a torn battle ground of two contending armies, while the one
  had forced itself upon him, requisitioned his shaggy pony, burned the
  roof over his head, and did whatever military necessity dictated. It
  was small concern to Ivan whether the Allies or the Bolsheviks won
  this strange war. He did not know what it was all about, and in that
  he was like the rest of us. But he asked only to be left alone, in
  peace to lead his simple life, gathering his scanty crops in the hot
  brief months of summer and dreaming away the long dreary winter on top
  of his great oven-like stove, an unworrying fatalistic disciple of the
  philosophy of nitchevoo."

After the fierce battle to hold Toulgas, the only contact with the enemy was by patrols. "D"
Company came up from Chamova and relieved "B" Company for a month. Work was constantly expended
upon the winter defenses. The detachment of 310th Engineers was to our men an invaluable aid.
And when "B" went up to Toulgas again late in January, they found the fortifications in fine
shape. But meanwhile rumors were coming in persistently of an impending attack.

The Bolo made his long expected night attack January 29, in conjunction with his drive on the
Vaga, and was easily repulsed. Another similar attack was made a little later in February,
which met with a similar result. It was reported to us that the Bolo soldiers held a meeting
in which they declared that it was impossible to take Toulgas, and that they would shoot any
officer who ordered another attack there.

It was during one of the fracases that Lt. Dressing captured his prisoner. With a sergeant
he was inspecting the wire, shortly after the Bolo had been driven back, and came upon a Bolo
who threw up his hands. Dressing drew his revolver, and the sergeant brought his rifle down
to a threatening position, the Bolo became frightened and seized the bayonet. Dressing wishing
to take the prisoner alive grabbed his revolver by the barrel and aimed a mighty swing. Unfortunately
he forgot that the British revolver is fastened to a lanyard, and that the lanyard was around
his shoulder. As a result his swing was stopped in midair, nearly breaking his arm, the Bolo
dropped the bayonet and took it on the run, getting away safely, leaving Dressing with nothing
to bring in but a report.

March 1st we met with a disaster, one of our patrols being ambushed, and a platoon sent out
to recover the wounded meeting a largely superior force, which was finally dispersed by artillery.
We lost eight killed and more wounded. Sergeant Bowman, one of the finest men it has been my
privilege to know, was killed in this action and his death was a blow personally to every man
in the company.

Corporal Prince was in command of the first patrol, which was ambushed. In trying to assist
the point, who was wounded, Prince was hit. When we finally reached the place of this encounter
the snow showed that Prince had crawled about forty yards after he was wounded and fired his
rifle several times. He had been taken prisoner.

From this time on the fighting in the Upper Dvina was limited to the mere patrol activities.
There to be sure was always a strain on the men. Remembering their comrades who had been ambushed
before, it took the sturdiest brand of courage for small parties to go out day and night on
the hard packed trails, to pass like deer along a marked runway with hunter ready with cocked
rifle. The odds were hopelessly against them. The vigilance of their patrols, however, may
account for the fact that even after his great success on the Vaga, the commander of Bolshevik
Northern Army did not send his forces against the formidably guarded Toulgas.

