'Style' and 'stiletto' would, from their significations, appear to be radically very different
words; and yet they are something more akin than even cousins-german. 'Style' is known to be
from the [Greek: stylos], or stylus, which the Greeks and Romans employed in writing on their
waxen tablets; and, as they were both sharp and strong, they became in the hands of scholars
quite formidable instruments when used against their schoolmasters. Afterward they came to
be employed in all the bloody relations and uses to which a 'bare bodkin' can be put, and hence
our acceptation of 'stiletto.' Cæsar himself, it is supposed, got his 'quietus' by means of
a 'stylus;' nor is he the first or last character whose 'style' has been his (literary, if
not literal) damnation.

'Volume,' too, how perfectly metaphorical is it in its present reception! It is originally
just a volumen, that is, a 'roll' of parchment, papyrus, or whatever else the 'book' (i. e.,
the bark--the 'liber') might be composed of. Nor can we regard as aught other such terms as
'leaf' or 'folio,' which is also 'leaf.' 'Stave,' too, is suggestive of the staff on which
the runes were wont to be cut. Indeed, old almanacs are sometimes to be met with consisting
of these long sticks or 'staves,' on which the days and months are represented by the Runic
letters.

'Charm,' 'enchant,' and 'incantation' all owe their origin to the time when spells were in
vogue. 'Charm' is just carmen, from the fact that 'a kind of Runic rhyme' was employed in diablerie
of this sort; so 'enchant' and 'incantation' are but a singing to--a true 'siren's song;' while
'fascination' took its rise when the mystic terrors of the evil eye threw its withering blight
over many a heart.

We are all familiar with the old fable of The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse. We will vouch
that the following read us as luminous a comment thereon as may be desired: 'Polite,' 'urbane,'
'civil,' 'rustic,' 'villain,' 'savage,' 'pagan,' 'heathen.' Let us seek the moral:

'Polite,' 'urbane,' and 'civil' we of course recognize as being respectively from [Greek: polis],
urbs, and civis, each denoting the city or town--la grande ville. 'Polite' is city-like; while
'urbanity' and 'civility' carry nothing deeper with them than the graces and the attentions
that belong to the punctilious town. 'Rustic' we note as implying nothing more uncultivated
than a 'peasant,' which is just pays-an, or, as we also say, a 'countryman.' 'Savage,' too,
or, as we ought to write it, salvage,[9] is nothing more grim or terrible than one who dwells
in sylvis, in the woods--a meaning we can appreciate from our still comparatively pure application
of the adjective sylvan. A 'backwoodsman' is therefore the very best original type of a savage!
'Savage' seems to be hesitating between its civil and its ethical applications; 'villain,'
'pagan,' and 'heathen,' however, have become quite absorbed in their moral sense--and this
by a contortion that would seem strange enough were we not constantly accustomed to such transgressions.
For we need not to be informed that 'villain' primarily and properly implies simply one who
inhabits a ville or village. In Chaucer, for example, we see it without at least any moral
signification attached thereto:

  'But firste I praie you of your curtesie
  That ye ne arette it not my vilanie.'

  Prologue to the Canterbury Tales.

So a 'pagan,' or paganus, is but a dweller in a pagus, or village; precisely equivalent to
the Greek [Greek: kômêtês], with no other idea whatever attached thereto; while 'heathen' imported
those who lived on the heaths or in the country, consequently far away from civilization or
town-like-ness.

From all of which expressions we may learn the mere conventionality and the utter arbitrariness
of even our most important ethical terms. How prodigiously cheap is the application of any
such epithets, considering the terrible abuse they have undergone! And how poor is that philosophy
that can concentrate 'politeness' and 'civility' in the frippery and heartlessness of mere
external city-forms; and convert the man who dwells in the woods or in the village into a savage
or a villain! How fearful a lack do these numerous words and their so prolific analogues manifest
of acknowledgment of that glorious principle which Burns has with fire-words given utterance
to--and to which, would we preserve the dignity of manhood, we must hold on--

  'A man's a man for a' that!'

Ah! it is veritably enough to make us atrabiliar! Here we see words in their weaknesses and
their meannesses, as elsewhere in their glory and beauty. And not so much their meanness and
weakness, as that of those who have distorted these innocent servants of truth to become tools
of falsehood and the abject instruments of the extinction of all honesty and nobleness.

The word 'health' wraps up in it--for, indeed, it is hardly metaphorical--a whole world of
thought and suggestion. It is that which healeth or maketh one to be whole, or, as the Scotch
say, hale; which whole or hale (for they are one word) may imply entireness or unity; that
is to say, perfect 'health' is that state of the system in which there is no disorganization--no
division of interest--but when it is recognized as a perfect one or whole; or, in other words,
not recognized at all. And this meaning is confirmed by our analogue sanity, which, from sanus,
and allied to [Greek: saos], has underneath it a similar basis.

Every student of Carlyle will remember the very telling use to which he puts the idea contained
in this word--speaking of the manifold relations of physical, psychal, and social health. Reference
is made to his employment of it in the 'Characteristics'--itself one of the most authentic
and veracious pieces of philosophy that it has been our lot to meet with for a long time; yet
wherein he proves the impossibility of any, and the uselessness of all philosophies. Listen
while he discourses thereon: 'So long as the several elements of life, all fitly adjusted,
can pour forth their movement like harmonious tuned strings, it is melody and unison: life,
from its mysterious fountains, flows out as in celestial music and diapason--which, also, like
that other music of the spheres, even because it is perennial and complete, without interruption
and without imperfection, might be fabled to escape the ear. Thus, too, in some languages,
is the state of health well denoted by a term expressing unity; when we feel ourselves as we
wish to be, we say that we are whole.'

But our psychal and social wholeness or health, as well as our physical, is yet, it would appear,
in the future, in the good time coming--

          'When man to man
  Shall brothers be and a' that!'

Even that, however, is encouraging--that it is in prospectu. For we know that right before
us lies this great promised land--this Future, teeming with all the donations of infinite time,
and bursting with blessings. And for us, too, there are in waiting [Greek: makarôn nêsoi],
or Islands of the Blest, where all heroic doers and all heroic sufferers shall enjoy rest forever!

In conclusion, take the benediction of serene old Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra, in his preface
to 'Don Quixote' (could we possibly have a better?): 'And so God give you health, not forgetting
me. Farewell!'

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: This alliance may be fanciful (though we observe some of the best German lexicographers
have it so); a better origin might, perhaps, be found in the Sanscrit mri, etc.]

[Footnote 2: 'Les Orientals,' par VICTOR HUGO. Le Feu du ciel.]

[Footnote 3: The 'by' may, however, have the force of going or passing, equivalent to 'fare'
in 'farewell,' or 'welfare,' i. e., may you have a good passage or journey.]

[Footnote 4: 'Past and Present,' pp. 128, 129.]

[Footnote 5: Compare with this the Latin mundus, which is exactly analogous in signification.]

[Footnote 6: En-voir.]

[Footnote 7: Perhaps nothing could better prove how profoundly religious were the Latins than
a word compounded of the above; namely 'profane.' A 'fanatic' was one who devoted himself to
the fanum or temple--'profane' is an object devoted to anything else 'pro'--instead of--the
'fanum,' or fane.]

[Footnote 8: The word is more properly oriental than Greek, e. g., Hebrew, pardes, and Sanscrit,
paradêsa.]

[Footnote 9: See the Italian setvaggio and the Spanish salvage, in which a more approximate
orthography has been retained.]

THE CHECH.

"Chcés li tajnou véc aneb pravdu vyzvédéti, blazen, dité, opily clovék o tom umeji povedeti."

  "Wouldst thou know a truth or mystery,
  A drunkard, fool, or child may tell it thee."

  Bohemian Proverb.

  And now I'll wrap my blanket o'er me,
    And on the tavern floor I'll lie;
  A double spirit-flask before me,
    And watch the pipe clouds melting die.

  They melt and die--but ever darken,
    As night comes on and hides the day;
  Till all is black;--then, brothers, hearken!
    And if ye can, write down my lay!

  In yon black loaf my knife is gleaming,
    Like one long sail above the boat;--
  --As once at Pesth I saw it beaming,
    Half through a curst Croatian throat.

  Now faster, faster whirls the ceiling,
    And wilder, wilder turns my brain;
  And still I'll drink--till, past all feeling,
    The soul leaps forth to light again.

  Whence come these white girls wreathing round me?
    Baruska!--long I thought thee dead!
  Kacenka!--when these arms last bound thee,
    Thou laidst by Rajhrad cold as lead!

  Alas!--I sink--my spirits miss me,
    I swim, I shoot from sky to shore!
  Klarà! thou golden sister--kiss me!
    I rise--I'm safe--I'm strong once more.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Against the waves fresh waves are dashing,
    Above the breeze fresh breezes blow;
  Through seas of light new light is flashing,
    And with them all I float and flow.

  But round me rings of fire are gleaming:
    Pale rings of fire--wild eyes of death!
  Why haunt me thus awake or dreaming?
    Methought I left ye with my breath.

  Aye glare and stare with life increasing,
    And leech-like eyebrows arching in;
  Be, if ye must, my fate unceasing,
    But never hope a fear to win.

  He who knows all may haunt the haunting,
    He who fears nought hath conquered fate;
  Who bears in silence quells the daunting,
    And sees his spoiler desolate.

  Oh wondrous eyes of star-like lustre,
    How ye have changed to guardian love!
  Alas!--where stars in myriads cluster
    Ye vanish in the heaven above.

       *       *       *       *       *

  I hear two bells so softly singing:
    How sweet their silver voices roll!
  The one on yonder hill is ringing,
    The other peals within my soul.

  I hear two maidens gently talking,
    Bohemian maidens fair to see;
  The one on yonder hill is walking,
    The other maiden--where is she?

  Where is she?--when the moonlight glistens
    O'er silent lake or murm'ring stream,
  I hear her call my soul which listens:
    'Oh! wake no more--come, love, and dream!'

  She came to earth-earth's loveliest creature;
    She died--and then was born once more;
  Changed was her race, and changed each feature,
    But oh! I loved her as before.

  We live--but still, when night has bound us
    In golden dreams too sweet to last,
  A wondrous light-blue world around us,
    She comes, the loved one of the Past.

  I know not which I love the dearest,
    For both my loves are still the same;
  The living to my heart is nearest,
    The dead love feeds the living flame.

  And when the moon, its rose-wine quaffing
    Which flows across the Eastern deep,
  Awakes us, Klarà chides me laughing,
    And says, 'We love too well in sleep!'

  And though no more a Vojvod's daughter,
    As when she lived on Earth before,
  The love is still the same which sought her,
    And she is true--what would you more?

         *       *       *       *       *

  Bright moonbeams on the sea are playing,
    And starlight shines o'er vale and hill;
  I should be gone--yet still delaying,
    By thy loved side I linger still!

  My gold is gone--my hopes have perished,
    And nought remains save love for thee!
  E'en that must fade, though once so cherished:
    Farewell!--and think no more of me!

  'Though gold be gone and hope departed,
    And nought remain save love for me,
  Thou ne'er shalt leave me broken-hearted,
    For I will share my life with thee!

  'Thou deem'st me but a wanton maiden,
    The plaything of thy idle hours;
  But laughing streams with gold are laden,
    And sweets are hidden 'neath the flowers.

  'E'en outcasts may have heart and feeling,
    E'en such as I be fond and true;
  And love, like light, in dungeons stealing,
    Though bars be there, will still burst through.'

PICTURES FROM THE NORTH.

It is worth while to live in the city, that we may learn to love the country; and it is not
bad for many, that artificial life binds them with bonds of silk or lace or rags or cobwebs,
since, when they are rent away, the Real gleams out in a beauty and with a zest which had not
been save for contrast.

Contrast is the salt of the beautiful. I wonder that the ancients, who came so near it in so
many ways, never made a goddess of Contrast. They had something like it in ever-varying Future--something
like it in double-faced Janus, who was their real 'Angel of the Odd.' Perhaps it is my ignorance
which is at fault--if so, I pray you correct me. The subtle Neo-Platonists must have apotheosized
such a savor to all æsthetic bliss. Mostly do I feel its charm when there come before me pictures
true to life of far lands and lives, of valley and river, sea and shore. Then I forget the
narrow office and the shop-lined street, the rattling cars and hurried hotel-lodgment, and
think what it would be if nature, in all her freshness and never-ending contrasts, could be
my ever-present.

I thought this yesterday, in glancing over an old manuscript in my drawer, containing translations,
by some hand to me unknown, of sketches of Sweden by the fairy-story teller Hans Christian
Andersen. Reader, will they strike you as pleasantly as they did me? I know not. Let us glance
them over. They have at least the full flavor of the North, of the healthy land of frost and
pines, of fragrant birch and of sweeter meadow-grass, and simpler, holier flowers than the
rich South ever showed, even in her simplest moods.

The first of these sketches sweeps us at once far away over the Northland:

     'WE JOURNEY.

     'It is spring, fragrant spring, the birds are singing. You do not
     understand their song? Then hear it in free translation:

     ''Seat thyself upon my back!' said the stork, the holy bird of our
     green island. 'I will carry thee over the waves of the Sound.
     Sweden also has its fresh, fragrant beechwoods, green meadows, and
     fields of waving corn; in Schoonen, under the blooming apple trees
     behind the peasant's house, thou wilt imagine thyself still in
     Denmark!'

     ''Fly with me,' said the swallow. 'I fly over Hal-land's mountain
     ridges, where the beeches cease. I soar farther toward the north
     than the stork. I will show you where the arable land retires
     before rocky valleys. You shall see friendly towns, old churches,
     solitary court yards, within which it is cosy and pleasant to
     dwell, where the family stands in circle around the table with the
     smoking platters, and asks a blessing through the mouth of the
     youngest child, and morning and evening sings a holy song. I have
     heard it, I have seen it, when I was yet small, from my nest under
     the roof.'

     ''Come! come!' cried the unsteady seagull, impatiently waiting, and
     ever flying round in a circle. 'Follow me into the Scheeren, where
     thousands of rocky islands, covered with pines and firs, lie along
     the coasts like flower beds; where the fisherman draws full nets!'

     ''Let yourself down between our outspread wings!' sing the wild
     swans. 'We will bear you to the great seas, to the ever-roaring,
     arrow-quick mountain streams, where the oak does not thrive and the
     birches are stunted; let yourself down between our outspread
     wings,--we soar high over Sulitelma, the eye of the island, as the
     mountain is called; we fly from the spring-green valley, over the
     snow waves, up to the summit of the mountain, whence you may catch
     a glimpse of the North Sea, beyond Norway. We fly toward Jamtland,
     with its high blue mountains, where the waterfalls roar, where the
     signal fires flame up as signs from coast to coast that they are
     waiting for the ferry boat--up to the deep, cold, hurrying floods,
     which do not see the sun set in midsummer, where twilight is dawn!'

     'So sing the birds! Shall we hearken to their song--follow them, at
     least a short way? We do not seat ourselves upon the wings of the
     swan, nor upon the back of the stork; we stride forward with steam
     and horses, sometimes upon our own feet, and glance, at the same
     time, now and then, from the actual, over the hedge into the
     kingdom of fancy, that is always our near neighborland, and pluck
     flowers or leaves, which shall be placed together in the memorandum
     book--they bud indeed on the flight of the journey. We fly, and we
     sing: Sweden, thou glorious land! Sweden, whither holy gods came in
     remote antiquity from the mountains of Asia; thou land that art yet
     illumined by their glitter! It streams out of the flowers, with the
     name of Linnæus; it beams before thy knightly people from the
     banner of Charles the Twelfth, it sounds out of the memorial stone
     erected upon the field at Lutzen. Sweden! thou land of deep
     feeling, of inward songs, home of the clear streams, where wild
     swans sing in the northern light's glimmer! thou land, upon whose
     deep, still seas the fairies of the North build their colonnades
     and lead their struggling spirit-hosts over the ice mirror.
     Glorious Sweden, with the perfume-breathing Linea, with Jenny's
     soulful songs! To thee will we fly with the stork and the swallow,
     with the unsteady seagull and the wild swan. Thy birchwood throws
     out its perfume so refreshing and animating, under its hanging,
     earnest boughs--on its white trunk shall the harp hang. Let the
     summer wind of the North glide murmuring over its strings.'

There is true fatherland's love there. I doubt if there was ever yet real patriotism in a hot
climate--the North is the only home of unselfish and great union. Italy owes it to the cool
breezes of her Apennines that she cherishes unity; had it not been for her northern mountains
in a southern clime, she would have long ago forgotten to think of one country. But while the
Alps are her backbone, she will always be at least a vertebrate among nations, and one of the
higher order. Without the Alps she would soon be eaten up by the cancer of states' rights.
It is the North, too, which will supply the great uniting power of America, and keep alive
a love for the great national name.

Very different is the rest--and yet it has too the domestic home-tone of the North. In Sweden,
in Germany, in America, in England, the family tie is somewhat other than in the East or in
any warm country. With us, old age is not so ever-neglected and little honored as in softer
climes. Thank the fireside for that. The hearth, and the stove, and the long, cold months which
keep the grandsire and granddame in the easy chair by the warm corner, make a home centre,
where the children linger as long as they may for stories, and where love lingers, kept alive
by many a cheerful, not to be easily told tie. And it lives--this love--lives in the heart
of the man after he has gone forth to business or to battle: he will not tell you of it, but
he remembers grandmother and grandfather, as he saw them a boy--the centre of the group, which
will never form again save in heaven.

Let us turn to

     'THE GRANDMOTHER.

     'Grandmother is very old, has many wrinkles, and perfectly white
     hair; but her eyes gleam like two stars, yes, much more beautiful;
     they are so mild, it does one good to look into them! And then she
     knows how to relate the most beautiful stories. And she has a dress
     embroidered with great, great flowers; it is such a heavy silk
     stuff that it rattles. Grandmother knows a great deal, because she
     has lived much longer than father and mother; that is certain!
     Grandmother has a hymn book with strong silver clasps, and she
     reads very often in the book. In the midst of it lies a rose,
     pressed and dry; it is not so beautiful as the rose which stands in
     the glass, but yet she smiles upon it in the most friendly way;
     indeed, it brings the tears to her eyes! Why does grandmother look
     so at the faded flower in the old book? Do you know? Every time
     that grandmother's tears fall upon the flower, the colors become
     fresh again, the rose swells up and fills the whole room with its
     fragrance, the walls disappear, as if they were only mist, and
     round about her is the green, glorious wood, where the sun beams
     through the leaves of the trees; and grandmother is young again; a
     charming maiden, with full red cheeks, beautiful and innocent--no
     rose is fresher; but the eyes, the mild, blessing eyes, still
     belong to grandmother. At her side sits a young man, large and
     powerful: he reaches her the rose, and she smiles--grandmother does
     not smile so now! oh yes, look now!----But he has vanished: many
     thoughts, many forms sweep past--the beautiful young man is gone,
     the rose lies in the hymn book, and grandmother sits there again as
     an old woman, and looks upon the faded rose which lies in the book.

     'Now grandmother is dead. She sat in the armchair and related a
     long, beautiful story; she said, 'Now the story is finished, and I
     am tired;' and she leaned her head back, in order to sleep a
     little. We could hear her breathing--she slept; but it became
     stiller and stiller, her face was full of happiness and peace, it
     was as if a sunbeam illumined her features; she smiled again, and
     then the people said, 'She is dead.' She was placed in a black box;
     there she lay covered with white linen; she was very beautiful, and
     yet her eyes were closed, but every wrinkle had vanished; she lay
     there with a smile about her mouth; her hair was silver white,
     venerable, but it did not frighten one to look upon the corpse, for
     it was indeed the dear, kind-hearted grandmother. The dead know
     more than all of us living ones; they are better than we. The earth
     is heaped up over the coffin, even within the coffin there is
     earth; the leaves of the hymn book are dust, and the rose, with all
     its memories. But above bloom fresh roses; above, the nightingale
     sings, and the organ tones forth; above, the memory of the old
     grandmother lives, with her mild, ever young eyes. Eyes can never
     die. Ours will one day see the grandmother again, young and
     blooming as when she for the first time kissed the fresh red rose,
     which is now dust in the grave.'

     'THE CELL PRISON.

