"'Married!' and as that word left my lips, it seemed as if my very life, my very soul, had
gushed forth also in the sound. When--oh! when, in the night-watch and the daily yearning,
when, whatever might have been my grief or wretchedness, or despondency, when had I dreamt,
when imaged forth even the outline of a doom like this? Married! my Lucy, my fond, my constant,
my pure-hearted, and tender Lucy! Suddenly, all the chilled and revolted energies of my passions
seemed to re-act, and rush back upon me. I seized that smiling and hollow wretch with a fierce
grasp. 'You have done this--you have broken her heart--you have crushed mine! I curse you in
her name and my own!--I curse you from the bottom and with all the venom of my soul!--Wretch!
wretch! and he was as a reed in my hands.'

"'Madman,' said he, as at last he extricated himself from my gripe, 'my daughter married with
her free consent, and to one far better fitted to make her happy than you. Go, go--I forgive
you--I also was once in love, and with her mother!'

"I did not answer--I let him depart.

"It was a little while after this interview--but I mention it now, for there is no importance
in the quarter from which I heard it--that I learned some few particulars of Lucy's marriage.
There was, and still is, in the world's gossip, a strange story of a rich, foolish man, awed
as well as gulled by a sharper, and of a girl torn to a church with a violence so evident that
the priest refused the ceremony. But the rite was afterwards solemnized by special license,
in private, and at night. The pith of that story has truth, and Lucy was at once the heroine
and victim of the romance. Now, then, I turn to somewhat a different strain in my narrative.

"You, A----, who know so well the habits of a university life, need not be told how singularly
monotonous and contemplative it may be made to a lonely man. The first year I was there, I
mixed, as you may remember, in none of the many circles into which that curious and motley
society is split. My only recreation was in long and companionless rides; and in the flat and
dreary country around our university, the cheerless aspect of nature fed the idle melancholy
at my heart. In the second year of my college life, I roused myself a little from my seclusion,
and rather by accident than design--you will remember that my acquaintance was formed among
the men considered most able and promising of our time. In the summer of that year, I resolved
to make a bold effort to harden my mind and conquer its fastidious reserve; and I set out to
travel over the North of England, and the greater part of Scotland, in the humble character
of a pedestrian tourist. Nothing ever did my character more solid good than that experiment.
I was thrown among a thousand varieties of character; I was continually forced into bustle
and action, and into providing for myself--that great and indelible lesson towards permanent
independence of character.

"One evening, in an obscure part of Cumberland, I was seeking a short cut to a neighbouring
village through a gentleman's grounds, in which there was a public path. Just within sight
of the house (which was an old, desolate building, in the architecture of James the First,
with gable-ends and dingy walls, and deep-sunk, gloomy windows,) I perceived two ladies at
a little distance before me; one seemed in weak and delicate health, for she walked slowly
and with pain, and stopped often as she leaned on her companion. I lingered behind, in order
not to pass them abruptly; presently, they turned away towards the house, and I saw them no
more. Yet that frail and bending form, as I too soon afterwards learned--that form, which I
did not recognise--which, by a sort of fatality, I saw only in a glimpse, and yet for the last
time on earth,--that form--was the wreck of Lucy D----!

"Unconscious of this event in my destiny, I left that neighbourhood, and settled for some weeks
on the borders of the Lake Keswick. There, one evening, a letter, re-directed to me from London,
reached me. The hand-writing was that of Lucy; but the trembling and slurred characters, so
different from that graceful ease which was wont to characterize all she did, filled me, even
at the first glance, with alarm. This is the letter--read it--you will know, then, what I have
lost:--

"'I write to you, my dear, my unforgotten ----, the last letter this hand will ever trace.
Till now, it would have been a crime to write to you; perhaps it is so still--but dying as
I am, and divorced from all earthly thoughts and remembrances, save yours, I feel that I cannot
quite collect my mind for the last hour until I have given you the blessing of one whom you
loved once; and when that blessing is given, I think I can turn away from your image, and sever
willingly the last tie that binds me to earth. I will not afflict you by saying what I have
suffered since we parted--with what anguish I thought of what you would feel when you found
me gone--and with what cruel, what fearful violence, I was forced into becoming the wretch
I now am. I was hurried, I was driven, into a dreadful and bitter duty--but I thank God that
I have fulfilled it. What, what have I done, to have been made so miserable throughout life
as I have been! I ask my heart, and tax my conscience--and every night I think over the sins
of the day; they do not seem to me heavy, yet my penance has been very great. For the last
two years, I do sincerely think that there has not been one day which I have not marked with
tears. But enough of this, and of myself. You, dear, dear L----, let me turn to you! Something
at my heart tells me that you have not forgotten that once we were the world to each other,
and even through the changes and the glories of a man's life, I think you will not forget it.
True, L----, that I was a poor and friendless, and not too-well educated girl, and altogether
unworthy of your destiny; but you did not think so then--and when you have lost me, it is a
sad, but it is a real comfort, to feel that that thought will never occur to you. Your memory
will invest me with a thousand attractions and graces I did not possess, and all that you recall
of me will be linked with the freshest and happiest thoughts of that period of life in which
you first beheld me. And this thought, dearest L----, sweetens death to me--and sometimes it
comforts me for what has been. Had our lot been otherwise--had we been united, and had you
survived your love for me (and what more probable!) my lot would have been darker even than
it has been. I know not how it is--perhaps from my approaching death--but I seem to have grown
old, and to have obtained the right to be your monitor and warner. Forgive me, then, if I implore
you to think earnestly and deeply of the great ends of life; think of them as one might think
who is anxious to gain a distant home, and who will not be diverted from his way. Oh! could
you know how solemn and thrilling a joy comes over me as I nurse the belief, the certainty,
that we shall meet at length, and for ever! Will not that hope also animate you, and guide
you unerring through the danger and the evil of this entangled life?

"May God bless you, and watch over you--may He comfort and cheer, and elevate your heart to
him! Before you receive this, I shall be no more--and my love, my care for you will, I trust
and feel, have become eternal.--Farewell:

'L.M.'

"The letter," continued L----, struggling with his emotions, "was dated from that village through
which I had so lately passed; thither I repaired that very night--Lucy had been buried the
day before! I stood upon a green mound, and a few, few feet below, separated from me by a scanty
portion of earth, mouldered that heart which had loved me so faithfully and so well!"

New Monthly Magazine.

        *       *       *       *       *

A Jew said to the venerable Ali, in argument on the truth of their religion, "You had not even
deposited your prophet's body in the earth, when you quarrelled among yourselves." Ali replied,
"Our divisions proceeded from the loss of him, not concerning our faith; but your feet were
not yet dry from the mud of the Red Sea, when you cried unto Moses, saying, 'Make us gods like
unto those of the idolaters, that we may worship them.'" The Jew was confounded.

W.G.C.

        *       *       *       *       *

Few of the original houses of Genius[2] will excite more interest than the above relic of SPENCER.
It is copied from a lithographic drawing in Mr. T. Crofton Croker's "Researches in the South
of Ireland," where it is so well described, that we can spare but few lines in our abridgement
of the passage:--

Kilcolman Castle is distant three English miles from Doneraile, and is seated in as unpicturesque
a spot as at present could have been selected. Many of the delightful and visionary anticipations
I had indulged, from the pleasure of visiting the place where the Fairy Queen had been composed,
were at an end on beholding the monotonous reality of the country. Corn fields, divided from
pasturage by numerous intersecting hedges, constituted almost the only variety of feature for
a considerable extent around; and the mountains bounding the prospect partook even in a greater
degree of the same want of variety in their forms. The ruin itself stands on a little rocky
eminence. Spreading before it lies a tract of flat and swampy ground, through which, we were
informed, the "River Bregog hight" had its course; and though in winter, when swollen by mountain
torrents, a deep and rapid stream, its channel at present was completely dried up.

    [2] We have the pleasure of informing our esteemed
        correspondent, H.H. of Twickenham, that the very interesting
        memorial of GRAY, to which he alluded in his last letter,
        will illustrate an early number of the Mirror.

  "Sometimes, misguided by the tuneful throng,
  I look for streams immortalized in song,
  That lost in silence and oblivion lie;
  Dumb are their fountains, and their channels dry."

Judging from what remains, the original form of Kilcolman was an oblong square, flanked by
a tower at the south-east corner. The apartment in the basement story has still its stone arched
roof entire, and is used as a shelter for cattle; the narrow, screw-like stairs of the tower
are nearly perfect, and lead to an extremely small chamber, which we found in a state of complete
desolation.

Kilcolman was granted by Queen Elizabeth, on the 27th June, 1586, to Spencer (who went into
Ireland as secretary to Lord Grey), with 3,028 acres of land, at the rent of 17l. 3s. 6d.;
on the same conditions with the other undertakers (as they were termed) between whom the forfeited
Desmond estate was divided. These conditions implied a residence on the ground, and their chief
object seems to have been the peopling Munster with English families: a favourite project of
Elizabeth's for strengthening the English influence in Ireland, by creating the tie of consanguinity
between the two countries.

It is supposed that this castle was the principal residence of Spencer for about ten years,
during which time he composed the works that have chiefly contributed to his fame. But the
turbulent and indignant spirit of the Irish regarded not the haunts of the muse as sacred,
and wrapped the poet's dwelling in flames. An infant child of Spencer's, together with his
most valuable property, were consumed, and he returned into England;--where, dejected, and
broken-hearted, he died soon after, at an inn in King-street, Westminster.

"It does not appear what became of Spencer's wife and children. Two sons are said to have survived
him, Sylvanus and Peregrine; Sylvanus married Ellen Nangle or Nagle, eldest daughter of David
Nangle of Moneanymy, in the county of Cork, by whom he had two sons, Edmund and William Spencer.
His other son, Peregrine, also married, and had a son Hugolin, who, after the restoration of
Charles II. was replaced by the Court of Claims in as much of the lands as could be found to
have been his ancestor's. Hugolin attached himself to the cause of James II. and after the
revolution, was outlawed for treason and rebellion. Some time after his cousin William, son
of Sylvanus, became a suitor for the forfeited property, and recovered it by the interest of
Mr. Montague, afterwards Earl of Halifax, who was then at the head of the treasury. He had
been introduced to Mr. Montague by Congreve, who with others was desirous of honouring the
descendant of so great a poet. Dr. Birch describes him as a man somewhat advanced in years,
but unable to give any account of the works of his ancestor which are wanting. The family has
been since very imperfectly traced."--Chalmers's Biog. Dic.

The visits of Sir Walter Raleigh to Spencer at Kilcolman increase the interest attached to
the place, and are not in the slightest degree questionable.[3] To the advice of Raleigh the
publication of the first books of the Fairy Queen has been ascribed; and the existence of a
poetical intercourse between such minds, and in such distracting scenes, is a delightful recollection
that almost warms the heart into romance.

    [3] Raleigh, it will be recollected, became Spencer's patron,
        upon the death of Sir Philip Sidney, whom he celebrates
        under the title of "The Shepherd of the Ocean." Raleigh also
        ensured Spencer the favour of Elizabeth, a pension of 50l.
        per annum, and the distinction of her laureate.--ED.

Amongst the literary pilgrims whose veneration for Spencer has prompted them to examine Kilcolman
was the celebrated Edmund Burke; nor should the imprudent and enthusiastic Trotter be forgotten;
the account given by him of his visits, in 1817, are very pleasing, though highly tinged with
that fanaticism to which he ultimately became a victim.

        *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

        *       *       *       *       *

CROTCHET CASTLE.

The author of Headlong Hall has, under the above title, produced as lively a little volume
of humour and pleasantry as it has lately been our good fortune to meet with. Every page, nay,
every line is a satire upon the extravagance and precocity of what Vivian Grey calls our "artificial
state;" and all the weak sides of our age are mercilessly dealt with by the coterie at Crotchet
Castle. The book is altogether Shandean, and the satire shandied to and fro with great vivacity.
We need not tell the reader what period or event of the last seven years is pointed to in the
following extract. Mr. Touchandgo, it appears, was a great banker, who was "suddenly reported
absent one foggy morning, with the contents of his till;" his daughter was to have been married
to Mr. Crotchet but for this untoward event.

        *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

        *       *       *       *       *

THE AUTOCRAT'S PRAYER.

  Europe! hear the voice that rose
  From the chief of Freedom's foes--
  When he bade war's thunders roll
  O'er the country of the Pole--
  To his Cossacks on parade
  Thus the Calmuck robber said:

  "Mine the might, and mine the right,
  Stir ye, spur ye to the fight--
  Bare the blade, and strike the blow
  To the heart's core of the foe--
  Slaughter all the rebel bands
  Found with weapons in their hands;
  On! the holy work of fate
  Russia's God will consecrate.

  "'Tis decreed that they shall bleed
  For their dark and trait'rous deed.
  Poles! to us by conquest given,
  Ye provoke the wrath of Heaven:
  Therefore, purging sword and shot
  Use we must, and spare you not.
  Guardian of our northern faith,
  Guide us to the field of death!

  "Ere we've done, many a one
  Shall weep they ever saw the sun.
  Rouse the noble in his hall
  To a fiery festival;
  Dash the stubborn peasant's mirth--
  Drown in blood his alien hearth;
  Babe or mother, never falter--
  Spear the priest before the altar.
  Onward, and avenge our wrong!
  God is good, and Russia strong!"

Englishman's Magazine, No 1.

        *       *       *       *       *

QUEEN ELIZABETH.

From a paper on the Fine Arts of old in England, in Blackwood's Magazine.

The sex and character of Elizabeth herself was no weak ingredient in the poetic spirit of the
time. Loyalty and gallantry blended in the adoration paid her; and the supremacy which she
claimed and exercised over the church, invested her regality with a sacred unction that pertained
not to feudal sovereigns. It is scarce too much to say, that the virgin-queen appropriated
the Catholic honours of the Virgin Mary. She was as great as Diana of the Ephesians. The moon
shone but to furnish a type of her bright and stainless maidenhood. To magnify her greatness,
the humility of courtly adulation merged in the ecstasies of Platonic love. She was charming
by indefeasible right;--a jure divino beauty. Her fascinations multiplied with her wrinkles,
and her admirers might have anticipated the conceit of Cowley,

  "The antipevistoisis of age
  More inflamed their amorous rage."

It is easy for a Whig, or a Puritan, or any other unimaginative blockhead, to cry out against
all this as nauseous flattery, and assert that after all she was rather an unpoetical personage
than otherwise--a coarse-minded old maid, half prude, half coquette, whose better part was
mannish, and all that belonged to her sex a ludicrous exaggeration of its weaknesses. But meanwhile,
they overlook the fact, that not the woman Elizabeth, but the Virgin-queen, the royal heroine,
is the theme of admiration. Not the petty virtues, the pretty sensibilities, the cheap charity,
the prim decorum, which modern flatterers dwell upon, degrading royalty, while they palaver
its possessor, but Britannia's sacred majesty, enshrined in chaste and lofty womanhood. Our
ancestors paid their compliments to sex or rank--ours are addressed to the person. There is
no flattery where there is no falsehood--no falsehood where there is no deception. Loyalty
of old was a passion, and passion has a truth of its own--and as language does not always furnish
expressions exactly adapted, or native to the feeling, what can the loyal poet do, but take
the most precious portion of the currency, and impress it with the mint-mark of his own devoted
fancy? Perhaps there never was a more panegyrical rhymer than Spenser, and yet, so fine and
ethereal is his incense, that the breath of morning is not more cool and salutary:--

  "It falls me here to write of Chastity
  That fayrest virtue, far above the rest.
  For which what needs me fetch from Faery,
  Forreine ensamples it to have exprest,
  Sith it is shrined in my soveraine's brest,
  And form'd so lively on each perfect part,
  That to all ladies, who have it protest,
  Needs but behold the pourtraict of her part,
  If pourtray'd it might be by any living art;
  But living art may not least part expresse,
  Nor life-resembling pencil it can paint,
  All it were Zeuxis or Praxiteles--
  His dædale hand would faile and greatly faynt,
  And her perfections with his error taynt;
  Ne poet's wit that passeth painter farre--
  In picturing the parts of beauty daynt," &c.

But neither Zeuxis nor Praxiteles was called from the dead to mar her perfections, nor record
her negative charms. Poetry was the only art that flourished in the Virgin reign. The pure
Gothic, after attaining its full efflorescence under Henry VII., departed, never to return.
The Grecian orders were not only absurdly jumbled together, but yet more outrageously conglomerated
with the Gothic and Arabesque. "To gild refined gold--to paint the lily," was all the humour
of it. A similar inconsistency infected literature. The classic and the romantic (to use those
terms, which, though popular, are not logically exact) were interwoven. The Arcadia and the
Fairy Queen are glorious offences, which "make defect perfection." Perhaps, Shakspeare's "small
Latin and less Greek," preserved him from worse anachronisms than any that he has committed.
Queen Bess's patronage was of the national breed: she loved no pictures so well as portraits
of herself. As, however, her painters have not flattered her, it may not uncharitably be concluded
that they were no great deacons in their craft. It is a much easier thing to assure a homely
female, in prose or rhyme, that she is beautiful, than to represent her so upon canvass. Her
effigies are, I believe, pretty numerous, varying in ugliness, but none that I have seen even
handsome--prettiness, of course, is out of the question. She was fond of finery, but had no
taste in dress. Her ruff is downright odious; and the liberal exposure of her neck and bosom
anything but alluring. With all her pearls about her, she looks like a pawnbroker's lady bedizened
for an Easter ball, with all the unredeemed pledges from her husband's shop. She seems to have
patronized that chimera in the ideal or allegorical portrait, at which Reubens and Sir Joshua
were so often doomed to toil. She would not allow a shadow in her picture, arguing, like a
Chinese, or a chop-logic, that shade is only an accident, and no true property of body. Like
Alexander, who forbade all sculptors but Lysippus to carve his image, she prohibited all but
special cunning limners from drawing her effigy. This was in 1563, anno regni 5, while, though
no chicken, she still was not clean past her youth. This order was probably intended to prevent
caricatures. At last she quarrelled with her looking-glass as well as her painters, and her
maids of honour removed all mirrors from her apartments, as carefully as Ministers exclude
opposition papers (we hope not Maga) from the presence of our most gracious sovereign. It is
even said, that those fair nettles of India took advantage of her weakness, to dress her head
awry, and to apply the rouge to her nose, instead of her cheeks. So may the superannuated eagle
be pecked at by daws. But the tale is not probable. After all, it is but the captious inference
of witlings and scoffers, that attributes to mere sexual vanity that superstitious horror of
encroaching age, from which the wisest are not always free. It may be, that they shrink from
the reflection of their wrinkles, not as from the despoilers of beauty, but as from the vaunt-couriers
of dissolution. In rosy youth, while yet the brow is alabaster-veined with Heaven's own tint,
and the dark tresses turn golden in the sun, the lapse of time is imperceptible as the throbbing
of a heart at ease. "So like, so very like, is day to day,"--one primrose scarce more like
another. Whoever saw their first grey hairs, or marked the crow-feet at the angle of their
eyes, without a sigh or a tear, a momentous self-abasement, a sudden sinking of the soul, a
thought that youth is flown for ever? None but the blessed few that, having dedicated their
spring of life to Heaven, behold in the shedding of their vernal blossoms, a promise that the
season of immortal fruit is near. It is a frailty, almost an instance of humanity, to aim at
concealing that from others, of which ourselves are painfully conscious. The herculean Johnson
keenly resented the least allusion to the shortness of his sight. So entirely is man a social
animal, so dependent are all his feelings for their very existence upon communication and sympathy,
that the "fee griefs," which none but ourselves are privy to, are forgotten as soon as they
are removed from the senses. The artifices to which so many have recourse to conceal their
declining years, are often intended more to soothe themselves, than to impose on others. This
aversion to growing old is specially natural and excusable in the celibate and the childless.
The borrowed curls, the pencilled eyebrows,

          "The steely-prison'd shape,
  So oft made taper, by constraint of tape,"

the various cosmetic secrets, well-known to the middle ages, not only of the softer sex, are
not unseemly in a spinster, so long as they succeed in making her look young. They are intolerable
in a mother of any age. But we, my dear Christopher, resigned and benevolent old bachelors
as we are, can well appreciate the vanity of the aged heart, that sees not its youth renewed
in any growing dearer self. Nothing denotes the advances of life, at once so surely and so
pleasantly as children springing up around a good man's table. Perhaps our famous Queen, in
her latter days, though full of honours as of years, would gladly have changed places with
the wife of any yeoman that had a child to receive her last blessing, whose few acres were
not to pass away to the hungry expecting son of a hated rival. Her virginity was not like that
of Jephthah's daughter, a free-will offering to the Lord. Pride, and policy, and disappointment,
and, it may be, hopeless, self-condemned affection, conspired to perpetuate it. Probably it
was well for England that no offspring of hers inherited her throne. By some strange ordinance
of nature, it generally happens that these wonderful clever women produce idiots or madmen.--Witness
Semiramis, Agrippina, Catherine de Medicis, Mary de Medicis, Catherine of Russia, and Lady
Wortley Montague. One miniature of Elizabeth I have seen, which, though not beautiful, is profoundly
interesting: it presents her as she was in the days of her danger and captivity, when the same
wily policy, keeping its path, even while it seemed to swerve, was needful to preserve her
life, that afterwards kept her firm on a throne. Who was the artist that produced it? I know
not; but it bears the strongest marks of authenticity, if to be exactly what a learned spirit
would fancy Elizabeth--young, a prisoner, and in peril--be evidence of true portraiture. There
is pride, not aping humility, but wearing it as a well-beseeming habit;--there is passion,
strongly controlled by the will, but not extinct, neither dead nor sleeping, but watchful and
silent; brows sternly sustaining a weight of care, after which a crown could be but light;
a manly intellect, allied with female craft;--but nonsense! it will be said; no colours whatever
could represent all this, and that, too, in little, for the picture was among Bone's enamels.
Well, then, it suggested it all. Perhaps the finest Madonna ever painted would be no more than
a meek, pious, pretty woman, and an innocent child, if we knew not whom it was meant for.

        *       *       *       *       *

THE HAUNTED HOUSE.

    MOORE.

  Seest thou yon grey gleaming hall,
  Where the deep elm shadows fall?
  Voices that have left the earth
    Long ago,
  Still are murmuring round its hearth,
      Soft and low:
  Ever there:--yet one alone
  Hath the gift to hear their tone.
  Guests come thither, and depart,
  Free of step, and light of heart;
  Children, with sweet visions bless'd,
  In the haunted chambers rest;
  One alone unslumbering lies
  When the night hath seal'd all eyes,
  One quick heart and watchful ear,
  Listening for those whispers clear.

  Seest thou where the woodbine-flowers
  O'er yon low porch hang in showers?
  Startling faces of the dead,
    Pale, yet sweet,
  One lone woman's entering tread
      There still meet!
  Some with young smooth foreheads fair,
  Faintly shining through bright hair;
  Some with reverend locks of snow--
  All, all buried long ago!
  All, from under deep sea-waves,
  Or the flowers of foreign graves,
  Or the old and banner'd aisle,
  Where their high tombs gleam the while,
  Rising, wandering, floating by,
  Suddenly and silently,
  Through their earthly home and place,
  But amidst another race.

  Wherefore, unto one alone,
  Are those sounds and visions known?
  Wherefore hath that spell of power
    Dark and dread,
  On her soul, a baleful dower,
      Thus been shed?
  Oh! in those deep-seeing eyes,
  No strange gift of mystery lies!
  She is lone where once she moved
  Fair, and happy, and beloved!
  Sunny smiles were glancing round her,
  Tendrils of kind hearts had bound her;
  Now those silver cords are broken,
  Those bright looks have left no token,
  Not one trace on all the earth,
  Save her memory of her mirth.
  She is lone and lingering now,
  Dreams have gather'd o'er her brow,
  Midst gay song and children's play,
  She is dwelling far away;
  Seeing what none else may see--
  Haunted still her place must be!

New Monthly Magazine.

        *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE

        *       *       *       *       *

OCTOGENARIAN REMINISCENCES.

In 1760, a Mr. Cross was prompter at Drury Lane Theatre, and a Mr. Saunders the principal machinist.
Saunders laboured under an idea that he was qualified for a turf-man, and, like most who are
afflicted with that disorder, suffered severely. The animals he kept, instead of being safe
running horses for him, generally made him a safe stalking-horse for others. Upon one occasion
he came to the theatre in great ill-humour, having just received the account of a race which
he had lost. Cross was busily engaged in writing, and cross at the interruption he met with
from Saunders's repeated exclamations against his jockey; he at length looked up, and said
impatiently, "His fault--his fault--how was it his fault?" "Why," said Saunders, "the d--d
rascal ran my horse against a wagon." "Umph!" replied Cross, "I never knew a horse of yours
that was fit to run against any thing else!"

A musician of the name of Goodall, who belonged to the orchestra of the Theatre Royal, Richmond,
in 1767, was fonder of his, or any other man's, bottle than his own bassoon. The natural consequence
was, that he frequently failed in his attendances at the theatre. Upon one occasion, after
an absence of a week, he returned in the middle of the performances for the evening. A piece
was being acted called the "Intriguing Chambermaid," in which there is a character of an old
gentleman called Mr. Goodall, who comes on as from a journey, followed by a servant carrying
his portmanteau. To him there enters a lady, Mrs. Highman, whose first exclamation is, "Bless
my eyes, what do I see? Mr. Goodall returned?" At that precise moment Old Goodall happened
to put his head into the orchestra, and fancying himself addressed, called out, "Lord bless
you, ma'am, I've been here this half hour."

