It had now become dark, and the towers of Woodstock arose high above the umbrageous shroud
which the forest spread around the ancient and venerable mansion. From one of the highest turrets,
which could still be distinguished as it rose against the clear blue sky, there gleamed a light
like that of a candle within the building. The Mayor stopt short, and catching fast hold of
the divine, and then of Colonel Everard, exclaimed, in a trembling and hasty, but suppressed tone,

"Do you see yonder light?"

"Ay, marry do I," said Colonel Everard; "and what does that matter?--a light in a garret-room
of such an old mansion as Woodstock is no subject of wonder, I trow."

"But a light from Rosamond's Tower is surely so," said the Mayor.

"True," said the Colonel, something surprised, when, after a careful examination, he satisfied
himself that the worthy magistrate's conjecture was right. "That is indeed Rosamond's Tower;
and as the drawbridge, by which it was accessible has been destroyed for centuries, it is hard
to say what chance could have lighted a lamp in such an inaccessible place."

"That light burns with no earthly fuel," said the Mayor; "neither from whale nor olive oil,
nor bees-wax, nor mutton-suet either. I dealt in these commodities, Colonel, before I went
into my present line; and I can assure you I could distinguish the sort of light they give,
one from another, at a greater distance than yonder turret--Look you, that is no earthly flame.--See
you not something blue and reddish upon the edges?-- that bodes full well where it comes from.--Colonel,
in my opinion we had better go back to sup at the town, and leave the Devil and the red-coats
to settle their matters together for to-night; and then when we come back the next morning,
we will have a pull with the party that chances to keep a-field."

"You will do as you please, Master Mayor," said Everard, "but my duty requires me that I should
see the Commissioners to-night."

"And mine requires me to see the foul Fiend," said Master Holdenough, "if he dare make himself
visible to me. I wonder not that, knowing who is approaching, he betakes himself to the very
citadel, the inner and the last defences of this ancient and haunted mansion. He is dainty,
I warrant you, and must dwell where is a relish of luxury and murder about the walls of his
chamber. In yonder turret sinned Rosamond, and in yonder turret she suffered; and there she
sits, or more likely, the Enemy in her shape, as I have heard true men of Woodstock tell. I
wait on you, good Colonel--Master Mayor will do as he pleases. The strong man hath fortified
himself in his dwelling-house, but lo, there cometh another stronger than he."

"For me," said the Mayor, "who am as unlearned as I am unwarlike, I will not engage either--with
the Powers of the Earth, or the Prince of the Powers of the Air, and I would we were again
at Woodstock;--and hark ye, good fellow," slapping Wildrake on the shoulder, "I will bestow
on thee a shilling wet and a shilling dry if thou wilt go back with me."

"Gadzookers, Master Mayor," said, Wildrake, neither flattered by the magistrate's familiarity
of address, nor captivated by his munificence-- "I wonder who the devil made you and me fellows?
and, besides, do you think I would go back to Woodstock with your worshipful cods-head, when,
by good management, I may get a peep of fair Rosamond, and see whether she was that choice
and incomparable piece of ware, which the world has been told of by rhymers and ballad-makers?"

"Speak less lightly and wantonly, friend," said the divine; "we are to resist the devil that
he may flee from us, and not to tamper with him, or enter into his counsels, or traffic with
the merchandise of his great Vanity Fair."

"Mind what the good man says, Wildrake," said the Colonel; "and take heed another time how
thou dost suffer thy wit to outrun discretion."

"I am beholden to the reverend gentleman for his advice," answered Wildrake, upon whose tongue
it was difficult to impose any curb whatever, even when his own safety rendered it most desirable.
"But, gadzookers, let him have had what experience he will in fighting with the Devil, he never
saw one so black as I had a tussle with--not a hundred years ago."

"How, friend," said the clergyman, who understood every thing literally when apparitions were
mentioned, "have you had so late a visitation of Satan? Believe me, then, that I wonder why
thou darest to entertain his name so often and so lightly, as I see thou dost use it in thy
ordinary discourse. But when and where didst thou see the Evil One?"

Everard hastily interposed, lest by something yet more strongly alluding to Cromwell, his imprudent
squire should, in mere wantonness, betray his interview with the General. "The young man raves,"
he said, "of a dream which he had the other night, when he and I slept together in Victor Lee's
chamber, belonging to the Ranger's apartments at the Lodge."

"Thanks for help at a pinch, good patron," said Wildrake, whispering into Everard's ear, who
in vain endeavoured to shake him off,--"a fib never failed a fanatic."

"You, also, spoke something too lightly of these matters, considering the work which we have
in hand, worthy Colonel," said the Presbyterian divine.

"With all my heart, sir," said Wildrake--then addressing his patron, who began to interfere,
he said, "Tush, sir, you have had the discourse for an hour, and why should not I hold forth
in my turn? By this darkness, if you keep me silent any longer, I will turn Independent preacher,
and stand up in your despite for the freedom of private judgment.--And so, reverend sir, I
was dreaming of a carnal divertisement called a bull-baiting; and methought they were venturing
dogs at head, as merrily as e'er I saw them at Tutbury bull-running; and methought I heard
some one say, there was the Devil come to have a sight of the bull-ring. Well, I thought that,
gadswoons, I would have a peep at his Infernal Majesty. So I looked, and there was a butcher
in greasy woollen, with his steel by his side; but he was none of the Devil. And there was
a drunken cavalier, with his mouth full of oaths, and his stomach full of emptiness, and a
gold-laced waistcoat in a very dilapidated condition, and a ragged hat,--with a piece of a
feather in it; and he was none of the Devil neither. And here was a miller, his hands dusty
with meal, and every atom of it stolen; and there was a vintner, his green apron stained with
wine, and every drop of it sophisticated; but neither was the old gentleman I looked for to
be detected among these artisans of iniquity. At length, sir, I saw a grave person with cropped
hair, a pair of longish and projecting ears, a band as broad as a slobbering bib under his
chin, a brown coat surmounted by a Geneva cloak, and I had old Nicholas at once in his genuine
paraphernalia, by--."

"Shame, shame!" said Colonel Everard. "What! behave thus to an old gentleman and a divine!"

"Nay, let him proceed," said the minister, with perfect equanimity: "if thy friend, or secretary,
is gibing, I must have less patience than becomes my profession, if I could not bear an idle
jest, and forgive him who makes it. Or if, on the other hand, the Enemy has really presented
himself to the young man in such a guise as he intimates, wherefore should we be surprised
that he, who can take upon him the form of an angel of light, should be able to assume that
of a frail and peaceable mortal, whose spiritual calling and profession ought, indeed, to induce
him to make his life an example to others; but whose conduct, nevertheless, such is the imperfection
of our unassisted nature, sometimes rather presents us with a warning of what we should shun?"

"Now, by the mass, honest domine--I mean reverend sir--I crave you a thousand pardons," said
Wildrake, penetrated by the quietness and patience of the presbyter's rebuke. "By St. George,
if quiet patience will do it, thou art fit to play a game at foils with the Devil himself,
and I would be contented to hold stakes."

As he concluded an apology, which was certainly not uncalled for, and seemed to be received
in perfectly good part, they approached so close to the exterior door of the Lodge, that they
were challenged with the emphatic Stand, by a sentinel who mounted guard there. Colonel Everard
replied, A friend; and the sentinel repeating his command, "Stand, friend," proceeded to call
the corporal of the guard. The corporal came forth, and at the same time turned out his guard.
Colonel Everard gave his name and designation, as well as those of his companions, on which
the corporal said, "he doubted not there would be orders for his instant admission; but, in
the first place, Master Tomkins must be consulted, that he might learn their honours' mind."

"How, sir!" said the Colonel, "do you, knowing who I am, presume to keep me on the outside
of your post?"

"Not if your honour pleases to enter," said the corporal, "and undertakes to be my warranty;
but such are the orders of my post."

"Nay, then, do your duty," said the Colonel; "but are the cavaliers up, or what is the matter,
that you keep so close and strict a watch?"

The fellow gave no distinct answer, but muttered between his mustaches something about the
Enemy, and the roaring Lion who goeth about seeking whom he may devour. Presently afterwards
Tomkins appeared, followed by two servants, bearing lights in great standing brass candlesticks.
They marched before Colonel Everard and his party, keeping as close to each other as two cloves
of the same orange, and starting from time to time; and shuddering as they passed through sundry
intricate passages, they led up a large and ample wooden staircase, the banisters, rail, and
lining of which were executed in black oak, and finally into a long saloon, or parlour, where
there was a prodigious fire, and about twelve candles of the largest size distributed in sconces
against the wall. There were seated the Commissioners, who now held in their power the ancient
mansion and royal domain of Woodstock.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE ELEVENTH.

  The bloody bear, an independent beast,
  Unlick'd to forms, in groans his hate express'd--

  Next him the buffoon ape, as atheists use,
  Mimick'd all sects, and had his own to choose.
  HIND AND PANTHER.

The strong light in the parlour which we have described, served to enable Everard easily to
recognise his acquaintances, Desborough, Harrison, and Bletson, who had assembled round an
oak table of large dimensions, placed near the blazing chimney, on which were arranged wine,
and ale, and materials for smoking, then the general indulgence of the time. There was a species
of movable cupboard set betwixt the table and the door, calculated originally for a display
of plate upon grand occasions, but at present only used as a screen; which purpose it served
so effectually, that, ere he had coasted around it, Everard heard the following fragment of
what Desborough was saying, in his strong coarse voice:--"Sent him to share with us, I'se warrant
ye--It was always his Excellency my brother-in-law's way--if he made a treat for five friends,
he would invite more than the table could hold--I have known him ask three men to eat two eggs."

"Hush, hush," said Bletson; and the servants, making their appearance from behind the tall
cupboard, announced Colonel Everard. It may not be uninteresting to the reader to have a description,
of the party into which he now entered.

