It is not that there was no such man -- indeed there was, and other accounts indicate that
Francis Marion is as deserving of praise as this account would indicate -- or moreso.  It is
not that the events described did not take place -- most of them, at least, did.

It is simply that Parson Weems (Mason Locke Weems, 1759-1825), in an honest effort to teach
a high patriotism, nobility, and morality, sometimes embellished or exaggerated his stories
to the point of falsehood, as with his invention of the cherry tree anecdote in his Life of
Washington. It seems strange that such a devotion to moral teaching should use falsehoods to
reach its audience, but he apparently felt the means justified by the end.

Not everyone agreed with his methods, and Gen. Peter Horry wrote to him: "I requested you would
(if necessary) so far alter the work as to make it read grammatically, and I gave you leave
to embellish the work, but entertained not the least idea of what has happened . . . You have
carved and mutilated it with so many erroneous statements your embellishments, observation
and remarks, must necessarily be erroneous as proceeding from false grounds. . . .  Can you
suppose I can be pleased with reading particulars (though so elevated, by you) of Marion and
myself, when I know such never existed."  Though Horry did not want to be known as the co-author
of this work, I have suffered to let his name remain, with this notice, as it has traditionally
been connected with it.

For all this, the basic ideas, gleaned largely from facts provided by Peter Horry and Robert
Marion (the nephew of Francis), remain largely unchanged.  Even in this decadent state, Weems'
biography brought the nation's attention to Francis Marion, and inspired numerous other writers
to touch on the subject -- two of these works, biographies by James and Simms, are especially
noteworthy. Therefore, for the literary, rather than strictly historical, value, the following
is presented to the reader.

  Alan Light, Birmingham, Alabama, 1997.

           ========
Weems' Life of General Francis Marion
[Mason Locke Weems, American (Maryland) author & Anglican priest.  1759-1825.]
           ========

The Life of General Francis Marion, a Celebrated Partisan Officer, in the Revolutionary War,
against the British and Tories in South Carolina and Georgia

by Brig. Gen. P. Horry, of Marion's Brigade, and M. L. Weems, formerly rector of Mount Vernon
Parish.

                    --------
  "On VERNON'S CHIEF why lavish all our lays;
  Come, honest Muse, and sing great MARION'S praise."
                    --------

Preface.

"O that mine enemy would write a book."  -- This, in former times, passed for as sore an evil
as a good man could think of wishing to his worst enemy. --  Whether any of my enemies ever
wished me so great an evil, I know not.  But certain it is, I never dreamed of such a thing
as writing a book; and least of all a `war book'. What, I! a man here under the frozen zone
and grand climacteric of my days, with one foot in the grave and the other hard by, to quit
my prayer book and crutches, (an old man's best companion,) and drawing my sword, flourish
and fight over again the battles of my youth.

The Lord forbid me such madness!  But what can one do when one's friends are eternally teasing
him, as they are me, and calling out at every whipstitch and corner of the streets, "Well,
but, sir, where's Marion? where's the history of Marion, that we have so long been looking for?"

'Twas in vain that I told them I was no scholar; no historian. "God," said I, "gentlemen, has
made `many men of many minds;' one for this thing and another for that.  But I am morally certain
he never made me for a writer.  I did indeed once understand something about the use of a broadsword;
but as to a pen, gentlemen, that's quite another part of speech.  The difference between a
broadsword and a pen, gentlemen, is prodigious; and it is not every officer, let me tell you,
gentlemen, who can, like Caesar, fight you a great battle with his sword to-day, and fight
it over again with his pen to-morrow."

"Burn Caesar!" replied they, "and his book too.  If it were written in letters of gold, we
would not read it.  What have honest republicans like us to do with such an ambitious cut-throat
and robber?  Besides sir, your reasoning about scholarship, and fine style, and all that, does
not, begging your pardon, apply at all to the case in hand. Small subjects indeed, require
great writers to set them off; but great subjects require no such artificial helps:  like true
beauties, they shine most in the simplest dress.  Marion is one of this sort: great in his
simplicity.  Then give us Marion -- plain, brave, honest Marion; that's all we want, sir. 
And you can do this better than any other man. You have known him longest; have fought closest
by his side: and can best tell us of his noble deeds.  And surely now, after all, you can't
bear to let him die, and all his great actions, and be forgotten forever."

This, I confess, went to the quick, and roused me completely. "What! Marion forgotten?" I exclaimed,
"Marion forgotten! and by me!" No, never! never! while memory looks back on the dreadful days
of the revolution; when a British despot, not the NATION, (for I esteem them most generous,)
but a proud, stupid, obstinate, DESPOT, trampling the HOLY CHARTER and constitution of England's
realm, issued against us, (sons of Britons,) that most unrighteous edict, TAXATION without
REPRESENTATION! and then, because in the spirit of our gallant fathers, we bravely opposed
him, he broke up the very fountains of his malice, and let loose upon us every indescribable,
unimaginable curse of CIVIL WAR; when British armies, with their Hessian, and Indian, and tory
allies, overran my afflicted country, swallowing up its fruits and filling every part with
consternation; when no thing was to be seen but flying crowds, burning houses, and young men,
(alas! too often,) hanging upon the trees like dogs, and old men wringing their withered hands
over their murdered boys, and women and children weeping and flying from their ruined plantations
into the starving woods!  When I think, I say, of these things, oh my God! how can I ever forget
Marion, that vigilant, undaunted soldier, whom thy own mercy raised up to scourge such monsters,
and avenge his country's wrongs.

The Washington of the south, he steadily pursued the warfare most safe for us, and most fatal
to our enemies.  He taught us to sleep in the swamps, to feed on roots, to drink the turbid
waters of the ditch, to prowl nightly round the encampments of the foe, like lions round the
habitations of the shepherds who had slaughtered their cubs. Sometimes he taught us to fall
upon the enemy by surprise, distracting the midnight hour with the horrors of our battle: 
at other times, when our forces were increased, he led us on boldly to the charge, hewing the
enemy to pieces, under the approving light of day. Oh, Marion, my friend! my friend! never
can I forget thee. Although thy wars are all ended, and thyself at rest in the grave, yet I
see thee still.  I see thee as thou wert wont to ride, most terrible in battle to the enemies
of thy country. Thine eyes like balls of fire, flamed beneath thy lowering brows. But lovely
still wert thou in mercy, thou bravest among the sons of men! For, soon as the enemy sinking
under our swords, cried for quarter, thy heart swelled with commiseration, and thy countenance
was changed, even as the countenance of a man who beheld the slaughter of his brothers. The
basest tory who could but touch the hem of thy garment was safe. The avengers of blood stopped
short in thy presence, and turned away abashed from the lightning of thine eyes.

O that my pen were of the quill of the swan that sings for future days! then shouldst thou,
my friend, receive the fulness of thy fame. The fathers, of the years to come, should talk
of thy noble deeds; and the youth yet unborn should rise up and call thee blessed.  Fired at
the charm of thy virtues, they should follow thee in the path of thy glory, and make themselves
the future Marions of their country.

                                             Peter Horry.

      ------------------------------
    The Life of General Francis Marion
      ------------------------------

Chapter 1.

  Short sketch of an extraordinary French couple, viz.,
  the grandfather and mother of our hero -- their early and happy loves --
  cruel persecution of the priests -- final expulsion
  from their native country -- providential settlement in South Carolina --
  their prosperous and exemplary lives -- singular will of old Marion --
  and birth of his grandson, Francis.

      Immortal may their memory be
      Who fought and bled for liberty.

One thousand seven hundred and thirty-two was a glorious year for America. It gave birth to
two of the noblest thunderbolts of her wars, George Washington and Francis Marion.  The latter
was born in St. John's parish, South Carolina.  His father also was a Carolinian, but his grandfather
was a Huguenot or French Protestant, who lived near Rochelle, in the blind and bigoted days
of Louis XIV.

The priests, who are the persecutors in all countries except America, could not bear that he
should worship God in his own way, or dream of going to heaven but in their leading strings,
and therefore soon gave him to understand, that he must either "recant or trot"; that is, quit
his heresy or his country.

Too brave to play the hypocrite, and too wise to hope for happiness with a "wounded spirit",
he quickly made up his mind, and, like faithful Abraham, forsook his country, to wander an
exile in lands unknown. The angel who guides the footsteps of the virtuous, directed his course
to South Carolina; and as a reward for his piety, placed him in a land where mighty deeds and
honors were ripening for his grandson. Nor did he wander alone.  A cherub, in the form of a
lovely wife, followed his fortunes, and gave him to know, from happy experience, that where
love is, there is no exile.

Previous to his expulsion, the priests had, for some time, suspected young Marion of what they
called "heresy". But, learning that he was enamoured of the beautiful and accomplished Mademoiselle
Louisa D'Aubrey, and like to win her affections, they withheld for a while, their sacred thunders,
hoping, that through fear of them, and love of her, he might yet return to the bosom of the
Catholic Church, to which she belonged.

Young Marion's suit to his fair mistress, was fortunate to the full extent of an ardent lover's
wishes.  The charming girl repaid his passion with such liberal interest, that, in a short
time after the commencement of their delicious friendship, she received him for her husband,
in spite of all that wealthier wooers could promise, or frowning friends could threaten.

The neighboring clergy now marked the conduct of Marion with a keener eye; and discovering
in him no symptoms that pointed to recantation, they furiously pressed the bishop to enforce
against him the edict of banishment.

At this time, Marion with his lovely Louisa, were living on a small farm in the vicinity of
Rochelle.  As he walked one afternoon in the main street of that city, he was very rudely accosted
by a couple of officers of the holy inquisition, whose looks and dress were as dark and diabolical
as their employment.

"Vous etes nommes Marion?" said they; that is "your name is Marion?"

"Yes, gentlemen, that is my name."

Upon this, they rudely thrust a letter into his hand, and turned away, but with such looks
as tigers throw at a tender lambkin, whose well-guarded fold forbids their access.  On opening
the letter he found as follows:

"Your damnable heresy, well deserves, even in this life, that purgation by fire which awfully
awaits it in the next. But, in consideration of your youth and worthy connexions, our mercy
has condescended to commute your punishment to perpetual exile. -- You will, therefore, instantly
prepare to quit your country for ever. For, if after ten days from the date hereof, you should
be found in any part of the kingdom, your miserable body shall be consumed by fire, and your
impious ashes scattered on the winds of heaven.

                                   "Pere Rochelle."*

--
* I forewarn all my friends from thinking me capable of charging
  this vile persecuting spirit on the "Old W---e of Rome" exclusively.
  No, thank God, I have not so learned human nature.  And they who are yet
  to learn, may, by reading the "Catholic Layman", soon get satisfied,
  that the PRIESTS are as apt to abuse power as the PEOPLE, and that,
  when "clad with a little brief authority," protestants as well as papists,
  have committed those cruelties which make milder devils blush.
  [By way of a note on a note, I would observe, that the "Catholic Layman",
  is a very sensible and spirited pamphlet; the production, it is said,
  of Mathew Carey, Esq., of Philadelphia, who though a Roman Catholic,
  has printed more protestant Bibles and Testaments
  than half the preachers and printers in America put together.]
  (Mathew Carey was also Weems' publisher.  -- A. L., 1997.)
--

Had this dreadful letter been presented to Marion even while a bachelor, it would have filled
him with horror; for the heart naturally cleaves to the spot where it awoke into being, and
quits, with tearful eyes, the scenes among which were spent the first and happiest days of
life. But ties stronger than those of nature bound Marion to his country. His country was the
country of his Louisa.  How could he live without her? And how could he hope that she would
ever consent to leave her parents and friends to wander and die with him in hopeless exile?

But though greatly dejected, yet he did not despair.  He still trusted in that parent-power
who smiles even under frowns, and often pours his richest showers from the blackest clouds.
Cheered with this hope, he put the letter into his pocket, and set out to seek his Louisa.

With arms fondly interlocked, she had accompanied him that morning to the gate on the back
of the garden, through which he generally passed when he went to Rochelle.  Soon as his horse
was led up, and he about to mount, she snatched the bridle, and laughing, vowed he should not
go until he had promised her one thing.

"Well, charmer, what's that?"

"Why that you will return very soon."

"Well, indeed I will; so now let me go."

"Oh no! I am afraid that when you get out of sight you will play truant. You must give me security."

"Well, Louisa, what security shall I give you?"

"Why you must give me that thing, whatever it be, that you hold most dear in all the world."

"Well done! and now, Louisa, I give you yourself, the dearest thing God ever gave me in all
this world."

At this her fine face was reddened all over with blushing joy, while her love-sparkling eyes,
beaming on his, awakened that transport which those who have felt it would not exchange for
worlds.  Then, after the fond, lengthened kiss, and tender sigh of happy lovers parting, he
rode off.

Soon as he was out of her sight, she turned to go to the house. As she passed along the garden,
the sudden fancy struck her to adorn the summer house with evergreens and flowers of the liveliest
tints, and there, amidst a wilderness of sweets, to receive her returning lover. Animated with
this fond suggestion of conjugal affection, (woman's true life,) which at every quickened pulse
diffused an answering rapture through the virtuous breast, she commenced her pleasing task;
and with her task she mingled the music of her voice, clear and strong as the morning lark,
and sweet as from a heart full of innocence and love. The pleasant sounds reached the ear of
Marion, as he drew near the garden. Then, entering the gate without noise, he walked up, unperceived,
close to her as she sat all alone in the arbour, binding her fragrant flowers and singing the
happy hours away.  She was singing her favorite hymn, by Madam Guyon.

    "That love I sing, that wondrous love,
       Which wak'd my sleeping clay;
    That spread the sky in azure bright
       And pour'd the golden day," &c. &c.

To see youth and beauty, though in a stranger, thus pointing to heaven, is delightful to a
pious heart.  Then what rapture to an enlightened soul to see a beloved wife thus communing
with God, and becoming every day more and more angelic!

Soon as her song was finished, he called out, "Louisa!"

Startled at the sudden call, she turned around to the well-known voice, presenting a face on
which love and sweet surprise had spread those rosy charms, which in a moment banished all
his sorrows. "My dearest Gabriel," she exclaimed, dropping her flowers, and running and throwing
herself into his arms, "here, take back your security! take back your security! and also my
thanks for being such a man of honor. But what brought you back, love, so much earlier than
you expected?"

Here the memory of that fatal letter went like a dagger to his heart, bleaching his manly cheeks.

He would have evaded the question; but in vain, for Louisa, startled at the sudden paleness
of his looks, insisted the more earnestly to know the cause.

He delayed a moment, but conscious that the secret must soon come out, he took the letter from
his pocket, and with a reluctant hand put it into hers.

Scarcely had she run through it, which she did with the most devouring haste, when she let
it drop from her hands, and faintly articulating, "Ah, cruel priest!" she fell upon his bosom,
which she bathed with her tears.

After some moments of distress too big for utterance, Marion, deeply sighing, at length broke
silence.

"Ah, Louisa! and must we part so soon!"

At this, starting up with eyes suffused with tears but beaming immortal love, she hastily replied
-- "Part!"

"Yes!" continued he, "part! for ever part!"

"No, Marion, no! never! never!"

"Ah! can you, Louisa, leave father and mother, and follow a poor banished husband like me?"

"Yes -- yes -- father, mother, and all the world will I leave to follow thee, Marion!"

"O blessed priest, I thank you!  Good bishop Rochelle, holy father in God, I thank you -- your
persecution has enriched me above princes. It has discovered to me a mine of love in Louisa's
soul, that I never dreamed of before."

"My dearest Gabriel, did you ever doubt my love?"

"Pardon me, my love, I never doubted your love, Oh no! I knew you loved me. The circumstances
under which you married me gave me delicious proof of that. To have preferred me to so many
wealthier wooers -- to have taken me as a husband to the paradise of your arms, when so many
others would have sent me as a heretic to the purgatory of the inquisition, was evidence of
love never to be forgotten; but that in addition to all this you should now be so ready to
leave father and mother, country and kin, to follow me, a poor wanderer in the earth, without
even a place where to lay my head ----"

"Yes, yes," replied she, eagerly interrupting him, "that's the very reason I would leave all
to follow you.  For, oh my love! how could I enjoy father or mother, country or kin, and you
a wanderer in the earth, without a place whereon to lay your head!  That single thought would
cover my days with darkness, and drive me to distraction. But give me your company, my Gabriel,
and then welcome that foreign land with all its shady forests!  Welcome the thatched cottage
and the little garden filled with the fruits of our own fondly mingled toils!  Methinks, my
love, I already see that distant sun rising with gladsome beams on our dew-spangled flowers.
I hear the wild wood-birds pouring their sprightly carols on the sweet-scented morning. My
heart leaps with joy to their songs.  Then, O my husband! if we must go, let us go without
a sigh.  God can order it for our good. And, on my account, you shall cast no lingering look
behind. I am ready to follow you wherever you go.  Your God shall be my God. Where you live
I will live, and where you die, there will I die, and will be buried by your side.  Nothing
my beloved, but death, shall ever part me from you."

"Angelic Louisa!" cried Marion, snatching her to his bosom in transports -- "Wondrous woman!
what do I not owe to God, ever blessed, for such a comforter! I came just now from Rochelle
with the load of a mountain on my heart. You have taken off that mountain, and substituted
a joy most lightsome and heavenly.  Like a ministering angel, you have confirmed me in duty;
you have ended my struggles -- and by so cheerfully offering to forsake all and follow me,
you have displayed a love, dear Louisa, which will, I trust, render you next to my God, the
eternal complacency and delight of my soul."

In the midst of this tender scene, a servant came running to inform Louisa that her mother,
Madame D'Aubrey, had just arrived, and was coming to her in the garden.  This startled our
lovers into a painful expectation of another trial.  For as Louisa was an only daughter, and
her parents dotingly fond of her, it was not to be imagined that they would give her up without
a hard struggle.  Seeing the old lady coming down the walk towards them, they endeavored to
adjust their looks, and to meet her with the wonted smile.  But in vain.  The tumult in their
bosoms was still too visible in their looks to escape her discernment. She eagerly asked the
cause.  Their changing countenances served but to increase her fears and the vehemence of her
curiosity. The bishop's letter was put into her hands.  Its effects on the good old lady were
truly distressing.  Not having, like her daughter, the vigor of youth, nor the fervors of love
to support her, she was almost overcome.

Soon as her spirits were a little recovered, she insisted that her daughter and son-in-law
should instantly step into her coach and go home with her.  "Your father, my dear," said she
to Louisa, "your father, Monsieur D'Aubrey, will, I am certain, do something for us."

But in this she was woefully mistaken, for Monsieur D'Aubrey was one of that blind sort who
place all their religion in forms and notions. He could smile and look very fond upon a man,
though not over moral, provided that man went to his church -- praised his preacher and opinions,
and abused everybody else; but would look very sour on the best man on earth who differed from
him in those things.  In short, he was destitute of love, the sole life of religion.  And though
on account of his wife's importunities and his daughter's repose, he had consented to her marriage
with Marion, yet he never liked the young `heretic', and therefore he read the order of his
banishment without any burst of grief, and made no effort to revoke the decrees of the church
against him, but abandoned him to his fate.

Such insensibility to her husband's interest distressed poor Louisa exceedingly.  However,
it had this good effect: It contributed greatly to lessen her regret at parting with her parents.

"O had they but loved me as you do, my Marion," said she, "could they have been so indifferent
when my all was at stake? No, indeed," continued she, "they could not," and burst into tears.

"Dearest Louisa!" replied he, tenderly embracing her, "would not I leave father and mother
and all for you?"

"Well," returned she, with eyes of love, outshining all diamonds, "and am I not going to leave
all for you?  Yet a few days and I shall have no father, no mother, no country; cut off from
all the world but you, Marion! alas! what will become of me if you should prove cruel to me?"

"Cruel! cruel to you, Louisa!  O my God, can that ever be?"

"Ah Marion! but some excellent women have left father and mother, and followed their husbands;
and yet, after all have been cruelly neglected by them!"

"Yes, Louisa; and God forgive them for that horrid crime! But to me such a deed were utterly
impossible.  I live for happiness, Louisa, I live for happiness, my angel.  And I find so much
happiness in loving, that I would as soon cease to live as cease to love.  Some indeed, `sordid
celebutes' for example, seem to exist without love; but it is only a seeming existence, most
joyless and imperfect. And they bear the dullness of apathy the better, because they have never
known the transports of affection.  But with me, my charmer, the case is happily different;
for at the moment I first saw those angel eyes, they infused a sweetness into my heart unknown
before. And those delicious sparks, fanned by your loves and graces, have now risen to such
a flame of bliss, that methinks, were it to go out, my life would go out with it.  Then, my
first and last, and only sweetheart, I pray you, do not fear that I shall ever cease to love
you: for indeed that can never be while you continue even half as lovely as you are at present."

"Well then, Marion," replied she, fondly pressing his ruddy cheeks to her heaving bosom, "if
it depends on me, on my constant affection and studiousness to please, you shall never love
me less; but more and more every day of your life."

The next morning, accompanied by Madame D'Aubrey, Marion and Louisa returned home in order
to make the best preparations, which the shortness of the time would allow, to quit their country
for ever.

In choosing his place of exile, it has been said that Marion's thoughts were at first turned
towards the West Indies.  But it would appear that Heaven had decreed for him a different direction.
For scarcely had he reached his home, much agitated about the means of getting off in time,
before a letter was brought him from an intimate friend in Rochelle, informing him that a large
ship, chartered for the Carolinas, by several wealthy Huguenot families, was then lying at
anchor under the Isle de Rhee.  Gratefully regarding this as a beckoning from heaven, they
at once commenced their work, and prosecuted it with such spirit, that on the evening of the
ninth day they embraced their weeping friends and went on board the ship.

It is said that many of the most respectable families of Carolina -- the Gourdines, Hugers,
Trapiers, Postells, Horrys, &c. came over in the same ship.

The next day, the clouds began to bank the eastern sky, and the winds to whistle from the hills.
Pleased with the darkly rippling waters, the ready ship got home her anchors and loosed her
sails. Then wheeling before the freshening gale, she bid adieu to her native shores, and on
wings of wide-spread canvas, commenced her foaming course for the western world.

But though mutual love and confidence in heaven were strong in the bosoms of young Marion and
his Louisa, yet could they not suppress the workings of nature, which would indulge her sorrows
when looking back on the lessening shores; they beheld dwindled to a point and trembling in
the misty sky, that glorious land, at once their own cradle and the sepulchre of their fathers.

Some natural tears they shed, but wiped them soon, for the earth was all before them where
to choose their place of rest; and Providence their guide.

But Marion and Louisa did not leave their country empty handed. Her Parents, 'tis supposed,
gave Louisa money, but what sum, after this long lapse of time, is uncertain.  Nor does tradition
say for how much Marion sold his little farm.  But it is well known that on their arrival in
Carolina, they went up into the country, and bought a plantation on Goose Creek, near Charleston,
where their dust now sleeps, after a long life endeared by mutual love, and surrounded by every
comfort that industry and prudence can bestow.

We have said that Marion left his country for the sake of his RELIGION: which appears to have
been of that cheerful sort for which a wise man would make any sacrifice.  It was the religion
of the gospel, that blessed philosophy which asks not a face of gloom, but a heart of joy.
And thereunto enjoin a supreme love of God, and a close walk with him in a pure and benevolent
life.  From this, the genuine spring of all the sweetest charities and joys of life, Marion
derived that cheerfulness which appears never to have failed him. Even in his last will, where
most men fancy they ought to be gloomy as the grave whither they are going, his cheerfulness
continued to shine with undiminished lustre.  It was like the setting of a cloudless sun: 
which, after pouring its fattening beams on the fields of a live-long summer's day, goes down
in smiles to rise a brighter beauty on another day.  This will is certainly an amiable curiosity,
and as it may be of service to the reader, by showing him how free and easy a good life makes
a man with death, I will record it:  at least the principal features of it, as I got them from
the family.

After having, in the good old way, bequeathed "his soul to God who gave it," and "his body
to the earth out of which it was taken," he proceeds in the manner following:

In the first place, as to debts, thank God, I owe none. And therefore shall give my executors
but little trouble on that score.

Secondly --  As to the poor, I have always treated them as my brethren. My dear family will,
I know, follow my example.

Thirdly --  As to the wealth with which God has been pleased to bless me and my dear Louisa
and children, lovingly we have labored together for it -- lovingly we have enjoyed it -- and
now, with a glad and grateful heart do I leave it among them.

He then proceeds to the distribution.  Liberally to his children: but far more so to his wife
-- and at the end of each bequest assigns his reasons, viz.,

  I give my ever beloved Louisa all my ready money --
    that she may never be alarmed at a sudden call.
  I give her all my fat calves and lambs, my pigs and poultry --
    that she may always keep a good table.
  I give her my new carriage and horses -- that she may visit her friends
    in comfort.
  I give her my family bible -- that she may live above
    the ill tempers and sorrows of life.
  I give my son Peter a hornbook -- for I am afraid he will always be a dunce.

But Peter was so stung with this little squib, that he instantly quit his raccoon hunting by
nights, and betook himself to reading, and soon became a very sensible and charming young man.

His eldest son, who, after his father, was named Gabriel, married a Miss Charlotte Corde, by
whom he had six children -- Esther, Gabriel, Isaac, Benjamin, Job, and our hero Francis, the
least as well as the last of the family.  They bought farms -- proved their oxen -- married
wives -- multiplied good children, and thus, very unlike our niggardly bachelors, contributed
a liberal and laudable part to the population, strength, and glory of their country. God, I
pray heartily, take kind notice of all such; and grant, that having thus done his will in this
world, they may partake of his glory in the next.

Chapter 2.

