"Are you a Moslem?" the fisherman inquired.

"Yes. Blessed be Allah for the right understanding!"

"So am I. Now let me see the master. I want to furnish him with fish for the season."

"He is engaged."

"I will wait for him. Tell him my catch is this morning's--red mullets and choice cuts from
a royal sword-fish that leaped ten feet in the air with the spear in his back."

Thereupon he deposited the tray, and took seat by it, much as to say, Time is of no consequence
to me. Ere long the Count appeared with the Dean. He glanced at the tray, then at the fisherman--to
the latter he gave a second look.

"What beautiful fish!" he said, to the Dean.

"Yes, yes--there are no fish pastures like those of our Bosphorus."

"How do you call this kind?"

"Mullets--red mullets. The old Romans used to fatten them in tanks."

"I thought I had seen their like on our Italian coasts. How do you prepare them for the table?"

"We fry them, Count, in olive oil--pure oil."

All this time Corti was studying the fisherman.

"What meal, pray, will fashion allow them to me dished?" he went on.

"For breakfast especially; though when you come to dine with His Majesty do not be surprised
to see them early in course."

"Pardon the detention, my Lord--I will make trial of these in the morning." Then to the fisherman
the Count said, carelessly: "Keep thy place until I return."

Corti saw the Dean out of the eastern gate of the enclosure, and returned.

"What, still here!" he said, to the dealer. "Well, go with the doorkeeper to the kitchen. The
cook will take what he needs for to-morrow." Speaking to the doorkeeper then: "Bring the man
to me. I am fond of fishing, and should like to talk with him about his methods. Sometime he
may be willing to take me with him."

By and by the monger was shown into the Count's room, where there was a table, with books and
writing material--a corner room full lighted by windows in the south and east. When they were
alone, the two gazed at each other.

"Ali, son of Abed-din!" said the Count. "Is it thou?"

"O Emir! All of me that is not fish is the Ali thou hast named."

"God is great!" the first exclaimed.

"Blessed be God!" the other answered.

They were acquaintances of long standing.

Then Ali took the red rag from his head, and from its folds produced a strip of fine parchment
with writing on it impervious to water. "Behold, Emir! It is for thee."

The Count received the scrip and read:

"This is he I promised to send. He has money for thee. Thou mayst trust him. Tell me this time
of thyself first; then of her; but always after of her first. My soul is scorching with impatience."

There was no date to the screed nor was it signed; yet the Count put it to his forehead and
lips. He knew the writing as he knew his own hand.

"O Ali!" he said, his eyes aglow. "Hereafter thou shalt be Ali the Faithful, son of Abed-din
the Faithful."

Ali replied with a rueful look: "It is well. What a time I have had waiting for you! Much I
fear my bones will never void the damps blown into them by the winter winds, and I perched
on the cross-sticks of a floating dallyan.... I have money for you, O Emir! and the keeping
it has given me care more than enough to turn another man older than his mother. I will bring
it to-morrow; after which I shall say twenty prayers to the Prophet--blessed be his name!--where
now I say one."

"No, not to-morrow, Ali, but the day after when thou bringest me another supply of fish. There
is danger in coming too often--and for that, thou must go now. Staying too long is dangerous
as coming too often.... But tell me of our master. Is he indeed the Sultan of Sultans he promised
to be? Is he well? Where is he? What is he doing?"

"Not so fast, O Emir, not so fast, I pray you! Better a double mouthful of stale porpoise fat,
with a fin bone in it, than so many questions at once."

"Oh, but I have been so long in the slow-moving Christian world without news!"

"Verily, O Emir, Padishah Mahommed will be greatest of the Gabour eaters since Padishah Othman--that
to your first. He is well. His bones have reached their utmost limit, but his soul keeps growing--that
to your second. He holds himself at Adrianople. Men say he is building mosques. I say he is
building cannon to shoot bullets big as his father's tomb; when they are fired, the faithful
at Medina will hear the noise, and think it thunder--that to your third. And as to his doing--
getting ready for war, meaning business for everybody, from the Shiek-ul-Islam to the thieving
tax-farmers of Bagdad--to the Kislar-Jinn of Abad-on with them. He has the census finished,
and now the Pachas go listing the able-bodied, of whom they have half a million, with as many
more behind. They say the young master means to make a sandjak of unbelieving Europe."

"Enough, Ali!--the rest next time."

The Count went to the table, and from a secret drawer brought a package wrapped in leather,
and sealed carefully.

"This for our Lord--exalted be his name! How wilt thou take it?"

Ali laughed.

"In my tray to the boat, but the fish are fresh, and there are flowers of worse odor in Cashmere.
So, O Emir, for this once. Next time, and thereafter, I will have a hiding-place ready."

"Now, Ali, farewell. Thy name shall be sweet in our master's ears as a girl-song to the moon
of Ramazan. I will see to it."

Ali took the package, and hid it in the bosom of his dirty shirt. When he passed out of the
front door, it lay undistinguishable under the fish and fish meat; and he whispered to the
Count in going: "I have an order from the Governor of the White Castle for my unsold stock.
God is great!"

Corti, left alone, flung himself on a chair. He had word from Mahommed-- that upon which he
counted so certainly as a charm in counteraction of the depression taking possession of his
spirit. There it was in his hand, a declaration of confidence unheard of in an Oriental despot.
Yet the effect was wanting. Even as he sat thinking the despondency deepened. He groped for
the reason in vain. He strove for cheer in the big war of which Ali had spoken--in the roar
of cannon, like thunder in Medina--in Europe a Sultanic sandjak. He could only smile at the
exaggeration. In fact, his trouble was the one common to every fine nature in a false position.
His business was to deceive and betray--whom? The degradation was casting its shadow before.
Heaven help when the eclipse should be full!

For relief he read the screed again: "Tell me this time of thyself first; then of her." ...
Ah, yes, the kinswoman of the Emperor! He must devise a way to her acquaintance, and speedily.
And casting about for it, he became restless, and finally resolved to go out into the city.
He sent for the chestnut Arab, and putting on the steel cap and golden spurs had from the Holy
Father was soon in the saddle.

It was about three o'clock afternoon, with a wind tempered to mildness by a bright sun. The
streets were thronged, while the balconies and overhanging windows had their groups on the
lookout for entertainment and gossip. As may be fancied the knightly rider and gallant barb,
followed by a dark-skinned, turbaned servant in Moorish costume, attracted attention. Neither
master nor man appeared to give heed to the eager looks and sometimes over-loud questions with
which they were pursued.

Turning northward presently, the Count caught sight of the dome of Sancta Sophia. It seemed
to him a vast, upturned silver bowl glistening in the sky, and he drew rein involuntarily,
wondering how it could be upheld; then he was taken with a wish to go in, and study the problem.
Having heard from Mahommed, he was lord of his time, and here was noble diversion.

In front of the venerable edifice, he gave his horse to the dark-faced servant, and entered
the outer court unattended.

A company, mixed apparently of every variety of persons, soldiers, civilians, monks, and women,
held the pavement in scattered groups; and while he halted a moment to survey the exterior
of the building, cold and grimly plain from cornice to base, he became himself an object of
remark to them. About the same time a train of monastics, bareheaded, and in long gray gowns,
turned in from the street, chanting monotonously, and in most intensely nasal tones. The Count,
attracted by their pale faces, hollow eyes and unkept beards, waited for them to cross the
court. Unkept their beards certainly were, but not white. This was the beginning of the observation
he afterward despatched to Mahommed: Only the walls of Byzantium remain for her defence; the
Church has absorbed her young men; the sword is discarded for the rosary. Nor could he help
remarking that whereas the frati of Italy were fat, rubicund, and jolly, these seemed in search
of death through the severest penitential methods. His thought recurring to the house again,
he remembered having heard how every hour of every day from five o'clock in the morning to
midnight was filled with religious service of some kind in Sancta Sophia.

A few stone steps the full length of the court led up to five great doors of bronze standing
wide open; and as the train took one of the latter and began to disappear, he chose another,
and walked fast in order to witness the entry. Brought thus into the immense vestibule, he
stopped, and at once forgot the gray brethren. Look where he might, at the walls, and now up
to the ceiling, every inch of space wore the mellowed brightness of mosaic wrought in cubes
of glass exquisitely graduated in color. What could he do but stand and gaze at the Christ
in the act of judging the world? Such a cartoon had never entered his imagination. The train
was gone when he awoke ready to proceed.

There were then nine doors also of bronze conducting from the vestibule. The central and larger
one was nearest him. Pushed lightly, it swung open on noiseless hinges; a step or two, and
he stood in the nave or auditorium of the Holy House.

