The Politician by his Example, no doubt, finding how the People are taken with specious, miraculous
Impossibilities, plays the same Game, protests, declares, promises, I know not what things,
which he is sure can ne’er be brought about. The People believe, are deluded, and pleased;
the Expectation of a future Good, which shall never befal them, draws their Eyes off of a present
Evil. Thus they are kept and establish’d in Subjection, Peace and Obedience, and he in Greatness,
Wealth, and Power: So you see the Politician is, and must be a Quack in State Affairs and the
Quack (no doubt if he thrives) is an Errant Politician in Physick.

  FINIS.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

                      The
                   BRITISH
                    ACADEMY:

                    being a
              New-Erected SOCIETY

                    for the
        Advancement of Wit and Learning:

                      with
          Some few OBSERVATIONS upon it.

    ----Hæ +Tibi+ erunt Artes:
    Pacisq; imponere Morem.      Virgil.

                   LONDON:

          Printed in the Year MDCCXII.

                Price Two-pence.

  The

  British Academy, &c.

Such is our Case at present, that if we have a Mind to be agreeably entertain’d with the State
of our own Affairs, we must look into Foreign Papers, rather than into those that are publish’d
here by Authority; and therefore I often read the Dutch Prints with the same Eagerness and
Pleasure, as the French at Paris read the Post Boy. If we have no good News for Our selves
here, we may sometimes find some from Holland; and what is good, is so rare, that I had rather
have it from any Place, than not at all. I was so delighted with the following Paragraph in
the Amsterdam Gazette of the 20th of May 1712. N.S. that I cou’d not help transcribing, and
turning it into English, that such Comfortable Tidings to Men of Obscure Merit, might be convey’d
all over the Nation. And I shall endeavour to prove, that the Design there mention’d, is much
likelier to succeed in England, than ever it was in France.

The Words of the Dutch Gazette are as follows, in the Article from London.

Il s’est formé ici depuis peu +une Societé pour recompenser & encourager le Mérite, par report
aux beaux Arts+. Elle doit être composée de 21 Membres, dont il y en a déja 19 d’Arretez savoir
les Ducs de Beaufort & d’Ormond; les Comites d’Arran & d’Orrery: les Lords Duplin, Gendre du
Grand Tresorier; Harley, Fils dudit Tresorier; Lansdowne, Secretaire des Guerres; Masham &
Bathurst: les Chevalier Windham: Messieurs St. Jean, Secretaire d’Etat: Harcourt Fils du Garde
des Seaux; Raymond Solliciteur-General; les Colonels Hill & Desney; Swif, Docteur en Theologie;
Prior Arbuthnott, Medicin de la Reine; & Friend, Medicin du Duc d’Ormond. Ces Messieurs, qui
ont reservé de Nommer les Deux autre, Membres lors qu’ils le jugeront à propos, s’assemblant
tous les Jeudis, & ont déja fait des gratifications à quelques Auteurs dont les ouvrages ont
été goûtez, & recommandé d’autres aux Ministres d’Etat pour avoir quelque Etablissement.

