SAINTS WHO HAVE HAD BODIES.

All doubtless remember the story which is told of the witty Charles II. and the Royal Society:
How one day the King brought to the attention of its members a most curious and inexplicable
phenomenon, which he stated thus: "When you put a trout into a pail full of water, why does
not the water overflow?" The savans, naturally enough, were surprised, and suggested many wise,
but fruitless explanations; until at last one of their number, having no proper reverence for
royalty in his heart, demanded that the experiment should actually be tried. Then, of course,
it was proved that there was no phenomenon to be explained. The water overflowed fast enough.
Indeed, it is chronicled that the evolutions of this lively member of the piscatory tribe were
so brisk, that the difficulty was the exact opposite of what was anticipated, namely, how to
keep the water in.

This story may be a pure fable, but the lesson it teaches is true and important. It illustrates
forcibly the facility with which even wise men accept doubtful propositions, and then apply
the whole power of their minds to explain them, and perhaps to defend them. Latterly one hears
constantly of the physical decay which threatens the American people, because of their unwise
and disproportioned stimulation of the brain. It is assumed, almost as an axiom, that there
is "a deficiency of physical health in America." Especially is it assumed that great mental
progress, either of races or of individuals, has been generally purchased at the expense of
the physical frame. Indeed, it is one of the questions of the day, how the saints, that is,
those devoted to literary and professional pursuits, shall obtain good and serviceable bodies;
or, to widen the query, how the finest intellectual culture can exist side by side with the
noblest physical development; or, to bring this question into a form that shall touch us most
sharply, how our boys and girls can obtain all needful knowledge and mental discipline, and
yet keep full of graceful and buoyant vitality.

What do we say to the theories and convictions which are underneath this language? What answer
shall we make to these questions? What answer ought we to make? Our first reply would be, We
doubt the proposition. We ask for the broad and firm basis of undoubted facts upon which it
rests. And we enter an opposite plea. We affirm that the saints have as good bodies as other
people, and that they always did have. We deny that they need to be patched up or watched over
any more than their neighbors. They live as long and enjoy as much as the rest of mankind.
They can endure as many hard buffets, and come out as tough and strong, as the veriest dolt
whose intellectual bark foundered in the unsounded depths of his primer. The world's history
through, the races which are best taught have the best endowment of health. Nay, in our own
New England, with just such influences, physical, mental, and moral, as actually exist, there
is no deterioration in real vitality to weep over.

We hold, then, on this subject very different opinions from those which prevail in many quarters.
We believe in the essential healthfulness of literary culture, and in the invigorating power
of sound knowledge. Emphatically do we believe that our common schools have been in the aggregate
a positive physical benefit. We are confident, that, just to the degree that the unseen force
within a man receives its rightful development, does vigorous life flow in every current that
beats from heart to extremities. With entire respect for the opinions of others, even while
we cannot concur with them, with a readiness to admit that the assertion of those opinions
may have been indirectly beneficial, we wish to state the truth as it looks to us, to exhibit
the facts which bear upon this subject in the shape and hue they have to our own minds, and
to give the grounds of our conviction that a cultivated mind is the best friend and ally of
the body.

       *       *       *       *       *

Would it not be singular, if anything different were true? You say, and you say rightly, that
the best part of a man is his mind and soul, those spiritual elements which divide him from
all the rest of the creation, animate or inanimate, and make him lord and sovereign over them
all. You say, and you say wisely, that the body, however strong and beautiful, is nothing,--that
the senses, however keen and vigorous, are nothing,--that the outward glories, however much
they may minister to sensual gratification, are nothing,--unless they all become the instruments
for the upbuilding of the immortal part in man. But what a tremendous impeachment of the wisdom
or power of the Creator you are bringing, if you assert that the development of this highest
part, whether by its direct influence on the body, or indirectly by the habits of life which
it creates, is destructive of all the rest, nay, self-destructive! You may show that every
opening bud in spring, and every joint, nerve, and muscle in every animate creature, are full
of proofs of wise designs accomplishing their purposes, and it shall all count for less than
nothing, if you can demonstrate that the mind, in its highest, broadest development, brings
anarchy into the system,--or, mark it well, produces, or tends to produce, habits of living
ruinous to health, and so ruinous to true usefulness. At the outset, therefore, the very fact
that the mind is the highest creation of Divine wisdom would force us to believe that that
development of it, that increase of knowledge, that sharpening of the faculties, that feeding
of intellectual hunger, which does not promote joy and health in every part, must be false
and illegitimate indeed.

And it is hardly too much to say, that, in a rational being, thought is almost synonymous with
vitality of all sorts. The brain throws out its network of nerves to every part of the body;
and those nerves are the pathways along which it sends, not alone physical volitions, but its
mental force and high intelligence, to mingle by a subtile chemistry with every fibre, and
give it a finer life and a more bounding elasticity. So one might foretell, before the study
of a single fact of experience, that, other things being equal, he who had few or no thoughts
would have not only a dormant mind, but also a sluggish and inert body, less active than another,
less enduring, and especially less defiant of physical ills. And one might prophesy, too, that
he who had high thoughts and wealth of knowledge would have stored up in his brain a magazine
of reserved power wherewith to support the faltering body: a prophecy not wide apart, perhaps,
from any broad and candid observation of human life.

And who can fail to remember what superior resources a cultivated mind has over one sunk in
sloth and ignorance,--how much wider an outlook, how much larger and more varied interests,
and how these things support when outward props fail, how they strengthen in misfortune and
pain, and keep the heart from anxieties which might wear out the body? Scott, dictating "Ivanhoe"
in the midst of a torturing sickness, and so rising, by force of a cultivated imagination,
above all physical anguish, to revel in visions of chivalric splendor, is but the type of men
everywhere, who, but for resources supplied by the mind, would have sunk beneath the blows
of adverse fortune, or else sought forgetfulness in brutalizing and destructive pleasures.
Sometimes a book is better far than medicine, and more truly soothing than the best anodyne.
Sometimes a rich-freighted memory is more genial than many companions. Sometimes a firm mind,
that has all it needs within itself, is a watchtower to which we may flee, and from which look
down calmly upon our own losses and misfortunes. He who does not understand this has either
had a most fortunate experience, or else has no culture, which is really a part of himself,
woven into the very texture of the soul. So, if there were no facts, considering the mind,
and who made it, and how it is related to the body, and how, when it is a good mind and a well-stored
mind, it seems to stand for all else, to be food and shelter and comfort and friend and hope,
who could believe anything else than that a well-instructed soul could do nought but good to
its servant the body?

       *       *       *       *       *

After all, we cannot evade, and we ought not to seek to evade, the testimony of facts. No cause
can properly stand on any theory, however pleasant and cheering, or however plausible. What,
then, of the facts, of the painful facts of experience, which are said to tell so different
a tale? This,--that the physical value of education is in no way so clearly demonstrated as
by these very facts. We know what is the traditional picture of the scholar,--pale, stooping,
hectic, hurrying with unsteady feet to a predestined early grave; or else morbid, dyspeptic,
cadaverous, putting into his works the dark tints of his own inward nature. At best, he is
painted as a mere bookworm, bleached and almost mildewed in some learned retirement beneath
the shadow of great folios, until he is out of joint with the world, and all fresh and hearty
life has gone out of him. Who cannot recall just such pictures, wherein one knows not which
predominates, the ludicrous or the pitiful? We protest against them all. In the name of truth
and common-sense alike, we indignantly reject them. We have a vision of a sturdier manhood:
of the genial, open countenance of an Irving; of the homely, honest strength that shone in
every feature of a Walter Scott; of the massive vigor of a Goethe or a Humboldt. How much,
too, is said of the physical degeneracy of our own people,--how the jaw is retreating, how
the frame is growing slender and gaunt, how the chest flattens, and how tenderly we ought to
cherish every octogenarian among us, for that we are seeing the last of them! If this is intended
to be a piece of pleasant badinage, far be it from us to arrest a single smile it may awaken.
But if it is given as a serious description, from which serious deductions can be drawn, then
we say, that, as a delineation, it is, to a considerable extent, purely fanciful,--as an argument,
utterly so. The facts, so far as they are ascertained, point unwaveringly to this conclusion,--that
every advance of a people in knowledge and refinement is accompanied by as striking an advance
in health and strength.

Try this question, if you please, on the largest possible scale. Compare the uneducated savage
with his civilized brother. His form has never been bent by confinement in the school-room.
Overburdening thoughts have never wasted his frame. And if unremitting exercise amid the free
airs of heaven will alone make one strong, then he will be strong. Is the savage stronger?
Does he live more years? Can he compete side by side with civilized races in the struggle for
existence? Just the opposite is true. Our puny boys, as we sometimes call them, in our colleges,
will weigh more, lift more, endure more than any barbarian race of them all. This day the gentle
Sandwich-Islanders are wasting like snow-wreaths, in contact with educated races. This day
our red men are being swept before advancing civilization like leaves before the breath of
the hurricane. And it requires no prophet's eye to see, that, if we do not give the black man
education as well as freedom, an unshackled mind as well as unshackled limbs, he, too, will
share the same fate.

To all this it may naturally be objected, that the reason so many savage races do not display
the greatest physical stamina is not so much intellectual barrenness as their vices, native
or acquired,--or because they bring no wisdom to the conduct of life, but dwell in smoky huts,
eat unhealthy food, go from starvation to plethora and from plethora to starvation again, exchange
the indolent lethargy which is the law of savage life for the frantic struggles of war or the
chase which diversify and break up its monotony. Allow the objection; and then what have we
accomplished, but carrying the argument one step back? For what are self-control and self-care,
but the just fruits of intelligence? But in truth it is a combination of all these influences,
and not any of them alone, that enables the civilized man to outlive and outrival his barbarian
brother. He succeeds, not simply because of the superior address and sagacity which education
gives him, though that, no doubt, has much to do with it; not altogether because his habits
of life are better, though we would not underrate their value; but equally because the culture
of the brain gives a finer life to every red drop in his arteries, and greater hardihood to
every fibre which is woven into his flesh. If it is not so, how do you explain the fact that
our colored soldier, fighting in his native climate, with the same exposure in health and the
same care in sickness, succumbs to wounds and diseases over which his white comrade triumphs?
Or how will you explain analogous facts in the history of disease among other uneducated races?
Our explanation is simple. As the slightest interfusion of carbon may change the dull iron
into trenchant steel, so intelligence working through invisible channels may add a new temper
to the physical nature. And thus it may be strictly true that it is not only the mind and soul
which slavery and ignorance wrong, but the body just as much.

       *       *       *       *       *

It may be said, and perhaps justly, that a comparison between races so unlike is not a fair
comparison. Take, then, if you prefer, the intelligent and unintelligent periods in the history
of the same race. The old knights! Those men with mail-clad bodies and iron natures, who stand
out in imagination as symbols of masculine strength! The old knights! They were not scholars.
Their constitutions were not ruined by study, or by superfluous sainthood of any kind. They
were more at home with the sword than the pen. They loved better "to hear the lark sing than
the mouse squeak." So their minds were sufficiently dormant. How was it with their bodies?
Were they sturdier men? Did they stand heavier on their feet than their descendants? It is
a familiar fact that the armor which inclosed them will not hold those whom we call their degenerate
children. A friend tells me that in the armory of London Tower there are preserved scores,
if not hundreds, of the swords of those terrible Northmen, those Vikings, who, ten centuries
ago, swept the seas and were the dread of all Europe, and that scarcely one of them has a hilt
large enough to be grasped by a man of this generation. Of races who have left behind them
no methodical records, and whose story is preserved only in the rude rhymes of their poets
and ruder chronicles, it is not safe to make positive affirmations; but all the indications
are that the student of to-day is a larger and stronger man than the warrior of the Middle Ages.

If we come down to periods of historical certainty, no one will doubt that the England of the
present hour is more educated than the England of fifty years ago, or that the England of fifty
years since had a broader diffusion of intelligence than the England of a century previous.
Yet that very intelligence has prolonged life. An Englishman lives longer to-day than he did
in 1800, and longer yet than in 1700. Here is a curious proof. Annuities calculated on a certain
rate of life in 1694 would yield a fortune to those who issued them. Calculated at the same
rate in 1794, they would ruin them; for the more general diffusion of knowledge and refinement
had added, I am not able to say how many years to the average British life. Observe how this
statement is confirmed by some wonderful statistics preserved at Geneva. From 1600 to 1700
the average length of life in that city was 13 years 3 months. From 1700 to 1750 it was 27
years 9 months. From 1750 to 1800, 31 years 3 months. From 1800 to 1833, 43 years 6 months.

One more pertinent fact. Take in England any number of families you please, whose parents can
read and write, and an equal number of families whose parents cannot read and write, and the
number of children in the latter class of families who will die before the age of five years
will greatly exceed that in the former class,--some thirty or forty per cent. So surely does
a thoughtful ordering of life come in the train of intelligence. If faith is to be placed in
statistics of any sort, then it holds true in foreign countries that human life is long in
proportion to the degree that knowledge, refinement, and virtue are diffused. That is, sainthood,
so far from destroying the body, preserves it.

       *       *       *       *       *

I anticipate the objection which may be made to our last argument. Abroad, we are told, there
is such an element of healthy, out-door life, that any ill effects which might naturally follow
in the train of general education are neutralized. Abroad, too, education with the masses is
elementary, and advanced also with more moderation than with us. Abroad, moreover, the whole
social being is not pervaded with the intense intellectual activity and fervor which are so
characteristic especially of New England life.

Come home, then, to our own Massachusetts, which some will have is school-mad. What do you
find? Here, in a climate proverbially changeable and rigorous,--here, where mental and moral
excitements rise to fever-heat,--here, where churches adorn every landscape, and school-houses
greet us at every corner, and lyceums are established in every village,--here, where newspapers
circulate by the hundred thousand, and magazines for our old folks, and "Our Young Folks,"
too, reach fifty thousand,--here, in Massachusetts, health is at its climax: greater and more
enduring than in bonnie England, or vine-clad France, or sunny Italy. I read some statistics
the other day, and I have ever since had a greater respect for the land of "east-winds, and
salt-fish and school-houses," as scandalous people have termed Massachusetts. What do these
statistics say? That, while in England the deaths reach annually 2.21 per cent of the whole
population, and in France 2.36 per cent, and in Italy 2.94 per cent, and in Austria 3.34 per
cent, in Massachusetts, the deaths are only 1.82 per cent annually. Even in Boston, with its
large proportion of foreign elements, the percentage of deaths is only 2.35. It may be said,
in criticism of these statements, that in our country statistics are not kept with sufficient
accuracy to furnish correct data. However this may be in our rural districts, it certainly
is not true of the metropolis. The figures are not at hand, but they exist, and they prove
conclusively that those wards in Boston which have a population most purely native reach a
salubrity unexcelled. So that, with all the real drawbacks of climate, and the pretended drawbacks
of unnatural or excessive mental stimulus, the health here is absolutely unequalled by that
of any country in Europe. Certainly, if the mental and moral sainthood which we have does not
build up the body, it cannot be said that it does any injury to it.

