The whole of St. James's Park is now included in the City of Westminster, but only the south-east
part is in the parish of St. Margaret's, which we are now considering. The remainder will be
found described in the parish of St. Martin's-in-the-Fields, which is included in the electoral
district of the Strand in the same series. In "The Strand District" there are also full accounts
of St. James's Palace, and of Buckingham Palace.

The spot now known as St. James's Park was once a dismal marshy field. In 1531 Henry VIII.
obtained some of the land from the Abbey of Westminster, and in the following year he proceeded
to erect what is now St. James's Palace, on the site of a former leper hospital. The park,
however, seems to have remained in a desolate condition until the reign of James I., who took
a great interest in it, and established a menagerie here which he often visited. The popularity
of the park continued throughout the Stuart period. Charles II. after the Restoration employed
a Frenchman, Le Nôtre, to lay out the grounds, and under his advice the canal was formed from
the chain of pools that spread across the low-lying ground, and also a decoy, where ducks and
wildfowl resorted. Rosamund's Pond, an oblong pool, lay at the south-west end of the canal.
Of the origin of this name there is no record, though Rosamund's land is mentioned as early
as 1531. A new Mall was laid out soon after the Restoration, and preserved with great care.
Powdered cockleshells were sprinkled over the earth to keep it firm. As the game of pall-mall
went out of fashion the Mall became a promenade, and was the resort of the Court. A pheasant-walk
was also formed where Marlborough House now stands. There are two ancient views of the park
extant, in one of which the heads of Cromwell, Ireton and Bradshaw stuck upon poles at the
end of Westminster Hall are visible, and in the other, a figure walking in the foreground is
supposed to be Charles II. himself. The park was not opened to the public at this time, but
those whose houses bordered it appear to have been allowed free entrance. Milton, the poet,
certainly strolled here from his house in Petty France.

Charles II. himself frequently used it, and kept his pet animals here, and the lords and ladies
of his time made it their fashionable rendezvous. The park is mentioned constantly by Pepys
and Evelyn. A couple of oaks planted by Charles from acorns brought from Boscobel survived
until 1833, when they were blown down.

The origin of the name of Birdcage Walk has been disputed. It has been derived from "boccage,"
meaning avenue; another account says it was from the bird-cages of the King's aviary, which
were hung in the trees. This seems more probable.

For many reigns St. James's Park continued to be a fashionable place of resort. In 1770 Rosamund's
Pond was filled up, and the moat round Duck Island was filled in. In 1779 a gentleman was killed
in a duel in the park.

In 1827-29 the park was finally laid out and the canal converted into a piece of ornamental
water under the superintendence of Nash. In 1857 the lake was cleared out to a uniform depth
of four feet and the present bridge erected, and the park became something like what we see
at the present time. The vicinity of Marlborough House and Buckingham Palace still give it
a certain distinction, but it cannot be called in any sense fashionable, as it was in the later
Stuart times. And in the midst of the park we must take leave of our present district, having
rambled within its borders east and west, north and south, and having met in the process the
ghosts of kings and queens, of statesmen and authors, of men of the Court and men of the Church,
those who have made history in the past and laid the foundations for the glory of the future.

INDEX

Abbey, The, 45

Almonry, 34, 36

