Jacob said to the men, "My friends, from where do you come?" And he said, "See, the sun is
still high! It is not time for the cattle to be gathered together. And when Jacob told Rachel
that he was a relative of her father and that he was Rebekah's son, she ran and told her father.

As soon as Laban heard about Jacob, his sister's son, he ran to meet him, put his arms around
him, kissed him many times, and brought him to his home. So he remained with him a whole month.

Then Laban said to Jacob, "Should you serve me for nothing simply because you are related to
me? Tell me what shall be your wages?"

Then Jacob said to Laban, "Give me my wife, for my time is up, and let me marry her." In the
evening he took Leah his daughter and brought her to him, and Jacob received her as his wife.

When in the morning Jacob found it was Leah, he said to Laban, "What is this you have done
to me? Did I not serve you for Rachel? Why then have you deceived me?" Laban said, "It is not
the custom among us to give the younger in marriage before the older. Remain with this one
during the marriage week, then we will give you the other also for the service which you shall
give me during seven more years." Jacob did so: he remained with Leah during the marriage week.
Then Laban gave him Rachel his daughter to be his wife, but Jacob loved Rachel more than Leah.
So he had to serve Laban seven years more.

MEETING A BROTHER WHO HAD BEEN WRONGED

In time Jacob became very wealthy, and he had large flocks, slaves, and asses. He also saw
that Laban did not act toward him the same as before. So Jacob rose and put his sons and his
wives upon the camels and drove away all his cattle. He deceived Laban, for he did not tell
him that he was fleeing away. So he fled across the river Euphrates, with all that he had,
and set out on his way toward Mount Gilead.

Then Jacob sent messengers before him to his brother Esau. And he gave them this command, "Say
to my lord Esau: 'Your servant Jacob declares, I have lived with Laban and have stayed until
now. I have oxen and asses, flocks and slaves, and I have sent to tell my lord, in order that
I may win your favor.'" The messengers returned to Jacob with the report, "We came to your
brother Esau, even as he was coming to meet you with four hundred men."

Then Jacob was greatly alarmed and worried. So he divided the people that were with him and
the flocks and the herds and the camels into two parts and said, "If Esau comes to the one
and attacks and destroys it, then the other which is left can escape." These he put, each drove
by itself, in the care of his servants and said to them, "Go on before me and leave a space
between the droves."

He gave those in front this command: "When my brother Esau meets you and asks you, 'To whom
do you belong? and where are you going? and whose are these before you?' then you shall say,
'To your servant Jacob; it is a present sent by him to my lord Esau; and Jacob himself is just
behind us.'" Jacob also commanded the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves,
to make the same answer, and to say, "Jacob himself is just behind us." For he said to himself,
"I will please him with the present that goes before me, and then, when I meet him, perhaps
he will welcome me." So he sent the present over before him; but he himself spent that night
in the camp.

Later that night he rose up and took his two wives, his two maid servants, and his eleven children,
and sent them over the river Jabbok.

