But something was to make Larry wonder even more a few minutes later. Dick, that habitual late
riser, had had to hurry away that morning without speaking to him. Now, when he came home toward
six o'clock, Dick shouted cheerily from the hallway:

"Ahoy! Where you anchored, Captain Nemo?"

Larry did not answer. He sat over his papers as one frozen. He knew now whose had been the
elusively familiar voice he had heard outside Maggie's door. It was Dick Sherwood's.

Dick paused without to take some messages from Judkins, and Larry's mind raced feverishly.
Dick Sherwood was the victim Maggie and Barney and Old Jimmie were so cautiously and elaborately
trying to trim! It seemed an impossible coincidence. But no, not impossible, after all. Their
net had been spread for just such game: a young man, impressionable, pleasure-loving, with
plenty of money, and with no strings tied to his spending of it. That Barney should have made
his acquaintance was easily explained; to establish acquaintance with such persons as Dick
was Barney's specialty. What more natural than that the high-spirited, irresponsible Dick should
fall into this trap?--or indeed that he should have been picked out in advance as the ideal
victim and have been drawn into it?

"Hello, there!" grumbled Dick, entering. "Why didn't you answer a shipmate's hail?"

"I heard you; but just then I was adding a column of figures, and I knew you'd look in."

At that moment Larry noted the portrait of Maggie, looking up from the chair beside him. With
a swiftness which he tried to disguise into a mechanical action, he seized the painting and
rolled it up, face inside.

"What's that you've got?" demanded Dick.

"Just a little daub of my own."

"So you paint, too. What else can you do? Let's have a look."

"It's too rotten. I'd rather let you see something else--though all my stuff is bad."

"You wouldn't do any little thing, would you, to brighten this tiredest hour in the day of
a tired business man," complained Dick. "I've really been a business man to-day, Captain. Worked
like the devil--or an angel--whichever works the harder."

He lit a cigarette and settled with a sigh on the corner of Larry's desk. Larry regarded him
with a stranger and more contradicting mixture of feelings than he had ever thought to contain:
solicitude for Dick--jealousy of him--and the instinct to protect Maggie. This last seemed
to Larry grotesquely absurd the instant it seethed up in him, but there the instinct was: was
Dick treating Maggie right?

"How was the show last night, Dick?"

"Punk!"

"I thought you said you were to see 'The Jest.' I've heard it's one of the best things for years."

"Oh, I guess the show's all right. But the company was poor. My company, I mean. The person
I wanted to see couldn't come."

"Hope you had a supper party that made up for the disappointment," pursued Larry, adroitly
trying to lead him on.

"I sure had that, Captain!"

Dick slid to a chair beside Larry, dropped a hand on Larry's knee, and said in a lowered tone:

"Captain, I've recently met a new girl--and believe me, she's a knock-out!"

"Better keep clear of those show girls, Dick."

"Never again! The last one cured me for life. Miss Cameron--Maggie Cameron, how's that for
a name?--is no Broadway girl, Captain. She's not even a New York girl."

"No?"

"She's from some place out West. Father owned several big ranches. She says that explains her
crudeness. Her crude? I should say not! They don't grow better manners right here in New York.
And she's pretty, and clever, and utterly naive about everything in New York. Though I must
say," Dick added, "that I'm not so keen about her cousin and her uncle. I'd met the cousin
a few times the last year or two around town; he belongs here. The two are the sort of poor
stock that crops out in every good family. They've got one merit, though: they don't try to
impose on her too much."

"What is your Miss Cameron doing in New York?"

"Having her first look at the town before going to some resort for the summer; perhaps taking
a cottage somewhere. I say, Captain"--leaning closer--"I wish you didn't feel you had to stick
around this apartment so tight. I'd like to take you out and introduce you to her."

Larry could imagine the resulting scene if ever this innocently proposed introduction were given.

"I guess that for the present I'll have to depend upon your reports, Dick."

"Well, you can take it from me that she's just about all right!"

It was Larry's strange instinct to protect Maggie that prompted his next remark:

"You're not just out joy-riding, are you, Dick?"

Dick flushed. "Nothing of that sort. She's not that kind of girl. Besides--I think it's the
real thing, Captain."

The honest look in Dick's eyes, even more than his words, quieted Larry's fear for Maggie.
Presently Dick walked out leaving Larry yet another problem added to his life. He could not
let anything happen to Maggie. He could not let anything happen to Dick. He had to protect
each; he had to do something. Yet what could he do?

Yes, this certainly was a problem! He paced the room, another victim of the ancient predicament
of divided and antagonistic duty.

CHAPTER XIX

The night of Larry's unexpected call upon her at the Grantham, Maggie had pulled herself together
and aided by the imposing Miss Grierson had done her best as ingenue hostess to her pseudo-cousin,
Barney, and her pseudo-uncle, Old Jimmie, and to their quarry, Dick Sherwood, whom they were
so cautiously stalking. But when Dick had gone, and when Miss Grierson had withdrawn to permit
her charge a little visit with her relatives, Barney had been prompt with his dissatisfaction.

"What was the matter with you to-night, Maggie?" he demanded. "You didn't play up to your usual
form."

"If you don't like the way I did it, you may get some one else," Maggie snapped back.

"Aw, don't get sore. If I'm stage-managing this show, I guess it's my business to tell you
how to act the part, and to tell you when you're endangering the success of the piece by giving
a poor performance."

"Maybe you'd better get some one else to take my part right now."

Maggie's tone and look were implacable. Barney moved uneasily. That was the worst about Maggie:
she wouldn't take advice from any one unless the advice were a coincidence with or an enlargement
of her own wishes, and she was particularly temperish to-night. He hastened to appease her.

"I guess the best of us have our off days. It's all right unless"--Barney hesitated, business
fear and jealousy suddenly seizing him--"unless the way you acted tonight means you don't intend
to go through with it?"

"Why shouldn't I go through with it?"

"No reason. Unless you acted as you did to-night because"--again Barney hesitated; again jealousy
prompted him on--"because you've heard in some way from Larry Brainard. Have you heard from Larry?"

Maggie met his gaze without flinching. She would take the necessary measures in the morning
with Miss Grierson to keep that lady from indiscreet talking.

"I have not heard from Larry, and if I had, it wouldn't be any of your business, Barney Palmer!"

He chose to ignore the verbal slap in his face of her last phrase. "No, I guess you haven't
heard from Larry. And I guess none of us will hear from him--not for a long time. He's certainly
fixed himself for fair!"

"He sure has," agreed Old Jimmie.

Maggie said nothing.

"Seems to me we've got this young Sherwood hooked," said Old Jimmie, who had been impatient
during this unprofitable bickering. "Seems to me it's time to settle just how we're going to
get his dough. How about it, Barney?"

"Plenty of time for that, Jimmie. This is a big fish, and we've got to be absolutely sure we've
got him hooked so he can't get off. We've got to play safe here; it's worth waiting for, believe
me. Besides, all the while Maggie's getting practice."

"Seems to me we ought to make our clean-up quick. So that--so that--"

"See here--you think you got some other swell game you want to use Maggie in?"

Old Jimmie's shifty gaze wavered before Barney's glare.

"No. But she's my daughter, ain't she?"

"Yes. But who's running this?" Barney demanded. Thank Heavens, Old Jimmie was one person he
did not have to treat like a prima donna!

"You are."

"Then shut up, and let me run it!"

"You might at least tell if you've decided how you're going to run it," persisted Old Jimmie.

"Will you shut up!" snapped Barney.

Old Jimmie said no more. And having asserted his supremacy over at least one of the two, Barney
relented and condescended to talk, lounging back in his chair with that self-conscious grace
which had helped make him a figure of increasing note in the gayer restaurants of New York.

It did not enter into Barney's calculations, present or for the future, to make Maggie the
mistress of any man. Not that Barney was restrained by moral considerations. The thing was
just bad business. Such a woman makes but comparatively little; and what is worse, if she chooses,
she makes it all for herself. And Barney, in his cynical wisdom of his poor world, further
knew that the average man enticed into this poor trap, after the woman has said yes, and after
the first brief freshness has lost its bloom, becomes a tight-wad and there is little real
money to be got from him for any one.

"It's like this: once we've got this Sherwood bird safely hooked," expanded Barney with the
air of an authority, flicking off his cigarette ash with his best restaurant manner, "we can
play the game a hundred ways. But the marriage proposition is the best bet, and there are two
best ways of working that."

"Which d'you think we ought to use, Barney?" inquired Old Jimmie.

But Barney went on as if the older man had not asked a question. "Both ways depend upon Sherwood
being crazy in love, and upon his coming across with a proposal and sticking to it. The first
way, after being proposed to, Maggie must break down and confess she's married to a man she
doesn't love and who doesn't love her. This husband would probably give her a divorce, but
he's a cagy guy and is out for the coin, and if he smelled that she wanted to remarry some
one with money he would demand a large price for her freedom. Maggie must further confess that
she really has no money, and is therefore helpless. Then Sherwood offers to meet the terms
of this brute of a husband. If Sherwood falls for this we shove in a dummy husband who takes
Sherwood's dough--and a big bank roll it will be!--and that'll be the last Sherwood'll ever
see of Maggie."

Old Jimmie nodded. "When it's worked right, that always brings home the kale."

"The only question is," continued Barney, "can Maggie put that stuff over? How about it, Maggie?
Think you're good enough to handle a proposition like that?"

Looking the handsome Barney straight in the eyes, Maggie for the moment thought only of his
desire to manage her and of the challenge in his tone. Larry and the appeal he had made to
her were forgotten, as was also Dick Sherwood.

"Anything you're good enough to think up, Barney Palmer, I guess I'm good enough to put over,"
she answered coolly.

And then: "What's the other way?" she asked.

"Old stuff. Have to be a sure-enough marriage. Sherwoods are big-time people, you know; a sister
who's a regular somebody. After marriage, family permitted to learn truth--perhaps something
much worse than truth. Family horrified. They pay Maggie a big wad for a separation--same as
so many horrified families get rid of daughters-in-law they don't like. Which of the ways suits
you best, Maggie?"

Maggie shrugged her shoulders with indifference. It suited her present mood to maintain her
attitude of being equal to any enterprise.

"Which do you like best, Barney?" Old Jimmie asked.

"The second is safer. But then it's slower; and there would be lawyers' fees which would eat
into our profits; and then because of the publicity we might have to wait some time before
it would be safe to use Maggie again. The first plan isn't so complicated, it's quick, and
at once we've got Maggie free to use in other operations. The first looks the best bet to me--but,
as I said, we don't have to decide yet. We can let developments help make the actual decision
for us."

Barney did not add that a further reason for his objecting to the second plan was that he didn't
want Maggie actually tied in marriage to any man. That was a relationship his hopes were reserving
for himself.

Barney's inborn desire for acknowledged chieftainship again craved assertion and pressed him
on to say:

"You see, Maggie, how much depends on you. You've got a whale of a chance for a beginner. I
hope you take a big brace over to-night and play up to the possibilities of your part."

"You take care of your end, and I'll take care of mine!" was her sharp retort.

Barney was flustered for a moment by his second failure to dominate Maggie. "Oh, well, we'll
not row," he tried to say easily. "We understand each other, and we're each trying to help
the other fellow's game--that's the main point."

The two men left, Jimmie without kissing his daughter good-night. This caused Maggie no surprise.
A kiss, not the lack of it, would have been the thing that would have excited wonder in Maggie.

Barney went away well satisfied on the whole with the manner in which the affair was progressing,
and with his management of it and of Maggie. Maggie was obstinate, to be sure; but he'd soon
work that out of her. He was now fully convinced of the soundness of his explanation of Maggie's
poor performance of that night: she had just had an off day.

As for Maggie, after they had gone she sat up long, thinking--and her thoughts reverted irresistibly
to Larry. His visit had been most distracting. But she was not going to let it affect her purpose.
If anything, she was more determined than ever to be what she had told him she was going to
be, to prove to him that he could not influence her.

She tried to keep her mind off Larry, but she could not. He was for her so many questions.
How had he escaped?--thrown off both police and old friends? Where was he now? What was he
doing? And when and how was he going to reappear and interfere?--for Maggie had no doubt, now
that she knew him to be in New York, that he would come again; and again try to check her.

And there was a matter which she no more understood than Larry, and this was another of her
questions: Why had she gone into a panic and aided his escape?

Of course, she now and then thought of Dick Sherwood. She rather liked Dick. But thus far she
regarded him exactly as her scheme of life had presented him to her: as a pleasant dupe who,
in an exciting play in which she had the thrilling lead, was to be parted from his money. She
was rather sorry for him; but this was business, and her sorrow was not going to interfere
with what she was going to do.

Maggie Cameron, at this period of her life, was not deeply introspective. She did not realize
what, according to other standards, this thing was which she was doing. She was merely functioning
as she had been taught to function. And if any change was beginning in her, she was thus far
wholly unconscious of it.

CHAPTER XX

Larry's new problem was the most difficult and delicate dilemma of his life--this divided loyalty:
to balk Maggie and the two men behind her without revealing the truth about Maggie to Dick,
to protect Dick without betraying Maggie. It certainly was a trying, baffling situation.

He had no such foolish idea that he could change Maggie by exposing her. At best he would merely
render her incapable of continuing this particular course; he would increase her bitterness
and hostility to him. Anyhow, according to the remnants of his old code, that wouldn't be playing
fair--particularly after her aiding his escape when he had been trapped.

Upon only one point was he clear, and on this he became more settled with every hour: whatever
he did he must do with the idea of a fundamental awakening in Maggie. Merely to foil her in
this one scheme would be to solve the lesser part of his problem; Maggie would be left unchanged,
or if changed at all the change would be toward a greater hardness, and his major problem would
be made more difficult of solution.

He considered many ways. He thought of seeing Maggie again, and once more appealing to her.
That he vetoed, not because of the danger to himself, but because he knew Maggie would not
see him; and if he again did break in upon her unexpectedly, in her obstinate pride she would
heed nothing he said. He thought of seeing Barney and Old Jimmie and somehow so throwing the
fear of God into that pair that they would withdraw Maggie from the present enterprise; but
even if he succeeded in so hazardous an undertaking, again Maggie would be left unchanged.
He thought of showing Miss Sherwood the hidden portrait of Maggie, of telling her all and asking
her aid; but this he also vetoed, for it seemed a betrayal of Maggie.

He kept going back to one plan: not a plan exactly, but the idea upon which the right plan
might be based. If only he could adroitly, with his hand remaining unseen, place Maggie in
a situation where circumstances would appeal conqueringly to her best self, to her latent sense
of honor--that was the idea! But cudgel his brain as he would, Larry could not just then develop
a working plan whose foundation was that idea.

But even if Larry had had a brilliant plan it would hardly have been possible for him to have
devoted himself to its execution, for two days after his visit to Maggie at the Grantham, the
Sherwoods moved out to their summer place some forty miles from the city on the North Shore
of Long Island; and Larry was so occupied with routine duties pertaining to this migration
that at the moment he had time for little else. Cedar Crest was individual yet typical of the
better class of Long Island summer residences. It was a long white building of many piazzas
and many wings, set on a bluff looking over the Sound, with a broad stretch of silken lawn,
and about it gardens in their June glory, and behind the house a couple of hundred acres of
scrub pine.

On the following day, according to a plan that had been worked out between Larry and Miss Sherwood,
Joe Ellison appeared at Cedar Crest and was given the assistant gardener's cottage which stood
apart on the bluff some three hundred yards east of the house. He was a tall, slightly bent,
white-haired man, apparently once a man of physical strength and dominance of character and
with the outer markings of a gentleman, but now seemingly a mere shadow of the forceful man
of his prime. As a matter of fact, Joe Ellison had barely escaped that greatest of prison scourges,
tuberculosis.

The roses were given over to his care. For a few brief years during the height of his prosperity
he had owned a small place in New Jersey and during that period had seemingly been the country
gentleman. Flowers had been his hobby; so that now he could have had no work which would have
more suited him than this guardianship of the roses. For himself he desired no better thing
than to spend what remained of his life in this sunlit privacy and communion with growing things.

He gripped Larry's hand when they were first alone in the little cottage. "Thanks, Larry; I'll
not forget this," he said. He said little else. He did not refer to his prison life, or what
had gone before it. He had never asked Larry, even while in prison together, about Larry's
previous activities and associates; and he asked no questions now. Apparently it was the desire
of this silent man to have the bones of his own past remain buried, and to leave undisturbed
the graves of others' mistakes.

A retiring, unobtrusive figure, he settled quickly to his work. He seemed content, even happy;
and at times there was a far-away, exultant look in his gray eyes. Miss Sherwood caught this
on several occasions; it puzzled her, and she spoke of it to Larry. Larry understood what lay
behind Joe's bearing, and since the thing had never been told to him as a secret he retold
that portion of Joe's history he had recited to the Duchess: of a child who had been brought
up among honorable people, protected from the knowledge that her father was a convict--a child
Joe never expected to see and did not even know how to find.

Joe Ellison became a figure that moved Miss Sherwood deeply: content to busy himself in his
earthly obscurity, ever dreaming and gloating over his one great sustaining thought--that he
had given his child the best chance which circumstances permitted; that he had removed himself
from his child's life; that some unknown where out in the world his child was growing to maturity
among clean, wholesome people; that he never expected to make himself known to his child. The
situation also moved Larry profoundly whenever he looked at his old friend, merging into a
kindly fellowship with the earth.

But while busy with new affairs at Cedar Crest, Larry was all the while thinking of Maggie,
and particularly of his own dilemma regarding Maggie and Dick. But the right plan still refused
to take form in his brain. However, one important detail occurred to him which required immediate
attention. If his procedure in regard to Hunt's pictures succeeded in drawing the painter from
his hermitage, nothing was more likely than that Hunt unexpectedly would happen upon Maggie
in the company of Dick Sherwood. That might be a catastrophe to Larry's unformed plan; it had
to be forestalled if possible. Such a matter could not be handled in a letter, with the police
opening all mail coming to the Duchess's house. So once more he decided upon a secret visit
to the Duchess's house. He figured that such a visit would be comparatively without risk, since
the police and Barney Palmer and the gangsters Barney had put upon his trail all still believed
him somewhere in the West.

Accordingly, a few nights after they had settled at Cedar Crest, he motored into New York in
a roadster Miss Sherwood had placed at his disposal, and after the necessary precautions he
entered Hunt's studio. The room was dismantled, and Hunt sat among his packed belongings smoking
his pipe.

"Well, young fellow," growled Hunt after they had shaken hands, "you see you've driven me from
my happy home."

"Then Mr. Graham has been to see you?"

"Yes. And he put up to me your suggestion about a private exhibition. And I fell for it. And
I've got to go back among the people I used to know. And wear good clothes and put on a set
of standardized good manners. Hell!"

"You don't like it?"

"I suppose, if the exhibition is a go, I'll like grinning at the bunch that thought I couldn't
paint. You bet I'll like that! You, young fellow--I suppose you're here to gloat over me and
to try to collect your five thousand."

"I never gloat over doing such an easy job as that was. And I'm not here to collect my bet.
As far as money is concerned, I'm here to give you some." And he handed Hunt the check made
out to "cash" which Mr. Graham had sent him for the Italian mother.

"Better keep that on account of what I owe you," advised Hunt.

"I'd rather you'd hold it for me. And better still, I'd rather call the bet off in favor of
a new bargain."

"What's the new proposition for swindling me?"

"You need a business nursemaid. What commission do you pay dealers?"

"Been paying those burglars forty per cent."

"That's too much for doing nothing. Here's my proposition. Give me ten per cent to act as your
personal agent, and I'll guarantee that your total percentage for commissions will be less
than at present, and that your prices will be doubled. Of course I can't do much while the
police and others are so darned interested in me, so if you accept we'll just date the agreement
from the time I'm cleared."

"You're on, son--and we'll just date the agreement from the present moment, A.D." Again Hunt
gripped Larry's hand. "You're all to the good, Larry--and I'm not giving you half enough."

That provided Larry with the opening he had desired. "You can make it up to me."

"How?"

"By helping me out with a proposition of my own. To come straight to the point, it's Maggie."

"Maggie?"

"I guess you know how I feel there. She's got a wrong set of ideas, and she's fixed in them--and
you know how high-spirited she is. She's out in the world now, trying to put something crooked
over which she thinks is big. I know what it is. I want to stop her, and change her. That's
my big aim--to change her. The only way I can at this moment stop what she is now doing is
by exposing her. And mighty few people with a wrong twist are ever set right by merely being
exposed."

"I guess you're right there, Larry."

"What I want is a chance to try another method on Maggie. If she's handled right I think she
may turn out a very different person from what she seems to be--something that may surprise
both of us."

Hunt nodded. "That was why I painted her picture. Since I first saw her I've been interested
in how she was going to come out. She might become anything. But where do I fit in?"

"She's flying in high company. It occurred to me that, when you got back to your own world,
you might meet her, and in your surprise you might speak to her in a manner which would be
equivalent in its effect to an intentional exposure. I wanted to put you on your guard and
to ask you to treat her as a stranger."

"That's promised. I won't know her."

"Don't promise till you know the rest."

"What else is there to know?"

"Who the sucker is they're trying to trim." Larry regarded the other steadily. "You know him.
He's Dick Sherwood."

"Dick Sherwood!" exploded Hunt. "Are you sure about that?"

"I was with Maggie the other night when Dick came to have supper with her; he didn't see me.
Besides, Dick has told me about her."

"How did they ever get hold of Dick?"

"Dick's the easiest kind of fish for two such smooth men as Barney and Old Jimmie when they've
got a clever, good-looking girl as bait, and when they know how to use her. He's generous,
easily impressed, thinks he is a wise man of the world and is really very gullible."

"Have they got him hooked?"

"Hard and fast. It won't be his fault if they don't land him."

The painter gazed at Larry with a hard look. Then he demanded abruptly:

"Show Miss Sherwood that picture of Maggie I painted?"

"No. I had my reasons."

"What you going to do with it?"

"Keep it, and pay you your top price for it when I've got the money."

"H'm! Told Miss Sherwood what's doing about Dick?"

"No."

"Why not?"

"I thought of doing it, then I decided against it. For the same reason I just gave you--that
it might lead to exposure, and that exposure would defeat my plans."

"You seem to be forgetting that your plan leaves Dick in danger. Dick deserves some consideration."

"And I'm giving it to him," argued Larry. "I'm thinking of him as much as of Maggie. Or almost
as much. His sister and friends have pulled him out of a lot of scrapes. He's not a bit wiser
or better for that kind of help. And it's not going to do him any good whatever to have some
one step in and take care of him again. He's been a good friend to me, but he's a dear fool.
I want to handle this so he'll get a jolt that will waken him up--make him take his responsibilities
more seriously--make him able to take care of himself."

"Huh!" grunted Hunt. "You've certainly picked out a few man-sized jobs for yourself: to make
a success of the straight life for yourself--to come out ahead of the police and your old pals--to
make Maggie love the Ten Commandments--to put me across--to make Dick into a level-headed citizen.
Any other little item you'd like to take on?"

Larry ignored the irony of the question. "Some of those things I'm going to do," he said confidently.
"And any I see I'm going to fail in, I'll get warning to the people involved. But to come back
to your promise: are you willing to give your promise now that you know all the facts?"

Hunt pulled for a long moment at his pipe. Then he said almost gruffly:

"I guess you've guessed that Isabel Sherwood is about the most important person in the world
to me?"

That was the nearest Hunt had ever come to telling that he loved Miss Sherwood. Larry nodded.

"I'm in bad there already. Suppose your foot slips and everything about Dick goes wrong. What'll
be my situation when she learns I've known all along and have just stood by quietly and let
things happen? See what I'll be letting myself in for?"

"I do," said Larry, his spirits sinking. "And of course I can understand your decision not
to give your promise."

"Who said I wouldn't give my promise?" demanded Hunt. "Of course I give my promise! All I said
was that the weather bureau of my bad toe predicts that there's likely to be a storm because
of this--and I want you to use your brain, son, I want you to use your brain!"

He upreared his big, shag-haired figure and gripped Larry's hand. "You're all right, Larry--and
here's wishing you luck! Now get to hell out of here before Gavegan and Casey drop in for a
cup of tea, or your old friends begin target practice with their hip artillery. I want a little
quiet in which to finish my packing.

"And say, son," he added, as he pushed Larry through the door, "don't fall dead at the sight
of me when you see me next, for I'm likely to be walking around inside all the finery and vanity
of Fifth Avenue."

CHAPTER XXI

Larry came down the stairway from Hunt's studio in a mood of high elation. Through Hunt's promise
of cooperation he had at least made a start in his unformed plan regarding Maggie. Somehow,
he'd work out and put across the rest of it.

Then Hunt's prediction of the trouble that might rise through his silence recurred to Larry.
Indeed, that was a delicate situation!--containing all kinds of possible disasters for himself
as well as for Hunt. He would have to be most watchful, most careful, or he would find himself
entangled in worse circumstances than at present.

As he came down into the little back room, his grandmother was sitting over her interminable
accounts, each of which represented a little profit to herself, some a little relief to many,
some a tragedy to a few; and many of which were in code, for these represented transactions
of a character which no pawnshop, particularly one reputed to be a fence, wishes ever to have
understood by those presumptive busy-bodies, the police. When Larry had first entered, she
had merely given him an unsurprised "good-evening" and permitted him to pass on. But now, as
he told her good-night and turned to leave, she said in her thin, monotonous voice:

"Sit down for a minute, Larry. I want to talk to you."

Larry obeyed. "Yes, grandmother."

