If the King had wanted to fight, he might still have defended himself, saved himself, and even
been victorious.[2676]--In the Tuileries, 950 of the Swiss Guard and 200 gentlemen stood ready
to die for him to the last man. Around the Tuileries, two or three thousand National Guard,
the élite of the Parisian population, had just cheered him as he passed.[2677] "Hurrah for
the King! Hurrah for Louis XVI.! He is our King and we want no other; we want him only! Down
with the rioters! Down with the Jacobins! We will defend him unto death! Let him put himself
at our head! Hurrah for the Nation, the Law, the Constitution, and the King, which are all
one! If the gunners were silent, and seemed ill-disposed,[2678] it was simply necessary to
disarm them suddenly, and hand over their pieces to loyal men. Four thousand rifles and eleven
pieces of artillery, protected by the walls of the courts and by the thick masonry of the palace,
were certainly sufficient against the nine or ten thousand Jacobins in Paris, most of them
pikemen, badly led by improvised or rebellious battalion officers,[2679] and, still worse,
commanded by their new general, Santerre, who, always cautious, kept himself aloof in the Hôtel-de-ville,
out of harm's way. The only staunch men in the Carrousel were the eight hundred men from Brest
and Marseilles; the rest consisted of a rabble like that of July 14, October 5, and June 20;[2680]
the palace, says Napoleon Bonaparte, was attacked by the vilest canaille, professional rioters,
Maillard's band, and the bands of Lazowski, Fournier, and Théroigne, by all the assassins,
indeed of the previous night and day, and of the following day, which species of combatants,
as was proved by the event, would have scattered at the first discharge of a cannon.--But,
with the governing as with the governed, all notion of the State was lost, the former through
humanity become a duty, and the latter through insubordination erected into a right. At the
close of the eighteenth century, in the upper as well as in the middle class, there was a horror
of blood;[2681] refined social ways, coupled with an idyllic imagination, had softened the
militant disposition. Everywhere the magistrates had forgotten that the maintenance of society
and of civilization is a benefit of infinitely greater importance than the lives of a parcel
of maniacs and malefactors; that the prime object of government, as well as of a police, is
the preservation of order by force; that a gendarme is not a philanthropist; that, if attacked
on his post, he must use his sword, and that, in sheathing it for fear of wounding his aggressors,
he fails to do his duty.

This time again, in the court of the Carrousel, the magistrates on the spot, finding that "their
responsibility is insupportable," concern themselves only with how to "avoid the effusion of
blood;" it is with regret, and this they state to the troops, "in faltering tones," that they
proclaim martial law.[2682] They "forbid them to attack," merely "authorizing them to repel
force with force;" in other words, they order them to stand up to the first fire; "you are
not to fire until you are fired upon."--Still better, they go from company to company, "openly
declaring that opposition to such a large and well-armed assemblage would be folly, and that
it would be a very great misfortune to attempt it."--"I repeat to you," said Leroux, "that
a defense seems to me madness."--Such is the way in which, for more than an hour, they encourage
the National Guard. "All I ask," says Leroux again, "is that you wait a little longer. I hope
that we shall induce the King to yield to the National Assembly."--Always the same tactics:
hand the fortress and the general over rather than fire on the mob. To this end they return
to the King, with Roederer at their head, and renew their efforts: "Sire," says Roederer, "time
presses, and we ask you to consent to accompany us."--For a few moments, the last and most
solemn of the monarchy, the King hesitates.[2683] His good sense, probably, enabled him to
see that a retreat was abdication; but his phlegmatic understanding is at first unable to clearly
define its consequences; moreover, his optimism had never explored the vastness of the stupidity
of the people, nor sounded the depths of human malice and spite; he cannot imagine that slander
may transform his determination not to shed blood into a desire to shed blood.[2684] Besides,
he is bound by his past, by his habit of always yielding; by his determination, declared and
maintained for the past three years, never to cause civil war; by his obstinate humanitarianism,
and especially by his religious goodwill. He has systematically extinguished in himself the
animal instinct of resistance, the flash of anger in all of us which starts up under unjust
and brutal aggressions; the Christian has supplanted the King; he is no longer aware that duty
obliges him to be a man of the sword that, in his surrender, he surrenders the State, and that
to yield like a lamb is to lead all honest people, along with himself, to the slaughterhouse.
"Let us go," said he, raising his right hand; "we will give, since it is necessary, one more
proof of our self-sacrifice."[2685] Accompanied by his family and Ministers, he sets out between
two lines of National Guards and the Swiss Guard,[2686] and reaches the Assembly, which sends
a deputation to meet him; entering the chamber he says: "I come here to prevent a great crime.
"--No pretext, indeed, for a conflict now exists. An assault on the insurgent side is useless,
since the monarch, with all belonging to him and his government, have left the palace. On the
other side, the garrison will not begin the fight; diminished by 150 Swiss and nearly all the
grenadiers of the Filles-Saint-Thomas, who served as the King's escort to the Assembly, it
is reduced to a few gentlemen, 750 Swiss, and about a hundred National Guards; the others,
on learning that the King is going, consider their services at an end and disperse.[2687]--All
seems to be over in the sacrifice of royalty. Louis XVI. imagines that the Assembly, at the
worst, will suspend him from his functions, and that he will return to the Tuileries as a private
individual. On leaving the palace, indeed, he orders his valet to keep up the service until
he himself returns from the National Assembly.[2688]

He did not count on the exigencies, blindness and disorders of the riot. Threatened by the
Jacobin gunners remaining with their artillery in the inside courts, the gatekeepers open the
gates. The insurgents rush in, fraternise with the gunners, reach the vestibule, ascend the
grand staircase, and summon the Swiss to surrender.[2689]--These show no hostile spirit; many
of them, as a mark of good humor, throw packets of cartridges out of the windows; some even
go so far as to let themselves be embraced and led away. The regiment, however, faithful to
its orders, will not yield to force.[2690] "We are Swiss," replies the sergeant, Blaser; "the
Swiss do not part with their arms but with their lives. We think that we do not merit such
an insult. If the regiment is no longer wanted, let it be legally discharged. But we will not
leave our post, nor will we let our arms be taken from us." The two bodies of troops remain
facing each other on the staircase for three-quarters of an hour, almost intermingled, one
silent and the other excited, turbulent, and active, with all the ardor and lack of discipline
peculiar to a popular gathering, each insurgent striving apart, and in his own way, to corrupt,
intimidate, or constrain the Swiss Guards. Granier, of Marseilles, at the head of the staircase,
holds two of them at arms' length, trying in a friendly manner to draw them down.[2691] At
the foot of the staircase the crowd is shouting and threatening; lighter men, armed with boat-hooks,
harpoon the sentinels by their shoulder-straps, and pull down four or five, like so many fishes,
amid shouts of laughter.--Just at this moment a pistol goes off; nobody being able to tell
which party fired it.[2692] The Swiss, firing from above, clean out the vestibule and the courts,
rush down into the square and seize the cannon; the insurgents scatter and fly out of range.
The bravest, nevertheless, rally behind the entrances of the houses on the Carrousel, throw
cartridges into the courts of the small buildings and set them on fire. During another half-hour,
under the dense smoke of the first discharge and of the burning buildings, both sides fire
haphazard, while the Swiss, far from giving way, have scarcely lost a few men, when a messenger
from the King arrives, M. d'Hervilly, who orders in his name the firing to cease, and the men
to return to their barracks.

Slowly and regularly they form in line and retire along the broad alley of the garden. At the
sight of these foreigners, however, in red coats, who had just fired on Frenchmen, the guns
of the battalion stationed on the terraces go off of their own accord, and the Swiss column
divides in two. One body of 250 men turns to the right, reaches the Assembly, lays down its
arms at the King's order, and allows itself to be shut up in the Feuillants church. The others
are annihilated on crossing the garden, or cut down on the Place Louis XV. by the mounted gendarmerie.
No quarter is given. The warfare is that of a mob, not civilized war, but primitive war, that
of barbarians. In the abandoned palace into which the insurgents entered five minutes after
the departure of the garrison,[2693] they kill the wounded, the two Swiss surgeons attending
to them,[2694] the Swiss who had not fired a gun, and who, in the balcony on the side of the
garden, "cast off their cartridge-boxes, sabers, coats, and hats, and shout: 'Friends, we are
with you, we are Frenchmen, we belong to the nation!'"[2695] They kill the Swiss, armed or
unarmed, who remain at their posts in the apartments. They kill the Swiss gate-keepers in their
boxes. They kill everybody in the kitchens, from the head cook down to the pot boys.[2696]
The women barely escape. Madame Campan, on her knees, seized by the back, sees an uplifted
saber about to fall on her, when a voice from the foot of the staircase calls out: "What are
you doing there? The women are not to be killed!" "Get up, you hussy, the nation forgives you!"--To
make up for this the nation helps itself and indulges itself to its heart's content in the
palace which now belongs to it. Some honest persons do, indeed, carry money and valuables to
the National Assembly, but others pillage and destroy all that they can.[2697] They shatter
mirrors, break furniture to pieces, and throw clocks out of the window; they shout the Marseilles
hymn, which one of the National Guards accompanies on a harpsichord,[2698] and descend to the
cellars, where they gorge themselves. "For more than a fortnight," says an eye witness,[2699]
"one walked on fragments of bottles." In the garden, especially, "it might be said that they
had tried to pave the walks with broken glass."--Porters are seen seated on the throne in the
coronation robes; a trollop occupies the Queen's bed; it is a carnival in which unbridled base
and cruel instincts find plenty of good forage and abundant litter. Runaways come back after
the victory and stab the dead with their pikes. Nicely dressed prostitutes fooling around with
naked corpses.[26100] And, as the destroyers enjoy their work, they are not disposed to be
disturbed in it. In the courts of the Carrousel, where 1800 feet of building are burning, the
firemen try four times to extinguish the fire; "they are shot at, and threatened with being
pitched into the flames,"[26101] while petitioners appear at the bar of the Assembly, and announce
in a threatening tone that the Tuileries are blazing, and shall blaze until the dethronement
becomes a law.

The poor Assembly, become Girondist through its late mutilation, strives in vain to arrest
the downhill course of things, and maintain, as it has just sworn to do, "the constituted authorities";[26102]
it strives, at least, to put Louis XVI. in the Luxembourg palace, to appoint a tutor for the
Dauphin, to keep the ministers temporarily in office, and to save all prisoners, and those
who walk the streets. Equally captive, and nearly as prostrate as the King himself; the Assembly
merely serves as a recording office for the popular will, that very morning furnishing evidence
of the value which the armed commonalty attaches to its decrees. That morning murders were
committed at its door, in contempt of its safe conduct; at eight o'clock Suleau and three others,
wrested from their guards, are cut down under its windows. In the afternoon, from sixty to
eighty of the unarmed Swiss still remaining in the church of the Feuillants are taken out to
be sent to the Hôtel-de-ville, and massacred on the way at the Place de Grève. Another detachment,
conducted to the section of the Roule, is likewise disposed of in the same way.[26103] Carle,
at the head of the gendarmerie, is called out of the Assembly and assassinated on the Place
Vendôme, and his head is carried about on a pike. The founder of the old monarchical club,
M. de Clermont-Tonnerre, withdrawn from public life for two years past, and quietly passing
along the streets, is recognized, dragged through the gutter and cut to pieces.--After such
warnings (murder and pillage) the Assembly can only obey, and, as usual, conceal its submission
beneath sonorous words. If the dictatorial committee, self-imposed at the Hôtel-de-ville, still
condescends to keep it alive, it is owing to a new investiture,[26104] and by declaring to
it that it must not meddle with its doings now or in the future. Let it confine itself to its
function, that of rendering decrees made by the faction. Accordingly, like fruit falling from
a tree vigorously shaken, these decrees rattle down, one after another, into the hands that
await them,[26105]

1. the suspension of the King,

2. the convoking of a national convention,

3. electors and the eligible exempted from all property qualifications,

4. an indemnity for displaced electors,

5. the term of Assemblies left to the decision of the electors,[26106]

6. the removal and arrest of the late ministers,

7. the re-appointment of Servan, Clavières and Roland,

8. Danton as Minister of Justice,

9. the recognition of the usurping Commune,

10. Santerre confirmed in his new rank,

11. the municipalities empowered to look after general safety,

12. the arrest of suspicious persons confided to all well-disposed citizens,[26107]

13. domiciliary visits prescribed for the discovery of arms and ammunition,[26108]

14. all the justices of Paris to be re-elected by those within their jurisdiction,

15. all officers of the gendarmerie subject to re-election by their soldiers,[26109]

16. thirty sous per diem for the Marseilles troops from the day of their arrival,

17. a court-martial against the Swiss,

18. a tribunal for the dispatch of justice against the vanquished of August 10, and a quantity
of other decrees of a still more important bearing:

19. the suspension of the commissioners appointed to enforce the execution of the law in civil
and criminal courts,[26110]

20. the release of all persons accused or condemned for military insubordination, for press
offenses and pillaging of grain,[26111]

21. the partition of communal possessions,[26112]

22. the confiscation and sale of property belonging to émigrés,[26113]

23. the relegation of their fathers, mothers, wives and children into the interior,

24. the banishment or transportation of unsworn ecclesiastics,[26114]

25. the establishment of easy divorce at two months' notice and on demand of one of the parties,[26115]
in short, every measure is taken which tend to disturb property, break up the family, persecute
conscience, suspend the law, pervert justice, and rehabilitate crime. laws are promulgated
to deliver:

* the judicial system,

* the full control of the nation,

* the selection of the members of the future omnipotent Assembly,

* in short, the entire government,

to an autocratic, violent minority, which, having risked all to grab the dictatorship, dares
all to keep it.[26116]

VIII.--State of Paris in the Interregnum.

     The mass of the population.--Subaltern Jacobins.--The
     Jacobin leaders.

Let us stop a moment to contemplate this great city and its new rulers.--From afar, Paris seems
a club of 700,000 fanatics, vociferating and deliberating on the public squares; near by, it
is nothing of the sort. The slime, on rising from the bottom, has become the surface, and given
its color to the stream; but the human stream flows in its ordinary channel, and, under this
turbid exterior, remains about the same as it was before. It is a city of people like ourselves,
governed, busy, and fond of amusement. To the great majority, even in revolutionary times,
private life, too complex and absorbing, leaves but an insignificant corner for public affairs.
Through routine and through necessity, manufacturing, display of wares, selling, purchasing,
keeping accounts, trades, and professions, continue as usual. The clerk goes to his office,
the workman to his shop, the artisan to his loft, the merchant to his warehouse, the professional
to his cabinet, and the official to his duty;[26117] they are devoted, first of all, to their
pursuits, to their daily bread, to the discharge of their obligations, to their own advancement,
to their families, and to their pleasures; to provide for these things the day is not too long.
Politics only briefly distract them, and then rather out of curiosity, like a play one applauds
or hisses in his seat without stepping upon the stage.--"The declaration that the country is
in danger," says many eye witnesses,[26118] "has made no change in the physiognomy of Paris.
There are the same amusements, the same gossip.... The theaters are full as usual. The wine-shops
and places of diversion overflow with the people, National Guards, and soldiers.... The fashionable
world enjoys its pleasure-parties,"--"The day after the decree, the effect of the ceremony,
so skillfully managed, is very slight. "The National Guard in the procession, writes a patriotic
journalist,[26119] "first shows indifference and even boredom"; it is exasperated with night
watches and patrol duty; they probably tell each others that in parading for the nation, one
finds no time to work for one's self.--A few days after this the manifesto of the Duke of Brunswick
"produces no sensation whatever. People laugh at it. Only the newspapers and their readers
are familiar with it... . The mass know nothing about it. Nobody fears the coalition nor foreign
troops."[26120]--On the 10th of August, outside the theater of the combat, all is quiet in
Paris. People walk about and chat in the streets as usual."[26121]--On the 19th of August,
Moore, the Englishman,[26122] sees, with astonishment, the heedless crowd filling the Champs
Elysées, the various diversions, the air of a fête, the countless small shops in which refreshments
are sold accompanied with songs and music, and the quantities of pantomimes and marionettes.
"Are these people as happy as they seem to be?" he asks of a Frenchman along with him.--"They
are as jolly as gods!"--"Do you think the Duke of Brunswick is ever in their heads?"--"Monsieur,
you may be sure of this, that the Duke of Brunswick is the last man they think of."

Such is the unconcern or light-heartedness of the gross, egoistic mass, otherwise busy, and
always passive under any government whatever it may be, a veritable flock of sheep, allowing
government to do as it pleases, provided it does not hinder it from browsing and capering as
it chooses.--As to the men of sensibility who love their country, they are still less troublesome,
for they are gone or going (to the army), often at the rate of a thousand and even two thousand
a day, ten thousand in the last week of July,[26123] fifteen thousand in the first two weeks
of September,[26124] in all perhaps 40,000 volunteers furnished by the capital alone and who,
with their fellows proportionate in number supplied by the departments, are to be the salvation
of France.--Through this departure of the worthy, and this passivity of the flock, Paris belongs
to the fanatics among the population. "These are the sans-culottes," wrote the patriotic Palloy,
"the scum and riffraff of Paris, and I glory in belonging to that class which has put down
the so-called honest folks."[26125]--"Three thousand workmen," says the Girondist Soulavie,
later, "made the Revolution of the 10th of August, against the kingdom of the Feuillants, the
majority of the capital and against the Legislative Assembly."[26126] Workmen, day laborers,
and petty shop-keepers, not counting women, common vagabonds and regular bandits, form, indeed,
one-twentieth of the adult male population of the city, about 9,000 spread over all sections
of Paris, the only ones to vote and act in the midst of universal stupor and indifference.--We
find in the Rue de Seine, for example, seven of them, Lacaille, keeper of a roasting-shop;
Philippe, "a cattle-breeder, who leads around she-asses for consumptives," now president of
the section, and soon to become one of the Abbaye butchers; Guérard, "a Rouen river-man who
has abandoned the navigation of the Seine on a large scale and keeps a skiff, in which he ferries
people over the river from the Pont du Louvre to the Quai Mazarin," and four characters of
the same stamp. Their energy, however, replaces their lack of education and numerical inferiority.
One day, Guérard, on passing M. Hua, the deputy, tells him in the way of a warning, "You big
rascal, you were lucky to have other people with you. If you had been alone, I would have capsized
my boat, and had the pleasure of drowning a blasted aristocrat!" These are the "matadors of
the quarter".[26127]--Their ignorance does not trouble them; on the contrary, they take pride
in coarseness and vulgarity. One of the ordinary speechmakers of the Faubourg Saint-Antoine,
Gouchon, a designer for calicos, comes to the bar of the Assembly, "in the name of the men
of July 14 and Augusts 10," to glorify the political reign of brutal incapacity; according
to him, it is more enlightened than that of the cultivated:[26128] "those great geniuses graced
with the fine title of Constitutionalists are forced to do justice to men who never studied
the art of governing elsewhere than in the book of experience.... Consulting customs and not
principles, these clever people have for a long period been busy with the political balance
of things; we have found it without looking for it in the heart of man: Form a government which
will place the poor above their feeble resources and the rich below their means, and the balance
will be perfect." [26129]

This is more than clear, their declared purpose is a complete leveling, not alone of political
rights, but, again, and especially, of conditions and fortunes; they promise themselves "absolute
equality, real equality," and, still better, "the magistracy and all government powers."[26130]
France belongs to them, if they are bold enough to seize hold of it.--And, on the other hand,
should they miss their prey, they feel themselves lost, for the Brunswick manifesto,[26131]
which had made no impression on the public, remains deeply impressed in their minds. They apply
its threats to themselves, while their imagination, as usual, translates it into a specific
legend:[26132] all the inhabitants of Paris are to be led out on the plain of Saint-Denis,
and there decimated; previous to this, the most notorious patriots will be singled out together
with forty or fifty market-women and broken on the wheel. Already, on the 11th of August, a
rumor is current that 800 men of the late royal guards are ready to make a descent on Paris;[26133]
that very day the dwelling of Beaumarchais is ransacked for seven hours;[26134] the walls are
pierced, the privies sounded, and the garden dug down to the rock. The same search is repeated
in the adjoining house. The women are especially "enraged at not finding anything," and wish
to renew the attempt, swearing that they will discover where things are hidden in ten minutes.
The nightmare is evidently too much for these unballasted minds. They break down under the
weight of their accidental kingship, their inflamed pride, extravagant desires, and intense
and silent fears which form in them that morbid and evil concoction which, in democracy as
well as in a monarchy, fashions a Nero.[26135]

Their leaders, who are even more upset, conceited, and despotic, have no scruples holding them
back, for the most noteworthy are corrupt, acting alone or as leaders. Of the three chiefs
of the old municipality, Pétion, the mayor, actually in semi-retirement, but verbally respected,
is set aside and considered as an old decoration. The other two remain active and in office,
Manuel,[26136] the syndic-attorney, son of a porter, a loud-talking, untalented bohemian, stole
the private correspondence of Mirabeau from a public depository, falsified it, and sold it
for his own benefit. Danton,[26137] Manuel's deputy, faithless in two ways, receives the King's
money to prevent the riot, and makes use of it to urge it on.--Varlet, "that extraordinary
speech-maker, led such a foul and prodigal life as to bring his mother in sorrow to the grave;
afterwards he spent what was left, and soon had nothing."[26138]--Others not only lacked honor
but even common honesty. Carra, with a seat in the secret Directory of the Federates, and who
drew up the plan of the insurrection, had been condemned by the Mâcon tribunals to two years'
imprisonment for theft and burglary.[26139] Westermann, who led the attacking column, had stolen
a silver dish, with a coat of arms on it, from Jean Creux, keeper of a restaurant, rue des
Poules, and was twice sent away from Paris for swindling.[26140] Panis, chief of the Committee
of Supervision,[26141] was turned out of the Treasury Department, where his uncle was a sub
cashier, in 1774, for robbery. His colleague, Sergent, appropriates to himself "three gold
watches, an agate ring, and other jewels," left with him on deposit.[26142] "Breaking seals,
false charges, breaches of trust," embezzlements, are familiar transactions. In their hands
piles of silver plate and 1,100,000 francs in gold are to disappear.[26143] Among the members
of the new Commune, Huguenin, the president, a clerk at the barriers, is a brazen embezzler.[26144]
Rossignol, a journeyman jeweller, implicated in an assassination, is at this moment subject
to judicial prosecution.[26145] Hébert, a journalistic garbage bag, formerly check-taker in
a theatre, is turned away from the Variétés for larceny.[26146] Among men of action, Fournier,
the American, Lazowski, and Maillard are not only murderers, but likewise robbers,[26147] while,
by their side, arises the future general of the Paris National Guard, Henriot, at first a domestic
in the family of an attorney who turned him out for theft, then a tax-clerk, again turned adrift
for theft, and, finally, a police spy, and still incarcerated in the Bicêtre prison for another
theft, and, at last, a battalion officer, and one of the September executioners.[26148]--Simultaneously
with the bandits and rascals, monstrous maniacs come out of their holes. De Sades,[26149] who
lived the life of "Justine" before he wrote it, and whom the Revolution delivered from the
Bastille, is secretary of the section of the Place Vendôme. Marat, the homicidal monomaniac,
constitutes himself, after the 23rd of August, official journalist at the Hôtel-de-ville, political
advisor and consciousness of the new Commune, and the obsessive plan, which he preaches for
three years, is merely an instant and direct wholesale butchery.

"Give me," said he to Barbaroux,[26150] "two hundred Neapolitans armed with daggers, and with
only a hand-kerchief on their left arms for a buckler, and I will overrun France and build
the Revolution."

According to him it is necessary to do away with 260,000 men "on humane grounds," for, unless
this is done, there is no safety for the rest.

"The National Assembly may still save France; let it decree that all aristocrats shall wear
a blue ribbon, and the moment that three of them are seen in company, let them be hung."

Another way would be

"to lay in wait in dark streets and at corners for the royalists and Feuillants, and cut their
throats. Should ten patriots happen to be killed among a hundred men, what does it matter?
It is only ninety for ten, which prevents mistakes. Fall upon those who own carriages, employ
valets, wear silk coats, or go to the theatres. You may be sure that they are aristocrats."

The Jacobin proletariat has obviously found the leadership that suits them. They will get on
with each other without difficulty. In order that this spontaneous massacre may become an administrative
measure, the Neros of the gutter have but to await the word of command from the Neros of the
Hôtel-de-ville.

*****

[Footnote 2601: An expression of Lafayette's in his address to the Assembly.]

[Footnote 2602:Lafayette, "Mémoires," I. 452.--Malouet (II. 213) states that there were seventy.]

[Footnote 2603:Cf., for example, "Archives Nationales," A.F. II.116. Petition of 228 notables
of Montargis.]

[Footnote 2604: Petition of the 20,000, so-called, presented by Messrs. Guillaume and Dupont
de Nemours.--Cf.. Mortimer-Ternaux, I. 278.--According to Buchez et Roux, the petition containing
only 7,411 names.]

[Footnote 2605: Mortimer-Ternaux, I.277.]

[Footnote 2606: Moniteur, XIII. 89. The act (July 7) is drawn up with admirable precision and
force. On comparing it with the vague, turgid exaggerations of their adversaries, it seems
to measure the intellectual distance between the two parties.]

[Footnote 2607: 339 against 224--Roederer ("Chronique des cinquante jours," p.79). "A strong
current of opinion by a majority of the inhabitants of Paris sets in favor of the King."--C.
Desmoulins; "That class of petty traders and shopkeepers, who are more afraid of the revolutionaries
than of so many Uhlans... "]

[Footnote 2608: Mortimer-Ternaux, I. 236. Letter of Roederer to the president of the National
Assembly, June 25. "Mr. President, I have the honor to inform the Assembly that an armed mob
is marching towards the Château."]

[Footnote 2609: Mortimer-Ternaux, I. 245, 246.--II. 81, 131, 148, 170.]

[Footnote 2610: The murder of M. Duhamel, sub-lieutenant of the national guard.]

[Footnote 2611: Letter of Vergniaud and Guadet to the painter Boze (in the "Mémoires de Dumouriez").--Roederer,
"Chronique des cinquante jours," 295.--Bertrand de Molleville, "Mémoires," III. 29.]

[Footnote 2612: Moniteur, XIII. 155 (session of July 16).--Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 69. "Favored
by you," says Manuel, "all citizens are entitled to visit the first functionary of the nation...
The prince's dwelling should be open, like a church. Fear of the people is an insult to the
people. If Louis XVI. possessed the soul of a Marcus Aurelius, he would have descended into
his gardens and tried to console a hundred thousand beings, on account of the slowness of the
Revolution... Never had there been fewer thieves in the Tuileries than on that day; for the
courtiers had fled...The red cap was an honor to Louis XVI's head, and ought to be his crown."
At this solemn moment the fraternization of the king with the people took place, and "the next
day the same king betrayed, calumniated, and disgraced the people!" Manuel's rigmarole surpasses
all that can be imagined. "After this there arises in the panelings of the Louvre, at the confluence
of the civil list, another channel, which leads through the shades below to Pétion's dungeon...
The department, in dealing a blow at the municipality, explains how, at the banquet of the
Law, it represents the Law in the form of a crocodile, etc."]

[Footnote 2613: Moniteur, XIII. 93 (session of July 9);--27 (session of July 2).]

[Footnote 2614: Moniteur, XII. 751 (session of June 24); XIII.33 (session of July 3).]

[Footnote 2615: Moniteur, XIII. 224 (session of July 23). Two unsworn priests had just been
massacred at Bordeaux and their heads carried through the streets on pikes. Ducos adds: "Since
the executive power has put its veto on laws repressing fanaticism, popular executions begin
to be repeated. If the courts do not render justice, etc."--Ibid., XIII. 301 (session of July 31).]

[Footnote 2616: Moniteur, XIII. 72 (session of July 7). The king's speech to the Assembly after
the Lamourette kiss. "I confess to you, M. President, that I was very anxious for the deputation
to arrive, that I might hasten to the Assembly."]

[Footnote 2617: Moniteur, XIII. 313 (session of Aug. 3). The declaration read in the king's
name must be weighed sentence by sentence; it sums up his conduct with perfect exactness and
thus ends: "What are personal dangers to a king, from whom they would take the love of his
people? This is what affects me most. The day will come, perhaps, when the people will know
how much I prize its welfare, how much this has always been my concern and my first need. What
sorrows would disappear at the slightest sign of its return!"]

[Footnote 2618: Moniteur, XIII. 33, 56 bis 85, 97 (sessions of July 3, 5, 6 and 9).]

[Footnote 2619: Moniteur, XIII. 26, 170, 273 (sessions of July 12, 17, 28).--Mortimer-Ternaux,
II. 122 (session of July 23): Addresses of the municipal council of Marseilles, of the federates,
of the Angers petitioners, of the Charente volunteers, etc. "A hereditary monarchy is opposed
to the Rights of Man. Pass the act of dethronement and France is saved... Be brave, let the
sword of the law fall on a perjured functionary and conspirator! Lafayette is the most contemptible,
the guiltiest,... the most infamous of the assassins of the people," etc.]

[Footnote 2620: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 126.--Bertrand de Molleville, III. 294.]

[Footnote 2621: Moniteur, XIII. 325 (session of Aug. 3).]

[Footnote 2622: Moniteur, XII. 738; XII. 340.]

[Footnote 2623: Moniteur, XIII. 170, 171, 187, 208, 335 (sessions of July 17, 18, and 23, and
Aug. 5).]

[Footnote 2624: Moniteur, XIII. 187 (session of July 18). "The galleries applaud. The Assembly
murmurs."--208 (July 21). "Murmuring, shouts, and cries of Down with the speaker! from the
galleries. The president calls the house to order five times, but always fruitlessly."--224
(July 23). "The galleries applaud; long continued murmurs are heard in the Assembly."]

[Footnote 2625: Buzot, "Mémoires" (Ed. Dauban, 83 and 84). "The majority of the French people
yearned for royalty and the constitution of 1790... It was at Paris particularly that this
desire governed the general plan, the discussion of it being the least feared in special conversations
and in private society. There were only a few noble-minded, superior men that were worthy of
being republicans... The rest desired the constitution of 1791, and spoke of the republicans
only as one speaks of very honest maniacs."]

[Footnote 2626: Duvergier, "Collection des lois et décrets," May 29, 1792; July 15, 16, and
18; July 6-20.]

[Footnote 2627: Moniteur, XIII. 25 (session of July 1). Petition of 150 active citizens of
the Bonne-Nouvelle section.]

[Footnote 2628: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 194. Buchez et Roux, XVI. 253. The decree of dismissal
was not passed until the 12th of August, but after the 31St of July the municipality demanded
it and during the following days several Jacobin grenadiers go to the National Assembly, trample
on their bearskin hats and put on the red cap of liberty.]

[Footnote 2629: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 192 (municipal action of Aug. 5).]

[Footnote 2630: Decree of July 2.]

[Footnote 2631: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 129.--Buchez et Roux, XV. 458. According to the report
of the Minister of War, read the 30th of July, at the evening session, 5,314 department federates
left Paris between July 14 and 30. Pétion wrote that the levy of federates then in Paris amounted
to 2,960, "of which 2,032 were getting ready to go to the camp at Soissons."--A comparison
of these figures leads to the approximate number that I have adopted]

[Footnote 2632: Buchez et Roux, XVI. 120, 133 (session of the Jacobins, Aug. 6). The federates
"resolved to watch the Château, each taking a place in the battalions respectively of the sections
in which they lodge, and many incorporated themselves with the battalions of the faubourg St
Antoine."]

[Footnote 2633: Mercure de France, April 14, 1793.--" The Revolution," I. p. 332.]

[Footnote 2634: Barbaroux, "Mémoires," 37-40.--Lauront-Lautard, "Marseilles depuis 1789 jusqu'à
1815," I. 134. "The mayor, Mourdeille," who had recruited them, "was perhaps very glad to get
rid of them."--On the composition of this group and on the previous rôle of Rebecqui, see chapter
VI.]

[Footnote 2635: Buchez et Roux, XVI. 197 and following pages.--Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 148 (the
grenadiers numbered only 166).--Moniteur, XIII. 310 (session of Aug. 1). Address of the grenadiers:
"They swore on their honor that they did not draw their swords until after being threatened
for a quarter of an hour, then insulted and humiliated, until forced to defend their lives
against a troop of brigands armed with pistols, and some of them with carbines."--" The reading
of this memorandum is often interrupted by hooting from the galleries, in spite of the president's
orders."--Hooting again, when they file out of the chamber.]

[Footnote 2636: The lack of men of action greatly embarrassed the Jacobin party. 326.) Letter
of M. de Montmorin, July 13, 1792. On the disposition of the people of Paris, wearied and worn
out "to excess." "They will take no side, either for or against the king... They no longer
stir for any purpose; riots are wholly factitious. This is so right that they are obliged to
bring men from the South to get them up. Nearly all of those who forced the gates of the Tuileries,
or rather, who got inside of them on the 20th of June, were outsiders or onlookers, got together
at the sight of such a lot of pikes and red caps, etc. The cowards ran at the slightest indication
of presenting arms, which was done by a portion of the national guard on the arrival of a deputation
from the National Assembly, their leaders being obliged to encourage them by telling them that
they were not to be fired at."]

[Footnote 2637: Buchez et Roux, XVI. 447. "Chronique des cinquante jours," by Roederer.]

[Footnote 2638: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 378.-127 Jacobins of Arras, led by Geoffroy and young
Robespierre, declare to the Directory that they mean to come to its meetings and follow its
deliberations. "It is time that the master should keep his eye on his agents." The Directory,
therefore, resigns (July 4, 1792).--Ibid., 462 (report of Leroux, municipal officer). The Paris
municipal council, on the night of August 9-10 deliberates under threats of death and the furious
shouts of the galleries.]

[Footnote 2639: Duvergier's "Collection of Laws and Decrees," July 4, 5-8, 11-12, 25-28.--Buchez
et Roux, XVI. 250. The section of the Theatre Français (of which Danton is president and Chaumette
and Momoro secretaries) thus interpret the declaration of the country being in danger. "After
a declaration of the country being in danger by the representatives of the people, it is natural
that the people itself should take back its sovereign supervision."]

[Footnote 2640: Schmidt, "Tableaux de la Révolution," I. 99-100. Report to Roland, Oct. 29, 1792.]

[Footnote 2641: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 199.--Buchez et Roux, XVI. 320.--Moniteur, XIII. 336
(session of Aug. 5). Speech by Collot d'Herbois.]

[Footnote 2642: Moniteur, XI. 20, session of Feb. 4. At this meeting Gorguereau, reporter of
the committee on legislation, had already stated that "The authors of these multiplied addresses
seem to command rather than demand... It is ever the same sections or the same individuals
who deceive you in bringing to you their own false testimony for that of the capital."--"Down
with the reporter! From the galleries."--Ibid., XIII. 93, session of July 11. M. Gastelier:
"Addresses in the name of the people are constantly read to you, which are not even the voice
of one section. We have seen the same individual coming three times a week to demand something
in the name of sovereignty." (Shouts of down! down! in the galleries.) Ibid., 208, session
of July 21. M. Dumolard: "You must distinguish between the people of Paris and these subaltern
intriguers... these habitual oracles of the cafés and public squares, whose equivocal existence
has for a long time occupied the attention and claimed the supervision of the police." (Down
with the speaker! murmurs and hooting in the galleries).-Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 398. Protests
of the arsenal section, read by Lavoisier (the chemist): "The caprice of a knot of citizens
(thus) becomes the desire of an immense population."]

[Footnote 2643: Buchez et Roux, XVI. 251.--Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 239 and 243. The central bureau
is first opened in "the building of the Saint-Esprit, in the second story, near the passage
communicating with the common dwelling." Afterwards the commissioners of the section occupy
another room in the Hôtel-de-ville, nearly joining the throne-room, where the municipal council
is holding its sessions. During the night of August 9-10 both councils sit four hours simultaneously
within a few steps of each other.]

[Footnote 2644: Robespierre, "Seventh letter to his constituents," says: "The sections... have
been busy for more than a fortnight getting ready for the last Revolution."]

[Footnote 2645: Robespierre, "Seventh letter to his constituents"--Malouet, II. 233, 234.--Roederer,
"Chronique des cinquante jours."]

[Footnote 2646: Moniteur, XIII. 318, 319. The petition is drawn up apparently by people who
are beside themselves. "If we did not rely on you, I would not answer for the excesses to which
our despair would carry us! We would bring on ourselves all the horrors of civil war, provided
we could, on dying, drag along with us some of our cowardly assassins!"----The representatives,
it must be noted, talk in the same vein. La Source exclaims: "The members here, like yourselves,
call for vengeance!"--Thuriot: "The crime is atrocious!"]

[Footnote 2647: Taine is describing a basic trait of human nature, something we see again and
again whether our ancestors attacked small, harmless neighboring nations, witches, renegades,
Jews, or religious people of another faith.(SR).]

[Footnote 2648: Buchez et Roux, XIX 93, session of Sept. 23, 1792. 301.--Hua, 148.--Weber,
II. 208.--Madame Campan, "Mémoires," II. 188. Already, at the end of 1791, the king was told
that he was liable to be poisoned by the pastry-cook of the palace, a Jacobin. For three or
four months the bread and pastry he ate were secretly purchased in other places. On the 14th
of July, 1792, his attendants, on account of the threats against his life, put a breastplate
on him under his coat.]

[Footnote 2650: member of the 1789 Constituent Assembly. (SR).]

[Footnote 2651: Moniteur, VIII. 271, 278. A deputy, excusing his assailants, pretends that
d'Ésprémesnil urged the people to enter the Tuileries garden. It is scarcely necessary to state
that during the Constituent Assembly d'Espréménil was one of the most conspicuous members of
the extreme "Right."--Duc de Gaëte, "Mémoires," I. 18.]

[Footnote 2652: Lafayette, "Mémoires," I. 465.]

[Footnote 2653: Moniteur, XIII. 327,--Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 176.]

[Footnote 2654: Moniteur, XIII. 340.--The style of these petitions is highly instructive. We
see in them the state of mind and degree of education of the petitioners: sometimes a half-educated
writer attempting to reason in the vein of the Contrat Social; sometimes, a schoolboy spouting
the tirades of Raynal; and sometimes, the corner letter-writer putting together the expressions
forming his stock in trade.]

[Footnote 2655: Carra, "Précis historique sur l'origine et les véritables auteurs de l'insurrection
du 10 Août."--Barbaroux, "Mémoires, 49. The executive directory, appointed by the central committee
of the confederates, held its first meeting in a wine-shop, the Soleil d'or, on the square
of the Bastille; the second at the Cadran bleu, on the boulevard; the third in Antoine's room,
who then lodged in the same house with Robespierre. Camille Desmoulins was present at this
latter meeting. Santerre, Westermann, Fournier the American, and Lazowski were the principal
members of this Directory. Another insurrectionary plan was drawn up on the 30th of July in
a wine-shop at Charenton by Barbaroux, Rebecqui, Pierre Bayle, Heron, and Fournier the American.--Cf.
J. Claretie, "Camille Desmoulins," p. 192. Desmoulins wrote, a little before the 10th of August:
"If the National Assembly thinks that it cannot save the country, let it declare then, that,
according to the Constitution, and like the Romans, it hands this over to each citizen. Let
the tocsin be rung forthwith, the whole nation assembled, and every man, as at Rome, be invested
with the power of putting to death all well-known conspirators!"]

[Footnote 2656: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 182. Decision of the Quinze-Vingt Section, Aug. 4.--Buchez
et Roux, XVI. 402-410. History of Quinze-Vingt Section.]

[Footnote 2657: Moniteur. XIII. 367, session of Aug. 8.--Ibid., 369 and following pages. Session
of Aug. 9. Letters and speeches of maltreated deputies.]

[Footnote 2658: Moniteur, 371. Speech of M. Girardin: "I am convinced that most of those who
insulted me were foreigners."--Ibid., 370. Letter of M. Frouvières: "Many of the citizens,
coming out of their shops, exclaimed: How can they insult the deputies in this way? Run away!
run off!"--M. Jolivet, that evening attending a meeting of the Jacobin Club, states "that the
Jacobin tribunes were far from sharing in this frenzy." He heard "one individual in these tribunes
exclaim, on the proposal to put the dwellings of the deputies on the list, that it was outrageous."--Countless
other details show the small number and character of the factions.--Ibid., 374. Speech of Aubert-Dubacet:
"I saw men dressed in the coats of the national guard, with countenances betraying everything
that is most vile in wickedness." There are "a great many evil-disposed persons among the federates."]

[Footnote 2659: Moniteur, XIII. 170 (letter of M. de Joly, Minister of Justice).--Ibid., 371,
declaration of M. Jolivet.--Buchez et Roux, XVI. 370 (session of the Jacobin Club, Aug. 8,
at evening). Speech by Goupilleau.]

[Footnote 2660: One may imagine with what satisfaction Lenin, must have read this description
agreeing: "Yes, open voting by a named and identified count, that is how a leader best can
control any assembly." (SR).]

[Footnote 2661: Moniteur, XIII. 370.--Cf. Ibid., the letter of M. Chapron.--Ibid., 372. Speech
by M. A. Vaublanc.--Moore, "Journal during a Residence in France," I. 25 (Aug. 10). The impudence
of the people in the galleries was intolerable. There was "a loud and universal peal of laughter
from all the galleries" on the reading of a letter, in which a deputy wrote that he was threatened
with decapitation.--" Fifty members were shouting at the same time; the most boisterous night
I ever was witness to in the House of Commons was calmness itself alongside of this."]

[Footnote 2662: Moniteur, Ibid., p. 371.--Lafayette, I. 467. "On the 9th of August, as can
be seen in the unmutilated editions of the Logographe, the Assembly, almost to a man, arose
and declared that it was not free." Ibid., 478. "On the 9th of August the Assembly had passed
a decree declaring that it was not free. This decree was torn up on the 10th. But it is no
that it was passed."]

[Footnote 2663: Moniteur, XIII. 370, 374, 375. Speech by Roederer, letter of M. de Joly, and
speech by Pétion.]

[Footnote 2664: Mathieu Dumas, "Mémoires," II. 461.]

[Footnote 2665: "Chronique des cinquante jours," by Roederer.--Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 260.--Buchez
et Roux, XVI. 458.--Towards half-past seven in the morning there were only from sixty to eighty
members present. (Testimony of two of the Ministers who leave the Assembly.)]

[Footnote 2666: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 205. At the ballot of July 12, not counting members on
leave of absence or delegated elsewhere, and the dead not replaced, there were already twenty-seven
not answering the call, while after that date three others resigned.--Buchez et Roux, XVII.
340 (session of Sept. 2, 1792). Hérault de Séchelles is elected president by 248 out of 257
voters.--Hua, 164 (after Aug. 10). "We attended the meetings of the House simply to show that
we had not given them up. We took no part in the discussions, and on the vote being taken,
standing or sitting, we remained in our seats. This was the only protest we could make."]

[Footnote 2667: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 229, 233, 417 and following pages. M. Mortimer-Ternaux
is the first to expose, with documents to support him and critical discussion, the formation
of the revolutionary commune.--The six sections referred to are the Lombards, Gravilliers,
Mauconseil, Gobelins, Théatre-Français, and Faubourg Poissonnière.]

[Footnote 2668: For instance, the Enfants Rouges, Louvre, Observatoire, Fontaine-Grenelle,
Faubourg Saint-Denis, and Thermes de Julien..]

[Footnote 2669: For example, at the sections of Montreuil, Popincourt, and Roi de Sicile..]

[Footnote 2670: For example, Ponceau, Invalides, Sainte-Geneviève.]

[Footnote 2671: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 240.]

[Footnote 2672: Mortimer-Ternaux, 446 (list of the commissioners who took their seats before
9 o'clock in the morning). "Le Tableau général des Commisaires des 48 sections qui ont composé
le conseil général de la Commune de Paris, le 10 Août, 1792," it must be noted, was not published
until three or four months later, with all the essential falsifications. It may be found in
Buchez et Roux, XVI. 450.--"Relation de l'abbé Sicard." "At that time a lot of scoundrels,
after the general meeting of the sections was over, passed acts in the name of the whole assemblage
and had them executed, utterly unknown to those who had done this, or by those who were the
unfortunate victims of these proceedings." (supported by documents).]

[Footnote 2673: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 270, 273. (The official report of Mandat's examination
contains five false statements, either through omission or substitution.)]

[Footnote 2674: Claretie, "Camille Desmoulins," p.467 (notes of Topino-Lebrun on Danton's trial).
Danton, in the pleadings, says: "I left at 1 o'clock in the morning. I was at the revolutionary
commune and pronounced sentence of death on Mandet, who had orders to fire op the people."
Danton in the same place says: "I had planned the 10th of August." It is very certain that
from 1 to 7 o'clock in the morning (when Mandat was killed) he was the principal leader of
the insurrectional commune. Nobody was so potent, so overbearing, so well endowed physically
for the control of such a conventicle as Danton. Besides, among the new-comers he was the best
known and with the most influence through his position as deputy of the syndic-attorney. Hence
his prestige after the victory and appointment as Minister of Justice. His hierarchical superior,
the syndic-attorney Manuel, who was there also and signed his name, showed himself undoubtedly
the pitiful fellow he was, an affected, crazy, ridiculous loud-talker. For this reason he was
allowed to remain syndic-attorney as a tool and servant.--Beaulieu, "Essais sur la Révolution
Française," III. 454. "Rossignal boasted of having committed this assassination himself."]

[Footnote 2675: "Pièces intéressantes pour l'histoire," by Pétion, 1793. "I desired the insurrection,
but I trembled for fear that it might not succeed. My position was a critical one. I had to
do my duty as a citizen without sacrificing that of a magistrate; externals had to be preserved
without derogating from forms. The plan was to confine me in my own house; but they forgot
or delayed to carry this out. Who do you think repeatedly sent to urge the execution of this
measure? Myself; yes, myself!"]

[Footnote 2676: In "Histoire de la Révolution Française" by Ferrand & Lamarque, Cavaillés,
Paris 1851, vol. II. Page 225 we may read the following footnote: "This very evening, a young
artillery lieutenant observed, from a window of a house in the rue de l'Echelle, the preparations
which were being undertaken in the château des Tuileries: that was Napoleon Bonaparte.--Well,
right, asked the deputy Pozze di Borgo, his compatriot, what do you think of what is going
on? This evening they will attack the château. Do you think the people will succeed?--I don't
know, answered the future emperor, but what I can assure you is that if they gave me the command
of two Swiss battalions and one hundred good horsemen, I should repel the insurgents in a manner
which would for ever rid them of any desire to return." (SR)]

[Footnote 2677: Napoleon, at this moment, was at the Carrousel, in the house of Bourrienne's
brother. "I could see conveniently," he says, "all that took place during the day... The king
had at least as many troops in his defense as the Convention since had on the 13th Vendémaire,
while the enemies of the latter were much more formidable and better disciplined. The greater
part of the national guard showed that they favored the king; this justice must be done to
it." (It might be helpful to some readers to know that when Napoleon refers to the 13th Vendémaire,
(5th Oct. 1795) that was when he, as a young officer was given the task to defend the Convention
against a royalist uprising. He was quick-witted and got hold of some guns in time, loaded
them with grape-shot, placed them in front of the Parisian church of Saint-Roch and completely
eliminated the superior royalist force. SR.)]

[Footnote 2678: Official report of Leroux. On the side of the garden, along the terrace by
the river, and then on the return were "a few shouts of Vive le roi! many for Vive la nation!
Vivent les sans-culottes! Down with the king! Down with the veto! Down with the old porker!
etc.--But I can certify that these insults were all uttered between the Pont-Turnant and the
parterre, and by about a dozen men, among which were five or six gunners following the king,
the same as flies follow an animal they are bent on tormenting."]

[Footnote 2679: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 223, 273--Letter of Bonnaud, chief of the Sainte-Marguerite
battalion: "I cannot avoid marching at their head under any pretext... Never will I violate
the Constitution unless I am forced to."--The Gravilliers section and that of the Faubourg
Poissonnière cashiered their officers and elected others.]

[Footnote 2680: Mortimer-Ternaux, IV. 342. Speech of Fabre d'Eglantine at the Jacobin Club,
Nov. 5, 1792. "Let it be loudly proclaimed that these are the same men who captured the Tuileries,
broke into the prisons of the Abbaye, of Orleans and of Versailles."]

[Footnote 2681: In this respect the riot of the Champ-de-Mars (July 17, 1791), the only one
that was suppressed, is very instructive: "As the militia would not as usual ground their arms
on receiving the word of command from the mob, this last began, according to custom, to pelt
them with stones. To be deprived of their Sunday recreational activities, to be marching through
the streets under a scorching sun, and then be remain standing like fools on a public holiday,
to be knocked out with bricks, was a little more than they had patience to bear so that, without
waiting for an order, they fired and killed a dozen or two of the raggamuffins. The rest of
the brave chaps bolted. If the militia had waited for orders they might, I fancy, have been
all knocked down before they received any... Lafayette was very near being killed in the morning;
but the pistol failed to go off at his breast. The assassin was immediately secured, but he
arranged to be let free" (Gouverneur Morris, letter of July 20, 1791). Likewise, on the 29th
of August, 1792, at Rouen, the national guard, defending the Hôtel-de-ville, is pelted with
stones more than an hour while many are wounded. The magistrates make every concession and
try every expedient, the mayor reading the riot act five or six times. Finally the national
guard, forced into it, exclaim: "If you do not allow us to repel force with force we shall
leave." They fire and four persons are killed and two wounded, and the crowd breaks up. ("Archives
Nationales," F7, 2265, official report of the Rouen municipality, Aug. 29; addresses of the
municipality, Aug. 28; letter of the lieutenant-colonel of the gendarmerie, Aug. 30, etc.).]

[Footnote 2682: Official report of Leroux.--"Chronique des cinquante jours," by Roederer.--"Détails
particuliers sur la journée du 10 Aout," by a bourgeois of Paris, an eye-witness (1822).]

[Footnote 2683: Barbaroux, "Mémoires," 69. "Everything betokened victory for the court if the
king had never left his post... If he had shown himself, if he had mounted on horseback the
battalions of Paris would have declared for him."]

[Footnote 2684: "Révolution de Paris," number for Aug. 11, 1792. "The 10th of August, 1792,
is still more horrible than the 24th of August, 1572, and Louis XVI. a greater monster than
Charles IX. "--"Thousands of torches were found in cellars, apparently placed there to burn
down Paris at a signal from this modern Nero." In the number for Aug.18: "The place for Louis
Nero and for Medicis Antoinette is not in the towers of the Temple; their heads should have
fallen from the guillotine on the night of the 10th of August." (Special details of a plan
of the king to massacre all patriot deputies, and intimidate Paris with a grand pillaging and
by keeping the guillotine constantly at work.) "That crowned ogre and his Austrian panther."]

[Footnote 2685: Narrative of the Minister Joly (written four days after the event). The king
departs about half-past eight.--Cf. Madame Campan, "Mémoires," and Moniteur, XIII. 378.]

[Footnote 2686: "Révolution de Paris," number for Aug. 18. On his way a sans-culotte steps
out in front of the rows and tries to prevent the king from proceeding. The officer of the
guard argues with him, upon which he extends his hand to the king, exclaiming: "Touch that
hand, bastard, and you have shaken the hand of an honest man! But I have no intention that
your bitch of a wife goes with you to the Assembly; we don't want that whore."--"Louis XVI,"
says Prudhomme, "kept on his way without being upset by the with this noble impulse."--I regard
this as a masterpiece of Jacobin interpretation.]

[Footnote 2687: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 311, 325. The king, at the foot of the staircase, had
asked Roederer: "what will become of the persons remaining above?" "Sire," he replies, "they
seem to be in plain dress. Those who have swords have merely to take them off, follow you and
leave by the garden." A certain number of gentlemen, indeed, do so, and thus depart while others
escape by the opposite side through the gallery of the Louvre.]

[Footnote 2688: Mathon de la Varenne, "Histoire particulière," etc., 108. (Testimony of the
valet-de-chambre Lorimier de Chamilly, with whom Mathon was imprisoned in the prison of La Force.]

[Footnote 2689: De Lavalette, "Mémoires," I. 81. "We there found the grand staircase barred
by a sort of beam placed across it, and defended by several Swiss officers, who were civilly
disputing its passage with about fifty mad fellows, whose odd dress very much resembled that
of the brigands in our melodramas. They were intoxicated, while their coarse language and queer
imprecations indicated the town of Marseilles, which had belched them forth."]

[Footnote 2690: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 314, 317 (questioning of M. de Diesbach). "Their orders
were not to fire until the word was given, and not before the national guard had set the example."]

[Footnote 2691: Buchez et Roux, XVI, 443. Narration by Pétion.--Peltier, "Histoire du 10 août."]

[Footnote 2692: M. de Nicolay wrote the following day, the 11th of August: "The federates fired
first, which was followed by a sharp volley from the château windows." II. 347.)]

[Footnote 2693: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 491. The abandonment of the Tuileries is proved by the
small loss of the assailants. (List of the wounded belonging to the Marseilles corps and of
the killed and wounded of the Brest corps, drawn up Oct. 16, 1792.--Statement of the aid granted
to wounded Parisians, to widows, to orphans, and to the aged, October, 1792, and then 1794.)--The
total amounts to 74 dead and 54 severely wounded The two corps in the hottest of the fight
were the Marseilles band, which lost 22 dead and 14 wounded, and the Bretons, who lost 2 dead
and 5 wounded. The sections that suffered the most were the Quinze-Vingts (4 dead and 4 wounded),
the Faubourg-Montmartre (3 dead), the Lombards (4 wounded), and the Gravilliers (3 wounded).--Out
of twenty-one sections reported, seven declare that they did not lose a man.--The Swiss regiment,
on the contrary, lost 760 men and 26 officers.]

[Footnote 2694: Napoleon's narrative.]

[Footnote 2695: Pétion's account.]

[Footnote 2696: Prudhomme's "Révolution de Paris," XIII. 236 and 237.--Barbaroux, 73.--Madame
Campan, II. 250.]

[Footnote 2697: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 258.--Moore, I. 59. Some of the robbers are killed. Moore
saw one of them thrown down the grand staircase.]

[Footnote 2698: Michelet, III. 289.]

[Footnote 2699: Mercier, "Le Nouveau Paris," II. 108.--"The Comte de Fersen et la Cour de France,"
II. 348. (Letter of Sainte-Foix, Aug. 11). "The cellars were broken open and more than 10,000
bottles of wine of which I saw the fragments in the court, so intoxicated the people that I
made haste to put an end to an investigation imprudently begun amidst 2,000 sots with naked
swords, handled by them very carelessly."]

[Footnote 26100: Napoleon's narrative.--Memoirs of Barbaroux.]

[Footnote 26101: Moniteur, XIII. 387.--Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 340.]

[Footnote 26102: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 303. Words of the president Vergniaud on receiving Louis
XVI.--Ibid. 340, 342, 350.]

[Footnote 26103: Mortimer-Ternaux, 356, 357.]

[Footnote 26104: Mortimer-Ternaux, 337. Speech of Huguenin, president of the Commune, at the
bar of the National Assembly: "The people by whom we are sent to you have instructed us to
declare to you that they invest you anew with its confidence; but they at the same time instruct
us to declare to you that, as judge of the extraordinary measures to which they have been driven
by necessity and resistance to oppression, they k now no other authority than the French people,
your sovereign and ours, assembled in its primary meetings."]

[Footnote 26105: Duvergier, "Collection des lois et décrets," (between Aug. 10 and Sept. 20).]

[Footnote 26106: Duvergier, "Collection des lois et décrets," Aug. 11-12. "The National Assembly
considering that it has not the right to subject sovereignty in the formation of a national
Convention to imperative regulations,... invites citizens to conform to the following rules."]

[Footnote 26107: August 11 (article 8)]

[Footnote 26108: Aug. 10-12 and Aug. 28.]

[Footnote 26109: Ibid., Aug. 10, Aug. 13.--Cf. Moniteur, XIII. 399 (session of Aug. 12).]

[Footnote 26110: Ibid., Aug. 18.]

[Footnote 26111: Aug. 23 and Sep. 3. After the 11th of August the Assembly passes a decree
releasing Saint-Huruge and annulling the warrant against Antoine.]

[Footnote 26112: Ibid., Aug. 14.]

[Footnote 26113: Ibid., Aug. 14. Decree for dividing the property of the émigrés into lots
of from two to four arpents, in order to "multiply small proprietors."--Ibid., Sept. 2. Other
decrees against the émigrés and their relations, Aug. 14, 23, 30, and Sept. 5 and 9.]

[Footnote 26114: Ibid., Aug. 26. Other decrees against the ecclesiastics or the property of
the church, Aug. 17, 18, 19, and Sept. 9 and 19.]

[Footnote 26115: Ibid., Sept. 20.]

[Footnote 26116: Imagine the impression these last lines may have upon any ardent, ambitious
and arrogant young man who, like Lenin in 1907, would have read this between 1893 and 1962,
date of the last English reprinting of Taine's once widely know work. They summed up both what
had to be done and who would be the primary beneficiaries of the revolution. Lenin, Hitler,
Mussolini and countless other young hopeful political men. Read it once more and ask yourself
if much of this program has not been more or less surreptitiously carried out in most western
countries after the second world war? (SR).]

[Footnote 26117: Malouet, II. 241.]

[Footnote 26118: Mercure de France, July 21, 1792.]

[Footnote 26119: "Révolutions de Paris," XIII. 137.]

[Footnote 26120: Mallet du Pan. "Mémoires," I. 322. Letters to Mallet du Pan. Aug. 4 and following
days.]

[Footnote 26121: Buchez et Roux, XVI. 446. Pétion's narrative.--Arnault, "Souvenirs d'un sexagénaire,"
I. 342. (An eye-witness on the 10th of August.) "The massacre extended but little beyond the
Carrousel, and did not cross the Seine. Everywhere else I found a population as quiet as if
nothing had happened. Inside the city the people scarcely manifested any surprise; dancing
went on in the public gardens. In the Marais, where I lived then, there was only a suspicion
of the occurrence, the same as at Saint-Germain; it was said that something was going on in
Paris, and the evening newspaper was impatiently looked for to know what it was."]

[Footnote 26122: Moore, I. 122.--The same thing is observable at other crises in the Revolution.
On the 6th of October, 1789 (Sainte-Beuve, "Causeries du Lundi," XII. 461), Sénac de Meilhan
at an evening reception hears the following conversations: "'Did you see the king pass?' asks
one. 'No, I was at the theater.' 'Did Molé play?'--'As for myself; I was obliged to stay in
the Tuileries; there was no way of getting out before 9 o'clock.' 'You saw the king pass then?'
'I could not see very well; it was dark.'--Another says: 'It must have taken six hours for
him to come from Versailles.'--Others coolly add a few details.--To continue: 'Will you take
a hand at whist?' 'I will play after supper, which is just ready.' Cannon are heard, and then
a few whisperings, and a transient moment of depression,. 'The king is leaving the Hôtel-de-ville.
They must be very tired.' Supper is taken and there are snatches of conversation. They play
trente et quarante and while walking about watching the game and their cards they do some talking:
'What a horrid affair!' while some speak together briefly and in a low tone of voice. The clock
strikes two and they all leave or go to bed.--These people seem to you insensible. Very well;
there is not one of them who would not accept death at the king's feet."--On the 23d of June,
1791, at the news of the king's arrest at Varennes, "the Bois de Boulogne and the Champs Elysées
were filled with people talking in a frivolous way about the most serious matters, while young
men are seen, pronouncing sentences of death in their frolics with courtesans." (Mercure de
France, July 9, 1791. It begins with a little piece entitled Dépit d'un Amant.)--See ch. XI.
for the sentiment of the population in May and June, 1793.]

[Footnote 26123: Moniteur, XIII. 290 (July 29) and 278 (July 30).]

[Footnote 26124: "Archives Nationales," F7, 145. Letter of Santerre to the Minister of the
Interior, Sept. 16, 1792, with the daily list of all the men that have left Paris between the3rd
and 15th of September, the total amounting to 18,635, of which 15,504 are volunteers. Other
letters from the same, indicating subsequent departures: Sept. 17, 1,071 men; none the following
days until Sept. 21, 243; 22nd 150; up to the 26th, 813; on Oct. 1st, 113; 2nd and 3rd, 1,088;
4th, 1620; 16th, 196, etc.--I believe that amongst those who leave, some are passing through
Paris coming from the provinces; this prevents an exact calculation of the number of Parisian
volunteers. M. de Lavalette, himself a volunteer, says 60,000; but he furnishes not proofs
of this.]

[Footnote 26125: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 362.]

[Footnote 26126: Soulavie, "Vie privée du Maréchal duc de Richelieu," IX. 384.----"One can
scarcely comprehend," says Lafayette, ("Mémoires," I. 454), "how the Jacobin minority and a
gang of pretended Marseilles men could render themselves masters of Paris, while almost the
whole of the 40,000 citizens forming the national guard desired the Constitution."]

[Footnote 26127: Hua, 169.]

[Footnote 26128: Moniteur, XIII. 437. (session of Aug. 16, the applause reiterated and the
speech ordered to be printed).]

[Footnote 26129: These words should cause society to change resulting in a leveling of incomes
through proportional taxation and aids of all kinds throughout the industrialized world. Nobody
could ever imagine the immense wealth which was to be produced by the efficient industry of
the 20th century. (SR).]

[Footnote 26130: Roederer, "oeuvres Complètes." VIII 477. "The club orators displayed France
to the proletariat as a sure prey if they would seize hold of it."]

[Footnote 26131: This manifesto, was drafted for the Duke of Brunswick-Lunebourg, the general
commanding the combined Prussian and Austrian forces, by the French émigré Marquis de Limon.
It threatened the French and especially the Paris population with unspecified "rigors of war"
should it have the temerity to resist or to harm the King and his family. It was signed in
Koblenz, Germany on 25 August 1792 and published in royalist newspapers 3 days later in Paris.(SR).]

[Footnote 26132: "Moore's Journal," I. 303-309.]

[Footnote 26133: "Archives Nationales," 474, 426. Section of Gravilliers, letter of Charles
Chemin, commissary, to Santerre, and deposition of Ilingray, cavalryman of the national gendarmerie,
Aug. 11.]

[Footnote 26134: Beaumarchais, "oeuvres complètes," letter of Aug. 12, 1792.--This very interesting
letter shows how mobs are composed at this epoch. A small gang of regular brigands and thieves
plot together some enterprise, to which is added a frightened, infatuated crowd, which may
become ferocious, but which remains honest.]

[Footnote 26135: The words of Hobbes applied by Roederer to the democracy of 1792: "In democratia
tot possent esse Nerones quot sunt oratores qui populo adulantur; simul et plures sunt in democratia,
et quotidie novi suboriuntur."]

[Footnote 26136: Lucas de Montigny, "Mémoires de Mirabeau," II. 231 and following pages.--The
preface affixed by Manuel to his edition (of Mirabeau's letters) is a masterpiece of nonsense
and impertinence.--Peltier, "Histoire du 10 Aout," II. 205.--Manuel "came out of a little shop
at Montargis and hawked about obscene tracts in the upper stories of Paris. He got hold of
Mirabeau's letters in the drawers of the public department and sold them for 2,000 crowns."
(testimony of Boquillon, juge-de la paix).]

[Footnote 26137: Lafayette, "Mémoires," I. 467, 471. "The queen had 50,000 crowns put into
Danton's hands a short time before these terrible days."--" The court had Danton under pay
for two years, employing him as a spy on the Jacobins."--" 82. Letter from Mirabeau, March
10, 1791: "Danton received yesterday 30,000 livres".--Other testimony, Bertrand de Molleville,
I. 354, II. 288.--Brissot, IV. 193--. Miot de Melito, "Mémoires," I. 40, 42. Miot was present
at the conversations which took place between Danton, Legendre, etc., at the table of Desforges,
Minister of Foreign Affairs. "Danton made no concealment of his love of pleasure and money,
and laughed at all conscientious and delicate scruples."--" Legendre could not say enough in
praise of Danton in speaking of his talents as a public man; but he loudly censured his habits
and cxpensive tastes, and never joined him in any of his odious speculations."--The opposite
thesis has been maintained by Robinet and Bougeart in their articles on Danton. The discussion
would require too much space. The important points are as follows: Danton, a barrister in the
royal council in March, 1787, loses about 10,000 francs on the refund of his charge. In his
marriage-contract dated June, 1787, he admits 12,000 francs patrimony in lands and houses,
while his wife brings him only 20,000 francs dowry. From 1787 to 1791 he could not earn much,
being in constant attendance at the Cordeliers club and devoted to politics; Lacretelle saw
him in the riots of 1788. He left at his death about 85,000 francs in national property bought
in 1791. Besides, he probably held property and valuables under third parties, who kept them
after his death. (De Martel, "Types Révolutionnaires," 2d part, p.139. Investigations of Blache
at Choisy-sur-Seine, where a certain Fauvel seems to have been Danton's assumed name.)--See
on this question, "Avocats aux conseils du Roi," by Emil Bos, pp.513-520. According to accounts
proved by M. Bos, it follows that Danton, at the end of 1791, was in debt to the amount of
53,000 francs; this is the hole stopped by the court. On the other side, Danton before the
Revolution signs himself Danton even in authentic writing, which is an usurpation of nobility
and at that time subject to the penalty of the galleys.--The double-faced infidelity in question
must have been frequent, for their leaders were anything else but sensitive. On the 7th of
August Madame Elizabeth tells M. de Montmorin that the insurrection would not take place; that
Pétion and Santerre were concerned in it, and that they had received 750,000 francs to prevent
it and bring over the Marseilles troop to the king's side (Malouet, II. 223).--There is no
doubt that Santerre, in using the king's money against the king, thought he was acting patriotically.
Money is at the bottom of every riot, to pay for drink and to stimulate subordinate agents.]

[Footnote 26138: Buchez et Roux, XXVIII. 92. Letter of Gadolle to Roland, October, 1792, according
to a narrative by one of the teachers in the college d'Harcourt, in which Varlet was placed.]

[Footnote 26139: Buchez et Roux, XIII. 254.]

[Footnote 26140: "C. Desmoulins," by Claretie, 238 (in 1786 and in 1775). "The inquest still
exists, unfortunately it is convincing."--Westermann was accused of these acts in December,
1792, by the section of the Lombards, "proofs in hand."--Gouverneur Morris, so well informed,
writes to Washington, Jan. 10, 1793: The retreat of the King of Prussia "was worth to Westermann
about 10,000 pounds... The council ... exerted against him a prosecution for old affairs of
no higher rank than petty larceny."]

[Footnote 26141: "Archives Nationales," F7, 4434 (papers of the committee of general safety).
Note on Panis, with full details and references to the occurrence.]

[Footnote 26142: "Révolutions de Paris," No.177 (session of the council-general at the Hotel-de-ville,
Nov. 8, 1792, report of the committee of surveillance). "Sergent admits, except as to one of
the watches, that he intended to pay for the said object the price they would have brought.
It was noticed, as he said this, that he had on his finger the agate ring that was claimed."]

[Footnote 26143: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 638; III. 500 and following pages; IV. 132.--Cf. II. 451.]

[Footnote 26144: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 456.]

[Footnote 26145: Buchez et Roux, XVI. 138, 140 (testimony of Mathon de la Varenne, who was
engaged in the case).]

[Footnote 26146: "Dictionnaire biographique," by Eymery (Leipsic, 1807), article HÉBERT.]

[Footnote 26147: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 484, 601. Cf. letter of the representative Cavaignac,
Ibid., 399.]

[Footnote 26148: "Dictionnaire biographique," article HENRIOT.-The lives of many of these subordinate
leaders are well done. Cf. "Stanislas Maillard," by AL Sorel; "Le Patriote Palloy," by V Fournel.]

[Footnote 26149: Granier de Cassagnac, "Histoire des Girondins," 409.--"Archives Nationales,"
F7 3196. Letters of de Sades on the sacking of his house near Apt, with supporting document
and proofs of his civism; among others a petition drawn up by him in the name of the Pique
section and read at the Convention year II. brumaire 25. "Legislators, the reign of philosophy
has at last annihilated that of imposture... The worship of a Jewish slave of the Romans is
not adapted to the descendants of Scoevola. The general prosperity which is certain to proceed
from individual happiness will spread to the farthest regions of the universe and everywhere
the dreaded hydra of ultramontane superstition, chased by the combined lights of reason and
virtue, no longer finding a refuge in the hateful haunts of a dying aristocracy, will perish
at her side in despair at finally beholding on this earth the triumph of philosophy!"]

[Footnote 26150: Barbaroux, "Mémoires," 57, 59. The latter months of the legislative assembly.]

BOOK THIRD. THE SECOND STAGE OF THE CONQUEST.

CHAPTER I.

I.--Government by gangs in times of anarchy.

     Case where anarchy is recent and suddenly brought on.--The
     band that succeeds the fallen government and its
     administrative tools.

The worst feature of anarchy is not so much the absence of the overthrown government as the
rise of new governments of an inferior grade. In every state which breaks up, new groups will
form to conquer and become sovereign: it was so in Gaul on the fall of the Roman empire, also
under the latest of Charlemagne's successors; the same state of things exists now (1875) in
Rumania and in Mexico. Adventurers, gangsters, corrupted or downgraded men, social outcasts,
men overwhelmed with debts and lost to honor, vagabonds, deserters, dissolute troopers, born
enemies of work, of subordination, and of the law, unite to break the worm-eaten barriers which
still surround the sheep-like masses; and as they are unscrupulous, they slaughter on all occasions.
On this foundation their authority rests; each in turn reigns in its own area, and their government,
in keeping with its brutal masters, consists in robbery and murder; nothing else can be looked
for from barbarians and brigands.

But never are they so dangerous as when, in a great State recently fallen, a sudden revolution
places the central power in their hands; for they then regard themselves as the legitimate
inheritors of the shattered government, and, under this title, they undertake to manage the
commonwealth. Now in times of anarchy the ruling power does not proceed from above, but from
below; and the chiefs, therefore, who would remain such, are obliged to follow the blind impulsion
of their flock.[3101] Hence the important and dominant personage, the one whose ideas prevail,
the veritable successor of Richelieu and of Louis XIV. is here the subordinate Jacobin, the
pillar of the club, the maker of motions, the street rioter, Panis Sergent, Hébert, Varlet,
Henriot, Maillard, Fournier, Lazowski, or, still lower in the scale, the Marseilles "rough,"
the Faubourg gunner, the drinking market-porter who elaborates his political conceptions in
the interval between his hiccups.[3102]--For information he has the rumors circulating in the
streets which tell of a traitor to each house, and for confirmed knowledge the club slogans
inciting him to rule over the vast machine. A machinery so vast and complicated, a whole assembly
of entangled services ramifying in innumerable offices, with so much apparatus of special import,
so delicate as to require constant adaptation to changing circumstances, diplomacy, finances,
justice, army administration--all this surpasses his limited comprehension; a bottle cannot
be made to contain the bulk of a hogshead.[3103] In his narrow brain, perverted and turned
topsy-turvy by the disproportionate notions put into it, only one idea suited to his gross
instincts and aptitudes finds a place there, and that is the desire to kill his enemies; and
these are also the State's enemies, however open or concealed, present or future, probable
or even possible. He carries this savagery and bewilderment into politics, and hence the evil
arising from his government. Simply a brigand, he would have murdered only to rob, and his
murders would have been restricted. As representing the State, he undertakes wholesale massacres,
of which he has the means ready at hand.--For he has not yet had time enough to take apart
the old administrative implements; at all events the minor wheels, gendarmes, jailers, employees,
book-keepers, and accountants, are always in their places and under control. There can be no
resistance on the part of those arrested; accustomed to the protection of the laws and to peaceable
ways and times, they have never relied on defending themselves nor ever could imagine that
any one could be so summarily slain. As to the mass, rendered incapable of any effort of its
own by ancient centralization, it remains inert and passive and lets things go their own way.--Hence,
during many long, successive days, without being hurried or impeded, with official papers quite
correct and accounts in perfect order, a massacre can be carried out with the same impunity
and as methodically as cleaning the streets or clubbing stray dogs.[3104]

II.--The development of the ideas of killings in the mass of the party.

     The morning after August 10.--The tribunal of August 17.
     --The funereal fête of August 27.--The prison plot.

Let us trace the progress of the homicidal idea in the mass of the party. It lies at the very
bottom of the revolutionary creed. Collot d'Herbois, two months after this, aptly says in the
Jacobin tribune: "The second of September is the great article in the credo of our freedom."[3105]
It is peculiar to the Jacobin to consider himself as a legitimate sovereign, and to treat his
adversaries not as belligerents, but as criminals. They are guilty of lèse-nation; they are
outlaws, fit to be killed at all times and places, and deserve extinction, even when no longer
able or in a condition do any harm.--Consequently, on the 10th of August the Swiss Guards,
who do not fire a gun and who surrender, the wounded lying on the ground, their surgeons, the
palace domestics, are killed; and worse still, persons like M. de Clermont-Tonnerre who pass
quietly along the street. All this is now called in official phraseology the justice of the
people.--On the 11th the Swiss Guards, collected in the Feuillants building, come near being
massacred; the mob on the outside of it demand their heads;[3106] "it conceives the project
of visiting all the prisons in Paris to take out the prisoners and administer prompt justice
on them."--On the 12th in the markets "diverse groups of the low class call Pétion a scoundrel,"
because "he saved the Swiss in the Palais Bourbon"; accordingly, "he and the Swiss must be
hung to-day."-In these minds turned topsy-turvy the actual, palpable truth gives way to its
opposite; "the attack was not begun by them; the order to sound the tocsin came from the palace;
it is the palace which was besieging the nation, and not the nation which was besieging the
palace."[3107] The vanquished "are the assassins of the people," caught in the act; and on
the 14th of August the Federates demand a court-martial "to avenge the death of their comrades."[3108]
And even a court-martial will not answer. "It is not sufficient to mete out punishment for
crimes committed on the 10th of August, but the vengeance of the people must be extended to
all conspirators;" to that "Lafayette, who probably was not in Paris, but who may have been
there;" to all the ministers, generals, judges, and other officials guilty of maintaining legal
order wherever it had been maintained, and of not having recognized the Jacobin government
before it came into being. Let them be brought before, not the ordinary courts, which are not
to be trusted because they belong to the defunct régime, but before a specially organized tribunal,
a sort of "chambre ardente,"[3109] elected by the sections, that is to say, by a Jacobin minority.
These improvised judges must give judgment on conviction, without appeal; there must be no
preliminary examinations, no interval of time between arrest and execution, no dilatory and
protective formalities. And above all, the Assembly must be expeditious in passing the decree;
"otherwise," it is informed by a delegate from the Commune,[3110] "the tocsin will be rung
at midnight and the general alarm sounded; for the people are tired of waiting to be avenged.
Look out lest they do themselves justice!--A moment later, new threats and with an advanced
deadline. "If the juries are not ready to act in two or three hours great misfortunes will
overtake Paris."

Even if the new tribunal, set up on the spot, is quick, guillotining three innocent persons
in five days; it does not move fast enough. On the 23rd of August one of the sections declares
to the Commune in furious language that the people themselves, "wearied and indignant" with
so many delays, mean to force open the prisons and massacre the inmates.[3111]--Not only do
the sections harass the judges, but they force the accused into their presence: a deputation
from the Commune and the Federates summons the Assembly "to transfer the criminals at Orleans
to Paris to undergo the penalty of their heinous crimes". "Otherwise," says the speaker, "we
will not answer for the vengeance of the people."[3112] And in a still more imperative manner:

"You have heard and you know that insurrection is a sacred duty," a sacred duty towards and
against all: towards the Assembly if it refuses, and towards the tribunal if it acquits. They
dash at their prey contrary to all legislative and judicial formalities, like a kite across
the web of a spider, while nothing detach them from their fixed ideas. On the acquittal of
M. Luce de Montmorin[3113] the gross audience, mistaking him for his cousin the former minister
of Louis XVI., break out in murmurs. The president tries to enforce silence, which increases
the uproar, and M. de Montmorin is in danger. On this the president, discovering a side issue,
announces that one of the jurors is related to the accused, and that in such a case a new jury
must be impaneled and a new trial take place; that the matter will be inquired into, and meanwhile
the prisoner will be returned to the Conciergerie prison. Thereupon he takes M. de Montmorin
by the arm and leads him out of the court-room, amidst the yells of the audience and not without
risks to himself; in the outside court a soldier of the National Guard strikes at him with
a saber, and the following day the court is obliged to authorize eight delegates from the audience
to go and see with their own eyes that M. de Montmorin is really in prison.

At the moment of his acquittal a tragic remark is heard:

"You discharge him to-day and in two weeks he will cut our throats!"

Fear is evidently an adjunct of hatred. The Jacobin rabble is vaguely conscious of their inferior
numbers, of their usurpation, of their danger, which increases in proportion as Brunswick draws
near. They feel that they live above a mine, and if the mine should explode!--Since they think
that their adversaries are scoundrels they feel they are capable of a dirty trick, of a plot,
of a massacre. As they themselves have never behaved in any other way, they cannot conceive
anything else. Through an inevitable inversion of thought, they impute to others the murderous
intentions obscurely wrought out in the dark recesses of their own disturbed brains.--On the
27th of August, after the funeral procession gotten up by Sergent expressly to excite popular
resentment, their suspicions, at once specific and guided, begin to take the form of certainty.
Ten "commemorative" banners,[3114] each borne by a volunteer on horseback, have paraded before
all eyes the long list of massacres "by the court and its agents":

1. the massacre at Nancy,

2. the massacre at Nîmes,

3. the massacre at Montauban,

4. the massacre at Avignon,

5. the massacre at La Chapelle,

6. the massacre at Carpentras,

7. the massacre of the Champ de Mars, etc.

Faced with such displays, doubts and misgivings are out of the question. To the women in the
galleries, to the frequenters of the clubs, and to pikemen in the suburbs it is from now beyond
any doubt proved that the aristocrats are habitual killers.

And on the other side there is another sign equally alarming "This lugubrious ceremony, which
ought to inspire by turns both reflection and indignation,... did not generally produce that
effect." The National Guard in uniform, who came "apparently to make up for not appearing on
the day of action," did not behave themselves with civic propriety, but, on the contrary, put
on "an air of inattention and even of noisy gaiety"; they come out of curiosity, like so many
Parisian onlookers, and are much more numerous than the sans-culottes with their pikes.[3115]
The latter could count themselves and plainly see that they are just a minority, and a very
small one, and that their rage finds no echo. The organizers and their stooges are the only
ones to call for speedy sentencing and for death-penalties. A foreigner, a good observer, who
questions the shop-keepers of whom he makes purchases, the tradesmen he knows, and the company
he finds in the coffee-houses, writes that he never had "seen any symptom of a sanguinary disposition
except in the galleries of the National Assembly and at the Jacobin Club," but then the galleries
are full of paid "applauders,' especially "females, who are more noisy and to be had cheaper
than males." At the Jacobin Club are "the leaders, who dread a turnaround or who have resentments
to gratify[3116]": thus the only enragés are the leaders and the populace of the suburbs.--Lost
in the crowd of this vast city, in the face of a National Guard still armed and three times
their own number, confronting an indifferent or discontented bourgeoisie, the patriots are
alarmed. In this state of anxiety a feverish imagination, exasperated by the waiting, involuntarily
gives birth to imaginings passionately accepted as truths. All that is now required is an incident
in order to put the final touch to complete the legend, the germ of which has unwittingly grown
in their minds.

On the 1st of September a poor wagoner, Jean Julien,[3117] condemned to twelve years in irons,
has been exposed in the pillory. After two hours he becomes furious, probably on account of
the jeers of the bystanders. With the coarseness of people of his kind he has vented his impotent
rage by abuse, he has unbuttoned and exposed himself to the public, and has naturally chosen
expressions which would appear most offensive to the people looking at him:

"Hurrah for the King! Hurrah for the Queen! Hurra for Lafayette! To hell with the nation!"

It is also natural that he missed being torn to pieces. He was at once led away to the Conciergerie
prison, and sentenced on the spot to be guillotined as soon as possible, for being a promoter
of sedition in connection with the conspiracy of August the 10th.--The conspiracy, accordingly,
is still in existence. It is so declared by the tribunal, which makes no declaration without
evidence. Jean Julien has certainly confessed; now what has he revealed?--On the following
day, like a crop of poisonous mushrooms, the growth of a single night, the story obtains general
credence. "Jean Julien has declared that all the prisons in Paris thought as he did, that there
would soon be fine times, that the prisoners were armed, and that as soon as the volunteers
cleared out they would be let loose on all Paris."[3118] The streets are full of anxious faces.
"One says that Verdun had been betrayed like Longwy. Others shook their heads and said it was
the traitors within Paris and not the declared enemies on the frontier that were to be feared."[3119]
On the following day the story grows: "There are royalist officers and soldiers hidden away
in Paris and in the outskirts. They are going to open the prisons, arm the prisoners, set the
King and his family free, put the patriots in Paris to death, also the wives and children of
those in the army... Isn't it natural for men to look after the safety of their wives and children,
and to use the only efficient means to arrest the assassin's dagger."[3120]--The working-class
inferno has been stirred up, now it's up to the contractors of public revolt to fan and direct
the flames.

III. Terror is their Salvation.

     Rise of the homicidal idea among the leaders.--Their
     situation.--The powers they seize.--Their pillage.--The
     risks they run--Terror is their rescue.

They have been fanning the flames for a long time. Already, on the 11th of August, the new
Commune had announced, in a proclamation,[3121] that "the guilty should perish on the scaffold,"
while its threatening deputations force the national Assembly into the immediate institution
of a bloody tribunal. Carried into power by brutal force, it must perish if it does not maintain
itself, and this can be done only through terror.--Let us pause and consider this unusual situation.
Installed in the Hôtel-de-ville by a nightly surprise attack, about one hundred strangers,
delegated by a party which thinks or asserts itself to be the peoples' delegates, have overthrown
one of the two great powers of the State, mangled and enslaved the other, and now rule in a
capital of 700,000 souls, by the grace of eight or ten thousand fanatics and cut-throats. Never
did a radical change promote men from so low a point and raise so high! The basest of newspaper
scribblers, penny-a-liners out of the gutters, bar-room oracles, unfrocked monks and priests,
the refuse of the literary guild, of the bar, and of the clergy, carpenters, turners, grocers,
locksmiths, shoemakers, common laborers, many with no profession at all, strolling politicians
and [3122]public brawlers, who, like the sellers of counterfeit wares, have speculated for
the past three years on popular credulity. There were among them a number of men in bad repute,
of doubtful honesty or of proven dishonesty, who, in their youth led shiftless lives. They
are still besmirched with old slime, they were put outside the pale of useful labor by their
vices, driven out of inferior stations even into prohibited occupations, bruised by the perilous
leap, with consciences distorted like the muscles of a tight-rope dancer. Were it not for the
Revolution, they would still grovel in their native filth, awaiting prison or forced labor
to which they were destined. Can one imagine their growing intoxication as they drink deep
draughts from the bottomless cup of absolute power?--For it is absolute power which they demand
and which they exercise.[3123] Raised by a special delegation above the regular authorities,
they put up with these only as subordinates, and tolerate none among them who may become their
rivals. Consequently, they reduce the Legislative body simply to the function of editor and
herald of their decrees; they have forced the new department electors to "abjure their title,"
to confine themselves to tax assessments, while they lay their ignorant hands daily on every
other service, on the finances, the army, supplies, the administration, justice, at the risk
of breaking the administrative wheels or of interrupting their action.

One day they summon the Minister of War before them, or, for lack of one, his chief clerk;
another day they keep the whole body of officials in his department in arrest for two hours,
under the pretext of finding a suspected printer.[3124] At one time they affix seals on the
funds devoted to extraordinary expenses; at another time they do away with the commission on
supplies; at another they meddle with the course of justice, either to aggravate proceedings
or to impede the execution of sentences rendered.[3125] There is no principle, no law, no regulation,
no verdict, no public man or establishment that is not subject to the risk of their arbitrariness.--And,
as they have laid hands on power, they do the same with money. Not only do they extort from
the Assembly 850,000 francs a months, with arrears from the 1st of January, 1792, more than
six millions in all, to defray the expenses of their military police, which means to pay their
bands,[3126] but again, "invested with the municipal scarf," they seize, "in the public establishment
belonging to the nation, all furniture, and whatever is of most value." "In one building alone,
they carry off the value of 100,000 crowns."[3127] Elsewhere, in the hands of the treasurer
of the civil list, they appropriate to themselves, a box of jewels, other precious objects,
and 340, 000 francs.[3128] Their commissioners bring in from Chantilly three wagons each drawn
by three horses "loaded with the spoils of M. de Condé," and they undertake "removing the contents
of the houses of the émigrés."[3129] They confiscate in the churches of Paris "the crucifixes,
music-stands, bells, railings, and every object in bronze or of iron, chandeliers, cups, vases,
reliquaries, statues, every article of plate," as well "on the altars as in the sacristies,"[3130]
and we can imagine the enormous booty obtained; to cart away the silver plate belonging to
the single church of Madeleine-de-la-ville required a vehicle drawn by four horses.--Now they
use all this money, so freely seized, as freely as they do power itself. One fills his pockets
in the Tuileries without the slightest concern; another, in the Garde-Meuble, rummages secretaries,
and carries off a wardrobe with its contents.[3131] We have already seen that in the depositories
of the Commune "most of the seals are broken," that enormous sums in plate, in jewels, in gold
and silver coin have disappeared. Future inquests and accounts will charge on the Committee
of Supervision, "abstractions, dilapidations, and embezzlements," in short, "a mass of violations
and breaches of trust."--When one is king, one easily mistakes the money-drawer of the State
for the drawer in which one keeps one's own money.

Unfortunately, this full possession of public power and the public funds holds only by a slender
thread. Let the evicted and outraged majority dare, as subsequently at Lyons, Marseilles, and
Toulon, to Return to the section assemblies and revoke the false mandate which they have arrogated
to themselves through fraud and force, and, on the instance, they again become, through the
sovereign will of the people, and by virtue of their own deed, what they really are, usurpers,
extortioners, and robbers, there is no middle course for them between a dictatorship and the
galleys.--The mind, before such an alternative, unless extraordinarily well-balanced, loses
its equilibrium; they have no difficulty in deluding themselves with the idea that the State
is menaced in their persons, and, in postulating the rule, that all is allowable for them,
even massacre. Has not Bazire stated in the tribune that, against the enemies of the nation,
"all means are fair justifiable? Has not another deputy, Jean Debry, proposed the formation
of a body of 1,200 volunteers, who "will sacrifice themselves," as formerly the assassins of
the Old Man of the Mountain, in "attacking tyrants, hand to hand, individually," as well as
generals?[3132] Have we not seen Merlin de Thionville insisting that "the wives and children
of the émigrés should be kept as hostages," and declared responsible, or, in other words, ready
for slaughter if their relatives continue their attacks?[3133]

That is all that is left to do, since all the other measures have proved insufficient.--In
vain has the Commune decreed the arrest of journalists belonging to the opposite party, and
distributed their printing machinery amongst patriotic printers.[3134] In vain has it declared
the members of the Sainte-Chapelle club, the National Guards who have sworn allegiance to Lafayette,
the signers of the petition of 8,000, and of that of 20,000, disqualified for any service whatever.[3135]
In vain has it multiplied domiciliary visits, even to the residence and carriages of the Venetian
ambassador. In vain, through insulting and repeated examinations, does it keep at its bar,
under the hootings and death-cries of its tribunes, the most honorable and most illustrious
men, Lavoisier, Dupont de Nemours, the eminent surgeon Desault, the most harmless and most
refined ladies, Madame de Tourzel, Mademoiselle de Tourzel, and the Princesse de Lamballe.[3136]
In vain, after a profusion of arrests during twenty days, it envelopes all Paris inside one
cast of its net for a nocturnal search[3137]during which,

1. the barriers are closed and doubly guarded,

2. sentinels are on the quays and boats stationed on the Seine to prevent escape by water,

3. the city is divided beforehand into circumscriptions, and for each section, a list of suspected
persons,

4. the circulation of vehicles is stopped,

5. every citizen is ordered to stay at home,

6. the silence of death reigns after six o'clock in the evening, and then,

7. in each street, a patrol of sixty pikemen, seven hundred squads of sans-culottes, all working
at the same time, and with their usual brutality,

8. doors are burst in with pile drivers,

9. wardrobes are picked by locksmiths,

10. walls are sounded by masons,

11. cellars are searched even to digging in the ground,

12. papers are seized,

13. arms are confiscated,

14. three thousand persons are arrested and led off;[3138] priests, old men, the infirm, the sick.

The action lasts from ten in the evening to five o'clock in the morning, the same as in a city
taken by assault, the screams of women rudely treated, the cries of prisoners compelled to
march, the oaths of the guards, cursing and drinking at each grog-shop; never was there such
an universal, methodical execution, so well calculated to suppress all inclination for resistance
in the silence of general stupefaction.

And yet, at this very moment, there are those who act in good faith in the sections and in
the Assembly, and who rebel at being under such masters. A deputation from the Lombards section,
and another from the Corn-market, come to the Assembly and protest against the Commune's usurpations.[3139]
Choudieu, the Montagnard, denounces its blatant corrupt practices. Cambon, a stern financier,
will no longer consent to have his accounts tampered with by thieving tricksters.[3140] The
Assembly at last seems to have recovered itself. It extends its protection to Géray, the journalist,
against whom the new pashas had issued a warrant; it summons to its own bar the signers of
the warrant, and orders them to confine themselves in future to the exact limits of the law
which they transgress. Better still, it dissolves the interloping Council, and substitutes
for it ninety-six delegates, to be elected by the sections in twenty-four hours. And, even
still better, it orders an account to be rendered within two days of the objects it has seized,
and the return of all gold or silver articles to the Treasury. Quashed, and summoned to disgorge
their booty, the autocrats of the Hôtel-de-ville come in vain to the Assembly in force on the
following day[3141] to extort from it a repeal of its decrees; the Assembly, in spite of their
threats and those of their satellites, stands its ground.--So much the worse for the stubborn;
if they are not disposed to regard the flash of the saber, they will feel its sharp edge and
point. The Commune, on the motion of Manuel, decides that, so long as public danger continues,
they will stay where they are; it adopts an address by Robespierre to "restore sovereign power
to the people," which means to fill the streets with armed bands;[3142] it collects together
its brigands by giving them the ownership of all that they stole on the 10th of August.[3143]
The session, prolonged into the night, does not terminate until one o'clock in the morning.
Sunday has come and there is no time to lose, for, in a few hours, the sections, by virtue
of the decree of the National Assembly, and following the example of the Temple section the
evening before, may revoke the pretended representatives at the Hôtel-de-ville. To remain at
the Hôtel-de-ville, and to be elected to the convention, demands on the part of the leaders
some striking action, and this they require that very day.--That day is the second of September.

IV.--Date of the determination of this.--The actors and their parts.

     Marat.--Danton.--The Commune.--Its co-operators.--Harmony of
     dispositions and readiness of operation.

Since the 23rd of August their resolution is taken.[3144] They have arranged in their minds
a plan of the massacre, and each one, little by little, spontaneously, according to his aptitudes,
takes the part that suits him or is assigned to him.

Marat, foremost among them all, is the proposer and preacher of the operation, which, for him,
is a perfectly natural one. It is the epitome of his political system: a dictator or tribune,
with full power to slay, and with no other power but that; a good master executioner, responsible,
and "tied hand and foot"; this is his program for a government since July the 14th, 1789, and
he does not blush at it: "so much the worse for those who are not on a level with it!"[3145]
He appreciated the character of the Revolution from the first, not through genius, but sympathetically,
he himself being equally as one-sided and monstrous; crazy with suspicion and beset with a
homicidal mania for the past three years, reduced to one idea through mental impoverishment,
that of murder, having lost the faculty for even the lowest order of reasoning, the poorest
of journalists, save for pikemen and Billingsgate market-women, so monotonous in his constant
paroxysms that the regular reading of his journal is like listening to hoarse cries from the
cells of a madhouse.[3146] From the 19th of August he excites people to attack the prisons.
"The wisest and best course to pursue," he says, "is to go armed to the Abbaye, drag out the
traitors, especially the Swiss officers and their accomplices, and put them to the sword. What
folly it is to give them a trial! That is already done. You have massacred the soldiers, why
should you spare the officers, ten times guiltier?"--Also, two days later, his brain teeming
with an executioner's fancies, insisting that "the soldiers deserved a thousand deaths. As
to the officers, they should be drawn and quartered, like Louis Capet and his tools of the
Manège."[3147]--On the strength of this the Commune adopts him as its official editor, assigns
him a tribune in its assembly room, entrusts him to report its acts, and soon puts him on its
supervisory or executive committee.

A fanatic of this stamp, however, is good for nothing but as a mouthpiece or instigator; he
may, at best, figure in the end among the subordinate managers.--The chief of the enterprise,[3148]
Danton, is of another species, and of another stature, a veritable leader of men: Through his
past career and actual position, through his popular cynicism, ways and language, through his
capacity for taking the initiative and for command, through his excessive corporeal and intellectual
vigor, through his physical ascendancy due to his ardent, absorbing will, he is well calculated
for his terrible office.--He alone of the Commune has become Minister, and there is no one
but him to shelter the violations of the Commune under the protection or under the passivity
of the central authority.--He alone of the Commune and of the ministry is able to push things
through and harmonize action in the pell-mell of the revolutionary chaos; both in the councils
of the ministry which he governs, as he formerly governed at the Hôtel-de ville. In the constant
uproar of incoherent discussions,[3149] athwart "propositions ex abrupto, among shouts, swearing,
and the going and coming of questioning petitioners," he is seen mastering his new colleagues
with his "stentorian voice, his gestures of an athlete, his fearful threats," taking upon himself
their duties, dictating to them what and whom he chooses, "fetching in commissions already
drawn up," taking charge of everything, "making propositions, arrests, and proclamations, issuing
brevets," and drawing millions out of the public treasury, casting a sop to his dogs in the
Cordeliers and the Commune, "to one 20,000 francs, and to another 10,000," "for the Revolution,
and on account of their patriotism,"--such is a summary report of his doings. Thus gorged,
the pack of hungry "brawlers" and grasping intriguers, the whole serviceable force of the sections
and of the clubs, is in his hands. One is strong in times of anarchy at the head of such a
herd. Indeed, during the months of August and September, Danton was king, and, later on, he
may well say of the 2d of September, as he did of the 10th of August, "I did it!"[3150]

Not that he is naturally vindictive or sanguinary: on the contrary, with a butcher's temperament,
he has a man's heart, and, at the risk of compromising himself, against the wills of Marat
and Robespierre, he will, by-and-by, save his political adversaries, Duport, Brissot, and the
Girondists, the old party of the "Right."[3151] Not that he is blinded by fear, enmities, or
the theory; furious as a clubbist, he has the clear-sightedness of the politician; he is not
the dupe of the sonorous phrases he utters, he knows the value of the rogues he employs;[3152]
he has no illusions about men or things, about other people or about himself; if he slays,
it is with a full consciousness of what he is doing, of his party, of the situation, of the
revolution, while the crude expressions which, in the tones of his bull's voice, he flings
out as he passes along, are but a vivid statement of the precise truth "We are the rabble!
We spring from the gutters!" With the normal principles of mankind, "we should soon get back
into them. We can only rule through fear!"[3153] "The Parisians are so many j... f...; a river
of blood must flow between them and the émigrés."[3154] The tocsin about to be rung is not
a signal of alarm, but a charge on the enemies of the country... What is necessary to overcome
them? Boldness, boldness, always boldness![3155] I have brought my mother here, seventy years
of age; I have sent for my children, and they came last night. Before the Prussians enter Paris,
I want my family to die with me. Let twenty thousand torches be applied, and Paris instantly
reduced to ashes!"[3156] "We must maintain ourselves in Paris at all hazards. Republicans are
in an extreme minority, and, for fighting, we can rely only on them. The rest of France is
devoted to royalty. The royalists must be terrified!"[3157]--It is he who, on the 28th of August,
obtains from the Assembly the great domiciliary visit, by which the Commune fills the prisons.
It is he who, on the 2d of September, to paralyze the resistance of honest people, causes the
penalty of death to be decreed against whoever, "directly or indirectly shall, in any manner
whatsoever, refuse to execute, or who shall interfere with the orders issued, or with the measures
of the executive power." It is he who, on that day, informs the journalist Prudhomme of the
pretended prison plot, and who, the second day after, sends his secretary, Camille Desmoulins,
to falsify the report of the massacres,[3158] It is he who, on the 3rd of September, at the
office of the Minister of Justice, before the battalion officers and the heads of the service,
before Lacroix, president of the Assembly, and Pétion, mayor of Paris, before Clavières, Servan,
Monge, Lebrun, and the entire Executive Council, except Roland, reduces at one stroke the head
men of the government to the position of passive accomplices, replying to a man of feeling,
who rises to stay the slaughter, "Sit down--it was necessary!"[3159] It is he who, the same
day, dispatches the circular, countersigned by him, by which the Committee of Supervision announces
the massacre, and invites "their brethren of the departments" to follow the example of Paris.[3160]
It is he who, on the 10th of September, "not as Minister of Justice, but as Minister of the
People," is to congratulate and thank the slaughterers of Versailles.[3161]--After the 10th
of August, through Billaud-Varennes, his former secretary, through Fabre d'Eglantine, his Keeper
of the Seals, through Tallien, secretary of the Commune and his most trusty henchman, he is
present at all deliberations in the Hôtel-de-ville, and, at the last hour, is careful to put
on the Committee of Supervision one of his own men, the head clerk, Desforges.[3162]--Not only
was the reaping-machine constructed under his own eye, and with his assent, but, again, when
it is put in motion, he holds the handle, so as to guide the scythe.

He is right; if he did not sometimes put on the brake, it would go to pieces through its own
action. Introduced into the Committee as professor of political blood-letting, Marat, stubbornly
following out a fixed idea, cuts down deep, much below the designated line; warrants of arrest
were already out against thirty deputies, Brissot's papers were rummaged, Roland's house was
surrounded, while Duport, seized in a neighboring department, is deposed in the slaughterhouse.
The latter is saved with the utmost difficulty; many a blow is necessary before he can be wrested
from the maniac who had seized him. With a surgeon like Marat, and medics like the four or
five hundred leaders of the Commune and of the sections, it is not essential to guide the knife;
it is a foregone conclusion that the amputation will be extensive. Their names speak for themselves:
in the Commune, Manuel, the syndic-attorney; and his two deputies Hébert and Billaud-Varennes,
Huguenin, Lhuillier, M.-J. Chénier, Audoin, Léonard Bourdon, Boula and Truchon, presidents
in succession. In the Commune and the sections, Panis, Sergent, Tallien, Rossignol, Chaumette,
Fabre d'Eglantine, Pache, Hassenfratz, the cobbler Simon, and the printer Momoro. From the
National Guard, the commanding-general, Santerre, and the battalion commander Henriot, and,
lower down, the common herd of district demagogues, Danton's, Hébert's, or Robespierre's side
kicks, guillotined later on with their file-leaders, in brief, the flower of the future terrorists.[3163]--Today
they are taking their first steps in blood, each with their own attitude and motives:

* Chénier denounced as a member of the Sainte-Chapelle club, in danger because he is among
the suspected;[3164]

* Manuel, poor, excitable, bewildered, carried away, and afterwards shuddering at the sight
of his own work;

* Santerre, a fine circumspect figure-head, who, on the 2nd of September, under pretense of
watching the baggage, climbs on the seat of a landau standing on the street, where he remains
a couple of hours, to avoid doing his duty as commanding-general;[3165]

* Panis, president of the Committee of Supervision, a good subordinate, his born disciple and
bootlicker, an admirer of Robespierre's whom he proposes for the dictatorship, as well as of
Marat, whom he extols as a prophet;[3166]

* Henriot, Hébert, and Rossignol, simple evil-doers in uniform or in their scarves;

* Collot d'Herbois, a stage poetaster, whose theatrical imagination delights in a combination
of melodramatic horrors;[3167]

* Billaud-Varennes, a former oratorian monk, irascible and gloomy, as cool before a murder
as an inquisitor at an auto-da-fé;

finally, the wily Robespierre, pushing others without committing himself, never signing his
name, giving no orders, haranguing a great deal, always advising, showing himself everywhere,
getting ready to reign, and suddenly, at the last moment, pouncing like a cat on his prey,
and trying to slaughter his rivals, the Girondists.[3168]

Up to this time, in slaughtering or having it done, it was always as insurrectionists in the
street; now, it is in places of imprisonment, as magistrates and functionaries, according to
the registers of a lock-up, after proofs of identity and on snap judgments, by paid executioners,
in the name of public security, methodically, and in cool blood, almost with the same regularity
as subsequently under "the revolutionary government." September, indeed, is the beginning of
it, a summary and a model; they will not do it differently or better than during the best days
of the guillotine. Only, as they are as yet poorly supplied with tools, they are obliged to
use pikes instead of the guillotine, and, as decency has not entirely disappeared, the chiefs
conceal themselves behind maneuvers. Nevertheless, we can track them, take them in the act,
and we have their signatures; they planned commanded, and conducted the operation. On the 30th
of August, the Commune decided that the sections should try accused persons, and, on the 2nd
of September, five trusted sections reply to it by resolving that the accused shall be murdered.[3169]
The same day, September 2, Marat takes his place on the Committee of Supervision. The same
day, September 2, Panis and Sergent sign the commissions of "their comrades," Maillard and
associates, for the Abbaye, and "order them to judge," that is to say, kill the prisoners.[3170]
The same and the following days, at La Force, three members of the Commune, Hébert, Monneuse,
and Rossignol, preside in turn over the assassin court.[3171] The same day, a commissar of
the Committee of Supervision comes and demands a dozen men of the Sans-Culottes section to
help massacre the priests of Saint Firmin.[3172] The same day, a commissar of the Commune visits
the different prisons during the slaughter, and finds that "things are going on well in all
of them."[3173] The same day, at five o'clock in the afternoon, Billaud-Varennes, deputy-attorney
for the Commune, "in his well-known puce-colored coat and black perruque," walking over the
corpses, says to the Abbaye butchers: "Fellow-citizens, you are immolating your enemies, you
are performing your duty." He returns during the night, highly commends them, and confirms
the promise of the "agreed wages." On the following any at noon, he again returns, congratulates
them more warmly, allows each one twenty francs, and urges them to keep on.[3174]--In the mean
time, Santerre, summoned to the general staff headquarters by Roland, hypocritically deplores
his voluntary inability, and persists in not giving the orders, without which the National
Guard cannot move.[3175] At the sections, the presidents, Chénier, Ceyrat, Boula, Momoro, Collot
d'Herbois, dispatch or take their victims back under pikes. At the Commune, the council-general
votes 12,000 francs, to be taken from the dead, to defray the expenses of the operation.[3176]
In the Committee of Supervision, Marat sends off dispatches to spread murder through the departments.--It
is evident that the leaders and their subordinates are unanimous, each at his post and in the
service he performs; through the spontaneous co-operation of the whole party, the command from
above meets the impulse from below;[3177] both unite in a common murderous disposition, the
work being done with the more precision in proportion to its being easily done.--Jailers have
received orders to open the prison doors, and give themselves no concern. Through an excess
of precaution, the knives and forks of the prisoners have been taken away from them.[3178]
One by one, on their names being called, they will march out like oxen in a slaughter-house,
while about twenty butchers to each prison, from to two to three hundred in all,[3179] will
suffice to do the work.

V. Abasement and Stupor.

     Common workers.--Their numbers.--Their condition.--Their
     sentiments.--Effect of murder on the murderers.--Their
     degradation.--Their insensibility.

Two kinds of men make up the recruits, and it is especially on their crude brains that we have
to admire the effect of the revolutionary dogma.

First, there are the Federates of the South, lusty fellows, former soldiers or old bandits,
deserters, bohemians, and scoundrels of all lands and from every source, who, after finishing
their work at Marseilles and Avignon, have come to Paris to begin over again. "Triple nom de
Dieu!" exclaims one of them, "I didn't come a hundred and eighty leagues to restrain myself
from sticking a hundred and eighty heads on the end of my pike!"[3180] Accordingly, they form
in themselves a special, permanent, resident body, allowing no one to divert them from their
adopted occupation. "They turn a deaf ear to the excitements of spurious patriotism";[3181]
they are not going to be sent off to the frontier. Their post is at the capital; they have
sworn "to defend liberty"; neither before nor after September make them deviate from this end.
When, after having drawn money on every treasury and under every pretext, they at last consent
to leave Paris, it is only on the condition that they return to Marseilles. Their operations
are limited to the interior of France, and only against political adversaries. But their zeal
in this field is only the greater; it is their band which, first of all, takes the twenty-four
priests from the town hall, and, on the way, begins the massacre with their own hands.[3182]

Then there are the "enragés" of the Paris proletariat, a few of them clerks or shopkeepers,
most of them artisans of all the trades; locksmiths, masons, butchers, wheelwrights, tailors,
shoemakers, waggoners, especially dockers working in the harbor, market-porters, and, above
all, journeymen and apprentices of all kinds, in short, manual workers on the bottom of the
social ladder.[3183] Among these we find beasts of prey, murderers by instinct, or simple robbers.[3184]
Others who, like one of the disciples of Abbé Sicard, whom he loves and venerates, confess
that they never stirred except under constraint.[3185] Others are simple machines, who let
themselves be driven: for instance the local forwarding agent, a good sort of man, but who,
dragged along, plied with liquor, and then made crazy, kills twenty priests for his share,
and dies at the end of the month, still drinking, unable to sleep, frothing at the mouth and
trembling in every limb.[3186] And finally the few, who, with good intentions, are carried
away by the bloody whirlwind, and, struck by the grace of Revolution, become converted to the
religion of murder. One of them a certain Grapin, deputized by his section to save two prisoners,
seats himself alongside of Maillard, sits in judgment at his side during sixty-three hours,
and demands a certificate from him.[3187] The majority, however, entertain the same opinions
as the cook, who, after taking the Bastille, finding himself on the spot and having cut off
M. de Launay's head, regards it as a "patriotic" action, and deems himself worthy of a "medal
for having destroyed a monster." These people are not common criminals, but well-disposed persons
living in the vicinity, who, seeing a public service established in their neighborhood,[3188]
issue from their homes to give a hand; their degree of probity is about the same as we find
nowadays among people of the same condition in life.

At the outset, especially, no one considers filling his pockets. At the Abbaye prison, they
come honorably and place on the table in the room of the civil committee the purses and jewels
of the dead.[3189] If they appropriate anything to themselves, it is shoes to cover their naked
feet, and then only after asking permission. As to pay, all rough work deserves it, and, moreover,
between them and their recruiters, the answer is obvious. With nothing but their own hands
to rely on, they cannot work for nothing,[3190] and, as the work is hard, they ought to be
paid double time. They require six francs a day, besides their meals and as much wine as they
want. One caterer alone furnished the men at the Abbaye with 346 pints:[3191] when working
incessantly day and night with a task like that of sewer-cleaners and miners, nothing else
will keep their courage up.--Food and wages must be paid for by the nation; the work is done
for the nation, and, naturally, on interposing formalities, they get out of temper and betake
themselves to Roland, to the City treasurer, to the section committees, to the Committee of
Supervision,[3192] murmuring, threatening, and showing their bloody pikes. That is the evidence
of having done their work well. They boast of it to Pétion, impress upon him how "just and
attentive" they were,[3193] their discernment, the time given to the work, so many days and
so many hours; they ask only for what is "due to them"; when the treasurer, on paying them,
demands their names, they give them without the slightest hesitation. Those who escort a dismissed
prisoner; masons, hairdressers, federates, require no recompense but "something to drink";
"we do not carry on this business for money," they say; "here is your friend; he promised us
a glass of brandy, which we will take and then go back to our work."[3194]--Outside of their
business they possess the expansive cordiality and ready sensitivity of the Parisian workman.
At the Abbaye, a federate,[3195] on learning that the prisoners had been kept without water
for twenty-six hours, wanted to "exterminate" the turnkey for his negligence, and would have
done it if "the prisoners themselves had not pleaded for him." On the acquittal of a prisoner,
the guards and the butchers, everybody, embraces him with enthusiasm; Weber is greeted again
and again for more than a hundred yards; they cheer to excess. Each wants to escort the prisoner;
the cab of Mathon de la Varenne is invaded; "they perch themselves on the driver's seat, at
the doors, on top, and behind."[3196]--A few even display strange fits of tact. Two of the
butchers, still covered with blood, who lead the chevalier de Bertrand home, insist on going
up stairs with him to witness the joy of his family; after their terrible task they need the
relaxation of tender emotion. On entering, they wait discreetly in the drawing-room until the
ladies have been prepared; the happiness of which they are witnesses melts them; they remain
some time, refuse money, expressing their gratitude and depart.[3197]--Still more extraordinary
are the vestiges of innate politeness. A market-porter desirous of embracing a discharged prisoner,
first asks his permission. Old "hags," who had just clapped their hands at the slaughtering,
stop the guards "violently" as they hurry Weber along, in white silk stockings, across pools
of blood: "Hey, guard, look out, you are making Monsieur walk in the gutter!"[3198] In short,
they display the permanent qualities of their race and class; they seem to be neither above
nor below the average of their brethren, Most of them, probably, would never have done anything
very monstrous had a rigid police, like that which maintains order in ordinary times, kept
them in their shops or at home in their lodgings or in their tap-rooms.

But, in their own eyes, they are so many kings; "sovereignty is committed to their hands,"[3199]
their powers are unlimited; whoever doubts this is a traitor, and is properly punished; he
must be put out of the way; while, for royal councillors, they take maniacs and rascals, who,
through monomania or calculation, have preach all that to them: just like a Negro king surrounded
by white slave-dealers, who urge him into raids, and by black sorcerers, who prompt him to
massacre. How could such a man with such guides, and in such an office, be retarded by the
formalities of justice, or by the distinctions of equity? Equity and justice are the elaborate
products of civilization, while he is merely a political savage. In vain are the innocent recommended
to his mercy!

"Look here, citizen,[31100] do you, too, want to put us to sleep? Suppose that those cursed
Prussian and Austrian beggars were in Paris, would they pick out the guilty? Wouldn't they
strike right and left, the same as the Swiss did on the 10th of August? Very well, I can't
make speeches, but I don't put anybody to sleep. I say, I am the father of a family--I have
a wife and five children that I mean to leave here for the section to look after, while I go
and fight the enemy. But I have no intention that while I am gone these villains here in prison,
and other villains who would come and let them out, should cut the throats of my wife and children.
I have three boys who I hope will some day be more useful to their country than those rascals
you want to save. Anyhow, all that can be done is to let 'em out and give them arms, and we
will fight 'em on an equal footing. Whether I die here or on the frontiers, scoundrels would
kill me all the same, and I will sell my life dearly. But, whether it is done by me or by someone
else, the prison shall be cleaned out of those cursed beggars, there, now!" At this a general
cry is heard: "He's right! No mercy! Let us go in!"

All that the crowd assent to is an improvised tribunal, the reading of the jailer's register,
and prompt judgment; condemnation and slaughter must follow, according to the famous Commune,
which simplifies things--There is another simplification still more formidable, which is the
condemnation and slaughter by categories. Any title suffices, Swiss, priest, officer, or servant
of the King, "the 'worms' on the civil list"; wherever a lot of priests or Swiss are found,
it is not worth while to have a trial, the throats of the lot can be slit.--Reduced to this,
the operation is adapted to the operators; the arms of the new sovereign are as strong as his
mind is weak, and, through an inevitable adaptation, he degrades his work to the level of his
faculties.

His work, in its turn, degrades and perverts him. No man, and especially a man of the people,
rendered pacific by an old civilization, can, with impunity, become at one stroke both sovereign
and executioner. In vain does he work himself up against the condemned and heap insults on
them to augment his fury;[31101] I he is dimly conscious of committing a great crime, and his
soul, like that of Macbeth, "is full of scorpions." Through a terrible tightening up, he hardens
himself against the inborn, hereditary impulses of humanity; these resist while he becomes
exasperated, and, to stifle them, there is no other way but to "gorge himself on horrors,"[31102]
by adding murder to murder. For murder, especially as he practices it, that is to say, with
a naked sword on defense-less people, introduces into his animal and moral machine two extraordinary
and disproportionate emotions which unsettle it, on the one hand, a sensation of omnipotence
exercised uncontrolled, unimpeded, without danger, on human life, on throbbing flesh[31103]
and, on the other hand, an interest in bloody and diversified death, accompanied with an ever
new series of contortions and exclamations;[31104] formerly, in the Roman circus, one could
not tear one's self away from it; the spectacle once seen, the spectator always returned to
see it again. Just at this time each prison court is a circus, and what makes it worse is that
the spectators are likewise actors.--Thus, for them, two fiery liquids mingle together in one
draught. To moral intoxication is added physical intoxication, wine in profusion, bumpers at
every pause, revelry over corpses; and we see rising out of this unnatural creature the demon
of Dante, at once brutal and refined, not merely a destroyer, but, again, an executioner, instigator
and calculator of suffering, and radiant and joyous over the evil it accomplishes.

They are merry; they dance around each new corpse, and sing the carmagnole;[31105] they arouse
the people of the quarter "to amuse them," and that they may have their share of "the fine
fête."[31106] Benches are arranged for "gentlemen" and others for "ladies": the latter, with
greater curiosity, are additionally anxious to contemplate at their ease "the aristocrats"
already slain; consequently, lights are required, and one is placed on the breast of each corpse.--Meanwhile,
the slaughter continues, and is carried to perfection. A butcher at the Abbaye[31107] complains
that "the aristocrats die too quick, and that those only who strike first have the pleasure
of it"; henceforth they are to be struck with the backs of the swords only, and made to run
between two rows of their butchers, like soldiers formerly running a gauntlet. If there happens
to be well-known person, it is agreed to take more care in prolonging the torment. At La Force,
the Federates who come for M. de Rulhières swear "with frightful imprecations that they will
cut the head of anyone daring to end his sufferings with a thrust of his pike"; the first thing
is to strip him naked, and then, for half an hour, with the flat of their sabers, they cut
and slash him until he drips with blood and is "skinned to his entrails."--All the monstrous
instincts who grovels chained up in the dregs of the human heart, not only cruelty with its
bared fangs,[31108] but also the slimier desires, unite in fury against women whose noble or
infamous repute makes them conspicuous; against Madame de Lamballe, the Queen's friend; against
Madame Desrues, widow of the famous poisoner; against the flower-girl of the Palais-Royal,
who, two years before, had mutilated her lover, a French guardsman, in a fit of jealousy. Ferocity
here is associated with lewdness to add debasement to torture, while life is violated through
outrages on modesty. In Madame de Lamballe, killed too quickly, the libidinous butchers could
outrage only a corpse, but for the widow,[31109] and especially the flower-girl, they revive,
like so many Neros, the fire-circle of the Iroquois.[31110]--From the Iroquois to the cannibal,
the gulf is small, and some of them jump across it. At the Abbaye, an old soldier named Damiens,
buries his saber in the side of the adjutant-general la Leu, thrusts his hand into the opening,
tears out the heart "and puts it to his mouth as if to eat it"; "the blood," says an eye-witness,
"trickled from his mouth and formed a sort of mustache for him."[31111] At La Force, Madame
de Lamballe is carved up. What Charlot, the wig-maker, who carried her head did, I to it, should
not be described. I merely state that another wretch, in the Rue Saint-Antoine, bore off her
heart and "ate it."[31112]

They kill and they drink, and drink and kill again. Weariness comes and stupor begins. One
of them, a wheelwright's apprentice, has dispatched sixteen for his share; another "has labored
so hard at this merchandise as to leave the blade of his saber sticking in it"; "I was more
tired," says a Federate, "with two hours pulling limbs to pieces, right and left, than any
mason who for two days has been plastering a wall."[31113] The first excitement is gone, and
now they strike automatically.[31114] Some of them fall asleep stretched out on benches. Others,
huddled together, sleep off the fumes of their wine, removed on one side. The exhalation from
the carnage is so strong that the president of the civil committee faints in his chair,[31115]
the fumes of the tavern blending with those from the charnel-house. A heavy, dull state of
torpor gradually overcomes their clouded brains, the last glimmerings of reason dying out one
by one, like the smoky lights on the already cold breasts of the corpses lying around them.
Through the stupor spreading over the faces of butchers and cannibals, we see appearing that
of the idiot. It is the revolutionary idiot, in which all conceptions, save two, have vanished,
two fixed, rudimentary, and mechanical ideas, one destruction and the other that of public
safety. With no others in his empty head, these blend together through an irresistible attraction,
and the effect proceeding from their contact may be imagined. "Is there anything else to do?"
asks one of these butchers in the deserted court.--"If there is no more to do," reply a couple
of women at the gate, "you will have to think of something,"[31116] and, naturally, this is done.

As the prisons are to be cleaned out, it is as well to clean them all out, and do it at once.
After the Swiss, priests, the aristocrats, and the "white-skinned gentlemen," there remain
convicts and those confined through the ordinary channels of justice, robbers, assassins, and
those sentenced to the galleys in the Conciergerie, in the Châtelet, and in the Tour St. Bernard,
with branded women, vagabonds, old beggars, and boys confined in Bicêtre and the Salpétrière.
They are good for nothing, cost something to feed,[31117] and, probably, cherish evil designs.
At the Salpétrière, for example, the wife of Desrues, the poisoner, is, assuredly, like himself,
"cunning, wicked, and capable of anything"; she must be furious at being in prison; if she
could, she would set fire to Paris; she must have said so; she did say it[31118]--one more
sweep of the broom.--This time, as the job is more foul, the broom is wielded by fouler hands;
among those who seize the handle are the frequenters of jails. The butchers at the Abbaye prison,
especially towards the close, had already committed thefts;[31119] here, at the Châtelet and
the Conciergerie prisons, they carry away "everything which seems to them suitable," even to
the clothes of the dead, prison sheets and coverlids, even the small savings of the jailers,
and, besides this, they enlist their cronies. "Out of 36 prisoners set free, many were assassins
and robbers, the killers attached them to their group. There were also 75 women, confined in
part for larceny, who promised to faithfully serve their liberators." Later on, indeed, these
are to become, at the Jacobin and Cordeliers clubs, the tricoteuses (knitters) who fill their
tribunes.[31120]--At the Salpétrière prison, "all the pimps of Paris, former spies,... libertines,
the rascals of France and all Europe, prepare beforehand for the operation," and rape alternates
with massacre.[31121]--Thus far, at least, slaughter has been seasoned with robbery, and the
grossness of eating and drinking; at Bicétre, however, it is crude butchery, the carnivorous
instinct alone satisfying itself. Among other prisoners are 43 youths of the lowest class,
from 17 to 19 years of age, placed there for correction by their parents, or by those to whom
they are bound;[31122] one need only look at them to see that they are genuine Parisian scamps,
the apprentices of vice and misery, the future recruits for the reigning band, and these the
band falls on, beating them to death with clubs. At this age life is tenacious, and, no life
being harder to take, it requires extra efforts to dispatch them. "In that corner," said a
jailer, "they made a mountain of their bodies. The next day, when they were to be buried, the
sight was enough to break one's heart. One of them looked as if he were sleeping like one of
God's angels, but the rest were horribly mutilated."[31123]--Here, man has sunk below himself,
down into the lowest strata of the animal kingdom, lower that the wolf; for wolves do not strangle
their young.

VI. Jacobin Massacre.

     Effect of the massacre on the public.--General dejection and
     the dissolution of society.--The ascendancy of the Jacobins
     assured in Paris.--The men of September upheld in the
     Commune and elected to the Convention.

There are six days and five nights of uninterrupted butchery,[31124] 171 murders at the Abbaye,
169 at La Force, 223 at the Châtelet, 328 at the Consciergerie, 73 at the Tour-Saint-Bernard,
120 at the Carmelites, 79 at Saint Firmin, 170 at Bicêtre, 35 at the Salpétrière; among the
dead,[31125] 250 priests, 3 bishops or archbishops, general officers, magistrates, one former
minister, one royal princess, belonging to the best names in France, and, on the other side,
one Negro, several working class women, kids, convicts, and poor old men: What man now, little
or big, does not feel himself threatened?--And all the more because the band has grown larger.
Fournier, Lazowski, and Bécard, the chiefs of robbers and assassins, return from Orleans with
fifteen hundred cut-throats.[31126] One the way they kill M. de Brissac, M. de Lessart, and
42 others accused of lése-nation, whom they wrested from their judges' hands, and then, by
the way of surplus, "following the example of Paris," twenty-one prisoners taken from the Versailles
prisons. At Paris the Minister of Justice thanks them, the Commune congratulates them, and
the sections feast them and embrace them.[31127]--Can anybody doubt that they were ready to
begin again? Can a step be taken in or out of Paris without being subject to their oppression
or encountering their despotism? Should one leave the city, sentinels of their species are
posted at the barriers and on the section committees in continuous session. Malouet, led before
that of Roule,[31128] sees before him a pandemonium of fanatics, at least a hundred individuals
in the same room, the suspected, those denouncing them, collaborators, attendants, a long,
green table in the center, covered with swords and daggers, with the committee around it, "twenty
patriots with their shirt sleeves rolled up, some holding pistols and others pens," signing
warrants of arrest, "quarreling with and threatening each other, all talking at once, and shouting:
Traitor!--Conspirator!--Off to prison with him!--Guillotine him!--and behind these, a crowd
of spectators, pell-mell, yelling, and gesticulating" like wild beasts pressed against each
other in the same cage, showing their teeth and trying to spring at each other. "One of the
most excited, brandishing his saber in order to strike an antagonist, stopped on seeing me,
and exclaimed, 'There's Malouet!'--The other, however, less occupied with me than with his
enemy, took advantage of the opportunity, and with a blow of his club, knocked him down." Malouet
had a close shave, in Paris escapes take place by such accidents.--If one remains in the city,
one is beset with lugubrious fears by,

1. the hurrying step of squads of men in each street, leading the suspected to prison or before
the committee;

2. around each prison the crowds that have come "to see the disasters";

3. in the court of the Abaye the cry of the auctioneer selling the clothes of the dead;

4. the rumbling of carts on the pavement bearing away 1,300 corpses;

5. the songs of the women mounted aloft on the carts, beating time on the naked bodies.[31129]

Is there a man who, after one of these encounters, does not see himself in imagination before
the green table of the section committee, after this, in prison with sabers over his head,
and then in the cart in the midst of the bloody pile?

Courage falters before a vision like this. All the journals approve, palliate, or keep silent;
nobody dares offer resistance.[31130] Property as well as lives belong to whoever wants to
take them. At the barriers, at the markets, on the boulevard of the Temple, thieves, decked
with the tricolor ribbon, stop people as they pass along, seize whatever they carry, and, under
the pretext that jewels should be deposited on the altars of Patriotism, take purses, watches,
rings, and other articles, so rudely that women who are not quick enough, have the lobes of
their ears torn in unhooking their earrings[31131]. Others, installed in the cellars of the
Tuileries, sell the nation's wine and oil for their own profit. Others, again, given their
liberty eight days before by the people, scent out a bigger job by finding their way into the
Garde-meuble and stealing diamonds to the value of thirty millions.[31132]

Like a man struck on the head with a mallet, Paris, felled to the ground, lets things go; the
authors of the massacre have fully attained their ends. The faction has fast hold of power,
and will maintain its hold. Neither in the Legislative Assembly nor in the Convention will
the aims of the Girondins be successful against its tenacious usurpation. It has proved by
a striking example that it is capable of anything, and boasts of it; it is still armed, it
stands there ever prepared and anonymous on its murderous basis, with its speedy modes of operation,
its own group of fanatical agents and bravos, with Maillard and Fournier, with its cannon and
its pikes. All that does not live within it lives only through its favor from day to day, through
its good will. Everybody knows that. The Assembly no longer thinks of dislodging people who
meet decrees of expulsion with massacre; it is no longer a question of auditing their accounts,
or of keeping them within the confines of the law. Their dictatorship is not to be disputed,
and their purification continue. From four to five hundred new prisoners, arrested within eleven
days, by order of the municipality, by the sections, and by this or that individual Jacobin,
are crowded into cells still dripping with blood, and the report is spread that, on the 20th
of September, the prisons will be emptied by a second massacre.[31133]--Let the Convention,
if it pleases, pompously install itself as sovereign, and grind out decrees--it makes no difference;
regular or irregular, the government still marches on in the hands of those who hold the sword.[31134]
The Jacobins, through sudden terror, have maintained their illegal authority; through a prolongation
of terror they are going to establish their legal authority. A forced suffrage is going to
put them in office at the Hôtel-de-ville, in the tribunals, in the National Guard, in the sections,
and in the various administrations, while they have already elected to the Convention, Marat,
Danton, Fabre d'Eglantine, Camille Desmoulins, Manuel, Billaud-Varennes, Panis, Sergent, Collot
d'Herbois, Robespierre, Legendre, Osselin, Fréron, David, Robert, Lavicourterie, in short,
the instigators, leaders and accomplices of the massacre.[31135] Nothing that could force or
falsify voting is omitted.[31136] In the first place the presence of the people is imposed
on the electoral assembly, and, to this end, it is transferred to the large hall of the Jacobin
club, under the pressure of the Jacobin galleries. As a second precaution, every opponent is
excluded from voting, every Constitutionalist, every former member of the monarchical club,
of the Feuillants, and of the Sainte-Chapelle club, of the Feuillants, and of the Sainte-Chapelle
club, every signer of the petition of the 20,000, or of that of the 8,000, and, on the sections
protesting against this, their protest is thrown out on the ground of its being the fruit of
"an intrigue." Finally, at each balloting, each elector's vote is called out, which ensures
the right vote beforehand, the warnings he has received being very explicit.[31137] On the
2nd of September, during the first meeting of the electoral body, held at the bishop's palace,
the Marseilles troop, 500 yards away, came and took the twenty-four priests from the town-hall,
and, on the way, hacked them to pieces on the Pont-Neuf. Throughout the evening and all night
the agents of the municipality carried on their work at the Abbaye, at the Carmelites, and
at La Force, and, on the 3rd of September, on the electoral assembly transferring itself to
the Jacobin club, it passed over the Pont-au-Change between two rows of corpses, which the
slaughterers had brought there from the Châtelet and the Conciergerie prisons.

*****

[Footnote 3101: Thierry, son of Clovis, unwilling to take part in an expedition of his brothers
into Burgundy, was told by his men: "If thou art unwilling to march into Burgundy with thy
brothers, we will leave thee and follow them in thy place."--Clotaire, another of his sons,
disposed to make peace with the Saxons, "the angry Francs rush upon him, revile him, and threaten
to kill him if he declines to accompany them. Upon which he puts himself at their head."]

[Footnote 3102: Social condition and degree of culture are often indicated orthographically.--Granier
de Cassagnac, II..480. Bécard, commanding the expedition which brought back the prisoners from
Orleans, signs himself: "Bécard, commandant congointement aveque M. Fournier generalle. "--"Archives
Nationales," F7, 4426. Letter of Chemin, commissioner of the Gravilliers section, to Santerre,
Aug.11, 1792. "Mois Charles Chemin commissaire... fait part à Monsieur Santaire générale de
la troupe parisiene que le nommé Hingray cavaliers de la gendarmeris nationalle.. me délarés
qu'ille sestes trouvés aux jourduis 11 aoux avec une home attachés à la cours aux Equris; quille
lui aves dis quiere 800 home a peupres des sidevant garde du roy étes tous près a fondre sure
Paris pour donaire du sécour a naux rébelle et a signer avec moi la presante."]

[Footnote 3103: On the 19th of March, 1871, I met in the Rue de Varennes a man with two guns
on his shoulder who had taken part in the pillage of the Ecole d'Etat-major and was on his
way home. I said to him: "But this is civil war, and you will let the Prussians in Paris."--"I'd
rather have the Prussians than Thiers. Thiers is Prussian on the inside!"]

[Footnote 3104: Today, 115 years after these words were written, we have seen others, Lenin,
Stalin, Hitler, Pol Pot, Mao Tse Tung, etc following in the Jacobin's footsteps. Nobles, Bourgeois,
Jews and other undesirables have been methodically put away. The sheeplike majority did not
read Taine or did not profit from his warnings while most of the great tyrants learned from
him or from the events he described (SR.)]

[Footnote 3105: Moniteur, Nov. 14, 1792.]

[Footnote 3106: "Archives Nationales," F7, 4426. Letter of the police administrators, Aug.
11. Declaration of Delaunay, Aug. 12.]

[Footnote 3107: Buchez et Roux, XVII. 59 (session of Aug. 12) Speech by Leprieur at the bar
of the house.]

[Footnote 3108: Buchez et Roux, XVII. 47.--Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 31. Speech by Robespierre
at the bar of the Assembly in the name of the commune, Aug. 15.]

[Footnote 3109: Brissot, in his report on Robespierre's petition.--The names of the principal
judges elected show its character: Fouquier-Tinville, Osselin, Coffinhal.]

[Footnote 3110: Buchez et Roux, XVII.91 (Aug. 17).]

[Footnote 3111: Stated by Pétion in his speech (Moniteur, Nov. 10, 1792).]

[Footnote 3112: Buchez et Roux, XVII. 116 (session of Aug. 23).]

[Footnote 3113: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 461.--Moore, I. 273 (Aug. 31).]

[Footnote 3114: Buchez et Roux, XVII. 267 (article by Prudhomme in the "Révolutions de Paris").]

[Footnote 3115: "Les Révolutions de Paris," Ibid., "A number of sans-culottes were there with
their pikes; but these were largely outnumbered by the multitude of uniforms of the various
battalions."--Moore, Aug, 31: "At present the inhabitants of the faubourgs Saint-Antoine and
Saint-Marceau are all that is felt of the sovereign people in Paris."]

[Footnote 3116: More, Aug. 26.]

[Footnote 3117: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 471. Indictment against Jean-Julien.--In referring to
M. Mortimer-Ternaux we do so because, like a true critic, he cites authentic and frequently
unedited documents.]

[Footnote 3118: Rétif de la Bretonne, "les Nuits de Paris," 11th night, p. 372.]

[Footnote 3119: Moore, Sept. 2.]

[Footnote 3120: Moore, Sept. 3.--Buchez et Roux, XVI. 159 (narrative by Tallien).--Official
report of the Paris commune, Sept. 4 (in the collection of Barrière and Berville, the volume
entitled "Mémoires sur les journées de Septembre"). The commune adopts and expands the fable,
probably invented by it. Prudhomme well says that the story of the prison plot, so scandalously
circulated during the Reign of Terror, appears for the first time on the 2d of September. The
same report was spread through the rural districts. At Gennevilliers, a peasant while lamenting
the massacres, said to Malouet: "It is, too, a terrible thing for the aristocrats to want to
kill all the people by blowing up the city" (Malouet, II. 244).]

[Footnote 3121: Official reports of the commune, Aug. 11.]

[Footnote 3122: Mortimer-Ternaux, II. 446. List of the section commissioners sitting at the
Hôtel-de-ville, Aug. 10, before 9 o'clock in the morning.]

[Footnote 3123: Official reports of the commune, Aug. 21. "Considering that, to ensure public
safety and liberty, the council-general of the commune required all the power delegated to
it by the people, at the time it was compelled to resume the exercise of its rights," sends
a deputation to the National Assembly to insist that "the new department be converted, pure
and simple, into a tax-commissioners' office."--Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 25. Speech of Robespierre
in the name of the commune: "After the people have saved the country, after decreeing a National
Convention to replace you, what remains for you to do but to gratify their wishes?... The people,
forced to see to its own salvation, has provided for this through its delegates... It is essential
that those chosen by itself for its magistrates should enjoy the plenary powers befitting the
sovereign."]

[Footnote 3124: Official reports of the commune, Aug. 10.--Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 155. Letter
of the Minister Servan, Aug. 30.-Ibid., 149.--Ibid., 148. The commission on supplies having
been broken up by the commune, Roland, the Minister of the Interior, begs the Assembly to act
promptly, for "he will no longer be responsible for the supplies of Paris."]

[Footnote 3125: Official reports of the commune, Aug. 21. A resolution requiring that, on trials
for lésé-nation, those who appear for the defendants should be provided with a certificate
of their integrity, issued by their assembled section, and that the interviews between them
and the accused be public.--Ibid., Aug.17, a resolution to suspend the execution of the two
assassins of mayor Simonneau, condemned to death by the tribunal of Seine-et-Oise.]

[Footnote 3126: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 11. Decree of Aug.11.]

[Footnote 3127: Prudhomme, "Révolutions de Paris" (number for Sep. 22).. Report by Roland to
the National Assembly (Sept. 16, at 9 o'clock in the morning).]

[Footnote 3128: Madame Roland, "Mémoires," II. 414 (Ed. Barrière et Berville). Report by Roland
Oct. 29. The seizure in question tool place Aug.27.]

[Footnote 3129: "Mémoirs sur les journées de Septembre" (Ed. Barrière et Berville, pp. 307-322).
List of sums paid by the treasurer of the commune.--See, on the prolongation of this plundering,
Roland's report, Oct. 29, of money, plate, and assignats taken from the Senlis Hospital (Sept.
13), the Hotel de Coigny emptied, and sale of furniture in the Hotel d'Egmont, etc.]

[Footnote 3130: Official reports of the commune, Aug. 17 and 20.--List of sums paid by the
treasurer of the commune, p. 321.--On the 28th of August a "Saint-Roch in silver is brought
to the bar of the National Assembly."]

[Footnote 3131: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 150, 161, 511.--Report by Roland, Oct. 29. P. 414.]

[Footnote 3132: Moniteur.514, 542 (sessions of Aug. 23 and 26).]

[Footnote 3133: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 99 (sessions of Aug.15 and 23). "Procès-verbaux de la
Commune," Aug. 18, a resolution to obtain a law authorizing the commune "to collect together
with wives and children of the émigrés in places of security, and to make use of the former
convents for this purpose."]

[Footnote 3134: "Procès-verbaux de la Commune," Aug. 12.--Ibid., Aug. 18. Not being able to
find M. Geoffrey, the journalist, the commune "passes a resolution that seals be affixed to
Madame Geoffroy's domicile and that she be placed in arrest until her husband appears to release
her."]

[Footnote 3135: "Procès-verbaux de la Commune." Aug.17 and 18. Another resolution, again demanding
of the National Assembly a list of the signers for publication.]

[Footnote 3136: "Procès-verbaux de la Commune," Aug. 18, 19, 20.--On the 20th of August the
commune summons before it and examines the Venetian Ambassador. "A citizen claims to be heard
against the ambassador, and states that several carriages went out of Paris in his name. The
name of this citizen is Chevalier, a horse-shoer's assistant... The Council decrees that honorable
mention be made of the affidavits brought forward in the accusation." On the tone of these
examinations read Weber ("Mémoires," II. 245), who narrates his own.]

[Footnote 3137: Buchez et Roux, XVII. 215. Narration by Peltier.--In spite of the orders of
the National Assembly the affair is repeated on the following day, and it lasts from the 19th
to the 31st of August, in the evening.--Moore, Aug.31. The stupid, sheep-like vanity of the
bourgeois enlisted as a gendarme for the sans-culottes is here well depicted. The keeper of
the Hôtel Meurice, where Moore and Lord Lauderdale put up, was on guard and on the chase the
night before: "He talked a good deal of the fatigue he had undergone, and hinted a little of
the dangers to which he had been exposed in the course of this severe duty. Being asked if
he had been successful in his search after suspected persons--'Yes my lord, infinitely; our
battalion arrested four priests.' He could not have looked more lofty if he had taken the Duke
of Brunswick,"]

[Footnote 3138: According to Roederer, the number arrested amounted to from 5,000 to 6,000
persons.]

[Footnote 3139: Mortimer-Ternaux, III.147, 148, Aug.28 and 29.--Ibid., 176. Other sections
complain of the Commune with some bitterness.--Buchez et Roux, XVII. 358.--"Procès-verbaux
de la Commune," Sept. 1. "The section of the Temple sends a deputation which declares that
by virtue of a decree of the National Assembly it withdraws its powers entrusted to the commissioners
elected by it to the council-general."]

[Footnote 3140: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 154 (session of Aug. 30).]

[Footnote 3141: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 171 (session of Aug. 31).--Ibid., 208.----On the following
day, Sept. 1, at the instigation of Danton, Thuriot obtains from the National Assembly an ambiguous
decree which seems to allow the members of the commune to keep their places, provisionally
at least, at the Hotel-de-ville.]

[Footnote 3142: "Procès-verbaux de la Commune," Sept. 1.]

[Footnote 3143: "Procès-verbaux de la Commune," Sept. 1. "It is resolved that whatever effects
fell into the hands of the citizens who fought for liberty and equality on the 10th of August
shall remain in their possession; M. Tallien, secretary-general, is therefore authorized to
return a gold watch to M. Lecomte, a gendarme."]

[Footnote 3144: Four circumstances, simultaneous and in full agreement with each other, indicate
this date: 1. On the 23d of August the council-general resolves "that a tribune shall be arranged
in the chamber for a journalist (M. Marat), whose duty it shall be to conduct a journal giving
the acts passed and what goes on in the commune" ("Procès-verbaux de la Commune," Aug.23) 2.
On the same day, "on the motion of a member with a view to separate the prisoners of lése-nation
from those of the nurse's hospital and others of the same stamp in the different prisons, the
council has adopted this measure" (Granier de Cassagnac, II. 100). 3. The same day the commune
applauds the deputies of a section, which "in warm terms" denounce before it the tardiness
of justice and declare to it that the people will "immolate" the prisoners in their prisons
(Moniteur, Nov. 10, 1793, Narrative of Pétion). The same day it sends a deputation to the Assembly
to order a transfer of the Orleans prisoners to Paris (Buchez et Roux, XVII. 116). The next
day, in spite of the prohibitions of the Assembly, It sends Fournier and his band to Orleans
(Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 364), and each knows beforehand that Fournier is commissioned to kill
them on the way. (Balleydier, "Histoire politique et militaire du people de Lyon," I.79. Letter
of Laussel, dated at Paris, Aug.28): "Our volunteers are at Orleans for the past two or three
days to bring the anti-revolutionary prisoners here, who are treated too well there." On the
day of Fournier's departure (Aug. 24) Moore observes in the Palais Royal and at the Tuileries
"a greater number than usual of stump-speakers of the populace, hired for the purpose of inspiring
the people with a horror of monarchy."]

[Footnote 3145: Moniteur, Sept. 25,1792, speech by Marat in the Convention.]

[Footnote 3146: See his two journals, "L'Ami du people" and the "Journal de la Républic Française,"
especially for July and October 1792.--The number for August 16 is headed: "Development of
the vile plot of the court to destroy all patriots with fire and sword."--That of August 19:
"The infamous conscript Fathers of the Circus, betraying the people and trying to delay the
conviction of traitors until Mottié arrives, is marching with his army on Paris to destroy
all patriots!"--That of Aug. 21: "The rotters of the Assembly, the perfidious accomplices of
Mottié arranging for flight... The conscript Fathers, the assassins of patriots at Nancy, the
Champ de Mars and in the Tuileries, etc."--All this was yelled out daily every morning by those
who hawked these journals through the streets.]

[Footnote 3147: Ami du Peuple, Aug.19 and 21.]

[Footnote 3148: "Lettres autographs de Madame Roland," published by Madame Bancal des Issarts,
Sept. 9. "Danton leads all; Robespierre is his puppet; Marat holds his torch and dagger."]

[Footnote 3149: Madame Roland "Mémoires," II. 19 (note by Roland).--Ibid., 21, 23, 24. Monge
says: "Danton wants to have it so; if I refuse he will denounce me to the Commune and at the
Cordeliers, and have me hung." Fournier's commission to Orleans was all in order, Roland probably
having signed it unawares, like those of the commissioners sent into the departments by the
executive council (Cf. Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 368.)]

[Footnote 3150: The person who gives me the following had it from the king, Louis Philippe,
then an officer in Kellerman's corps: On the evening of the battle of Valmy the young officer
is sent to Paris to carry the news. On his arrival (Sept. 22 or 23. 1792) he learns that he
is removed from his post and appointed governor of Strasbourg. He goes to Servan's house, Minister
of War, and at first they refuse to let him in. Servan is unwell and in bed, with the ministers
in his room. The young man states that he comes from the army and is the bearer of dispatches.
He is admitted, and finds, indeed, Servan in bed with various personages around him, and he
announces the victory.--They question him and he gives the details.--He then complains of having
been displaced, and, stating that he is too young to command with any authority at Strasbourg,
requests to be reinstated with the army in the field. "Impossible," replies Servan; "your place
is given to another." Thereupon one of the personages present, with a peculiar visage and a
rough voice, takes him aside and says to him: "Servan is a fool! Come and see me to-morrow
and I will arrange the matter." "Who are you?" "I am Danton, the Minister of Justice."--The
next day he calls on Danton, who tells him: "It is all right; you shall have your post back--not
under Kellerman, however, but under Dumouriez; are you content?" The young man, delighted,
thanks him. Danton resumes: "Let me give you one piece of advice before you go: You have talent
and will succeed. But get rid of one fault. You talk too much. You have been in Paris twenty-four
hours, and already you have repeatedly criticized the affair of September. I know this; I have
been informed of it" "But that was a massacre; how can one help calling it horrible?" "I did
it," replies Danton, "The Parisians are all so many j--f--. A river of blood had to flow between
them and the émigrés. You are too young to understand these matters. Return to the army; it
is the only place nowadays for a young man like you and of your rank. You have a future before
you; but mind this--keep your mouth shut!"]

[Footnote 3151: Hua, 167.. Narrative by his guest, the physician Lambry, an intimate friend
of Danton ultra-fanatical and member of a committee in which the question came up whether the
members of the "Right" should likewise be put out of the way. "Danton had energetically repelled
this sanguinary proposal. 'Everybody knows,' he said, 'that I do not shrink from a criminal
act when necessary; but I disdain to commit a useless one."']

[Footnote 3152: Mortimer-Ternaux, Iv. 437. Danton exclaims, in relation to the hot-headed commissioners
sent by him into the department: "Eh! damn it, do you suppose that we would send you young
ladies?"]

[Footnote 3153: Philippe de Ségur, "Mémoires,"I.12. Danton, in a conversation with his father,
a few weeks after the 2nd of September.]

[Footnote 3154: See above, narrative of the king, louis Philippe.]

[Footnote 3155: Buchez et Roux, xvii. 347. The words of Danton in the National Assembly, Sept.
2nd a little before two o'clock, just as the tocsin and cannon gave the signal of alarm agreed
upon. Already on the 31st of August, Tailien, his faithful ally, had told the National Assembly:
"We have arrested the priests who make so much trouble. They are in confinement in a certain
domicile, and in a few days the soil of liberty will be purged of their presence."]

[Footnote 3156: Meillan, "Mémoires," 325 (Ed. Barrière et Berville). Speech by Fabre d'Eglantine
at the Jacobin Club, sent around among the affiliated clubs, May 1, 1793.]

[Footnote 3157: Robinet, "Procès des Dantonistes," 39, 45 (words of Danton in the committee
on general defense).--Madame Roland, "Mémoires," II. 30. On the 2nd of September Grandpré ordered
to report to the Minister of the Interior on the state of the prisons, waits for Danton as
he leaves the council and tells him his fears. "Danton, irritated by the description, exclaims
in his bellowing way, suiting his word to the action. 'I don't give a damn about the prisoners!
Let them take care of themselves! And he proceeded on in an angry mood. This took place in
the second ante-room, in the presence of twenty persons."--Arnault, II. 101. About the time
of the September massacres "Danton, in the presence of one of my friends, replied to someone
that urged him to use his authority in stopping the spilling of blood: 'Isn't it time for the
people to take their revenge?' "]

[Footnote 3158: Prudhomme, "Crimes de la Révolution," iv. 90. On the 2nd of September, at the
alarm given by the tocsin and cannon, Prudhomme calls on Danton at his house for information.
Danton gives him the agreed story and adds: "The people, who are now aroused and know what
to do, want to administer justice themselves on the nasty imprisoned persons."--Camille Desmoulins
enters: "Look here," says Danton, "Prudhomme has come to ask what is going to be done?"--"Didn't
you tell him that the innocent would not be confounded with the guilty? All those that are
demanded by their Sections will be given up."--On the 4th, Desmoulins calls at the office of
the journal and says to the editors: "Well, everything has gone off in the most perfect order.
The people even set free a good many aristocrats against whom there was no direct proof. I
trust that you will state all this exactly, because the Journal des Révolutions is the compass
of public opinion."]

[Footnote 3159: Prudhomme, "Crimes de la Révolution," IV. 123. According to the statements
of Théophile Mandar, vice-president of a section, witness and actor in the scene; he authorizes
Prudhomme to mention his name.----Afterwards, in the next room, Mandar proposes to Pétion and
Robespierre to attend the Assembly the next day and protest against the massacre; if necessary,
the Assembly may appoint a director for one day. "Take care not to do that," replied Robespierre;
"Brissot would be the dictator."--Pétion says nothing. "The ministers were in perfect agreement
to let the massacres continue."]

[Footnote 3160: Madame Roland, II. 37.--"Angers et le départment de Maine-et-Loire de 1787
à 1830," by Blordier Langlois. Appended to the circular was a printed address bearing the title
of Compte rendu au peuple souverain, "countersigned by the Minister of Justice and with the
Minister's seal on the package," and addressed to the Jacobin Clubs of the departments, that
they, too, might preach massacre.]

[Footnote 3161: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 391, 398.--Warned by Alquier, president of the criminal
court of Versailles, of the danger to which the Orleans prisoners were exposed, Danton replied:
"What is that to you? That affair does not concern you. Mind your own business, and do not
meddle with things outside of it!"--"But, Monsieur, the law says that prisoners must be protected."--"What
do you care? Some among them are great criminals, and nobody knows yet how the people will
regard them and how far their indignation will carry them." Alquier wished to pursue the matter,
but Danton turned his back on him]

[Footnote 3162: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 217]

[Footnote 3163: Madame Roland, "Lettres autographes, etc.," Sept. 5, 1792. "We are here under
the knives of Marat and Robespierre. These fellows are striving to excite the people and turn
them against the National Assembly and the council. They have organized a Star Chamber and
they have a small army under pay, aided by what they found or stole in the palace and elsewhere,
or by supplies purchased by Danton, who is underhandedly the chieftain of this horde."--Dusaulx,
"Mémoires," 441. "On the following day (Sept. 3) I went to see one of the most estimated personalities
at this epoch. 'You know,' said I to him, 'what is going on?'--'Very well; but keep quiet;
it will soon be over. A little more blood is still necessary.'--I saw others who explained
themselves much more definitely. "--Mortimer-Ternaux, II. X.]

[Footnote 3166: Prudhomme, "Les Révolutions de Paris" (number for Sept. 22). At one of the
last sessions of the commune "M. Panis spoke of Marat as of a prophet, another Siméon Stylite.
'Marat,' said he, 'remained six weeks sitting on one thigh in a dungeon.' "--Barbaroux, 64.]

[Footnote 3167: Weber, II. 348. Collot dwells at length, "in cool-blooded gaiety," on the murder
of Madame de Lamballe and on the abominations to which her corpse was subjected. "He added,
with a sigh of regret, that if he had been consulted he would have had the head of Madame de
Lamballe served in a covered dish for the queen's supper."]

[Footnote 3168: On the part played by Robespierre and his presence constantly at the Commune
see Granier de Cassagnac, II. 55.--Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 205. Speech by Robespierre at the
commune, Sept. 1: "No one dares name the traitors. Well, I give their names for the safety
of the people: I denounce the libertycide Brissot, the Girondist factionists, the rascally
commission of the Twenty-One in the National Assembly; I denounce them for having sold France
to Brunswick, and for having taken in advance the reward for their dastardly act." On the 2nd
of September he repeats his denunciation, and consequently on that day warrants are issued
by the committee of supervision against thirty deputies and against Brissot and Roland (Mortimer-Ternaux,
III. 216, 247).]

[Footnote 3169: "Procès-verbaux de la Commune," Aug. 30.--Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 217 (resolutions
of the sections Poissonnière and Luxembourg).--Granier de Cassagnac, II. 104 (adhesion of the
sections Mauconseil, Louvre, and Quinze-Vingt).]

[Footnote 3170: Granier de Cassagnac, II. 156.]

[Footnote 3171: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 265.--Granier de Cassagnac, XII. 402. (The other five
judges were also members of the commune.)]

[Footnote 3172: Granier de Cassagnac, II. 313. Register of the General Assembly of the sans-culottes,
section, Sept. 2.--"Mémoires sur les journées de Septembre," 151 (declaration of Jourdan).]

[Footnote 3173: "Mémoires sur les journées de Septembre," narrative of Abbé Sicard, 111.]

[Footnote 3174: Buchez et Roux, XVIII. 109, 178. ("La vérite tout entière," by Méhée, Jr.)--Narrative
of Abbé Sicard, 132, 134.]

[Footnote 3175: Granier de Cassagnac, II. 92, 93.--On the presence and complicity of Santerre.
Ibid, 89-99.]

[Footnote 3176: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 277 and 299 (Sept. 3).--Granier de Cassagnac, II. 257.
A commissary of the section of the Quatre-Nations states in his report that "the section authorized
them to pay expenses out of the affair."--Declaration of Jourdan, 151.--Lavalette, "Mémoires,"
I. 91. The initiative of the commune is further proved by the following detail: "Towards five
o'clock (Sept. 2) city officials on horseback, carrying a flag, rode through the streets crying:
'To arms! To arms!' They added: 'The enemy is coming; you are all lost; the city will be burnt
and given up to pillage. Have no fear of the traitors or conspirators behind your backs. They
are in the hands of the patriots, and before you leave the thunderbolt of national justice
will fall on them!"--Buchez et Roux, XXVIII. 105. Letter of Chevalier Saint-Dizier, member
of the first committee of supervision, Sept. 10. "Marat, Duplain, Fréron, etc., generally do
no more in their supervision of things than wreak private vengeance... Marat states openly
that 40,000 heads must still be knocked off to ensure the success of the revolution."]

[Footnote 3177: Buchez et Roux, XVIII. 146. "Ma Résurrection," by Mathon de la Varenne. "The
evening before half-intoxicated women said publicly on the Feuillants terrace: 'To-morrow is
the day when their souls will be turned inside out in the prisons."]

[Footnote 3178: "Mémoires sur les journées de Septembre. Mon agonie," by Journiac de Saint-Méard.--Madame
de la Fausse-Landry, 72. The 29th of August she obtained permission to join her uncle in prison:
"M. Sergent and others told me that I was acting imprudently; that the prisons were not safe."]

[Footnote 3179: Granier de Cassagnac,--II. 27. According to Roch Marcandier their number "did
not exceed 300." According to Louvet there were "200, and perhaps not that number." According
to Brissot, the massacres were committed by about "a hundred unknown brigands."--Pétion, at
La Force (Ibid., 75), on September 6, finds only about a dozen executioners. According to Madame
Roland (II. 35), "there were not fifteen at the Abbaye." Lavalette the first day finds only
about fifty killers at the La Force prison.]

[Footnote 3180: Mathon de la Varenne, ibid., 137.]

[Footnote 3181: Buchez et Roux, XVII. 183 (session of the Jacobin Club, Aug. 27). Speech by
a federate from Tarn.--Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 126.]

[Footnote 3182: Sicard, 80.--Méhée, 187.--Weber, II. "About 2 o'clock in the morning (Sept.
3) I heard a troop of cannibals passing under my window, none of whom appeared to have the
Parisian accent; they were all strangers."]

[Footnote 3183: Granier de Cassagnac, II. 164, 502.--Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 530.--Maillard's
assessors at the Abbaye were a watchmaker living in the Rue Childebert, a fruit-dealer in the
Rue Mazarine, a keeper of a public house in the Rue du Four-Saint-Germain, a journeyman hatter
in the Rue Sainte-Marguerite, and two others whose occupation is not mentioned.--On the composition
of the tribunal at La Force, Cf. Journiac de Saint-Méard, 120, and Weber, II. 261.]

[Footnote 3184: Granier de Cassagnac, II. 507 (on Damiens), 513 (on L'empereur).--Meillan,
388 (on Laforet and his wife, old-clothes dealers on the Quai du Louvre, who on the 31st of
May prepare for a second blow, and calculate this time on having for their share the pillaging
of fifty houses).]

[Footnote 3185: Sicard, 98]

[Footnote 3186: De Ferrières (Ed. Berville et Barrière), III. 486.--Rétif de la Bretonne, 381.
At the end of the Rue des Ballets a prisoner had just been killed, while the next one slipped
through the railing and escaped. "A man not belonging to the butchers, but one of those thoughtless
machines of which there are so many, interposed his pike and stopped him... The poor fellow
was arrested by his pursuers and massacred. The pikeman coolly said to us: 'I couldn't know
they wanted to kill him.'"]

[Footnote 3187: Granier de Cassagnac, II. 511.]

[Footnote 3188: The judges and slaughterers at the Abbaye, discovered in the trial of the year
IV., almost all lived in the neighborhood, in the rues Dauphine, de Nevers, Guégénaud, de Bussy,
Childebert, Taranne, de l'Egoût, du Vieux Colombier, de l'Echaudé-Saint-Benoit, du Four-Saint-Germain,
etc.]

[Footnote 3189: Sicard, 86, 87, 101.--Jourdan, 123. "The president of the committee of supervision
replied to me that these were very honest persons; that on the previous evening or the evening
before that, one of them, in a shirt and wooden shoes, presented himself before their committee
all covered with blood, bringing with him in his hat twenty-five louis in gold, which he had
found on the person of a man he had killed."--Another instance of probity may be found in the
"Procès-verbaux du conseil-général de la Commune de Versailles," 367, 371.--On the following
day, Sept. 3, robberies commence and go on increasing.]

[Footnote 3190: Méhée, 179. "'Would you believe that I have earned only twenty-four francs?'
said a baker's boy armed with a club. 'I killed more than forty for my share.'"]

[Footnote 3191: Granier de Cassagnac. II. 153.--Cf. Ibid., 202-209, details on the meals of
the workmen and on the more delicate repast of Maillard and his assistants.]

[Footnote 3192: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 175-176.--Granier de Cassagnac. II. 84.----Jourdan,
222.--Méhée, 179. "At midnight they came back swearing, cursing, and foaming with rage, threatening
to cut the throats of the committee in a body if they were not instantly paid."]

[Footnote 3193: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 320. Speech by Pétion on the charges preferred against
Robespierre.]

[Footnote 3194: Mathon de la Varenne, 156.--Journiac de Saint-Méard, 129.--Moore, 267.]

[Footnote 3195: Journiac de Saint-Méard, 115.]

[Footnote 3196: Weber, II. 265.--Journiac de Saint-Méard, 129.--Mathon de la Varenne, 155.]

[Footnote 3197: Moore, 267.--Cf. Malouet, II. 240. Malouet, on the evening of Sept. 1, was
at his sister-in-law's; there is a domiciliary visit at midnight; she faints on hearing the
patrol mount the stairs. "I begged them not to enter the drawing-room, so as not to disturb
the poor sufferer. The sight of a woman in a swoon and pleasing in appearance affected them,
and they at once withdrew, leaving me alone with her."--Beaulieu, "Essais," I. 108. (Regarding
the two Abbaye butchers he meets in the house of Journiac-de-Saint-Méard, and who chat with
him while issuing him with a safe-conduct): "What struck me was to detect generous sentiments
through their ferocity, those of men determined to protect any one whose cause they adopted."]

[Footnote 3198: Weber, II. 265, 348.]

[Footnote 3199: Sicard, 101. Billaud-Varennes, addressing the slaughterers.--Ibid.75. "Greater
power," replied a member of the committee of supervision, "what are you thinking of? To give
you greater power would be limiting those you have already. Have you forgotten that you are
sovereigns? That the sovereignty of the people is confided to you, and that you are now in
full exercise of it?"]

[Footnote 31100: Méhée, 171.]

[Footnote 31101: Sicard, 81. At the beginning the Marseilles men themselves were averse to
striking the disarmed, and exclaimed to the crowd: "Here, take our swords and pikes and kill
the monsters!"]

[Footnote 31102: Macbeth by Shakespeare: "I have supped full with horrors."]

[Footnote 31103: Observe children drowning a dog or killing a snake. Tenacity of life irritates
them, as if it were a rebellion against their despotism, the effect of which is to render them
only the more violent against their victim.]

[Footnote 31104: One may recall to mind the effect of bull-fights, also the irresistible fascination
which Saint-Augustin experienced on first hearing the death-cry of a gladiator in the amphitheater.]

[Footnote 31105: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 131. Trial of the September actors; the judge's summing
up. "The third and forty-sixth witnesses stated that they saw Monneuse (member of the commune)
go to and come from la Force, express his delight at those sad events that had just occurred,
acting very immorally in relation thereto, adding that there was violin playing in his presence,
and that his colleague danced."--Sicard, 88.]

[Footnote 31106: Sicard, 87, 91. This expression by a wine-merchant, who wants the custom of
the murderers.--Granier de Cassagnac, II. 197-200. The original bills for wine, straw, and
lights have been found.]

[Footnote 31107: Sicard, 91.--Maton de la Varenne, 150.]

[Footnote 31108: Mathon de la Varenne, 154. "She screamed horribly, whilst the brigands amused
themselves with their disgraceful acts. Her body even after death was not exempt. These people
had heard that she had been beautiful."]

[Footnote 31110: Prudhomme, "Les Révolutions de Paris," number for Sept. 8, 1792. "The people
subjected the flower-girl of the Palais-Royal to the law of retaliation."--Granier de Cassagnac,
II. 329. According to the bulletin of the revolutionary tribunal, number for Sept. 3.--Mortimer-Ternaux,
III. 291. Deposition of the caretaker's office of the Conciergerie prison.--Buchez et Roux,
XVII.198. "Histoire des hommes de proi," by Roch Marcandier.]

[Footnote 31111: Mortimer-Ternaux III, 257. Trial of the September murderers; deposition of
Roussel.--Ib., 628.]

[Footnote 31112: Deposition of the woman Millet, ibid., 63.--Weber, II. He addresses the bystanders
in favor of the prisoners, and, affected by his words, they hold out their hands to him. "But
before this the executioners had struck me on the cheeks with the points of their pikes, from
which hung pieces of flesh. Others wanted to cut off my head, which would have been done if
two gendarmes had not kept them back."]

[Footnote 31115: Jourdan, 219.]

[Footnote 31116: Méhée, 179.]

[Footnote 31117: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 558. The same idea is found among the federates and
Parisians composing the company of the Egalité, which brought the Orleans prisoners to Versailles
and then murdered them. They explain their conduct by saying that they "hoped to put an end
to the excessive expenditure to which the French empire was subject through the prolonged detention
of conspirators."]

[Footnote 31118: Rétif de la Bretonne, 388.]

[Footnote 31119: Méhée, 177.]

[Footnote 31120: Prudhomme, "Les Crimes de la Révolution." III. 272.]

[Footnote 31121: Rétif de la Bretonne, 388. There were two sorts of women at the Salpétrière,
those who were banded and young girls brought in the prison. Hence the two alternatives.]

[Footnote 31122: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 295. (ROBERT LAFONT, PARIS 1998) advises us that the
number of victims killed with "cold steel and clubs" etc total 1395 persons. The total number
of French victims due to the Revolution is considered to be between 600,000 and 800,000 dead. (SR)]

[Footnote 31126: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 399, 592, 602-606.--"Procès-verbal des 8, 9, 10 Septembre,
extrait des registres de la municipalité de Versailles." (In the "Mémoires sur les journées
de Septembre"), p. 358 and following pages.--Granier de Cassagnac, II. 483. Bonnet's exploit
at Orleans, pointed out to Fournier, Sept. I. Fournier replies: "In God's name, I am not to
be ordered; when the bloody beggars have had their heads cut off the trial may be held later!"]

[Footnote 31127: Roch Marcandier, 210. Speech by Lazowski to the section of Finistère, fauborg
Saint-Marceau. Lazowski had, in addition, set free the assassins of the mayor of Etampes, and
laid their manacles on the bureau table.]

[Footnote 31128: Malouet, II. 243 (Sept. 2).--Moniteur, XIII. 48 (session of Sept. 27, 1792).
We see in the speech of Panis that analogous scenes took place in the committee of supervision.
"Imagine our situation. We were surrounded by citizens irritated against the treachery of the
court. We were told: 'Here is an aristocrat who is going to fly; you must stop him, or your
yourselves are traitors!' Pistols were pointed at us and we found ourselves obliged to sign
warrants, not so much for our own safety as for that of the persons denounced."]

[Footnote 31129: Granier de Cassagnac, II. 631.--De Ferrière, III. 391.--(The expression quoted
was recorded by Rétif de la Bretonne.)]

[Footnote 31130: That is how to do it, must any anarchist or hopeful revolutionary have thought,
upon reading Taine's livid description.-But also: "Do not let the bourgeois read this, it might
scare them and make our task more difficult." (SR).]

[Footnote 31131: Moniteur, XIII. 698, 698 (numbers for Sept. 15 and 16). Ibid., Letter of Roland,
701; of Pétion, 711.--Buchez et Roux, XVIII. 33. 34.--Prudhomme's journal contains an engraving
of this subject (Sept. 14)--"An Englishman admitted to the bar of the house denounces to the
National Assembly a robbery committed in a house occupied by him at Chaillot by two bailiffs
and their satellites. The robbery consisted of twelve louis, five guineas, five thousand pounds
in assignats, and several other objects." The courts before which he appeared did not dare
take up his case (Buchez et Roux, XVII. P. 1, Sept. 18).]

[Footnote 31132: Buchez et Roux, XVII. 711 (session of Sept. 16). Letter of Roland to the National
Assembly.--Buchez et Roux, XVIII. 42.--Moniteur, XIII. 731 (session of Sept. 17). Speech by
Pétion: "Yesterday there was some talk of again visiting the prisons, and particularly the
Conciergerie."]

[Footnote 31134: Perhaps Mao read this and later coined his famous slogan "that all political
power emanates from the barrels of guns." (SR).]

[Footnote 31135: "Archives Nationales," II. 58 to 76. Official reports of the Paris electoral
assembly.--Robespierre is elected the twelfth (Sept. 5), then Danton and Collot d'Herbois (Sept.
6) then Manuel and Billaud-Varennes (Sept. 7), next C. Desmoulins (Sept. 8), Marat (Sept. 9)
etc.--Mortimer-Ternaux, IV. 35 (act passed by the commune at the instigation of Robespierre
for the regulation of electoral operations).--Louvet, "Mémoires." Louvet, in the electoral
assembly asks to be heard on the candidacy of Marat, but is unsuccessful. "On going out I was
surrounded by those men with big clubs and sabers by whom the future dictator was always attended,
Robespierre's body-guard. They threatened me and told me in very concise terms: 'Before long
you shall have your turn. This is the freedom of that assembly in which one declared his vote
under a dagger pointed at him."']

[Footnote 31136: In reading this all socialist and communists and other potential manipulators
of democracy would have taken and will continue to take note. Once the hidden combination can
manage to invest all the different, in theory opponent, parties with their own men, an eternal
control by a hidden mafia can now take place. (SR).]

[Footnote 31137: Such procedures set a precedence for 200 years of 'guided democracy' in many
trade unions and elsewhere. (SR).]

CHAPTER II. THE DEPARTMENTS.--THE EPEDEMIC AND CONTAGIOUS CHARACTER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY DISEASE.

In the departments, it is by hundreds that we enumerate days like the 20th of June, August
10, September 2. The body has its epidemic, its contagious diseases; the mind has the same;
the revolutionary malady is one of them. It appears throughout the country at the same time;
each infected point infects others. In each city, in each borough, the club is a Center of
inflammation which disorganizes the sound parts; and the example of each disorganized Center
spreads afar like contagious fumes.[3201] Everywhere the same fever, delirium, and convulsions
mark the presence of the same virus. That virus is the Jacobin dogma. By virtue of the Jacobin
dogma, theft, usurpation, murder, take on the guise of political philosophy, and the gravest
crimes against persons, against public or private property, become legitimate; for they are
the acts of the legitimate supreme power, the power that has the public welfare in its keeping.

I. The Sovereignty of the People.

     Its principle is the Jacobin dogma of the sovereignty of the
     people.----The new right is officially proclaimed.--Public
     statement of the new régime.--Its object, its opponents, its
     methods.--Its extension from Paris to the provinces.

That each Jacobin band should be invested with the local dictatorship in its own canton is,
according to the Jacobins, a natural right. It becomes the written law from the day that the
National Assembly declares the country in danger. "From that date," says their most widely
read Journal,[3202] and by the mere fact of that declaration, "the people of France are assembled
and insurgent. They have repossessed themselves of the sovereign power." Their magistrates,
their deputies, all constituted authorities, return to nothingness, their essential state.
And you, temporary and revocable representatives, "you are nothing but presiding officers for
the people; you have nothing to do but to collect their votes, and to announce the result when
these shall have been cast with due solemnity."--Nor is this the theory of the Jacobins only;
it is also official theory. The National Assembly approves of the insurrection, recognizes
the Commune, keeps in the background, abdicates as far as possible, and only remains provisionally
in office in order that the place may not be left vacant. It abstains from exercising power,
even to provide its own successors; it merely "invites" the French people to organize a national
convention; it confesses that it has "no right to put the exercise of sovereign power under
binding rules"; it does no more than "indicate to citizens" the rules for the elections "to
which it invites them to conform." Meanwhile it is subject to the will of the sovereign people,
then so-called; it dares not resist their crimes; it interferes with assassins only by entreaties.--Much
more; it authorizes them, either by ministerial signature or counter-signature, to begin their
work elsewhere. Roland has signed Fournier's commission to Orleans; Danton has sent the circular
of Marat over all France. To reconstruct the departments the council of ministers sends the
most infuriated members of the Commune and the party, Chaumette, Fréron, Westerman, Auduoin,
Huguenin, Momoro, Couthon, Billaud-Varennes,[3204] and others still more tainted and brutal,
who preach the purest Jacobin doctrine. "They announce openly[3205] that laws no longer exist;
that since the people are sovereign, every one is master; that each fraction of the nation
can take such measures as suit it, in the name of the country's safety; that they have the
right to tax corn, to seize it in the laborer's fields, to cut off the heads of the farmers
who refuse to bring their grain to market." At Lisieux, agrarian law is preached by Fufour
and Momoro. At Douai, other preachers from Paris say to the popular club, "Prepare scaffolds;
let the walls of the city bristle with gallows, and hang upon them every man who does not accept
our opinions."--Nothing is more logical, more in conformity with their principles. The journals,
deducing their consequences, explain to the people the use they ought to make of their reconquered
sovereignty.[3206] "Under the present circumstances, community of property is the law; everything
belongs to everybody." Besides, "an equalizing of fortunes must be brought about, a leveling,
which shall abolish the vicious principle of the domination of the rich over the poor." This
reform is all the more pressing because "the people, the real sovereign people, have nearly
as many enemies as there are proprietors, large merchants, financiers, and wealthy men. In
a time of revolution, we must regard all men who have more than enough as the enemies, secret
or avowed, of popular government." Therefore, "let the people of each commune, before they
quit their homes" for the army, "put all those who are suspected of not loving liberty in a
secure place, and under the safe-keeping of the law; let them be kept shut up until war is
over; let them be guarded with pikes," and let each one of their guardians receive thirty sous
per day.

* As for the partisans of the fallen government, the members of the Paris directory, "with
Roederer and Blondel at their head,"

* as for the general officers, "with Lafayette and d'Affry at their head,"

* as for "the critical deputies of the Constituent Assembly, with Barnave and Lameth at their
head,"

* as for the Feuillant deputies of the Legislative Assembly, "with Ramond and Jaucourt at their
head,"[3207]

* as for "all those who consented to soil their hands with the profits of the civil list,"

* as for "the 40,000 hired assassins who were gathered at the palace on the night of August 9-10,

they are all (say the Jacobins) furious monsters, who ought to be strangled to the last one.
People! you have risen to your feet; stand firm until not one of these conspirators remains
alive. Your humanity requires you for once to show yourselves inexorable. Strike terror to
the wicked. The proscriptions which we impose on you as a duty, are the sacred wrath of your
country."

There is no mistaking this; it is a tocsin sounding against all the powers that be, against
all social superiority, against priests and nobles, proprietors, capitalists, the leaders of
business and industry; it is sounding, in short, against the whole élite of France, whether
of old or recent origin. The Jacobins of Paris, by their journals, their examples, their missionaries,
give the signal; and in the provinces their kindred spirits, imbued with the same principles,
only wait the summons to hurl themselves forward.

II.--In several departments it establishes itself in advance.

     An instance of this in the Var.

In many departments[3208] they have forestalled the summons. In the Var, for example, pillages
and proscriptions have begun with the month of May. According to custom, they first seize upon
the castles and the monasteries, although these have become national property, at one time
alleging as a reason for this that the administration "is too slow in carrying out sentence
against the émigrés," and again, that "the château, standing on an eminence, weighs upon the
inhabitants."[3209] There is scarcely a village in France that does not contain twoscore wretches
who are always ready to line their pockets, which is just the number of thieves who thoroughly
sacked the château of Montaroux, carrying off "furniture, produce, clothing, even the jugs
and bottles in the cellar." There are the same doings by the same band at the chateau of Tournon;
the château of Salerne is burned, that of Flagose is pulled down; the canal of Cabris is destroyed;
then the convent of Montrieux, the châteaux of Grasse, of Canet, of Régusse, of Brovaz, and
many others, all devastated, and the devastations are made "daily."--It is impossible to suppress
this country brigandage. The reigning dogma, weakening authority in the magistrates' hands,
and the clubs, "which cover the department," have spread the fermentation of anarchy everywhere.
"Administrators, judges, municipal officers, all who are invested with any authority, and who
have the courage to use it in forcing respect for law, are one by one denounced by public opinion
as enemies of the constitution and of liberty; because, people say, they talk of nothing but
the law, as if they did not know that the will of the people makes the law, and that we are
the people."[3210] This is the real principle; here, as at Paris, it instantly begets its consequences.
"In many of these clubs nothing is discussed but the plundering of estates and cutting off
the heads of aristocrats. And who are designated by this infamous title? In the cities, the
great traders and rich proprietors; in the country, those whom we call the bourgeois; everywhere,
all peaceable citizens, the friends of order, who wish to enjoy, under the shadow of the protecting
law, the blessings of the Constitution. Such was the rage of their denunciations that in one
of these clubs a good and brave peasant was denounced as an aristocrat; the whole of his aristocracy
consisting in his having said to those who plundered the château of their seigneur, already
mentioned, that they would not enjoy in peace the fruits of their crime."--Here is the Jacobin
programme of Paris in advance, namely, the division of the French into two classes, the spoliation
of one, the despotism of the other; the destruction of the well-to-do, orderly and honest under
the dictation of those who are not so.

Here, as in Paris, the programme is carried out step by step. At Beausset, near Toulon, a man
named Vidal, captain of the National Guard, "twice set at liberty by virtue of two consecutive
amnesties,"[3211] punishes not resistance merely, but even murmurs, with death. Two old men,
one of them a notary, the other a turner, having complained of him to the public prosecutor,
the general alarm is beaten, a gathering of armed men is formed in the street, and the complainants
are clubbed, riddled with balls, and their bodies thrown into a pit. Many of their friends
are wounded, others take to flight; seven houses are sacked, and the municipality, "either
overawed or in complicity," makes no interference until all is over. There is no way of pursuing
the guilty ones; the foreman of the jury, who goes, escorted by a thousand men, to hold an
inquest, can get no testimony. The municipal officers feign to have heard nothing, neither
the general alarm nor the guns fired under their windows. The other witnesses say not a word;
but they declare, sotto voce, the reason for their silence. If they should testify, "they would
be sure of being killed as soon as the troops should have gone away." The foreman of the jury
is himself menaced; after remaining three-quarters of an hour, he finds it prudent to leave
the city.--After this the clubs of Beausset and of the neighborhood, gaining hardihood from
the impotence of the law, break out into incendiary propositions: "It is announced that after
the troops retreat, nineteen houses more will be sacked; it is proposed to behead all aristocrats,
that is to say, all the land-owners in the country." Many have fled, but their flight does
not satisfy the clubs. Vidal orders those of Beausset who took refuge in Toulon to return at
once; otherwise their houses will be demolished, and that very day, in fact, by way of warning,
several houses in Beausset, among them that of a notary, are either pulled down or pillaged
from top to bottom; all the riff-raff of the town are at work, "half-drunken men and women,"
and, as their object is to rob and drink, they would like to begin again in the principal town
of the canton.--The club, accordingly, has declared that "Toulon would soon see a new St. Bartholomew";
it has allies there, and arrangements are made; each club in the small towns of the vicinity
will furnish men, while all will march under the leadership of the Toulon club. At Toulon,
as at Beausset, the municipality will let things take their course, while the proceedings complained
of by the public prosecutor and the district and department administrators will be applied
to them. They may send reports to Paris, and denounce patriots to the National Assembly and
the King, if they choose; the club will reply to their scribbling with acts. Their turn is
coming. Lanterns and sabers are also found at Toulon, and the faction murders them because
they have lodged complaints against the murderers.

III.--Each Jacobin band a dictator in its own neighborhood.

     Saint-Afrique during the interregnum.

By what it dared to do when the government still stood on its feet we may we may imagine what
it will do during the interregnum. Facts, then, as always, furnish the best picture, and, to
obtain a knowledge of the new sovereign, we must first observe him on a limited stage.

On the reception of the news of the 10th of August, the Jacobins of Saint-Afrique, a small
town of the Aveyron,[3212] likewise undertook to save the country, and, to this end, like their
fellows in other boroughs of the district, they organized themselves into an "Executive Power."
This institution is of an old date, especially in the South; it had flourished for eighteen
months from Lyons to Montpellier, from Agen to Nîmes; but after the interregnum, its condition
is still more flourishing; it consists of a secret society, the object of which is to carry
out practically the motions and instructions of the club.[3213] Ordinarily, they work at night,
wearing masks or slouched hats, with long hair falling over the face. A list of their names,
each with a number opposite to it, is kept at the meeting-place of the society. A triangular
club, decked with a red ribbon, serves them both as weapon and badge; with this club, each
member "may go anywhere," and do what seems good to him. At Saint-Afrique they number about
eighty, among whom must be counted the rascals forming the seventh company of Tarn, staying
in the town; their enrollment in the band is effected by constantly "preaching pillage to them,"
and by assuring them that the contents of the châteaux in the vicinity belong to them.[3214]--Not
that the châteaux excite any fear; most of them are empty; neither in Saint-Afrique nor in
the environs do the men of the ancient régime form a party; for many months orthodox priests
and the nobles have had to fly, and now the well-to-do people are escaping. The population,
however, is Catholic; many of the shop-keepers, artisans, and farmers are discontented, and
the object now is to make these laggards keep step.--In the first place, they order women of
every condition, work-girls and servants, to attend mass performed by the sworn curé, for,
if they do not, they will be made acquainted with the cudgel.--In the second place, all the
suspected are disarmed; they enter their houses during the night in force, unexpectedly, and,
besides their gun, carry off their provisions and money. A certain grocer who persists in his
lukewarmness is visited a second time; seven or eight men, one evening, break open his door
with a stick of timber; he takes refuge on his roof, dares not descend until the following
day at dawn, and finds that everything in his store has been either stolen or broken to pieces.[3215]
In the third place, there is "punishment of the ill-disposed." At nine o'clock in the evening
a squad knocks at the door of a distrusted shoemaker; it is opened by his apprentice; six of
the ruffians enter, and one of them, showing a paper, says to the poor fellow:

"I come on the part of the Executive Power, by which you are condemned to a beating."

"What for?"

"If you have not done anything wrong, you are thinking about it."[3216]

And so they beat him in the presence of his family. Many others like him are seized and unmercifully
beaten on their own premises.--As to the expenses of the operation, these must be defrayed
by the malevolent. These, therefore, are taxed according to their occupations; this or that
tanner or dealer in cattle has to pay 36 francs; another, a hatter, 72 francs; otherwise "they
will be attended to that very night at nine o'clock." Nobody is exempt, if he is not one of
the band. Poor old men who have nothing but a five-franc assignat are compelled to give that;
they take from the wife of an unskilled laborer, whose savings consist of seven sous and a
half, the whole of this, exclaiming, "that is good for three mugs of wine."[3217] When money
is not to be had, they take goods in kind; they make short work of cellars, bee-hives, clothes-presses,
and poultry-yards. They eat, drink, and break, giving themselves up to it heartily, not only
in the town, but in the neighboring villages. One detachment goes to Brusque, and proceeds
so vigorously that the mayor and syndic-attorney scamper off across the fields, and dare not
return for a couple of days.[3218] At Versol, the dwelling of the sworn curé, and at Lapeyre,
that of the sworn vicar, are both sacked; the money is stolen and the casks are emptied. In
the house of the curé of Douyre, "furniture, clothes, cabinets, and window-sashes are destroyed";
they feast on his wine and the contents of his cupboard, throw away what they could not consume,
then go in search of the curé and his brother, a former Carthusian, shouting that "their heads
must be cut off; and sausage-meat made of the rest of their bodies!" Some of them, a little
shrewder than the others, light on a prize; for example, a certain Bourguière, a trooper of
the line, seized a vineyard belonging to an old lady, the widow of a physician and former mayor;[3219]
he gathered in its crop, "publicly in broad daylight," for his own benefit, and warns the proprietress
that he will kill her if she makes a complaint against him, and, as she probably does complain
of him, he obliges her, in the name of the Executive Power, to pay him fifty crowns damages.--As
to the common Jacobin gangsters, their reward, besides food and drink, is perfect licentiousness.
In all houses invaded at eleven o'clock in the evening. Whilst the father flies, or the husband
screams under the cudgel, one of the villains stations himself at the entrance with a drawn
saber in his hands, and the wife or daughter remains at the mercy of the others; they seize
her by the neck and maintain their hold.[3220] In vain does she scream for help. "Nobody in
Saint-Afrique dares go outdoors at night"; nobody comes, and, the following day, the juge-de-paix
dares not receive the complaint, because "he is afraid himself."--Accordingly, on the 23rd
of September, the municipal officers and the town-clerk, who made their rounds, were nearly
beaten to death with clubs and stones; on the 10th of October another municipal officer was
left for dead; a fortnight before this, a lieutenant of volunteers, M. Mazières, "trying to
do his duty, was assassinated in his bed by his own men." Naturally, nobody dares whisper a
word, and, after two months of this order of things, it may be presumed that at the municipal
elections of the 21st of October, the electors will be docile. In any event, as a precaution,
their notification eight days before, according to law, is dispensed with; as extra precaution,
they are informed that if they do not vote for the Executive Power, they will have to do with
the triangular cudgel.[3221] Consequently, most of them abstain; in a town of over 600 active
citizens, 40 votes give a majority; Bourgougnon and Sarrus, the two chiefs of the Executive
Power, are elected, one mayor, and the other syndic-attorney, and henceforth the authority
they seized by force is conferred on them by the law.

IV.--Ordinary practices of the Jacobin dictatorship.

     The stationary companies of the clubs.--Their personnel.
     --Their leaders.

This is roughly the type of government which spring up in every commune of France after the
10th of August; the club reigns, but the form and processes of its dictatorship are different,
according to circumstances.--Sometimes it operates directly through an executive gang or by
lancing an excited mob; sometimes it operates indirectly through the electoral assembly it
has had elected, or through the municipality, which is its accomplice. If the administrations
are Jacobin, it governs through them. If they are passive, it governs alongside of them. If
they are refractory, it purges them,[3222] or breaks them up,[3223] and, to put them down,
it resorts not only to blows, but even to murder[3224] and massacre.[3225] Between massacre
and threats, all intermediaries meet, the revolutionary seal being everywhere impressed with
inequalities of relief.

In many places, threats suffice. In regions where the temperament of the people is cool, and
where there is no resistance, it is pointless to resort to assault and battery. What is the
use is killing in a town like Arras, for instance, where, on the day of the civic oath, the
president of the department, a prudent millionaire, stalks through the streets arm in arm with
Aunty Duchesne, who sells cookies down in a cellar, where, on election days, the townspeople,
through cowardice, elect the club candidates under the pretense that "rascals and beggars"
must be sent off to Paris to purge the town of them![3226] It would be labor lost to strike
people who grovel so well.[3227] The faction is content to mark them as mangy curs, to put
them in pens, keep them on a leash, and to annoy them.[3228] It posts at the entrance of the
guard-room a list of inhabitants related to an émigré; it makes domiciliary visits; it draws
up a fancied list of the suspected, on which list all that are rich are found inscribed. It
insults and disarms them; it confines them to the town; it forbids them to go outside of it
even on foot; it orders them to present themselves daily before its committee of public safety;
it condemns them to pay their taxes for a year in twenty-four hours; it breaks the seals of
their letters; it confiscates, demolishes, and sells their family tombs in the cemeteries.
This is all in order, as is the religious persecution,

* with the irruption into private chapels where mass is said,

* with blows with gun-stocks and the fist bestowed on the officiating priest,

* with the obligation of orthodox parents to have their children baptized by the schismatic curé,

* with the expulsion of nuns, and

* with the pursuit, imprisonment and transportation of unsworn ecclesiastics.

But if the domination of the club is not always a bloody one, the judgments are always those
of an armed man, who, putting his gun to his shoulder, aims at the wayfarers whom he has stopped
on the road. Generally they kneel down, tender their purses, and the shot is not fired. But
the gun is cocked, nevertheless, and, to be certain of this, we have only to look at the shriveled
hand grasping the trigger. We are reminded of those swarms of banditti which infested the country
under the ancient regime;[3229] the double-girdle of smugglers and receivers embraced within
twelve hundred leagues of internal excise-duties, the poachers abounding on the four hundred
leagues of guarded captaincies, the deserters so numerous that in eight years they amounted
to sixty thousand, the beggars with which the prisons overflowed, the thousands of thieves
and vagabonds thronging the highways, quarry of the police which the Revolution let loose and
armed, and which, in its turn, from being prey, became the hunters of game. For three years
these strong-armed prowlers have served as the hard-core of local jacqueries; at the present
time they form the staff of the universal jacquerie. At Nîmes,[3230] the head of the Executive
Power is a "dancing-master." The two leading demagogues of Toulouse are a shoemaker, and an
actor who plays valets.[3231] At Toulon,[3232] the club, more absolute than any Asiatic despot,
is recruited from among the destitute, sailors, harbor-hands, soldiers, "stray peddlers," while
its president, Sylvestre, sent down from Paris, is a criminal of the lowest degree. At Rheims,[3233]
the principal leader is an unfrocked priest, married to a nun, aided by a baker, who, an old
soldier, came near being hung. Elsewhere,[3234] it is some deserter tried for robbery; here,
a cook or innkeeper, and there, a former lackey The oracle of Lyons is an ex-commercial traveler,
an emulator of Marat, named Châlier, whose murderous delirium is complicated with morbid mysticism.
The acolytes of Châlier are a barber, a hair-dresser, an old-clothes dealer, a mustard and
vinegar manufacturer, a cloth-dresser, a silk-worker, a gauze-maker, while the time is near
when authority is to fall into still meaner hands, those of "the dregs of the female population,"
who, aided by "a few bullies," elect "female commissaries," tax food, and for three days pillage
the warehouses.[3235] Avignon has for its masters the Glacière bandits. Arles is under the
yoke of its porters and bargemen. Marseilles belongs to "a band of wretches spawned out of
houses of debauchery, who recognize neither laws nor magistrates, and ruling the city through
terror."[3236]--It is not surprising that such men, invested with such power, use it in conformity
with their nature, and that the interregnum, which is their reign, spreads over France a circle
of devastations, robberies, and murders.

V.--The companies of traveling volunteers.

     Quality of the recruits.--Election of officers.--Robberies
     and murders.

Usually, the stationary band of club members has an auxiliary band of the same species which
roves about. I mean the volunteers, who inspire more fear and do more harm, because they march
in a body and are armed.[3237] Like their brethren in the ordinary walks of life, many of them
are town and country vagabonds; most of them, living from hand to mouth, have been attracted
by the pay of fifteen sous a day; they have become soldiers for lack of work and bread.[3238]
Each commune, moreover, having been called upon for its army contingent, "they have picked
up whatever could be found in the towns, all the scamps hanging around street-corners, men
with no pursuit, and, in the country, wretches and vagabonds of every description; nearly all
have been forced to march by money or drawing lots," and it is probable that the various administrations
thought that "in this way they would purge France."[3239] To the wretched "bought by the communes,"
add others of the same stamp, procured by the rich as substitutes for their sons.[3240] Thus
do they pick over the social dunghill and obtain at a discount the natural and predestined
inmates of houses of correction, poor-houses and hospitals, with an utter disregard of quality,
even physical, "the halt, the maimed and the blind," the deformed and the defective, "some
too old, and others too young and too feeble to support the fatigues of war, others so small
as to stand a foot lower than their guns," a large number of boys of sixteen, fourteen, and
thirteen; in short, the reprobate of great cities as we now see him, stunted, puny, and naturally
insolent and insurgent.[3241] "One-third of them are found unfit for service" on reaching the
frontier.[3242]--But, before reaching the frontier, they act like "pirates" on the road.--The
others, with sounder bodies and better hearts, become, under the discipline of constant danger,
good soldiers at the end of a year. In the mean time, however, they make no less havoc, for,
if they are less disposed to robbery, they are more fanatical. Nothing is more delicate than
the military organization, owing to the fact that it represents force, and man is always tempted
to abuse force; for any free company of soldiers to remain inoffensive in a civil community,
it must be restrained by the strongest curbs, which curbs, either within or without, were wholly
wanting with the volunteers of 1792.[3243]

Artisans, peasants, the petty bourgeois class, youthful enthusiasts stimulated by the prevailing
doctrine, they are still much more Jacobin than patriotic; the dogma of popular sovereignty,
like a heady wine, has turned their inexperienced brains; they are fully persuaded that, "destined
to contend with the enemies of the republic, is an honor which permits them to exact and to
dare all things."[3244] The least among them believes himself superior to the law, "as formerly
a Condé,[3245]" and he becomes king on a small scale, self-constituted, an autocratic justiciary
and avenger of wrongs, a supporter of patriots and the scourge of aristocrats, the disposer
of lives and property, and, without delay or formality, taking it upon himself to complete
the Revolution on the spot in every town he passes through.--He is not to be hindered in all
this by his officers. "Having created his chiefs, they are of no more account to him than any
of a man's creations usually are"; far from being obeyed, the officers are not even respected,
"and that comes from resorting to analogies without considering military talent or moral superiority."[3246]
Through the natural effects of the system of election, all grades of rank have fallen upon
demagogues and blusterers.

"The intriguers, loud-talkers, and especially the great boozers, have prevailed against the
capable."[3247]

Besides, to retain his popularity, the new officer will go to a bar and drink with his men,[3248]
and he must show himself more Jacobin than they are, from which it follows that, not content
with tolerating their excesses, he provokes them.--Hence, after March, 1792, and even before,[3249]
we see the volunteers behaving in France as in a conquered country. Sometimes they make domiciliary
visits, and break everything to pieces in the house they visit. Sometimes, they force the re-baptism
of infants by the conventionalist curé, and shoot at the traditional father. Here, of their
own accord, they make arrests; there, they join in with mutineers and stop grain-boats; elsewhere,
they force a municipality to tax bread; farther on, they burn or sack châteaux, and, if a mayor
happens to inform them that the château now belongs to the nation and not to an émigré; they
reply with "thrusts," and threaten to cut his throat.[3250] As the 10th of August draws near,
the phantom of authority, which still occasionally imposed on them, completely vanishes, and
"they risk nothing in killing" whoever displeases them.[3251] Exasperated by the perils they
are about to encounter on the frontier, they begin war in the interior. Provisionally, and
as a precaution, they slaughter probable aristocrats on the way, and treat the officers, nobles
and priests they meet on the road worse than their club allies. For, on the one hand, being
merely on the march, they are much safer from punishment than local murderers; in a week, lost
in the army, they will not be sought for in camp, and they may slay with perfect security.
On the other hand, as they are strangers and newcomers, they are not able, like local persons,
to identify a person. So on account of a name, a dress, qualifications, a coffee-house rumor,
or an appearance, however venerable and harmless a man may be, they kill him, not because they
know him, but because they do not know him.

VI.--A tour of France in the cabinet of the Minister of the Interior.

     From Carcassonne to Bordeaux.--Bordeaux to Caen.--The north
     and the east.--Châlons-sur-Marne to Lyons.--The Comtat and
     Provence.--The tone and the responses of the Jacobin
     administration.--The programme of the party.

Let us enter the cabinet of Roland, Minister of the Interior, a fortnight after the opening
of the Convention, and suppose him contemplating, some evening, in miniature, a picture of
the state of the country administered by him. His clerks have placed the correspondence of
the past few weeks on his table, arranged in proper order; his replies are noted in brief on
the margin; he has a map of France before him, and, placing his finger on the southern section,
he moves it along the great highway across the country. At every stage he recurs to the paper
file of letters, and passing innumerable reports of violence, he merely gives his attention
to the great revolutionary exploits.[3252] Madame Roland, I imagine, works with her husband,
and the couple, sitting together alone under the lamp, ponder over the doings of the ferocious
brute which they have set free in the provinces the same as in Paris.

Their eyes go first to the southern extremity of France. There,[3253] on the canal of the Deux-Mers,
at Carcassonne, the population has seized three boats loaded with grain, demanded provisions,
then a lower prices of bread, then guns and cannon from the magazine, and, lastly, the heads
of the administrators; an inspector-general has been wounded by an axe, and the syndic-attorney
of the department, M. Verdie; massacred.--The Minister follows with his eye the road from Carcassonne
to Bordeaux, and on the right and on the left he finds traces of blood. At Castres,[3254] a
report is spread that a dealer in grain was trying to raise the price, whereupon a mob gathers,
and, to save the dealer, he is placed in the guard-house. The volunteers, however, force open
the guard-house, and throw the man out of the first-story window; they then finish him off
with "blows with clubs and weights," drag his body along the street and cast it into the river.--The
evening before, at Clairac,[3255] M. Lartigue-Langa, an unsworn priest, pursued through the
street by a troop of men and women, who wanted to remove his cassock and set him on an ass,
found refuge, with great difficulty, in his country-house. They go there for him, however,
fetch him back to the public promenade, and there they kill him. A number of brave fellows
who interfered were charged with incivism, and severely handled. Repression is impossible;
the department writes to the Minister that "at this time it would be impolitic to follow the
matter up." Roland knows that by experience. The letters in his hands show him that there,
as in Paris, murder engenders murder. M. d'Alespée; a gentleman, has just been assassinated
at Nérac; "all reputable citizens formed around him a rampart with their bodies," but the rabble
prevailed, and the murderers, "through their obscurity," escaped.--The Minister's finger stops
at Bordeaux. There the federation festivities are marked with a triple assassination.[3256]
In order to let this dangerous moment pass by, M. de Langoiran, vicar-general of the archbishopric,
had retired half a league off; in the village of Cauderan, to the residence of an octogenarian
priest, who, like himself; had never meddled with public matters. On the 15th of July the National
Guards of the village, excited by the speeches of the previous night, have come to the residence
to pick them up, and moreover, a third priest belonging in the neighborhood. There is nothing
to lay to their charge; neither the municipal officers, nor the justices before whom they are
brought, can avoid declaring them innocent. As a last recourse, they are conducted to Bordeaux,
before the Directory of the department. But it is getting dark, and the riotous crowd becoming
impatient, makes an attack on them. The octogenarian "receives so many blows that he cannot
recover"; the abbé du Puy is knocked down and dragged along by a rope attached to his feet;
M. de Langoirac's head is cut off, carried about on a pike, taken to his house and presented
to the servant, who is told that "her master will not come home to supper." The torment of
the priests has lasted from five o'clock in the morning to seven o'clock in the evening, and
the municipal authorities were duly advised; but they cannot put themselves out of the way
to give succor; they are too seriously occupied in erecting a liberty-pole.

Route from Bordeaux to Caen.--The Minister's finger turns to the north, and stops at Limoges.
The day following the federation has been here celebrated the same as at Bordeaux.[3257] An
unsworn priest, the abbé Chabrol, assailed by a gang of men and women, is first conducted to
the guard-house and then to the dwelling of the juge-de-paix; for his protection a warrant
of arrest is gotten out, and he is kept under guard, in sight, by four chasseurs, in one of
the rooms. But the populace are not satisfied with this. In vain do the municipal officers
appeal to it, in vain do the gendarmes interpose themselves between it and the prisoner; it
rushes in upon them and disperses them. Meanwhile, volleys of stones smash in the windows,
and the entrance door yields to the blows of axes; about thirty of the villains scale the windows,
and pass the priest down like a bale of goods. A few yards off, "struck down with clubs and
other instruments," he draws his last breath, his head "crushed" by twenty mortal wounds.--Farther
up, towards Orleans, Roland reads the following dispatches, taken from the file for Loiret:[3258]
"Anarchy is at its height," writes one of the districts to the Directory of the department;
"there is no longer recognition of any authority; the administrators of the district and of
the municipalities are insulted, and are powerless to enforce respect.... Threats of slaughter,
of destroying houses and giving them up to pillage prevail; plans are made to tear down all
the châteaux. The municipal authorities of Achères, along with many of the inhabitants, have
gone to Oison and Chaussy, where everything is smashed, broken up and carried off On the 16th
of September six armed men went to the house of M. de Vaudeuil and obliged him to return the
sum of 300 francs, for penalties pretended to have been paid by them. We have been notified
that M. Dedeley will be visited at Achères for the same purpose to-day. M. de Lory has been
similarly threatened... Finally, all those people there say that they want no more local administrations
or tribunals, that the law is in their own hands, and they will execute it. In this extremity
we have decided on the only safe course, which is to silently accept all the outrages inflicted
upon us. We have not called upon you for protection, for we are well aware of the embarrassment
you labor under."--The best part of the National Guard, indeed, having been disarmed at the
county-town, there is no longer an armed force to put riots down. Consequently, at this same
date,[3259] the populace, increased by the afflux of "strangers" and ordinary nomads, hang
a corn-inspector, plant his head on the end of a pike, drag his body through the streets, sack
five houses and burn the furniture of a municipal officer in front of his own door. Thereupon,
the obedient municipality sets the arrested rioters free, and lowers the price of bread one-sixth.
Above the Loire, the dispatches of Orne and Calvados complete the picture. "Our district,"
writes a lieutenant of the gendarmerie,[3260] "is a prey to brigandage... About thirty rascals
have just sacked the château of Dampierre. Calls for men are constantly made upon us," which
we cannot satisfy, "because the call is general on all sides." The details are curious, and
here, notwithstanding the Minister's familiarity with popular misdeeds, he cannot avoid noting
one extortion of a new species. "The inhabitants of the villages[3261] collect together, betake
themselves to different chateaux, seize the wives and children of their proprietors, and keep
them as bail for promises of reimbursement which they force the latter to sign, not merely
for feudal taxes, but, again, for expenses to which this taxation may have given rise," first
under the actual proprietor and then under his predecessors; in the mean time they install
themselves on the premises, demand payments for their time, devastate the buildings on the
place, and sell the furniture.--All this is accompanied with the usual slaughter. The Directory
of the department of Orne advises the Minister[3262] that "a former noble has been killed (homicide)
in the canton of Sepf, an ex-curé in the town of Bellême, an unsworn priest in the canton of
Putanges, an ex-capuchin in the territory of Alençon." The same day, at Caen, the syndic-attorney
of Calvados, M. Bayeux, a man of sterling merit, imprisoned by the local Jacobins, has just
been shot down in the street and bayoneted, while the National Assembly was passing a decree
proclaiming his innocence and ordering him to be set at liberty.[3263]

Route of the East.--At Rouen, in front of the Hôtel-de-ville, the National Guard, stoned for
more than an hour, finally fire a volley and kill four men; throughout the department violence
is committed in connection with grain, while wheat is stolen or carried off by force;[3264]
but Roland is obliged to restrict himself; he can note only political disturbances. Besides,
he is obliged to hurry up, for murders abound everywhere. In addition to the turmoil of the
army and the capital,[3265] each department in the vicinity of Paris or near the frontier furnishes
its quota of murders. They take place at Gisors, in the Eure, at Chantilly, and at Clermont
in the Oise, at Saint-Amand in the Pas-de-Calais, at Cambray in the Nord, at Retel and Charleville
in the Ardennes, at Rheims and at Chalons in the Marne, at Troyes in the Aube, at Meaux in
Seine-et-Marne, and at Versailles in Seine-et-Oise.[3266]--Roland, I imagine, does not open
this file, and for a good reason; he knows too well how M. de Brissac and M. Delessart, and
the other sixty-three persons killed at Versailles; it was he who signed Fournier's commission,
the commander of the murderers. At this very moment he is forced to correspond with this villain,
to send him certificates of "zeal and patriotism," and to assign him, over and above his robberies,
30,000 francs to defray the expenses of the operation.[3267]--But among the dispatches there
are some he cannot overlook, if he desires to know to what his authority is reduced, in what
contempt all authority is held, how the civil or military rabble exercises its power, with
what promptitude it disposes of the most illustrious and most useful lives, especially those
who have been, or are now, in command, the Minister perhaps saying to himself that his turn
will come next.

Let us look at the case of M. de la Rochefoucauld. A philanthropist since he was young, a liberal
on entering the Constituent Assembly, elected president of the Paris department, one of the
most persistent, most generous, and most respected patriots from first to last,--who better
deserved to be spared than? Arrested at Gisors[3268] by order of the Paris Commune, he left
the inn, escorted by the Parisian commissary, surrounded by the municipal council, twelve gendarmes
and one hundred National Guards; behind him walked his mother, eighty years of age, his wife
following in a carriage; there could be no fear of an escape. But, for a suspected person,
death is more certain than a prison; three hundred volunteers of the Orne and the Sarthe departments,
on their way through Gisors, collect and cry out: "We must have his head--nothing shall stop
us!" A stone hits M. de la Rochefoucauld on the temple; he falters, his escort is broken up,
and they finish him with clubs and sabers, while the municipal council "have barely time to
drive off the carriage containing the ladies."--Accordingly, national justice, in the hands
of the volunteers, has its sudden outbursts, its excesses, its reactions, the effect of which
it is not advisable to wait for. For example, at Cambray,[3269] a division of foot-gendarmerie
had just left the town, and it occurs to them that they had forgotten "to purge the prison".
It returns, seizes the keeper, takes him to the Hôtel-de-ville, examines the prison register,
sets at liberty those whose crimes seem to it excusable, and provides them with passports.
On the other hand, it kills a former royal procureur, on whom addresses are found tainted with
"aristocratic principles," an unpopular lieutenant-colonel, and a suspected captain.--However
slight or ill-founded a suspicion, so much the worse for the officer on whom it falls! At Charleville,[3270]
two loads of arms having passed through one gate instead of another, to avoid a bad road, M.
Juchereau, inspector of the manufacture of arms and commander of the place, is declared a traitor
by the volunteers and the crowd, torn from the hands of the municipal officers, clubbed to
the ground, stamped on, and stabbed. His head, fixed to a pike, is paraded through Charleville,
then into Mézières, where it is thrown into the river running between the two towns. The body
remains, and this the municipality orders to be interred; but it is not worthy of burial; the
murderers get hold of it, and cast it into the water that it may join the head. In the meantime
the lives of the municipal officers hang by a single thread. One is seized by the throat; another
is knocked out of his chair and threatened with hanging, a gun is aimed at him and he is beaten
and kicked; subsequently a plot is devised "to cut off their heads and plunder their houses."

He who disposes of lives, indeed, also disposes of property. Roland has only to flick through
two or three reports to see how patriotism furnishes a cloak for brutal license and greed.
At Coucy, in the department of Aisne,[3271] the peasantry of seventeen parishes, assembled
for the purpose of furnishing their military quota, rush with a loud clamor to two houses,
the property of M. des Fossés, a former deputy to the Constituent Assembly, and the two finest
in the town; one of them had been occupied by Henry IV. Some of the municipal officers who
try to interfere are nearly cut to pieces, and the entire municipal body takes to flight. M.
des Fossés, with his two daughters, succeed in hiding themselves in an obscure corner in the
vicinity, and afterwards in a small tenement offered to them by a humane gardener, and finally,
after great difficulty, they reach Soissons. Of his two houses, "nothing remains but the walls.
Windows, casings, doors, and wainscoting, all are shattered"; twenty thousand francs of assignats
in a portfolio are destroyed or carried off; the title-deeds of the property are not to be
found, and the damage is estimated at 200,000 francs. The pillage lasted from seven o'clock
in the morning to seven o'clock in the evening, and, as is always the case, ended in a fête.
The plunderers, entering the cellars, drank "two hogsheads of wine and two casks of brandy;
thirty or forty remained dead drunk, and were taken away with considerable difficulty." There
is no prosecution, no investigation; the new mayor, who, one month after, makes up his mind
to denounce the act, begs the Minister not to give his name, for, he says, "the agitators in
the council-general of the Commune threaten, with fearful consequences, whoever is discovered
to have written to you."[3272]--Such is the ever-present menace under which the gentry live,
even when veterans in the service of freedom; Roland, foremost in his files, finds heartrending
letters addressed directly to him, as a last recourse. Early in 1789, M. de Gouy d'Arcy[3273]
was the first to put his pen to paper in behalf of popular rights. A deputy of the noblesse
to the Constituent Assembly, he is the first to rally to the Third-Estate; when the liberal
minority of the noblesse came and took their seats in the hall of the Communes, he had already
been there eight days, and, for thirty months, he "invariably seated himself on the side of
the 'Left.'" Senior major-general, and ordered by the Legislative Assembly to suppress the
outbreak of the 6,000 insurgents at Noyon, "he kept his rigorous orders in his pocket for ten
days"; he endured their insults; he risked his life "to save those of his misguided fellow-citizens,
and he had the good fortune not to spill a drop of blood." Exhausted by so much labor and effort,
almost dying, ordered into the country by his physicians, "he devoted his income to the relief
of poverty"; he planted on his own domain the first liberty tree that was erected; he furnished
the volunteers with clothes and arms; "instead of a fifth, he yielded up a third of his revenue
under the forced system of taxation." His children live with him on the property, which has
been in the family four hundred years, and the peasantry call him "their father." No one could
lead a more tranquil or, indeed, a more meritorious existence. But, being a noble, he is suspected,
and a delegate from the Paris Commune denounces him at Compiègne as having in his house two
cannon and five hundred and fifty muskets. There is at once a domiciliary visit. Eight hundred
men, infantry and cavalry, appear before the chateau d'Arcy in battle array. He meets them
at the door and tenders them the keys. After a search of six hours, they find twelve fowling
pieces and thirteen rusty pistols, which he has already declared. His disappointed visitors
grumble, break, eat and drink to the extent of 2,000 crowns damage.[3274] Nevertheless, urged
by their leaders they finally retire. But M. de Gouy has 60,000 francs in rentals which would
be so much gain to the nation if he would emigrate; this must be effected, by expelling him,
and, moreover during his expulsion, they may fill their pockets. For eight days this matter
is discussed in the Compiègne club, in the bars, in the barracks, and, on the ninth day, 150
volunteers issue from the town, declaring that they are going to kill M. de Gouy and all who
belong to him. Informed of this, he departs with his family, leaving the doors of his house
wide open. There is a general pillage for five hours; the mob drink the costly wines, steal
the plate, demand horses to carry their booty away, and promise to return soon and take the
owner's head.--In effect, on the following morning at four o'clock, there is a new invasion,
a new pillage, and, this time, the last one; the servants escape under a fire of musketry,
and M. de Gouy, at the request of the villagers, whose vineyards are devastated, is obliged
to quit that part of the country.[3275]--There is no need to go through the whole file. At
Houdainville, at the house of M. de Saint-Maurice, at Nointel, on the estate of the Duc de
Bourbon, at Chantilly, on the estate of the Prince de Condé, at the house of M. de Fitz-James,
and elsewhere, a certain Gauthier, "commandant of the Paris detachment of Searchers, and charged
with the powers of the Committee of Supervision," makes his patriotic circuit, and Roland knows
beforehand of what that consists, namely, a dragonnade[3276] in regular form on the domains
of all nobles, absent or present.[3277]

Favorite game is still found in the clergy, more vigorously hunted than the nobles; Roland,
charged with the duty of maintaining public order, asks himself how the lives of inoffensive
priests, which the law recommends to him, can be protected.--At Troyes, at the house of M.
Fardeau, an old non-conformist curé, an altar decked with its sacred vessels is discovered,
and M. Fardeau, arrested, refuses to take the civic oath. Torn from his prison, and ordered
to shout "Vive la Nation!" he again refuses. On this, a volunteer, borrowing an ax from a baker,
chops off his head, and this head, washed in the river, is borne to the Hôtel-de-ville.[3278]--At
Meaux, a brigade of Parisian gendarmerie murders seven priests, and, as an extra, six ordinary
malefactors in confinement.[3279] At Rheims, the Parisian volunteers first make way with the
post-master and his clerk, both under suspicion because the smell of burnt paper had issued
from their chimney, and, next, M. de Montrosier, an old retired officer, which is the opening
of the hunt. Afterwards they fall upon two ecclesiastics with pikes and sabers, whom their
game-beaters have brought in from the country, then on the former curé of Saint-Jean, and on
that of Rilly; their corpses are cut up, paraded through the streets in portions, and burnt
in a bonfire; one of the wounded priests, the abbé Alexandre, is thrown in still alive.[3280]--Roland
recognizes the men of September, who, exposing their still bloody pikes, came to his domicile
to demand their wages; wherever the band passes it announces, "in the name of the people,"
its "plenary power to spread the example of the capital." Now, as 40,000 unsworn priests are
condemned by the decree of August 26 to leave their departments in a week and France in a fortnight,
shall they be allowed to depart? Eight thousand of them at Rouen, in obedience to the decree,
charter transports, which the riotous population of both sides of the Seine prevent from leaving.
Roland sees in his dispatches that in Rouen, as elsewhere, they crowd the municipalities for
their passports,[3281] but that these are often refused. Better still, at Troyes; at Meaux,
at Lyons, at Dôle, and in many other towns, the same thing is done as at Paris; they are confined
in particular houses or in prisons, at least, provisionally, "for fear that they may congregate
under the German eagle"; so that, made rebellious and declared traitors in spite of themselves,
they may still remain in their pens subject to the knife. As the exportation of specie is prohibited,
those who have procured the necessary coin are robbed of it on the frontier, while others,
who fly at all hazards, tracked like wild boars, or run down like hares, escape like the bishop
of Barral, athwart bayonets, or like the abbé Guillon, athwart sabers, when they are not struck
down, like the abbé Pescheur, by the blows of a gun-stock.[3282]

It is soon dawn. The files are too numerous and too large; Roland finds that, out of eighty-three,
he can examine but fifty; he must hasten on; leaving the East, his eyes again turn to the South.--On
this side, too, there are strange sights. On the 2nd of September, at Châlons-sur-Marne[3283],
M. Chanlaire, an octogenarian and deaf, is returning, with his prayer-book under his arm, from
the Mall, to which he resorted daily to read his prayers. A number of Parisian volunteers who
meet him, seeing that he looks like a devotee, order him to shout, "Vive la Liberté" Unable
to understand them, he makes no reply. They then seize him by the ears, and, not marching fast
enough, they drag him along; his old ears give way, and, excited by seeing blood, they cut
off his ears and nose, and thus, the poor old man dripping with blood, they reach the Hôtel-de-Ville.
At this sight a notary, posted there as sentinel, and who is a man of feeling, is horror-stricken
and escapes, while the other National Guards hasten to shut the iron gates. The Parisians,
still dragging along their captive, go to the district and then to the department bureau "to
denounce aristocrats"; on the way they continue to strike the tottering old man, who falls
down; they then decapitate him, place pieces of his body on pikes, and parade these about.
Meanwhile, in this same town, twenty-two gentlemen; at Beaune, forty priests and nobles; at
Dijon, eighty-three heads of families, locked up as suspected without evidence or examination,
and confined at their own expense two months under pikes, ask themselves every morning whether
the populace and the volunteers, who shout death cries through the streets, mean to release
them in the same way as in Paris.[3284]--A trifle is sufficient to provoke a murder. On the
19th of August, at Auxerre as the National Guard is marching along, three citizens, after having
taken the civic oath, "left the ranks," and, on being called back, "to make them fall in,"
one, either impatient or in ill-humor, "replied with an indecent gesture". The populace, taking
it as an insult, instantly rush at them, and shoving aside the municipal body and the National
Guards, wound one and kill the other two.[3285] A fortnight after, in the same town, several
young ecclesiastics are massacred, and "the corpse of one of them remains three days on a manure
heap, the relatives not being allowed to bury it." About the same date, in a village of sabot
makers, five leagues from Autun, four ecclesiastics provided with passports, among them a bishop
and his two grand-vicars, are arrested, then examined, robbed, and murdered by the peasantry.--Below
Autun, especially in the district of Roanne, the villagers burn the rent-rolls of national
property; the volunteers put property-owners to ransom; both, apart from each other or together,
give themselves up "to every excess and to every sort of iniquity against those whom they suspect
of incivism under pretense of religious opinions."[3286] However preoccupied or upset Roland's
mind may be by the philosophic generalities with which it is filled, he has long inspected
manufactures in this country; the name of every place is familiar to him; objects and forms
are this time clearly defined to his arid imagination, and he begins to see things through
and beyond mere words.

Madame Roland rests her finger on Lyons, so familiar to her two years before; she becomes excited
against "the quadruple aristocracy of the town, petty nobles, priests, heavy merchants, and
limbs of the law; in short, those formerly known as honest folks, according to the insolence
of the ancient régime."[3287] She may now find an aristocracy of another kind there, that of
the gutter. Following the example of Paris, the Lyons clubbists, led by Charlier, have arranged
for a massacre on a grand scale of the evil-disposed or suspected Another ringleader, Dodieu,
has drawn up a list by name of two hundred aristocrats to be hung; on the 9th of September,
women with pikes, the maniacs of the suburbs, bands of "the unknown," collected by the central
club,[3288] undertake to clean out the prisons. If the butchery is not equal to that of Paris,
it is because the National Guard, more energetic, interferes just at the moment when a Parisian
emissary, Saint-Charles, reads off a list of names in the prison of Roanne already taken from
the prison register. But, in other places, it arrives too late.--Eight officers of the Royal-Pologne
regiment, in garrison at Auch, some of them having been in the service twenty and thirty years,
had been compelled to resign owing to the insubordination of their men; but, at the express
desire of the Minister of War, they had patriotically remained at their posts, and, in twenty
days of laborious marching, they had led their regiment from Auch to Lyons. Three days after
their arrival, seized at night in their beds, conducted to Pierre-Encize, pelted with stones
on the way, kept in secret confinement, and with frequent and prolonged examinations, all this
merely put their services and their innocence in stronger light. They are taken from the prison
by the Jacobin mob; of the eight, seven are killed in the street, and four priests along with
them, while the exhibition of their work by the murderers is still more brazen than at Paris.
They parade the heads of the dead all night on the ends of their pikes; they carry them to
the Place des Terreaux into the coffee-houses; they set them on the tables and derisively offer
them beer; they then light torches, enter the Célestins theater, and, marching on the stage
with their trophies, blending real and mock tragedy.--The epilogue is both grotesque and horrible.
Roland, at the bottom of the file, finds a letter from his colleague, Danton,[3289] who begs
him to release the officers, murdered three months ago, "for," says Danton, "if no charge can
be found against them, it would be crying injustice to keep them longer in irons." Roland's
clerk makes a minute on Danton's letter: "This matter disposed of." At this I imagine the couple
looking at each other in silence. Madame Roland may remember that, at the beginning of the
Revolution, she herself demanded heads, especially "two illustrious heads," and hoped "that
the National Assembly would formally try them, or that some generous Decius"[3290] would devote
himself to "striking them down."[3291] Her prayers are granted. The trial is about to begin
in the regular way, and the Decius she has invoked is everywhere found throughout France.

The south-east corner remains, that Provence, described to him by Barbaroux as the last retreat
of philosophy and freedom. Roland follows the Rhône down with his finger, and on both banks
he finds, as he passes along, the usual characteristic misdeeds.--On the right bank, in Cantal
and in the Gard, "the defenders of the country" fill their pockets at the expense of taxpayers
designated by themselves;[3292] this forced subscription is called "a voluntary gift." "Poor
laborers at Nismes were taxed 50 francs, others 200, 300, 900, 1,000, under penalty of devastation
and of bad treatment."--In the country near Tarascon the volunteers, returning to the old-fashioned
ways of bandits, brandish the saber over the mother's head, threaten to smother the aunt in
her bed, hold the child over a deep well, and thus extort from the farmer or proprietor even
as much as 4,000 or 5,000 francs. Generally the farmer keeps silent, for, in case of complaint,
he is sure to have his buildings burnt and his olive trees cut down.[3293]--On the left bank,
in the Isère, Lieutenant-colonel Spendeler, seized by the populace of Tullins, was murdered,
and then hung by his feet in a tree on the roadside;[3294]--in the Drôme, the volunteers of
Gard forced the prison at Montélimart and hacked an innocent person to death with a saber;[3295]
in Vaucluse, the pillaging is general and constant. With all public offices in their hands,
and they alone admitted into the National Guard, the old brigands of Avignon, with the municipality
for their accomplice, sweep the town and raid about the country; in town, 450,000 francs of
"voluntary gifts" are handed over to the Glacière murderers by the friends and relatives of
the dead;--in the country, ransoms of 1,000 and 10,000 francs are imposed on rich cultivators,
to say nothing of the orgies of conquest and the pleasures of despots, money forcibly obtained
in honor of innumerable liberty trees, banquets at a cost of five or six hundred francs, paid
for by extorted funds, reveling of every sort and unrestrained havoc on the invaded farms;[3296]
in short, the abuse drunken force amusing itself with brutality and proud of its violence.

Following this long line of murders and robbery, the Minister reaches Marseilles, and I imagine
him stopping at this city some-what dumbfounded. Not that he is in any way astonished at widespread
murders; undoubtedly he has had received information of them from Aix, Aubagne, Apt, Brignolles,
and Eyguières, while there are a series of them at Marseilles, one in July, two in August,
and two in September;[3297] but this he must be used to. What disturbs him here is to see the
national bond dissolving; he sees departments breaking away, new, distinct, independent, complete
governments forming on the basis of popular sovereignty;[3298] publicly and officially, they
keep funds raised for the central government for local uses; they institute penalties against
their inhabitants seeking refuge in France; they organize tribunals, levy taxes, raise troops,
and undertake military expeditions.[3299] Assembled together to elect representatives to the
Convention, the electors of the Bouches-du-Rhône were, additionally, disposed to establish
throughout the department "the reign of liberty and equality," and to this effect they found,
says one of them, "an army of 1,200 heroes to purge the districts in which the bourgeois aristocracy
still raises its bold, imprudent head." Consequently, at Sonas, Noves, St. Remy, Maillane,
Eyrages, Graveson, Eyguières, extended over the territory consisting of the districts of Tarascon,
Arles and Salon, these twelve hundred heroes are authorized to get a living out of the inhabitants
at pleasure, while the rest of the expenses of the expedition are to be borne "by suspected
citizens."[32100] These expeditions are prolonged six weeks and more; one of them goes outside
of the department, to Monosque, in the Basses-Alpes, and Monosque, obliged to pay 104,000 francs
to its "saviors and fathers," as an indemnity for traveling expenses, writes to the Minister
that, henceforth, it can no longer meet his impositions.

What kind of improvised sovereigns are these who have instituted perambulating brigandage?
Roland, on this point, has simply to question his friend Barbaroux, their president and the
executive agent of their decrees. "Nine hundred persons," Barbaroux himself writes, "generally
of slight education, impatiently listening to conservatives, and yielding all attention to
the effervescent, cunning in the diffusion of calumnies, petty suspicious minds, a few men
of integrity but unenlightened, a few enlightened but cowardly; many of them patriotic, but
without judgment, without philosophy"; in short, a Jacobin club, and Jacobin to such an extent
as to "make the hall ring with applause[32101] on receiving the news of the September massacre";
in the foremost ranks, "a crowd of men eager for office and money, eternal informers, imagining
trouble or exaggerating it to obtain for themselves lucrative commissions;"[32102] in other
words, the usual pack of hungry appetites in full chase.--To really know them, Roland has only
to examine the last file, that of the neighboring departments, and consider their colleagues
in Var. In this great wreck of reason and of integrity, called the Jacobin Revolution, a few
stray waifs still float on the surface; many of the department administrations are composed
of liberals, friends of order, intelligent men, upright and firm defenders of the law. Such
was the Directory of Var.[32103] To get rid of it the Toulon Jacobins contrived an ambush worthy
of the Borgias and Oliverettos of the sixteenth century.[32104] On the 28th of July, in the
forenoon, Sylvestre, president of the club, distributed among his trusty men in the suburbs
and purlieus of the town an enormous sack of red caps, while he posted his squads in convenient
places. In the mean time the municipal body, his accomplices, formally present themselves at
the department bureau, and invite the administrators to join them in fraternizing with the
people. The administrators, suspecting nothing, accompany them, each arm in arm with a municipal
officer or delegate of the club. They scarcely reach the square when there rushes upon it from
every avenue a troop of red-caps lying in wait. The syndic-attorney, the vice-president of
the department, and two other administrators, are seized, cut down and hung; another, M. Debaux,
succeeding in making his escape, hides away, scales the ramparts during the night, breaks his
thigh and lies there on the ground; he is discovered the next morning; a band, led by Jassaud,
a harbor-laborer, and by Lemaille, calling him self "the town hangman," come and raise him
up, carry him away in a barrow, and hang him at the first lamppost. Other bands dispatch the
public prosecutor in the same fashion, a district administrator, and a merchant, and then,
spreading over the country, pillage and slay among the country houses.--In vain has the commandant
of the place, M. Dumerbion, entreated the municipality to proclaim martial law. Not only does
it refuse, but it enjoins him to order one-half of his troops back to their barracks. By way
of an offset, it sets free a number of soldiers condemned to the galleys, and all that are
confined for insubordination.--Henceforth every shadow of discipline vanishes, and, in the
following month, murders multiply. M. de Possel, a navy administrator, is taken from his dwelling,
and a rope is passed around his neck; he is saved just in time by a bombardier, the secretary
of the club. M. Senis, caught in his country-house, is hung on the Place du Vieux Palais. Desidery,
a captain in the navy, the curé of La Valette, and M. de Sacqui des Thourets, are beheaded
in the suburbs, and their beads are brought into town on the ends of three poles. M. de Flotte
d'Argenson, vice-admiral, a man of Herculean stature, of such a grave aspect, and so austere
that he is nicknamed the "Père Eternel" is treacherously enticed to the entrance of the Arsenal,
where he sees the lantern already dropping; he seizes a gun, defends himself; yields to numbers,
and after having been slashed with sabers, is hung. M. de Rochemaure, a major-general of marines,
is likewise sabred and hung in the same manner; a main artery in the neck, severed by the blow
of the saber, spouts blood from the corpse and forms a pool on the pavement; Barry, one of
the executioners, washes his hands in it and sprinkles the by-standers as if bestowing a blessing
on them.--Barry, Lemaille, Jassaud, Sylvestre, and other leading assassins, the new kings of
Toulon, sufficiently resemble those of Paris. Add to these a certain Figon, who gives audience
in his garret, straightens out social inequalities, forces the daughters of large farmers to
marry poor republicans, and rich young men to marry prostitutes,[32105] and, taking the lists
furnished by the club or neighboring municipalities, ransoming all the well-to-do and opulent
persons inscribed on them. In order that the portraiture of the band may be complete, it must
be noted that, on the 23rd of August, it attempted to set free the 1800 convicts; the latter,
not comprehending that they were wanted for political allies, did not dare sally forth, or,
at least, the reliable portion of the National Guard arrived in time to put their chains on
again. But here its efforts cease, and for more than a year public authority remains in the
hands of a Jacobin faction which, as far as public order is concerned, does not even have the
morals of a convict.

More than once during the course of this long review the Minister must have flushed with shame;
for to the reprimands dispatched by him to these apathetic administrations, they reply by citing
himself as an example:

"You desire us to denounce the arbitrary arrests to the public prosecutor; have you denounced
those guilty of similar and yet greater crimes committed at the capital?"[32106]--

From all quarters come the cries of the oppressed appealing to "the patriot Minister, the sworn
enemy of anarchy," to "the good and incorruptible Minister of the Interior, his only reproach,
the common sense of his wife," and he could only reply with empty phrases and condolences:

"To lament the events which so grievously distress the province, all administrations being
truly useful when they forestall evils, it being very sad to be obliged to resort to such remedies,
and recommend to them a more active supervision."[32107]

"To lament and find consolation in the observations made in the letter," which announces four
murders, but calls attention to the fact that "the victims immolated are counter-revolutionaries."[32108]

Roland has carried on written dialogues with the village municipalities, and given lessons
in constitutional law to communities of pot-breakers.[32109]--But, on this territory, he is
defeated by his own principles, while the pure Jacobins read him a lesson in turn; they, likewise,
are able to deduce the consequences of their own creed.

"Brother and Friend, Sir," write those of Rouen, "not to be always at the feet of the municipality,
we have declared ourselves permanent, deliberative sections of the Commune."[32110]

Let the so-called constituted authorities, the formalists and pedants of the Executive Council
and the Minister of the Interior, look twice before censuring the exercise of popular sovereignty.
This sovereign raises his voice and drives his clerks back into their holes; spoliation and
murder, all this is just.

"Can you have forgotten that, after the tempest, as you yourself declared in the height of
the storm, it is the nation which saves itself? Well, sir, this is what we have done.[32111]..
What! when all France was resounding with that long expected proclamation of the abolition
of tyranny, you were willing that the traitors, who strove to reestablish it, should escape
public prosecution! My God, what century is this in which we find such Ministers!"

Arbitrary taxes, penalties, confiscations, revolutionary expeditions, nomadic garrisons, pillage,
what fault can be found with all that?

"We do not pretend that these are legal methods; but, drawing nearer to nature, we demand what
object the oppressed have in view in invoking justice. Is it to lag behind and vainly pursue
an equitable adjustment which is rendered fleeting by judicial forms? Correct these abuses
or do not complain of the sovereign people suppressing them in advance.... You, sir, with so
many reasons for it, would do well to recall your insults and redeem the wrongs you have inflicted
before we happen to render them public."... "Citizen Minister, people flatter you; you are
told too often that you are virtuous; the moment this gives you pleasure you cease to be so....
Discard the astute brigands who surround you, listen to the people, and remember that a citizen
Minister is merely the executor of the sovereign will of the people."

However narrow Roland's outlook may be, he must finally comprehend that the innumerable robberies
and murders which he has just noted over are not a thoughtless eruption, a passing crisis of
delirium, but a manifesto of the victorious party, the beginning of an established system of
government. Under this system, write the Marseilles Jacobins,

"to-day, in our happy region, the good rule over the bad, and constitute a party which allows
no contamination; whatever is vicious has gone into hiding or has been exterminated." The programme
is very precise, and acts form its commentary. This is the programme which the faction, throughout
the interregnum, sets openly before the electors.

*****

[Footnote 3201: Guillon de Montléon, I. 122. Letter of Laussel, dated Paris, 28th of August,
1792, to the Jacobins of Lyons: "Tell me how many heads have been cut off at home. It would
be infamous to let our enemies escape." (1792).]

[Footnote 3202: "Les Révolutions de Paris," by Prudhomme, Vol. XIII. pp. 59-63 (14th of July,
3 Decrees of the 10th and 11th of August, 1792.)]

[Footnote 3204: Prudhomme, number of the 15th of September, p. 483.--Mortimer-Ternaux, IV. 430.]

[Footnote 3205: Mortimer-Ternaux. IV. II. Fauchet's report, Nov. 6, 1792.--Ib., IV. 91, 142.
Discourse of M. Fockedey, administrator of the department of the north, and of M. Bailly, deputy
de Seine-et-Marne.]

[Footnote 3206: Prudhomme, number of Sept. 1, 1792, pp. 375, 381, 385: number of Sept. 22,
pp. 528-530,--Cf. Guillon de Montléon, I. 144. Here are some of the principles announced by
the Jacobin leaders of Lyons, Châlier, Laussel, Cusset, Rouillot, etc. "The time has come when
this prophecy must be fulfilled: The rich shall be put in the place of the poor, and the poor
in the place of the rich."--"If a half of their property be left them the rich will still be
happy."--"If the laboring people of Lyons are destitute of work and of bread, they can profit
by these calamities in helping themselves to wealth in the quarter where they find it."--"No
one who is near a sack of wheat can die of hunger. Do you wish the word that will buy all that
you want? Slay!--or perish!"]

[Footnote 3207: Prudhomme, number for the 28th of August, 1792, pp. 284-287.]

[Footnote 3208: Cf.. "The French Revolution," I.346. In ten of the departments the seventh
jacquerie continues the sixth without a break. Among other examples, this letter from the administrators
of Tarn, June 18, 1792, may be read ("Archives Nationales," F7, 3271). "Numerous bands overran
both the city (Castres) and the country. They forcibly entered the houses of the citizens,
broke the furniture to pieces, and pillaged everything that fell into their hands. Girls and
women underwent shameful treatment. Commissioners sent by the district and the municipality
to advocate peace were insulted and menaced. The pillage was renewed; the home of the citizen
was violated." The administrators add: "In many places the progress made by the constitution
was indicated by the speedy and numerous emigrations of its enemies."]

[Footnote 3209: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3272. Letter of the administrators of the Var, May
27, 1792.--Letter of the minister, Duranthon, May 28.--Letter of the commission composing the
directory Oct. 31.]

[Footnote 3210: "Archives Nationales," Letter of the administrators of Var, May. 27.--The saying
is the summary of the revolutionary spirit; it recurs constantly.--Cf. the Duc de Montpensier,
"Mémoires," p. 11. At Aix one of his guards said to the sans-culotte who were breaking into
the room where he had been placed: "Citizens, by what order do you enter here? and why have
you forced the guard at the door?" One of them. answered: "By order of the people. Don't you
know that the people is sovereign?"]

[Footnote 3211: "Archives Nationales," letter of the public prosecutor, May 23.--Letters of
the administrators of the department, May 22, and 27 (on the events of the 13th of May at Beausset).]

[Footnote 3212: "Archives Nationales," F7 3193 and 3194. Previous details may be found in these
files. This department is one of those in which the seventh jacquerie is merely a prolongation
of the sixth.--Cf. F7, 3193. Letter of the royal Commissioner at Milhau, May 5, 1791. "The
situation is getting worse; the administrative bodies continue powerless and without resources.
Most of their members are still unable to enter upon their duties; while the factions, who
still rule, multiply their excesses in every direction. Another house in the country, near
the town, has been burnt; another broken into, with a destruction of the furniture and a part
of the dinner-service, and doors and windows broken open and smashed; several houses visited,
under the pretense of arms or powder being concealed in them; all that is found with private
persons and dealers not of the factious party is carried off; tumultuous shouts, nocturnal
assemblages, plots for pillage or burning; disturbances caused by the sale of grain, searches
under this pretext in private granaries, forced prices at current reductions; forty louis taken
from a lady retired into the country, found in her trunk, which was broken into, and which,
they say, should have been in assignats. The police and municipal officers witnesses of these
outrages, are sometimes forced to sanction them with their presence; they neither dare suppress
them nor punish the well-known authors of them. Such is a brief statement of the disorders
committed in less than eight days."--In relation specially to Saint-Afrique. Cf. F7, 3194,
the letter, among others, of the department administrator, march 29, 1792.]

[Footnote 3213: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3193. Extract from the registers of the clerk of
the juge-de-paix of Saint-Afrique, and report by the department commissioners, Nov. 10, 1792,
with the testimony of the witnesses, forming a document of 115 pages.]

[Footnote 3214: Deposition of Alexis Bro, a volunteer, and three others.]

[Footnote 3215: Deposition of Pons, a merchant. After this devastation he is obliged to address
a petition to the executive power, asking permission to remain in the town.]

[Footnote 3216: Deposition of Capdenet, a shoemaker.]

[Footnote 3217: Depositions of Marguerite Galzeng, wife of Guibal a miller, Pierre Canac and
others.]

[Footnote 3218: Depositions of Martin, syndic-attorney of the commune of Brusque; Aussel, curé
of Versol; Martial Aussel, vicar of Lapeyre and others.]

[Footnote 3219: Deposition of Anne Tourtoulon.]

[Footnote 3220: Depositions of Jeanne Tuffon, of Marianne Terral, of Marguerite Thomas, of
Martin syndic-attorney of the commune of Brusque, of Virot, of Brassier, and othes. The details
are too specific to allow quotation.]

[Footnote 3221: Depositions of Moursol, wool-carder; Louis Grand, district-administrator, and
others.]

[Footnote 3222: For example, at Limoges, Aug. 16.--Cf. Louis Guibert, "le Parti Girondin dans
la Haute-Vienne," p. 14.]

[Footnote 3223: Paris, "Histoire de Joseph Lebon," I. 60. Restoration of the Arras municipality.
Joseph Lebon is proclaimed mayor Sept. 16.]

[Footnote 3224: For example, at Caen and at Carcassonne.]

[Footnote 3225: For example, at Toulon.]

[Footnote 3226: "Un séjour en France," 19, 29. ("Letters of a Wittness to the French Revolution,"
translated by H. Taine.1872)]

[Footnote 3227: Ibid., p. 38: 2M. de M--, who had served for thirty years gave up his arms
to a boy who treated him with the greatest insolence."]

[Footnote 3228: Paris, Ibid., p. 55 and the following pages.--Albert Babeau, "Histoire de Troyes,"
I. 503-515.--Sausay, III. ch. I.]

[Footnote 3229: "The Ancient Régime," 381, 391, 392.]

[Footnote 3230: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3217. Letter of Castanet, an old gendarme, Aug.
21 1792.]

[Footnote 3231: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3219. Letter of M. Alquier to the first consul,
Pluviôse 18, year VIII.]

[Footnote 3232: Lauvergne, "Histoire du Var," p. 104.]

[Footnote 3233: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 325, 327.]

[Footnote 3234: "Archives-Nationales," F7, 3271. Letter of the Minister of Justice, with official
reports of the municipality of Rabastens. "The juge-de-paix of Rabastens was insulted in his
place by putting an end to the proceedings commenced against an old deserter at the head of
the municipality, and tried for robbery. They threatened to stab the judge if he recommenced
the trial. Numerous gangs of vagabonds overrun the country, pillaging and putting to ransom
all owners of property.. . The people has been led off by a municipal officer, a constitutional
curé, and a brother of sieur Tournal, one of the authors of the evils which have desolated
the Comtat." (March 5, 1792).]

[Footnote 3235: Guillon de Montléon, I. 84, 109, 139, 155, 158, 464.--Ibid., p.441, details
concerning Châlier by his companion Chassagnon.--"Archives Nationales," F7, 3255. Letter by
Laussel, Sept. 22, 1792.]

[Footnote 3236: Barbaroux, "Mémoires," 85. Barbaroux is an eye-witness, for he has just returned
to Marseilles and is about to preside over the electoral assembly of the Bouches-du-Rhône.]

[Footnote 3237: C. Rousset, "Les Volontaires," p. 67.--In his report of June 27, 1792, Albert
Dubayet estimates the number of volunteers at 84,000.]

[Footnote 3238: C. Rousset, "Les Volontaires," 101. Letter of Kellermann, Aug.23, 1792.--"Un
séjour en France," I. 347 and following pages.--"Archives Nationales," F7, 3214. Letter of
an inhabitant of Nogent-le-Rotrou (Eure). One-third of the 2d battalion of Haute-Saône is composed
of children 13 and 14 years old.]

[Footnote 3241: Moniteur, XIII. 742 (Sept. 21). Marshal Lückner and his aids-de-camp just miss
being killed by Parisian volunteers.--"Archives Nationales," BB, 16703. Letter by Labarrière
aide-de-camp of General Flers, Antwerp, March 19, 1793. On the desertion en masse of gendarmes
from Dumouriez's army, who return to Paris.]

[Footnote 3242: Cf. "L'armée et la garde nationale," by Baron Poisson, III. 475. "On hostilities
being declared (April, 1792), the contingent of volunteers was fixed at 200,000 men. This second
attempt resulted in nothing but confused and disorderly levies. Owing to the spinelessness
of the volunteer troops it was impossible to continue the war in Belgium, which allowed the
enemy to cross the frontier."--Gouverneur Morris, so well informed, had already written, under
date of Dec.27, 1791: "The national guards, who have turned out as volunteers, are in many
instances that corrupted scum of overgrown population of which large cities purge themselves,
and which, without constitutions to support the fatigues... of war, have every vice and every
disease which can render them the scourge of their friends and the laughing stock of their
foes."--Buchez et Roux, XXVI. 177. Plan of the administrators of Hérault, presented to the
Convention April 27, 1793. "The composition of the enlistment should not be concealed. Most
of those of which it is made up are not volunteers; they are not citizens all classes of society,
who, submitting to draft on the ballot, have willingly made up their minds to go and defend
the Republic. The larger part of the recruits are substitutes who, through the attraction of
a large sum, have concluded to leave their homes."]

[Footnote 3243: C. Rousset, 47. Letter of the directory of Somme, Feb. 26, 1792.]

[Footnote 3244: "Archives Nationales," F 7, 3270. Deliberations of the council-general of the
commune of Roye, Oct. 8, 1792 (in relation to the violence committed by two divisions of Parisian
gendarmerie during their passage, Oct. 7 and 8).]

[Footnote 3245: Moore, I. 338 (Sept. 8, 1792).--(The Condés were proud princes from a branch
of the royal house of Bourbon. (SR).]

[Footnote 3246: C Rousset, 189 (Letter of the Minister of War, dated at Dunkirk, April 29,
1793).--Archives Nationales," BB, 16, 703. (Parisian national guard staff major-general, order
of the day, letter of citizen Férat, commanding at Ostend, to the Minister of War, March 19,
1793): "Since we have had the gendarmes with us at Ostend there is nothing but disturbance
every day. They attack the officers and volunteers, take the liberty of pulling off epaulettes
and talk only of cutting and slashing, and declare that they recognize no superior being equals
with everybody, and that they will do as they please. Those who are ordered to arrest them
are chased and attacked with saber cuts and pistols]

[Footnote 3247: C. Rousset, 20 (Letter of General Wimpfen, Dec. 30, 1791).--"Souvenirs" of
General Pelleport, pp.7 and 8.]

[Footnote 3248: C. Rousset, 45 (Report of General Wimpfen, Jan. 20, 1792).--Letter of General
Biron, Aug. 23, 1792.]

[Footnote 3249: C. Rousset, 47, 48.--"Archives Nationales," F7, 3249. Official report of the
municipality of Saint-Maxence, Jan. 21, 1792.--F 7, 3275. Official report of the municipality
of Châtellerault, Dec. 27, 1791.--F7, 3285 and 3286--F7, 3213. Letter of Servan, Minister of
War, to Roland, June 12, 1792: "I frequently receive, as well as yourself and the Minister
of Justice, complaints against the national volunteers. They commit the most reprehensible
offenses daily in places where they are quartered, and through which they pass on their way
to their destination."--Ibid., Letter of Duranthon, Minister of Justice, May 5: "These occurrences
are repeated, under more or less aggravating circumstances, in all the departments."]

[Footnote 3250: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3193. Official report of the commissaries of the
department of Aveyron, April 4, 1792. "Among the pillagers and incendiaries of the chateaux
of Privesac, Vaureilles, Péchins, and other threatened mansions, were a number of recruits
who had already taken the road to Rhodez to join their respective regiments." Nothing remains
of the château of Privesac but a heap of ruins. The houses in the village "are filled to over
flowing with pillaged articles, and the inhabitants have divided the owners' animals amongst
themselves."--Comte de Seilhac, "Scènes et portraits de la Révolution dans le bas Limousin,"
P.305. Pillage of the châteaux of Saint-Jéal and Seilhac, April 12, 1792, by the 3rd battalion
of la Corrèze, commanded by Bellegarde, a former domestic in the château.]

[Footnote 3251: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3270. Deliberation of the council-general of the
commune of Roye, Oct. 8, 1792 (passage of two divisions of Parisian gendarmes). "The inhabitants
and municipal officers were by turns the sport of their insolence and brutality, constantly
threatened in case of refusal with having their heads cut off, and seeing the said gendarmes,
especially the gunners, with naked sabers in their hands, always threatening. The citizen mayor
especially was treated most outrageously by the said gunners... forcing him to dance on the
Place d'armes, to which they resorted with violins and where they remained until midnight,
rudely pushing and hauling him about, treating him as an aristocrat, clapping the red cap on
his head, with constant threats of cutting it off and that of every aristocrat in the town,
a threat they swore to carry out the next day, openly stating, especially two or three amongst
them, that they had massacred the Paris prisoners on the 2nd of September, and that it cost
them nothing to massacre."]

[Footnote 3252: Summaries, in the order of their date or locality, and similar to those about
to be placed before the reader, sometimes occur in these files. I pursue the same course as
the clerk, in conformity with Roland's methodical habits.]

[Footnote 3253: Aug. 17, 1792 (Moniteur, XIII, 383, report of M. Emmery).]

[Footnote 3254: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3271. Letter of the administrators of Tarn, July 21.]

[Footnote 3255: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3234. Report of the municipal officers of Clairac,
July 20.-Letter of the syndic-attorney of Lot-et-Garonne, Sept. 16.]

[Footnote 3256: Mercure de France, number for July 28, (letters from Bordeaux).]

[Footnote 3257: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3275. Letter of the administrators of Haute-Vienne,
July 28 (with official reports).]

[Footnote 3258: '"Archives Nationales," F7, 3223. Letter of the directory of the district of
Neuville to the department-administrators, Sept 18.]

[Footnote 3259: "Archives Nationales," report of the administrators of the department and council-general
of the commune of Orleans, Sept 16 and 17. (The disarmament had been effected through the decrees
of Aug.26 and Sept. 2.)]

[Footnote 3260: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3249. Letter of the lieutenant of the gendarmerie
of Dampierre, Sept 23 (with official report dated Sept 19).]

[Footnote 3261: "Archives Nationales," draft of a letter by Roland, Oct 4, and others of the
same kind.--Letter of the municipal officers of Ray, Sept 24.--Letter of M. Desdouits, proprietor,
Sept 30.--Letter of the permanent council of Aigle, Oct 1, etc.]

[Footnote 3262: "Archives Nationales," Letter of the administrators of the Orne department,
Sept 7.]

[Footnote 3263: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 337 (Sept. 6).]

[Footnote 3264: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3265. Letter of the lieutenant-general of the gendarmerie,
Aug. 30.--Official report of the Rouen municipality on the riot of Aug. 29.--Letters of the
department-administrators, Sept 18 and Oct. 11.--Letter of the same, Oct 13, etc.--Letter of
David, cultivator and department administrator Oct 11.]

[Footnote 3265: Albert Babean, "Letters of a deputy of the municipality of Troyes to the army
of Dumuriez," p. 8.--(Sainte-Menehould, Sept. 7, 1792): "Our troops burn with a desire to meet
the enemy. The massacre reported to have taken place in Paris does not discourage them; on
the contrary, they are glad to know that suspected persons in the interior are got rid of."]

[Footnote 3266: Moore, I.338 (Sept. 4). At Clermont, the murder of a fish-dealer, killed for
insulting the Breton volunteers.--401 (Sept. 7), the son of the post-master at Saint-Amand
is killed on suspicion of communicating with the enemy.--"Archives Nationales," F7; 3249. Letter
of the district-administrators of Senlis, Oct. 31 (Aug. 15). At Chantilly, M. Pigean is assassinated
in the midst of 1,200 persons.--C. Rousset, p.84 (Sept. 21), lieutenant-colonel Imonnier is
assassinated at Châlons-sur-Marne.--Mortimer-Ternaux, IV. 172. Four Prussian deserters are
murdered at Rethel, Oct. 5, by the Parisian volunteers]

[Footnote 3267: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 378, 594 and following pages.]

[Footnote 3268: Lacretelle, "Dix années d'épreuves," p. 58. Description of Liancourt.--"Archives
Nationales," F7, 3249. Letter of the department-administrators of the Eure, Sept. 11 (with
official report of the Gisors municipality, Sept 4).--Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 550.]

[Footnote 3269: "Archives Nationales," F7, 4394. Letter of Roland to the convention, Oct. 31
(with a copy of the documents sent by the department of the Nord on the events of Oct. 10 and 11).]

[Footnote 3270: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3191. Official report of the municipality of Charleville;
Sept. 4, and letter, Sept. 6.--Moniteur, XIII. 742, number for Sept. 21,1792 (letter of Sept.
17, On the Parisian volunteers of Marshal Lückner's army). "The Parisian volunteers again threatened
to have several heads last evening, among others those of the marshal and his aids. He had
threatened to return some deserters to their regiments. At this the men exclaimed that the
ancient régime no longer existed, that brothers should not be treated in that way, and that
he general should be arrested. Several of them had already seized the horse's bridle."]

[Footnote 3271: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3185. Documents relating to the case of M. de Fossés.
(The pillage takes place Sept. 4.)]

[Footnote 3272: Letter of Goulard, mayor of Coucy, Oct. 4.--Letter of Osselin, notary, Nov.
7. "Threats of setting fire to M. de Fossés' two remaining farm-houses are made."--Letter of
M. de Fossés, Jan. 28, 1793. He states that he has entered no complaint, and if anybody has
done so for him he is much displeased. "A suit might place me in the greatest danger, from
my knowledge of the state of the public mind in Coucy, and of what the guilty have done and
will do to affect the minds of the people in the seventeen communes concerned in the devastation."]

[Footnote 3273: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3249 letter of M. de Gouy to Roland, Sept. 21. (An
admirable letter, which, if copied entire, would show the character of the gentleman of 1789.
Lots of heart, many illusions and much verbosity.) The first attack was made Sept. 4 and the
second on the 13th.]

[Footnote 3274: Most of the domiciliary visits end in similar damages. For example, ("Archives
Nationales," F7, 3265, letter of the administrators of Seine-Inferieure, Sept. 18, 1792). Visit
to the château de Catteville, Sept. 7, by the national guard of the neighborhood. "The national
guard get drunk, break the furniture to pieces, and fire repeated volleys at the windows and
mirrors; the château is a complete ruin." The municipal officers on attempting to interfere
are nearly killed.]

[Footnote 3275: The letter ends with the following: "No, never will I abandon the French soil!"
He is guillotined at Paris, Thermidor 5, year II., as an accomplice in the pretended prison-plot.]

[Footnote 3276: Raid on Protestants under Louis XIV. (SR).]

[Footnote 3277: '"Archives Nationales," Letter of the Oise administrators, Sept. 12 and 15.--Letter
of the syndic-attorney of the department, Sept. 23.--Letter of the administrators, Sept. 20
(on Chantilly). "The vast treasures of this domain are being plundered." In the forest of Hez
and in the park belonging to M. de Fitz-James, now national property, "the finest trees are
sold on the spot, cut down, and carried off."--F7, 3268, Letter of the overseer of the national
domains at Rambouillet, Oct. 31. Woods devastated "at a loss of more than 100,000 crowns since
August 10."--"The agitators who preach liberty to citizens in the rural districts are the very
ones who excite the disorders with which the country is menaced. They provoke the demand for
a partition of property, with all the accompanying threats."]

[Footnote 3278: Albert Babeau, I.504 (Aug.20).]

[Footnote 3279: Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 322 (Sept 4).]

[Footnote 3280: Mortimer-Ternaux, III.325.--"Archives Nationales," F7, 3239. Official report
of the municipality of Rheims, Sept 6.]

[Footnote 3281: "Archives Nationales," F7, 4394. Correspondence of the ministers in 1792 and
1793. Lists presented by Roland to the convention, on the part of various districts and departments,
containing the names of priests demanding passports to go abroad, those who have gone without
passports, and of sick or aged priests in the department asylums.]

[Footnote 3282: Albert Babeau, I. 515-517. Guillon de Montléon, I. 120. At Lyons after the
10th of August the unsworn conceal themselves; the municipality offers them passports; many
who come for them are incarcerated; others receive a passport with a mark on it which serves
for their recognition on the road, and which excites against them the fury of the volunteers.
"A majority of the soldiers filled the air with their cries of 'Death to kings and priests!'
"--Sauzay, III. ch. IX., and especially p. 193: "M. Pescheu; while running along the road from
Belfort to Porentruy, is seen by a captain of the volunteers, riding along the same road with
other officers; demanding his gun, he aimed at M. Pescheur and shot him."]

[Footnote 3283: "Histoire de Chalons-sur-Marne et de ses monuments," by L. Barbat, pp. 420, 425]

[Footnote 3284: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3207. Letter of the directory of the Côte d'Or,
Aug. 28 and Sept. 26. Address of the Beaune municipality, Sept. 2. Letter of M. Jean Sallier,
Oct. 9: "Allow me to appeal to you for justice and to interest yourself in behalf of my brother,
myself, and five servants, who on the 14th of September last, at the order of the municipality
of La Roche-en-Bressy, where we have lived for three years, were arrested by the national guard
of Saulieu, and, first imprisoned here in this town, were on the 18th transferred to Semur,
no reason for our detention being given, and where we have in vain demanded a trial from the
directory of the district, which body, making no examination or inquiry into our case, sent
us on the 25th, at great expense, to Dijon, where the department has imprisoned us again without,
as before, giving any reason therefore."--The directory of the department writes "the communes
of the towns and of the country arrest persons suspected by them, and instead of caring for
these themselves, send them to the district"--Such arbitrary imprisonment multiply towards
the end of 1792 and early in 1793. The commissaries of the convention arrest at Sedan 55 persons
in one day: at Nancy, 104 in three weeks; at Arras, more than 1,000 in two months; in the Jura,
4,000 in two months. At Lons-le-Saulnier all the nobles with their domestics, at Aix all the
inhabitants of one quarter without exception are put in prison. (De Sybel, II. 305.)]

[Footnote 3285:"Archives Nationales," F7, 3276. Letters of the administrators of the Yonne,
Aug. 20 and 21.-Ibid., F7, 3255. Letter of the commissary, Bonnemant, Sept. 22.--Mortimer-Ternaux,
III. 338.--Lavalette, "Mémoires," I.100.]

[Footnote 3286: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3,255. Letter of the district administrator of Roanne,
Aug. 18. Fourteen volunteers of the canton of Néronde betake themselves to Chenevoux, a mansion
belonging to M. Dulieu, a supposed émigré. They exact 200 francs from the keeper of' the funds
of the house under penalty of death, which he gives them.--Letter of the same. Sept. 1. "Every
day repressive means are non-existent. Juges-de-paix before whom complaints are made dare not
report them, nor try citizens who cause themselves to be feared. Witnesses dare not give testimony
for fear of being maltreated or pillaged by the criminals."--Letter of the same, Aug. 22.--Official
report of the municipality of Charlieu, Sept. 9, on the destruction of the land registry books.
(Roland replies with consternation and says that there must be a prosecution.)--Official report
of the 9th of September, and letter of the municipality, Sept. 11.--Memorandum of the officers
of the Royal-Pologne regiment, Sept. 7.--Letter of M. Perigny, father-in-law of one of the
officers slain, Sept. 19.--Mortimer-Ternaux, III. 342.--Guillon de Montléon, I. 124.--Balleyder,
"Histoire du peuple de Lyon," 91.]

[Footnote 3289: "Archives Nationales," Letter of Danton, Oct. 3.]

[Footnote 3290: Decius, Roman emperor from 248 to 251 famous for having persecuted the Christians.
He was unable to tolerate their refusal to join in communal corporate pagan observances. He
insisted that they do so and once they had done it, a Certificate of Sacrifice (libellus),
was issued. (SR).]

[Footnote 3291: "Etude sur Madame Roland," by Dauban, 82. Letter of Madame Roland to Bosc,
July 26, 1798. "You busy yourselves with a municipality and allow heads to escape which will
devise new horrors. You are mere children; your enthusiasm is merely a straw bonfire! If the
National Assembly does not try two illustrious heads in regular form or some generous Décius
strike them down, you are all lost.--" Ibid.,, May 17, 1790: "Our rural districts are much
dissatisfied with the decree on feudal privileges... A reform is necessary, in which more châteaux
must be burnt. It would not be a serious evil were there not some danger of the enemies of
the Revolution profiting by these discontents to lessen the confidence of the people in the
National Assembly."--Sept. 27, 1790. "The worst party is successful; it is forgotten that insurrection
is the most sacred of duties when the country is in danger."--Jan.24, 1791. "The wise man shuts
his eyes to the grievances or weaknesses of the private individual; but the citizen should
show no mercy, even to his father, when the public welfare is at stake."]

[Footnote 3292: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3202. Report of the commissary, member of the Cantal
directory, Oct. 24. On the 16th of October at Chaudesaigues the volunteers break open a door
and then kill one of their comrades who opposes them, whom the commissary tries to save. The
mayor of the place, in uniform, leads them to the dwellings of aristocrats, urging them on
to pillage; they enter a number of houses by force and exact wine. The next day at Saint-Urcize
they break into the house of the former curé, devastate or pillage it, and "sell his furniture
to different persons in the neighborhood." The same treatment is awarded to sieur Vaissier,
mayor, and to lady Lavalette; their cellars are forced open, barrels of wine are taken to the
public square, and drinking takes place from the tap. After this "the volunteers go in squads
into the neighboring parishes and compel the inhabitants to give them money or effects." The
commissary and municipal officers of St. Urcize who tried to mediate were nearly killed and
were saved only through the efforts of a detachment of regular cavalry. As to the Jacobin mayor
of Chaudesaigues, it was natural that he should preach pillage; on the sale of the effects
of the nuns "he kept all bidders away, and had things knocked down to him for almost nothing."]

[Footnote 3293: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3217. Letter or Castanet, an old gendarme, Nîmes,
Aug.21.--Letter of M. Griolet, syndic-attorney of the Gard, Sept. 8: "I beg, sir, that this
letter may be considered as confidential; I pray you do not compromise me. "--Letter of M.
Gilles, juge-de-paix at Rocquemaure, Oct.31 (with official reports).]

[Footnote 3294: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3227. Letter of the municipal officers of Tullins,
Sept. 8.]

