The tradition that Hanmer wrote the essay had its highly dubious origin in a single unsupported
statement by Sir Henry Bunbury, made over one hundred years after the work was written, in
his Correspondence of Sir Thomas Hanmer, with a Memoir of His Life (London, 1838), to the effect
that he had reason to believe that Hanmer was the author. The evidence against this bare surmise
is such, however, as to compel assent to Professor Lounsbury's judgment that Hanmer's authorship
"is so improbable that it may be called impossible" (Shakespeare as a Dramatic Artist, 60).
I have elsewhere set down reasons for my own belief that Hanmer could have had nothing to do
with the composition of the essay, arguing on grounds of ideas, attitudes, style, and other
internal evidence ("Thomas Hanmer and the Anonymous Essay on Hamlet," MLN61 [1934], 493-498).
Without going over the case again, I wish here merely to reaffirm my conviction that Hanmer
was not the author, and to say that it would seem that the difference in styles and the attitude
of Anonymous toward Pope and Theobald are alone convincing proof that Hanmer had no part in
the Remarks. Hanmer's style is stiff, formal, pedantic; the style of the essay is free, easy,
direct, more in the Addison manner. Hanmer was a disciple of Pope's, and in his Preface to
his Shakespeare and in his edition as a whole shows allegiance to Pope. Anonymous, on the contrary,
decisively, though urbanely, rejects Pope's edition in favor of Theobald's text and notes.
The fact that Theobald was at that time still the king of dunces in the Dunciad, adds to the
improbability that an admirer of Pope's, as Hanmer certainly was, would pay Theobald such honor.

Most careful scholars of our day go no further on the question of authorship than to note that
the essay has been "attributed" to Hanmer; some, like Professor Stoll, seem to have dropped
the idea that Hanmer was in any way connected with it and safely speak of "the author" or "the
anonymous author"; I recall only one case in recent years of an all-out, incautious assignment
of the authorship to Hanmer ("Hamlet among the Mechanists," Shakespeare Association Bulletin
17 [July, 1942], 138). It would seem advisable to follow Stoll's lead and ignore Hanmer entirely.

The anonymous essay has been of continued interest to students of Shakespeare. Echoes of its
ideas if not its words appear in such later critics of the eighteenth century as Gentleman,
Steevens, Richardson, and Morgann; in 1790 Malone copied out some two pages of the best of
it for publication; and in 1864 the whole was reprinted, a not too usual thing for an obscure
eighteenth century pamphlet. Present-day students of Shakespeare, among them D.N. Smith, Lounsbury,
Babcock, Lawrence, and Stoll have treated the essay with unvarying respect. Remarking that
it anticipates some of Johnson's arguments, Smith calls it in general a "well-written, interesting
book" greatly superior to the anonymous essay on Hamlet of 1752 (Eighteenth Century Essays
on Shakespeare, xxn). Lawrence has recently praised a selected passage for its "wise words
... which may be pondered with profit" (Hamlet and Fortinbras, PMLA61 [1946], 697). And Stoll,
who has obviously read the book with care, has found in one of its statements the very "beginning
of historical criticism" (PQ 24 [1945], 291; Shakespeare Studies, 212n.), and has elsewhere
seen much to commend in it.

Reasons for such attention are not difficult to find; for the Remarks is both intrinsically
and historically an important piece of criticism. It is still worth reading for more than one
passage of discerning analysis and apt comment on scene, speech, or character, and for certain
not unfruitful excursions into the field of general aesthetics; while historically it is a
sort of landmark in Shakespearian literature. Standing chronologically almost midway between
Dryden and Johnson, Kames, and Richardson, the Remarks shows decisively the direction in which
criticism, under the steadily mounting pressure of liberal, empirical thought, is traveling.
This little unpretentious book gathers into itself, either in faint adumbration or in fairly
advanced form, the tendencies in method and ideas that are to remake criticism in the eighteenth
century. There are reflected here the growing distrust of the "Rules" and the deepening faith
in mind as the measure and in imagination as the instrument. There is also added recognition
of the integrity of effects as a factor in judging literature.

Anonymous is an earlier member of the School of Taste. He is none-the-less concerned with firm
principles by which to justify his acceptances and rejections. His announced over-all rule
is conformity to "Reason and Nature"--old words that he uses in the newer way. But he is also
handily equipped with a stock of stubbornly conservative principles, reaching at times the
status of bias, that serve to hold his taste in balance and effectively check unrestrained
admiration.

This conservative side of Anonymous must not pass unnoticed, for it is the part of him that
most closely identifies him with his forebears and so throws his more original, independent
side into stronger relief. Our author is, not unexpectedly, an invariable moralist; is throughout
a stickler for dignity; is sensitive to absurdities, improprieties, and slips in decorum; will
have no truck with tragi-comedy in any of its forms. He hates puns and bombast, demands refinement
in speech and restraint in manners. He regards Hamlet's speeches to Ophelia in the Player scene
as a violation of propriety, is shocked by the lack of decency in the representation of Ophelia's
madness, finds Hamlet's frequent levity and the buffoonery of Polonius alike regrettable --Shakespeare's
favorite foible, he feels, is "that of raising a laugh." The introduction of Fortinbras and
his army on the stage is "an Absurdity"; the grave-diggers' scene is "very unbecoming to tragedy";
the satire on the "Children of the Chapel" is not allowable in this kind of piece.

In all these things Anonymous is an upholder of the tradition of true, restrained wit. But
unlike some of his contemporaries, he has a formula for discounting faults. "But we should
be very cautious in finding Fault with Men of such exalted Genius as our Author certainly was,
lest we should blame them when in reality the Fault lies in our own slow Conceptions ..." This
is the language of tolerance, a tolerance that can overlook faults for the sake of greater
beauties--one of the distinct marks of the new criticism to which the Remarks belongs.

The essay starts out in a boldly challenging tone. Criticism, says the author, has been badly
abused: it has been regarded as an excuse for the ill-natured to find fault or for the better-natured
to eulogize. But true criticism has for its end "to set in the best light all Beauties, and
to touch upon Defects no more than is necessary." Beyond this it seeks to set up a right taste
for the age. His own purpose is to examine a great tragedy "according to the Rules of Reason
and Nature, without having any regard to those Rules established by arbitrary Dogmatizing Critics
..." More specifically, he proposes to show the why of our pleasure in this piece: "And as
to those things which charm by a certain secret Force, and strike us we know not how, or why;
I believe it will not be disagreeable, if I shew to everyone the Reason why they are pleas'd
..." This, it need hardly be observed, is all pretty much in the vein of Addison, whom the
author extols and whose papers on Paradise Lost, he tells us, have furnished a model for the
present undertaking. Throughout his criticism Addison had deprecated mere fault-finding and
had urged the positive approach of emphasis on beauties. With such ideas in mind, Anonymous
proceeds to study Hamlet, in what is probably the first act-by-act, scene-by-scene analysis
of a play in English, according to his understanding of the principles of the "new criticism"
as he finds them illustrated in Addison's theory and practice.

Having brushed aside the "fantastick Rules" of the conventional critics, he proceeds to apply
his laws of "Reason and Nature" as criteria by which to test the validity of Shakespeare's
effects and to discover the cause of these effects. The results he achieves are in part conditioned
by his interpretation of his basic terms. Reason and Nature had been invoked by many previous
critics; but to Anonymous these words are not what they were to Boileau and Pope. They particularly
have nothing, or next to nothing, to do with the Deistic concept of a universal nature of external
diversity but of an internal rational and universal order, which art reveals and to which art
at its best conforms. To Anonymous, who in this is following the lead of the Hobbian school,
the nature that is the norm by which Shakespeare is to be judged is merely human nature, used
as Whately, Richardson, and Morgann are to use it later, and as Johnson uses it when he argues
that there is an appeal open from custom to nature. Anonymous' interest is in the way the mind
works and the way people customarily act. So also when he talks about reason, he is thinking
only of what is acceptable to a logical, healthy mind. He has no thought of identifying nature
or reason with the traditional Rules or with Homer. On the contrary, he is willing to set both
of them quite apart from, or even in opposition to the Rules (with a qualifying concession
that they may sometimes meet), and he definitely renounces obligation to show that Shakespeare
bears any relation to the ancients whatever, denying at the same time the value of the customary
shows of learning in discussing his work. For Shakespeare apparently drew little from the authors
of antiquity: "Nature was our great Poet's Mistress; her alone has he followed as his Conductress."

Such a view is emancipatory. Free the critic from the idea that nature and the ancients are
the same and that reason and the laws ascribed to the ancients are identical, and he is ready
to look at modern literature with an independent judgment and to see what it is like and what
it is worth in and by itself. Release the critic from the necessity of regarding nature as
universal order and reason as the directive of this order, and, whatever the loss in philosophic
concept, he is ready for a more specific and particular investigation that turns its attention
to basic human behavior and the basic ways of the mind as the criterion by which to judge artistic
representation. No need now for quaint parallels with the ancients to justify modern practice,
nor for scholarly arguments to prove learning; all that is required is to prove adherence to
common nature and common rationality. This is the ground upon which Anonymous stands, and it
is the ground upon which Morgann is to stand when he gives us the "Falstaff of Nature," and
Johnson when he presents Shakespeare as the dramatist who is "above all modern writers the
poet of nature," whose "persons act and speak by the influence of those general passions by
which all minds are agitated," whose "drama is the mirror of life," in which his readers may
find "human sentiments in human language," whose practices are to be judged not by appeal to
the rules of criticism, but by reference to the author's design and the great law of nature
and reason.

This position opens the way for further advances. Thus, beginning with the assumption that
the mind of the spectator or the reader is the chief arbiter in such matters, Anonymous gives
us what is perhaps the most enlightened comment on probability and illusion to be found in
the period between Dryden and Coleridge. His test for probability is what the imagination will
readily accept; and the imagination, he says, will bear a "strong Imposition." Reason, to be
sure, demands that actions and speeches shall be "natural"--but natural within the framework
of the situation and character as established by the dramatist on the imaginative level. The
author's words on illusion recall the passage in Dryden about reason's suffering itself to
be "hoodwinked" by imaginative presentation, foreshadow Coleridge's "willing suspension of
disbelief," and directly suggest Johnson's passages on the subject. Experience will show, he
says, "that no Dramatick Piece can affect us but by the Delusion of our Imagination; which,
to taste true and real Pleasures at such Representations, must undergo a very great Imposition."
For example, on our stage all nations speak English, and shock no one; also the actors are
recognized as actors and not as the persons represented, and the stage as a stage and not Rome,
or Denmark. Without such imposition "farewell all Dramatick Performances."

And then, in continuation of this pre-Johnsonian (and pre-Coleridgean) argument he goes on
to say that delusion must be accepted, never, however, in defiance of our reason but with the
approval of our reason. That Shakespeare's plays create delusion with the assistance of reason
is proved by the success they have so long enjoyed. Sublimity of sentiments, exalted diction,
and "in short all the Charms of his Poetry, far outweigh any little absurdities in his Plots."
He knew how to work up "great and moving Circumstances in such a Way as to affect our Passions
strongly." The word used here throughout is delusion, but the sense, just as is largely the
case with Johnson, is illusion--not a demand for such a verisimilitude as will deceive, but
for such representation as will lead the imagination to voluntary, pleasurable acceptance.

Likewise, when Anonymous considers unity his emphasis, like Johnson's and Hurd's, is no longer
on the mechanical unities but on unity of design. "When Shakespeare's plan is understood most
of the criticisms of Rymer and Voltaire vanish away," Johnson was to write some thirty years
later. Anonymous holds steadily for the integrity of Shakespeare's plan in Hamlet. Of Act I,
iii he says, "Concerning the Design of this scene, we shall find it is necessary towards the
whole plot of the Play"; he speaks of I, iv as an "important Scene, on which turns the Whole
Play"; the killing of Polonious, he explains, "was in Conformity to the Plan Shakespeare built
his Play upon"; and finally, of the piece as a whole, he asserts that "there is not one Scene
but what some way or other conduces toward the Denoument of the Whole; and thus the Unity of
Action is indisputably kept up by everything tending to what we may call the main Design, and
it all hangs by Consequence so close together, that no Scene can be omitted, without Prejudice
to the Whole." When one recalls that the idea of unity of design as evolved in Thomas Warton,
Hurd, and Johnson was the intermediate step on the way to a full theory of organic unity we
see the importance of such passages in the forward march of criticism.

