Despite his beauty, the Blue Mountain Lory is not a desirable bird to keep, as he requires
great care. A female which survived six years in an aviary, laying several eggs, though kept
singly, was fed on canary seed, maize, a little sugar, raw beef and carrots. W. Gedney seems
to have been peculiarly happy in his specimens, remarking, "But for the terribly sudden death
which so often overtakes these birds, they would be the most charming feathered pets that a
lady could possess, having neither the power nor inclination to bite savagely." The same writer's
recommendation to feed this Lory exclusively upon soft food, in which honey forms a great part,
probably accounts for his advice to those "whose susceptible natures would be shocked" by the
sudden death of their favorite, not to become the owner of a Blue Mountain Lory.

Like all the parrot family these Lories breed in hollow boughs, where the female deposits from
three to four white eggs, upon which she sits for twenty-one days. The young from the first
resemble their parents closely, but are a trifle less brilliantly colored.

They are very active and graceful, but have an abominable shriek. The noise is said to be nearly
as disagreeable as the plumage is beautiful. They are very quarrelsome and have to be kept
apart from the other parrots, which they will kill. Other species of birds however, are not
disturbed by them. It is a sort of family animosity. They have been bred in captivity.

The feathers of the head and neck are long and very narrow and lie closely together; the claws
are strong and hooked, indicating their tree climbing habits. Their incessant activity and
amusing ways make these birds always interesting to watch.

THE RED WING BLACK BIRD.

The Bird of Society.

The much abused and persecuted Red Wing Black Bird is found throughout North America, from
the Atlantic to the Pacific; and it breeds more or less abundantly wherever found. In New England
it is generally migratory, though instances are on record where a few have been known to remain
throughout the winter in Massachusetts. Passing, in January, through the lower counties of
Virginia, one frequently witnesses the aerial evolutions of great numbers of these birds. Sometimes
they appear as if driven about like an enormous black cloud carried before the wind, varying
every moment in shape. Sometimes they rise suddenly from the fields with a noise like thunder,
while the glittering of innumerable wings of the brightest vermillion, amid the black cloud,
occasion a very striking effect. At times the whole congregated multitude will suddenly alight
in some detached grove and commence one general concert, that can plainly be distinguished
at the distance of more than two miles. With the Redwings the whole winter season seems one
continued carnival. They find abundant food in the old fields of rice, buckwheat and grain,
and much of their time is spent in aerial movements, or in grand vocal performances.

The Redwings, for their nest, always select either the borders of streams or low marshy situations,
amongst thick bunches of reeds. One nest was found built on a slender sapling at the distance
of fourteen feet from the ground. The nest was pensile, like that of the Baltimore Oriole.

They have from one to three or more broods in a season, according to locality.

In the grain growing states they gather in immense swarms and commit havoc, and although they
are shot in great numbers, and though their ranks are thinned by the attacks of hawks, it seems
to have but little effect upon the survivors.

On the other hand, these Black Birds more than compensate the farmer for their mischief by
the benefit they confer in the destruction of grub worms, caterpillars, and various kinds of
larvae, the secret and deadly enemies of vegetation. It has been estimated the number of insects
destroyed by these birds in a single season, in the United States, to be twelve thousand millions.

The eggs average about an inch in length. They are oval in shape, have a light bluish ground,
and are marbled, lined and blotched with markings of light and dark purple and black.

BLACKBIRD.

THE BIRD OF SOCIETY.

The blackbird loves to be one of a great flock. He talks, sings or scolds from morning until
night. He cannot keep still. He will only stay alone with his family a few months in the summer.
That is the reason he is called the "Bird of Society." When he is merry, he gaily sings, "Conk-quer-ree."
When he is angry or frightened he screams, "Chock! Chock!" When he is flying or bathing he
gives a sweet note which sounds like ee-u-u. He can chirp--chick, check, chuck, to his little
ones as softly as any other bird. But only his best friends ever hear his sweetest tones, for
the Blackbirds do not know how to be polite. They all talk at once. That is why most people
think they only scream and chatter. Did you ever hear the blackbirds in the cornfields? If
the farmers thought about it perhaps they would feel that part of every corn crop belongs to
the Blackbirds. When the corn is young, the farmer cannot see the grubs which are eating the
young plants. The Blackbirds can. They feed them to their babies--many thousands in a day.
That is the way the crops are saved for the farmer. But he never thinks of that. Later when
the Blackbirds come for their share of the corn the farmer says, "No, they shall not have my
corn. I must stop that quickly." Perhaps the Blackbirds said the same thing to the grubs in
the spring. It is hard to have justice for everyone.

In April the Blackbird and his mate leave the noisy company. They seek a cosy home near the
water where they can be quiet until August. They usually choose a swampy place among low shrubs
and rushes. Here in the deep nest of coarse grass, moss and mud the mother bird lays her five
eggs. They are very pretty--light blue with purple and black markings. Their friends say this
is the best time to watch the blackbirds. In the flock they are all so much alike we cannot
tell one from another. You would like to hear of some of the wise things Blackbirds do when
they are tame.

One friend of the birds turned her home into a great open bird cage. Her chair was the favorite
perch of her birds. She never kept them one minute longer than they wanted to stay. Yet her
home was always full. This was Olive Thorne Miller. If you care to, you might ask mother to
get "Bird Ways" and read you what she says about this "bird of society" and the other birds
of this book.

THE AMERICAN RED BIRD.

American Red Birds are among our most common cage birds, and are very generally known in Europe,
numbers of them having been carried over both to France and England. Their notes are varied
and musical; many of them resembling the high notes of a fife, and are nearly as loud. They
are in song from March to September, beginning at the first appearance of dawn and repeating
successively twenty or thirty times, and with little intermission, a favorite strain.

The sprightly figure and gaudy plumage of the Red Bird, his vivacity, strength of voice, and
actual variety of note, and the little expense with which he is kept, will always make him
a favorite.

This species is more numerous to the east of the great range of the Alleghenies, but is found
in Pennsylvania and Ohio, and is numerous in the lower parts of the Southern States. In January
and February they have been found along the roadsides and fences, hovering together in half
dozens, associating with snow birds, and various kinds of sparrows. In the northern states
they are migratory, and in the southern part of Pennsylvania they reside during the whole year,
frequenting the borders of rivulets, in sheltered hollows, covered with holly, laurel, and
other evergreens. They love also to reside in the vicinity of fields of Indian corn, a grain
that constitutes their chief and favorite food. The seeds of apples, cherries, and other fruit
are also eaten by them, and they are accused of destroying bees.

Early in May the Red Bird begins to prepare his nest, which is very often fixed in a holly,
cedar or laurel bush. A pair of Red Birds in Ohio returned for a number of years to build their
nest in a honeysuckle vine under a portico. They were never disturbed and never failed to rear
a brood of young. The nest was constructed of small twigs, dry weeds, slips of vine bark, and
lined with stalks of fine grass. Four eggs of brownish olive were laid, and they usually raised
two broods in a season.

In confinement they fade in color, but if well cared for, will live to a considerable age.
They are generally known by the names: Red Bird, Virginia Red Bird, Virginia Nightingale, and
Crested Red Bird. It is said that the female often sings nearly as well as the male.

THE REDBIRDS.

    Two Redbirds came in early May,
    Flashing like rubies on the way;
    Their joyous notes awoke the day,
    And made all nature glad and gay.

    Thrice welcome! crested visitants;
    Thou doest well to seek our haunts;
    The bounteous vine, by thee possessed,
    From prying eyes shall keep thy nest.

    Sing to us in the early dawn;
    'Tis then thy scarlet throats have drawn
    Refreshing draughts from drops of dew,
    The enchanting concert to renew.

    No plaintive notes, we ween, are thine;
    They gurgle like a royal wine;
    They cheer, rejoice, they quite outshine
    Thy neighbor's voice, tho' it's divine.

    Free as the circumambient air
    Do thou remain, a perfect pair,
    To come once more when Proserpine
    Shall swell the buds of tree and vine.
                                 --C. C. M.

THE RED BIRD.

    Is it because he wears a red hat,
      That we call him the Cardinal Bird?
    Or is it because his voice is so rich
      That scarcely a finer is heard?

    'Tis neither, but this--I've guessed it, I'm sure--
    His dress is a primary color of Nature.
    It blends with the Oriole's golden display,
    And the garment of Blue Bird completes the array.
                                 --C. C. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

 ATTEND THE BEST. Thorough courses in BUSINESS, SHORTHAND and ENGLISH.
 Day and Evening Sessions. Write for catalogue mailed FREE.

                                  Address GONDRING & VIRDEN, Principals.

 Please mention "BIRDS" when you write to Advertisers.

 WRITE FOR SAMPLES
 AND PRICES OF
 COMMENCEMENT
 PROGRAMS

         MIZE & STEARNS
         PRINTERS AND BINDERS
         CHICAGO

 Telephone Harrison 560      346 to 350 Dearborn Street

                                            CATALOGUES
                                            PERIODICALS
                                            EMBOSSING
                                            FINE STATIONERY

 SAM R. CARTER, President.        GUSTAV ZEESE, Secretary.

 CHICAGO Colortype COMPANY
 PHOTOGRAPHY IN NATURAL COLORS

 ART COLOR... PRINTERS and ENGRAVERS,

 Office and Works:
    1205-1213 Roscoe Street.      CHICAGO.

             PAINTINGS,
             WATER COLORS,
             LITHOGRAPHS,

 and Articles of every description faithfully reproduced
       IN THEIR NATURAL COLORS.

 The Illustrations in this Magazine were engraved and printed by us.

 WHAT WE WILL
 SELL YOU FOR $12.00

 #4 FEET LONG, 2 FEET 5 INCHES WIDE.#

 Oak, Extension Slide, Finished back Quarter-sawed
 Sycamore Pigeon Holes,
 Combination Lock on Drawers,
 Spring Lock with two keys on Curtain.
 GUARANTEED PERFECT.
 Can not be duplicated for less than $20.00.

 Securely Packed and put on board cars for
 $12.00 and shipped C. O. D. with privilege of examination.

 What POINTS do You Want in a COPYING Machine?

 These points {You want RAPIDITY        Copies one hundred letters in
 are all                                  seven minutes.
 contained in {You want ECONOMY         Save copy books, blotters, cloths,
 Anderson's                               baths, etc.
 Automatic    {You want EFFICIENCY      It makes the most perfect copies.
 Copying      {You want UNIFORMITY      One copy the same as another.
 Machine.     {You want SIMPLICITY      Easy to learn, easy to run; it's
                                          simplicity itself.
              {You want DURABILITY      Well constructed of selected
                                          metals.
              {You want ATTRACTIVENESS  An ornament to any office.

 FAST--DURABLE--SIMPLE.

 SAVES TIME, MATERIAL, MONEY.
   SAVES ITS COST EVERY YEAR BY ECONOMY IN COPYING PAPER.
     EVERY BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL MAN NEEDS IT.

 Will allow for your old screw press. SEND FOR TRADE PROPOSITION. Address

    ANDERSON AUTOMATIC COPYING MACHINE CO.
                      910 Monadnock Block, CHICAGO.

 Please mention "BIRDS" when you write to Advertisers.