The population of India is enormous, and a general outbreak would necessarily be a very serious
matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

The re-election of Paul Krüger as President of the South African Republic, while fortunate
for the citizens of that country, is thought to be detrimental to British interests in South
Africa, for since the Jameson Raid, about which we told you in No. 20 of THE GREAT ROUND WORLD,
Oom Paul has not held the English in high favor.

President Krüger received three-quarters of the votes in the late election. His rivals were
General Joubert, Vice-President of the Republic, and Schalk Burger, a member of the Executive
Council. The President's term is five years.

       *       *       *       *       *

A VERY important event in South Africa is the completion of the railway between Cape Town and
Buluwayo. Look on your map and see what a great distance this is. It is just about as far as
New York is from New Orleans. The road is to be continued to Lake Tanganyika (Buluwayo lies
about mid-way between Cape Town and the southern extremity of this Lake). It is reported that
this extension will cost $15,000,000. England controls this railway, and it will probably be
the source of great revenue to her, for the natural treasures of this part of Africa are almost
unlimited.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a very interesting article in McClure's Magazine for March about Andrée and his expedition.
The finding of the carrier-pigeon is described. It seems that the captain of the sealer Aiken,
which was cruising near Spitzbergen, saw this bird in the rigging of his boat. It was very
tired, had its head under its wing, and was fast asleep. The captain shot the bird, and it
fell into the sea. He did not think anything more of the matter until he happened to remember
hearing about the pigeons Andrée had taken with him. He turned his vessel, and steered back
to try and find the bird. Fortunately he was successful, and attached to a tail-feather of
the carrier-pigeon was found a small tube with this message in it:

          "July 13th, 12:30 P.M.

          "Latitude 82° 2'; longitude 15° 5' east. Good
          progress eastward, 10° south. All well on board.
          This is the third pigeon despatch.

                                                  "ANDRÉE."

It has been proved that this dispatch really was from Andrée, and it is the only word that
has been received from him since he started on his perilous trip.

       *       *       *       *       *

England seems to be determined to keep her hold in Egypt, and, if possible, to strengthen it.
Her troops there have been ordered to proceed to Khartoum and thence to Uganda, with the plan
of sending them on to Fashoda in order to make it a British post.

England realizes the immense importance to her commerce of keeping the White Nile Valley open
and safe. It is reported that she is now conducting negotiations at Brussels and at Berlin
to secure control of the territory connecting Uganda with South Africa, which she tried unsuccessfully
to secure several years ago when Lord Rosebery was in power.

       *       *       *       *       *

The news that the French liner La Champagne was overdue last month in New York, caused considerable
anxiety. This increased as several days passed without bringing any news of her.

Then the steamer Rotterdam, which arrived in New York on February 27th, brought an officer
and six men belonging to La Champagne. They had been picked up in an open boat in which they
had been tossed about on a rough sea for six days and nights, suffering great hardships.

