This vocal imitation of instruments is not a normal ability; the tones of the oboe and trumpet
do not lie within the range of qualities native to the normal voice. But the quality of the
perfect vocal tone is unquestionably within the range of every voice so constituted as to be
capable of artistic singing. A fine natural voice normally produces beautiful tones. It is
only with this type of voice that Voice Culture is concerned. Such a voice must be capable
of producing the perfect vocal tone. Can it learn to produce this quality of tone by imitation?

It cannot be questioned that the faulty tones of one voice can readily be imitated by another
voice. Any one endowed with normal powers of speech can imitate a markedly nasal speaking voice.
This is equally true of a nasal tone in singing, and of a strongly throaty tone as well. The
more marked the fault of production the more readily it is heard and the more easily it can
be imitated.

Let us imagine the case of a vocal teacher who undertakes to teach a gifted pupil by having
the pupil imitate tones of faulty production, and gradually correcting the faults in the tones
sung as a model for the pupil. The master is of course understood to have perfect command of
his own voice. Suppose this master to begin the course of instruction by singing for the pupil
tones of exaggerated throaty quality, and bidding the pupil to imitate these tones. Naturally,
the pupil would have no difficulty in doing so. At the next lesson the master would very slightly
improve the quality of the tones sung as a model for the pupil's imitation. The student would
listen to these tones and model his daily practice accordingly. Just so soon as the student
had succeeded in correctly reproducing this slightly less throaty tone the master would again
set a slightly improved model.

With each successive step the master might eliminate, one by one, the faults of his own tone-production.
Following the same course, the pupil would also gradually approach a correct model of tone.
Finally, all the faults of tone-production having been corrected, both of master and pupil,
the latter would be called upon to imitate perfect vocal tones. It would necessarily follow
either that the student would successfully imitate the master's perfect tones or that at some
point in this progress the student's imitative faculty would be found lacking.

Could any point be located at which the student would be unable to imitate the teacher's voice?
This could certainly not be in the early stages of the course. Any one can imitate a very bad
throaty or nasal tone. This being done, the imitation of a slightly less faulty tone would
also present no difficulty. A second improvement in the master's model tone would again be
readily imitated, and so on, with each succeeding correction of the faults of production. When
the last trace of faulty production in the student's voice had been eliminated, he would be
singing perfect tones. It is utterly impossible to define a point in this progress at which
the pupil would be unable to imitate the teacher's voice. If a bad fault of production can
be imitated, so can a comparatively slight fault. Further, if the pupil can correct his pronounced
faulty production by imitating a tone not quite so faulty, so can he improve upon this tone
by imitating a still better model of production. This process of gradual improvement by imitation
must be capable of continuation until the last fault is eliminated. No limit can be set to
the ability of the voice to improve its manner of tone-production by imitation. It must therefore
be concluded that the perfect vocal action can be acquired by imitation.

In practical Voice Culture, learning to sing by imitation means simply the cultivation of the
sense of hearing and the guidance of the voice by the ear. In other words, those vocal theorists
who insist upon ear training commit themselves to the theory of imitative Voice Culture. What
necessity is there of mechanical management of the vocal organs if the voice is to be guided
by the ear? Even if mechanical management of the voice were possible it would be entirely superfluous.
The voice needs no other guidance than the singer's sense of hearing.

Here another striking question is encountered: Why should the vocal organs be thought to be
unable to adjust themselves for the tone quality demanded by the ear any more than for the
pitch? No vocal theorist has ever thought to formulate rules for securing the tension of the
vocal cords necessary for the desired pitch. This is always left to instinctive processes.
No one would ever undertake to question the voice's ability to sing by imitation a note of
any particular pitch. What valid reason can be given for denying the corresponding ability
regarding tone quality?

Only one answer can be made to this question. The whole matter of mechanical vocal management
rests on pure assumption. No scientific proof has ever been sought for the belief that the
voice requires mechanical management. This necessity is always assumed, but the assumption
is utterly illogical. The vocal organs adjust themselves for the imitation of tone quality
by exactly the same psychological processes as for the imitation of pitch. Neither pitch nor
tone quality can be regulated in any other way than by the guidance of the ear.

Imitation furnishes the only means of acquiring the correct vocal action. Several authorities
on the voice admit the value of imitation, even though they also make much of the mechanical
doctrines of modern methods. Sieber gives imitation as the best means of curing faults of production.
"The best means to free the student of the three forms of faulty tone just described is possessed
by that teacher who is able to imitate these faults with his own voice." (Vollständiges Lehrbuch
der Gesangskunst, Ferd. Sieber, 1858.) Dr. Mills goes further and advocates the imitating of
finished singers for the purpose of acquiring the correct vocal action. "The author would recommend
all students who have begun a serious practical study of the registers to hear, if possible,
some singer of eminence who observes register formation strictly." (Voice Production in Singing
and Speaking, Phila., 1906.) Kofler even declares that imitation is an indispensable element
of instruction. "It is just as difficult or impossible to learn to sing good tones without
hearing the teacher's pure model tone as it is difficult or impossible to learn to speak without
hearing." (The Art of Breathing, Leo Kofler, 1889.)

If the correct vocal action is to be acquired by imitation, of what use are the mechanical
doctrines of vocal management? Kofler seeks to combine these two forms of instruction. "Physiological
theories must go hand in hand with the musical ear or the law of imitation." Scientifically
considered, this attempted combination of mechanical vocal training and instruction by imitation
is an utter absurdity. There is no possibility of connection between vocal imitation and mechanical
vocal management. Reliance on the imitative faculty involves the utter rejection of the mechanical
idea. Compromise, or combination of the two, is a logical absurdity. Imitation and attempted
mechanical management of the voice are absolutely incompatible. Any attempt consciously to
direct the muscular workings of the vocal organs is an interference with the normal action
of the voice. So soon as conscious mechanical management of the voice is attempted throat stiffness
results, and the voice is hampered in the exercise of its instinctive faculty of imitation.
It is impossible to acquire the correct vocal action by the application of mechanical rules,
because a consistent following of mechanical doctrines utterly prevents the vocal organs from
operating normally, even though the student try at the same time to guide the voice by the
sense of hearing.

A close scrutiny of the practices of modern vocal teachers reveals convincing evidence that
all their successes are due to a reliance, conscious or unconscious, on the imitative faculty.
Teachers are as a rule not aware of the appeal to the instinct of imitation; neither indeed
do the students usually pay much attention to this feature of their lessons. Much of modern
vocal instruction is dual in character. When, for example, the teacher wishes to correct a
marked fault in the pupil's tone-production, he adopts this dual mode of imparting his ideas.
First, he explains to the pupil the (supposed) mechanical operation; second, he imitates the
pupil's faulty production and then sings a correct tone to show how it should be produced.

For the teacher to sing the correct tone takes but a few seconds and requires almost no thought.
The mechanical explanation, on the other hand, calls for much more of time, and of voluntary
attention, from both master and student. It thus follows that they both look upon the mechanical
rule as the important matter, and consider the teacher's perfect tone as merely an illustration
of the rule.

In most cases the student strives to apply the mechanical rule, particularly in home practice
between lessons. Under these circumstances the voice does not respond satisfactorily. But it
often happens that the student pays little attention to the mechanical rule, and simply imitates
the teacher's voice. There being then nothing to interfere, the student's voice naturally responds.
The master ascribes this satisfactory result to the application of the mechanical doctrine,
while in fact the result is due to the student's complete ignoring of the doctrine.

Vocal imitation is often completely unconscious. Individuals vary greatly, as regards the tendency
to unconscious imitation. Of two English lads coming to America at the age of fifteen, one
may be found ten years later to have entirely lost the English accent, the other may retain
it all his life. This difference in individual traits has much to do with determining to what
extent the vocal student may unconsciously imitate correct models of singing. Other characteristics
are also influential in this regard. Some students so dislike to sing mechanically that they
neglect, in their home study, to practise their exercises in the prescribed way. This is often
due to an instinctive abhorrence of harsh sounds. Other students are so gifted with the true
feeling for vocal melody that mechanical instruction makes no impression on them.

As a general rule, the reliance on the imitative faculty in modern vocal instruction is entirely
unconscious on the part of both master and pupil. Adherence to the mechanical idea excludes
from the student's mind all thought of any means of vocal guidance other than mechanical. This
is true, even in the most common form of instruction, imitation and mechanical doctrine combined.
As regards the master, his only conscious exercise of the imitative faculty is the reproduction
of the pupil's faulty tones. He seldom thinks of telling the pupil to imitate his own correctly
produced tones.

Imitation supplies the only practical means for training voices. All the elements of Voice
Culture are combined in one simple process, when the master sings correctly, and the student
imitates the master. This exercise of the imitative faculty may be made to suffice for both
the training of the ear and the cultivation of the voice. On practical, as well as on scientific
grounds, imitation is the only rational basis of a method of Voice Culture.

CHAPTER VI

THE OLD ITALIAN METHOD

To the believer in the necessity of direct mechanical management of the voice, the old Italian
method is a complete mystery. Modern vocal theorists are at a loss to account for the success
of the old masters in training voices. Many authorities go so far as to assert that these masters
possessed some insight into the operations of the vocal organs, along the lines of accepted
Vocal Science. In their introductory chapter, "A Plea for Vocal Physiology," Browne and Behnke
attempt to prove that the old masters studied the anatomy of the vocal organs. But even if
this could be proved, that would not solve the mystery of the old method. Modern teachers are
certainly as well acquainted with the mechanical features of tone-production as the old masters
were. Yet, judged by their results, modern methods are distinctly inferior to the old Italian
method.

There is absolutely no ground for the belief that the old masters owed their success to a knowledge
of vocal physiology. This idea of ascribing scientific knowledge to the early teachers results
only from erroneous belief that no other means of training the voice is possible. It may be
set down as absolutely certain that the old method was not based on the principles of the accepted
Vocal Science.

Yet the old masters undoubtedly possessed some means of training voices. They must have known
something about the voice. Their knowledge, whatever it was, is commonly believed to have been
lost. Many modern teachers claim to have inherited the old method. Still these teachers have
nothing to offer beyond the well-known doctrines of breathing, breath-control, forward tone,
etc. How these doctrines might have been applied in practical instruction nobody is able to
tell. Little attention need be paid to the claim of any modern teacher to possess the old Italian
method of training voices.

So early as 1847 Garcia remarked the dearth of information of a literary character bearing
on the old method. "Unfortunately this epoch has left us only vague and incomplete documents
bearing on its traditions. Of the methods then followed we have only an approximate and confused
idea." (École de Garcia, Mayence, 1847.) Although familiar with the works of Tosi and Mancini,
Garcia was unable to find in their writings any hint of the means used for imparting the correct
vocal action. This same remark is made by many other investigators.

Yet a reconstruction of the old method is not necessarily a matter of conjecture. Once the
possibility of training the voice by imitation is established, the old Italian method is easily
understood. Speaking of the glorious past of the art of Voice Culture, Dr. Mills says: "We
have advanced, musically, in many respects since the days of the old Italian masters, but just
as we must turn to the Greeks to learn what constitutes the highest and best in sculpture,
so must we sit at the feet of these old masters. Consciously or unconsciously they taught on
sound physiological principles." (Voice Production in Singing and Speaking.)

Dr. Mills' statement might be more complete if it were made to read, "consciously or unconsciously
they taught on sound physiological and psychological principles." Vocal instruction on sound
principles is simply the training of the voice by imitation. With the scientific basis of their
method--the laws of physiological psychology--the old masters were utterly unacquainted. Vocal
imitation is purely instinctive. Probably the old masters could not even have formulated a
concise statement of their reasons for relying on the imitative faculty.

Garcia's complaint of the dearth of literary information regarding the old method is by no
means justified. Naturally there is no record of any means for imparting a direct mechanical
management of the voice. Nothing of the kind was thought of. But as a description of a course
in voice training by imitation, the works of Tosi and Mancini leave little to be desired.

Both Tosi and Mancini devote by far the greater portion of their books to describing the ornaments
and embellishments of vocal music. They take up the singer's education from the beginning and
seem to assume, as a matter of course, that the training in the art of music is coincident,
if not indeed identical, with the cultivation of the voice. But they do not by any means neglect
the subject of tone-production. Most modern readers of these early writers overlook the simple
directions given for securing a proper use of the voice. This is, of course, due to the current
belief that directions for vocal management must of necessity deal with mechanical and muscular
operations. Finding nothing of this kind in Tosi and Mancini, the modern investigator concludes
that these writers for some reason failed to record the means used for imparting the correct
vocal action. All that can be found by such an investigator in the works of Tosi and Mancini
is an outline of an elaborate system of coloratura singing. Much more is seen when the meaning
of imitative Voice Culture is understood.

Let us consider first the "Observations" of Tosi. This writer devotes his first few pages to
some remarks on the art of singing, and to a general consideration of the practices of Voice
Culture. Almost at the outset we meet this striking statement: "It would be needless to say
that verbal instruction would be of no use to singers any farther than to prevent 'em falling
into errors, and that it is practice alone can set them right." That is certainly a sound principle.

Consider also this passage. "The faults in singing insinuate themselves so easily into the
minds of young beginners, and there are such difficulties in correcting them, when grown into
an habit, that it were to be wished the ablest singers would undertake the task of teaching,
they best knowing how to conduct the scholar from the first elements to perfection. But there
being none (if I mistake not) but who abhor the thoughts of it, we must reserve them for those
delicacies of the art, which enchant the soul. Therefore the first rudiments necessarily fall
to a master of a lower rank, till the scholar can sing his part at sight; whom one would at
least wish to be an honest man, diligent and experienced, without the defects of singing through
the nose, or in the throat, and that he have a command of voice, some glimpse of a good taste,
able to make himself understood with ease, a perfect intonation, and a patience to endure the
fatigue of a most tiresome employment."

This brings out three striking facts. First, that the student learned to use his voice by imitating
the voice of the master. Second, that the initial work of "voice placing" was merely an incident
in the training in sight singing and the rudiments of music. Third, that "voice placing" was
considered of too little importance to claim the attention of masters of the first rank. This
feature of instruction, so important now as to overshadow all else, was at that time left to
masters of a lower rank.

This passage is followed by a short discourse on the rudiments of Sol Fa, a subject of only
academic interest to the modern student. We are so thoroughly accustomed nowadays to the diatonic
scale that it is almost impossible for us to understand the old system of Muance or Solmisation.
Suffice it to say that only four keys were known, and that each note was called by its full
Sol-Fa name. Thus D was called D-la-sol-re, C was C-sol-fa-ut, etc. In studying sight singing,
the student pronounced the full name of each note in every exercise. Instruction in singing
began with this study of sight reading. In the course of this practice the student somehow
learned to produce his voice correctly.

Tosi does not leave us in doubt what was to be done in order to lead the pupil to adopt a correct
manner of tone-production. "Let the master do his utmost to make the scholar hit and sound
the notes perfectly in tune in Sol-Fa-ing.... Let the master attend with great care to the
voice of the scholar, which should always come forth neat and clear, without passing through
the nose or being choaked in the throat." To sing in tune and to produce tones of good quality,--this
summed up for Tosi the whole matter of tone-production.

Many teachers in the old days composed Sol-Fa exercises and vocalises for their own use. Tosi
did not think this indispensable. But he points out the need of the teacher having an extensive
repertoire of graded exercises and vocalises. To his mind these should always be melodious
and singable. "If the master does not understand composition let him provide himself with good
examples of Sol-Fa-ing in divers stiles, which insensibly lead from the most easy to the most
difficult, according as he finds the scholar improves; with this caution, that however difficult,
they may be always natural and agreeable, to induce the scholar to study with pleasure."

How many months of study were supposed to be required for this preliminary course we have no
means of judging from Tosi's work. At any rate the combining of the registers was accomplished
during this time. Tosi's description of the registers is very concise. "Voce di Petto is a
full voice which comes from the breast by strength, and is the most sonorous and expressive.
Voce di Testa comes more from the throat than from the breast, and is capable of more volubility.
Falsetto is a feigned voice which is formed entirely in the throat, has more volubility than
any, but of no substance." He speaks of the necessity of uniting the registers, but gives no
directions how this is to be accomplished. Evidently this seemed to him to present no difficulty
whatever.

In this early period of instruction the pupil was exercised in both portamento and messa di
voce. "Let him learn the manner to glide with the vowels, and to drag the voice gently from
the high to the lower note.... In the same lessons let him teach the art to put forth the voice,
which consists in letting it swell by degrees from the softest Piano to the loudest Forte,
and from thence with the same art return from the Forte to the Piano. A beautiful Messa di
Voce can never fail of having an excellent effect."

Only the first chapter of Tosi's book is devoted to this initial study. That the student was
expected to make steady progress as a result of this study is evident from the closing sentence
of this chapter. "The scholar having now made some remarkable progress, the instructor may
acquaint him with the first embellishments of the art, which are the Appoggiaturas, and apply
them to the vowels." The remainder of the work is devoted almost entirely to the embellishments
of singing. Here and there an interesting passage is found. "After the scholar has made himself
perfect in the Shake and the Divisions, the master should let him read and pronounce the words."
(Shake was the old name for trill, and division for run.) Again, "I return to the master only
to put him in mind that his duty is to teach musick; and if the scholar, before he gets out
of his hands, does not sing readily and at sight, the innocent is injured without remedy from
the guilty." This injunction might well be taken to heart by the modern teacher. Good sight
readers are rare nowadays, outside of chorus choirs.

