During the rest of the day you will hear him repeating your little pleasantry either to himself
or to his companions. You can keep it up by saying now and then, "How many did the constable
pocket that last beat?" (Shouts of laughter.) Thus shall your reputation as a humorist be established
amongst the beating fraternity--("that 'ere Muster JACKSON, 'e do make a chap laugh, that 'e
do," is the formula)--and if you revisit the same shooting next year, a beater is sure to take
an opportunity of saying to you, with a grin on his face, "Policeman's a comin' out to-day,
Sir; I'm a goin' to hev my eye tight on 'im, so as 'e don't pocket no rabbits," to which you
will reply, "That's right, GEORGE, you stick to it, and you'll be a policeman yourself some
day," at which impossible anticipation there will be fresh explosions of mirth. So easily pleased
is the rustic mind, so tenacious is the rustic memory.

But the head-keeper recks not of these things. All the anxiety of the day is his. If, for one
reason or another, he fails to show as good a head of game as had been expected, he knows his
master will be displeased. If the beaters prove intractable, the birds go wrong, but the burden
of the host's disappointment falls on the keeper's shoulders. His are all the petty worries,
the little failures of the day. The keeper is, therefore, not given to conversation. How should
he be, with all these responsibilities weighing upon him? Few of those who shoot realise what
the keeper has gone through to provide the sport. Inclement nights spent in the open, untiring
vigilance by day and by night, a constant and patient care of his birds during the worst seasons,
short hours of sleep, and long hours of tramping, such is the keeper's life. And, after all,
what a fine fellow is a good keeper. In what other race of men can you find in a higher degree
the best and manliest qualities, unswerving fidelity, dauntless courage, unflinching endurance
of hardship and fatigue, and an upright honesty of conduct and demeanour? I protest that if
ever the sport of game-shooting is attacked, one powerful argument in its favour may be found
in the fact that it produces such men as these, and fosters their staunch virtues. Think well
of all this, my young friend, and do not vex the harassed keeper with idle and frivolous remarks.
But you may permit yourself to say to him, during the day, "That's a nice dog of yours; works
capitally."

"Yes, Sir," the keeper will say, "he's not a bad 'un for a young 'un. Plenty of good blood
in him. His mother's old Dido. I've had to leave her at home to-day, because she's got a sore
foot; but her nose is something wonderful."

"Did you have much trouble breaking him?"

"Lor' bless you, Sir, no. He took to it like a duck to the water. Nothing comes amiss to him.
You stand there, Sir, and you'll get some nice birds over you. They mostly breaks this way."

That kind of conversation establishes good relations, always an important thing. Or you may
hint to him that he knows his business better than the host, as thus:--

"I must have been in the wrong place that last beat. Not a single bird came near me."

"Of course you were, Sir. I knew how it would be. I wanted you fifty yards higher up, but Mr.
CHALMERS, he would have you here. Lor, I've never known birds break here. Now then, you boys,
stop that chattering, or I sends you all home. Seem to think they're out here to enjoy theirselves,
instead of doing as I tells 'em. Come, rattle your sticks!"

Thus are the little beaters and the stops admonished.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM A MODERN ENGLISH EXAMINATION-PAPER

Which young Mr. D. Brown went in to floor, but which floored him.

Question. What is the meaning of "to deodorise." Give the derivation.

Answer. "To deodorise" is to gild the statue of a heathen deity. Literally "to gild a god."
This compound verb is derived from "Deus," dative "Deo," and the Greek verb "[Greek: dôrixô],
i.e. to gild."

Q. What is a "Manicure"? Give its derivation.

A. It is another term for a Mad Doctor. Its derivation is obvious--"Maniac Cure." The last
syllable of the first word being omitted for the sake of convenience in pronunciation.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COMING OF THE BOGEYS.

  I had a Dream, which was not all a Dream.
  (By Somnus and old Nox I fear 'twas not!)
  Common-sense was extinguished, and Good Taste
  Did wonder darkling on the verge of doom.
  I saw a Monster, a malign, marine,
  Mysterious, many-whorled, mug-lumbering Bogey,
  Stretched (like Miltonian angels on the marl)
  In league-long loops upon the billowy brine.
  Beshrew thee, old familiar ocean Bogey,
  Thou spectral spook of many Silly Seasons,
  Beshrew thee, and avaunt! Which being put
  In post-Shakspearian vernacular, means
  Confound, you, and Get out!!! The monstrous worm
  Wriggling its corkscrew periwinkly twists
  Of trunk and tail alternate, winked huge goggles
  Derisively and gurgled. "Me get out,
  The Science-vouched, and Literature-upheld,
  And Reason-rehabilitated butt
  Of many years of misdirected mockery?
  You ask omniscient HUXLEY, cocksure oracle
  On all from protoplasm to Home Rule,
  From Scripture to Sea Serpents; go consult
  Belligerent, brave, beloved BILLY RUSSELL!
  Verisimilitude incarnate, I
  Scorn your vain sceptic mirth!
          Besides, behold
  The portent riding me, as Thetis rode
  The lolloping, wolloping sea-horse of old!
  Is it less likely that I should remain
  Than she return?"
          Then, horror-thrilled, I gazed
  At her, the Abominable, the Ogreish Thing;
  The soul-revolting, sense-degrading She,
  Who swayed and sickened, scourged and scarified
  The unwilling slaves of fashion and discomfort
  A quarter of a century since!
          She sat,
  A spectral, scraggy, beet-nosed, ankle-less,
  Obtrusive-panted, splay-foot, slattern-shape,
  Of grim Medusa-faced Immodesty,
  Caged cumbrously in a stiff, swaying, swollen,
  Shin-scarifying, hose-revealing frame
  Of wide-meshed metal, like a monster mousetrap--
  Hideous, indecent, awkward!
          Oh, I knew her--
  This loathly revenant, revisiting
  The glimpses of the moon. She shamed my sight,
  And blocked my way, and marred my young men's art,
  Twenty years syne and more. 'Twas CRINOLINA,
  The long-abiding, happily banished horror
  We hoped to see no more. Shall she return
  To vex our souls, unsex our wives and daughters,
  And spoil our pictures as she did of old?
  Forbid it, womanhood and modesty!
  And if they won't, let manhood and sound sense
  Arise in wrath and warn the horror off,
  Ere she effect a lodgment on the limbs
  Of pretty girls, or clothe our matron's shapes
  With shame as with a garment.
          "Get thee gone!"
  Cries Punch, and shakes his gingham in her face.
  "The Silly Season's Nemesis we may stand,
  But thou, the loathlier Bogey? Garn away!
  (As 'LIZA said to amorous 'ARRY 'AWKINS)
  Avaunt, skedaddle, slope, absquatulate,
  Go, gruesome ghoul--go quickly--and for ever!!!"

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. R.'S nephew read out an announcement to the effect that Messrs. MACMILLAN were about to
publish Lord CARNARVON'S "Prometheus Bound." "Indeed!" exclaimed Mr. R.'s excellent aunt. "That's
very vague. Doesn't it say how it's to be bound?--whether in calf or vellum?"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LAPSUS LINGUÆ.

    ["There is scarcely one of us who does not violate some rule of
    English grammar in every sentence which he speaks."--Daily
    News.]

  Never we dreamt of this horrible blundering!
    Up to the present, we cheerfully spoke
  Quite unaware of our errors, nor wondering
    How many rules in each sentence we broke.

  Now we can scarcely pronounce the admission that
    Grammar and parsing we freely neglect,
  Scarcely can dare to make humble petition that
    Someone or other will cure this defect!

  Often we err in the use of each particle,
    Seldom observe where our adverbs belong,
  Wholly misplace the indefinite article,
    In our subjunctives go hopelessly wrong!

  What can we do? Will the Daily News qualify
    As an instructor in matters like these?
  How can we quickest successfully mollify
    Those whom our errors must sadly displease?

  Scarce can we venture the veriest platitude,
    May not its grammar be shamefully weak?
  You, Mr. Punch, can rely on our gratitude,
    If you will tell us--how ought we to speak?

       *       *       *       *       *

A DARK SAYING.--Had HILDA DAWSON--who, as reported in the D. T. one day last week, was haled
before Sir PETER EDLIN--been a character in some play of SHAKSPEARE'S, to whom the Bard had
given these words to utter--"And this is what you call trial by Jury! Why they are not fit
to try shoemakers!" what voluminous suggestions and explanations of the meaning of this phrase
would not the learned Commentators have written! What emendations, alterations, or amendments
of the text would not have been proposed! Perhaps, some hundreds of years hence, this dark
saying of HILDA DAWSON'S will engage the close attention of some among the then existing learned
body of Antiquaries.

       *       *       *       *       *

"SOUNDS RATHER LIKE IT."--In France the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has gone to the DEVELLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HAYMARKET HYPATIA.

That I never could struggle through CHARLES KINGSLEY'S novel Hypatia, is, as far as I am personally
concerned, very much in favour of my pronouncing an unbiassed opinion on the "new classical
play" ("Historical," if you like, but not "classical," and there is not the slightest chance
of its becoming a "classic") written by G. STUART OGILVIE, entitled Hypatia, and "founded on
KINGSLEY'S celebrated Novel," which "celebrated Novel" is, for me at least, not only "celebrated,"
but "remarkable," as being one of the very few works of fiction (excepting always the majority
of KINGSLEY'S works) completely baffling my powers of endurance.

