TRANSCRIBER'S NOTES:

Following each author's name was a notice: "All rights reserved." This book is currently in
the public domain, and the notices have been removed, but are mentioned here in the interest
of completeness.

Many inconsistencies in spelling, punctuation, and hyphenation have been normalized. Others
remain as in the original. Any deviation from the author's intent is solely the responsibility
of the transcriber.

This book seems to have been bound in two sections, each with stories numbered I-XII. Passengers,
hurrying along the platform, glistened in big coats and tweed caps pulled close over their
ears. By the platform the night express was drawn up--a glittering mass of green and gold,
shimmering with electric lights, warm, inviting, and cozy.

Most of the corridor carriages and sleeping berths were full, for it was early in October still,
and the Scotch exodus was not just yet. A few late comers were looking anxiously out for the
guard. He came presently, an alert figure in blue and silver. Really, he was very sorry. But
the train was unusually crowded, and he was doing the best he could. He was perfectly aware
of the fact that his questioners represented a Cabinet Minister on his way to Balmoral and
a prominent Lothian baronet, but there are limits even to the power of an express guard, on
the Grand Coast Railway.

"Well, what's the matter with this?" the Minister demanded. "Here is an ordinary first-class
coach that will do very well for us. Now, Catesby, unlock one of these doors and turn the lights
on."

"Very sorry, my lord," the guard explained, "but it can't be done. Two of the carriages in
the coach are quite full, as you see, and the other two are reserved. As a matter of fact,
my lord, we are taking a body down to Lydmouth. Gentleman who is going to be buried there.
And the other carriage is for the Imperial Bank of Scotland. Cashier going up north with specie,
you understand."

It was all plain enough, and disgustingly logical. To intrude upon the presence of a body was
perfectly impossible; to try and force the hand of the bank cashier equally out of the question.
As head of a great financial house, the Minister knew that. A platform inspector bustled along
presently, with his hand to his gold-laced cap.

"Saloon carriage being coupled up behind, my lord," he said.

The problem was solved. The guard glanced at his watch. It seemed to him that both the bank
messenger and the undertaker were cutting it fine. The coffin came presently on a hand-truck--a
black velvet pall lay over it, and on the sombre cloth a wreath or two of white lilies. The
door of the carriage was closed presently, and the blinds drawn discreetly close. Following
behind this came a barrow in charge of a couple of platform police. On the barrow were two
square deal boxes, heavy out of all proportion to their size. These were deposited presently
to the satisfaction of a little nervous-looking man in gold-rimmed glasses. Mr. George Skidmore,
of the Imperial Bank, had his share of ordinary courage, but he had an imagination, too, and
he particularly disliked these periodical trips to branch banks, in convoy, so to speak. He
took no risks.

"Awful night, sir," the guard observed. "Rather lucky to get a carriage to yourself, sir. Don't
suppose you would have done so only we're taking a corpse as far as Lydmouth, which is our
first stop."

"Really?" Skidmore said carelessly. "Ill wind that blows nobody good, Catesby. I may be overcautious,
but I much prefer a carriage to myself. And my people prefer it, too. That's why we always
give the railway authorities a few days' notice. One can't be too careful, Catesby."

The guard supposed not. He was slightly, yet discreetly, amused to see Mr. Skidmore glance
under the seats of the first-class carriage. Certainly there was nobody either there or on
the racks. The carriage at the far side was locked, and so, now, was the door next the platform.
The great glass dome was brilliantly lighted so that anything suspicious would have been detected
instantly. The guard's whistle rang out shrill and clear, and Catesby had a glimpse of Mr.
Skidmore making himself comfortable as he swung himself into his van. The great green and gold
serpent with the brilliant electric eyes fought its way sinuously into the throat of the wet
and riotous night on its first stage of over two hundred miles. Lydmouth would be the first stop.

So far Mr. Skidmore had nothing to worry him, nothing, that is, except the outside chance of
a bad accident. He did not anticipate, however, that some miscreant might deliberately wreck
the train on the off chance of looting those plain deal boxes. The class of thief that banks
have to fear is not guilty of such clumsiness. Unquestionably nothing could happen on this
side of Lydmouth. The train was roaring along now through the fierce gale at sixty odd miles
an hour, Skidmore had the carriage to himself, and was not the snug, brilliantly lighted compartment
made of steel? On one side was the carriage with the coffin; on the other side another compartment
filled with a party of sportsmen going North. Skidmore had noticed the four of them playing
bridge just before he slipped into his own carriage. Really, he had nothing to fear. He lay
back comfortably wondering how Poe or Gaboriau would have handled such a situation with a successful
robbery behind it. There are limits, of course, both to a novelist's imagination and a clever
thief's process of invention. So, therefore....

Three hours and twenty minutes later the express pulled up at Lydmouth. The station clock indicated
the hour to be 11.23. Catesby swung himself out of his van on to the shining wet platform.
Only one passenger was waiting there, but nobody alighted. Catesby was sure of this, because
he was on the flags before a door could be opened. He came forward to give a hand with the
coffin in the compartment next to Skidmore's. Then he noticed, to his surprise, that the glass
in the carriage window was smashed; he could see that the little cashier was huddled up strangely
in one corner. And Catesby could see also that the two boxes of bullion were gone!

Catesby's heart was thumping against his ribs as he fumbled with his key. He laid his hand
upon Skidmore's shoulder, but the latter did not move. The fair hair hung in a mass on the
side of his forehead, and here it was fair no longer. There was a hole with something horribly
red and slimy oozing from it. The carpet on the floor was piled up in a heap; there were red
smears on the cushions. It was quite evident that a struggle had taken place here. The shattered
glass in the window testified to that. And the boxes were gone, and Skidmore had been murdered
by some assailant who had shot him through the brain. And this mysterious antagonist had got
off with the bullion, too.

A thing incredible, amazing, impossible; but there it was. By some extraordinary method or
another the audacious criminal had boarded an express train traveling at sixty miles an hour
in the teeth of a gale. He had contrived to enter the cashier's carriage and remove specie
to the amount of eight thousand pounds! It was impossible that only one man could have carried
it. But all the same it was gone.

Catesby pulled himself together. He was perfectly certain that nobody at present on the train
had been guilty of this thing. He was perfectly certain that nobody had left the train. Nobody
could have done so after entering the station without the guard's knowledge, and to have attempted
such a thing on the far side of the river bridge would have been certain death to anybody.
There was a long viaduct here--posts and pillars and chains, with tragedy lurking anywhere
for the madman who attempted such a thing. And until the viaduct was reached the express had
not slackened speed. Besides, the thief who had the courage and intelligence and daring to
carry out a robbery like this was not the man to leave an express train traveling at a speed
of upwards of sixty miles an hour.

The train had to proceed, there was no help for it. There was a hurried conference between
Catesby and the stationmaster; after that the electric lamps in the dead man's carriage were
unshipped, and the blinds pulled down. The matter would be fully investigated when Edinburgh
was reached, meanwhile the stationmaster at Lydmouth would telephone the Scotch capital and
let them know there what they had to expect. Catesby crept into his van again, very queer and
dizzy, and with a sensation in his legs suggestive of creeping paralysis.

       *        *       *       *       *

Naturally, the mystery of the night express caused a great sensation. Nothing like it had been
known since the great crime on the South Coast, which is connected with the name of Lefroy.
But that was not so much a mystery as a man hunt. There the criminal had been identified. But
here there was no trace and no clue whatever. It was in vain that the Scotland Yard authorities
tried to shake the evidence of the guard, Catesby. He refused to make any admissions that would
permit the police even to build up a theory. He was absolutely certain that Mr. Skidmore had
been alone in the carriage at the moment that the express left London; he was absolutely certain
that he had locked the door of the compartment, and the engine driver could testify that the
train had never traveled at a less speed than sixty miles an hour until the bridge over the
river leading into Lydmouth station was reached; even then nobody could have dropped off the
train without the risk of certain death. Inspector Merrick was bound to admit this himself
when he went over the spot. And the problem of the missing bullion boxes was quite as puzzling
in its way as the mysterious way in which Mr. Skidmore had met his death.

There was no clue to this either. Certainly there had been a struggle, or there would not have
been blood marks all over the place, and the window would have remained intact. Skidmore had
probably been forced back into his seat, or he had collapsed there after the fatal shot was
fired. The unfortunate man had been shot through the brain with an ordinary revolver of common
pattern, so that for the purpose of proof the bullet was useless. There were no finger marks
on the carriage door, a proof that the murderer had either worn gloves or that he had carefully
removed all traces with a cloth of some kind. It was obvious, too, that a criminal of this
class would take no risks, especially as there was no chance of his being hurried, seeing that
he had had three clear hours for his work. The more the police went into the matter, the more
puzzled they were. It was not a difficult matter to establish the bona fides of the passengers
who traveled in the next coach with Skidmore, and as to the rest it did not matter. Nobody
could possibly have left any of the corridor coaches without attracting notice; indeed, the
very suggestion was absurd. And there the matter rested for three days.

It must not be supposed that the authorities had been altogether idle. Inspector Merrick spent
most of his time traveling up and down the line by slow local trains on the off-chance of hearing
some significant incident that might lead to a clue. There was one thing obvious--the bullion
boxes must have been thrown off the train at some spot arranged between the active thief and
his confederates. For this was too big a thing to be entirely the work of one man. Some of
the gang must have been waiting along the line in readiness to receive the boxes and carry
them to a place of safety. By this time, no doubt, the boxes themselves had been destroyed;
but eight thousand pounds in gold takes some moving, and probably a conveyance, a motor for
choice, had been employed for this purpose. But nobody appeared to have seen or heard anything
suspicious on the night of the murder; no prowling gamekeeper or watcher had noticed anything
out of the common. Along the Essex and Norfolk marshes, where the Grand Coast Railway wound
along like a steel snake, they had taken their desolate and dreary way. True, the dead body
of a man had been found in the fowling nets up in the mouth of the Little Ouse, and nobody
seemed to know who he was; but there could be no connection between this unhappy individual
and the express criminal. Merrick shook his head as he listened to this from a laborer in a
roadside public house where he was making a frugal lunch on bread and cheese.

"What do you call fowling nets?" Merrick asked.

"Why, what they catches the birds in," the rustic explained. "Thousands and thousands of duck
and teel and widgeon they catches at this time of year. There's miles of nets along the road--great
big nets like fowl runs. Ye didn't happen to see any on 'em as ye came along in the train?"

"Now I come to think of it, yes," Merrick said thoughtfully. "I was rather struck by all that
netting. So they catch sea birds that way?"

"Catches 'em by the thousand, they does. Birds fly against the netting in the dark and get
entangled. Ducks they get by 'ticing 'em into a sort of cage with decoys. There's some of 'em
stan's the best part of half a mile long. Covered in over the top like great cages. Ain't bad
sport, either."

Merrick nodded. He recollected it all clearly now. He recalled the wide, desolate mud flats
running right up to the railway embankment for some miles. At high tide the mud flats were
under water, and out of these the great mass of network rose both horizontally and perpendicular.
And in this tangle the dead body of a man had been found after the storm.

There was nothing really significant in the fact that the body had been discovered soon after
the murder of Mr. George Skidmore. Still, there might be a connection between the two incidents.
Merrick was going to make inquiries; he was after what looked like a million to one chance.
But then Merrick was a detective with an imagination, which was one of the reasons why he had
been appointed to the job. It was essentially a case for the theoretical man. It baffled all
the established rules of the game.

Late the same afternoon Merrick arrived at Little Warlingham by means of a baker's cart. It
was here that the body of the drowned man lay awaiting the slim chances of identity. If nothing
transpired during the next eight and forty hours, the corpse would be buried by the parish
authorities. The village policeman acted as Merrick's guide. It was an event in his life that
he was not likely to forget.

"A stranger to these parts, I should say, sir," the local officer said. "He's in a shed at
the back of the 'Blue Anchor,' where the inquest was held. If you come this way, I'll show
him to you."

"Anything found on the body?"

"Absolutely nothing, sir. No mark on the clothing or linen, either. Probably washed off some
ship in the storm. Pockets were quite empty, too. And no signs of foul play. There you are, sir!"

Casually enough Merrick bent over the still, white form lying there. The dead face was turned
up to the light, Rembrandtesque, coming through the door. The detective straightened himself
suddenly, and wiped his forehead.

"Stranger to you, sir, of course?" the local man said grimly.

"Well, no," Merrick retorted. "I happen to know the fellow quite well. I'm glad I came here."

       *        *       *       *       *

Until it was quite too dark to see any longer Merrick was out on the mud flats asking questions.
He appeared to be greatly interested in the wildfowlers and the many methods of catching their
prey. He learned, incidentally, that on the night of the express murder most of the nets and
lures had been washed away. He took minute particulars as to the state of the tide on the night
in question; he wanted to know if the nets were capable of holding up against any great force.
For instance, if a school of porpoises came along? Or if a fish eagle or an osprey found itself
entangled in the meshes?

The fowlers smiled. They invited Merrick to try it for himself. On that stormy east coast it
was foolish to take any risks. And Merrick was satisfied. As a matter of fact, he was more
than satisfied.

He was really beginning to see his way at last. By the time he got back to his headquarters
again he had practically reconstructed the crime. As he stood on the railway permanent way,
gazing down into the network of the fowlers below, he smiled to himself. He could have tossed
a biscuit on to the top of the long lengths of tarred and knotted rigging. Later on he telephoned
to the London terminus of the Grand Coast Railway for the people there to place the services
of Catesby at his disposal for a day or two. Could Catesby meet him at Lydmouth to-morrow?

The guard could and did. He frankly admitted that he was grateful for the little holiday. He
looked as if he wanted it. The corners of his mouth twitched, his hands were shaky.

"It's nerves, Mr. Merrick," he explained. "We all suffer from them at times. Only we don't
like the company to know it, ye understand? To tell the truth, I've never got over that affair
at the Junction here eight years ago. I expect you remember that."

Merrick nodded. Catesby was alluding to a great railway tragedy which had taken place outside
Lydmouth station some few years back. It had been a most disastrous affair for a local express,
and Catesby had been acting as guard to the train. He spoke of it under his breath.

"I dream of it occasionally even now," he said. "The engine left the line and dragged the train
over the embankment into the river. If you ask me how I managed to escape, I can't tell you.
I never come into Lydmouth with the night express now without my head out of the window of
the van right away from the viaduct till she pulls up at the station. And what's more, I never
shall. It isn't fear, mind you, because I've as much pluck as any man. It's just nerves."

"We get 'em in our profession, too," Merrick smiled. "Did you happen to be looking out of the
window on the night of the murder?"

"Yes, and every other night, too. Haven't I just told you so? Directly we strike the viaduct
I come to my feet by instinct."

"Always look out the same side, I suppose?"

"Yes, on the left. That's the platform side, you understand."

"Then if anybody had left the train there----"

"Anybody left the train! Why we were traveling at fifty miles an hour when we reached the viaduct.
Oh, yes, if anybody had left the train I should have been bound to see them, of course."

"But you can't see out of both windows at once."

"Nobody could leave the train by the other side. The stone parapet of the viaduct almost touches
the footboard, and there's a drop of ninety feet below that. Of course I see what you are driving
at, Mr. Merrick. Now look here. I locked Mr. Skidmore in the carriage myself, and I can prove
that nobody got in before we left London. That would have been too dangerous a game so long
as the train was passing any number of brilliantly lighted stations, and by the time we got
into the open we were going at sixty miles an hour. That speed never slackened till we were
just outside Lydmouth, and I was watching at the moment that our pace dropped. I had my head
out of the window of my van till we pulled up by the platform. I am prepared to swear to all
this if you like. Lord knows how the thing was done, and I don't suppose anybody else ever will."

"You are mistaken there," said Merrick drily. "Now, what puzzles you, of course, is the manner
in which the murderer left the train."

"Well, isn't that the whole mystery?"

"Not to me. That's the part I really do know. Not that I can take any great credit to myself,
because luck helped me. It was, perhaps, the most amazing piece of luck I have ever had. It
was my duty, of course, to take no chances, and I didn't. But we'll come to that presently.
Let it suffice for the moment that I know how the murderer left the train. What puzzles me
is to know how he got on it. We can dismiss every other passenger in the train, and we need
not look for an accomplice. There were accomplices, of course, but they were not on the express.
Why didn't Mr. Skidmore travel in one of the corridor coaches?"

"He was too nervous. He always had a first-class carriage to himself. We knew he was coming,
and that was why we attached an ordinary first-class coach to the train. We shouldn't do it
for anybody, but Lord Rendelmore, the chairman of Mr. Skidmore's bank, is also one of our directors.
The coach came in handy the other night because we had an order from a London undertaker to
bring a corpse as far as here--to Lydmouth."

"Really! You would have to have a separate carriage for that."

"Naturally, Mr. Merrick. It was sort of killing two birds with one stone."

"I see. When did you hear about the undertaking job?"

"The same morning we heard from the bank that Mr. Skidmore was going to Lydmouth. We reserved
a coach at once, and had it attached to the Express. The other carriages were filled with ordinary
passengers."

"Why didn't I hear of this before?" Merrick asked.

"I don't know. It doesn't seem to me to be of much importance. You might just as well ask me
questions as to the passengers' baggage."

"Everything is of importance," Merrick said sententiously. "In our profession, there are no
such things as trifles. I suppose there will be no difficulty in getting at the facts of this
corpse business. I'll make inquiries here presently."

So far Merrick professed himself to be satisfied. But there were still difficulties in the
way. The station people had a clear recollection of the receipt of a coffin on the night of
the tragedy, and, late as it was, the gruesome thing had been fetched away by the people whom
it was consigned to. A plain hearse, drawn by one horse, had been driven into the station yard,
the consignment note had been receipted in the usual way, and there was an end of the matter.
Lydmouth was a big place, with nearly a quarter of a million of inhabitants, and would necessarily
contain a good many people in the undertaking line. Clearly it was no business of the railway
company to take this thing any further.

Merrick admitted that freely enough. It was nearly dark when he came back to the station, profoundly
dissatisfied with a wasted afternoon.

"No good," he told Catesby. "At the same time there are consolations. And, after all, I am
merely confirming my suspicions. I suppose your people here are on the telephone. If so, I
should like to send a message to your head office. I want the name of the firm in London who
consigned the coffin here. I suppose the stationmaster could manage this for me."

An hour or so later the information came. Merrick, at the telephone, wanted a little further
assistance. Would the Grand Coast Railway call up the undertaker's firm whilst he held the
line and ask the full particulars as to the body sent from London to Lydmouth. For half an
hour Merrick stood patiently there till the reply came.

"Are you there? Is that Inspector Merrick? Oh, yes. Well, we have called up Lincoln & Co.,
the undertakers. We got on to the manager himself. He declares that the whole thing is a mistake.
They have not sent a corpse over our trunk system for two months. I read the manager the letter
asking for special facilities, a letter on the firm's own paper. The manager does not hesitate
to say the whole thing is a forgery. I think he is right, Inspector. If we can do anything
else for you----"

Merrick hung up the receiver and smiled as if pleased with himself. He turned to his companion,
Catesby.

"It's all right," he said. "Is there any way we can get back to London to-night? The whole
thing is perfectly plain, now."

       *        *       *       *       *

Though Merrick returned to London thoroughly satisfied, he knew that the sequel was not just
yet. There was much conjuring work to be done before it would be possible to place all the
cards on the table. The Christmas holidays had arrived before Merrick obtained a couple of
warrants, and, armed with these, he went down to Brighton on Boxing Day, and put up at the
Hotel Regina, registering himself as Colonel Beaumont, sometime of the United States Field
Forces. Merrick could pose as an authority on Cuba, for on one occasion he had been there for
six months on the lookout for a defaulting bank manager. He had made certain changes in his
appearance, and just now he bore little resemblance to Inspector Merrick of New Scotland Yard.

The big hotel on the front was full. There was a smart dance that same night, preceded by a
children's party and Christmas tree. The house swarmed with young folks, and a good many nationalities
were represented. On occasions like these somebody generally takes the lead, and by common
consent the part of the chief of the events had been allotted to the Marquis de Branza.

To begin with, he was immensely rich. He had vast estates in Italy. He had been staying at
the Regina for the past month, and it was whispered that his bill had reached three figures.
He entertained lavishly; he was the soul of hospitality; he was going to buy a palace in Kings'
Gardens, and more or less settle down in Brighton.

In addition to all this the Marquis was a handsome man, very fascinating, and a prime favorite
with all the boys and girls at the Regina. He had his little peculiarities, of course--for
instance, he paid for everything in gold. All his hotel bills were met with current coin.

Merrick had gleaned all this before he had been a day at the Regina. They were quite a happy
family, and the Colonel speedily found himself at home. The Marquis welcomed him as if he owned
the hotel, and as if everybody was his guest. The dance was a great success, as also were the
presents in connection with the cotillon promoted by the Marquis.

At two o'clock the following morning the Marquis was entertaining a select party in the smoking-room.
The ladies had all vanished by this time. The Marquis was speaking of his adventures. He really
had quite a talent in that direction. Naturally, a man of his wealth was certain to be the
mark for swindlers. Merrick listened with an approving smile. He knew that most of these stories
were true, for they had all been recorded from time to time at Scotland Yard.

"You would have made an excellent detective, Marquis," he said. "You have made it quite clear
where the police blundered over that Glasgow tragedy. I suppose you read all about the Grand
Coast Railway murder."

The Marquis started ever so slightly. There was a questioning look in his eyes.

"Did you?" he said. "Naturally one would, Colonel. But a matter the most inexplicable. I gave
him up. From the very first I gave him up. If the guard Catesby was not the guilty person,
then I admit I have no theory."

One by one, the smoking-room company faded away. Presently only Merrick and the Marquis remained,
save one guest who had fallen asleep in his chair. A sleepy waiter looked in and vanished again.
The hotel was absolutely quiet now. Merrick, however, was wide awake enough; so, apparently,
was the Marquis. All the same, he yawned ostentatiously.

"Let us to bed," he said. "To-morrow, perhaps----"

"No," Merrick said somewhat curtly. "I prefer to-night. Sit down."

The last two words came crisply and with a ring of command in them. The Marquis bowed as he
dropped into a chair and lighted a fresh cigarette. A little red spot glowed on either of his
brown cheeks, his eyes glittered.

"You want to speak to me, Colonel?" he said.

"Very much indeed. Now, you are an exceedingly clever man, Marquis, and you may be able to
help me. It happens that I am deeply interested in the Grand Coast Express murder; in fact,
I have devoted the last two months to its solution."

"With no success whatever, my dear Colonel?" the Marquis murmured.

"On the contrary, my dear Marquis, with absolute satisfaction. I am quite sure that you will
be interested in my story."

The Marquis raised his cigarette graciously.

"You are very good to give me your confidence," he said. "Pray proceed."

"Thank you. I will not bore you with any preliminary details, for they are too recent to have
faded from your memory. Sufficient that we have a murder committed in an express train; we
have the disappearance of eight thousand pounds in gold, without any trace of the criminal.
That he was on the train at the start is obvious. That he was not in any of the carriages conveying
ordinary passengers is equally obvious. It is also certain that he left the train after the
commission of the crime. Doubtless you read the evidence of the guard to prove that nobody
left the train after the viaduct leading to Lydmouth station was reached. Therefore, the murderer
contrived to make his escape when the express was traveling at sixty miles per hour."

"Is not all this superfluous?" the Marquis asked.

"Well, not quite. I am going to tell you how the murderer joined the train and how he left
it after the murder and the robbery."

"You are going to tell me that! Is it possible?"

"I think so," Merrick said modestly. "Now, Mr. Skidmore had a compartment to himself. He was
locked in the very last thing, and nobody joined the train afterward. Naturally a--well--an
amateur detective like myself wanted to know who was in the adjoining compartments. Three of
these could be dismissed at once. But in the fourth there was a corpse----"

"A corpse! But there was no mention of that at the inquest."

"No, but the fact remains. A corpse in a coffin. In a dark compartment with the blinds down.
And, strangely enough, the firm of undertakers who consigned, or were supposed to consign,
the body to Lydmouth denied the whole business. Therefore, it is only fair to suppose that
the whole thing was a put-up job to get a compartment in the coach that Mr. Skidmore traveled
by. I am going to assume that in that coffin the murderer lay concealed. But let me give you
a light--your cigarette is out."

"I smoke no more," the Marquis said. "My throat, he is dry. And then----"

"Well, then, the first part is easy. The man gets out of the coffin and proceeds to fill it
with some heavy substance which has been smuggled into the carriage under the pall. He screws
the lid down and presently makes his way along the footboard to the next compartment. An athlete
in good condition could do that; in fact, a sailor has done it in a drunken freak more than
once. Mind you, I don't say that murder was intended in the first instance; but will presume
that there was a struggle. The thief probably lost his temper, and perhaps Mr. Skidmore irritated
him. Now, the rest was easy. It was easy to pack up the gold in leather bags, each containing
a thousand sovereigns, and to drop them along the line at some spot previously agreed upon.
I have no doubt that the murderer and his accomplices traveled many times up and down the line
before the details were finally settled. Any way, there was no risk here. The broken packing
cases were pitched out also, probably in some thick wood. Or they might have been weighted
and cast into a stream. Are you interested?"

The Marquis gurgled. He had some difficulty in speaking.

"A little dangerous," he said. "Our ingenious friend could not possibly screw himself down
in the coffin after returning to his compartment. And have you perceived the danger of discovery
at Lydmouth?"

"Precisely," Merrick said drily. "It is refreshing to meet with so luminous a mind as yours.
There were many dangers, many risks to take. The train might have been stopped, lots of things
might have happened. It would be far better for the man to leave the express. And he did so!"

"The express at top speed! Impossible!"

"To the ordinary individual, yes. But then, you see, this was not an ordinary individual. He
was--let us suppose--an acrobat, a man of great nerve and courage, accustomed to trapeze work
and the use of the diving net."

"But Colonel, pardon me, where does the net come in?"

"The net came in at a place near Little Warlingham, on the Norfolk coast. There are miles of
net up there, trap and flight nets close by the side of the line. These nets are wide and strong;
they run many furlongs without supports, so that an acrobat could easily turn a somersault
on to one of these at a given spot without the slightest risk. He could study out the precise
spot carefully beforehand--there are lightships on the sands to act as guides. I have been
down to the spot and studied it all out for myself. The thing is quite easy for the class of
man I mean. I am not taking any great credit to myself, because I happened to see the body
of the man who essayed that experiment. I recognized him for----"

"You recognized him! You knew who he was?"

"Certainly. He was Luigi Bianca, who used to perform in London years ago, with his brother
Joseph, on the high trapeze. Then one of them got into trouble and subsequently embarked, as
the papers say, on a career of crime. And when I saw the body of Luigi I knew at once that
he had had a hand in the murder of Mr. Skidmore. When the right spot was reached the fellow
took a header in the dark boldly enough, but he did not know that the storm had come with a
very high October tide, and washed the nets away. He fell on the sands and dislocated his neck.
But I had something to go on with. When I found out about the bogus corpse I began to see my
way. I have been making careful inquiries ever since for the other criminal----"

"The other criminal! You mean to insinuate----"

"I insinuate nothing," Merrick said coldly; "naturally enough I wanted to find Joseph Bianca.
He was the man who picked up the gold; he was the man who hired a car in London from Moss &
Co., in Regent Street, for a week. This was to recover the gold and incidentally also to take
up the thief who stole it. I wanted to find Joseph Bianca, and I've done it!"

The Marquis leaped to his feet. As he did so the man in the distant chair woke up and moved
across the room.

"Don't make a fuss!" Merrick said quietly. "You will be able to explain presently--perhaps
what you are doing here posing as a Marquis, and where you got all that ready money from. Meanwhile,
let me inform you that I am Inspector Merrick, of Scotland Yard, and that this is Sergeant
Matthews. Joseph Bianca, you are my prisoner, and I have a warrant for your arrest as an accessory
before and after the fact for the murder of Mr. George Skidmore. Ask them to call us a cab,
Matthews!"

II

OVER THE GARDEN WALL

The Story of a Vacation

By LOUISE HAMILTON MABIE

THE impression, which floated vaguely as a perfume in the wake of the departing Mr. and Mrs.
Jasper Prentiss, adapted itself pleasingly to any point of view. Generally, it was thought
that Katrina Prentiss was to remain at home under the eye of Grandfather McBride. Particularly,
was this Grandfather McBride's reading of the unspoken word. But Miss Prentiss, herself, thought
so otherwise that the situation completely reversed itself. To Miss Prentiss, Grandfather McBride
was left absolutely under her eye.

Meanwhile the Jasper Prentisses, characteristically explaining nothing, commanding nothing,
leaving events to work themselves out somehow, as events have been known to do, were off for
their month's fishing without undue worry.

"Grandfather will smoke his pipe all over the house," remarked Mrs. Prentiss easily, as they
drove away.

"Oh, Katrina will manage somehow," returned Mr. Prentiss, as easily. "They'll come to terms.
By the way, Kitty, we mustn't forget that marmalade." And, absorbed in their list of supplies,
the Jasper Prentisses disappeared from view.

Grandfather McBride, eighty-one, dependent, save in moments of excitement, upon his knotted
stick, hard-featured, with a rusty beard and a shabby black hat, departed slowly for his own
quarters. Miss Prentiss, twenty-one, hazel-eyed and graceful, with a wonderful creamy skin,
under a crown of auburn braids, sank dreamily upon the broad porch step and gazed across the
green lawn into the future.

"A whole month," thought Miss Prentiss, "of doing as I please--consulting nobody, ordering
things, going to places, and coming home to--freedom." Miss Prentiss spread out her hands with
a sigh of content. "Not that I'm interfered with--ever," she added, reproaching herself, "but
now--well, I'm it."

She rose swiftly and turned up the steps. In the wide doorway stood Grandfather McBride, stick
in hand, hat jammed down, and in his mouth, at a defiant angle, a battered black pipe. A red
flag, backed up by a declaration of the rights of man, could not have spoken more plainly.
Miss Prentiss drew back; Mr. McBride stepped forward. Their eyes met. Then the old gentleman
flung down his challenge. He removed the pipe and held it poised in his hand.

"What you goin' to do to-day, Triny?" he asked, briskly. "When you goin' over to see the Deerings'
parrot? There ain't another such bird in America. You go over there this morning and see that
parrot. Don't loll about the house. Don't be lazy!" Whereupon, with less profanity, but as
much of autocracy as was ever displayed by an Irish boss whipping into shape the lowliest of
his Italian gang, Mr. McBride replaced his pipe elaborately, and walked off with the honors.
Katrina, utterly astonished, stared after him, then shrugged, then smiled.

"Poor Grandfather," she reached at length, "in minor matters I'll let him have his way."

The next day, Grandfather McBride smoked his pipe on the porch. On the third morning he smoked
it in the drawing-room--out of sheer defiance, for he never entered the room save under compulsion.
Katrina, reminding herself that peace was to be desired above victory, shrugged once more,
smiled, and went for a ride. When she swept in, an hour or so later, Grandfather McBride was
in the back garden with John, and the smoke of a huge bonfire obscured the sunlight. This was
revolution, simple and straightforward, and Katrina went at once to the back garden.

"John," she said, "what is the meaning of this? Don't you know that Mr. Prentiss never allows
bonfires? The rubbish is to be carted away, not set on fire."

John, apologetic, perturbed, nodded toward the old gentleman. "Yes, miss, I know. I told Mr.
McBride, miss----"

Grandfather McBride turned coldly upon Katrina. "I ordered this bonfire," he said.

"But, Grandfather, you know the old orders. Father never allows them."

"I allow them," said Mr. McBride. "Your father's away fishing, and I'm in charge. This is my
bonfire. I order bonfires when I please. I like 'em. I like the smell of 'em, I like the smoke----"
Here an unexpected cough gave Katrina a word.

"But, Grandfather," she began again, only to be cut short.

"When the folks are home, I sit still and mind my own business. Now they're away, I'm goin'
to do things. I'm on a vacation myself," said Mr. McBride, "and I'll have a bonfire on the
front lawn if I say so. You go back to the house, Katriny, and read Gibson."

"Ibsen," flashed Katrina.

"I don't care what his Dutch name is--read him. Or else"--a grim light of humor in his hard
gray eye--"go over and see that parrot."

Katrina almost stamped her foot. "I loathe parrots," she cried, "and I came out to talk about
this bonfire."

"I know you did," said Mr. McBride, "but this parrot ain't like other parrots. It's a clown.
It would make a rag baby laugh."

Katrina, flushed, angry, at a loss what to say, decided to say nothing. The sight of John,
discreetly gazing at the roof of the chicken house, the grimness of Grandfather's face, the
discomfort of the choking smoke, urged a dignified retreat. She turned abruptly and left them,
overwhelmed at the exhibition furnished by Mr. McBride, confounded at his sudden leap into
activity after years of serene floating and absolutely in the dark as to any method of controlling
him in the future.

For a week, his pipe and his daily bonfire contented Mr. McBride. Between himself and Katrina,
relations were polite but not cordial. Katrina preserved a dignity which deceived neither of
them. Both knew that she was awaiting something sensational, and the fact worried the old gentleman,
for already he had exhausted his possibilities. He longed for new ideas in this matter of revolution,
but none came. He began to be bored by bonfires, and the lack of opposition to them. Even the
parrot failed to amuse, and he was sinking into dull monotony, when a walk down the long lane
behind the back garden one sunny afternoon changed the horizon of his world.

He was gone for two hours; but Katrina was away from the house herself, and did not notice.
The next afternoon he disappeared for three, finally dragging in weary in body, but high in
spirit. Twice at dinner he chuckled audibly, and three times he recommended the parrot across
the street to Katrina. The next day he vanished after luncheon, and was late for dinner. At
this, Katrina decided to take a hand.

"Grandfather," she said abruptly at dessert, after a long interval of silence on both sides,
"it's all very well to take a vacation, but there is such a thing as overdoing it. I'm sure
you would do nothing that would alarm mother, and I know that if she were at home she would
worry over you. For days you have had no nap. Please rest to-morrow. Don't go walking. Let
me drive you to the club for luncheon."

The old gentleman glanced up at Katrina quickly. "I declare if I hadn't forgot all about that
fellow till this minute," he said. "Speaking of the club, how's Sparks, Katriny?"

Katrina sat suddenly erect and her color deepened. "Do you by any chance mean Mr. Willoughby
Park, Grandfather? If so, I know nothing whatever about him. I haven't seen him for a week."
This with a jerk.

"Don't you marry that chap, Katriny," went on Mr. McBride, unimpressed, "and don't you let
him come around here. He's no good. A fellow that hangs around a country club when he ain't
hangin' around a girl, is always no good. You marry a chap with brains, Katriny, even if he
ain't so long on the cash. Why, I know a young fellow----" Mr. McBride pulled himself up short.
"You dash in for brains, Triny, and I'll take out my pocket book." Here he nodded, as if concluding
a bargain, but Katrina was already upon her feet.

"Grandfather McBride, you are growing insufferable," she cried. "Simply because I mention the
club, you assume that I am--angling--for a man that--that has been decently polite to me. I
have never been invited to marry Mr. Park. And you give me low advice about laying traps for
some other sort of a man. And you mention pocket books! And you go off alone for hours and
come home worn out. And you smoke your horrible old pipe and build your sickening bonfires,
just to spite me! I think you are a wretch, and I've worried over you every day since mother
left." Here she stopped suddenly, with a catch in her throat.

The old gentleman looked at her silently. Then he got up and came around the table. Awkwardly,
he patted her shoulder. Katrina sat down.

"I'm glad you don't like Sparks, my dear," said Mr. McBride, leaning on his stick. "And don't
worry your heart over Grandfather, Triny. Grandfather's no fool. He ain't had so much fun in
years." Mr. McBride winked just here, and put on an air of profound mystery.

"I wonder where you do disappear to," said Katrina. "I think I'll go along."

"Don't you do that," spoke up Mr. McBride alertly. "Don't you do that! A man can't stand a
woman tagging at his heels. He's got to have room, and air to breathe."

"Smoke, you mean," put in Katrina, with returning spirit, "and I warn you, Grandfather, that
if you make fires off our place, you'll be arrested."

"Pooh! Fires!" said Mr. McBride contemptuously. "Amusement for children. I ain't a-makin' fires
these days, Katriny. I've got other things to do." And, with a final pat upon her shoulder,
and a last most telling wink, Grandfather McBride dragged himself wearily, but triumphantly,
to bed.

When Katrina, on the lookout next afternoon, saw Mr. McBride join John in the back garden,
hold with him a whispered consultation broken by many stealthy glances toward the house, and
finally disappear with him down the lane, behind a wheelbarrow laden with boards, she gave
orders that she was not at home, waited half an hour, and followed.

The lane wound coolly green and deserted from the Prentiss place into the heart of the country.
Katrina, walking steadily, passed her own, passed the Graham and the Haskell boundaries, and
stopped in surprise. At a branching path hung a new and conspicuous sign. "Private Road! No
Trespassing, Under Penalty of the Law."

It was a churlish sign. The people of the neighborhood--a summer settlement of friends and
pleasant informalities--were used to no such signs. And Katrina, knowing Grandfather McBride,
turned at once into the branching path. At some distance in, she passed a similar sign, with
every mark of disdain. Finally, she was brought up short by a wire fence, with a gate, high,
wooden, and new, that stretched across the path. She tried the gate, but it did not budge.
From the wood beyond came the sound of voices and the strokes of a hammer. With a quick glance
behind her, and a determined set to her chin, she began to climb the gate.

She was descending upon the other side in safety, when Grandfather McBride came upon her. His
hat was pushed back upon his head, his stick was forgotten. He descended upon her as might
a hungry lion upon its prey. He roared--in fact, he bellowed.

"Katrina Prentiss, get back over that fence. Climb back over that gate; you're trespassing.
Didn't you see the signs? Are you blind? Can't you read? What do you mean by coming in here
where you don't belong? Climb back there and go home at once!"

Katrina, unprepared for battle and aware of being at a disadvantage, swallowed hard and obeyed.
She climbed back over the gate. Once upon solid earth, however, and she glared as fiercely
at Grandfather McBride as he stared ferociously at her.

"I'm not a child," she said furiously, when he stopped to breathe, "to be ordered about and
sent home and insulted. I have never been so treated in my life and I give you fair warning,
Grandfather, that I'll stand it no longer. After this I'll do as I please." Whereupon Katrina,
having woman-like, in the act of obedience, said her say, retreated with dignity and dispatch.
Behind her, Mr. McBride waved his recovered stick over the gate and shouted, but she did not
turn nor attempt an answer.

He came home within an hour, slowly, leaning heavily upon his stick. John followed with the
empty wheelbarrow. They parted at the barn and Mr. McBride went at once to his room and shut
the door. Katrina, sitting at her own window, looked thoughtfully into space and swung a key
upon her forefinger. After a time she stood up, smoothed her hair and pinned on her wide, rose-laden
hat. Then she went down the hall quietly, stopped before Mr. McBride's door, and listened a
moment. A gentle snore proclaimed Mr. McBride's occupation. Katrina fitted the key into the
lock and turned it, took it out again and slipped it beneath a corner of the rug, listened
a further moment and then walked down the stairs, out through the back garden, and, with a
final glance behind her, turned once more into the green and deserted lane.

It must be confessed that Katrina started upon her quest in a spirit far removed from that
of your single-minded explorer. She was urged by a variety of causes. Among them was a determination
to disobey Grandfather McBride, to serve him with his own medicine, to pay him in his own coin,
and to do it as quickly and as frankly as possible. Her rapidly increasing curiosity concerning
the region he guarded with so much mystery counted as well, but the paramount force--for Katrina
was young enough to take her responsibility seriously--was anxiety over the old gentleman himself.
In fact, Katrina departed, as did Lot's wife, with her face and her thought turned backward,
a policy not conducive to brilliant success in exploration.

This time, however, she was stopped by no one. She passed the gate safely, penetrated the wood
and came at length upon a part of Mr. McBride's secret. It was a rough little flight of steps,
made with the help of John, the wheelbarrow, and the boards, which led to the top of a high
brick wall. The wall astounded Katrina even more than did the steps, which is saying a good
deal. The whole elaborate contrivance for keeping people away, puzzled Katrina. It was some
time before she mounted the steps and looked over the wall, but when she finally did so, she
ceased to be merely puzzled. She became lost in a maze of wonder.

Stretching before her, was a wide expanse of green. Just opposite stood a long, low building
of workmanlike appearance. At the left was a very presentable rose garden. At the right, a
rustic summer-house. Surrounding all was the high brick wall. But it was none of these things
that amazed Katrina.

Moving toward her, from the door of the long building, came a little procession--men and women,
walking slowly, sedately dressed in old-time silks and finery, decked with plumes, jewels,
laces, bouquets of flowers. Arrived at a broad space near the summer-house, the company, after
a series of low and preliminary bows, launched forth into a stately dance. Katrina, conscious
of music, descried an individual in very modern blue overalls, who manipulated a phonograph.
A voice from beyond the summer-house, called forth instructions at intervals, with a huskiness
vaguely suggestive of old Coney.

"More side-play there, Miss Beals. Just imagine he's a young hobo you're in love with and yer
father won't let him up the steps. You're doing the Merry Widow act while the old man's not
looking. Don't bow so low you hide your face, Mr. Peters. Your face is worth money to us all.
And everybody get a move on! You're too slow! Hit it up a bit, Jim."

The overalls, thus adjured, accelerated the time of his machine, and a new spirit animated
the group. Katrina leaned far over the wall in order to miss nothing. At length, the dance,
moving toward a finale, reached it with a succession of stirring chords, and a flourish of
curtseys, and the group dissolved.

"That'll do for to-day. You can knock off now," began the husky voice, when Jim, glancing up
from his phonograph, beheld Katrina in her rose-laden hat, leaning far over the wall. If he
had stopped to reflect, he might have ignored the vision, for he was but man, and the vision
a guilelessly pretty one, but he did not stop to reflect. With Jim, to see a thing was to proclaim
it abroad. Immediately, he yelled:

"Hey! Get on to the lady on the wall! Hey! Mr. Connor, come around here. There's somebody on
the wall. Hey!"

At once Katrina, to her utmost discomfort, became the centre of the stage. Everybody turned,
saw her, and began to stare. The silken ladies, the velvet gentlemen, delayed their return
to modern apparel, and took her in. Jim stared clamorously. Mr. Connor, rounding the summer-house,
glared angrily. To Katrina, even the long building blinked its windows at her, and she thought,
with sudden longing, of Grandfather McBride. She wished she had not come. Most of all, she
wished to go, but she did not quite dare.

At once, Mr. Connor took charge of the situation. "Say, young lady," he demanded, in a truculent
manner, "what do you mean by gettin' into these grounds and rubberin' at us over our wall?
Don't you know you can be run in for passin' those signs? Didn't you see that gate?"

"Oh, yes," faltered Katrina; "yes--I saw the gate."

"Well, how'd you get past that gate and them signs," Mr. Connor wanted to know.

"I--I climbed the gate," hesitated Katrina.

Clearly this was not what Mr. Connor expected. Such simplicity must cover guile. A suppressed
smile glimmered through the group and Mr. Connor became more suspicious of Katrina.

"I don't want no kiddin' now, do you hear?" he burst forth. "You're in a tight place, young
woman, and you may as well wake up to the fact at once. The Knickerbocker is doin' things on
a plane of high art, and our methods are our own. Now, I want to know who you represent? And
freshness don't go, d'you see?"

Katrina hardly heard Mr. Connor. Her mind was occupied with the freedom that lay clear behind
her, and the possible patrol-wagons and police stations before her. Perhaps she might conciliate
this red-faced man by allowing him to talk, by being mild and meek and polite. Perhaps a chance
might come for a desperate attempt at escape. But Mr. Connor, conversing fluently, read her
very soul.

"Bring that there light ladder, Jim," he interrupted himself to order, "and if you try to get
away, young woman, it'll be the worse for you. Now, I want to know what yellow sheet you represent?"

"Yellow--why do you take me for a newspaper woman?" cried Katrina. "I'm not. I'm nothing of
the sort. I've never been inside a newspaper office in my life."

"Of course not," observed Mr. Connor, ironically. "They never have. Always society ladies that
can't write their own names. You stand just where you are, miss, till that ladder arrives.
Then I'm coming up to confiscate any little sketches and things you may have handy.

"You are a brute," said Katrina, lips trembling but head held high. "I am Miss Prentiss. I
live near here, and you will not dare to detain me."

"Oh, won't I?" returned Mr. Connor. "I have a picture of myself letting you go. And where the
deuce is Jim?" He turned impatiently toward the building across the lawn, then somewhat relaxed
his frown. "Oh, well, I can take an orchestra chair," observed Mr. Connor. "Here comes the boss."

Katrina, with deepening concern, glanced from Mr. Connor toward the long building. A young
man was sprinting across the stretch of green--a clean-cut young man in gray flannels. At the
first sight of him, Katrina caught her breath sharply and blushed. It was Katrina's despair
that she blushed so easily. As the young man neared them the spectators achieved the effect
of obliterating themselves from the landscape. They melted into space. There remained the young
man, Mr. Connor, and a divinely flushed Katrina.

The young man looked up at her without smiling. He bowed to her gravely. Then he turned to
Mr. Connor. With a few low-spoken words, he wilted Mr. Connor. Katrina, gazing at the rose-garden,
heard something in spite of herself. She heard her name, and caught Mr. Connor's articulate
amazement. She heard mentioned some "old gentleman." She heard a recommendation to Mr. Connor
to go more slowly in the future and to mend his manners at all times. After a hint to Mr. Connor
to look up Jim and the ladder, she heard that gentleman withdraw much more quietly than he
had come, and her eyes finally left the rose-garden and looked straight down into those of
warm gray, belonging to the young man below her.

"Will you mind--waiting--just a moment longer?" he asked. "This is more luck than I've had lately."

Katrina smiled tremulously. "It's in my power to go, then," she said.

"No," said the young man, firmly, "it isn't. On second thoughts, you are to stay just where
you are till that blockhead brings the ladder. I've a good deal to say. I'm going to walk home
with you."

"Oh," said Katrina. "And what will become of your fancy-dress party?"

"My fancy-dress party," returned the young man, "will catch the next trolley for New York.
Oh! Here labors the trusty henchman across the green. Right you are, Jim! No, the lady is not
to come down. I'm to go up." And go up he did, in the twinkling of an eye, and in less than
another the rose-wreathed hat and the young man's gray cap had disappeared from view together.

"Well, what do you know about that?" observed Jim, under his breath, staring at the top of
the wall. He whistled softly. Then he grinned. "Hypnotized, by thunder," concluded Jim, returning
with the ladder.

Meanwhile, the two lingered homeward through the deepening twilight. The gate opened easily
to a key from the young man's pocket; the signs glimmered dimly. They talked lightly, but what
they said proved to both simply an airy veil for what they did not say. Katrina spoke of the
club and the tennis tournament.

"Of course, we lost," she said. "Our best man," with a sidelong look, "did not enter. The committee
said that he was away--on business. I see now that they were misinformed."

"But they weren't," said the young man, eagerly, "if you mean me. I am 'away on business.'
Why, do you know it's seven days since I've seen you?"

Katrina regarded her neat brown shoes.

"The fact is," continued the young man, diffidently, "I've been trying a new method with you.
I've been endeavoring to be missed. And I'm afraid to hear that I haven't been."

"A little wholesome fear is good for anyone," observed Katrina, judicially, "but I can truthfully
say that I rejoiced at the sight of you this afternoon. That red-faced man was about to drag
me off the wall by the hair."

"Oh, Connor," said the young man. "Connor's not polished, but in his line, he's a jewel. He
used to be a stage manager, and considered in that light, he's really mild."

"Is he?" said Katrina, drily. "Does he stage manage for you?"

"Practically that. Don't scoff--please. You see, there's a big future in this business. My
father growled at first, but he's come clean around. The land was mine, and we are using it
this way. The American public are going in for this thing. They want amusement and they want
it quick. And the thing is to provide them with what they want, when they want it."

"Oh," said Katrina. "And you are providing the American public with what they want--back there?"
with a tilt of her head behind her.

"Exactly," he answered. "That's our plant. We are the Knickerbocker Film Manufacturing Company."

"Oh," said Katrina, again. "And the fancy-dress people?"

"We are getting up 'Romeo and Juliet,'" said the young man. "Please don't laugh. It's been
proven that the moving picture audiences like Shakespeare canned."

"Moving picture audiences," repeated Katrina in surprise, and then as the light broke, she
stopped short and looked at the young man.

"Why, didn't you guess?" he queried. "The summer-house--why, of course, the summer-house must
have hidden the camera." He looked at her dejectedly. "I've wanted you so much to know all
about it," he said, "and now that you do, it sounds--oh, drivelling."

"But it doesn't," cried Katrina, eyes shining. "It sounds splendid. It sounds thrilling. I'm
sure it will be a success. You're bound to make it one. I congratulate you. You've left out
a good deal. You've told your story very badly, but I'm good at filling in. The fact is, I'm
proud to know you, and you may shake hands with me if you wish to."

"Oh, Katrina," murmured the young man, and they clasped hands. It was just here that Grandfather
McBride turned into the lane from the back garden and came upon them. When they became aware
of him, leaning heavily upon his stick and frowning at them through the dusk, Katrina braced
herself to meet whatever might come. But, suddenly, to her intense surprise, Mr. McBride beamed
upon them radiantly.

"Well, well, Katriny," he said, in high good humor, "so you've been over that gate again, eh?
Been lookin' over that wall, eh? I knew you would, my dear, I knew you would. There's some
of the McBride spirit in you after all, thank God. I meant to take you myself, but you got
ahead of me." Here he shook hands with the young man. "Glad to see you again, my boy," said
Grandfather McBride. "Brought my little girl home, eh?"

"Well, we were on the way," admitted the young man with enthusiasm. "I see you got the steps
up, sir."

"Yes," said Mr. McBride, "oh, yes. I'm much obliged to you for the permission. It's as good
as any vaudeville, and it's a sight nearer home. You're bound to make money. I tell my granddaughter,"
with a triumphant nod to the lady in question, "to bank on brains and energy and American push.
I tell her," with a profound wink to Katrina, "to let this old family nonsense and society
racket go hang. I'm glad she met you."

"But we mustn't stand here in the lane, Grandfather," put in Katrina, hurriedly. "It's getting
damp."

"That's so," agreed Mr. McBride, "and it's getting late." He hooked his cane about the young
man's arm. "Come in and have dinner with us," he said.

Katrina stared in amazement at Mr. McBride. The young man looked eagerly at Katrina. "If Miss
Prentiss will allow me----" he began.

"Huh! Miss Prentiss," spoke up Mr. McBride. "What's she got to say about it? I allow you."
And as Katrina, behind Mr. McBride's back, smiled and nodded, the young man accepted promptly.

Together the three went through the back garden and up to the house. Arrived there, Katrina
disappeared. Grandfather McBride, after settling his guest, came straight upstairs and stopped
at her door.

"Little cuss," beamed Mr. McBride, "goin' off, locking up her old grandfather and meetin' young
chaps. Say, Katriny," he remarked casually, "he's a fine fellow, ain't he?"

Katrina, busy with her hair, nodded.

"Now, if I was a girl," continued Mr. McBride, diplomatically, "and a fellow like that took
a shine to me I'd show a glimmer of sense. I'd up and return it."

"Would you?" remarked Katrina. "I'm glad you like him. You see, Grandfather, you are too smart
for me. I didn't know until just now that you had even met Mr. Park."

Mr. McBride's smile stiffened, then froze, finally disappeared. He opened his mouth, and shut
it. He swallowed hard. At last, he got it out. "Katriny--Katriny, is that Sparks--that fellow
downstairs? Is that Sparks?"

"Hush," said Katrina. "Of course, that is Willoughby Park. Why, Grandfather, didn't you ask
his name?"

"No," said Mr. McBride, "I didn't. I just saw he was a fine, likely----" He stopped abruptly.
"Well, I'll be damned," said Mr. McBride.

Katrina came over to him and put her hand on his shoulder. Mr. McBride looked into space. Standing
so, he spoke once more. "Do you--do you really like him, Triny?" he asked, and although he
looked into space, Mr. McBride saw Katrina's blush. He patted her hand once, and left her.

On his way downstairs, the grimness of Mr. McBride's face relaxed. In the lower hall, he went
so far as to chuckle. When he joined Mr. Park on the porch, he grinned at him amiably.

"I'm a good sport," remarked Mr. McBride, irrelevantly, "but I know when to retire to my corner
and stay there. Say," continued Mr. McBride, unconscious of discrepancies between thought and
action, "after dinner I'm goin' to take you children across the street to see that parrot."

III

RURAL INSURANCE

The Story of a Wayside Halt

By CLOTILDE GRAVES

EXHAUSTED by the effort involved in keeping the thermometer of the closing day of August at
an altitude intolerable to the human kind and irksome to the brute, a large, red-hot sun was
languidly sinking beyond an extensive belt of dusky-brown elms fringing the western boundary
of a seventy acre expanse of stubbles diagonally traversed by a parish right-of-way leading
from the village of Bensley to the village of Dorton Ware. A knee-deep crop of grasses, flattened
by the passage of the harvest wains, clothed this strip of everyman's land, and a narrow footpath
divided the grass down the middle, as a parting divides hair.

A snorting sound, which, accompanied by a terrific clatter of old iron and the crunching of
road-mendings, had been steadily growing from distant to near, and from loud to deafening,
now reached a pitch of utter indescribability; and as a large splay-wheeled, tall-funneled,
plowing engine rolled off the Bensley highroad and lumbered in upon the right-of-way, the powerful
bouquet of hot lubricating oil nullified all other smells, and the atmosphere became opaque
to the point of solidity. As the dust began to settle it was possible to observe that attached
to the locomotive was a square, solid, wooden van, the movable residence of the stoker, the
engineer, and an apprentice; that a Powler cultivator, a fearsome piece of mechanism, apparently
composed of second-hand anchors, chain-cables, and motor driving-wheels, was coupled to the
back of the van, and that a bright green water-cart brought up the rear. Upon the rotund barrel
of this water-cart rode a boy.

The plowing-engine came to a standstill, the boy got down from the water-cart and uncoupled
the locomotive from the living-van. During the operations, though the boy received many verbal
buffets from both his superiors, it was curiously noticeable that the engineer and stoker,
while plainly egging one another on to wreak physical retribution upon the body of the neophyte,
studiously refrained from personally administering it.

"Hook off, can't ye, hook off!" commanded the engineer. "A 'ead like a dumpling, that boy 'as!"
he commented to the stoker, as Billy wrought like a grimy goblin at the appointed task.

"A clout on the side of it 'ud do 'im good!" pronounced the stoker, who was as thin and saturnine
as the engineer was stout and good-humored. "Boys need correction."

"I'll allow you're right," said the engineer. "But it ain't my business to 'it Billy for 's
own good. Bein' own brother to 'is sister's 'usband--it's plainly your place to give 'im wot
for if 'e 'appens to need it."

The stoker grunted and the clock belonging to the Anglo-Norman church tower of the village
struck six. Both the engineer and his subordinate wiped their dewy foreheads with their blackened
hands, and simultaneously thought of beer.

"Us bein' goin' up to Bensley for a bit, me an' George," said the engineer, "an' supposin'
Farmer Shrubb should come worritin' along this way and ask where us are, what be you a-going
to tell 'im, Billy boy?"

"The truth, I 'ope," said the stoker, with a vicious look in an eye which was naturally small
and artificially bilious.

"Ah, but wot is the truth to be, this time?" queried the engineer. "Let's git it settled before
we go. As far as I'm consarned, the answer Billy's to give in regards to my question o' my
whereabouts is: 'Anywhere but in the tap o' the Red Cow.'"

"And everythink but decently drunk," retorted the stoker.

"That's about it," assented the unsuspecting engineer.

The stoker laughed truculently, and Billy ventured upon a faint echo of the jeering cachinnation.
The grin died from the boy's face, however, as the engineer promptly relieved a dawning sense
of injury by cuffing him upon one side of the head, while the stoker wrung the ear upon the other.

"Ow, hoo," wailed Billy, stanching his flowing tears in the ample sleeve of his coat, "Ow,
hoo, hoo!"

"Stop that blubberin', you," commanded the stoker, who possessed a delicate ear, "and make
th' fire an' git th' tea ready against Alfred and me gits back. You hear me?"

"Yes, plaize," whimpered Billy.

"An' mind you warms up the cold bacon pie," added the stoker.

"And don't you forget to knock in the top of that tin o' salmon," added the engineer, "an'
set it on to stew a bit. An' don't you git pickin' the loaf wi' they mucky black fingers o'
yours, Billy, my lad, or you'll suffer for it when I comes home."

"Yes, plaize," gasped Billy, bravely swallowing the recurrent hiccough of grief. "An' plaize
where be I to build fire?"

"The fire," mused the engineer. He looked at the crimson ball of the sun, now drowning in a
lake of ruddy vapors behind the belt of elms; he nodded appreciatively at the palely glimmering
evening star and pointed to a spot some yards ahead. "Build it there, Billy," he commanded briefly.

The stoker hitched his thumbs in his blackened leather waist-strap and spat toward the rear
of the van. "You build the fire nigh th' hedge there," he ordered, "so as us can sit wi' our
faces to'rds yon bit o' quick an' hev th' van to back of us, an' git a bit o' comfort outside
four walls fur once. D' ye hear, boy?"

"Yes, George," quavered Billy.

The sleepy eye of the engineer had a red spark in it that might have jumped out of his own
engine-furnace as he turned upon the acquiescent Billy. "Didn't you catch wot I said to you
just now, my lad?" he inquired with ill-boding politeness.

"Yes, Alfred," gasped the alarmed Billy.

"If the boy doesn't mind me," came from the stoker, who was thoroughly roused, "and if I don't
find a blazin' good fire, an' victuals welding hot, ready just in the place I've pointed out
to 'im, when I've 'ad my pipe and my glass at the 'Red Cow,' I'll----" A palpably artificial
fit of coughing prevented further utterance.

"You'll strap 'im within an inch of 'is life, I dursay," hinted the engineer. "You pipe what
George says, Billy?" he continued, as Billy applied his right and left coat cuffs to his eyes
in rapid succession. "He's give you his promise, and now I give you mine. If I don't find a
roarin' good fire and the rest to match, just where I've said they're to be when I come back
from where I've said I'm a-goin'----"

"You'll wallop 'im a fair treat, I lays you will," said the stoker, revealing a discolored
set of teeth in a gratified smile. "We'll bide by wot the boy does then," he added. "Knowin'
that wot 'e gits from either of us, he'll earn. An' your road is my road, Alfred, leastways
as far as the 'Red Cow.'"

The engineer and the stoker walked off amicably side by side. The sun sank to a mere blot of
red fire behind the elms, and crowds of shrilly-cheering gnats rose out of the dry edges and
swooped upon the passive victim, Billy, who sat on the steps of the living van with his knuckles
in his eyes.

"Neither of 'em can't kill me, 'cos the one what did it 'ud 'ave to be 'ung," he reflected,
and this thought gave consolation. He unhooked a rusty red brazier from the back of the living
van, and dumping it well into the hedge at the spot indicated by the stoker, filled it with
dry grass, rotten sticks, coals out of the engine bunker, and lumps of oily cotton waste. Then
he struck and applied a match, saw the flame leap and roar amongst the combustibles, filled
the stoker's squat tea-kettle with water from the green barrel, put in a generous handful of
Tarawakee tea, and, innocent of refinements in tea-making, set it on to boil.

"George is more spitefuller nor wot Alfred is," Billy Beesley murmured, as the kettle sent
forth its first faint shrill note. Then he added with a poignant afterthought, "But Alfred
is a bigger man than wot George be."

The stimulus of this reflection aided cerebration. Possessed by an original idea, Billy rubbed
the receptacle containing it, and his mouth widened in an astonished grin. A supplementary
brazier, temporarily invalided by reason of a hole in the bottom, hung at the back of the living-van.
The engineer possessed a kettle of his own. Active as a monkey, the small figure in the flapping
coat and the baggy trousers sped hither and thither. Two hearths were established, two fires
blazed, two tea-kettles chirped. Close beside the stoker's brazier a bacon pie in a brown earthen
dish nestled to catch the warmth, a tin of Canadian salmon, which Billy had neglected to open,
leaned affectionately against the other. Suddenly the engineer's kettle boiled over, and as
Billy hurried to snatch it from the coals, the salmon-tin exploded with an awe-inspiring bang,
and oily fragments of fish rained from the bounteous skies.

"He'll say I did it a purpose, Alfred will!" the aggrieved boy wailed, as he collected and
restored to the battered tin as much of its late contents as might be recovered. While on all
fours searching for bits which might have escaped him, and diluting the gravy which yet remained
in the tin with salt drops of foreboding, a scorching sensation in the region of the back brought
his head round. Then he yelled in earnest, for the roaring flame from the other brazier had
set the quickset hedge, inflammable with drought, burning as fiercely as the naphtha torch
of a fair-booth, while a black patch, widening every moment, was spreading through the dry,
white grasses under the clumsy wheels of the living-van, whose brown painted sides were beginning
to blister and char, as Billy, rendered intrepid by desperation, grabbed the broken furnace-rake
handle, usually employed as a poker, and beat frantically at the encroaching fire. As he beat
he yelled, and stamped fiercely upon those creeping yellow tongues. There was fire from side
to side of the field pathway now, the straggling hedge on both sides was crackling gaily. And
realizing the unconquerable nature of the disaster, Billy dropped the broken furnace-rake,
uttered the short, sharp squeal of the ferret-pressed rabbit, and took to his heels, leaving
a very creditable imitation of a prairie conflagration behind him.

It was quite dark by the time the engineer and his subordinate returned from the "Red Cow,"
and their wavering progress along the field pathway was rendered more difficult, after the
first hundred yards or so, by the unaccountable absence of the hedge. It was a singularly oppressive
night, a brooding pall of hot blackness hung above their heads, clouds of particularly acrid
and smothering dust arose at every shuffle of their heavy boots, even the earth they trod seemed
glowing with heat, and they remarked on the phenomenon to one another.

"It's thunder weather, that's wot it be," said the engineer, mopping his face. "I'm like my
old mother, I feel it coming long before it's 'ere. Phew!"

"Uncommon strong smell o' roast apples there is about 'ere," commented the stoker, sniffing.

"That beer we 'ad must 'ave bin uncommon strong," said the engineer in a low, uneasy voice.
"I seem to see three fires ahead of us, that's what I do."

"One whopping big one to the left, one little one farther on, right plumb ahead, and another
small one lower down on my right 'and. I see 'em as well as you," confirmed the stoker in troubled
accents. "And that's how that young nipper thinks to get off a licking from one of us----"

"By obeying both," said the engineer, quickening his pace indignantly. "This is Board School,
this is. Well, you'll learn 'im to be clever, you will."

"You won't leave a whole bone in his dirty little carcase once you're started," said the stoker
confidently.

By this time they were well upon the scene of the disaster. Before their dazed and horrified
eyes rose the incandescent shell of what had been, for eight months past, their movable home,
and a crawling crisping rustle came from the pile of ashes that represented the joint property
of two men and one boy.

"Pinch me, Alfred," said the stoker, after an interval of appalled silence.

"Don't ask me," said the engineer, in a weak voice, "I 'aven't the power to kill a flea."

"There ain't one left living to kill," retorted the stoker, as he contemplated the smoking
wreck. "There was 'undreds in that van, too," he added as an afterthought.

"Burned up the old cabin!" moaned the engineer, "an' my Sunday rig-out in my locker, an' my
Post Office Savings Bank book sewed up in the pillar o' my bunk, along o' my last week's wages
what I 'adn't paid in."

"I shouldn't wonder if Government 'ung on to they savings o' yourn," said the stoker, shaking
his head. "It's a pity, but you'd invested yours as I 'ave mine," he added.

"In public 'ouses?" retorted the engineer.

"Some of it 'as went that way," the stoker admitted, "but for three weeks past I've denied
myself to put a bit into a concern as I think is going to prove a paying thing."

"Owch!" exclaimed the engineer, who had been restlessly pacing in the velvety darkness round
the still glowing wreck of the living-van.

"Don't you believe wot I've told you?" demanded the stoker haughtily.

"You don't always lie, George," said the engineer, gently. "Wot made me shout out like that
just now," he explained, "was treading on something queer, down by the near side wheels. Somethink
brittle that cracked like rotten sticks under my 'eel, an' then I slid on something round an'
squashy. An' the smell like roast apples, what I noticed before, is stronger than ever."

"'Ave you a match about you?" asked the stoker eagerly.

"One," said the engineer, delicately withdrawing a solitary "kindler" from the bottom of his
waistcoat pocket.

The stoker received the match, and struck it on his trousers. A blue glimmer resulted, a faint
s-s-s! followed, and the match went out.

"On'y a glim," said the stoker in a satisfied tone, "but it showed me as I've made my money.
An' made it easy, too."

"'Ow much 'ave you pulled orf, then?" asked the engineer.

"Double the value," replied the stoker, smiling broadly through the darkness, "of the property
what I've lost in this here conflagration."

"That 'ud bring you in about eighteenpence," retorted the engineer bitterly.

The stoker laughed pleasantly.

"Wot do you say to three pun' seventeen?" he demanded.

"Better than a poke in the eye with a burnt stick," said the engineer. "Wot did you say was
the concern you invested in?"

The stoker felt in the darkness for his superior's arm, grasped it, and putting his mouth close
to where he thought his ear ought to be, said loudly:

"A boy."

"Look 'ere, mate," began the engineer, hotly, "if you're trying a joke on me----"

"It ain't no joke," responded the stoker cheerfully. "Leastways not for the boy, it ain't.
But Lord! when I think 'ow near I come to lettin' the policy fall through." He chuckled. "It's
three weeks gone since I took it out," he said contentedly, "an' paid three weeks' money in
advance, an' at threepence a week, that makes ninepence, an' the thought o' them nine half-pints
I might 'ave 'ad out o' money 'as drove me 'arf wild with thirst, over an' over. I should 'ave
'ad to pay again come Monday, if only 'e 'ad 'ave lived."

"If only 'e 'ad lived--" repeated the engineer in a strange far-away tone, "Oo's 'e?" he asked
eagerly.

"You know old Abey Turner as keeps the little sweet-an'-tobaccer shop over to Dorton Ware?"
pursued the stoker. "Old Abey is a agint for the Popular Thrifty Life Insurance Company----"

"I know 'e is," confirmed the engineer.

"Abey 'as bin at me over an' over again to insure my life," explained the stoker, "but I told
'im as I didn't 'old with laying out good money wot wouldn't never come 'ome to roost-like,
until I was dead. Then Abey leans over the counter an' ketches me by the neck 'andkerchief
an' says, 'Think of the worst life you know, an' 'ave a bit on that.' Naturally, talkin' o'
bad lives, you're the first chap whose name comes into my 'ead."

"Me!" ejaculated the engineer, starting.

"But it wasn't wickedness old Abey meaned," continued the stoker, "only un'ealthiness in general.
Somebody wot wasn't likely to live long, that's the sort o' man or woman 'e wanted me to insure.
'A child'll do,' says 'e, smiling, an' tells me 'ow a large family may be made a source of
blessing to parents 'oo are wise enough to insure in the Popular Thrifty. Then it comes into
my mind all of a sudden as 'ow Billy 'ud do a treat, an' I names 'im to Old Abey. 'That young
shaver!' calls out old Abey, disgusted like. 'Why, 'e's as 'ard as nails. Wot's likely to 'appen
to 'im?' 'If you was to see the 'andling 'e gets when my mate is in 'is tantrums,' I says to
old Abey, 'you'd put your bit o' money on 'im cheerful an' willin'.' 'Is Alfred Evans such
a savage in 'is drink?' says old Abey, quite surprised----"

"I'll surprise 'im!" muttered the engineer, "when I meets 'im!"

The stoker continued: "So the long an' the short is, I insured Billy, an' Billy's dead!"

"You don't really think so?" cried the engineer, in shocked accents.

"I don't think," said the stoker, in a hard, high tone, "I knows 'e is."

"Not--burned with the van!" gasped the engineer.

"Burned to cinders," said the stoker comfortably. "'Ow about that smell o' roasting you kep'
a sniffing as we came along, an' wot were it if not cooked boy? Wot was it your foot crashed
into when you called out awhile back? 'Is ribs, 'im being overdone to a crisp. Wot was it you
slipped on----?"

"Stop!" shuddered the engineer. "'Old 'ard! I can't bear it."

"I can," said the stoker, following his comrade as he gingerly withdrew from the immediate
scene of the tragedy. "I could if it was twice as much."

"It will be that to me!" sighed the engineer, seating himself upon the parish boundary stone,
over which he had stumbled in his retreat, and sentimentally gazing at the star-jewelled skies.
"Twice three pound is six, an' twice seventeen bob is one-fourteen. Seven pounds fourteen is
wot that pore boy's crool end 'as dropped into my pocket, and I'd 'ad those best clothes ever
since I got married; an' there was only eight an' fourpence in the piller o' the bunk, an----"

The engineer stopped short, not for lack of words, but because the stoker was clutching him
tightly by the windpipe.

"You don't durst dare to tell me," the frenzied mechanic shouted, "as wot you went an' insured
Billy too?"

"That's just wot I 'ave done," replied the half-strangled engineer. Then as the dismayed stoker's
arms dropped helplessly by his side, he added, "you ought to be grateful, George, you 'ad no
'and in it. I couldn't 'ave enjoyed the money properly, not if you'd 'ad to be 'ung for the
boy's murder. That's wot I said to old Abey two weeks back, when I told 'im as 'ow Billy's
life went more in danger than anyone else's what I could think of, through your being such
a brutal, violent-tempered, dangerous man."

"An' wot did that old snake in the grass say to that bloomin' lie?" demanded the stoker savagely.

"'E said life was a uncertain thing for all," sniggered the engineer, gently. "An' I'd better
'ave a bit on the event an' turn sorrow into joy, as the saying is. So I give Abey a shillin',
bein' two weeks in advance, an' the Company sent me the policy, an' 'ere I am in for the money."

"Like wot I am, an' with clean 'ands for both of us," said the stoker in a tone of cheerful
self-congratulation. "I 'aven't laid a finger on that boy, not since I insured 'im."

"Nor I ave'n't," said the engineer. "It's wonderful how I've bin able to keep my temper since
I 'ad the policy to take care of at the same time."

"Same with me," said the stoker happily. "Why, wot's wrong?" he added, for a tragic cry had
broken from the engineer.

"Mate," he stammered tremulously, "where did you keep your policy?"

"Meanin' the bit o' blue-printed paper I 'ad from the Popular Thrifty? Wot do you want to know
for?" snapped the stoker suspiciously.

"It just come into my 'ead to arsk," said the engineer, in faltering accents.

"In my little locker in the van, since you're so curious," said the stoker grudgingly.

"I 'ad mine stitched up in the piller o' my bunk with my Post Office Savin's book," said the
engineer in the deep, hollow voice of a funeral bell. "An' it's burned to hashes, an' so is yours!"

"Then it's nineteen to one the company won't pay up," said the stoker after an appalled silence.

"Ten 'underd to one," groaned the engineer.

Another blank silence was broken by the stoker's saying, with a savage oath:

"I wish that boy was alive, I do."

"I know your feeling," agreed the engineer sympathetically. "It 'ud be a comfort to you to
kick 'im--or any-think else weak and small wot didn't durst to kick back."

"If I was to give you a bounce on the jor," inquired the stoker, breathing heavily, "should
you 'ave the courage to land me another?"

The engineer promptly hit out in the darkness, and arrived safe home on the stoker's chin.
With a tiger-like roar of fury, the stoker charged, and on the engineer's dodging conjecturally
aside, fell heavily over the parish boundary-stone. He rose, foaming, and a pitched battle
ensued, in which the combatants saw nothing but the brilliant showers of stars evoked by an
occasional head-blow, and the general advisability of homicide. Toward dawn fatigue overcame
them. The stoker lay down and declined to get up again and the engineer even while traveling
on all fours in search of him, lost consciousness in slumber.

A yellow glare in the east heralded the rising of the orb of day, as the figures of an aged
man and a ragged boy moved from the shelter of the belt of elms that screened the village of
Dorton Ware, and proceeded along the right-of-way.

"It's burned, right enough, Billy, my boy," said the old man, shading his bleared eyes with
his horny hand as he gazed at the blackened skeleton of the living-van. "An' all considered,
you can't be called to blame."

Billy whistled.

"If you'd bin asleep inside the van when that theer blaze got started," said old Abey, rebukingly,
as he hobbled along by the boy's side, "you wouldn't be whistlin' 'My Own Bluebell' now; your
pore widowed mother, what lives in that theer little cottage o' mine at Porberry End--and 'om
I persuaded to insure you in the Popular Thrifty--would 'ave 'ad a bit o' money comin' in 'andy
for 'er Michaelmas rent, an' one or two other people would be a penny o' th' right side, likewise."
He paused, and shading his bleared eyes under his gnarled hand, looked steadfastly at two huddled,
motionless, grimy figures, lying in the charred grass beside the pathway. "Dang my old eyes!"
he cried. "'Tis George an' Alfred--Alfred an' George--snatched away i' their drink an' neither
of 'em insured. I'll lay a farden. Here's a judgment on their lives, what wouldn't listen to
Old Abey an' put into the Popular Thrifty. Here's a waste of opportunity--here's----"

Old Abey's voice quavered and broke off suddenly as the corpse of the engineer, opening a pair
of hideously blood-shot eyes, inquired ferociously what in thunder he meant by making such
a blamed row, while the body of the stoker rolled over, yawned, revealing a split lip, and
sat up staring.

"We--we thought you was dead, mates," faltered Old Abey. "Didn't us, Billy?"

"At first I did," Billy admitted, "an' then I----"

"Then you wot?" repeated the engineer, bending his brows sternly above a nose swollen to twice
its usual size.

"Out with it!" snarled the stoker, whose lip was painful.

"I was afraid as it couldn't be true," stuttered Billy.

The stoker exchanged a look with the engineer.

"The van's burnt, an' we've both lost our property, to say nothin' of our prospects, mate,"
he said with a sardonic sneer, "but one comfort's left us, Billy's alive!"

A little later the plowing engine with its consort was at work under the hot September sky.
As the Powler cultivator traveled to and fro, ripping up the stubbles, the boy who sat on the
iron seat and manipulated the guiding-wheel, snivelled gently, realizing that the brief but
welcome interval of icy aloofness on the part of his superiors had passed, never to return;
and that the injunction of the Prophet would thenceforth be scrupulously obeyed.

IV

HIS HONOR, THE DISTRICT JUDGE

A Tale of India

By JOHN LE BRETON

HIS Honor, Syed Mehta, the District Judge of Golampore, had dined with the Malcolms, and he
was the first of the Collector's guests to leave the bungalow. He sauntered down the drive,
lifting his contemplative gaze to the magnificence of the starry heavens. Behind him, the lamp-lit
rooms sent long thrusts of light, sword-wise, into the hot darkness. Joan Malcolm had taken
up her violin, and the sweet, wailing notes of it came sighing out on to the heavy air. Ruddy,
broad-faced young Capper, of the Police, lounged by the open window, eating her up with adoring
eyes.

His Honor smoked his cigar tranquilly, but at heart, he smouldered. Harrow and Lincoln's Inn
backed his past, the High Courts awaited him in the future. For the present he was a Civil
Servant of excellent position and recognized ability, a Mohammedan gentleman who had distinguished
himself in England as well as in the land of his birth. Also, he was of less account in the
eyes of Joan Malcolm than Capper, a blundering English Acting-Superintendent of Police, with
a pittance of six hundred rupees per mensem.

Possibly Capper had not intended to be offensive, but it is not given to the young and the
British to entirely conceal all consciousness of superiority when speaking with a native. His
courtesy was that of a man who considered it to be beneath his dignity to use less ceremony.
His civility was due to his respect for himself, not for the person whom he honored with his
unintellectual conversation.

The Judge flipped the ash off his cigar, and his slender hand was cool and leisurely. His dark,
straight-featured face was impassive as carven stone. Mentally, he was cursing Capper with
curses of inexhaustible fire and venom.

Malcolm, the Collector, had a right to speak loudly, and to say this or that without cause,
for he was Collector; but Capper, a mere Superintendent of the Police, a cub of twenty-three,
was on a very different footing. Yet, not even as an equal had he borne himself toward a District
Judge.

His Honor's bungalow was on the outskirts of the town, and as he paced along the dusty road,
he came to a footpath that ran down the hill, through dense jungle, to the native village in
the valley. There was a swarm of dark-skinned fellow-men down there, to whom his name stood
for all that is highest in authority. They would have loaded him with gifts had he permitted
them to approach him. To them, it seemed that he was placed far above as a god, holding their
lives and their fate 'twixt finger and thumb, in mid-air. In the unfathomed depths of the Judge's
educated, well-ordered mind stirred a craving for solace. Galled by the brutish indifference
of the Englishmen, there was yet left to him the reverence of his own people. He looked sharply
up and down the road before he dived into the moist heat beneath the trees. He knew all that
he was risking for a mere escapade. He had never trodden that path before, excepting when he
had gone on a shooting expedition with the Collector. There were strange noises in the darkness,
stealthy rustlings, small, unfamiliar cries. He heard nothing but Capper's comment on his carefully
reasoned prediction that the day must come when India would govern herself.

"Oh! you think so?"

Stupid, unmeaning, absurd, but--successful.

Then, immediately Capper was talking to Miss Malcolm about tennis, and she was listening, smiling
and intent. The Judge was a crack tennis player. He loathed the game, but he had made himself
proficient in it, because it is one of the things that people expect of a man. He was impelled
to challenge Capper, and the answer was a drawled excuse.

The Judge was well down the hill now, descending the last precipitous slope, and the countless
odors of the Indian village rose to his nostrils. There was a dull murmurous commotion afar
off, such as bees make when they are hiving. He listened, without curiosity, as he pressed
forward. Suddenly he halted. The murmur boomed out into a long, thunderous roar. Then silence,
and out of the silence a single voice, deep and ringing.

"An infernal protest meeting," the Judge's British training informed him.

He went forward again, moving noiselessly, and reached the outskirts of the crowd, sheltering
himself between the bushes that fringed the jungle. Torches flared, and smoked, and shed a
ruddy, uncertain light on hundreds of rapt, upturned faces. The orator stood tall and straight
above them, fully revealed by purposely clustered lights. He volleyed reproach and insult upon
his listeners, he gave them taunts instead of persuasion. They stood enthralled by the passionate
voice, and bitter words found their mark, and rankled poisonously.

"These soors of Feringhi, whom you call your masters, beat you, and they use your brothers
to be their sticks. But for your brothers, who wear the uniform of the Feringhi, and carry
their guns, these worthless masters would be trodden into the dust beneath your feet. The men
who hedge them in with steel must turn that steel against them."

The roar of voices thundered among the trees, and died away suddenly, so that no word from
the speaker might be lost.

"They are cunning, these Feringhi, my brothers. They steal the wisest from among us while yet
they are children, and bear them away to their own land, and give them over to their own teachers.
Thus come back your own, with power and authority to scourge you. Your sons, your brothers
come back to you, learned, praised greatly, having striven against the Feringhi in their own
schools, and won what they desired. Collector-sahib, Judge-sahib, yea, even padre-sahib, come
they back to you--not to lift you to honor and happiness beside them, but to side with those
that oppress you, to grind taxes from you who starve, to imprison you who would be free. Sons
of unspeakable shame! They drink your blood, they fatten on your misery, and they have their
reward. We curse, them, brothers! The Feringhis smile upon them, they eat bread and salt in
their company, but they spit when they have passed by!"

Something in the scornful voice rang familiarly on the Judge's ears, and incautiously he changed
his position and tried to get a clearer view of the treasonmonger. Instantly the man's bare
brown arm shot out, and pointed him to public notice.

"Here is one," pealed out the trumpet-voice, "has he come as our brother? Or comes he as the
slave of our masters, to spy upon our meetings, and to deal out punishment to those who dare
to be free? O brother, do you walk to Calcutta, where the High Courts be, over our bodies,
and the bodies of our children? Will you go to the Collector-sahib with tales of a native rising,
and call up our brothers of the police to kill and maim us? Or come you to offer us a great heart?"

The Judge stood there, a motionless figure, flaring against the dark jungle in his spotless,
white linen evening dress. There was a broad silk cummerband about his lean waist, and a gold
signet-ring gleamed on his left hand. Half a dozen Englishmen, thread for thread in similar
garb, still lounged in the Collector's drawing-room. He appeared the very symbol of Anglicized
India. The brown, half-naked mob surged and struggled to look at him. The brown, half-naked
orator still pointed at him, and waited for reply. Meanwhile, he had been recognized.

"Iswar Chandra--by Jove," muttered the Judge.

The last time they had met was in a London drawing-room. Iswar Chandra, the brilliant young
barrister-at-law had discoursed to a philanthropic peeress upon the social future of his native
land, whilst an admiring circle of auditors hung upon his words. The fate of India's women,
he had said, lay at the feet of such fair and noble ladies as her Grace. The Judge remembered
that people were saying that evening of Iswar Chandra that he was a fascinating and earnest
man, and that he would be the pioneer of great things in the country of his birth.

The eyes of the half-naked savage challenged the Judge over the sea of moving heads, and drove
away the supercilious smile from his lips.

"Brother, we claim you! You are of our blood, and we need such as you to lead us. The Feringhi
have sharpened a sword to cut us down, but it shall turn to destroy them. Brother, we suffer
the torments of hell--will you deliver us? Brother, we starve--will you give us food? Will
you deal out to us life or death, you whose fathers were as our fathers? Choose now between
great honor and the infamy that dies not! You are the paid creature of the British Raj, or
you are a leader of free men. Brother, speak!"

As in a dream the Judge approached the waiting crowd. His mouth was parched, his heart beat
fitfully. He wanted that piercing voice to wake the echoes again, to take up the story of the
old blood-feud, to goad him into doing that which he had not the courage to do. Vanished was
his pride of intellect, and of fine achievement. He was a native, and he tugged and crawled
at the stretch of the British chain.

"The Feringhi are few, and we are many. Shall the few rule the many? Shall we be servants and
poor while yet in the arms of our own golden mother? In their own country do the Feringhi not
say that the word of the majority shall be law? So be it! We accept their word. The majority
shall rule! O brother, skilled in the Feringhi craft, high-placed to administer justice to
all who are brought before thee, do I not speak the truth?"

The Judge threw away the dead end of his cigar, and shouldered his way into the inmost circle.

"Peace, thou," he said, thickly; "this is folly. Ye must wait awhile for vengeance."

Chandra threw up his arms, writhing in a very ecstasy of fury.

"We have waited--have we not waited?--beside our open graves. Death to the Feringhi! Let them
no longer desecrate our land. Let us forget that they ever were. They be few, and we be many.
Brothers! To-night, to-night!"

The Judge was tearing off his clothes, he was trampling them beneath his feet, he was crying
out in a strange, raucous voice; and all the swaying crowds were taking up his words, maddening
themselves and their fellows with the intoxicating sounds.

"Death to the Feringhi! To-night, to-night! Our land for ourselves!"

All but a few torches were extinguished. Secret places were torn up, and out came old guns,
old swords sharpened to razor-like edges, great pistols, clubs, skinning-knives, daggers. Then,
up and up through the dark jungle they thronged, hordes of them in the grip of a red and silent
frenzy. Chandra was in the forefront, but the leader was his Honor the District Judge, a glassy-eyed,
tight-lipped Mussulman in a loincloth and a greasy turban.

The lights of the Collector's bungalow came in view, and the leader thought of young Capper,
and rushed on, frothing like a madman, waving his sword above his head. Then he paused, and
ran back to meet the laggards of a yard or two.

"Only the men!" he shouted.

Chandra mocked at him as the press bore him onward again, with scarcely an instant's halt.

"Only the men, my brother!" he echoed.

A few of the native police stood guard at the Collector's gates, but they turned and fled before
the overwhelming numbers of the attacking force. Up the long drive the dark wave poured, and
into the wide, bright rooms. The bungalow was deserted. Some fleet-footed servant had brought
warning in time, and the British were well out of the town by the other road, with young Capper
and a score of his men guarding their rear.

The mob howled with disappointment. The next instant it was screaming with triumph as it settled
down to sack and burn and destroy.

The Judge went into the dining-room, and looked at the long table still decked with silver,
and glass, and flowers. He looked at the chair on which he had sat, with Joan Malcolm at his
side, and he picked it up and dashed it with all his might into a great ivory-framed mirror,
and laughed aloud at the crash, and the ruin, and the rain of jagged splinters.

"India must pass into the hands of the Indians!"

"Oh! you think so--you think so--you think so...."

He overthrew a couple of standard lamps, and watched the liquid fire run and eat up their silken
shades, and run again and leap upon the snowy curtains, and so, like lightning, spring to the
ceiling, and lick the dry rafters with a thousand darting tongues. Then, he was out in the
night again, the night of his life, the wonderful night that was calling for blood, and would
not be denied.

There was no lack of light now to make clear the path to vengeance. The Collector's bungalow
roared red to the very heavens, and flames shot up in a dozen different parts of the town.
The bazaar was looted, and English-made goods were piled upon bonfires in the street. A greater
mob than had entered the town poured out of it, swift on the road to Chinsurah where thousands
of their brothers lay, lacking only courage and leaders.

At the midway turn of the road where the giant trees rear themselves at the side of the well,
came a sudden check, and the mob fell back upon itself, and grew dead silent. Those in the
rear could only wait and guess what had happened. The forefront saw that the road was barred.
The moon had risen, and well out in the white light, was Capper Sahib. Some of his men were
behind him. There were soldiers there, too, how many could not be seen, for they were grouped
in the velvety black shadows which the trees flung across the road. There might have been only
fifty--or five hundred.

Young Capper came forward with his hands in his pockets, and stared at them. They saw that
he was not afraid. He spoke to them in Maharattee, bluntly and earnestly, so that some of them
wavered, and looked back. He said they were fools, led by a few rotten schemers who had only
personal gain in view.

"Take good advice," he said, "go to your homes while ye may. Ignorant, and greatly daring that
ye are, the bandar-log, or such thievish scum among ye, drive ye with idle words and chatterings
even to the brink of death. So far have ye come, but no farther----"

The Judge had snatched a villager's gun, and fired. Capper Sahib fell, unspoken words upon
his lips. His fair head draggled in the dust, and a red stain showed suddenly upon the white
linen over his breast.

A triumphant roar swept the mob from end to end. British rifles cracked out the answer, and
the bullets went home surely, into the rioting mass. Amid shrill screams of pain and fury the
leaders rallied their men, and charged forward. A second volley stopped them, before young
Capper's prostrate body could be reached. Few had joined the attack, but now they were fewer,
and neither of the leaders stood among them.

That was the end. Bearing their dead and wounded, the rebels returned, wailing as they went.
Before daylight the townsmen were in their houses, and the villagers had passed through the
jungle, and regained their homes. Arms were concealed with all haste. The dead were buried,
the wounded, for the most part, were hidden. Prisoners had been taken, but only an inconsiderable
number. Before daylight also, the headman of the village, and a native surgeon came stealthily
from the Judge's bungalow, and went their ways. They had their order, and they went to spread
it abroad. The order was--Silence! The headman had bowed himself to the earth when it was given,
for he understood all that it meant. Prisoners would be brought before a brother, not only
to-day, but to-morrow, and for many morrows. So much had the night given them.

At noon His Honor came stiffly into the court-room, leaning upon the arm of his native servant.
The Collector, who was awaiting him there, feared that he had been injured by the rioters on
the previous night; but he was quickly reassured. The Judge, it seemed, had sprained his knee
shortly after leaving the Malcolm's hospitable roof. It was nothing. A mere trifle, though
indisputably painful.

The Collector seated himself near the bench, and talked in a low voice. The ladies were all
safe. No Europeans had been killed, and few injured. Capper had been shot by some cowardly
dog while parleying with the rioters, but there were good hopes of him.

The Judge was most truly concerned to hear of the calamity which had befallen Mr. Capper--immensely
thankful to know that things were no worse with him.

His Honor had heard little or nothing of what had happened during the riot, being laid by the
leg, as it were, in his own room.

The first batch of prisoners was brought in. At first the Judge did not look at them. Afterward
his eyes sought their gaze, and held it, and they knew him for their brother. They heard his
soft voice speaking of them compassionately, as wayward children whom mercy would win over,
though harshness might confirm them in their foolish resistance to authority. The Collector
seemed to protest, but with gentle courtesy his objections were put aside. He leaned back in
his chair, flushed and angry, as one after another, the sullen-looking rebels were fined, and
having paid what was demanded, were set at liberty.

When the Judge looked up again, a single prisoner stood before him, a wounded, hawk-faced native,
whose eyes blazed hate and contempt. The Collector drew his chair closer to the bench, and
began to speak in gruff undertones.

"A ring-leader. Man of some education, I understand--qualified as a barrister, and has taken
to journalism. Must make an example of him--eh?"

The Judge, straining in agony of mind and body, was aware of sudden relief from the pain of
his wound. The bandage had slipped, and blood was cooling the torturing fire. A deathly faintness
was upon him, and through it he spoke distinctly--again of mercy.

"They were all blind. The leaders were blind. The blind leading the blind. Blind--blind----"

The Collector sprang up with a startled exclamation. A thin stream of blood trickled from behind
His Honor's desk, and went a twisting way down to the well of the court. He caught the Judge
in his arms as he fell forward, and lowered him gently to the ground. Then it was seen that
the unconscious man's clothes were saturated with blood.

Instantly the court was cleared. A military surgeon cut away the blood-stained clothing from
the Judge's thigh, and laid bare the clean wound made by a British bullet. A look passed between
him and the Collector, but never a word. Syed Mehta's life had ebbed with his blood, and so
he passed, unawakened, from swoon to death.

The English, as their way is, betrayed nothing. It was His Honor, the District Judge of Golampore,
who had died, and they gave him burial the next day with due regard to the high position which
he had held in the service of H.M. the King and Emperor.

V

A FOG-HORN CONCLUSION

The Story of a Gramophone

By FOX RUSSELL

THE Saucy Sally was a vessel of renown. No blustering liner, no fussy tug, no squattering steamer,
she; but a bluff-bowed, smartly painted, trim-built sailing barge, plying chiefly from the
lower reaches of the Thames to ports west of Dover. She had no equal of her class, at any point
of sailing, and certainly her Master, Mr. Joseph Pigg, was not the man to let her fair fame
suffer for want of seamanship.

"Cap'n Pigg," as he insisted upon being called, was a great, hairy-faced man, with brawny muscles
and a blood-shot eye. And in these respects, his mate, Bob Topper, greatly favored him--in
fact, their physical resemblance was rather marked; but their tastes were in no way similar;
'the Cap'n' was fond of his glass, whilst the mate was a blue-ribbon man; Joseph Pigg couldn't
bear music, in any form, whilst the total abstainer had a weakness for the flute and would
not infrequently burst into song; the Skipper hated women, whereas the mate was, what he himself
called "a bit of a gay Lathero." But notwithstanding these dissimilarities of tastes and disposition,
they got along fairly well together, and both met on the common ground of getting as much work
out of the two "hands" as was ordinarily possible. The Skipper didn't drink alcoholic liquors
before the mate, and the mate returned the compliment by refraining from any musical outrage
in the hearing of his superior officer.

One hot summer afternoon, when the Saucy Sally was taking in cargo and the Skipper was ashore,
Mr. Topper, seated on the coamings of the hatchway, abandoned himself to the melancholy pleasures
of Haydn's "Surprise," the tune being wrung out of a tarnished German-silver flute. "Kittiwake
Jack," one of the crew, was seated as far as possible for'ard, vainly trying to absorb his
tea and stop his ears, at one and the same time, whilst his fellow-sufferer, Bill Brown, having
hastily dived below, lay in his bunk, striving to deaden the weird, wailing sounds that filled
the ship. And just as Haydn's "Surprise" was half way through, for the seventh time, the Skipper
walked on board.

The flutist stopped short, and stared up at him.

"Didn't expect you back so soon, Cap'n," he said in confused tones.

"No. What's that 'owlin' row you're making?"

"I dunno about no 'owlin' row, but----"

"Well, I do. I s'pose, accordin' to you, I ain't got no musical h'ear," sneered Cap'n Pigg.

"This--this here tune----"

"Yes. This disgustin' noise--what is it?"

The mate looked sulky.

"This is Haydn's 'Surprise,'" he growled.

"So I should think. I dunno who the bloke was, but it must have given Haydn quite a turn! Don't
let's 'ave no more of it."

"Well, I don't see as there's no 'arm in music. And I didn't loose it off when you was about.
I know you don't like it, so I studied your pecooliarities. Fact is, I studies yer too much,"
and the mate looked mutinous.

Cap'n Pigg scowled.

"You shet yer 'ead," he grunted as he stamped off below. He went to a small cupboard in the
corner of the cabin, and mixed himself a stiff "go" of gin and water, which he tossed off at
one gulp, saying:

"Haydn's 'S'prise,' eh? Haydn's S'prise be d--dished! 'E don't come no s'prises 'ere while
I'm master of the Saucy Sally!"

After this slight breeze, things quickly settled down again on the old lines between master
and mate, and the voyage to Chichester Harbor was entirely uneventful, the barge bringing up
at a snug anchorage near Emsworth.

The next day Mr. Topper had undressed and gone overboard for a swim. After this, climbing up
the bobstay, he regained the deck, and proceeded to dry his hairy frame on an ancient flannel
shirt. In the midst of this occupation, temporarily forgetful of his superior officer's prejudices,
he broke into song.

Thirty seconds after he had let go the first howl, the Skipper's head was thrust up the companion-way.

"Wodjer want to make all that row about? Anything disagreed with yer? If so, why don't yer
take something for it?"

"It's a funny thing yer carn't let a man alone, when all 'e's a doin' is making a bit of 'armony
on board," replied the mate, pausing in the act of drying his shock head.

"'Armony be d--driven overboard!" cried Mr. Pigg, wrathfully. "Now, look 'ere, Bob Topper,
I ain't a onreasonable man in my likes and dislikes, but it ain't fair to sing at a feller
creature with the voice nature fitted you out with! I never done you no 'arm."

Next day the Saucy Sally shipped some shingle ballast, got under weigh on the first of the
ebb tide, and safely threading her way past the shallows and through the narrow channels of
the harbor, emerged into the open sea, and turned her bluff-bowed stem eastwards.

The following afternoon, as Bob Topper took his trick at the wheel, he ruminated on the mutability
of human affairs in general, and the "contraryness" of skippers in particular.

"Won't 'ave no music, won't he? Well, I reckon it's like religion when the missionaries is
a shovin' of it into the African niggers--they just jolly well got to 'ave it! An' so it'll
be with the ole man. I'll jest fix up a scheme as'll do 'im a treat."

He smiled broadly; and when Bob Topper smiled, the corners of his mouth seemed to almost meet
at the back of his head.

And as soon as the Saucy Sally had pitched and tossed her way up channel--for she was light
as a cork in ballast--and dropped anchor a little way off Gravesend, Bob Topper sculled himself
ashore. Twenty minutes after stepping out of the boat, he was seated in the back-parlor of
a friend, a musical-instrument maker.

When Mr. Topper went aboard again, he carried under his arm a large brown paper package, which
he smuggled below, without encountering the Skipper, who was in his cabin at the time, communing
with a bill of lading and a glass of Hollands neat. And, soon after the mate had come aboard,
"the Cap'n" went ashore.

And then Mr. Topper laid himself out for some tranquil enjoyment, on quite an unusual scale.
He unfastened the package, produced a gramophone, brought it on to the deck, and started "The
Washington Post."

"Kittiwake Jack" and Bill Brown immediately fled below.

The mate sat on the edge of the hatch and gazed lovingly at the new instrument of torture,
as he beat time to the inspiring strains, with a belaying pin. When the "Washington Post,"
was finished, he laid on "Jacksonville," with a chorus of human laughter, which sounded quite
eerie. And so intent was he on this occupation, that he never even noticed the approach of
Cap'n Pigg's boat until it was almost alongside.

The Skipper clambered aboard, looking black as thunder. This new outrage was not to be borne.
Just as his foot touched the deck the instrument gave forth its unholy cachinnation of "Ha!
Ha! Ha!" in the high nasal tones peculiar to its kind.

Cap'n Pigg was not easily disconcerted, but this ghostly "Ha! Ha! Ha!" was a distinct trial
to his nerves; he thrust his hands deep into his coat pockets, glared at the mate, and then
growled:

"Wodjer got there? More 'armony?"

"Grammarphone," was the mate's brief reply. He was getting sulky.

"Grammar be blowed! Worst grammar I ever 'eard," returned Pigg. "Turn the bloomin' thing off--and
turn it off at the main. Enough to give any respectable, law-abidin' sailor-man the 'ump!"

He proceeded two steps down the companion; then hurled this parting shot at the offending mate:

"You oughter be 'ead of a laundry where the 'andle of the mangle turns a pianer-horgan as well--work
and play!" he concluded scornfully, as he disappeared from the musician's sight below.

The mate whistled softly; then he stopped the offending instrument and conveyed it below.

"P'raps the old man'll be glad of it, one o' these days," he muttered mysteriously.

The next trip of the Saucy Sally was a more eventful one. She left Tilbury in a light haze,
which first thickened into a pale-colored fog, and then, aided by the smoke from the tall chimneys,
to a regular "pea-souper." The mate, taking advantage of the Captain's spell below, brought
up a long yard of tin, which looked remarkably like the Saucy Sally's fog-horn, and quietly
slipped it overboard.

As they got lower and lower down the river, the fog increased, and both Cap'n Pigg and Topper
experienced a certain amount of anxiety as, first another barge, then a tramp steamer, and
finally, a huge liner, all sounding their fog-horns loudly, passed them considerably too close
for comfort. The Skipper himself was at the wheel and, coughing the raw, damp fog out of his
throat, he shouted hoarsely to Topper:

"Better get our fog-horn goin', mate."

"Aye, aye, Skipper. It's in your cabin, ain't it?"

"Yes, in the first locker."

The mate descended the companion-steps, with a mysterious smile on his face, and his dexter
optic closed. The casual observer might have thought that Mr. Topper was actually indulging
in a wink.

After a time, he reappeared on deck, walked aft, and said:

"Fog-horn don't seem nowheres about, Skipper. Thought you always kept her in your charge."

Cap'n Pigg whisked the wheel round just in time to escape a tug, fussing up-stream, and feeling
her way through the fog at half-speed, and then he grunted sourly:

"So I do. What the d--delay in findin' it is, I can't understand. 'Ere, ketch 'old o' the spokes,
and I'll go; always got to do everything myself on this old tank, seems to me."

And thus grumbling, Cap'n Pigg went below--not altogether unwillingly, as, being a man who
understood the importance of economizing time, he combined his search for the fog-horn with
the quenching of a highly useful thirst. But when he came on deck again, wiping his mouth with
the back of his hand, he was unaccompanied by the fog-horn.

"Where the blamed thing's got to, I dunno, more'n the dead. I see it there, myself, not two
days ago, but it ain't nowheres to be found now."

"Rather orkard, Skipper, ain't it, in all this maze o' shippin'?" returned Mr. Topper with
a half turn at the wheel.

"Yes, I don't more'n 'arf like it," returned the Cap'n uneasily. "My nerves arn't quite what
they was. An' a fog's a thing as I never could abide."

On glided the Saucy Sally, almost the only one on the great water way which spoke not, in the
midst of a babel of confusing sounds. Syrens whooped, steam whistles shrieked hoarsely; the
raucous voices of fog-horns proclaimed the whereabouts of scores of craft, passing up and down
the river; but the trim-built barge slid noiselessly along, ghost-like, in the dun-colored
"smother," giving no intimation of her proximity.

Then it was that Mr. Bob Topper's moment for action arrived. In casual tones, he observed to
the Skipper:

"Pity, we ain't got something as'll make a sound o' some kind, so's to let people know as we
're a-comin'."

Cap'n Pigg said nothing: but the anxiety deepened perceptibly in his face.

"Where the blank blank are yer comin' to?" roared the voice of another bargeman, as, tooting
loudly on a fog-horn, one of the "Medway flyers," shaved past them.

"Near thing, that," observed the mate, calmly.

Cap'n Pigg went a shade paler beneath the tan on his weather-beaten face.

"Cuss 'im! careless 'ound!" he muttered. "Might a' sunk us."

"'Ad no proper lookout, I expect," returned Mr. Topper, "even if 'e 'ad, 'e couldn't see anything,
and we got no fog-'orn to show 'em where we was, yer see."

"No. An' p'raps we shall go to the bottom, all along o' our 'aving lost our ole bit o' tin.
It's a orful thing to think of, ain't it?" said Cap'n Pigg solemnly.

The mate appeared to be in a brown study. Then, as though he had suddenly been inspired, he
exclaimed:

"What about the grammarphone, Skipper?"

Even in the midst of his perturbation, Cap'n Pigg looked askance at mention of the hated instrument.
But it was a case of 'any port in a storm,' and, with a grim nod, he relieved the mate at the
wheel, and said:

"Fetch the bloomin' consarn up."

Mr. Topper obeyed, with alacrity in his step, and a wink in his eye. The 'consarn' was quickly
brought on deck, and the 'Washington Post' let loose on the astonished ears of fog-smothered
mariners, right and left of them.

One old shell-back, coming up river on a Gravesend shrimper, listened in blank astonishment
for a minute, and then confided huskily to his mate that he thought their time had come.

"'Eavenly, strains! It's wot they calls 'the music o' the spears,'" he said mysteriously, "Hangels'
music wot comes just before a bloke's time's up. We better prepare for the wust."

His mate, less superstitious and with more common sense, rejoined:

"Garn! 'Music o' the spears' be blowed! It's more like a pianer-horgan or a 'urdy-gurdy."

The shrimper glided on, and a tramp steamer, going dead slow, just shaved past the musical
barge. Its master roared derisively from the bridge:

"'Ullo, barge, ahoy! Wot yer got there? Punch and Judy show aboard?"

Which cost Cap'n Pigg a nasty twinge. He had always prided himself on his seaman-like ways,
and to proceed thus, down the great river, like a mountebank, or a Cockney out on a Bank Holiday,
hurt his feelings more than he could say.

Yet another insult was to be hurled at the Saucy Sally, for "Jacksonville," with its weird
human chorus, having been turned on--when the "Ha! Ha! Ha!" rang out on the ears of a passing
tug's captain, that outraged gentleman, thinking he was being personally derided, shouted,
as the tide swept them out of sight:

"Yah! 'Oo yer larfin' at? Set o' bloomin' monkeys!"

But the gramophone was certainly playing a useful part in warning others off the Saucy Sally,
down that fog-laden river. And, when, at the end of their day's slow journey, they let go their
anchor, the "Washington Post" was again nasally shrieking out its march-time glories.

The mate stopped the machine and carried it tenderly below, then, returning to the deck, he
observed.

"Good job as we 'ad the grammarphone aboard, Cap'n."

Cap'n Pigg swallowed a lump in his throat, and looked like a child confronted with a dose of
nauseous medicine, as he gruffly replied:

"It's better n' nothin' when yer wants a row made."

A pause ensued, and then the Skipper went on:

"In future, I don't object--not very much--to the dammarphone--grammarphone, I mean--If you
can stand music, well, so can I. But you can't contrarst the beauty o' the two instruments,
and I'm goin' ashore, straight away, to buy myself a good, old-fashioned fog-'orn. The tone
of that is altogether more 'armonious and more soothin' to the hear, than that there beastly
grammarphone ever could be!"

The mate heaved a deep sigh and sorrowfully went below. In the effort to ram music into his
superior officer he had to admit himself defeated.

VI

MARY JANE'S DIVERSION

A Western Tale

By CHARLES ALDEN SELTZER

TEXAS RANKIN stood in the street in front of the High Card Saloon, his lank body trembling
with surprise, indecision, and indignation; his face alight with the fire of outraged dignity.
Three long paces from him stood Sheriff Webster, indifferently fondling an ivory-handled .45.

The sheriff was nonchalantly deliberative in his actions, betraying only a negative interest
in Rankin's movements--for Rankin's holster yawned with eloquent emptiness. With his empty
holster dragging on his desires, it seemed to Rankin that to await the sheriff's pleasure was
his most logical course.

And so he waited.

The sheriff had come upon him, when, in an incautious moment, he had emerged from the High
Card Saloon, having forgotten the very important fact that the sheriff was looking for him.
This forgetfulness had been the cause of his undoing, for at the instant he had turned to go
down the street the sheriff had reached for his gun. The empty holster was evidence of his success.

After that there was no use in getting excited. True, Texas had flashed around in his tracks
when he had felt the gun leaving its holster, and had made a lightning movement with his hand
to prevent such a disgraceful occurrence. But he might just as well have reached for a rainbow.
As he had faced about, rage-flushed and impotent, he saw his gun swinging loosely in Webster's
left hand, while in Webster's right hand another big six-shooter had reached a foreboding level.

The distance between the two men approximated ten feet; for Webster had wisely stepped back,
knowing Rankin's reluctance toward submission.

And now, over the ten feet of space, captive and captor surveyed one another with that narrowing
of the eyes which denotes tension and warns of danger.

"I reckon I was too quick for you, Texas," said Webster, with a gentleness that fell too softly
to be genuine.

Rankin gazed dolefully at his empty holster. The skin tensed over his teeth in a grinning sneer.

"I ain't sayin' that you took a mean advantage," he said, raising his eyes and allowing them
an expression of mild innocence that contrasted strangely with his drawn lips, "but you might
have given me a chance to fight it out square. I wouldn't have took your gun, Jim."

Knowing Texas less intimately, the sheriff might have been misled by this crude sentiment;
but the sheriff's fingers only drew more closely around the ivory handle of his .45. And there
came a glint of humor into his eyes.

"I ain't sayin' you would, Texas. But as sheriff of Socorro County I ain't takin' any chances.
I wanted to talk to you, an' I knew if I had your gun I'd feel easier."

"Which means that you didn't want me to have a chance," complained Texas glumly. "Socorro's
always been meaner'n ----"

"'T ain't Socorro's fault," interrupted the sheriff with a sudden coldness; "you've been cuttin'
didoes in Socorro for so long a time that you've disgraced yourself. You've gambled an' shot
yourself into disfavor with the élite. You've been as ornery an' as compromisin' as it's possible
for any human maverick to get without havin' to requisition the unwillin' mourners."

"Not that I'm sayin' you're naturally bad, Texas. It's that you've got an overdose of what
them modern brain specialists call exaggerated ego; which us common critters would call plain
swell head. That there disease is listed an' catalogued in the text books of the New York Medical
Institoot as bearin' a close relationship to the geni Loco; which is a scientific way of sayin'
that you've got buzzers in your attic."

Texas smiled, showing his teeth in wan sarcasm.

"You wouldn't say that if I had my gun, Jim. It ain't like you to pour out your blackguardisms
on a man what ain't armed."

"I ain't blackguardin' you none," said Webster easily. "It's the naked truth, an' you know
it. Takin' your gun was part of my official duty. Personally I could have talked to you without
trampling down any of the niceties of etiquette, but officially I had to have your gun."

Rankin's face lengthened with a deep melancholy. With this expression he intended to convey
the impression that he was suffering a martyrdom. But the sheriff's acquaintance with Texas
was not recent.

"An' now that you've got the gun," said Texas, after an embarrassed silence, "what's the next
thing on the programme?"

"Takin' your gun," said the sheriff heavily, "was a preliminary; like they say in the sporting
papers. The big event is that you're goin' to say your adoos to Socorro without bein' allowed
to make any farewell announcement. The reason is that you an' Socorro is incongruous--like
a side-saddle on a razor-back hog. Socorro won't stand for you a minute longer. You're a Public
Favorite which has lost its popularity an' which has become heterogeneous to the established
order of things. In other words, you're an outlaw; a soft-spoken, lazy, good-for-nothin' road-agent.
An' though Socorro ain't never had anything on you before, it knows you had a hand in robbin'
the express office last night. An' it's----"

"You're a damn ----"

"----like playin' a king-full against three deuces that you done the trick. You was seen goin'
toward the station about an hour before Budd Tucker found Ridgely, the agent, stretched out
on the floor of the office, a bullet from a .45 clean through him. An' there's five thousand
dollars in gold gone, an' no trace of it. An' there's been no strangers in town. An' here's
your gun, showin' plain that it's been shot off lately, for there's the powder smudge on the
cylinder an' the barrel. That's a pay streak of circumstantial evidence or I ain't sheriff
of Socorro!"

Rankin's eyes had flashed with an unusual brilliancy as the sheriff had spoken of him being
seen going toward the station previous to the finding of the agent's body, but they glazed
over with unconcern during the rest of the recital. And as the sheriff concluded, Rankin gazed
scornfully at him, sneering mildly:

"I couldn't add nothin' to what you've just said." He idly kicked the gray dust that was mounded
at his feet, standing loose and inert, as though he cared little what might be the outcome
of this impromptu interview. And then, suddenly, his blue eyes twinkled humorously as he raised
them to meet the sheriff's.

"Give you time you might tell me where I spent the money," he said drily. "There's no tellin'
where your theorizin' might end."

The sheriff ignored this, but he eyed his prisoner meditatively.

"There's been a rumor," he said coldly, "that you've got cracked on my daughter, Mary Jane.
But I ain't never been able to properly confirm it. I meant to tell you some time ago that
while I ain't had no objection to livin' in the same town with you, I'm some opposed to havin'
you for a son-in-law. But now, since the express robbery, it won't be necessary for me to tell
you not to nose around my house, for you're goin' to ride straight out of Socorro County, an'
you ain't comin' back any more. If you do, I reckon you'll discover that Socorro's present
leniency ain't elastic enough to be stretched to cover your home-comin'."

"I ain't sayin' nothin'," said Texas, glancing with pensive eyes to a point far up the sun-baked
street where his gaze rested upon a pretentious house in a neatly-fenced yard where there were
green things that gave a restful impression. "Circumstantial evidence is sure convincin'."
he sighed deeply. "I reckon you knowed all along that I thought a heap of Mary Jane. That's
the reason you picked me out for the express job."

He scowled as his eyes took in the meagre details of Socorro's one street. Because of long
association these details had become mental fixtures. Socorro had been his home for ten years,
and in ten years things grow into a man's heart. And civic pride had been his one great virtue.
If in the summer the alkali dust of the street formed into miniature hills of grayish white
which sifted into surrounding hollows under the whipping tread of the cow-pony's hoofs, Texas
likened it unto ruffled waters that seek a level. The same condition in another town would
have drawn a curse from him. If in the winter the huge windrows of caked mud stretched across
the street in unlovely phalanx, Texas was reminded of itinerant mountain ranges. The stranger
who would be so unwary as to take issue with him on this point would regret--if he lived. The
unpainted shanties, the huddled, tottering dives, the tumble-down express station--all, even
the maudlin masquerade of the High Card Saloon--were institutions inseparable from his thoughts,
inviolable and sacred in the measure of his love for them.

And now! Something caught in his throat and gave forth a choking sound.

"But I reckon it's just as well," he said resignedly. "I sure ain't of much account." He hesitated
and smiled weakly at the sheriff. "I ain't croakin'," he said apologetically; "there's the
circumstantial evidence." He hesitated again, evidently battling a ponderous question. "You
didn't happen to hear Mary Jane say anything about the express job?" he questioned with an
expression of dog-like hopefulness. "Anything that would lead you to believe she knowed about it?"

"I don't see what----"

"No, of course!" He shuffled his feet awkwardly. "An' so she don't know anything. Didn't mention
me at all?" The hopefulness was gone from his eyes, and in its place was the dull glaze of
puzzled wonder. "Not that it makes any difference," he added quickly, as he caught a sudden
sharp glance from the sheriff's eyes.

"An' so I'm to leave Socorro." He looked dully at the sheriff. "Why, of course, there's the
circumstantial evidence." His eyes swept the shanties, the street, the timber-dotted sides
of the mountains that rose above the town--familiar landmarks of his long sojourn; landmarks
that brought pleasant memories.

"I've lived here a long time," he said, with abrupt melancholy, his voice grating with suppressed
regret. "I won't forget soon."

There ensued a silence which lasted long. It brought a suspicious lump into the sheriff's throat.

"I wouldn't take it so hard, Texas," he said gently. "Mebbe it'll be the best for you in the
long run. If you get away from here mebbe you make a man----"

"Quit your damn croakin'!" flashed back Texas. "I ain't askin' for none of your mushy sentiment!"
He straightened up suddenly and smiled with set lips. "I guess I've been a fool. If you'll
hand over that six-shooter I'll be goin'. I've got business in San Marcial."

"I'll walk up to the station platform an' lay the gun there," said the sheriff coldly; for
Texas was less dangerous at a distance; "an' when you see me start away from the platform you
can start for the gun. I'm takin' your word that you'll leave peaceable."

And so, with his gun again in its holster, Texas threw himself astride his Pinto pony and loped
down toward the sloping banks of the Rio Grande del Norte.

A quarter of a mile from town he halted on the bare knob of a low hill and took a lingering
look at the pretentious house amid the green surroundings.

Near the house was something he had not seen when he had looked before--the flutter of a white
dress against the background of green. As he looked the white figure moved rapidly through
the garden and disappeared behind the house.

"She didn't say a word," said Texas chokingly.

       *        *       *       *       *

Ten hours out of Socorro Texas Rankin rode morosely into San Marcial. Into San Marcial the
unbeautiful, with its vista of unpainted shanties and lurid dives. For in San Marcial foregathered
the men of the mines and the ranges; men of forgotten morals, but of brawn and muscle, whose
hearts beat not with a yearning for high ideals, but with a lust for wealth and gain--white,
Indian, Mexican, half-breed; predatory spirits of many nations, opposed in the struggle for
existence.

For ten hours Texas had ridden the river trail, and for ten hours his ears had been burdened
with the dull beat of his pony's hoofs on the matted mesquite grass, and the rattle of his
wooden stirrups against the chaparral growth. And for ten hours his mind had been confused
with a multitude of perplexities and resentments.

But all mental confusions reach a culminating point when the mind finally throws aside the
useless chaff of thought and considers only the questions that have to do with the heart. Wherefore,
Texas Rankin's mind dwelt on Mary Jane. Subconsciously his mind harbored rebellion against
her father, who had judged him; against Socorro, which had misunderstood him; against Fate,
which had been unjust. All these atoms of personal interest were elements of a primitive emotion
that finally evolved into one great concrete determination that he would show Jim Webster,
Socorro, Mary Jane--the world, that he was not the creature they had thought him. Tearing aside
all mental superfluities, there was revealed a new structure of thought:

"I am goin' to be a man again!"

And so Texas rode his tired pony in the gathering dusk; down the wide street that was beginning
to flicker with the shafts of light from grimy windows; down to the hitching rail in front
of the Top Notch Saloon--where he dismounted and stood stiffly beside his beast while he planned
his regeneration.

       *        *       *       *       *

Half an hour later Texas sat opposite a man at a card table in the rear of the Top Notch Saloon.

The man conversed easily, but it was noticeable that he watched Texas with cat-like vigilance,
and that he poured his whiskey with his left hand.

Ordinarily Texas would have noticed this departure from the polite rules, but laboring under
the excitement that his new determination brought him he was careless. For he had planned his
regeneration, and his talk with the man was the beginning.

"You lifted the express box at Socorro, Buck!" said Texas, so earnestly that the table trembled.

Buck Reible, gambler, outlaw, murderer, pushed back his broad-brimmed hat with his hand--always
he used his left--and gazed with level, menacing eyes at Texas. His lips parted with a half-sneer.

"If a man does a job nowadays, there's always some one wants in on it!" he declared, voicing
his suspicion of Rankin's motive in bringing up the subject. "Because you was lucky in bein'
close when the game come off is the reason you want a share of the cash," he added satirically.
"How much----"

"Go easy, Buck," said Texas. "I ain't no angel, but I never played your style. I ain't askin'
for a share."

"Then what in----"

"It's a new deal," declared Texas heavily. "A square deal. You took five thousand dollars out
of Socorro, an' you salivated the agent doin' it. Jim Webster thought it was me, an' I was
invited to a farewell performance in which I done the starrin'. Some night-prowler saw me down
near the station just before you made your grand entrée, an'----"

"Serves you right for spoonin' with a female so close to where gentlemen has business," said
Buck. "I saw her when you come toward me shootin'."

"An' what makes it more aggravatin'," continued Texas, unmoved by the interruption; "is that
the lady was Jim Webster's daughter, an' we was thinkin' of gettin' married. But we didn't
want Jim to know just then, an' she told me to keep mum, seein' that Jim was opposed. She said
we'd keep it secret until----"

"I admire the lady's choice," said Buck, sneering ironically.

"----until I braced up an' was a man again," went on Texas, with bull-dog persistency.

"Then you wasn't thinkin' of gettin' married soon," slurred Buck.

"I reckon we was," returned Texas coldly; "that's why I came here. I'm goin' to take that five
thousand back to Socorro with me!"

And now Buck used his right hand. But quick as he was, he was late. Rankin's gun gaped at him
across the table the while his own weapon lagged tardily half-way in its holster.

"I'm goin' to be a man again," said Texas. There was a positiveness in his voice that awoke
thoughts of death and violence.

"You damn----" began Buck.

"I'll count ten," said Texas frigidly. "If the money ain't on the table then I reckon you won't
care what becomes of it!"

"One!--Two!"

With a snarl of rage and hate Buck rose from his chair and sprang clear, his gun flashing to
a level with the movement, its savage roar shattering the silence.

Texas did not wince as the heavy bullet struck him, but his face went white. He had been a
principal in more than one shooting affray, and experience had taught him the value of instantaneous
action. And so, even with the stinging pain in his left shoulder, his hand swept his gun lightly
upward, and before it had reached a level he had begun to pull the trigger. But to his astonishment
only the metallic click, click of the hammer striking the steel of the cylinder rewarded his
efforts. Once, twice, thrice; so rapidly that the metallic clicks blended.

And now he saw why he was to meet his death at the muzzle of Buck's gun. Fearing him, Jim Webster
had removed the cartridges from his weapon before returning it to him that morning. He had
committed a fatal error in not examining it after he had received it from Webster's hand. The
Law, in judging him, had removed his chance of life.

But he smiled with bitter irony into Buck's eyes as the latter, still snarling and relentless,
deliberately shot again; once, twice.

       *        *       *       *       *

According to the ancient custom--which has many champions--and to the conventions--which are
not to be violated with impunity--Texas should have recovered from his wounds to return to
Mary Jane and Socorro. No narrative is complete without the entire vindication of the brave
and the triumph of the honorable. But to the chronicler belongs only the simple task of true
and conscientious record.

Therefore is the end written thus:

Came to Jim Webster's home in Socorro a week later a babbler from San Marcial, who told a tale:

"There was a man by the name of Texas Rankin came down to San Marcial last week an' went gunnin'
for Buck Reible. Quickest thing you ever saw. Buck peppered him so fast you couldn't count;
an' I'm told Texas wasn't no slouch with a gun, either."

"Dead?" questioned Webster.

"As a door nail," returned the babbler.

"Socorro's bad man," said Webster, sententiously. "Wasn't a bit of good in him. Gamblin', shootin',
outlaw. Best job Buck ever done."

He found Mary Jane in the kitchen, singing over the supper dishes.

"Texas Rankin is dead over at San Marcial," he said, with the importance of one communicating
delectable news.

Mary Jane continued with her dishes, looking at her father over her shoulder with a mild unconcern.

"At San Marcial?" she said wonderingly. "I didn't know he had left Socorro!"

"A week now," returned Webster with much complacence. "Fired him from Socorro for doin' that
express job. Socorro's bad enough without Texas----"

His mouth opened with dumb astonishment as Mary Jane whirled around on him with a laugh on
her lips.

"Why, dad! Texas Rankin didn't do that job! It was Buck Reible. Texas told me the night it
happened. We were walking down near the station and we heard some shooting. I wasn't close
enough to see plainly, but Texas said he could recognize Buck by the flash of his gun. And
so Texas is dead!"

"I thought," said Webster feebly, "that you was pretty sweet on Texas."

"Sweet!" said Mary Jane, blushing with maidenly modesty. "Socorro is so dull. A young lady
must have some diversion."

"Then you don't care----"

"Why, dad! You old sobersides. To think--why I was only fooling with him. It was fun to see
how serious----"

"In that case----" began Webster. And then he went out and sat on the front stoop.

Far into the night he sat, and always he stared in the direction of San Marcial.

VII

BETWEEN FRIENDS

A Story of the Italian Quarter

By ADRIANA SPADONI

VINCENZA looked from the three crisp dollar bills to her husband, and back again, wonderingly
and with fear in her eyes.

"I understand nothing, Gino, and I am afraid. Perhaps it will bring the sickness, the money--it
is of the devil, maybe----"

Luigi laughed, but a little uneasily. "It is time, then, that the devil went to paradise; he
makes better for us than the saints, to whom you pray so----"

"S-sh!" Vincenza crossed herself quickly. "That is a great wickedness."

Luigi picked up the bills, examining them closely. Apparently they were good. Nevertheless
he put them down again, and went on carving a wooden cow for the little Carolina, with a puzzled
look in his black eyes.

"Gino," Vincenza stopped undressing the baby suddenly when the thought came to her. "Go thou
and ask Biaggio. He has been many years in this country, and, besides, he is also a Genovese.
He will tell thee."

Luigi's eyes cleared, but he condescended to make no reply. It is not for a man to take the
advice of a woman. But when it was dark, and Vincenza had gone to lie down with the Little
One, Luigi took his hat and went over to the shop of Biaggio Franchini.

Biaggio listened attentively; his pudgy hands, crossed on his stomach, rose and fell with the
undulations of the rolls of flesh beneath. From time to time he ceased for a moment the contemplation
of the strings of garlic and sausage that hung from the fly-specked ceiling of his diminutive
shop, and turned his little black eyes sharply on Luigi.

"So," he said at last, "to-day a lady came to thy house, and after to ask many questions left
these three dollars. It was in this way?"

"Just so," replied Luigi, "and questions the most marvelous I have ever heard. And in this
country, where everyone asks the questions. How long that I do not work, and if we have to
eat?" Luigi laughed; "of a surety, Biaggio, she asked that. She sees that we live--and she
asks if we eat--ma! chè! And then, if we have every day the meat? When I said once, sometimes
twice in the week--thou knowest it is not possible to have more often, when one waits to buy
the house--then it was she put on the table the three dollars, and gave me a paper to sign----"

"Thou didst sign nothing?" Biaggio spoke eagerly.

"No. Once I signed the paper in English and it cost me two dollars; not again. I said I could
not write, and she wrote for me."

"Bene," Biaggio nodded approval. "It is not thy writing. It can do nothing."

"Perhaps it is because I voted twice at the election last week? But already I have taken the
money for that. It was one only dollar. I----"

"Non, non, it is not that. Listen!" Slowly Biaggio shut both eyes, as if to keep out the tremendous
light that had dawned upon him, and nodded his head knowingly. Then he opened them, shifted
his huge bulk upright, and clapped Luigi on the knee.

"Thou art in great luck friend," he cried, "and it is well that thou hast asked me. If thou
hadst gone to another, to a man not honest, who knows? Listen. In our country when a rich man
dies, he leaves always something for the poor, but he leaves it to the church and it is the
fathers who give away the money. Corpo di Bacco! what that means thou knowest well. Sometimes
a little gets to the poor. Sometimes---- But in this country it is not so. He leaves to a society.
There are many. And they pay the women, and sometimes the men, to give away the money----"

"Santo Cristo," gasped Luigi, "they pay to give away the money?"

"For them it is a job like any other. Didst think it was for love of thee or the red curls
of thy Vincenza?"

"Marvelous, most marvelous," murmured Luigi, "and it is possible then for all people to get----"

"Ma, that no one can explain," and Biaggio shrugged his shoulders; in a gesture of absolute
inability to solve the problem.

"She will come then again, this lady?" Luigi leaned forward eagerly. He was beginning to grasp it.

"It is for thee to say stop, my son, if thou hast in thy head anything but fat. But thou art
a Genovese. Only I say," Biaggio laid a grimy thumb across his lips and winked knowingly--"Tell
to none."

"Thanks, many thanks friend," Luigi's voice was deeply grateful, "perhaps some day I can do
for thee----?"

"It is nothing--nothing," insisted Biaggio, patting the air with his pudgy hands in a gesture
of denial, "a little kindness between friends."

At great inconvenience to himself, Biaggio held the door open to give Luigi more light in crossing
the street. As he closed it and turned out the gas, he smiled to himself. "And each bottle
of oil will cost thee ten cents more, friend. Business is business, and yesterday thy Vincenza
returned the carrots because they were not fresh. Ecco!"

Back in his own room, Luigi folded the three notes neatly, while Vincenza watched him, her
gray eyes wide with wonder.

"Marvelous, marvelous," she whispered just as Luigi had done, "to-night I thank the Virgin."

As Biaggio had foretold, the Lady in Fur came every day. Luigi did not understand all that
she said, but he always listened politely and smiled, with his dark eyes and his lips and his
glistening white teeth. It made her feel very old to see Luigi smile like that, when he had
to live in one room with a leaking water pipe and a garbage can outside the door. Sometimes
she was almost ashamed to offer the three dollars, and she was grateful for the gentle, sweet
way Luigi accepted it.

Then one day when the air was thick with snow, and the air in the tenement halls cut like needles
of ice and the lamps had to be lit at two o'clock, the Lady in Brown Fur came unexpectedly.
She had found work for Luigi. She kissed the Little One, patted Vincenza's shoulder and shook
hands with Luigi. Again and again she made him repeat the name and address to make sure he
had it quite right. The Lady in Brown Fur was very happy. When she went Vincenza leaned far
over the banisters with the lamp while Luigi called out in his soft, broken English, directions
for avoiding the lines of washing below and the refuse piled in dark turns of the stairs. When
the Lady in Brown Fur had disappeared Vincenza turned to Luigi.

"Of a surety, cara, the saints are good. Never before didst thou work before April. In the
new house we will keep for ourselves two rooms.

"These people have the 'pull' even more than the alderman, Biaggio says," replied Luigi with
a dreamy look in his eyes. "It may be that from this work I shall take three dollars each day."

"Madonna mia," gasped Vincenza, "it is beyond belief."

       *        *       *       *       *

For five days Luigi stood four hours each afternoon, bent forward, to the lifting of a cardboard
block, while Hugh Keswick painted, as he had not painted for months, the tense muscles under
the olive skin, the strong neck and shoulders. The Building of the Temple advanced rapidly.
And Luigi's arms and back ached so that each night Vincenza had to rub them with the oil which
now cost ten cents more in the shop of Biaggio.

On the Sixth day Luigi refused to go.

"I tell thee it is a stupidness--to stand all day with the pain in the back. For what? Fifty
cents. It is a work for old men and children----"

"But thou canst not make the money, sitting in thy chair, with thy feet on the stove, like now----"

"Dost thou wish then that I have every night the knives in my back? If so----"

"Not so, caro, but----"

"Listen. You understand nothing and talk as a woman. A lady comes to my house. She says--you
have no work, here is money. Then she comes and says--here is work. But at this work I make
not so much as before she gave; and in addition, I have the pain in the back. Ecco, when she
comes again, I no longer have the work. It is her job to give away the money. She is not a
fool, that Lady in Brown Fur. It is that I make her a kindness. Not so?"

"As thou sayest," and Vincenza went on with her endless washing.

But when the week passed and the Lady in Brown Fur did not come, Luigi's forehead wrinkled
with the effort to understand. When the second had gone, Luigi was openly troubled. When the
third was half over, he again took his hat and went over to the shop of Biaggio.

As before Biaggio listened attentively, his eyes closed, until Luigi had finished. Then he
opened them, made a clicking noise with his tongue, and laid one finger along the side of his nose.

"Holy Body of Christ," he said softly, "in business thou hast the head like a rock. In one
curl of thy Vincenza there is more sense than in all thy great body. Did I not tell thee to
be careful, and it would stop only when thou didst wish. And now, without to ask my advice,
you make the stupidness, bah----"

"Ma, Dio mio," Luigi's hands made angry protest against the invective of Biaggio, "I said only
like a man of sense. It is her job, it make no difference----"

"Blood of the Lamb! Thou hast been in America eight months, and thou dost not know that they
are mad, all quite mad, to work? Never do they stop. Even after to have fifty years, think,
fifty years, still they work. They work even with the children old enough to keep them. For
many months The Skinny One, she who gives milk to the baby of Giacomo, had the habit to find
him such work, like the foolishness of your painter. And Giacomo has already three children
more than fifteen. Ma----" Biaggio snorted his contempt. Then suddenly his manner changed.
He leaned back in his chair, and apparently dismissed the subject with a wave of his fat hand.

"And the little Carolina she is well in this weather of the devil?" But Luigi did not answer.
He was thinking with a pucker between his black eyes. Biaggio watched him narrowly. At last
he spoke, looking fixedly at the sausages above his head.

"Of course--it--is--possible--you have made a--mistake--but----"

Luigi leaned forward eagerly. "It is possible then to----"

"All things are possible," Biaggio nodded his head at the sausages, blinking like a large,
fat owl. Then he stopped.

"Perhaps, you will tell--to me," Luigi was forced to it at last.

Biaggio gave a little grunt as if he were being brought back from a deep meditation. "There
is a way," he said slowly. "If thou write to her of the Brown Fur that thou art sick and cannot
do the work----"

"But never in my life was I better. Only last week Giacomo said I have grown fat. How the----"

"It is possible," replied Biaggio wearily, "to be sick of a sickness that makes one neither
thin nor white. With a sickness--of the legs like the rheumatism, for example, one eats, one
sleeps, only one cannot walk or stand for many hours."

In spite of his efforts to the contrary, the wonder and admiration grew deeper in Luigi's eyes.
"Thou thinkest the----?"

"I am sure," now that Luigi was reduced to the proper state of humility Biaggio gave up his
attitude of distant oracle, and leaned close. "Thou hast made a mistake, but it is not too
late. If thou dost wish I will write it for thee."

"If thou sayest," replied Luigi and now it was his turn to gaze at the strings of garlic, "if
you will do this favor."

"With pleasure," Biaggio's fat hands made little gestures of willingness to oblige. "Of a truth
it is not much, but when one wishes to buy the house, and already the family is begun, two
dollars and a half each week----"

Luigi glanced at him sharply. "Two and----"

Biaggio drew the ink to him and dipped his pen. "Two and a half for thee, and for me----"

"Bene, bene," Luigi interrupted quickly, "it is only just."

"Between friends," explained Biaggio as he began to write.

"Between friends," echoed Luigi, and added to himself, "closer than the skin of a snake art
thou--friend."

The Lady in the Brown Fur came next day. She had been very angry and disappointed in Luigi,
too angry and disappointed to go near him. Now she felt very sorry and uncomfortable when she
saw his right leg stretched out before, so stiff that he could not bend it. He smiled and made
the motion of getting up, but could not do it, and sank back again with a gesture of helplessness
more eloquent than words. When the Lady in Brown Fur had gone, Vincenza found an extra bill,
brand new, tucked into the pocket of the little Carolina.

Luigi waited until he was quite sure that Biaggio would be alone. There was a look of real
sorrow in his dark eyes as he slipped a shiny quarter across the counter. "She left only two,"
he explained, "the reason I do not know. Perhaps next time----"

"It is nothing, nothing between friends." Biaggio slipped the quarter into the cigar box under
the counter and smiled a fat smile at Luigi. But he did not hold the door open when Luigi went,
and his little eyes were hard like gimlet points. "So," he whispered softly. "So. One learns
quickly, very quickly in this new country. Only two dollars this time. Bene, Gino mio, the
price of sausage, as that of oil, goes up--between friends."

"Whatyer mean?" said Mr. Watkins suspiciously. "One 'ud think you were trying to make out I'd
been put away."

"Oh!" said Porson, too staggered to continue the conversation.

IX

A FO'C'S'LE TRAGEDY

An Ancient Mariner's Yarn

By PERCY LONGHURST

"YEH may gas about torpedoes an' 'fernal machines an' such like, but yeh can't learn me nothin';
onct I had t' do wi' suthin' o' th' sort that turned th' heads o' a dozen men from black ter
white in 'bout ten minutes," and the ancient mariner looked at me with careful impressiveness.

"Bad, eh?" I inquired.

"Sh'd think it was--for them poor chaps."

"Didn't turn your hair white, Uncle?"

"Gue-e-ss not," and the ancient mariner had a fit of chuckling that nearly choked him.

When he recovered he told me the yarn. I had heard several of old Steve's yarns, and I considered
that his fine talents were miserably wasted; he ought to have been a politician or a real estate
agent. This yarn, however, might very well have been true.

"It was 'bout nineteen years ago," Steve commenced, "an' I'd jest taken up a job as cook on
the Here at Last, a blamed old Noah's Ark of a wind-jammer from New York to Jamaica. She did
th' trip in 'bout th' same time as yeh'd walk it. She was a beauty--an' th' crew 'bout fitted
her. Where th' old man had gathered 'em from th' Lord on'y knows; but they was th' most difficult
lot I've ever sailed with, which is sayin' a deal consid'rin' that, man an' boy, I've been
a sailor for forty years. They was as contrairy as women, an' as stoopid as donkeys. I couldn't
do nothin' right for 'em. They complained of the coffee, grumbled at th' biscuit, an' swore
terrible at th' meat. But most of all they swore at me."

"'It all lies in th' cookin',' an old one-eyed chap, named Barton, used ter say. 'Any cook
that is worth his salt can do wonders wi' th' worst vittles'; an' he told me how he'd once
sailed with a cook as c'd make a stewed cat taste better'n a rabbit. An', durn me, when I went
ashore next, an' at great risk managed to lay holt of a big tom and cooked it for em, hopin'
to please 'em, an' went inter th' fo'c's'le arter dinner an' told 'em what I'd done, ef that
self-same chap, Barton, didn't hit me over th' head wi' his tin can for tryin' ter poison 'em,
as he said. They complained to th' old man, too, which was worse; for when we got t' th' next
port my leave ashore was stopped, an' all for tryin' to please 'em. Rank ingratitood, I call it.

"Another time I tried to give the junk--it really was bad, but as I hadn't bought th' stores,
that wasn't no fault o' mine--a bit of a more pleasant flavor by bilin' with it a packet o'
spice I found in th' skipper's cabin. One o' th' sailors comes into my galley in a towerin'
rage arter dinner.

"'Yer blamed rascal,' he said, an' there was suthin' like murder in his starin' eyes. 'Yeh
blamed rascal, whatcher been doin' ter our grub now?'

"'What's th' trouble, Joe?' I asks quietly.

"'Trouble, yeh skunk,' he howls; 'our throats is hot as hell, all th' skin's comin' off 'em;
Bill Tomson's got his lips that blistered he can't hold his pipe between 'em. What yeh been doin?'

"'Hold hard a jiffy,' I said, an' looks at what was left o' th' spice I'd used. I nearly had a fit.

"'Go 'way,' I says, pullin' myself together; ''t ain't nuthin'.'

"An' it wasn't nuthin'; but there was such an almighty run on th' water barrel that arternoon
th' old man was beginnin' ter think a teetotal revival had struck th' Here at Last. But though
cayenne pepper drives a chap ter water pretty often while th' effect lasts, it don't have no
permanent result, as th' old man found out. Course it was a mistake o' mine; but ain't we all
liable to go a bit astray?

"I'm jest givin' yeh these few examples t' show yeh that things wasn't altogether O.K. 'tween
me an' the crew. They was always swearin' at me, an' callin' of me names, an' heavin' things
at me head, because I'd done or hadn't done suthin' or other. An angel from heaven wouldn't
have pleased 'em; an' as I never held much stock in the angelic trust yeh kin easily understand
we was most times very much at sixes an' sevens.

"One evenin' I was sittin' in th' fo'c's'le patiently listenin' ter th' horrible language in
which they reproached me because one o' 'em had managed t' break a front tooth in biting a
bit o' th' salt pork they'd had for dinner, which was certainly no fault o' mine, when one
of 'em, an English chap he was, an' the worst grumbler of all, suddenly cries:

"'Jeerusalem, wouldn't I give somethin' fer a drop of beer just now. Strike me pink if I ain't
a'most forgotten what the taste o' it's like.'

"'Me, too,' said Harry Towers, the carpenter. 'A schooner o' lager an' ale! Sakes! Wouldn't
it jest sizzle down a day like this?'

"'My aunt! I'd give a month's pay f'r a quart,' the surly Britisher says fiercely.

"'A quart, why don't yeh ask for a barrel while yeh're about it; then I'd help yeh drink it,'
I says.

"'Yer, yer blighted, perishin' idiot,' he shouts--it was him that'd broken his tooth. 'What,
waste good beer on yer that's fit fer nothin' but cuttin' up into shark bait!'

"'That ain't th' way t' talk to a man as is always ready an' willin' t' help yeh,' I says reproachfully.

"The chap glares at me like a tiger with the colic. His language was awful. 'Lord 'elp us,'
he finishes up with, 'why, yer've done nuthin' but try ter pizen us ever since we come aboard.
Ain't I right, mates?'

"'Righto,' they choruses; an' I begin t' think they'd soon be gittin' up to mischief.

"'P'raps I might help yeh t' git some beer if yer was more respectful,' I says hurriedly.

"'Beer!' they all yells, an' looks up at me all to onct as if I was a dime museum freak.

"'Yes, beer,' I says quietly.

"'An' where'd you be gittin' it from?' asks one.

"'Never yeh mind that,' I answers. 'I've a dozen or two bottles of English stout I brought
aboard, an' since yeh're so anxious to taste a drop o' beer, I don't mind lettin' yeh have
some--at a price, o' course.'

"'What's the figure?' Towers inquires suspiciously. He was a Michigan man.

"'A dollar th' bottle.'

"'What!' shouts th' man as was ready t' give a month's pay fer a quart. 'A dollar th' bottle!
Why, yer miserable old skinflint!'

"'A dollar th' bottle. That's the terms, take 'em or leave 'em,' says I, very firmly.

"They talked a lot, and they swore a lot more, but finally seem' as I wasn't t' be moved, and
that they couldn't get the beer except at my price, the hull ten of 'em agreed to have a bottle
apiece.

"'Money down,' I stipulates; an' after a lot o' trouble they collects seven dollars between
'em, an' tells me it's all they've got, an' if I didn't bring up th' ten bottles mighty quick
they'd knock me on th' head an' drop me overboard.

"'Mind,' I said, as I goes off to th' galley, money in my hand; 'don't yeh let th' officers
see yeh drinkin' it or they'll think yeh've been broachin' cargo, an' that's little short o'
mutiny.'

"'Bring up that beer,' growls the Britisher, almost foamin' at th' mouth.

"When I came back with th' ten bottles o' stout in a basket they all looked so pleased an'
happy it did my heart good ter look at 'em.

"'Hand it over,' they shouts impatiently.

"'I'm afraid it's gone a bit flat,' I said, as I handed th' bottles round. 'But I've tried
to pull it round.'

"Flat or not, they weren't goin' to kick; an' they was jest 'bout to unscrew the stoppers when
the second mate suddenly shoves his head down the hatchway an' yells out:

"'On deck, yer lazy, skulking, highly colored lubbers. Tumble up at once, an' git a lively
move on, or I'll be down an' smarten ye up!'

"McClosky, the second mate, was not a fellow who stood any nonsense, an' th' men weren't long
before they was out o' th' fo'c's'le, grumblin' an' swearin' as only men who've lost their
watch below can. They just stayed long enough t' shove th' unopened bottles o' stout well out
o' sight underneath th' mattresses o' their bunks an' then they was up on deck working like
niggers. A squall had struck the Here at Last; mighty inconvenient, these squalls in the Caribbean
Sea are, an' th' Here at Last wasn't best calc'lated t' weather 'em. For two mortal hours everyone
was hard at it, takin' in sail, doublin' ropes, an' makin' all ready for what promised t' be
a dirty night. All thoughts o' beer was driven out o' their heads. An' when everythin' was
ship-shape an' they came below again, soakin' wet an' dog-tired, they just climbed into their
berths without stoppin' to think of th' precious bottles o' stout.

"'Bout two o'clock in th' mornin', I was woke up by what sounded like a pistol shot in th'
fo'c's'le, an' before I c'd rub th' sleep out er my eyes, there was another, an' another an'
another, an' I saw four sailors tumble outer their bunks an' fall on th' floor shriekin' as
if they'd been attacked by th' most awful pain. Everyone else in th' fo'c's'le sits up, wide
awake, an' starin' at th' sufferin' wretches on th' floor.

"'Wot th' 'ell's up?' asks th' Britisher; but no one knew, an' th' nex' second there was another
explosion, an' he suddenly gave a scream that lifted th' hair on my scalp, an' leaps outer
his bunk as if he'd been suddenly prodded in a tender spot wi' a red hot poker.

"'My Gawd!' he screeches; 'th' bunk's exploded an' I'm bleedin' ter death;' an' he starts yellin'
like a catamount, runnin' up an' down th' gangway, an' tramplin' upon th' four shriekin', cursin',
prayin' sailors who'd been attacked fust.

"'It's an infernal machine, an' it's blowed a hole in me back,' the Britisher yelled; an' we
who was lookin' on c'd certainly hear suthin' drippin' from th' bunk he'd just got out of.

"'Owch! I'm blowed t' bits. I'm bein' murdered. I'm dyin', Lord help me,' Harry Towers, the
carpenter, wails; an' there was another terrific bang, an' outer his bunk Harry shot, landin',
on th' chest o' one o' th' moanin' squirmin' sailors. Th' poor fellow, findin' himself thus
flattened out, an' not knowin' what it was had fallen on him, gives a gaspin' sort er yell,
an' drives Towers in th' back wi' his fist.

"Th' row goin' on was suthin' terrible; a' 'sylum full o' ravin' lunatics on th' rampage couldn't
have made more noise; an' them that hadn't been hurt was beginnin' t' feel as bad as them that
was, when someone scrambles down th' companionway.

"It was McClosky, th' second mate, whose watch on deck it was. He'd heard th' row--an' no wonder--an'
thinkin', I dessay, that murder or mutiny was goin' on, came forward to investigate. He was
a red-headed, hot-tempered Irishman, an' c'd handle a crew in rare style.

"'What th' dickens----' he commences, when one o' th' men on th' floor, seein' th' gun in his
hand, an' not recognizin' him, shouted, 'They're comin' t' finish us,' an' grabs th' mate round
th' legs wi' th' grip of a boa constrictor.

"Th' mate, sure it was mutiny, lets off his gun permiscuous. A clip on the jaw made th' sailor
let go, an' th' mate, seein' Towers groanin' on th' floor quite close, kicks him hard an' asks
what's th' matter.

"'We're blown up, sir,' Towers whimpers.

"'Blown up, ye fool, what d' ye mean? Who's blowin' ye up?' demands McClosky.

"'Dunno, sir,' Harry stammered; an' just then there was two more explosions, an' a couple more
o' the seamen bundled headlong out er their berths, utterin' doleful shrieks that'd make yer
heart stand still.

"Th' mate was kickin', swearin', and shoutin' like a demon, th' men all th' while keepin' up
their row as if they was bein' paid a dollar a minute to yell. Then th' skipper put in an appearance.
His face was white as chalk, but his hands, in each o' which was a big Colt, were steady as
rocks, an' he come down th' ladder like a man who reckons he's in for a good fight.

"'What's all this mean, Mr. McClosky?' he asks, pausin' when he sees there's no fightin' goin' on.

"Whatever th' mate said was drowned by th' row th' sailors was makin', though he bellowed like
a frisky bull. Th' old man didn't seem a bit frightened; droppin' one o' th' Colts inter his
pocket, he roars, 'Silence'; and steps over to th' berth where Joe Harper, th' bo'sun, was
sittin' upright, stiff as a poker, an' his eyes fairly startin' out er his head wi' terror.

"'Now, then, Harper,' he says, an' judgin' by his face th' skipper was 'bout as mad as a bear
with a sore head. 'What th' blazes does it mean? Have yeh all gone mad?'

"But th' bo'sun, he was too scared to do more than gape at th' skipper like a codfish three
days out er water, an th' old man gits a bit madder.

"'Answer, yeh damn rascal,' he shouted; an' he grabs Harper by th' shoulder an' shakes him
until his teeth fairly rattled. But th' bo'sun couldn't say a word.

"'If this ain't enough t' drive a man crazy,' th' skipper yells; 'McClosky, have yeh lost yer
senses like all these condemned rascals here? What's th' meanin' o' it?'

"'Don't know, sir; I heard 'em ravin' an' screamin' like lunatics, but I can't get a word out
of 'em. Think they must all have become mad,' an' th' mate kicked Towers again t' relieve his
feelin's.

"He'd just finished speakin' when suthin' busted underneath th' bo'sun. Harper screams, th'
skipper gives a jump an' lets go of his arm, an' Harper falls out er his berth as if he'd been
suddenly shot dead, only he was makin' a row like a man suddenly attacked wi' D.T.'s. And at
that all th' other miserable wretches on th' floor starts worse than ever.

"Th' skipper pulls himself together, an' goin' t' th' bo'sun's bunk, leans over an' examines
it. He poked about f'r a bit, put his fingers into a stream of suthin' that was fallin' from
th' bunk to th' floor, an' then by th' light o' th' swingin' oil lamp, I see his face turn
a blazin' crimson. I see him take suthin' outer th' bed, an' then he swings round an' faces
th' men.

"'Yeh low down, thievin', chicken-hearted, blank, blank scoundrels,' he yells, an' his voice
was that loud an' so full o' passion th' sailors were scared into quietness. 'Yeh miserable
sneakin' apologies for men! So this is what's th' matter, is it? By gum! If I don't have every
mother's son of ye clapped into jail soon as we reach Kingstown, call me a crimson Dutchman.
Blown up, are ye? I wish t' th' Lord some of ye had been. Sailors, yeh calls yeh-selves! Why,
by gosh! yeh haven't enough spirit t' rob a mouse. What's that yeh say, Towers? Infernal machines,
eh? Dyin'! If yeh don't all get a move on ye in double quick time, some of yeh will be. Git
out o' my sight, ye blubberin' babies; I'm sick an' ashamed of ye.'

"A more sick an' unhappy lookin' drove I never saw when th' men got on their legs again an'
found out they weren't hurt a little bit; an' discovered what it was had caused th' explosions.
They wouldn't look at each other; an' they daren't speak or else there'd have been fightin'.

"I went about in fear of my life for days, but they did nothin'; though if they'd known that
I--quite innocent o' mischief, yeh understand--had put a dozen grains or so of rice inter every
bottle o' stout--amazin' stuff rice for causin' fermentation in hot climates--they wouldn't
have stopped short at mere profanity. My life wouldn't have been worth a moment's purchase."

A little meat, boiled in a soup, on Sunday, was a feast for all; and the father on this day
sat longer over the repast, repeating: "I should like this every day." Oh, how I should like
to have one of them--that one there--the little bit of a one!"

One morning, on arriving, her husband alighted with her, and without stopping with the children,
who now knew her well, she entered the peasants' cottage.

They were busy splitting wood to cook the soup. Oh, no, indeed!"

Then M. d'Hubières intervened:

"My wife has not explained clearly what she means. As we have thought also of you, we should
pay you, until your death, a pension of one hundred francs a month. Have you quite understood me?"

M. d'Hubières recommenced his propositions, but with more insinuations, more oratorical precautions,
more guile. In a sententious tone he said: "I say that it's not to be despised." That child
would be working in a few years; we must have a hundred and twenty francs."

Stamping with impatience, Mme. d'Hubières granted it at once, and as she wished to carry off
the child with her, she gave a hundred francs as a present, while her husband drew up a writing.

Nothing more was heard of little Jean Vallin. The parents went to the notary every month to
collect their hundred and twenty francs, and they were angry with their neighbors, because
Mother Tuvache grossly insulted them, repeating without ceasing from door to door, that one
must be unnatural to sell one's child; that it was horrible, nasty, and many other vile expressions.
That was the cause of the inappeasable fury of the Tuvaches, who had remained miserably poor.

When they had got to know one another again the parents wished to take their boy out through
the neighborhood, and show him. I said to myself: 'See what I should have been now!'" He arose:
"See here, I feel that I would do better not to stay here, because I should bring it up against
you from morning till night, and I should make your life miserable. I shall never forgive you
that, you know!"

The two old people were silent, downcast, in tears.

He continued: "No, the thought of that would be too hard. I'd rather go look for a living somewhere
else."

He opened the door. A sound of voices entered. The Vallins were celebrating the return of their
child.

XI

PROVIDENCE AND MRS. URMY

The Story of an International Marriage

By ARMIGER BARCLAY and OLIVER SANDYS

LADY HARTLEY (née Miss Persis Van Ness) gave a little gasp. In her excitement the paper rustled
noisily to her knee.

"O-h! Have you seen this?" She shot the Morning Post across the breakfast table to Mrs. Rufus
P. Urmy, with her finger marking a paragraph.

Mrs. Urmy glanced at it. "I guess it ought to corral him right away," she said, with the merest
suspicion of embarrassment. "You see, it's Jeannette's last chance. Two seasons in England
and never a catch, so I----"

"You did it?" Lady Hartley looked at her friend in round-eyed wonder.

"I--I had to do something," allowed Mrs. Urmy, with a dawning suspicion that perhaps she had,
after all, run afoul of British conventions, which she found as difficult of comprehension
as her regular morning study of Debrett.

"But Jeannette!"

"That's so. Jeannette'll raise Cain." Mrs. Urmy got up from the table. "It's this a-way, Persis.
I reckon I fixed your little affair up with Lord Hartley to home, and you've got to thank me
for it. Now, I'm trying to do the same for my girl. She can't, or she won't, play her own hand.
Every chance she's had she's let slide, and I allow she's got to marry a title before I go
back to the States. Some one's got to hustle when Providence isn't attending to business, and
as there's nobody else to do it, I've taken on the contract." She pointed to the paragraph.
"I own up I don't see just how, but there wasn't much time, and it was the best I could do."

Lady Hartley slowly reread the incriminating paragraph:

"A marriage has been arranged, and will shortly take place between the Earl of Chilminster,
of Sapworth Hall, Wilts, and Miss Jeannette L. Urmy, of Boston, Massachusetts."

"It knocks me out!" she murmured, lapsing into the Western idiom which a whole week spent in
the society of her bosom friend was bound to call up. "But why Lord Chilminster?" She pronounced
the name Chilster.

"Why won't he do? Isn't he the real thing? I picked him out in my sample book of the aristocracy,
and when I fitted the name on to Jeannette--the Countess of Chilminster--it sounded quite elegant."

"Then it wasn't because you knew I knew him?" demanded Mrs. Urmy's hostess with growing amazement.

Mrs. Urmy's face took on a blank expression.

"You've heard me mention the name. That's how it's pronounced," explained Lady Hartley. "His
place isn't far from here."

"You don't say! The way these British titles are pronounced is enough to make you doubt your
own eyesight. I didn't know. But if he's a friend of yours that'll likely make it all the easier."

"Lord Chilminster!" Lady Hartley spoke in an awed tone.

She felt it would be useless to make Mrs. Urmy understand the enormity of her offence against
good taste, and presently her astonishment gave way to amusement.

"Lavinia," she rippled, "as a matchmaker you take the cake! I don't believe----" She paused,
listening. "Hush! Here's Jeannette!"

Miss Jeannette Urmy came in through the open French window. She was dressed in a natty little
cotton frock, looked fresh and chic, and only pleasantly American. Perhaps she inherited her
good looks and refined tastes from "popper" Urmy, deceased, in which case that gentleman must
have committed one serious error of taste and judgment when he selected Jeannette's mother
for his better half.

"My! You're late, Jeannette!" observed Mrs. Urmy, shooting a quick glance at Lady Hartley.

At the same moment, both ladies, by common consent, sauntered toward the door. They knew Jeannette's
temperament. A crisis, such as the announcement in the Morning Post was sure to evoke, was
one at which they were not anxious to assist.

"Oh, I'm ahead of time," answered Jeannette. "I've been up since six looking for eggs."

"Eggs?" echoed Lady Hartley.

"Yes; I collect birds' eggs." She picked up the newspaper and let her eye wander along the
items in the Court Circular. "But getting up early makes me homesick. The best time of my life
was when I was a kid, when I hadn't an idea beyond the woods on the old Massachusetts farm,
when popper kept his store, and--Oh!"

She had reached the fatal announcement, and sat with parted lips, rigid as stone, while the
world seemed toppling about her ears. There was a long pause. Jeannette's lips gradually tightened,
and her firm hand crumpled up the paper.

"Mommer!" she exclaimed. "Here, Mommer!" But Mrs. Urmy and Lady Hartley had beaten a diplomatic
retreat. Jeannette jumped to her feet, the color flaming in her face, her eyes snapping with
indignation. "Oh!" she cried, impotently. "I'll--I'll--oh! what can I do? It must come out!
He must apologize. Who did it? Oh, I don't even know him, the--wretch!"

The "chuff-chuff" of a motor-car coming up the drive interrupted her outburst, and she looked
up to see it being driven up and halted before the entrance. Lady Hartley had a perfect fleet
of cars. Jeannette at once jumped to the conclusion that this was one of them. She had a sudden
inspiration. It was running free--ready to start. There was temptation in the soft purr of
its engine. The driver, quietly dressed, but not in livery, she appraised as one of Lady Hartley's
motor-men.

"Shall I?" she whispered. "Dare I? I can set things straight at once if I do. Persis will be
wild with me for going off without a word, but I'll--I'll chance it!"

She ran into the hall, slipped into her motoring coat, and, throwing discretion to the winds,
walked out to the front of the house and quickly up to the car.

"How soon can you drive me to Sapworth Hall?" she asked, getting in and pulling the rug around her.

The barefaced appropriation of his car by an unknown young woman almost took Lord Chilminster's
breath away. He had, at much inconvenience to himself, motored all the way to Lady Hartley's
to contradict and sift an amazing and annoying report that he had discovered in the Morning
Post. He had heard Lady Hartley mention the name of Urmy as that of a friend of hers, and naturally
decided that she was the proper person to consult. But before he had time to get out of his
car and ring the bell here was a young person, springing from goodness knows where, mistaking
him for a motor-man, and ordering him about. For a moment he was speechless. Then, as the humor
of the situation began to appeal to him, so did the good looks of the girl.

"Really," he began. "You see I----"

"Don't talk, get under way!" commanded Jeannette. "Quick! Her ladyship has altered her mind
about going out. You've got to take me to Sapworth Hall. It's thirty miles. I want to be there
by lunch-time. Do you know the way?"

"I--I think so," stammered Chilminster.

Her bewildering eagerness to be off was infectious. The noble owner of the car felt it. But
apart from that, he was quite ready for an adventure in such pleasant company. He forgot all
about the object of his visit. Without another word he let in the clutch and started.

Jeannette sank back with a sigh of relief. She credited herself with having secured Persis's
car very neatly. The man might, perhaps, get into trouble, but she could make that up to him
by a generous tip. Her one idea was to contradict and confute the disgraceful announcement
at its fountain-head. It was providential that the unknown Lord Chilminster's place was so
near; but had it been ten times as far off, Jeannette, boiling with justifiable indignation,
and with her mind made up to exact reparation, would have gone there.

"It's awful! It's unheard of! I--I won't have it! Who can have done it?" she kept repeating
through white teeth set viciously. "I'll have it contradicted in large print by this time to-morrow,
or the American Ambassador shall----"

She was not quite sure what ambassadors did under similar circumstances, and she left the mental
threat unfinished. Anyhow, it was a disgrace to herself, and her sex, if not a slight on her
country, and it redoubled her determination to "get even" with the perpetrator of it. She leaned
forward to make herself heard.

"Set a killing pace," she called. "I'll make it up to you."

Chilminster nodded, hid a smile, and let the car out to the top of its speed. It ate up mile
after mile; and as it came to Jeannette that each one brought her nearer and nearer to the
hateful person whose name had been so scandalously bracketed with her own, she experienced
a feeling of nervousness. The boldness of her escapade began to alarm her. What should she
say? How express in words her view of an intolerable situation which no self-respecting girl
could even calmly think about?

Lord Chilminster's mind was almost similarly engaged. He was wondering who Miss Jeannette L.
Urmy could be, and whether she was aware of the obnoxious paragraph in the paper. He did not
do her the injustice to suppose that she had inspired it (he had an open mind on that point),
but as he was not responsible for it himself, he had a suspicion that she might be. Chilminster
had met very few unmarried American girls, but like most Englishmen, he was aware of their
capacity for resolution in most matters. Then, again, it was leap year. Suppose---- For a little
while he did a lot of hard thinking.

"I say," he called suddenly, looking over his shoulder. "Isn't there a Miss Urmy staying at
the White House?"

Jeannette drew herself up and fixed him with a stony stare.

"I am Miss Urmy," she answered frigidly.

The start that Chilminster gave unconsciously affected the steering-wheel, and the car swerved
sharply.

"What are you doing? You're driving disgracefully!" exclaimed Jeannette.

"I--I beg your pardon," faltered Chilminster. "I thought you were her lady's maid."

He felt he owed her that one. A girl who could announce her approaching marriage with a stranger
(Chilminster no longer gave her the benefit of the doubt) and follow up that glaring indiscretion
by a visit to her victim, was---- The imminence of such a thing alarmed him. Was she coming
to propose--to molest him? He got hot thinking of it.

The situation had undergone a complete change since he had started out in a rage, and some
trepidation, to confront Miss Urmy herself, if need be. Now trepidation over-balanced all his
other emotions. Miss Urmy was behind him, in his own automobile, and he was meekly driving
her at a cracking speed to his own house! It was too late to turn back now. The thing had to
be seen through. Besides, he could not help feeling a curiosity to know what was in his passenger's
mind, and to discover her bewildering plan of action.

Neither spoke for the rest of the journey, and at length the car passed through the lodge gates,
swept up the drive, and stopped at the entrance to Sapworth Hall. Jeannette got out.

"You had better go round to the stables and ask for something to eat. I may be some time,"
was all she volunteered as she rang the bell.

Rather staggered by the order, but foreseeing a bad quarter of an hour ahead of him, Chilminster
was glad of the respite. He opened the throttle and slid out of sight as Jeannette was admitted.

His lordship was out, the butler informed her. Then she would wait--wait all day, if necessary,
she said decisively, following the man into the library. No, she was in no need of refreshment,
but her chauffeur, who had gone round to the stables, might be glad of something in the servants'
hall.

With a foot impatiently tapping the polished floor, she sat summoning up all her determination
whilst awaiting the ordeal before her. For, by this time had come the inevitable reaction,
and the sudden impulse that had made her act as she had seemed, somehow, out of relation to
the motive that had inspired it. Not that she regretted having come: her self-respect demanded
that sacrifice; but she wished the unpleasant affair over.

An intolerable ten minutes passed. The beautiful seventeenth century room, like a reflection
on the spirit of democracy, was getting on Jeannette's nerves. The strain of listening, watching
the big mahogany door for the expected entrance of Lord Chilminster, at last reduced her to
a state of apathy, and when he did come quietly in she was taken by surprise.

"I'm so sorry to have kept you waiting," he said.

Jeannette stared. Bareheaded, gaiterless, minus his driving coat, very self-contained and eminently
aristocratic, the supposed motor-man advanced into the room.

"You see, you told me to take the car round to the stables," he proceeded, with a touch of
apology in his tone.

"You--you are the Earl of Chilminster?" she gasped.

"Of Sapworth Hall, Wilts," he augmented, like one who quotes. "And you are Miss Jeannette L.
Urmy, of Boston, Massachusetts, I believe."

There was quite a long silence.

"You knew all along," she flushed angrily.

Chilminster raised a hand in protest. "Not until you told me."

"Then why didn't you stop? You ought to have taken me back immediately you knew who I was."

"So I would have if----"

"You mean you didn't believe me. You thought I was a lady's maid!" Jeannette interrupted indignantly.

"That was an error of judgment for which I humbly apologize. We are all liable to make mistakes
sometimes. You, Miss Urmy, for instance, took me for a motor-man. You also appropriated my
car, and commanded me to bring you here at a murderous--no, a killing pace. And I think you
added that you would make it up to me."

Jeannette's face tingled. She had come to accuse, and, instead, found herself patiently listening
to a recital of her indiscretions. But if Lord Chilminster was a strategist, Jeannette was
a tactician. She appreciated the danger of a passive defense, and conversely, of the value
of a vigorous aggression. Without a moment's hesitation she began a counter attack.

"In to-day's Morning Post----" she commenced.

"Ah, the Morning Post!" echoed Chilminster, also changing front.

"There was a disgraceful announcement."

"Half of it certainly was--irksome."

"Which half?" asked Jeannette suspiciously.

"I have no conscientious scruples about matrimony in the abstract," parried Chilminster.

"But I have. I object altogether to the paragraph. I resent it."

"Then you did not insert it?"

"I insert it? I?" flamed Jeannette. She drew herself up as haughtily as a pretty woman can
under the disadvantage of being seated in a yielding easy chair. "Do you mean to assert, Lord
Chilminster, that I----?"

She was interrupted by the entrance of the butler.

"Luncheon is served, my lord," he announced.

"You will take off your coat?"

Lord Chilminster turned to Miss Urmy, and advanced a step in anticipation. The butler--with
a well-trained butler's promptness--was behind her, and before she could frame a word of objection,
the fur-lined garment had slipped from her shoulders.

Thus must martyrs have marched to the stake, was one of Jeannette's bewildered reflections
as she preceded her host out of the room, and, as in a dream, found herself a few minutes later
facing him across the luncheon table. Outwardly, the meal proceeded in well-ordered calm. Lord
Chilminster made no further reference to the debatable topic; only talked lightly and pleasantly
on a variety of non-committal subjects.

As the lady's host that, of course, was the only attitude he could adopt; but the fact remains
that he did so de bonne volonté. Perhaps because, so far, he had scored more points than his
opponent in the morning's encounter; perhaps, also, because of her undeniable good looks, his
irritation, due to the circumstances that had prompted that encounter, began to lessen with
truites en papilotte, was almost forgotten in face of a mousse de volaille, and entirely vanished
among asperges vertes mousseline.

Miss Jeannette L. Urmy, with her veil lifted, and relieved of her voluminous coat, was, he
had to admit, distractingly pretty; not at all the type he had pictured as the original of
the name. Young, pretty, and charming women (he was convinced that au fond she was charming)
ought to have no obstinate prejudices against marriage. He even ventured to think that Miss
Urmy's mind had become obscured on that point by those--well, indiscreet lines in the Morning
Post. They had upset him; then why not her? They were so--premature.

As for Jeannette, in spite of Lord Chilminster's effortless ease, her powers of conversation
were frozen. She was reduced to monosyllables, and she ate in proportion. It was a humiliating
experience to be accepting the hospitality of the enemy; one, moreover, that made it awkward
for her to prolong hostilities. Having broken bread in his tents (a Puritan strain was responsible
for the illustration) she felt disarmed. Besides, she was rather ashamed of her maladroitness
in mistaking Lord Chilminster for a common motor-man. It argued gaucherie. Perhaps he thought
her unconventional call a violation of good taste--considered her forward! He had plainly shown
his annoyance about that obnox--that embarrassing paragraph, and that fact spiked most of her
batteries. He might, after all, prove to be quite----

"Do you mind if I smoke?"

Lord Chilminster's voice startled her out of her reverie. The servants had noiselessly retired,
and they were alone.

"I--I feel ready to sink through the floor," she rejoined inconsequently.

He returned his cigarette case to his pocket, looking quite concerned. "I'm so sorry. I ought
not to have----"

"No, no. Please smoke. It isn't that," stammered Jeannette.

"It's the Morning Post?"

Jeannette evaded his eye.

"Yes; it does put us in rather a tight place," mediated Chilminster.

Nothing was said for a moment.

"Engaged!" he murmured.

Jeannette raised her eyes and noted his reflective attitude.

"Who can have put it in?" he went on.

"I can't imagine."

"And why?"

"It does seem strange," admitted Jeannette in a detached tone.

"It's not as if we were----"

"No," she interposed hurriedly.

"Well, what ought we to do about it? Of course, we can contradict it, but----"

"But what?" she asked, filling his pause.

"I hate advertisement--that is, unnecessary advertisement," Chilminster corrected himself.
"It would make us--I mean me--look so--so vacillating."

He looked up rather suddenly, and just missed Jeannette's eyes by the thousandth of a second.

What could he mean? she asked herself, while her heart pumped boisterously. Was he magnanimous
enough to be thinking of accepting a compromising situation to save her? What he had said sounded
very unselfish. Of course, she couldn't allow him to. What a pity he was not an American--or
something quite ordinary. Then she might----

"There's nothing for it but to write to the paper, I suppose?" he said ruefully.

"I--I suppose not." The comment was dragged from Jeannette in a tone as unconsciously reluctant
as his was rueful.

Chilminster sighed. "It's so rough on you."

Jeannette felt a consuming anxiety to know whether his sympathy was occasioned by the announcement
or the suggested denial of it.

"And on you, too," she admitted. "What were you thinking--how did you propose to phrase it?"

"I?" he asked apprehensively. "To be quite frank. I haven't got as far as that. Never wrote
to the papers in my life," he added pusillanimously.

"But I can't," argued Jeannette. Her determination of two hours ago had vanished into the Ewigkeit.

Chilminster had an inspiration. "What do you say if we do it together?"

While she digested this expedient he fetched paper and pencil, and then sat gazing at the ceiling
for inspiration.

"Well?" she queried at the end of a minute.

"How ought one to begin these things?" asked the desperate man.

Jeannette cogitated deeply. "It's so difficult to say what one wants to a stranger in a letter,
isn't it?" she hesitated. "Wouldn't a telegram do?"

"By Jove! Yes; and simply say: 'Miss Urmy wishes to deny----'"

"In my name!" exclaimed Jeannette.

"Well--you are the person aggrieved."

"I really don't think it's fair to put the whole of the responsibility on my shoulders," she
demurred.

"No, I suppose not," Chilminster admitted grudgingly. "How would this do: 'Miss Urmy and Lord
Chilminster wish to contradict their engagement----'"

"But that implies that there was an engagement!"

Chilminster pondered the deduction. "So it does. I see. People would jump to the conclusion
that we were in a desperate hurry to alter our minds!"

"And, of course, we haven't."

"Y-es. I don't know how you feel about it, but if there's one thing I dislike it's tittle-tattle
about my private affairs."

"Horrid!" shivered Jeannette. "What are we to do?"

Her tone was so hopeless, so full of tears, that it melted Chilminster. Susceptibilities that
had been simmering within him for an hour past came unexpectedly to the boil; and as they did
so the difficulty vanished.

"Why need we bother at all about it?" he asked impulsively.

For a world of moments, Jeannette stared at him, revolving the question. Then a faint radiance
came into her face, and grew and grew until it burned. Jeannette bit her lip. Jeannette looked
down.

"What do you mean?" she asked in confusion.

"Don't--don't you think we had better--take the consequences?" said Chilminster, as he reached
across the table and let his hand fall on hers.

       *        *       *       *       *

Mrs. Urmy stood at the window looking with lack-lustre eyes across the park. She had had six
solid hours in which to reflect on that risky communication of hers to the Morning Post, and
Jeannette's disappearance since breakfast time provided a gloomy commentary on it. She fidgeted
uneasily as she recalled her daughter's scared look when reading the paper, and maternal forebodings
discounted her interest in an automobile that showed at intervals between the trees of the
drive as it approached the White House.

But two moments later it occurred to her that it was Jeannette who sat on its front seat beside
the driver; and, as the car drew up, her experienced eye detected something in the demeanor
of the pair that startled but elated her.

"Here's Jeannette!" she called over her shoulder to Lady Hartley. "In an auto with a young
man. Say, Persis, who is he?"

Lady Hartley hurried to the window, gave one look, and doubted the evidence of her eyes.

"Lavinia, it's Lord Chilminster!" she cried, with a catch in her voice.

The two women flashed a glance brimful of significance at one another. Lady Hartley's expressed
uncertainty; Mrs. Urmy's triumph--sheer, complete, perfect triumph.

"Didn't I say it was a sure thing?" she shrilled excitedly. "It's fixed them up! Come right
ahead and introduce me to my future son-in-law!"

As she raced to the door she added half to herself: "I don't want to boast, but, thank the
Lord, I've got Jeannette off this season!"

XII

THE MILLION DOLLAR FREIGHT TRAIN

The Story of a Young Engineer

By FRANK H. SPEARMAN

IT WAS the second month of the strike, and not a pound of freight had been moved. Things did
look smoky on the West End. The General Superintendent happened to be with us when the news
came. "You can't handle it, boys," said he nervously. "What you'd better do is to turn it over
to the Columbian Pacific."

Our contracting freight agent on the Coast at that time was a fellow so erratic that he was
nicknamed "Crazy-horse." Right in the midst of the strike Crazy-horse wired that he had secured
a big silk shipment for New York. We were paralyzed. We had no engineers, no firemen, and no
motive power to speak of. The strikers were pounding our men, wrecking our trains, and giving
us the worst of it generally; that is, when we couldn't give it to them. Why the fellow displayed
his activity at that particular juncture still remains a mystery. Perhaps he had a grudge against
the road; if so, he took an artful revenge. Everybody on the system with ordinary railroad
sense knew that our struggle was to keep clear of freight business until we got rid of our
strike. Anything valuable or perishable was especially unwelcome. But the stuff was docked,
and loaded, and consigned in our care before we knew it. After that, a refusal to carry it
would be like hoisting the white flag; and that is something which never yet flew over the
West End.

"Turn it over to the Columbian," said the General Superintendent; but the General Superintendent
was not looked up to on our division. He hadn't enough sand. Our head was a fighter, and he
gave tone to every man under him. "No," he thundered, bringing down his fist. "Not in a thousand
years. We'll move it ourselves. Wire Montgomery (the General Manager) that we will take care
of it. And wire him to fire Crazy-horse--and to do it right off." And before the silk was turned
over to us Crazy-horse was looking for another job. It is the only case on record where a freight
hustler was discharged for getting business.

There were twelve carloads; it was insured for $85,000 a car; you can figure how far the title
is wrong, but you never can estimate the worry the stuff gave us. It looked as big as twelve
million dollars' worth. In fact, one scrub car-link, with the glory of the West End at heart,
had a fight over the amount with a skeptical hostler. He maintained that the actual money value
was a hundred and twenty millions; but I give you the figures just as they went over the wire,
and they are right.

What bothered us most was that the strikers had the tip almost as soon as we had it. Having
friends on every road in the country, they knew as much about our business as we ourselves.
The minute it was announced that we should move the silk, they were after us. It was a defiance;
a last one. If we could move freight--for we were already moving passengers after a fashion--the
strike might be well accounted beaten.

Stewart, the leader of the local contingent, together with his followers, got after me at once.
"You don't show much sense, Reed," said he. "You fellows here are breaking your necks to get
things moving, and when this strike's over, if our boys ask for your discharge, they'll get
it. This road can't run without our engineers. We're going to beat you. If you dare try to
move this silk, we'll have your scalp when it's over. You'll never get your silk to Zanesville,
I'll promise you that. And if you ditch it and make a million-dollar loss, you'll get let out
anyway, my buck."

"I'm here to obey orders, Stewart," said I. What was the use of more? I felt uncomfortable;
but we had determined to move the silk; there was no more to be said.

When I went over to the round-house and told Neighbor the decision, he said never a word; but
he looked a great deal. Neighbor's task was to supply the motive power. All that we had, uncrippled,
was in the passenger service, because passengers should be taken care of first of all. In order
to win a strike, you must have public opinion on your side.

"Nevertheless, Neighbor," said I, after we had talked awhile, "we must move the silk also."

Neighbor studied; then he roared at his foreman. "Send Bartholomew Mullen here." He spoke with
a decision that made me think the business was done. I had never happened, it is true, to hear
of Bartholomew Mullen in the department of motive power; but the impression the name gave me
was of a monstrous fellow, big as Neighbor, or old man Sankey, or Dad Hamilton. "I'll put Bartholomew
ahead of it," said Neighbor tightly.

I saw a boy walk into the office. "Mr. Garten said you wanted me, sir," said he, addressing
the Master Mechanic.

"I do, Bartholomew," responded Neighbor.

The figure in my mind's eye shrunk in a twinkling. Then it occurred to me that it must be this
boy's father who was wanted.

"You have been begging for a chance to take out an engine, Bartholomew," began Neighbor coldly;
and I knew it was on.

"Yes, sir."

"You want to get killed, Bartholomew."

Bartholomew smiled as if the idea was not altogether displeasing.

"How would you like to go pilot to-morrow for McCurdy? You to take the 44 and run as first
Seventy-eight. McCurdy will run as second Seventy-eight."

"I know I could run an engine all right," ventured Bartholomew, as if Neighbor were the only
one taking the chances in giving him an engine. "I know the track from here to Zanesville.
I helped McNeff fire one week."

"Then go home, and go to bed; and be over here at six o'clock to-morrow morning. And sleep
sound, for it may be your last chance."

It was plain that the Master Mechanic hated to do it; it was simply sheer necessity. "He's
a wiper," mused Neighbor, as Bartholomew walked springily away. "I took him in here sweeping
two years ago. He ought to be firing now, but the union held him back; that's why he don't
like them. He knows more about an engine now than half the lodge. They'd better have let him
in," said the Master Mechanic grimly. "He may be the means of breaking their backs yet. If
I give him an engine and he runs it, I'll never take him off, union or no union, strike or
no strike."

"How old is that boy?" I asked.

"Eighteen; and never a kith or a kin that I know of. Bartholomew Mullen," mused Neighbor, as
the slight figure moved across the flat, "big name--small boy. Well, Bartholomew, you'll know
something more by to-morrow night about running an engine, or a whole lot less: that's as it
happens. If he gets killed, it's your fault, Reed."

He meant that I was calling on him for men when he couldn't supply them.

"I heard once," he went on, "about a fellow named Bartholomew being mixed up in a massacre.
But I take it he must have been an older man than our Bartholomew--nor his other name wasn't
Mullen, neither. I disremember just what it was; but it wasn't Mullen."

"Well, don't say I want to get the boy killed, Neighbor," I protested. "I've got plenty to
answer for. I'm here to run trains--when there are any to run; that's murder enough for me.
You needn't send Bartholomew out on my account."

"Give him a slow schedule, and I'll give him orders to jump early; that's all we can do. If
the strikers don't ditch him, he'll get through somehow."

It stuck in my crop--the idea of putting that boy on a pilot engine to take all the dangers
ahead of that particular train; but I had a good deal else to think of besides. From the minute
the silk got into the McCloud yards, we posted double guards around. About twelve o'clock that
night we held a council of war, which ended in our running the train into the out freight-house.
The result was that by morning we had a new train made up. It consisted of fourteen refrigerator
cars loaded with oranges which had come in mysteriously the night before. It was announced
that the silk would be held for the present and the oranges rushed through at once. Bright
and early the refrigerator train was run down to the icehouses, and twenty men were put to
work icing the oranges. At seven o'clock, McCurdy pulled in the local passenger with engine
105. Our plan was to cancel the load and run him right out with the oranges. When he got in,
he reported that the 105 had sprung a tire; this threw us out entirely. There was a hurried
conference in the round-house.

"What can you do?" asked the Superintendent in desperation.

"There's only one thing I can do. Put Bartholomew Mullen on it with the 44, and put McCurdy
to bed for Number Two to-night," responded Neighbor.

It was eight o'clock. I looked into the locomotive stalls. The first--the only--man in sight
was Bartholomew Mullen. He was very busy polishing the 44. He had good steam on her, and the
old tub was wheezing away as if she had the asthma. The 44 was old; she was homely; she was
rickety; but Bartholomew Mullen wiped her battered nose as deferentially as if she had been
a spick-span, spider-driver, tail-truck mail-racer. She wasn't much--the 44. But in those days
Bartholomew wasn't much: and the 44 was Bartholomew's.

"How is she steaming, Bartholomew?" I sang out; he was right in the middle of her. Looking
up, he fingered his waste modestly and blushed through a dab of crude-petroleum over his eye.
"Hundred and thirty pounds, sir. She's a terrible free steamer, the old 44. I'm all ready to
run her out."

"Who's marked up to fire for you, Bartholomew?"

Bartholomew Mullen looked at me fraternally. "Neighbor couldn't give me anybody but a wiper,
sir," said Bartholomew, in a sort of a wouldn't-that-kill-you tone.

The unconscious arrogance of the boy quite knocked me: so soon had honors changed his point
of view. Last night a despised wiper; at daybreak, an engineer; and his nose in the air at
the idea of taking on a wiper for fireman. And all so innocent.

"Would you object, Bartholomew," I suggested gently, "to a train-master for fireman?"

"I don't--think so, sir."

"Thank you; because I am going down to Zanesville this morning myself, and I thought I'd ride
with you. Is it all right?"

"Oh, yes, sir--if Neighbor doesn't care."

I smiled: he didn't know whom Neighbor took orders from; but he thought, evidently, not from me.

"Then run her down to the oranges, Bartholomew, and couple on, and we'll order ourselves out. See?"

The 44 looked like a baby-carriage when we got her in front of the refrigerators. However,
after the necessary preliminaries, we gave a very sporty toot, and pulled out. In a few minutes
we were sailing down the valley.

For fifty miles we bobbed along with our cargo of iced silk as easy as old shoes; for I need
hardly explain that we had packed the silk into the refrigerators to confuse the strikers.
The great risk was that they would try to ditch us.

I was watching the track as a mouse would a cat, looking every minute for trouble. We cleared
the gumbo cut west of the Beaver at a pretty good clip, in order to make the grade on the other
side. The bridge there is hidden in summer by a grove of hackberries. I had just pulled open
to cool her a bit when I noticed how high the back-water was on each side of the track. Suddenly
I felt the fill going soft under the drivers; felt the 44 wobble and slew. Bartholomew shut
off hard, and threw the air as I sprang to the window. The peaceful little creek ahead looked
as angry as the Platte in April water, and the bottoms were a lake.

Somewhere up the valley there had been a cloudburst, for overhead the sun was bright. The Beaver
was roaring over its banks, and the bridge was out. Bartholomew screamed for brakes: it looked
as if we were against it--and hard. A soft track to stop on; a torrent of storm-water ahead,
and ten hundred thousand dollars' worth of silk behind, not to mention equipment.

I yelled at Bartholomew, and motioned for him to jump; my conscience is clear on that point.
The 44 was stumbling along, trying like a drunken man to hang to the rotten track.

"Bartholomew!" I yelled; but he was head out and looking back at his train while he jerked
frantically at the air-lever. I understood: the air wouldn't work; it never will on those old
tubs when you need it. The sweat pushed out on me. I was thinking of how much the silk would
bring us after the bath in the Beaver. Bartholomew stuck to his levers like a man in a signal-tower,
but every second brought us closer to open water. Watching him intent only on saving his first
train--heedless of his life--I was actually ashamed to jump. While I hesitated he somehow got
the brakes to set; the old 44 bucked like a bronco.

It wasn't too soon. She checked her train nobly at the last, but I saw nothing could keep her
from the drink. I gave Bartholomew a terrific slap, and again I yelled; then turning to the
gangway, I dropped into the soft mud on my side: the 44 hung low, and it was easy lighting.

Bartholomew sprang from his seat a second later; but his blouse caught in the teeth of the
quadrant. He stooped quick as thought, and peeled the thing over his head. Then he was caught
fast by the wristbands, and the ponies of the 44 tipped over the broken abutment. Pull as he
would he couldn't get free. The pilot dipped into the torrent slowly. But losing her balance,
the 44 kicked her heels into the air like lightning, and shot with a frightened wheeze plump
into the creek, dragging her engineer with her.

The head car stopped on the brink. Running across the track, I looked for Bartholomew. He wasn't
there; I knew he must have gone down with his engine. Throwing off my gloves, I dived, just
as I stood, close to the tender, which hung half submerged. I am a good bit of a fish under
water, but no self-respecting fish would be caught in that yellow mud. I realized, too, the
instant I struck the water, that I should have dived on the upstream side. The current took
me away whirling; when I came up for air, I was fifty feet below the pier. I scrambled out,
feeling it was all up with Bartholomew; but to my amazement, as I shook my eyes open the train
crew were running forward, and there stood Bartholomew on the track above me, looking at the
refrigerator. When I got to him, he explained how he was dragged under and had to tear the
sleeve out of his blouse under water to get free.

The surprise is how little fuss men make about such things when they are busy. It took only
five minutes for the conductor to hunt up a coil of wire and a sounder for me, and by the time
he got forward with it, Bartholomew was half-way up a telegraph pole to help me cut in on a
live wire. Fast as I could, I rigged a pony, and began calling the McCloud despatcher. It was
rocky sending, but after no end of pounding, I got him and gave orders for the wrecking gang,
and for one more of Neighbor's rapidly decreasing supply of locomotives.

Bartholomew, sitting on a strip of fence which still rose above water, looked forlorn. To lose
in the Beaver the first engine he ever handled was tough, and he was evidently speculating
on his chances of ever getting another. If there weren't tears in his eyes, there was storm-water
certainly. But after the relief engine had pulled what was left of us back six miles to a siding,
I made it my first business to explain to Neighbor, who was nearly beside himself, that Bartholomew
not only was not at fault, but that by his nerve he had actually saved the train.

"I'll tell you, Neighbor," I suggested, when we got straightened around. "Give us the 109 to
go ahead as pilot, and run her around the river division with Foley and the 216."

"What'll you do with Number Six?" growled Neighbor. Six was the local passenger west.

"Annul it west of McCloud," said I instantly. "We've got this silk on our hands now, and I'd
move it if it tied up every passenger train on the division. If we can get the stuff through,
it will practically beat the strike. If we fail, it will beat the company."

By the time we had backed to Newhall Junction, Neighbor had made up his mind my way. Mullen
and I climbed into the 109, and Foley, with the 216, and none too good a grace, coupled on
to the silk, and flying red signals, we started again for Zanesville over the river division.

Foley was always full of mischief. He had a better engine than ours, and he took great satisfaction
the rest of the afternoon in crowding us. Every mile of the way he was on our heels. I was
throwing the coal, and have reason to remember. It was after dark when we reached the Beverly
Hill, and we took it at a lively pace. The strikers were not on our minds then; it was Foley
who bothered.

When the long parallel steel lines of the upper yards spread before us, flashing under the
arc lights, we were away above yard speed. Running a locomotive into one of those big yards
is like shooting a rapid in a canoe. There is a bewildering maze of tracks, lighted by red
and green lamps, which must be watched the closest to keep out of trouble. The hazards are
multiplied the minute you pass the throat, and a yard wreck is a dreadful tangle; it makes
everybody from road-master to flagman furious, and not even Bartholomew wanted to face an inquiry
on a yard wreck. On the other hand, he couldn't afford to be caught by Foley, who was chasing
him out of pure caprice.

I saw the boy holding the throttle at a half and fingering the air anxiously as we jumped over
the frogs; but the roughest riding on track so far beats the ties as a cushion, that when the
109 suddenly stuck her paws through an open switch we bounced against the roof of the cab like
footballs. I grabbed a brace with one hand, and with the other reached instinctively across
to Bartholomew's side to seize the throttle. But as I tried to shut him off, he jerked it wide
open in spite of me, and turned with lightning in his eye. "No!" he cried, and his voice rang
hard. The 109 took the tremendous shove at her back, and leaped like a frightened horse. Away
we went across the yard, through the cinders, and over the ties; my teeth have never been the
same since. I don't belong on an engine, anyway, and since then I have kept off. At the moment,
I was convinced that the strain had been too much, that Bartholomew was stark crazy. He sat
clinging like a lobster to his levers and bouncing clear to the roof.

But his strategy was dawning on me; in fact, he was pounding it into me. Even the shock and
scare of leaving the track and tearing up the yard had not driven from Bartholomew's noddle
the most important feature of our situation, which was, above everything, to keep out of the
way of the silk train.

I felt every moment more mortified at my attempt to shut him off. I had done the trick of the
woman who grabs the reins. It was even better to tear up the yard than to stop for Foley to
smash into and scatter the silk over the coal chutes. Bartholomew's decision was one of the
traits which make the runner: instant perception coupled to instant resolve. The ordinary dub
thinks what he should have done to avoid disaster after it is all over; Bartholomew thought before.

On we bumped, across frogs, through switches, over splits, and into target rods, when--and
this is the miracle of it all--the 109 got her forefeet on a split switch, made a contact,
and after a slew or two, like a bogged horse, she swung up sweet on the rails again, tender
and all. Bartholomew shut off with an under cut that brought us up stuttering, and nailed her
feet with the air right where she stood. We had left the track and plowed a hundred feet across
the yards and jumped on to another track. It is the only time I ever heard of its happening
anywhere, but I was on the engine with Bartholomew Mullen when it was done.

Foley choked his train the instant he saw our hind lights bobbing. We climbed down, and ran
back. He had stopped just where we should have stood if I had shut off.

Bartholomew ran to the switch to examine it. The contact light (green) still burned like a
false beacon; and lucky it did, for it showed that the switch had been tampered with and exonerated
Bartholomew Mullen completely. The attempt of the strikers to spill the silk in the yards had
only made the reputation of a new engineer. Thirty minutes later, the million-dollar train
was turned over to the East End to wrestle with, and we breathed, all of us, a good bit easier.

Bartholomew Mullen, now a passenger runner who ranks with Kennedy and Jack Moore and Foley
and George Sinclair himself, got a personal letter from the General Manager complimenting him
on his pretty wit; and he was good enough to say nothing whatever about mine.

We registered that night and went to supper together: Foley, Jackson, Bartholomew, and I. Afterward
we dropped into the despatcher's office. Something was coming from McCloud, but the operator
to save his life couldn't catch it. I listened a minute; it was Neighbor. Now, Neighbor isn't
great on despatching trains. He can make himself understood over the poles, but his sending
is like a boy's sawing wood--sort of uneven. However, though I am not much on running yards,
I claim to be able to take the wildest ball that ever was thrown along the wire, and the chair
was tendered me at once to catch Neighbor's extraordinary passes at the McCloud key. They came
something like this:

"To Opr. Tell Massacree"--that was the word that stuck them all, and I could perceive that
Neighbor was talking emphatically. He had apparently forgotten Bartholomew's last name, and
was trying to connect with the one he had "disremembered" the night before. "Tell Massacree,"
repeated Neighbor, "that he is al-l-l right. Tell hi-m I give him double mileage for to-day
all the way through. And to-morrow he gets the 109 to keep.--NEIGHB-B-OR."

I

THE BULLDOG BREED

A Story of the Russo-Japanese War

By AMBROSE PRATT

"WHAT do you make of her, Maclean?" asked Captain Brandon anxiously.

First mate Hugh Maclean did not reply at once. Embracing a stanchion of the S.S. Saigon's bridge
in order to steady himself against the vessel's pitching, he was peering with strained eyes
through the captain's binoculars at two small brown needle-points, set very close together,
that stabbed the northeastern horizon.

At length, however, he lowered the glass, and resumed the perpendicular.

"You were right, sir," he declared. "She has altered her course, and our paths now converge."

"Which proves that she is one of those d----d Russian volunteer pirates."

"Or else a Japanese cruiser, sir."

"Nonsense! The Jap cruisers have only one mast."

"So they have, sir. I was forgetting that."

"What to do!" growled the captain, and he fell to frowning and cracking his long fingers--his
habit when perplexed. He was a short, thick-set man, with a round, red face, keen blue eyes,
and strong, square jaws: a typical specimen of the old-time British sailor. Hugh Maclean, on
the other hand, was a lean and lank Australian, of evident Scottish ancestry. His long, aquiline
nose and high cheek-bones were tightly covered with a parchment-like skin, bronzed almost to
the hue of leather. He wore a close-cropped, pointed beard, and the deep-set gray eyes that
looked out from under the peak of his seaman's cap twinkled with good health and humor.

"We might alter our course, too, sir," he suggested.

"Ay!" snapped the other, "and get pushed for our pains on to the Teraghlind Reef. We are skirting
those rocks more closely than I like already."

"You know best, sir, of course. But I meant that we might slip back toward Manila, and try
the other channel after we have given that fellow the go-by."

"What!" snorted the captain, his blue eyes flashing fire, "run from the Russian! I'll be ----
first. We haven't a stitch of contraband aboard," he added more calmly a moment later. "He
daren't do more than stop and search us."

But Maclean shook his head. "One of them took and sunk the Acandaga last month, sir, and she
carried no contraband either."

"Russia will have to foot the bill for that."

"May be, sir. But Captain Tollis--as fine a chap as ever breathed, sir--has lost his ship,
and the Lord knows if he'll ever get another."

"Are you trying to frighten me, Maclean?" asked Captain Brandon, stormily.

The mate shrugged his shoulders. "No, sir; but I am interested in this venture, and if the
Saigon gets back all right to Liverpool I'm due to splice Mr. Keppel's niece, and the old gentleman,
as you know, has promised me a ship."

"And hasn't it entered your thick skull that to return as you suggest would cost fifty pounds'
worth of coal? How do you suppose old Kep would like that?"

"Better burn a few tons of coal than risk losing the Saigon, sir, and mark time till God knows
when in a Russian prison."

Captain Brandon shut his mouth with a snap, and muttered something about Scottish caution that
was distinctly uncomplimentary to the Caledonian race. Then, to signify the end of the argument,
he strode to the ladder, and prepared to descend. Maclean, however, was of an equally stubborn
character. "About the course, sir?" he demanded, touching his cap with ironical deference.

"Carry on!" snarled the captain, and he forthwith disappeared.

Two hours afterward Hugh Maclean knocked at the door of the captain's cabin, and was hoarsely
bidden enter. Captain Brandon was seated before a bottle of whisky, which was scarce half full.

"Have a nip?" he hospitably inquired.

Maclean nodded, and half filled a glass.

"Thank you, sir. Queer thing's happened," he observed, as he wiped his lips. "The Russian----"

"I know," interrupted the captain. "I've been watching her through the port. She's the Saigon's
twin-sister ship, that was the Saragossa which old Kep sold to Baron Dabchowski six months
ago. Much good it would have done us to run. She has the heels of us. Old Kep had just put
new triple-expansion engines into her before she changed hands. But they've killed the look
of her, converting her into a cruiser. She's nothing but a floating scrap-heap now."

"But she has six guns," observed Maclean. "Don't you think you'd better come up, sir? She is
almost near enough to signal."

"Well, well," said the captain, and putting away the whisky bottle, he led the way to the bridge.

Some half-dozen miles away, steaming at an angle to meet the Saigon at a destined point, there
plowed through the sea a large iron steamer of about three thousand tons' burden. She exactly
resembled the Saigon in all main points of build, and except for the fact that two guns were
mounted fore and aft on her main deck above the line of steel bulwarks, and that her masts
were fitted with small fighting tops, she might very well have passed for an ordinary merchantman.

For twenty minutes or thereabouts the two officers watched her in silence, taking turn about
with the binoculars; then, quite suddenly, the vessel, now less than two miles distant, luffed
and fell slightly away from her course.

"She is going to speak," said Captain Brandon, who held the glasses. "Look out!"

Maclean smiled at the caution; but next instant a bright flash quivered from the other vessel's
side, and involuntarily he ducked his head, for something flew dipping and shrieking over the
Saigon. In the following second there was heard the clap of the distant cannon and the splash
of a shell striking the sea close at hand. Invisible hands unfolded and shook out three balls
of bunting at the truck of the war-ship's signal boom. They fluttered for awhile, and then
spread out to the breeze. The arms of Russia surmounted two lines of symbolic letters.

"Quartermaster!" shouted Captain Brandon.

"Ay, ay, sir!" rang out a sailor's voice, and the Saigon's number raced a Union Jack to the
mast-head.

"Well, Mac?" cried the captain, with his hand on the engine-room signal-bell.

Maclean looked up from the book. "His Imperial Majesty of Russia, by the commander of the converted
cruiser Nevski, orders us to stop."

Captain Brandon pressed the lever, and before ten might be counted the shuddering of the Saigon's
screw had ceased.

"What next?" he muttered.

As if in answer, another flag fluttered up the Nevski's halliards.

"He will send a boat," interpreted Maclean.

A short period of fret and fume ensued, then a small steam launch rounded the Nevski's bows,
and sped like a gray-hound across the intervening space. The Nevski now presented her broadside
to the Saigon, and all of her six guns were trained upon the English steamer's decks. The launch
was crammed with men. Captain Brandon ordered a gangway to be lowered, and although the tars
sprang to the task with great alacrity, it was hardly completed before the launch touched the
Saigon's side. An officer, bedizened with gold lace, and accompanied by two glittering subordinates,
climbed aboard, and Captain Brandon met him on the main deck. Hugh Maclean, from the bridge,
watched them file into the captain's cabin. Ten minutes later they emerged, and without waiting
a moment the Russians hurried back into the launch. Captain Brandon's face was purple. He hurriedly
mounted to the bridge, and leaning over the rail cursed the departing launch at the top of
his voice in five different languages.

"What's the trouble, sir?" asked Maclean when his superior appeared at last to be exhausted.

"They want our coal. C----t them to ---- for all eternity," gasped the frenzied captain. "And
they'll blow us out of the water if we don't follow them to Tramoieu."

"Where is that?"

"It's a little island off the Cochin coast, a hundred miles from anywhere, with a harbor. By
---- they'll smart for this!"

"Not they," said Maclean. "That is, if you obey. They'll gut and scuttle the Saigon, and then
kill every mother's son of us. Dead men tell no tales. We'll be posted at Lloyds as a storm loss."

"But what can we do?"

"Full speed ahead, and ram her while she's picking up the launch! Chance the guns!"

"By ----! I'll do it!" shrieked the captain, and he sprang to the signal-bell. But even as
he grasped the lever with his hand, he paused.

"What now?" demanded the mate, his face tense with passion. "Hurry's the word, sir. Hurry!"

The captain, however, turned and looked him in the eye. "You've counseled me to murder--wholesale
murder, Maclean. Avast there, man! Keep your mouth shut. This is my bridge, and I'll not hear
another word from you."

The mate bit his lips and shrugged his shoulders. His eyes were blazing with contempt and rage,
but he kept his self-control, and was rewarded by a dozen sympathetic glances from those of
the crew grouped upon the deck who had heard the controversy. From that moment he was their
idol. The second mate, too, who was standing by the wheel, turned and nodded to him as he passed.

The captain, who missed nothing of this by-play, felt himself to have been absolutely isolated.
But he was a strong man, and he knew that he acted rightly. Five minutes later four thunderous
reports rang out, and shells splashed the sea on all sides of the Saigon. Then the machine-guns
began to speak, and a perfect storm of bullets tore through the vessel's rigging, some directed
so low that they pierced the top rim of the funnel smoke-stack. The display lasted sixty seconds.
When it was over, a very sheepish looking lot of men arose from the recumbent attitudes they
had assumed. Of the whole ship's company on deck, Captain Brandon, Hugh Maclean, and the chief
engineer had alone remained standing.

There was a new flag at the Nevski's truck. "Follow at full speed!" it commanded. The Saigon
instantly obeyed. Before night fell, the moon rose, three-quarters full. It lighted the procession
into dawn. Sunrise brought them to a rock-bound coast, and so nicely had the Nevski's navigator
steered, that the first headland circumvented made room for the revelation of a little bay.
It was enclosed on three sides with gray hills, and across the mouth was stretched a broken
line of hungry-looking surf-crowned reefs. The Nevski steamed boldly through the first opening,
and dropped her anchor in smooth water three-quarters of a mile beyond. The Saigon, currishly
obedient to the Russian's signals, followed suit, bringing up within a biscuit cast of her
consort and captor. An hour later Hugh Maclean, the engineer, and the lesser officers and thirty-two
men of the Saigon's company and some two score of Russian sailors were working like slaves
transferring, under the supervision of a strong guard, the Saigon's coal and cargo into the
Nevski's boats.

Captain Brandon was not among the toilers. He would have been, perhaps, but for the circumstance
that he had permitted himself the liberty of striking a Russian officer in the face. A marine
having retorted with the butt end of a carbine, the Englishmen had helplessly watched their
captain being carried off, bleeding and insensible, and dumped with a sickening thud into the
Russian launch. The incident encouraged them so much that they worked without complaint throughout
the day, and they did not even grumble at the rations which their taskmasters served out to
them. Shortly before dusk the breeze that had been blowing died away, and the Russians took
advantage of the calm to warp the vessels together. After that the business in hand proceeded
at such a pace that by dawn the Saigon was completely gutted, and she rode the water like a
swan, the greater part of her bulk in air. The weary Englishmen were thereupon driven like
sheep upon the Nevski's deck, and forced to descend the small after-hold, which was almost
empty. The hatches were then fastened over them for their greater security, and they were left
in darkness. But they were too worn out to care. Within five minutes every man of them was
sleeping dreamlessly, lying listlessly stretched out upon the ship's false bottom, excepting
only Hugh Maclean. He was too tired to sleep. He was, therefore, the only one who heard an
hour later the muffled boom of a distant explosion and a faint cheer on deck.

"They have sunk the poor old Saigon," muttered Maclean. "There goes the last hope of my captaincy
and Nellie Lane." He uttered a low groan, and covered his face with his grimy paws. Maclean
was very much in love, but he was too young and of too strenuous a temperament to rest for
long the victim of despair. Moreover, contempt for foreigners, particularly Russians, served
him instead of a religion, when not ashore, and he soon fell to wondering just where was the
weak spot in his captor's armor, and how he could find and put his finger on it. That there
was a weak spot he did not doubt at all. He searched his pockets and found half a plug of tobacco,
but not his meerschaum. A Russian sailor had confiscated that some hours before. Maclean consigned
the thief to perdition, and with some trouble bit off a plug. Then he lay back to chew and
think. "There's only one thing to do," was the result of his reflections. "We'll have to take
this boat from the Russians somehow."

But exhausted nature would not be denied, and before he knew it Maclean was in the land of
dreams. He was awakened by the noisy removal of a portion of the hatch. He looked up and saw
the moon, also a couple of bearded faces looking down at him.

"Good Lord!" he groaned, "I've slept the day out."

"You hingry--men--like--eat?" observed a hoarse voice. And Maclean saw an immense steaming
pan descending toward him on a line. He caught it deftly. A can of water and a tin of biscuits
followed. He was instantly surrounded by the Saigon's company, who attacked the contents of
the pan like wolves. He seized a lump of fat meat from the mess, also a couple of biscuits,
and retired apart. The darkness renewed itself a second later, and for some time the hold buzzed
with the noise of crunching jaws and guttural exclamations.

Of a sudden someone near him struck a match, and Maclean looked over the flame into the eyes
of Robert Sievers, the Saigon's chief engineer.

"Hello, Mac," said Sievers.

"Good evening, Sievers," replied Maclean politely. "We're still at anchor."

"I've remarked it. What do you suppose they intend to do with us?"

"Maroon us, likely, if we let them, on the island yonder."

"How can we prevent them? But I think not. It's my belief this meat is poisoned!"

"Tastes vile enough," agreed Maclean, but he went on eating, and Robert Sievers, after a momentary
hesitation, followed suit.

"We're in the devil of a hole!" he muttered, his mouth full of biscuit. Then he swore horribly,
for the match had burned his fingers.

Maclean stood up. "Any of you men happen to have a bit of candle in your pockets?" he demanded.

Silence for a minute, then a Norwegian fireman spoke up. "Bout dree inches," he said.

"He eats 'em," cried another voice, and a roar of laughter greeted the announcement.

"Pass it here," commanded Maclean.

Sievers struck another match, and presently the steady flame of a candle stump showed Maclean
a picture such as Gustave Doré would have loved to paint. He glanced at the begrimed faces
of the Saigon's wild and ghastly looking company, and beyond them for a moment, then stumbled
over the coal, followed by Sievers, until he was brought up by the iron partition of the hold.
He made, however, straight for the bulkhead, and stooping down, held the candle close to the
line of bolts covering the propeller's tunnel.

"By Jingo!" cried Sievers. "I see your game. Let me look, Maclean! This is my trade."

He bent forward, wrenched at a shoot-bolt, and with a cry of satisfaction threw back a plate.
The Saigon's company crowded round the man-hole thus revealed, muttering with excitement.

"One moment, Sievers!" cried Maclean, for the engineer had one leg already in the tunnel. Then
he turned to the men. "My lads," he said, "it's a case of our lives or the Russians', for I
firmly believe the accursed pirates mean to kill us. We must take this ship by hook or by crook,
and I think I see the way to do it!" He concluded with some precise instructions, and a few
savage sentences, in which he promised an unmentionable fate to the unfortunate who made a
sound or failed to follow to the letter his instructions.

A second later, in a silence that could be felt, he blew out the light, and followed Sievers
into the tunnel. A few cave-black yards, crawled painfully on hands and knees, slipping and
slithering along the propeller shaft, brought the leaders to the edge of a wider space. Sievers
struck a match, and a well-like, vertical opening was revealed. High overhead towered and threatened
an enormous steel crank. Before their feet lay a deep pool of slime. The heat was horrible.

"It should be hereabouts," whispered Sievers, and his fingers searched the wall. For a moment
nothing could be heard but the deep breathing of the Saigon's company. Then came a slight but
terrifying clang.

"I've got it!" whispered Sievers. "Are you ready?"

"Right!"

Maclean's eyes were dazzled of a sudden with a hot flare of light, and the deafening thud of
the condensers smote in his ears. He never quite coherently remembered that which immediately
ensued, for something struck him on the head.

When he came to his full senses again he was lying on a grating beside the body of the Russian
cleaner he had strangled. The Saigon's men were all around him. He arose, gasping for breath.
Sievers thrust a bar into his hand and pointed to a line of ladders. Maclean nodded, crossed
the grating, and began to climb. Sievers, armed with a hammer, followed at his heels.

There were three men in the engine-room, an engineer and two cleaners. They took the climbers
for stokers, and went on with their occupations. Maclean sidled to the door across the grating
and closed it in the twinkling of an eye. The engineer, who was reading a newspaper, heard
the noise and looked up. Sievers struck him with the hammer and flew at one of the cleaners.
Maclean rushed at the other with his spade. It was all over in a moment, and without any noise
that the thudding of the donkey-engine did not drown. Maclean changed coats and caps with the
insensible Russian engineer, while Sievers called the Saigon's men from below. He then strapped
on the man's dirk, and put his revolver in his pocket.

"What next?" asked Sievers.

Maclean glanced at the engine-room clock. The hands pointed to seven-fifteen. "Captain and
officers are just about half through their dinner," he reflected.

"Wait here," he said aloud: "I'm going to reconnoitre. Just keep the door ajar when I leave.
Let anyone come in that wants to, but crack him over the skull once he gets inside."

"Ay, ay, sir!"

Maclean opened the door and stepped out leisurely upon the deck. Before him rose the captain's
cabin, the officers' quarters, and the bridge above. Beyond that stretched the main deck, with
the forecastle far forward. An officer paced the bridge; some two score sailors were grouped
about the forecastle door drinking tea, and the rattle of knives and forks, the clink of glasses,
and sounds of talk and laughter proceeding from the saloon astern sufficiently located the
leaders of his enemies. Maclean thought hard for a moment, then pulling his cap over his eyes
walked underneath the bridge and looked up. As he had expected, and ardently hoped, he perceived
the muzzle of a machine-gun protruding from the very centre of the iron rampart. Thanking Providence
for two years spent in the service of the New South Wales Naval Brigade in his younger days,
he returned to the engine-room door, and after a cautious whisper stepped inside.

"Sievers," said he, "the officers are all at dinner astern. Take this revolver, and when you
hear me knock three times on the railing of the bridge, sneak out with all the men and rush
the cabin. Most of the crew are forward. I'll look after them; there's a Nordenfeldt on the
bridge."

"Ay, ay, sir!"

"Give me your hammer!"

"Good luck to you, sir!"

Maclean took the hammer, slipped it under his jacket, and once more sought the deck. A steward
passed him at a run, and two stokers proceeding toward the engine-house saluted his uniform.
He pulled his cap over his eyes, and began to climb the ladder. The Nevski was swinging softly
at her anchor, her nose pointing to the land. On the distant beach a small fire was burning,
and at this the officer of the watch was gazing through his telescope. He was quite alone,
and standing in a shaded corner of the bridge. "What sort of a watch can one man keep?" muttered
Maclean who had served on an Australian gunboat. He stepped to the officer's side, seized the
telescope in his left hand, and as the startled man turned, he dealt him a terrible blow on
the nape of his neck with the hammer. The officer fell into his arms sighing out his breath.
Maclean laid him gently on the floor, and relieved him of his revolver. Then he slid softly
to the machine-gun, and uttered a low, irrepressible cry of joy to find that it was stored
with cartridges and prepared for action. A moment later its muzzle commanded the deck before
the forecastle. One of the sailors had just commenced a song. He had a fine tenor voice, and
the others listened entranced. Maclean, however, rapped three times very loudly on the railing
with his hammer, and the song ceased.

Someone called to him in Russian, but he would not have answered even if he understood. His
every sense was strained to listen. He counted twenty, the song commenced again. Thirty, forty.
Then a wild scream resounded through the vessel.

"Sievers is dealing with the watch on the after-hold," muttered Maclean. "Hurry!" he whispered.
"Hurry! Sievers, hurry!"

The sailors forward were now afoot, exclaiming aloud and glancing questioningly at one another.
A great many more, too, poured out every second from the forecastle, made curious by the noise.
Maclean grasped the crank firmly and gave them every scrap of his attention. There woke an
increasing buzz of shouts and cries astern. It culminated presently in the crack of a revolver,
a shriek of pain, and a wild British cheer. Then all over the din a loud, insistent whistle
shrilled. The sailors forward rushed for their stacked arms, and formed in ranks with the speed
of magic. A petty officer shouted a command, and down the deck they started at the double.

"Halt!" Maclean shouted, and he turned the crank of the Nordenfeldt. The effect was horrible.
A dozen fell at the first discharge. The rest halted, and after one dazed instant's wavering,
threw down their arms, broke and fled for the cover of the forecastle. The air was filled with
the sound of groans. The deck was like a shambles. Maclean watched three or four poor wounded
creatures crawl off on their hands and knees for shelter and he shuddered violently.

He was already sick to death of war. But the fight was not yet over. He heard footsteps on
the ladder behind him, and turned just in time to escape a sweeping sword stroke. Next instant
he was locked in a deadly struggle with the captain of the Nevski, a brave man, who, it seems,
had refused to surrender, and had cut his way through all Sievers's men in the desperate resolve
to retrieve the consequences of his own carelessness. Maclean, however, was a practised wrestler,
and although lean almost as a lath, the muscles he possessed were as strong as steel bands.
Even as they fell he writhed uppermost, and baffling with an active elbow the captain's last
effort to transfix him, he dashed his adversary's head upon the boards. A second later he arose,
breathless, but quite uninjured.

Sievers was calling to him: "Maclean! Maclean! I say!"

"Hallo, there!" he gasped back, hoarsely.

"Look out for the captain. He escaped us!"

"I've got him!" croaked Maclean, with a grim glance at his unconscious foe. "How about the rest?"

"All sigarnio! What shall I do?"

"Drive them forward to the foc'sle."

Sievers obeyed, and very soon five splendidly upholstered, but shamefaced-looking gentlemen,
three stewards, and four sailors were standing underneath the beacon light before the forecastle
companion. Maclean noted that already many of the Saigon's men carried swords and carbines.
He watched the rest arm themselves with the Nevski sailors' discarded weapons as they marched
their prisoners along the deck. His breast began to swell with pride.

"Any casualties?" he demanded.

"Two of ours have crossed over," replied Sievers, "and some of us are hurt a bit. But we can't
grumble. There are four Russian corpses aft, and I see you've bagged seven."

"Damned pirates!" commented Maclean. "I've a mind to shoot the rest of them out of hand."

"Just give the word, sir."

"No," said Maclean, "we'll maroon them instead. Lower away all the boats but one, Sievers,
and bring them under the bows. I can look after these dogs!"

"Ay, ay, sir. But first three cheers for Captain Maclean, lads!"

The cheers were given with hearty good-will, and then the men tramped off to carry out their
new task.

Maclean, whose face was still flushed from the compliment that had been paid him, leaned over
the machine-gun and surveyed the prisoners.

"Can any of you pirate scum speak English?" he demanded truculently.

"I have that privilege, sir," replied a swart-faced lieutenant.

"Then kindly inform your friends that at the first sign of any monkey trick I'll send you all
to kingdom come."

The officer complied presumably with this command, and when he had finished, addressed Maclean:

"You cannot intend to maroon us, sir?" he cried. "The island yonder is totally uninhabited."

"You're a liar!" retorted Maclean. "Fires don't light themselves. Look yonder."

The officer choked back an oath. "Have a care what you are doing, sir," he muttered in a strangled
voice. "This will lead to a war between your country and mine."

"I guess not--not even if I hanged the lot of you--you dirty pirates. But if it did, what then?"

"You should see, sir."

"And so would you--see that Englishmen can fight a durned sight better than the Japs. I guess
you know how they fight by this."

"I have always heard that the English are generous foes, sir----"

"None of your blarney," interrupted Maclean. "Short shrift to pirates, is an English motto.
You sank our ship: we take yours. Fair exchange is no robbery. You should be thankful to get
off with your skins."

"At least permit us to take with us our personal belongings."

"Not a match."

"Some provisions?"

"Not a biscuit."

"Some arms, then, to defend ourselves against the natives, if we are attacked?"

"Not a penknife."

"Sir, you condemn us to death!"

"Sir, we have but forestalled your intention in regard to us!"

"As God hears me, sir----"

"Shut up!" cried Maclean, "your voice hurts my ears."

Nevertheless, when all was ready, Maclean commanded Sievers to stock the boats with water and
provisions, and to throw some fifty swords and bayonets aboard. Then began the debarkation.
Using the officer who could speak English as his mouthpiece, Maclean commanded the crew of
the Nevski to file out one by one from the forecastle, and slide down a rope over the vessel's
bows into the waiting boats. They numbered one hundred and thirty-three all told, but not a
man offered to resist, and within an hour the last boat had sheered off, carrying with its
hale company the still unconscious bodies of the Russian captain and the officer of the watch.
Maclean's next business was to bury the dead, which done, he searched the ship. He made two
discoveries: He found in the captain's cabin a chest containing no less than fifteen thousand
golden rubles; and locked away in one of the disused bathrooms astern, inhumanly disposed of
in a tub, the silent form of Captain Brandon. But the tough little bulldog of an Englishman
was by no means dead, and when some three days later the ghost of what had been the Nevski
steamed out of the bay of Tramoieu, he was already so far recovered from the terrible blow
that had laid him low, but which had, nevertheless, failed to shatter his hard skull, as to
be engaged in a confused but constant effort to remember. On the following morning he insisted
upon getting up, and was helped afterward by a steward to the bridge.

Maclean greeted him with a genial smile.

"Well done, sir," he cried heartily. "Glad to see you up again and looking so fit. The old
Saigon has been as dull as a coffin-ship without you."

Captain Brandon nodded, frowned, and glanced around him. A carpenter close by was busily at
work painting S.S. Saigon upon a row of virgin-white life buoys. The captain wondered and glanced
up at the masts. They were just ordinary masts in the sense that they had no fighting tops,
but they gleamed with wet paint. He frowned again, and, wondering more and more, looked forward.
There was not the slightest trace of a cannon to be seen--but the deck in one place had a canvas
covering. He began to crack his fingers, his old habit, but a moment later he abruptly turned
and faced the mate.

"Maclean," said he.

The eyes of the two men met.

"This is not the Saigon, Maclean," said Captain Brandon.

"You'll see it in iron letters on her bows, sir, if you look."

"Come into the chart-room."

Maclean obeyed, chuckling under his breath.

"Tell me how you did it," commanded the captain as he took a chair.

"It was as easy as rolling off a log, sir," replied the first mate. "The blighters clapped
us into the small after-hold, but totally forgot there was such a thing there as a propeller
tunnel. We got into the stoke-hole and collared the engine-room while the Russians were at
dinner. Then, while I covered the sailors forward with the machine-gun on the bridge, Sievers
took the gold-laced crowd aft with a rush. The rest is not worth telling, for you know it.
All that is to say, barring the fact that we're the richer by 15,000 rubles and triple-expansion
engines, and the poorer by two of our crew the Russian captain killed."

Captain Brandon drew a deep breath.

"What course are we steering," he demanded.

"Straight for Kobe, sir, to carry out our charter. We've every stick of the old cargo aboard--the
pirates saw to that--also our books and papers. The guns are all at the bottom of the sea.
We'll be a bit late, but we can easily rig up a yarn to explain."

"But the Russians will talk."

"No fear, sir: they'd be too ashamed to own up the truth; ay, and afraid as well, for what
they did was piracy on the high seas--nothing less. You take my tip for it, sir, one of these
days we'll hear that the Nevski struck a reef."

"We'll have to tell the owners, though--what will they say?"

Maclean closed one eye. "The new Saigon has triple-expansion engines, sir. If I know anything
of Mr. Keppel, he'll be better pleased with a ship in the hand than a cause of action against
the Russian Government."

"But our own men?"

"Why, sir, we have 7,000 rubles to share among them. They'll be made for life."

"But I thought you said just now there were 15,000?"

"So I did, sir; but there's only you and Sievers and myself know how much there is exactly:
there was no call to shout it all over the ship. And I've figured it out this way: You, as
captain, are entitled to the most, and you'll want all of four thousand to heal up the memory
of that crack you got on your skull properly. That'll leave two for Sievers to do with as he
likes, and two for me to buy Nellie--that's Mrs. Maclean that is to be--just the sort of house
she's set her heart on these ages back. What do you say, sir?"

"What do I say, Maclean?" cried Captain Brandon, his eyes big with excitement and surprise,
too, perhaps. "Why, I say this: You are that rare thing, a sensible, honest man! Tip us your
flipper!"

II

ICE IN JUNE

A Playwright's Story

By FRED M. WHITE

"THAT," said Ethel Marsh judicially, "is the least stupid remark you have made during our five
weeks' acquaintance."

"Which means that I am improving," John Chesney murmured. "There is hope even for me. You cannot
possibly understand how greatly I appreciate----"

The sentence trailed off incoherently as if the effort had been all too much. It was hard to
live up to the mental brilliance of Ethel Marsh. She had had the advantage, too, of a couple
of seasons in town, whilst Chesney was of the country palpably. She also had the advantage
of being distractingly pretty.

Really, she had hoped to make something of Chesney. It seemed to her that he was fitted for
better things than tennis-playing and riding and the like. It seemed strange that he should
prefer his little cottage to the broader delights of surveying mankind from China to Peru.

The man had possibilities, too. For instance, he knew how to dress. There was an air about
his flannels, a suggestion in his Norfolk suits. He had the knack of the tie so that it sat
just right, and his boots.... A clean-cut face, very tanned; deep, clear gray eyes, very steady.
He was like a dog attached very much to a careless master. The thing had been going on for
five weeks.

Ethel was staying with the Frodshams. They were poor for their position, albeit given to hospitality--at
a price. Most people call this kind of thing taking in paying guests. It was a subject delicately
veiled. Ethel had come down for a fortnight, and she had stayed five weeks. Verily the education
of John Chesney was a slow process. Chesney was a visitor in the neighborhood, too; he had
a little furnished cottage just by the Goldney Park lodge gates, where a house-keeper did for
him. As for the rest he was silent. He was a very silent man.

It was too hot for tennis, so the two had wandered into the woods. A tiny trout stream bubbled
by, the oak and beech ferns were wet with the spray of it. Between the trees lances of light
fell, shafts of sunshine on Ethel's hair and face. It was at this point that Chesney made the
original remark. It slipped from him as naturally as if he had been accustomed to that kind
of thing.

"I am afraid you got that from Mr. John Kennedy," Ethel said. "I am sure that you have seen
Mr. Kennedy's comedy 'Flies in Ointment.' Confess now!"

"Well, I have," Chesney confessed accordingly. "I--I saw it the night it was produced. On the
whole it struck me as rather a feeble thing."

"Oh, really? We are getting on, Mr. Chesney. Let me tell you that I think it is the cleverest
modern comedy I have ever seen."

"Yes! In that case you like the part of 'Dorothy Kent?'"

Ethel's dainty color deepened slightly. She glanced suspiciously at the speaker. But he was
gazing solidly, stolidly, into space--like a man who had just dined on beef. The idea was too
preposterous. The idea of John Chesney chaffing her, chaffing anybody.

"I thought perhaps you did," Chesney went on. "Mr. Kent is a bit of a butterfly, a good sort
at the bottom, but decidedly of the species lepidopteræ----"

"Stop!" Ethel cried. "Where did you get that word from? Whence comes it in the vocabulary of
a youth--a youth? Oh, you know what I mean."

"I believe it is a general name for insects," Chesney said humbly. "Mrs. Kent is a good sort,
but a little conceited. Apt to fancy herself, you know. Young widows of her type often do.
She is tired of the artificial existence of town, and goes off into the country, where she
leads the simple life. She meets a young man there, who, well, 'pon my word, is rather like
me. He was a bit of an ass----"

"He was nothing of the kind," Ethel cried indignantly. "He was splendid. And he made that woman
love him, he made her acknowledge that she had met her match at last. And he turned out to
be one of the most brilliant----"

"My dear Miss Ethel, after all it was only a play. You remind me of 'Mrs. Kent,' and you say
that I remind you of the hero of the play who----"

"I didn't, Mr. Chesney. I said nothing of the kind. It is unfair of you----"

"When the likeness is plain enough," Chesney said stubbornly. "You are 'Mrs. Kent,' and I am
the hero of the comedy. Do you think that there is any possibility that some day you and--of
course not yet, but----"

Miss Marsh sat there questioning the evidence of her coral-pink ears. She knew that she was
furiously angry because she felt so cool about it. She knew that the more furious one was,
the more calm and self-contained the senses become. The man meant nothing, either--one could
see that by the respectful expression of his eye. Still----

"You are quite wrong," Ethel said. "You have altogether misunderstood the motif of the play.
I presume you know what a motif is?"

"I think so," Chesney said humbly. "It is a word they apply in music when you don't happen
to understand what the composer--especially the modern composer--is driving at."

"Oh, let it pass," Ethel said hopelessly. "You have misunderstood the gist of the play, then!
'Walter Severn' in the comedy is a man of singular points. He is a great author. Instead of
being that woman's plaything, he is her merciless analyst. The great scene in the play comes
when she finds this out. Now, you do not for a moment presume to put yourself on a level with
'Walter Severn,' do you?"

Chesney was bound to admit the height of his audacity. His eyes were fixed humbly on his Minerva;
he was Telemachus seated at the feet of the goddess. And even yet he did not seem really cognizant
of the enormity of his offence. He saw the sunlight on that sweetly serious face, he saw the
beams playing with the golden meshes of her hair. No doubt he was fully conscious of his own
inferiority, for he did not speak again. It was for him to wait. The silence deepened; in the
heart of the wood a blackbird was piping madly on a blackthorn.

"Before you go away," Chesney hazarded, "I should very much like----"

"But I am not going away, at least not yet. Besides, I have a purpose to serve. I am waiting
until those impossible people leave Goldney Park. I understand that they have already gone,
but on that head I am not sure. I want to go over the house. The late owner, Mr. Mainbrace,
was a great friend of my family. Before he died he was so good as to express a wish that the
heir to the property should come and see us and--but that part is altogether too ridiculous.
And as an only daughter----"

"I see," Chesney said reflectively. "The heir and yourself. It sounds ridiculous. Now, if you
had been in the least like the romantic type of young woman, perhaps----"

"How do you know that I am not? Am I like Byron's woman: 'Seek roses in December, ice in June'?
Well, perhaps you are right. After all, one doesn't find ice in June. However, the heir to
the Goldney Park estate and myself never met. He let the place to those awful Gosway people
for three years and went abroad. There was not even the suspicion of a romance. But I am curious
to see the house, all the same."

"Nothing easier, Miss Marsh. Let us go and see it after luncheon. The Gosways have gone, you
may take my word for that, and only a caretaker is in possession. Will you come with me this
afternoon?"

The prospect was not displeasing. Miss Marsh poised it in her mind for a few moments. There
was Chesney's education to be thought of as well. On the whole, she decided that there might
be less pleasant ways of spending a hot August afternoon.

"I think I'll come," she said. "I want to see the old furniture and the pictures. I love old
furniture. Perhaps if the heir to the property had gone on his knees whilst I was seated on
a priceless Chippendale settee, I might----"

"You might, but I don't think you would," Chesney interrupted. "Whatever your faults may be
I am sure you are not mercenary."

"Really! How good of you! The thing that we are apt to call depravity----"

"Is often another name for the promptings of poor human nature."

Miss Marsh turned and stared at the speaker. Really, his education was progressing at a most
amazing rate. Without the least sign of mental distress he had delivered himself of an epigram.
There was quite a flavor of Piccadilly about it. And Chesney did not appear in the least conscious
of his achievement. Ethel rose and shook out the folds of her dainty muslin dress.

"Isn't it getting late?" she asked. "I'm sure it is lunch time. You can walk as far as the
gate with me, and I will meet you here at three o'clock."

She passed thoughtfully across the lawn to the house, her pretty brows knitted in a thoughtful
frown. Was she giving her pupil too much latitude? Certainly he had begun to show symptoms
of an audacious presumption, which in the earlier days had been conspicuous by its absence.
Whereupon Miss Marsh sighed three times without being in the least aware of the painful fact.

       *        *       *       *       *

"This," said Chesney, "is the Norman Tower, built by John Mainbrace, who was the original founder
of the family. The first two trees in the avenue of oaks that leads up to the house were planted
by Queen Elizabeth. She also slept on several occasions in the house; indeed, the bedroom she
occupied is intact to this day. The Virgin Queen seemed to pass most of her time, apart from
affairs of state, in occupying bedrooms, so that the descendants of her courtiers might be
able to boast about it afterward. Those who could not give the royal lady a shakedown had special
bedrooms fitted up and lied about them. It was an innocent deception."

Miss Marsh eyed her pupil distrustfully. The educational progress was flattering, and at the
same time a little disturbing. She had never seen Chesney in this gay and frivolous, not to
say excited, mood before. The man was positively glib. There were distinct flashes of wit in
his discourse, too. And where did he get so close and intimate a knowledge of the old house from?

He knew every nook and corner. He took her through the grand old park where the herd of fallow
deer were grazing; he showed her the Dutch and Italian gardens; he knew even the history of
the sundial on the terrace. And yet they had not been within the house, though the great hall
door stood hospitably open. They moved at length out of the glare of the sunshine into the
grateful shadows. Glint of armor and gleam of canvas were all there. Ethel walked along in
an ecstasy of quiet enjoyment. Rumor had not lied as to the artistic beauties of Goldney Park.
The Mainbraces must have been a tasteful family. They had it all here, from the oaken carvings
of the wandering monks down through Grinling Gibbons and Pugin, and away to Chippendale and
Adam, and other masters of the Georgian era. They came at length to the chamber sacred to the
Virgin Queen; they contemplated the glorious view from the window in silent appreciation tinged
with rapture.

"It's exquisite," Ethel said in a low voice. "If this were my house I should be very much tempted
to commit an act of sacrilege. I should want this for my own room. I'm afraid I could not resist
such an opportunity."

"Easily done," said Chesney. "No trouble to discover from the family archives that a mistake
had been made, and that Elizabeth of blessed memory had not slept in this room. Being strong-minded
she preferred a north aspect, and this is due south. You would get a reputation for sound historical
knowledge as well."

Certainly the education was progressing. But Ethel let it pass. She was leaning out of the
latticed windows with the creamy roses about her hair; she was falling unconsciously under
the glamour of the place.

"It is exquisite," she sighed. "If this were only mine!"

"Well, it is not too late. The heir will be here before long, probably. You have only to introduce
the name of Mr. Mainbrace and say who you are, and then----"

"Oh, no. If I happened to be in love with a man--what am I saying? Of course, no girl who respects
herself could possibly marry a man for the sake of his position. Even 'Mrs. Dorothy Kent,'
to whom you compared me this morning, was above that kind of thing. She married the man she
loved after all, you know. But I forget--you did not think much of the comedy."

"I didn't. I thought it was vague and incomplete. I am certain of it now. This is the real
thing; the other was merely artificial. And when the hero brought 'Dorothy Kent' to the home
of his ancestors he already knew that she loved him. And I am glad to know that you would never
marry a man like that because it gives me courage----"

"Gives you courage! Whatever for?"

"Why, to make a confession. You laughed at me just now when I presumed to criticize your favorite
modern comedy. As a matter of fact, I have every right to criticize it. You see, I happen to
be the author. I am 'John Kennedy'! I have been writing for the stage, or trying to write for
the stage, for years. I got my new idea from that old wish of my uncle's that you and I should
come together. It struck me as a pretty suggestion for a comedy."

"Stop, stop," Ethel cried. "One thing at a time, if you please. Positively you overwhelm me
with surprise. In one breath you tell me you are 'John Kennedy,' and then, without giving a
poor girl a chance, you say you are the owner of Goldney Park."

"But I didn't," Chesney protested. "I never said anything of the kind."

"No, but you inferred it. You say you got the idea from your uncle--I mean the suggestion that
you and I--oh, I really cannot say it."

"I'm afraid I'm but a poor dramatist after all," Chesney said lamely. "I intended to keep that
confession till after I had--but no matter. At any rate, there is no getting away from the
fact that my pen name is 'John Kennedy.'"

"And you wrote 'Flies in Ointment'? And you have been laughing at me all this time? You were
amused because I took you for a simple countryman, you whom men call the Sheridan of to-day!
After all the pains I took with your education."

Ethel's voice rose hysterically. Points of flame stood out from the level of her memory of
the past five weeks and scorched her. How this man must have been amused, how consumedly he
must have laughed at her! And she had never guessed it, never once had she had an inkling of
the truth.

"You have behaved disgracefully, cruelly," she said unsteadily.

"I don't think so," Chesney said coolly. "After all is said and done, we were both posing,
you know. You were playing 'Mrs. Kent' to my hero. It seemed a pity to disturb so pleasant
a pastoral. And no harm has been done."

Ethel was not quite so sure of that. But then for the nonce she was regarding the matter from
a strictly personal point of view.

"I hardly think you were playing the game," she said.

"Why not? I come down here where nobody knows me. It is my whim to keep quiet the fact that
Goldney Park belongs to me. As to my dramatic tastes, they don't concern anybody but myself.
I take a cottage down here until those tenants of mine are ready to go. They are such utter
bounders that I have no desire to disclose my identity to them. And so it falls about that
I meet you. Then I recollect all that my uncle has said about you. I cultivate your acquaintance.
It wasn't my fault that you took me for a countryman with no idea beyond riding a horse and
shooting a pheasant. Your patronage was very pretty and pleasing, and I am one of those men
who always laugh or cry inside. It is perhaps a misfortune that I can always joke with a grave
face. But don't forget that the man who laughs inside is also the man who bleeds inside, and
these feel the worst. Come, Ethel, you are not going to be angry because you have lost the
game playing with your own weapons."

The education was finished, the schoolmaster was abroad--very much abroad. In his cool, masterful
way Chesney had taken matters into his own hands. He was none the less handsome because he
looked so stern, so sure of his ground.

"You are a man and I am a woman," she faltered.

"Of course. How could the comedy proceed otherwise? Now where shall we move these Elizabethan
relics? After what you said just now they could not possibly remain here. Among the family
archives I dare say----"

Chesney paused; he was conscious of the fact that two large diamond drops were stealing down
Ethel's cheeks. It seemed the most natural thing in the world for him to cross over and take
her hands in his.

"My dear child, what have I said to pain you," he said. "I am truly sorry."

"You--you take too much for granted," Ethel sobbed. "You make me feel so small and silly. And
you have no right to assume that I--I could care for anybody simply because he happens to possess
a p--p--place like Goldney Park."

"But, my darling, I didn't. I was delighted when you said just now that you would never marry
a man you did not care for, even if he could give you Chippendale for breakfast, so to speak.
I watched your face then. I am sure that you were speaking from the bottom of your heart. I
have been watching you for the last five weeks, my sweetheart. And they have been the happiest
weeks in my life.

"Laughing at me, I suppose! It's all the same if you do laugh inside."

"No, I don't think I laughed," Chesney said thoughtfully. "I only know that I have been very
much charmed. And besides, see how useful it has been to me to be in a position to hear all
the weak points in my literary armor. When I come to write my next comedy, it will be far in
advance of 'Flies in Ointment.' I have learned so much of human nature, you see."

Ethel winked the tears from her lids; her eyes were all the brighter for the passing shower,
like a sky in April, Chesney thought. A smile was on her face, her lips were parted. As a lover
Chesney was charming. She wondered how she was playing her part. But she need not have had
any anxiety. There was nothing wanting in the eyes of the man opposite, and his face said so.

"You are going to put me into it?" she asked.

"Why, of course. There is no other woman so far as I can see. Why are you pulling my roses
to pieces like that? Do you know that that rose tree was planted a hundred years ago by Thomas
à Becket after the battle of Agincourt? My dear, I am so happy that I could talk nonsense all
day. And I say, Ethel----"

The girl broke off one of the creamy roses and handed it shyly to Chesney.

"Væ victis," she said with a flushing smile. "It is yours. You have conquered."

"Yes, but I want all the fruits of victory. I ask for a hand and you give me--a rose. Am I
not going to have the hand as well as the rose, dear?"

He had the hand and the rose and the slender waist; he drew her toward him in his strong, masterful
way, and his lips lay on hers in a lingering pressure. It was a long time before the girl looked
up; then her eyes were full of shy happiness.

III

THE DITTY-BOX

A Pawnbroker's Story

By OWEN OLIVER

IN THE course of our dealings over the curiosities that my brother sent home from Burma, Mr.
Levy and I became very good friends. When we had finished one of our deals we generally had
a chat in the quaint little room behind his queer little shop in the old-world alley frequented
by sailormen. On one of these occasions he mentioned that the cigar which he had given me was
the brand which he always smoked; and the quality of the cigar suggested opulence.

"If you can afford cigars like this," I remarked, "you must make some pretty good bargains
with your curiosities!"

"Good and bad," he said. "That's the way in business--in life, if you come to that!" He was
a bit of a philosopher.

"You make more good bargains than bad ones, I'll be bound," I asserted.

"Yes," he agreed; "but it isn't so much that. The bad aren't very bad, as a rule; and some
of the good are very good. That's where I get my profit."

"What was the best bargain you ever made?" I asked.

He filled his glass and pushed the decanter toward me.

"The best bargain I ever made," he said, "was over a ditty-box."

I helped myself to a little whiskey.

"A ditty-box? I thought they were ordinary sailors' chests that they keep their clothes in?"

"Not exactly chests," he corrected. "They're smallish boxes that they keep their needles and
thread in, and their money, and anything else that they set store by--their letters or their
sweethearts' photos, or their wives'--or other people's! There's no profit in them, and I don't
deal in them in a general way. I got my gain out of this one in a roundabout fashion; but it
was handsome. If you've got half an hour to spare I'll tell you about it."

This was his story:

It was eight years ago, and I'd had Isaac for seven years, and concluded that he was to be
trusted. So I took it into my head to have a fortnight's holiday and leave him in charge of
the shop. Everything was in order when I came back, and the books balanced to a penny. Business
had been pretty good, he told me, but nothing out of the ordinary.

"Unless," he said, "I've stumbled on a good thing by accident. It's a ditty-box; rather a superior
one, and a good bit bigger than usual; almost a chest; brass bound and a nice bit of poker-work
on it; a girl's head. I've put it in your bedroom."

"Ah!" I said. "Ah-h!" He wouldn't make this fuss over a bit of poker-work, I knew.

"The mate of the Saucy Jane brought it here," he went on. "It belonged to the captain. George
Markby, the name was; and that's poker-work on it, too. He sickened of a fever over at Rotterdam
and died at sea; and they sold off his things to send the money to his widow. I gave a sovereign
for it. There's a tray inside with a lock-up till. Keys all complete. Ought to fetch thirty-five
shillings."

"As much as that?" I said. I knew there must be a good deal more in it than appeared, but it's
no use hurrying Isaac. He likes to tell things his own way.

"I thought it might suit you to lock up your books and papers. That was all--till the day before
yesterday. Then a ginger-haired sailor came in. North countryman. Wanted a ditty-box, he said.
I told him we weren't marine outfitters, and he'd better try Barnard's, round the corner. He
said he didn't want the ordinary sort, but something out of the common; extra large size; brass-bound;
tray with a lock-up till. 'Mind if it was a trifle old?' I asked. 'Carved or cut about a bit?
You know how some chaps use their knives on them, just to pass the time.' He said he didn't
care for things that were hacked about, but he wouldn't object to a bit of poker-work on it.
I told him I'd look through the warehouse and let him know in the morning, and he went. Byles,
the dock policeman, was standing outside. I went and asked him who the chap was. He said he
was cook on the Anne Traylor, just come in, and he believed he'd done time. If he hadn't I'll
swear he ought to have, from the look of him.

"About half an hour afterward in walks an oldish chap with a stoop and a gray goat's beard.
He wanted a ditty-box, too; something extra large and old, and strong, and a tray with a lock-up
till in it. He was a fireman on the Anne Traylor, I found; a shifty sort of chap that couldn't
look you in the face. He offered to go to a couple of pounds for the right thing. I told him
I'd look through our stuff and let him know if we had one of the sort.

"Just as I was closing, a smart young fellow swaggered in. He was second mate of the Anne Traylor,
and he'd heard of the death of her old captain on the Saucy Jane, and that we'd bought some
of his effects, and he'd like to have a memento; just a matter of sentiment, he explained.
I asked him what form the sentiment took, and he said a ditty-box; and if we had the one that
belonged to the old man he'd give two pounds five for it. I put him off like the others.

"Two Swedish sailors came in after the shutters were up, while the door was still open. They
wanted a ditty-box of the identical description. I told them I'd look for it, same as I told
the rest. You always brought me up not to close too soon with a customer who was keen on a thing."

"Very good, Isaac," I said. "Very good! Go on!"

"In the evening I made inquiries at the 'Duke of Wellington,' where the dock policemen go,
and the two-penny-halfpenny money lenders and such; and old Mrs. Higgins, the landlady, knows
more about the crews that come here than anyone. Lots of them knew old Markby, it seemed; a
very respectable old chap and a favorite with his men, but a bit of a miser, and a trifle queer
in his ways. He boasted that he didn't believe in banks and such things, and he'd got his money
hidden where even his wife didn't know. And the conclusion I've come to is that those chaps
believe it's in the ditty-box, and they mean to have it."

"Ah!" I said. "We'll have something to say to that, Isaac! You told them we hadn't got it,
of course."

"Of course," he said; "and of course they didn't believe me! I had a rare bother with the ginger-haired
man yesterday morning, and had to send the boy for a policeman before he'd go. And in the afternoon
the Swedes tried to sneak through the shop into the warehouse, but I jumped out of the shop
parlor and hustled them off. I've put longer screws in the bars to the windows; but I'd be
easier if you'd let me sleep here."

Isaac always thought that he could look after me better than I could look after myself!

"I'm all right, Isaac," I said; "but we'll have a look at the box before you go. It might be
worth a bit more if it had a secret drawer, eh?"

When the shop was closed we went upstairs and laid the box on my bed, and turned it over and
tapped it, and put a lamp inside, and examined every inch. We couldn't find a trace of a secret
drawer, or anything scratched on it to say where the old captain had hidden his long stocking.
So I concluded that the talk was the usual nonsense, and I daresay I'd have sold it and thought
no more about it, if the goat's-beard man hadn't come in the first thing the next morning.
He didn't beat about the bush, but said he wanted Captain Markby's ditty-box that we'd bought,
and he'd give two pounds ten for it. I told him I wished I'd got it to sell, since he was so
generous, but ditty-boxes weren't in my line.

The others that Isaac had spoken of came in too. I was tempted to sell it to the mate for three
pounds, but I couldn't quite make up my mind, and told him to come again the next morning.
That very night the two Swedes broke into the shop. The police caught them. They're always
on the look-out round my place, knowing that it's a fiver to them on the quiet if they catch
anyone breaking in. The Swedes got three months apiece.

That made up my mind. I showed the mate an ordinary box when he called, and he went off grumbling
that it was nothing like the one he'd asked about, and I'd played the fool with him. I never
saw him again, or the Swedes either; but the old man and the ginger-headed chap were always
looking in the window. They seemed to have chummed up. I had an anonymous letter that I put
down to them--written in red ink that I suppose they meant me to take for blood. It warned
me against keeping "a ditty-box that others have a better claim to, and is like to cost you
dear." D-e-r-e they spelt it, and one t in ditty.

Two days later they called to ask if the box had come my way yet. "Yes," I said, "and I'm going
to keep it. It's got two blackguards three months, and it will get two others a good hiding
if they don't mind. Clear out, and don't come here again." They didn't, but we often saw them
hanging round, and when I went out one of them generally followed me. I didn't worry about
that, for I could have settled the two of them easily if I wasn't taken unaware. I was always
a bit obstinate, and I'd sooner have chopped the chest up for firewood than have been bullied
into letting them have it; but I was sorry that I hadn't taken the mate's offer, for Isaac
and I had measured it all over inside and out, and calculated that there wasn't space anywhere
for a secret drawer.

I'd had it about three months; and then a young girl, about twenty, came into the shop one
afternoon, when Isaac was at tea. She was a pale slip of a young thing, and her clothes looked
as if they'd been worn all through the summer, and it was autumn then; and she hesitated as
if she was half afraid of me.

"Well, little missie," I said. "What is it?" I spoke to her with the smooth side of my tongue
uppermost, as a big, rough chap generally does to a girl of that sort, if there's anything
decent about him.

"My father was Captain Markby," she said, and I liked the way she spoke. "He died at sea, and
they sold his things here. I want to find something of his, and I thought that perhaps you
might have bought it?"

I knew directly what she meant, but I looked very innocent.

"If it was anything in the curiosity line, I might have," I answered. "You see the sort of
things I deal in." I waved my hand round the place.

"No," she said. "It wasn't a curiosity. It was an oak chest with brass corners. I think they
call it a ditty-box."

"A ditty-box," I said. "They're too common to be curious. Was there anything special about it?"

"It had a tray in it, and he'd drawn a head on it with a red-hot iron; a girl's head. He meant
it for me; but I don't expect you'd recognize me by it. I hope not!" She smiled faintly.

"I hope not," I agreed, "judging from what I've seen of such figures." I laughed, and she laughed
a little, too. "And you want to buy it, if you can find it?"

"Ye-es," she said. "At least--I haven't very much money; but I would pay you as soon as I could,
if--I suppose you wouldn't be so kind--so very kind--as to agree to that?"

"Umph!" I said. "I don't generally give credit; but as it was your father's, I might stretch
a point for once if I should find that I have it."

"Oh, thank you!" she said with a flush. "It is a kindness that I have no right to expect. Thank
you!"

"I'll have a look round among my things," I promised. "I haven't bought such a box myself;
but my assistant might have; or I might be able to find it for you in some of the shops round
here. I'll see what I can do." I meant to let her have it, but I wanted to find out more about
it first.

"How kind you are!" she cried. "I--you see I want it very particularly, Mr. Levy."

"Being associated with your father," I said, "naturally you would. Perhaps if I don't come
across the ditty-box, I might find something else of his that would do, eh?"

"No-o," she said. "It wouldn't. You see we--my mother and I--aren't well off. We knew that
father had some money, but we couldn't find it, or learn anything about it; and we think it
must be in the box, or a paper telling us about it."

I shook my head.

"There's no paper in any box that I have," I assured her. "We always go through the things
that we buy very carefully."

"You wouldn't find it," she explained eagerly. "There was a secret place. He showed it to me
when I was a little girl. I don't expect he thought I would remember, but I did. You take off
the brass corners on top, and then the lower part of the lid drops out. The lid's in two pieces
and you could put papers--or bank notes--in between."

I couldn't help smiling.

"Aren't you rather foolish to tell me?" I suggested.

She looked at me appealingly.

"Am I?" she asked.

"No," I said. "As it happens, you aren't; but I wouldn't tell anyone else, if I were you. They
might think they'd like those bank notes for themselves. I might if--well, if you weren't a
good deal younger and more in need of them than I am."

"I think you are a very good and kind man, Mr. Levy," she said solemnly.

"I'm afraid not, little missie," I told her; "but there are some a good deal worse; and some
of them have an inkling of what may be in that box, if I'm not mistaken. They've been inquiring
after it."

"Oh!" She started. "There were two horrid men who seemed to be watching me when I came in here.
I half thought I remembered one of them: an old man with a stoop. I believe I must have seen
him aboard my father's ship. I felt rather nervous--because it's such a dark alley." She looked
anxiously at the door.

"It is a bit dark," I agreed. "Would you feel safer if I saw you to a main thoroughfare?"

"I should feel quite safe then," she declared, and she smiled like a child does. "I really
don't know how to thank you enough for your goodness to me."

I called Isaac to look after the shop, and put on my hat and walked off with her. She was a
bright little creature to talk to, and when she was excited she looked very pretty. I found
that she was going to walk all the way, so I said that I would see her right to her road. She
seemed pleased to have my company, and jabbered nineteen to the dozen. It was such a change
to have someone to talk to, she said, because they had moved and knew nobody here. She told
me that she tried to earn money by teaching music and by painting. I said that I was badly
in want of a few little sketches, and she promised to bring some for me to look at.

"I would ask you to accept them," she said, with a flush, "if we weren't so poor."

"If it weren't for that," I said, "I should ask you to have some tea before I leave you, without
fear that you would be too proud to accept. It would be a pleasure to me. Will you?" We were
just outside a good place, and I stopped.

"It is very kind of you," she said, "but I don't think--I suppose I am foolishly proud." She
laughed an uneasy laugh.

"You mustn't let your pride spoil my pleasure," I told her, and grinned at myself for talking
like a book. "You can repay me when you find your fortune, if you insist; but I hope you won't."

She looked up at me quickly.

"No," she said. "I couldn't treat your kindness like that. Thank you, Mr. Levy."

So we went in, and I ordered tea and chicken and cakes. The poor little thing was positively
hungry, I could see; and when she mentioned her mother the tears came into her eyes. I understood
what she was thinking, and I had some meat patties put up in a package. When I left her at
the corner of her road I put the package into her hands, and boarded a 'bus with a run before
she had time to object. She shook her head at me when I was on top of the 'bus; but when I
took off my hat she waved her hand, and laughed as if she was a great mind to cry. It's hard
for an old woman and a young girl when they're left like that.

I had the corners of that ditty-box off as soon as Isaac had gone for the night. The lid was
double, as she had said. Between the two boards I found a portrait of an elderly woman--her
mother, no doubt--and three photos of herself; two in short frocks and one with her hair in
a plait when she was about seventeen. She looked stouter and jollier then, poor girl. There
was one other thing: a half sheet of note-paper. "Memo in case of accident. Money up chimney
in best bedroom. Geo. Markby, sixth of April, 1897."

I started to change my clothes to go there and tell them; but just as I had taken off my waistcoat
I altered my mind. The money wouldn't be in the rooms where they lived then, but in their old
house; and that was probably occupied by someone else now, and even if the money was still
there she would not be able to get it. It was no use raising her hopes, just to disappoint
her. I would try to get the money before I spoke, I decided.

She came at eleven the next morning, and timidly produced a few little sketches, mostly copies
of things. I'd like to say that they were good, but I can't. It was just schoolgirl painting,
nothing else. She wanted to give me some, but I wouldn't hear of that. She had sold a few for
eighteenpence apiece, she said. I said that I wanted four to frame for ships' cabins, and I'd
give twelve-and-six for them, and that would leave me a fair margin. I was afraid to offer
more, for fear she would suspect me; and as it was she was dubious.

"You're sure you will get a profit?" she asked.

"You ask anyone round here about me," I said. "They'll soon tell you that I look out sharp
for that. They'll look very nice when they're framed; and I make a good bit out of the frames,
you see. Now about this ditty-box. I've got on the track of one that might turn out right;
but there's a difficulty that I'd like to put to you. Suppose that there's no money in it,
only a clue to where your father hid it. Wouldn't that be likely to be somewhere where you
can't get at it? On board his ship, for example? Or in your old house?

"If it's in the house," she said, "I could get in. At least it was empty a week ago. Mother
heard from an old neighbor. But perhaps it would be better to get someone else to go, and say
that they wanted to look at the house?" She glanced at me doubtfully.

"You mean me?" She nodded slowly. "You are afraid that I might keep some of it?"

She stared at me in sheer amazement.

"Why, of course not!" she cried. "I was only thinking that it was a long way to ask you to
go; and that I must not impose on your kindness."

"Give me the address," I said, "in case I should want it any time."

She gave me an address in Andeville. Then I changed the subject. I walked part of the way home
with her. Then I had my dinner and went off to Andeville.

It was about an hour by train. By the time that I had found the agent and got the key it was
growing dusk. I was some time arguing with him, because he wanted to send a man with me to
lock up afterward. "We've had tramps get in several times," he explained, "and they've done
a lot of damage; torn up the flooring and such senseless mischief." It occurred to me directly
that the tramps were some of the men who had come after the ditty-box.

I persuaded him at last that I'd lock up all right and he let me go alone. I soon spotted what
would be the best bedroom. I fumbled up the chimney and lit a match or two, and found a heavy
canvas bag and a smaller one that rustled like notes. I was just looking for the last time
when I heard soft steps behind me. I glanced round and saw two men before the match flickered
out. The light caught the face of the foremost. It was the old man with the goat's beard. Then
I was struck on the head and knocked senseless.

It was about six when I came to and lit another match and looked at my watch. The bags were
gone, of course. I never saw them again or the two men. It was as well for them I didn't!

It was no use telling the agent or anybody. I never thought about that, only what I was to
do about the girl and her mother. I didn't think very much about the mother, if you come to
that. It seemed to me that I'd made a mess of it and lost their money, and I couldn't bear
to think of the girl's disappointment. What upset me most was that I knew she'd believe every
word of my story, and never dream that I'd taken the money myself, as some people would. She
was such a trusting little thing, and--well, I may as well own up that I liked her. If I hadn't
been fifteen years older than she was, and felt sure that she'd never look at a Jew--and a
much rougher chap then than I am now--I should have had serious thoughts of courting her. And
so--well, I knew that a hundred pounds was what they hoped for; and it didn't make very much
odds to me. I took out the paper that night and put in twenty five-pound notes, and did it
up again. A bit of folly that you wouldn't have suspected me of, eh? Then you think me a bigger
fool than most people do! At the same time, it was only fair and honest. I'd had her money
and lost it, you see.

I was going to take the chest to their lodgings in a cab the next morning, but she called in
early to ask if I had found it. I had an unhappy sort of feeling when I saw her come smiling
into the shop, thinking that she wouldn't need to come any more. It's queer how a man feels
over a little slip of a girl when he's knocked about all over the world and known hundreds
of women and thought nothing of them!

I'd carried it down into this room, and I took her in and showed it. Her delight was pretty
to see. She fidgeted about at my elbow like a child while I was taking the corners off; and
when she saw the notes she danced and clapped her hands; and when I gave them to her she sat
down and hugged them and laughed and cried.

"If you knew how poor we've been!" she said, wiping her eyes. "How lonely and worried and miserable!
Your kindness has been the only nice thing ever since father died. Twenty times five! That's
a hundred. They're real notes aren't they? I haven't seen one for ages."

"They're real enough," I told her. "I'll give you gold for them, if you like."

"I'd rather have their very selves," she said with a laugh. She studied one carefully; and
suddenly she dropped them with a cry and sprang to her feet. Her face had gone white.

"Mr. Levy!" she cried. "Oh, Mr. Levy! You put them there!"

I told her a lie right out; and I'm not ashamed of it. I was a hard man of business, I said;
and a Jew; and she was a silly sentimental child, or she'd never take such an idea into her
head; and she needn't suppose I kept my shop for charity, and she'd know better when she was
older. She heard me out. Then she put her hand on my shoulder.

"Dear kind friend," she said, "father died in May this year. The note that I looked at was
dated in June!" And I stood and stared at her like a fool. I suppose I looked a bit cut up,
for she stroked my arm gently.

"You dear, good fellow!" she said. She seemed to have grown from a child into a woman in a
few minutes. "I can't take them, but it will help me to be a better girl, to have known someone
like you!"

"Like me!" I said, and laughed. "I'm just--just a rough, money-grubbing Jew. That's all I am."

She shook her head like mad.

"You may say what you like," she told me; "but you can't alter what I think. You're good--good--good!"

Then I told her just what had happened.

"So, you see, you owe me nothing," I wound up.

She wiped her eyes and took hold of me by the sleeve.

"I will tell you what I owe you," she said. "Food when I was hungry; kindness when I was wretched;
your time, your care--yes, and the risk of your life. If you had had your way you would have
given me all that money. You--Mr. Levy, you say that it is just a matter of business. What
profit did you expect to make?"

"I expected--to make you happy," I said; and she looked up at me suddenly; and I saw what I
saw. "Little girl!" I cried. "May I try? In another way."

I held out my arms, and she dropped into them.

"My profits!" I said.

"Oh!" she cried. "I hope so. I will try--try--try!"

Mr. Levy offered me a fresh cigar and took another himself.

"It's a class of profit that's difficult to estimate," he remarked. "I had a difficulty with
Isaac over the matter. You see he has 5 per cent. over the business that he introduces, but
that was only meant for small transactions, I argued. He argued that there were no profits
at all; not meaning any disrespect to her, but holding that there was no money in it; or, if
there was, it was a loss because I'd have to keep her, and nobody knew how a wife would turn
out. She held much the same, except that she was sure she was going to turn out good; but she
thought I ought to find some plan of doing something for Isaac. We settled it that way. He
wanted to get married, so I gave him a rise and let them have the rooms over the shop to live
in; and there they are now."

"And how do you reckon the profits yourself?" I asked.

"Well," he said "in these last eight years I've cleared forty thousand pounds, though you wouldn't
think it in this little shop. I reckon that I cleared a good bit more over that ditty-box.
Come round to my house one evening, and I'll introduce you to her."

IV

THE YELLOW CAT

An Idyll of the Summer

By ANNIE E.P. SEARING

THE minister of Blue Mountain Church, and the minister's wife, were enjoying their first autumn
fire, and the presence of the cat on the hearth between them.

"He came home this afternoon," the minister's wife was saying, "while I was picking those last
peppers in the garden, and he jumped on my shoulder and purred against my ear as unconcernedly
as if he'd only been for a stroll in the lower pasture, instead of gone for three months--the
little wretch!"

"It does seem extraordinary"--the minister unbent his long legs and recrossed them carefully,
in order to remove his foot from the way of the tawny back where it stretched out in blissful
elongation--"very extraordinary, that an animal could lead that sort of double life, disappearing
completely when summer comes and returning promptly with the fall. I daresay it's a reversion
to the old hunting instinct. No doubt we could find him if we knew how to trail him on the
mountains."

"The strangest thing about it is that this year and last he came back fat and sleek--always
before, you know, he has been so gaunt and starved looking in the fall." She leaned over and
stroked the cat under his chin; he purred deeply in response, and looked up into her eyes,
his own like wells of unfathomed speech. "I have an eerie feeling," she said, "that if he could
talk he'd have great things to tell."

The minister laughed, and puffed away at his corncob pipe. "Tales of the chase, my dear, of
hecatombs of field-mice and squirrels!"

But she shook her head. "Not this summer--that cat has spent these last two summers with human
beings who have treated him as a kind of fetich--just as we do!" As she rubbed his ear she
murmured regretfully: "To think of all you've heard and seen and done, and you can't tell us
one thing!"

The Yellow Cat's eyes narrowed to mere slits of black across two amber agates; then he shook
his ears free, yawned, and gave himself up to closed lids and dreams. If he could have told
it all, just as it happened, not one word of it could those good souls have comprehended--and
this was the way of it.

It was near the close of a June day when the cat made his entrance into that hidden life of
the summers from which his exits had been as sudden, though less dramatic. In the heart of
the hills, where a mountain torrent has fretted its way for miles through a rocky gorge, there
is a place where the cleft widens into a miniature valley, and the stream slips along quietly
between banks of moss before it plunges again on its riotous path down the mountain. Here the
charcoal-burners, half a century ago, had made a clearing, and left their dome-shaped stone
kiln to cover itself with the green velvet and lace of lichen and vine. The man who was stooping
over the water, cleaning trout for his supper, had found it so and made it his own one time
in his wandering quest for solitude. The kiln now boasted a chimney, a door, and one wide window
that looked away over the stream's next plunge, over other mountains and valleys to far horizons
of the world of men. This was the hermitage to which he brought his fagged-out nerves from
the cormorant city that feeds on the blood and brains of humans. Here through the brief truce
of summer he found time to fish and hunt enough for his daily wants, time to read, to write,
time to dream and to smoke his evening pipe, to think long thoughts, and more blessed than
all--to sleep! When autumn came he would go back with renewed life and a pile of manuscript
to feed to his hungry cormorant. He was chewing the cud of contentment as he bent to his fish
cleaning, when, glancing to one side where the fire, between stones, was awaiting his frying-pan,
he caught sight among the bushes of two gleaming eyes, and then the sleek back and lashing
tail of the Yellow Cat. The man, being a cat lover was versed in their ways, so for a time
he paid no attention, then began to talk softly.

"If you'd come out of that," he said, as he scraped the scales, "and not sit there watching
me like a Comanche Indian, I'd invite you to supper!"

Whether it was the tone of his voice or the smell of the fish that conquered, the tawny creature
was suddenly across the open with a rush and on the stooping shoulders. That was the beginning
of the companionship that lasted until fall. The next season brought the animal as unexpectedly,
and they took up the old relation where it had left off the previous summer. They trudged together
through miles of forest, sometimes the cat on the man's shoulder, but often making side excursions
on his own account and coming back with the proud burden of bird or tiny beast. Together they
watched the days decline in red and gold glory from the ledge where the stream drops over the
next height, or when it rained, companioned each other by the hearth in the hut. There was
between them that satisfying and intimate communion of inarticulate speech only possible between
man and beast.

There came a day when the man sat hour after hour over his writing, letting the hills call
in vain. The cat slept himself out, and when paws in the ink and tracks over the paper proved
of no avail, he jumped down and marched himself haughtily off through the door and across the
clearing to the forest, tail in air. Late that afternoon the man was arrested midway of a thought
rounding into phrase by the sudden darkness. There was a fierce rush of wind, as if some giant
had sighed and roused himself. The door of the hut slammed shut and the blast from the window
scattered the papers about the floor. As he went to pull down the sash the cat sprang in, shaking
from his feet the drops of rain already slanting in a white sheet across the little valley.
At the same moment there was a "halloo" outside, and a woman burst open the door, turning quickly
to shut out behind her the onrush of the shower and the biting cold of the wind. She stood
shaking the drops from her hair, and then she looked into the astonished face of the man and
laughed.

She was as slim and straight as a young poplar, clad in white shirt-waist and khaki Turkish
trousers with gaiters laced to the knee. Her hair was blown about in a red-gold snarl, and
her eyes looked out as unabashed as a boy's. The two stared at each other for a time in silence,
and finally it was the woman who spoke first.

"This isn't exactly what I call a warm welcome--not just what the cat led me to expect! It
was really the cat who brought me--I met him over on Slide Mountain--he fled and I pursued,
and now here we are!"

She made a hasty survey of the hut, and then of its owner, putting her head on one side as
she looked about her with a quick, bird-like movement, he still staring in stupefaction.

"Of course you detest having me here, but you won't put me out in the rain, again, will you?"

At once he was his courteous self. With the same motion he dumped the astonished cat from the
cushioned chair by the writing table, and drew it forward to the fire. Then he threw on a fresh
stick of pine that flared up in a bright blaze, and with deferring gentleness took the sweater
that hung from her shoulders and hung it to dry over a section of tree-trunk that served as
a chimney seat.

"You are as welcome to my hut as any princess to her palace," he smiled on her, "indeed, it
is yours while you choose to stay in it!"

"Don't you think," she made reply, as he drew another chair up opposite to her, "that under
the circumstances we might dispense with fine speeches? It is hardly, I suppose, what one would
call a usual situation, is it?"

He looked at her as she stretched her small feet comfortably to the blaze, her face quite unconcerned.

"No," he acquiesced, "it certainly is not usual--or I should hate it--the 'usual' is what I
fly from!"

She threw back her head, clasping her hands behind it as she laughed. She seemed to luxuriate
as frankly in the heat and the dryness as the cat between them.

"And I"--she turned the comprehension of her eyes upon him--"I cross the ocean every year in
the same flight!"

The storm drove leaves and flying branches against the window, while they sat, for what seemed
a long time, in contented silence. He found himself as openly absorbing her charm as if she
had been a tree or a mountain sunset, while she was making further tours of inspection with
her eyes about the room.

"It is entirely adorable," she smiled at him, "but it piques my curiosity!'

"Ask all the questions you wish--no secrets here."

"Then what, if you please, is the object I see swung aloft there in the dome?"

"My canvas hammock which I lower at night to climb into and go to bed, and pull up in the daytime
to clear the decks."

"And the big earthen pot in the fireplace--it has gruesome suggestions of the 'Forty Thieves!'"

"Only a sort of perpetual hot-water tank. The fire never quite goes out on this domestic hearth,
and proves a very acceptable companion at this high altitude. There is always the kettle on
the crane, as you see it there, but limitless hot water is the fine art of housekeeping--but,
perhaps you don't know the joy there is to be found in the fine art of housekeeping?"

"No, I do not," her eyes took on a whimsical expression, "but I'd like to learn--anything in
the way of a new joy! In the way of small joys I am already quite a connoisseur, indeed I might
call myself a collector in that line--of bibelot editions, you understand, for thus far I seem
to have been unable to acquire any of the larger specimens! Would you be willing to take me
on as a pupil in housekeeping?"

"It would add to my employment a crowning joy--not a bibelot!"

"Pinchbeck fine speeches again," she shrugged. "Do you stop here all the long summer quite alone?"

"All the 'short summer,'" he corrected, "save for the society of the cat, who dropped down
last year from nowhere. He must have approved of the accommodations, for he has chosen me,
you see, a second time for a summer resort."

"Yes--I think he was trying to protest about you being his exclusive find, when I invited myself
to follow him down the mountain--leading and eluding are so much alike, one is often mistaken,
is it not so?"

She was sitting forward now, chin in hands, elbows on her knees, gazing into the flames where
a red banner waved above the back log. When she turned to him again the westering sun had broken
through the clouds and was sending a flare of rosy light in at the window. Studying her face
more fully, he saw that she was years--fully ten years--older than he had supposed. The boyish
grace that sat so lightly was after all the audacious ease of a woman of the world, sure of
herself.

"I, too, am living the hermit life for the summer. I am the happy possessor of a throat that
demands an annual mountain-cure. Switzerland with its perpetual spectacular note gets on my
nerves, so last year we found this region--I and my two faithful old servitors. Do you know
the abandoned tannery in the West Branch Clove? That has been fitted up for our use, and there
we live the simple life as I am able to attain it--but you have so far outdone me that you
have filled my soul with discontent!"

"Alas," said the man, "you have served me the very same trick! I could almost wish--"

"That I had not come!"

"Say, rather, that you would come again!"

She stood up and reached for her sweater, waiting for him to open the door. The round of the
little valley was a glittering green bowl filled with pink cloud scuds. They stepped out into
a jubilant world washed clean and freshly smiling. She put out her hand in good-bye.

"I almost think I shall come again! If you were a person with whom one could be solitary--who
knows!"

When she appeared the next time she found him by the noise of his chopping. They climbed to
the top of the moss-covered boulder that hangs poised over the ledge where the stream leaps
into the abyss. Below them the hills rolled in an infinite recession of leaf-clad peaks to
the sky line, where they melted to a blur of bluish-green mist.

"Oh, these mountains of America!" she cried, "their greenness is a thing of dreams to us who
know only bare icy and alps!"

"Far lovelier," he said, "to look down upon than to look up to, I think. To be a part of the
height comes pretty near to being happy, for the moment."

She turned from the view to study her companion. The lines in the corners of his kind, tired
eyes, the lean, strong figure, hair graying about the temples. He grew a little impatient under
it before she spoke.

"Do you know," she said slowly, "I am going to like you! To like you immensely--and to trust you!"

"Thank you, I shall try to be worthy"--even his derision was gentle--"I seem to remember having
been trusted before by members of your sex--even liked a little, though not perhaps 'immensely'!
At any rate this certainly promises to be an experience quite by itself!"

"Quite by itself," she echoed.

"Wouldn't it be as well for you to know my name, say, as a beginning?"

"No," she nodded, "that's just what I don't want! I only want to know you. Names are extraneous
things--tags, labels--let us waive them. If I tell you how I feel about this meeting of ours
will you try to understand me?"

The answer was less in words than in the assent of his honest gray eyes.

"I have been surfeited all my life," she went on, "with love--I want no more of it! The one
thing I do want, more than anything else, is a man friend. I have thought a great deal about
such a friendship--the give and take on equal terms, the sexless companionship of mind--what
it could be like!"

He brushed the twigs from the lichens between them and made no answer.

"Fate--call the power what you will"--she met the disclaimer that puckered the corners of his
mouth--"fate brought us together. It was the response to my longing for such a friendship!"

"It was the Yellow Cat!"

"The Yellow Cat plus fate! While I sat there by your fire I recognized you for that friend!"

Far below over the tree tops cloud shadows and sunlight were playing some wonderful game of
follow-my-leader; a hawk hung poised on tilting wings; and on the veil of mist that was the
spirit of the brook where it cast itself from the ledge curved the arch of a rainbow. The man
pointed to the augury.

"You might try me," he said, and they shook hands on the compact, laughing half shamefacedly
at their own solemnity.

"As woman to woman," he offered.

"Let it be rather as man to man," she shrugged.

"As you like--as women we should have to begin by explaining ourselves."

"Precisely, and men companion each other on impersonal grounds."

"Then it is a man's friendship?"

"Better still," she mused, "we'll pattern it after the ideals of the disembodied! We'll make
this summer, you and I together, a gem from the heart of life--I will have it so!"

So it came about that like two children they played together, worked, walked, or read and talked
by the open fire when cold storms came. Every morning she came over the wood-road that led
by winding ways from her valley, and at sunset she went back over the trail alone. He might
go as far as the outlook half way over the mountain where the path begins to go down, but no
farther; as for any fear, she seemed to know nothing of its workings, and the revolver she
wore in a case that hung from her belt was a mere convention.

One morning she came with eyes dancing--it was to be an especial day--a fête--and the gods
had smiled on her planning and given them perfect weather. Never such sunshine, such crystal
air, such high-hung clouds! Breakfast over, they hurried about the miniature housework, and
packed the kit for a long day's tramp. Then they started forth, the cat following, tail aloft.
Beyond a dim peak, where the clove opens southward, by the side of a tiny lake they lunched
and took their noonday rest. She watched the smoke curl up from his pipe where he lay at peace
with the scheme of things.

"Do you know, Man, dear," she said, "I am glad I don't in the least guess who you are! I have
no doubt you write the most delightful stories in the world--but never put me in one, please!"

He took the pipe out of his mouth and looked at her long before he replied.

"Woman, dear," he said, "I have put you in a place--your own place--and it is not in my novels!"

She scrambled to her feet laughing.

"It's very well to make stories, but it is really more diverting to live them! Come, I must
lead you now with your eyes shut tight to my surprise!"

So hand in hand they went along a smooth green wood-road until she stopped him.

"Look," she cried, "now look!"

Straight away till the road narrowed to a point of light against the sky where the mountain
dipped down, banks of mountain laurel rose on either side in giant hedges of rose and white,
while high above them waved the elms and beeches of the forest.

"It is the gardening of the gods!"

"It is my own treasure-trove! I found it last year and I have been waiting to bring you to
it on my fête--what you call birthday! And now wish me some beautiful thing--it may come true!
There is a superstition in my country--but I shall not tell you--unless the wish comes true!"

He broke off a spray of the waxen buds and crowned her solemnly where she stood.

"I have already wished for you--the most beautiful thing in the world!"

She shook her head, sorrowful. "Man, dear, the only thing in all the world I still want is
the impossible!"

"Only the impossible is worth while--and I have wished!"

She shook her head again, laughing a little ruefully. "It could not arrive--my impossible--and
yet you almost tempt me to hope!"

"Anything--everything may arrive! You once thought that such a friendship as this of ours could
not, and lo, we have achieved it!"

"I wonder"--her eyes seemed fixed on some far prospect, a world beyond the flowery way--"I
wonder if we have! And I wonder why you have never made a guess about my world when you have
at least let me get a peep now and then into yours?"

"I don't care a rap about your 'world,'" he smiled into her eyes, "while I have you!"

"No curiosity about my--my profession?"

"Not a bit--though it was clear enough from the first that it was the stage!"

She made an odd little outcry at his powers of divination.

"Then I must look it--before the footlights from my birth! Since you are so clever, Mr. Man,
will you also be merciful when you come to weigh me in those scales you try to hide beneath
the garment of your kindness? Think, when you judge me, what it is for a woman never to be
herself--always to have to play a part!"

He reached and took her hand suddenly, drawing her to him with a movement that was almost rough.

"This is no play acting--this is real! No footlights--no audience--only you and me in all this
world!"

But she drew away, insistently aloof. She would have none of his caresses.

"This, too," she said, as she moved apart and stood waiting for him to follow, "is a part of
the play--I do not deceive myself! When I go back to my world--my trade, I shall remember this
little time that you and I have snatched from the grudging grasp of life as an act--a scene
only! It's a perfect pastoral, Man, dear, but unreal--absurdly unreal--and we know it ourselves
while we play the game!"

Down through the flower-bordered vista the cat went stalking his prey, his sinuous body a tawny
streak winding along the green path. These trivial humans, with their subtle attractions and
compunctions, were as though they never had been when the chase was on--the real business and
purpose of life!

For the rest of the time they were together they avoided the personal. Each felt the threat
in the air and tacitly averted it. For that one perfect day there should be no past, no future,
nothing but the golden present.

Swinging in his breeze-rocked hammock between door and window the man lay awake through the
long watches of the night, thinking, thinking, while his heart sang. Toward dawn he fell into
a deep sleep from which he was only awakened by the cat springing up to lick his face in reminder
of breakfast.

It was when he came back from his plunge in the pool that he first noticed a paper pinned to
his door-post. Within its folds his doom was penned!

"Even you, dear Man, could not wish me the impossible! That superstition of my country is that
to come true it must be the first wish of your fête day--and by one who loves you! Alas, my
old servant had already wished--that he might get me started for home to-day! Clever Friedrich--for
he had also packed! When you read this I shall be far on my way. You could never find me though
you searched the earth--but you will never try! It is well as it is, for you see--it was not
friendship after all!"

       *        *       *       *       *

And yet there was a sequel. During the following year there dropped to the man in his hard-pressed
literary life, one of those errant plums from the political tree that now and then find their
way to the right basket. He was named for an excellent diplomatic post. His friends congratulated
him and talked a good deal about "material" and opportunities for "unique local color;" his
wife chattered unceasingly about gowns and social details, while he armed himself, with the
listless reticence that was become habit, to face new responsibilities and rather flavorless
experiences. He had so withdrawn himself of late to the inner creative life that he moved in
a kind of phantasmagoria of outer unrealities. It was the nearest to a comfortable adjustment
for the mis-mating of such a marriage as his, but it was not the best of preparations for the
discharge of public duties, and he walked toward his new future with reluctant feet, abstractedly.
In some such mood as this, his mind bent on a problem of arrangement of fiction puppets, seeing
"men as trees walking," he found himself one day making his bows at a court function. Along
the line of royal highnesses and grand duchesses with his wife he moved, himself a string-pulled
puppet, until--but who, in heaven's name is this?

For one mad moment, as he looked into her eyes, he thought the tightened cord he sometimes
felt tugging at his tired brain had snapped, and the images of sight and memory gone hopelessly
confused. She stood near the end of the line with the princesses of secondary rank, and the
jewels in her hair were not more scintillant than her eyes as he bent over her hand. She went
a little pale, but she greeted him bravely, and when they found themselves unobserved for a
moment she spoke to him in her soft, careful English:

"You recognized me, you remember, for a play actor, and now you are come from the world's end
to see me perform on my tiny stage! Alas, dear critic, since my last excursion, I am no longer
letter perfect in my part!"

They met but once again. It was in the crush of guests in the great hall where her old Prince,
in the splendor of his decoration-covered coat, was waiting to hand her to her carriage. There
was a brief time in which to snatch the doubtful sweetness of a few hurried words. She was
leaving in the early morning for the petty Balkan province where her husband held a miniature
sway, over a handful of half-savage subjects. Hardly more than a renewal of greeting and a
farewell, and she was gone!

As the old Prince wrapped her more carefully in her furs, and the carriage rolled away in the
darkness, he spoke to her, somewhat puzzled:

"I should be sorry to think the American Ambassador has been taking too much wine--as you well
know, my knowledge of the barbarous English tongue is but limited, and yet--I thought, as I
joined you, he was talking some farrago of nonsense about a Yellow Cat!"

       *        *       *       *       *

That year the Yellow Cat came home lean and gaunt, a chastened, humble creature, as one who
has failed in a long quest, and is glad to stretch his weary length before the hearth and reap
the neglected benefits of the domestic life.

"It is really very odd" said the minister, quite as if he were saying something he had never
thought of saying before, "where that cat goes in the summer!"

"Isn't it?" responded the minister's wife--just as she always did. "It fires the imagination!
He walks off some fine morning and completely shuts the door on our life here--as if he gave
us notice not to pry into his movements. But this time"--she was leaning to stroke the tawny
sides with a pitying touch--"this time you may be sure something very sad and disappointing
happened to him--something in that other life went quite wrong! How I wish we could understand
what it was!"

V

A COCK AND POLICEMAN

A Tale of Rural England

By RALPH KAYE ASSHETON

IT HAPPENED up in Lancashire, and the truth can be vouched for by at least half a hundred spectators.
It fell in this wise: Bob O' Tims owned a game-cock which was the envy of the whole street
for lustre of coloring and soundness of wind. Its owner was almost unduly proud of his possession,
and would watch it admiringly as it stalked majestically about among its family of hens.

"There's a cock for you!" he would say, with a little wave of his pipe. "There's not many cocks
like that one. The king himself has got nothing like it down at Windsor Castle."

Now, Jimmy Taylor had always been a rival of Bob O' Tims's. Jimmy's grandfather had fought
at the Battle of Waterloo. This gave him great prestige, and it was almost universally believed,
in Chellowdene, that the preëminence of the British Empire was mainly due to the battle-zeal
of Jimmy's ancestry. But whenever Jimmy talked about his grandfather, Bob skilfully turned
the conversation to his game-cock. This made Jimmy testy, and one day he told Bob, in contemptuous
tones, that "he'd be even wi' him yet, in the matter o' game-cocks, as well as everything else."

That was one Monday evening, and the following Wednesday Bob O' Tims's cock disappeared. When
Bob discovered his loss, his face went quite pale with anger. Without a word, he flung on his
cap and set off for Jimmy Taylor's cottage.

When he reached it, he went still whiter. For Jimmy was sitting at the door, and up and down
the yard in front of him strutted a magnificent game-cock.

Bob O' Tims stretched out his forefinger, pointed at the cock, and with a stubborn look forming
about his mouth and jaw, observed:

"Yon's mine."

"It isn't," responded Jimmy. "It's mine."

"I tell thee, yon's mine. Yo've prigged it."

"It's mine! I bought it at th' fair."

"Thee never bought yon cock at any fair. It's mine, I tell thee."

Words grew high between the disputants, as the cock, in all its bronze and golden splendor,
marched up and down the yard, until the argument between the two men terminated in a quarrel
so violent that half-a-dozen neighbors came in to see what was the matter. It ended in Bob
O' Tims insisting that he would take the matter into court. He was as good as his word, and
the next time that the bench met, Bob O' Tims summoned Jimmy Taylor on a charge of having stolen
his game-cock.

The magistrates listened to the witnesses on either side. Half-a-dozen people were ready to
swear that the cock belonged to Bob. But Jimmy brought up a couple of witnesses to testify
that they had seen him buy a similar animal at Turton Fair. The cock was then brought into
court. It clucked and choked indignantly, and the partisans of Bob and Jimmy swore against
each other as hard as ever they could. The bench appeared perplexed; and it was owing to their
inability to come to any decision that the magistrate's clerk made his famous suggestion.

"The case appears to me impossible to prove as it stands, your worships," he said to the bench.
"I would suggest, if I may be allowed, that you direct an officer of the court to take the
cock to some spot at an equal distance between the houses of the plaintiff and of the defendant.
If he is there placed upon the ground, and left to his own devices, he is pretty sure to make
his way straight home."

The magistrates accepted the suggestion of the clerk, and gave judgment accordingly. A policeman
was ordered to carry out their instructions. Now, this officer was young and raw, and had only
recently been enrolled in the constabulary. He was a fat, rosy man, with an air of self-importance.
He set out from the court with the cock under his arm. An excited crowd streamed after the
policeman, who stalked on with no little pomposity. When he reached the common, which lay between
the houses of the rival claimants, he stood still for a minute or two, grasping the cock and
looking judiciously from one side of the broken land to the other.

The crowd eagerly commenced to give information.

"You're a bit nearer Bob O' Tims's than you are to Jimmy's!" cried one.

"Nay! Nay!" interposed another spectator, who was a partisan of Bob O' Tims. "There's a corner
to turn afore you get to Bob's. It's not fair, not to make allowance for that."

"Stand back!" cried the policeman majestically--"Stand back, every man of you. The critter
will be too much put about to go anywhere if you don't keep still tongues in your heads."

The officer still stood, with his legs wide apart, turning his head slowly from side to side.
Once he made a pace in the direction of Jimmy Taylor's; then, changing his mind, he took a
couple of steps toward Bob O' Tims's. Finally, he decided that he had fixed upon the exact
locality commanded by the law, and with a magisterial air, he again waved back the crowd and
deposited the cock upon the ground in front of him.

Everybody held their breath. The first thing that the cock did was to shake himself until he
resembled nothing so much as a living mop. Then he began to smooth his feathers down again.
Then he stretched his neck, flapped his wings and crowed. Finally, with a blink of his bright
eyes, which almost appeared like a wink to the hushed and expectant crowd, he made two solemn
steps with his slender legs in the direction of Jimmy Taylor's cottage.

"He's going to Jimmy's!" exclaimed the crowd with one voice.

"Can't you all be quiet for a moment or two," interposed the policeman, indignantly. "I tell
you, if you don't keep still, you'll upset the critter's mind, and make the magistrates' decision
just good for nothing."

The crowd appeared ashamed and relapsed once more into silence.

The policeman stood erect and tall, a few paces in front of them, watching the cock with great
solemnity. It was standing still now, jerking its neck a little. Then it looked round, and,
retracing its paces, began stepping slowly off in the opposite direction.

"It's going to Bob's!" cried the crowd.

But the cock was doing no such thing; it paused again, scratching in an imaginary dust-heap,
and then, with a loud crow, stretched its wings and flew up into a small tree.

This was disconcerting. The policeman turned with anger upon the crowd.

"I told you you were not giving the critter a chance!" he exclaimed. "You'd best be off home.
Come, move on! Move on!"

The crowd retreated, but it had no intention of going home. Some of those less interested strolled
away, but the partisans of Bob and Jimmy remained at a little distance, eagerly watching to
see what would happen next.

The cock, after jerking his head round several times, settled down comfortably among his feathers,
and went to sleep in the tree.

This was altogether beyond the expectancy of the policeman. Not knowing what else to do, he
sat down on a broken bit of fence under the tree and waited.

The day advanced. The cock slept on and the policeman began to doze. Now and then he awoke
with a start, and looked up at the obstinate biped above his head. Presently the man got down
from the fence and shook himself.

The partisans of Bob and Jimmy still remained at a discreet distance, watching the progress
of events. The policeman stood still for a few moments, staring at the cock; then he approached
the small, stumpy tree and clapped his hands vigorously.

The cock woke up, gurgled, and went to sleep again.

The policeman clapped his hands a second time, and then with shrill indignation the creature
flew down from the tree, and set off in the direction of the distant moors.

The proceedings promptly assumed the aspect of a hunt. The cock ran along with outstretched
wings and neck, and the policeman and the crowd ran after it. At last it reached a small cottage,
belonging to a widow of the name of Gammer. Exerting a final effort, it flew up toward her
open window and ensconced itself on the top of the good woman's tester-bed.

Now Mrs. Gammer was a woman of character. She heard the noise outside; and when the breathless
policeman arrived at the door of her kitchen, she was wiping the soapsuds off her plump red
arms, ready for any dispute or fray. She stood with her arms held akimbo, as the man in blue
explained his errand. When he had finished his recital she looked at him defiantly.

"And I should like to know what you call yourself, policeman or no policeman, to be chasing
a poor harmless critter across 'em blazing commons on a day like this! You want to go and poke
him down from my tester-bed, do you? Well, you can just go back and tell the magistrates as
Mrs. Gammer's got him, and if they want him they must come for him themselves."

This was direct defiance of the law, and the policeman commenced a remonstrance. His remarks
were, however, cut short by Mrs. Gammer.

"I have always said as magistrates was as ignorant as babies, and I only wish that they was
as harmless," she persisted, in open contempt of the government of her country. "You can go
back, and tell 'em as Mrs. Gammer says so. My house is my house, magistrate or no magistrate,
and I won't have any policeman messing about on the top of my tester-bed."

The policeman was not certain whether the authority which had been entrusted to him in the
matter would justify his making a deliberate prisoner of Mrs. Gammer. And, as she showed every
sign of resorting to violence, should he attempt to pass the door, which she barred with her
stout figure, he decided upon beating a retreat. He went outside again and reasserted his shattered
dignity by once more driving away the crowd; then, not knowing what else to do, he returned
to the police station and reported the matter to the chief constable.

The chief laughed, and so did everybody else who heard the story. The policeman was directed
to return to Mrs. Gammer's cottage later in the day, and serve her with an order requiring
her to give up the cock immediately. But when he handed Mrs. Gammer the official paper, she
laughed in his face.

"You can look round the house for the cock now if you like," she said contemptuously, slapping
down the order upon the table, "and you can see if you can find him."

"Is he still on the top of your tester-bed?" demanded the policeman.

"Go and look," responded Mrs. Gammer, with a snort. "You can take the turk's-head brush and
brush him down!"

So, armed with the turk's-head brush, the policeman ascended Mrs. Gammer's small, steep staircase.
When he reached her bedroom, he poked into every cranny and corner with the handle of his brush.
But no cock was to be found.

He descended the stairs, and stood again in the little kitchen. A savory smell of cooking arose
from a stew-pan on the fire.

"Where's the critter gone to?" he demanded.

"How should I know?" replied Mrs. Gammer testily.

The policeman, still standing in the kitchen, wished that Mrs. Gammer would give him an invitation
to supper. The widow glanced up sharply at him and saw what was in his mind.

"You'd like some supper, I make no doubt, after your wild-goose chase," she said. "Sit down
at t' table and take a bit o' stew."

The policeman seated himself with alacrity. The stew which Mrs. Gammer placed before him consisted
of a mixture of barley, onions and some white meat. He ate a hearty supper, and when he stood
up he drew his hands across his mouth.

"Thank you kindly," he said. "I must be off now, and see where that cock has gone to."

Then it was that Mrs. Gammer gave a short and derisive laugh. She began to pile up the empty
plates and to put the spoons and forks in the basin by the sink.

"If you go a-chasing of that cock until you are black and blue in the face," she said, "you'll
never find him. And the reason why, is that you have just helped to eat him up."

"I have eat him up!" he gasped.

"Aye," responded Mrs. Gammer, with brevity. "I made him into soup!"

The policeman remained open-mouthed, staring at the impenitent widow.

"You'd no business ever to do such a thing," he said. "The cock belonged to the Law."

"I care nowt for your Law," retorted Mrs. Gammer. "Anyway you've helped to eat him!"

A vague sense of cannibalism was haunting the policeman's mind; he felt almost as dismayed
as if he had made a hearty supper off the magistrate's clerk himself.

"You're a very wicked woman," he said to Mrs. Gammer. "And--and----"

He broke off, entirely nonplussed by the situation in which he found himself. Mrs. Gammer continued
to wash up the spoons and forks with utter indifference to his consternation.

"The cock's eat up, and there's an end of it," she said. "You'd best go and tell the magistrates
all about it."

Sheepish and disconcerted, the policeman slunk home. The next morning the chief asked him if
he had served the order on Mrs. Gammer.

"I--served it," said he, scratching his head.

"And did you get the bird given up?" demanded his superior officer.

"No, I can't say as I did," replied the policeman.

"Was it still on the top of the tester-bed?" pursued his awkward questioner.

"No. It was not on the tester-bed," replied the policeman.

"Then where was it?" insisted the chief.

For several seconds the policeman was silent, then he told a lie.

"I canna say," he answered, "it war gone."

The chief shrugged his shoulders, and sent the man about the business of the day. The next
time that the magistrates met, the question of Bob O' Tims's cock was again brought into court.
The magistrate's clerk demanded if the case were settled.

To the great relief of the policeman, who was waiting in attendance, Bob O' Tims spoke up from
the spot where he stood.

"Jim hadna stolen my cock after all, sir," he said, "for it came home the next morning."

"Then what happened to the cock that was brought into court on Tuesday?" demanded the magistrate's
clerk. But nobody seemed to know.

Only, people used to wonder why Widow Gammer almost always gave a peculiar kind of snort when
she spoke of Police Constable X, and why that worthy officer avoided her cottage ever after,
and invariably turned down a side street if he saw the widow within speaking distance of him.

VI

PRISONERS IN THE TOWER

An Episode of Travel

By LUCY COPINGER

"IN THE words of Macaulay this, ladies and gentleman, is the saddest spot on earth." The white-haired
old Tower guard in charge of the little chapel of Saint Peter waved his hand impressively toward
the open door. "Through that door"--the heads of the American tourists who were doing the Tower
all turned in unison--"you may see the block upon which many a royal head has rested, and beneath
these very stones lie buried two dukes between two queens--Dukes of Northumberland and of Somerset,
with the Queens Anne Boleyn and Katherine Howard--all beheaded."

