
It was his fondness for niceties of every kind which shortened his days, and eased his parents
of their apprehensions for a son who, if he had lived, would have been a continual plague and
disgrace to them; for on the day when he entered into the fourteenth year of his age, being
indulged rather more than common, he devoured such a quantity of the richest tarts, that his
stomach could not digest them; so that he soon fell into a violent fever, which in a few days
hurried his unworthy soul out of the body of a young country 'squire (for such he would have
been) into the carcass of this hairy and awkward young monster which now stands before you.
He so well understands what I have been saying, and is so much vexed at the character I have
given of him, which he knows to be a very just one, that if you will promise to quit the room
and leave him to himself he will pleasure you with one of his best dances before you go."--Accordingly
after thanking the Bramin for the account he had given us, we all promised to leave Mr. Bruin
to his own meditation; upon which, after taking two or three sulkey rounds, the young savage
reared himself upon his buttocks, and shuffled a saraband which lasted a few minutes. When
he had finished his dance he swaggered down again upon his fore paws, and by a sullen growl
seemed to claim the performance of our promise, an indulgence which we very readily granted him.

CHAP. VIII.

Of the astonishing Transmigration of Miss ABIGAIL EVILTONGUE into the Body of a Serpent.

In the next apartment we saw a large wire cage, in which the Bramin told us he had a bird which
was something different from the common ones; and so indeed it was, for upon my eldest daughter's
going near to see it, she was startled by a large serpent which darted itself against the wires,
and hissed and sissed as if it would have stung us all to death in an instant. It was however,
a very beautiful creature of the kind, and as the sun then shone very bright, the golden and
silver streaks upon its azure skin made a very splendid appearance. My youngest son wanting
to go and stroke it;--"No, my pretty boy, said the good Bramin; if you have any value for yourself,
you will always keep out of the reach of such creatures as these, and of all such who resemble
the young lady by whose soul this serpent is animated. I say young lady, because the serpent
before you is indeed animated by the soul of the late Miss Abigail Eviltongue. The family of
the Eviltongue, (I dare say you have heard of them) is extremely numerous; for there are some,
and indeed too many of them, in every town, and, I believe in every village in the country.
Miss Abigail, the young lady I am speaking of, had as just a title to the name, and supported
the character of her family with as much exactness as any one amongst them; for her tongue
was remarkably active, and spared the reputation neither of friend nor foe. She was, it is
true, a very handsome girl, and the charms of her person would have procured her many admirers
if they had not been disgraced by her natural propensity to slander and defamation. In her
very infancy, as soon as she could speak to be understood, she began with telling fibs of the
servants, and very frequently of her brothers and sisters; for which, you may be certain, they
all despised her very heartily. But as she was too much encouraged in this hateful practice
by her parents, instead of being severely flogged for it, as she ought to have been, she set
the frowns and sneers of the others at open defiance; and the more they resented her little
malice the more eager she was to gratify it by loading them with all the falsehoods she was
capable of inventing.