Note by the American Publisher.--Soon after Mr. Barker's return from England, he resumed his
lecturing in various towns and cities in the United States, giving great satisfaction, by his
able addresses, to large and intelligent audiences. He still labors occasionally in the same
pursuit, though at present he is residing on his farm at Omaha City, in the Territory of Nebraska.
Much might be said in praise of his efforts to promote Liberalism in this country; but his
greatest triumph, as we consider it, was his public debate with the Rev. Dr. Berg of Philadelphia.
This took place on the 9th of January, 1854, and continued no less than eight evenings. The
question was on "the origin, authority, and tendency of the Bible"--Dr. Berg affirming, and
Mr. Barker opposing. This famous discussion was attended by thousands, and was probably the
greatest affair of the kind that ever occurred. The speeches on both sides were published,
making a large pamphlet of 190 pages. Of course, each of the debaters was victorious, in the
opinion of his friends; but the trick played by the Christian party, in the closing scene,
showed a determination on their part to claim the victory whether or no! For, as soon as Dr.
Berg (who made the last speech) had finished, one of his friends took the platform, and, while
the audience were separating, read some resolutions in favor of the Doctor and the Bible. "Less
than one fourth of the audience," says the Philadelphia Register, "voted for them. The more
serious part of the audience did not vote at all. The great majority seemed to take the thing
as a farce. The result of the vote made a good many long faces on the stage and front seats.
A short silence ensued, followed by a burst of obstreporous laughter, and cries of 'the Infidels
have it!' And so ended the most remarkable debate ever held in America."

The following correct and candid report of the above discussion, appeared at the time in the
columns of the Pennsylvania Freeman:--

The Bible Discussion.--The discussion on the authority of the Bible, at Concert Hall, between
Rev. J. F. Berg, of this city and Joseph Barker, of Ohio, closed on Thursday evening last,
after a continuance of eight evenings. During the whole time, the vast hall was crowded with
an eager multitude--numbering from 2000 to 2500 persons--each paying an admittance of 12 1-2
cents every evening, and on some evenings it is said that hundreds went away, unable to approach
the door; nor did the interest appear to flag among the hearers to the last.

Of the merits of the question or the argument, it does not come within the scope of a strictly
anti-slavery paper to speak, but we cannot forbear to notice the contrast in the manner and
bearing of the two debaters, and the two parties among the audience.

Mr. Barker, in giving an account of the origin of the discussion, says:--

"In December, [1853] in compliance with a request from the Sunday Institute, I began a course
of lectures in Philadelphia, on the origin, authority and influence of the Scriptures.

"When I sent the Sunday Institute a programme of my lectures, I authorised the Secretary to
announce, through the papers, that I was willing to meet any clergyman, of good standing in
any of the leading churches, in public discussion on the Bible question."

[The Rev. Mr. McCalla, a Presbyterian clergyman, accepted the offer, and arrangements were
made for a six nights debate; but, on the fifth evening, after trying to raise a mob, he withdrew
from the contest.]

