Grove, 11th Month, 1808.  "Patience tried, and censoriousness of mind and some words allowed
to have too much dominion.  The higher we rise, the more we feel the foibles of others; and
then the more need have we of the spirit of love and charity, to be patient with them; and
if we are not, it is not excellence, but only the sight of it we have gained."

12th Month, 1808.  "I fear I have not sufficiently this week, wrestled for the blessing of
peace.  I am sensible of having the power of pleasing, of having stronger natural powers and
more acquirements than most women,--I am conscious too, of having with all my might, sought
that which is highest, and that my heart has been made willing to sacrifice all for the attainment
of it, and wonders have I already known; if I do not now diligently seek that which can make
me feelingly ascribe all the glory, where alone it is due, fruitless must all my talents be,
and great my fall."

12th Month, 12th, 1808.  "--- came, the conversation in the evening, softened my heart in the
deduction I drew from it, of what a prize was our possession,--how anchorless the world seemed
to be,--and I loved dear Friends!"

2nd Month, 9th, 1809.  "Twenty-two years old.  Through the mercy of everlasting kindness, great
is the change that this year has wrought in me; the power of Love has enticed me to begin that
spiritual journey which leads to the promised land: I have left, by His guidance and strength,
the bondage of Egypt, and have seen His wonders in the deep. May the endeavour of my life be,
to keep close to that Angel, who can deliver us through the trials and dangers of the wilderness
of this world.

I have not studied much this year, yet I have almost every day read a little, and never was
my sight so clear into the intellectual world.  The works of the head may, I believe, usefully
occupy such portions of time as are not necessary for discharging our relationship in society.
* * * But above all things be humble, which a love of all perfection is, I believe, not only
consistent with, but the root of."

In 1811, Hannah C. Gurney married Jonathan Backhouse, and settled at Darlington.  The early
years of her married life appear to have been much devoted to her young family.  For a time,
her journal was entirely suspended; but in 1815 she writes: "These last four years, are perhaps
best left in that situation, in which spiritual darkness has in a great measure involved them;
it may be the sweet and new objects of external love, and necessary attention in which I have
been engaged, have too much drawn my mind from internal watchfulness, after the first flow
of spiritual joy began to subside; or it has been the will of the Author of all blessing to
change the dispensation, and taking from me the light of his love, in which all beauty so easily
and naturally exists, to teach me indeed, that the glory of all good belongs to Him alone,
and that He is jealous of our decking ourselves with His jewels."

In 1820, she first spoke as a minister, in reference to which she writes: 3rd Month, 1820,
"Had felt for some time, and particularly lately, a warm concern for the interest of our family,
which to my humiliation, surprise, and consolation, I was strengthened to express to them in
a private opportunity, before I left Sunderland.  On our ride home, I felt the candle of the
Lord shine round about me, in a manner I had not done for years, accompanied with much tenderness
and some foreboding fears.  I felt I had put my hand to the plough, and I must not turn back,
but I remembered the days that were past, and I knew something of the power of Him in whom
I had believed; though fear often compassed me about, and too much imagination."

1820.  "My heart has burned as an oven, internal and external supplication has not been wanting
to ease it; may I endure the burnings as I ought."  Speaking of attending the Yearly Meeting
soon after, she says: "I saw many dangerous enemies of my own heart near me, yet was there
mercifully preserved a germ of truth, in which met the hearts of the faithful, and which was
an encouragement to me; I afterwards spoke twice in the Yearly Meeting, and the composure at
the moment, and after a time the peace that ensued, seemed to assure me that I had not run
without being sent.  The remembrance of former days came strongly before me, and in thus again
publicly manifesting the intent of my heart, I felt the comfort of being no stranger to that
Hand, which, as it once fed me with milk, seemed to me now after a long night season, feeding
me with meat."

After her return home, she writes: "Opened my mouth in Darlington meeting, on First-day afternoon.
A mountain in prospect!  The meetings now became very interesting to me, and as the reward
of what I was induced to believe was faithfulness, often greatly refreshing."

In the course of this year, she lost her eldest son, a child of great promise, and the suffering
attendant upon this deep sorrow, in addition to close mental baptism, at times greatly prostrated
her physical powers.

3rd Month, 1822.  She writes, "In the afternoon meeting, a subject seemed so clear before me,
that I ventured to speak; but oh! the evil of my heart, the consciousness of having, or supposing
I had, chosen my words well, was like the fly in the ointment of the apothecary, the baneful
effects of which, I felt many days after.  The more I see of my own mind, the more may the
breathing of my soul be,--'If Thou wilt, Thou canst make me clean.'  Sometimes to believe that
it is His will, is sweet to me, but we must maintain the fight, for though the victory is His,
the fall is ours."

"The constant and deep consideration for others in the most minute actions of life, how I love
it, and feel myself 'as a bullock unaccustomed to the yoke.'"

5th Month, 6th, 1822.  "Days and nights of much spiritual conflict, or rather perhaps the sight
that there was much to conflict with; weak in body and weak in mind!  In my ministry more patient
and deep deliberation wanting.  Last night, believed I had not kept close enough to my Guide
in prayer, with which I felt some distress,--perhaps not altogether wrong,--but had not stopped
when I ought, nor waited at every moment for clearness and strength in the exercise; I hope
I shall not hurt others."

6th Month, 1822.  "A month is now passed in which I have been sweetly enabled to enjoy the
love of God in my heart.  I trust we shall experience preservation, though we may well fear
for ourselves, and be the subject of fear for others.  Oh! that, without affectation, we may
live deeply in the root of life!"

4th Month, 1823.  "I have much to bind me to this earth, but perhaps more power of gratefully
enjoying its blessings is wanted, and may be in store for me before I leave it; some minds
seem deeply anchored in the truth, meekly and patiently bearing the trials of the day, with
firmer faith and greater purity, but each heart alone knows its own bitterness, and I believe
there is never much attainment without much suffering;--a chastened habit of thought, how desirable
to be the habit of early life! riches and indulgences how inimical to it!"

4th Month, 1825.  "My mind enjoyed a liberty, and something of the light of the glorious gospel,
a state which I often pant after, and am so generally a stranger to; in each day a religious
engagement seemed peculiarly blessed to myself.  A sense of being liked and loved, is gratifying;
at the same time I acknowledge, it has its dangers; it is, however, a stimulus to do good and
to communicate."

4th Month, 25th.  "A poor body, and a weak restless mind!  How the sword does wear the scabbard!
but this world is not to be our paradise; perhaps I lose some little strength in striving to
make it so.  Oh! my God, have pity upon me; thou alone canst know how much I suffer;--if my
children ail anything, what it costs me."

In 1826, she visited the families of Friends in Darlington Monthly Meeting, in company with
Isaac Stephenson; and in allusion to this engagement, she writes: "Entered last week on a visit,
with I. Stephenson, to the families of this Monthly Meeting.  Ministry is surely a gift! may
the vessel be purified by using it in faith."

3rd Month, 1826.  "After many cogitations and some provings of faith, I went with Isaac Stephenson
to Manchester, Lancaster, and Leeds: I felt it like leaving all to follow what I believed to
be my divine Guide; it cost me some heart-sinkings and tears, but my mind was sweetly preserved
in peace and confidence; and, though I had times of depression and fear to pass through, I
have been thankful that I made the sacrifice.  It has endeared me to many individuals; and
at times, in the undoubted belief that it was a divine requiring, it has strengthened my faith,
and excited some degree of thankfulness for being so employed."

4th Month, 16th.  "A sweet day of rest and peace, such as I do not remember to have known for
years."

4th Month, 18th.  "Monthly Meeting one of perplexity and fear, Oh! for dwelling deep and lying
low! and waiting in quietness for the 'little cloud!' but it seems as if my faith were to be
tried by things coming unexpectedly upon me, and to be humbled by feeling ill prepared."

From this time she went on advancing rapidly in the work of the ministry: her truly catholic
spirit expanded in love to her fellow-creatures; the inmates of the palace as well as those
of the prison, shared alike her Christian zeal and interest.  Her naturally powerful and refined
mind, deeply instructed in the things of God, rendered her peculiarly fitted to labour amongst
those, who being invested with wealth and influence, she regarded as stewards, deeply responsible
for the right occupation of their various gifts: with many of these, in the upper classes of
society, she sought and obtained opportunities for conveying religious counsel; and in not
a few instances there was a deep response in the hearts of her hearers, to the truths which
she had to proclaim.

The public meetings which she held were very numerous,--many of them very remarkable.  Her
fervour in seeking to arouse to a sense of their condition, those who were "dead in trespasses
and sins,"--her sound and convincing arguments, in controverting the views of the infidel,--her
zeal against the lukewarm professor, and her earnest affectionate invitations to the humble
believer in Jesus, to "lay aside every weight," and partake, in all their fulness, of the blessings
purchased for them by the dear Son of God; will long be remembered by those who felt the truth
and unction of her appeals.  She dwelt upon the glorious scheme of redemption, through the
propitiatory sacrifice of Christ Jesus upon the cross, for the sins of the whole world; and
of the absolute necessity of sanctification of spirit, through the effectual operation of divine
grace on the heart, as one, who had herself largely participated, in the blessings and mercies
of her God.  She was, however, no stranger to deep mental conflicts, both in the prosecution
of her religious labours, and in the more retired sphere of domestic life, as some of her memoranda
show.

In 1827, after visiting with her husband, the counties of Devon and Cornwall, an engagement
which occupied them nearly two months, and included a visit to the Scilly Isles, she writes:--

7th Month, 1827.  "I felt it a day of favour when we gave in our account at the Monthly Meeting,
the third day after our arrival at home, but in returning from this journey, I have been made
remarkably sensible, that the business of religion is the business of the day, and that the
exercises and strength of any past day, are but as nothing for the day that is passing over
us; and many of these days have been passed in much mental conflict, and much bodily weakness
and languor."

1828.  "Many, and many have been my fears, lest the good things that others may see us surrounded
with, should be as a stumbling block leading to covetousness; how hardly shall they that have
riches lead the life of a humble follower of the dear Redeemer!  These thoughts often beset
me, and sometimes make me fear, if ever I have a right to open my mouth to advocate His cause."

"I could wish I had a heart, a head, and a mind fit for all I could embrace, but that may never
be: however, altogether my mind has been of late, less covered with clouds than it used to
be, and my health revives with it.  'What shall I render for all thy benefits?' may well be
the language of my soul."

In 1829 she was again joined by her dear husband in a visit to Ireland; after which she writes:--

10th Month, 1829.  "We passed through many deep baptisms, many sinks both of body and mind,
and in the course of three or four months, attended all the particular meetings; I think we
did too much in the time to do it as well as we might; there was much exercise of faith, but
patience had not its perfect work:--may my daily prayer be for patience, and the daily close
exercise of my spirit to obtain it; for want of it, I get into many perplexities, that might
be avoided; yet with all the omissions and commissions that I can look back upon with shame,
I can number this journey among the many mercies of my life, being at times in it, introduced
into a more soul-satisfying state than I had perhaps ever known before, and I was never more
fully persuaded that we were commissioned to preach the gospel.  The company of my dear husband
was truly a comfort and support, as well as very endearing, and this journey has enlarged my
heart in love to hundreds, and has written many epistles there, which I trust may never be
blotted out."

In 1830, she laid before her Monthly Meeting, a prospect of going to America.  This concern
was cordially united with, and she and her husband were liberated for the service in that land.
In reference to this very weighty engagement, she thus writes to her dear cousin, Elizabeth Fry:--

   Darlington, 2nd Month, 4th, 1830.

   "My dearest Betsy,

   I believe some of thy tenderest sympathies will be aroused, on hearing
   of the momentous prospect now before us of visiting North America.  I
   dare say many, many years ago, thy imagination sent me there,--call it
   by that name, or the more orthodox one of faith,--so has mine, but I
   saw it without baptism; now, I pass into it under baptism, which in
   depth far exceeds any thing I have known before; the severing work it
   is to the ties of nature, to my dear Father, Mother, and Children,
   breaks me all to pieces, but I have much, if not entirely, been spared
   from doubts; all I seem to have had to do was to submit; this is a
   great comfort, for which I desire to be thankful, and for that peace
   which in the midst of deep suffering has so far rested upon it.

   Thy very affectionate
   H. C. BACKHOUSE."

Her labours in America were very abundant, and there is reason to believe, blessed to very
many.  During the five years she spent on that Continent, she visited the greater part of the
meetings of Friends, and in doing so, shrank from no hardship or privation consequent upon
travelling in districts recently settled.

In 1833, Jonathan Backhouse thus writes of her labours--

"I do think my wife's labours in these parts, have been of essential service;--helped some
sunken ones out of a pit, strengthened some weak hands, and confirmed some wavering ones, as
well as comforted the mourners.  She has no cause to be discouraged about her labours, they
have been blessed."

Her husband thinking it desirable to return for a while to England, Hannah C. Backhouse was
provided with a most faithful valuable companion in Eliza P. Kirkbride, and for her as well
as for many other beloved friends to whom she had become closely united in America, she retained
a warm interest and affection to the close of her life.

In 1835, they returned to England, and in the bosom of her beloved family and friends, great
was, for a time, her domestic happiness.  But home endearments were not permitted to interfere
with her devotion to Him, to do whose will, was not only her highest aim, but her chief delight:
and whenever the Lord's call was heard, she was ready to obey.  Many parts of England, and
Scotland were visited between this time and 1845.  During this interval some of her nearest
domestic ties were broken; her eldest surviving son, an engaging youth of seventeen, her beloved
husband, and a precious daughter, the wife of John Hodgkin, of Tottenham, were all summoned
to their eternal home: whilst under the pressure of sorrow occasioned by the removal of Ann
Hodgkin, the following letter was penned:--

   Tottenham, 12th Month, 9th, 1845.

   "My losses have been many and great, but the greatness of this, I am
   increasingly coming into the apprehension of.  She was lovely in her
   life, and in death may we not be divided! or by death, but may her
   sweet spirit be very near in my remembrance, to the end of my days,
   and then may I join Father and Mother, Brothers and Sisters, Husband
   and Children,--how many of the nearest ties now, we trust, in heaven,
   and how few on earth comparatively.  On this subject I cannot now
   dwell,--when I can view her free from all weakness, corruption, and
   suffering, in the enjoyment of that rest, she knew so well how to
   appreciate, I could smile with a joyful sorrow; but few of such
   moments have been given; in general a patient bearing of the present
   moment, is the most we have arrived at, under the blessed unmoved
   confidence that all is well.

   Your very affectionate sister,
   H. C. BACKHOUSE."

From this time a cessation from labour was granted, and after having thus devoted the meridian
of her life to the service of her Lord, she was permitted for some years previous to her decease,
to enjoy a season of almost uninterrupted repose.  Love, meekness, gentleness, and peace were
eminently the clothing of her spirit; and like Moses viewing from the Mount the Promised Land,
she seemed almost to live above the trials and temptations of time; nothing appeared materially
to disturb or ruffle the repose of her soul, deeply centred in God.  Her ministry was often
strikingly beautiful and impressive, especially exhorting to unreserved dedication, and dwelling
on the glories of the heavenly kingdom.

During the latter part of 1849, her health, which had long been delicate, began increasingly
to give way; at the end of the 3rd Month of 1850, she was seized with alarming illness, from
which little hope was entertained of her recovery; from this she so far rallied as to leave
her bed-room, and go into an adjoining sitting-room, but never was able to go down stairs.
It was evident her strength was very small, but no immediate danger was at this time apprehended.
She was at times, cheerful, always tranquil and full of repose, and able to enjoy the company
of those immediately around her; at other times illness oppressed her, and prevented the power
for much exertion of mind or communication of thought.  But words were not needed to declare
her faith or her love, when through having faithfully occupied with the grace that had been
given to her, her whole life might almost be said to have been one act of dedication to God.

On the night of the 5th of Fifth Month, increased illness came on, she continued conscious
almost to the last, and alluded with perfect calmness to the fresh symptoms of danger.  On
her sister remarking to her, that "though it was a dark valley, it would soon be all joy to
her," she responded by a beautiful smile, but power of articulation soon failed, and on the
morning of the 6th of Fifth Month, 1850, she most gently expired.

We cannot close this account more appropriately than in the language of a dear friend who had
long known and loved her.

"A character of such rare excellence, such singleness of purpose, such true devotedness, in
which the intellectual and the spiritual were so well balanced, and well developed together:--a
character in which, with all the occasional undulations and agitations of the surface, there
was such a deep, such a clear, such a calm and steady under-current of sterling piety, of unwavering
attachment to the cause of our God and of his Christ, of close adherence to the leadings of
his Spirit, and strong desire to do his will;--a character in which the woman, the Christian,
and the Quaker were so fused into one, did truly adorn the doctrine of God her Saviour.  It
was conspicuous that by the grace of God she was what she was; though nature had done much,
grace had done much more, and it was evident that she humbly felt that she was not her own,
that she was bought with a price; that amidst all that surrounded her of the perishing things
of time, she did not live unto herself, but unto Him who died for her and rose again, who was
her Alpha and Omega, her all in all. In our little and afflicted church, the loss is great:
she was one of our stakes, and one of our cords!  The stake is removed, the cord is broken,
but our God abideth for ever."

A SKETCH OF THE LIFE AND LABOURS OF PATRICK, The Apostle of the Irish.

We think it will be agreeable to our readers, that we should occupy a few vacant pages, by
the following lively particulars respecting "Patrick, the Apostle of the Irish."  They are
extracted from a work lately published, under the title of, "Light in Dark Places; or Memorials
of Christian Life in the Middle Ages," which is stated, in the preface, to be translated from
a German work by the late Augustus Neander.  Patrick flourished in the early part of the fifth
century, before the Romish yoke was imposed upon the British churches, but not before much
superstition had become mixed with the purity of the Christian faith.

His early circumstances seem, however, to have entirely detached him from dependence upon man,
and to have driven him to the One great Source of light and strength.  Romanists have a story
of his having gone to Rome, and having received there his authority as the first bishop of
Ireland; but it is evident that his call to preach the gospel to the Irish, was not of man,
or from man, but immediately from God, who inspired him with holy faith and courage, and in
a most remarkable manner prospered his labours.

* * * * *

This remarkable man was prepared, by very peculiar circumstances, for his important work; and
in his instance, also, it may be seen, how that infinite wisdom which guides the development
of the kingdom of God amongst men, is able to bring great things out of what seems insignificant
to the eyes of men.

Patrick, called in his native tongue Succath, was born A.D. 372, between the Scottish towns
of Dumbarton and Glasgow, (then appended to England,) in the village of Bonaven, since named
in honour of him, Kilpatrick.  He was the son of a poor unlettered deacon of the village church.
No particular care was bestowed on his education, and he lived on light-heartedly, from day
to day, without making the religious truths taught him by his parents matters of personal interest,
until his seventeenth year.

Then, it happened that he was awakened by a severe chastisement from his Heavenly Father from
this sleep of death to a higher life.  Some pirates of the wild tribe of the Scots, who then
inhabited Ireland, landed at the dwelling-place of Patrick, and carried him off with other
captives.  He was sold into slavery to a Scottish prince, who committed to him the care of
his flocks and herds.  Necessity directed his heart to that God of whom, in his days of rest
in his father's house, he had not thought. Abandoned of men, he found consolation and blessedness
in Him, and now first learned to perceive and enjoy the treasures which the Christian has in
heaven.  Whilst he roamed about with his flocks, through ice and snow, communion with his God
in prayer, and quiet contemplation, were his portion.  Let us hear how he himself, in a confession
which he subsequently wrote, describes this change which took place in him.

"I was about sixteen years old, and knew nothing of the true God, when I was led into captivity
with many thousands of my countrymen, as we deserved, in that we had departed from God, and
had not kept his commandments.  There God opened my unbelieving heart, so that I, although
late, remembered my sins, and turned with my whole heart to the Lord my God, to Him who had
regarded my loneliness, had had compassion on my youth and my ignorance, and had watched over
me before I knew him; who, ere I knew how to choose between good and evil, had guarded and
cherished me, as a father doth his son.  This I know assuredly, that before God humbled me,
I was like a stone lying sunk in deep mire; but He who is able came, He raised me in his mercy,
and set me on a very high place. Therefore must I loudly bear witness to this, in order, in
some measure, to repay the Lord for such great blessings in time and eternity, great beyond
the apprehension of human reason.  "When I came to Ireland," he says, "and used daily to keep
the cattle, and often every day to pray, the fear and the love of God were ever more and more
enkindled in me, and my faith increased, so that, in one day, I spoke a hundred times in prayer,
and in the night almost as often; and even when I passed the night on the mountains, or in
the forest, amid snow and ice and rain, I would awake before daybreak to pray.  And I felt
no discomfort, there was then no sloth in me, such as I find in my heart now, for then the
Spirit glowed within me."

After he had passed six years in the service of this prince, he thought he heard a voice in
his sleep which promised him a speedy return to his native land, and soon afterwards announced
to him that a ship was already prepared to take him.  In reliance on this call, he set out,
and after a journey of many days, he found a ship about to set sail.  But the captain would
not, at first, receive the poor unknown youth.  Patrick fell on his knees and prayed.  He had
not finished his prayer before one of the ship's company called him back, and offered him a
passage.  After a wearisome voyage, in which he experienced, from the grace which guided him,
many a deliverance from great peril, and many a memorable answer to prayer, he arrived once
more amongst his people.

Many years after this, he was again carried off by pirates.  But, in sixteen days, by the special
guidance of Providence, he regained his freedom, and again returned, after many fresh perils
and fatigues, to his people.  Great was the joy of his parents to see their son again after
so many perils, and they entreated him thenceforth to remain with them always.  But Patrick
felt an irresistible call to carry to the people amongst whom he had passed the years of his
youth, and amongst whom he had been born again to the heavenly life, the tidings of that salvation
which had been imparted to him by Divine grace, whilst amongst them.  As the apostle Paul was
by the Lord called, in a nocturnal vision, to carry to the people of Macedonia the first tidings
of salvation, so there appeared to Patrick one night, in a vision, a man from Ireland with
many letters.  He gave him one, and Patrick read the first words, "The words of the Irish."
And as he read these words, he thought he heard the simultaneous cry of many Irish tribes dwelling
by the sea, "We pray thee, child of God, come and dwell once more amongst us."  He could not
read further, from the agitation of his heart, and awoke.  One night it seemed to him as if
something that was in him, and yet above him, and was not himself, prayed with deep sighings,
and at the end of the prayer it spoke, as if it were the Spirit of God himself.  And in Romans
viii.  24 "Christ which also maketh intercession for us."

As the Almighty Shepherd of souls does not draw all to himself by the same means, nor guide
and nourish them alike; but, on the contrary reveals and communicates himself to them in divers
manners, according to his various purposes for them, and their various wants; it pleased Him
to grant Patrick, by many manifestations of his grace, the pledge of the certainty of his fellowship
with Himself, and of his call to preach the Gospel in Ireland.  His parents and friends sought
to hold him back, representing to him that such an undertaking far exceeded his capacity. He
himself informs us of this, when he says: "Many dissuaded me from this journey, and said behind
my back, 'Why does this man throw himself into danger, amongst the heathen who do not know
the Lord?'  It was not said maliciously, but they could not comprehend the thing on account
of my rustic life and manners."  But nothing could mislead him, for he trusted in the power
of the Lord, who imparted to him the inward confidence that He had called him, and was with
him.  He himself says of this: "Whence came to me so great and blessed a gift, that I should
know and love God, and be able to forsake my country and my kindred, although large gifts were
offered me, with many tears, if I would remain?  And against my will I was compelled to offend
many of my kindred and my well-wishers.  But by God's guidance, I yielded not to them; it was
not my own power, it was God who triumphed in me, and resisted them all, so that I went amongst
the people of Ireland to preach to them this Gospel, prepared to suffer much contempt from
the unbelieving, and many persecutions, even to chains; and, if needful, to sacrifice my freedom
for the good of others. And if I am counted worthy, I am ready also to lay down my life with
joy for His name's sake."

Patrick, accordingly, went to Ireland, in the year 431.  He could now make use of his early
proficiency in the Irish language.  He gathered great multitudes of the people together in
the open air, by beat of drum, to tell them of the sufferings of the Saviour for sinful men;
and the doctrine of the cross manifested its characteristic power over many hearts.  Patrick
met indeed with much opposition.  The priests and national bards, who possessed great influence,
excited the people against him, and he had to endure many a hot persecution.  But he overcame
by his steadfastness in the faith, by his fervent zeal, and by a love which drew all hearts
to itself.  Patrick addressed himself especially to the chiefs and princes of the people. 
They could do the most mischief, if they were excited by the Druids against the strange religion;
and, on the other hand, if they received the Gospel, they might make their people more accessible,
and form a counterbalance to the influence of the Druids.

Patrick took the part of servants who had suffered hard usage from their masters.  When he
found youths of the lower ranks, who seemed to him fitted for a higher calling, he provided
for their education, and trained them to be teachers of the people.

He had, from his youth, as we have seen, experienced the especial guidance of the Lord, and
his heart was penetrated by it.  Now, whilst he laboured in the fervour and power of faith,
he was able to produce effects on the rude minds of the Irish, such as never could have been
produced by ordinary human power.  He saw himself, moreover, sustained by the peculiar direction
of that God whose word he preached.  Patrick speaks of it, not in spiritual pride, but full
of the sense of his unworthiness and impotence, as well as of the consciousness of the grace
working in and through him.

After speaking, in one of his letters, of such marvels as God granted him to perform amongst
the barbarous people, he added: "But I conjure all, let no one, on account of these or the
like things, think to place me on an equality with the Apostles and other perfect men; for
I am an insignificant, sinful, and despicable man."  And more marvellous to him than the miracles
which were wrought by him, was the simple fact which filled his whole soul, that by him who,
until God drew his soul to Himself by severe chastisement, had himself cared so little about
his own salvation, many thousands of the people, who had hitherto known nothing of the true
God, should be brought to salvation.  "Marvel," he says, "ye who fear God, small and great,
and ye eloquent talkers, who know nothing of the Lord, inquire and acknowledge who it is that
has awakened me, a simple man, from the midst of those who are accounted wise, learned, and
mighty, in word and in deed.  For I, who was abandoned beyond many others in the world; even
I, in spite of all this, have been called by his Spirit, that in fear and trembling, yet faithfully
and blamelessly, I should serve the people to whom the love of Christ has led me. Unweariedly
must I thank my God, who has kept me faithful in the day of temptation, so that I can this
day trustfully offer my soul as a living sacrifice of thanksgiving to my Lord Christ, who has
delivered me out of all my afflictions, so that I must also say, Who am I, Lord? and what is
my calling? that thou hast so gloriously revealed to me thy Godhead, that I can now constantly
rejoice amongst the heathen, and glorify Thy name wherever I may be, not only in prosperity,
but also in adversity; so that whatever may befall me, good or evil, I can calmly receive it,
and continually thank that God who has taught me to believe in Him as the only true God."

