  But the tale of Chinese philosophers is a long one. It is a department
  of literature in which the leading scholars of all ages have mostly
  had something to say. The great Chu Hsi, A.D. 1130-1200, whose fame is
  chiefly perhaps that of a commentator and whose monument is his
  uniform exegesis of the Confucian Canon, was also a voluminous writer
  on philosophy. He took a hand in the mystery which surrounds the I
  Ching (or Yih King), generally known as the Book of Changes, which
  is held by some to be the oldest Chinese work and which forms part of
  the Confucian Canon. It is ascribed to King Wên, the virtual founder
  of the Chou dynasty, 1122-249 B.C., whose son became the first
  sovereign and posthumously raised his father to kingly rank. It
  contains a fanciful system of divination, deduced originally from
  eight diagrams consisting of triplet combinations of a line and a
  broken line, either one of which is necessarily repeated twice, and in
  two cases three times, in the same combination. Thus there may be
  three lines , or three broken lines , and
  other such combinations as  and .
  Confucius declared that he would like to give another fifty years to
  the elucidation of this puzzling text. Shao Yung, A.D. 1011-1077,
  sought the key in numbers: Ch'êng I., A.D. 1033-1107, in the eternal
  fitness of things. "But Chu Hsi alone," says a writer of the 17th
  century, "was able to pierce through the meaning and appropriate the
  thoughts of the inspired man who composed it." No foreigner, however,
  has been able quite to understand what Chu Hsi did make of it, and
  several have gone so far as to set all native interpretations aside in
  favour of their own. Thus, the I Ching has been discovered by one to
  be a calendar of the lunar year; by another, to contain a system of
  phallic worship; and by a third, to be a vocabulary of the language of
  a tribe, whose very existence had to be postulated for the purpose.

    Kuan Chung.

  Political Economy.--This department of literature has been by no
  means neglected by Chinese writers. So early as the 7th century B.C.
  we find Kuan Chung, the prime minister of the Ch'i state, devoting his
  attention to economic problems, and thereby making that state the
  wealthiest and the strongest of all the feudal kingdoms. Beginning
  life as a merchant, he passed into the public service, and left behind
  him at death a large work, parts of which, as we now possess it, may
  possibly have come direct from his own hand, the remainder being
  written up at a later date in accordance with the principles he
  inculcated. His ideal State was divided into twenty-one parts, fifteen
  of which were allotted to officials and agriculturists, and six to
  manufacturers and traders. His great idea was to make his own state
  self-contained; and accordingly he fostered agriculture in order to be
  independent in time of war, and manufactures in order to increase his
  country's wealth in time of peace. He held that a purely agricultural
  population would always remain poor; while a purely manufacturing
  population would risk having its supplies of raw material cut off in
  time of war. He warmly encouraged free imports as a means of enriching
  his countrymen, trusting to their ability, under these conditions, to
  hold their own against foreign competition. He protected capital, in
  the sense that he considered capitalists to be necessary for the
  development of commerce in time of peace, and for the protection of
  the state in time of war.

  Mencius (see above) was in favour of heavily taxing merchants who
  tried to engross for the purpose of regrating, that is, to buy up
  wholesale for the purpose of retailing at monopoly prices; he was in
  fact opposed to all trusts and corners in trade. He was in favour of a
  tax to be imposed upon such persons as were mere consumers, living
  upon property which had been amassed by others and doing no work
  themselves. No tax, however, was to be exacted from property-owners
  who contributed by their personal efforts to the general welfare of
  the community. The object of the tax was not revenue, but the
  prevention of idleness with its attendant evil consequences to the
  state.

    Wang An-shih.

  Wang An-shih, the Reformer, or Innovator, as he has been called,
  flourished A.D. 1021-1086. In 1069 he was appointed state councillor,
  and forthwith entered upon a series of startling reforms which have
  given him a unique position in the annals of China. He established a
  state monopoly in commerce, under which the produce of a district was
  to be used first for the payment of taxes, then for the direct use of
  the district itself, and the remainder was to be purchased by the
  government at a cheap rate, either to be held until there was a rise
  in price, or to be transported to some other district in need of it.
  The people were to profit by fixity of prices and escape from further
  taxation; and the government, by the revenue accruing in the process
  of administration. There was also to be a system of state advances to
  cultivators of land; not merely to the needy, but to all alike. The
  loan was to be compulsory, and interest was to be paid on it at the
  rate of 2% per month. The soil was to be divided into equal areas and
  taxed according to its fertility in each case, without reference to
  the number of inhabitants contained in each area. All these, and other
  important reforms, failed to find favour with a rigidly conservative
  people, and Wang An-shih lived long enough to see the whole of his
  policy reversed.

    Sun-Tz[)u].

  Military Writers.--Not much, relatively speaking, has been written
  by the Chinese on war in general, strategy or tactics. There is,
  however, one very remarkable work which has come down to us from the
  6th century B.C., as to the genuineness of which there now seems to be
  no reasonable doubt. A biographical notice of the author, Sun Wu, is
  given in the Shih Chi (see above), from which we learn that "he knew
  how to handle an army, and was finally appointed General." His work,
  entitled the Art of War, is a short treatise in thirteen chapters,
  under the following headings: "Laying Plans," "Waging War," "Attack by
  Stratagem," "Tactical Dispositions," "Energy," "Weak Points and
  Strong," "Manoeuvring," "Variation of Tactics," "The Army on the
  March," "Terrain," "The Nine Situations," "The Attack by Fire," and
  "The Use of Spies." Although the warfare of Sun Wu's day was the
  warfare of bow and arrow, of armoured chariots and push of pike,
  certain principles inseparably associated with successful issue will
  be found enunciated in his work. Professor Mackail, in his Latin
  Literature (p. 86), declares that Varro's Imagines was "the first
  instance in history of the publication of an illustrated book." But
  reference to the Art Section of the history of the Western Han
  dynasty, 206 B.C.-A.D. 25, will disclose the title of fifteen or
  sixteen illustrated books, one of which is Sun Wu's Art of War.

    Hsü Kuang-ch'i.

  Agriculture.--In spite of the high place accorded to agriculturists,
  who rank second only to officials and before artisans and traders, and
  in spite of the assiduity with which agriculture has been practised in
  all ages, securing immunity from slaughter for the ploughing ox--what
  agricultural literature the Chinese possess may be said to belong
  entirely to modern times. Ch'ên Fu of the 12th century A.D. was the
  author of a small work in three parts, dealing with agriculture,
  cattle-breeding and silkworms respectively. There is also a well-known
  work by an artist of the early 13th century, with forty-six woodcuts
  illustrating the various operations of agriculture and weaving. This
  book was reprinted under the emperor K'ang Hsi, 1662-1723, and new
  illustrations with excellent perspective were provided by Chiao
  Ping-chên, an artist who had adopted foreign methods as introduced by
  the famous Jesuit, Matteo Ricci. The standard work on agriculture,
  entitled Nung Chêng Ch'üan Shu, was compiled by Hsü Kuang-ch'i,
  1562-1634, generally regarded as the only influential member of the
  mandarinate who has ever become a convert to Christianity. It is in
  sixty sections, the first three of which are devoted to classical
  references. Then follow two sections on the division of land, six on
  the processes of husbandry, none on hydraulics, four on agricultural
  implements, six on planting, six on rearing silkworms, four on trees,
  one on breeding animals, one on food and eighteen on provision against
  a time of scarcity.

    Pên Ts'no.

  Medicine and Therapeutics.--The oldest of the innumerable medical
  works of all descriptions with which China has been flooded from time
  immemorial is a treatise which has been credited to the Yellow Emperor
  (see above), 2698-2598 B.C. It is entitled Plain Questions of the
  Yellow Emperor, or Su Wên for short, and takes the form of
  questions put by the emperor and answered by Earl Ch'i, a minister,
  who was himself author of the Nei Ching, a medical work no longer in
  existence. Without accepting the popular attribution of the Su Wên,
  it is most probable that it is a very old book, dating back to several
  centuries before Christ, and containing traditional lore of a still
  more remote period. The same may be said of certain works on cautery
  and acupuncture, both of which are still practised by Chinese doctors;
  and also of works on the pulse, the variations of which have been
  classified and allocated with a minuteness hardly credible. Special
  treatises on fevers, skin-diseases, diseases of the feet, eyes, heart,
  &c., are to be found in great quantities, as well as veterinary
  treatises on the treatment of diseases of the horse and the domestic
  buffalo. But in the whole range of Chinese medical literature there is
  nothing which can approach the Pên Ts'ao, or Materia Medica,
  sometimes called the Herbal, a title (i.e. Pên Ts'ao) which seems to
  have belonged to some book of the kind in pre-historic ages. The work
  under consideration was compiled by Li Shih-chên, who completed his
  task in 1578 after twenty-six years' labour. No fewer than eighteen
  hundred and ninety-two species of drugs, animal, vegetable and
  mineral, are dealt with, arranged under sixty-two classes in sixteen
  divisions; and eight thousand one hundred and sixty prescriptions are
  given in connexion with the various entries. The author professes to
  quote from the original Pên Ts'ao, above mentioned; and we obtain
  from his extracts an insight into some curious details. It appears
  that formerly the number of recognized drugs was three hundred and
  sixty-five in all, corresponding with the days of the year. One
  hundred and twenty of these were called sovereigns (cf. a sovereign
  prescription); and were regarded as entirely beneficial to health,
  taken in any quantity or for any time. Another similar number were
  called ministers; some of these were poisonous, and all had to be
  used with discretion. The remaining one hundred and twenty-five were
  agents; all very poisonous, but able to cure diseases if not taken
  in over-doses. The modern Pên Ts'ao, in its sixteen divisions, deals
  with drugs classed under water, fire, earth, minerals, herbs, grain,
  vegetables, fruit, trees, clothes and utensils, insects, fishes,
  crustacea, birds, beasts and man. In each case the proper name of the
  drug is first given, followed by its explanation, solution of doubtful
  points, correction of errors, means of identification by taste, use in
  prescriptions, &c. The work is fully illustrated, and there is an
  index to the various medicines, classed according to the complaints
  for which they are used.

  Divination, &c.--The practice of divination is of very ancient date
  in China, traceable, it has been suggested, back to the Canon of
  Changes (see above), which is commonly used by the lettered classes
  for that purpose. A variety of other methods, the chief of which is
  astrology, have also been adopted, and have yielded a considerable
  bulk of literature. Even the officially-published almanacs still mark
  certain days as suitable for certain undertakings, while other days
  are marked in the opposite sense. The spirit of Zadkiel pervades the
  Chinese empire. In like manner, geomancy is a subject on which many
  volumes have been written; and the same applies to the pseudo sciences
  of palmistry, physiognomy, alchemy (introduced from Greek sources) and
  others.

  Painting.--Calligraphy, in the eyes of the Chinese, is just as much
  a fine art as painting; the two are, in fact, considered to have come
  into existence together, but as might be expected the latter occupies
  the larger space in Chinese literature, and forms the subject of
  numerous extensive works. One of the most important of these is the
  Hsüan Ho Hua P'u, the author of which is unknown. It contains
  information concerning two hundred and thirty-one painters and the
  titles of six thousand one hundred and ninety-two of their pictures,
  all in the imperial collection during the dynastic period Hsüan Ho,
  A.D. 1119-1126, from which the title is derived. The artists are
  classified under one of the following ten headings, supposed to
  represent the line in which each particularly excelled: Religion,
  Human Figures, Buildings, Barbarians (including their Animals),
  Dragons and Fishes, Landscape, Animals, Flowers and Birds, The Bamboo,
  Vegetables and Fruits.

  Music.--The literature of music does not go back to a remote period.
  The Canon of Music, which was formerly included in the Confucian
  Canon, has been lost for many centuries; and the works now available,
  exclusive of entries in the dynastic histories, are not older than the
  9th century A.D., to which date may be assigned the Chieh Ku Lu, a
  treatise on the deerskin drum, said to have been introduced into China
  from central Asia, and evidently of Scythian origin. There are several
  important works of the 16th and 17th centuries, in which the history
  and theory of music are fully discussed, and illustrations of
  instruments are given, with measurements in each case, and the special
  notation required.

  Miscellaneous.--Under this head may be grouped a vast number of
  works, many of them exhaustive, on such topics as archaeology, seals
  (engraved), numismatics, pottery, ink (the miscalled "Indian"),
  mirrors, precious stones, tea, wine, chess, wit and humour, even
  cookery, &c. There is, indeed, hardly any subject, within reasonable
  limits, which does not find some corner in Chinese literature.

    Lung Wei Pi Shu.

  Collections.--Reprints of miscellaneous books and pamphlets in a
  uniform edition, the whole forming a "library," has long been a
  favourite means of disseminating useful (and other) information. Of
  these, the Lung Wei Pi Shu may be taken as a specimen. In bulk it
  would be about the equivalent of twenty volumes, 8vo, of four hundred
  pages to each. Among its contents we find the following. A handbook of
  phraseology, with explanations; a short account of fabulous regions to
  the N., S., E. and W.; notes on the plants and trees of southern
  countries; biographical sketches of ninety-two wonderful personages;
  an account of the choice of an empress, with standard measurements of
  the height, length of limb, &c., of the ideal woman; "Pillow Notes" (a
  term borrowed by the Japanese), or jottings on various subjects,
  ranging from the Creation to an account of Fusang, a country where the
  trees are thousands of feet high and of vast girth, thus supporting
  the California, as opposed to the Mexico, identification of Fusang;
  critiques on the style of various poets, and on the indebtedness of
  each to earlier writers; a list of the most famous bronze vessels cast
  by early emperors, with their dimensions, inscriptions, &c.; a
  treatise on the bamboo; a list of famous swords, with dates of forging
  and inscriptions; an account of the old Mongol palace, previous to its
  destruction by the first Ming emperor; notes on the wild tribes of
  China; historical episodes; biographical notices of one hundred and
  four poets of the present dynasty; notes on archaeological,
  supernatural and other topics, first published in the 9th century;
  notes for bibliophiles on the care of books, and on paper, ink,
  pictures and bric-à-brac; a collection of famous criminal cases; night
  thoughts suggested by a meteor. Add to the above, numerous short
  stories relating to magic, dreams, bilocation, and to almost every
  possible phase of supernatural manifestation, and the reader will have
  some idea of what he may expect in an ordinary "library" of a popular
  character. It must always be remembered that with the Chinese, style
  is of paramount importance. Documents, the subject-matter of which
  would be recognized to be of no educative value, would still be
  included, if written in a pleasing style, such as might be serviceable
  as a model.

  Individual Authors.--In a similar manner it has always been
  customary for relatives or friends, sometimes for the trade, to
  publish the "complete works" of important and often unimportant
  writers; usually, soon after death. And as literary distinction has
  hitherto almost invariably led to high office under the state, the
  collected works of the great majority of authors open with selected
  Memorials to the Throne and other documents of an official character.
  The public interest in these may have long since passed away; but they
  are valued by the Chinese as models of a style to be imitated, and the
  foreign student occasionally comes across papers on once burning
  questions arising out of commercial or diplomatic intercourse with
  western nations. Then may follow--the order is not always the
  same--the prefaces which the author contributed from time to time to
  the literary undertakings of his friends. Preface-writing is almost a
  department of Chinese literature. No one ever thinks of publishing a
  book without getting one or more of his capable associates to provide
  prefaces, which are naturally of a laudatory character, and always
  couched in highly-polished and obscure terms, the difficulty of the
  text being often aggravated by a fanciful and almost illegible script.
  Prefaces written by emperors, many examples of which may be seen, are
  of course highly esteemed, and are generally printed in coloured ink.
  The next section may comprise biographical notices of eminent men and
  women, or of mere local celebrities, who happened to die in the
  author's day. Then will follow Records, a title which covers
  inscriptions carved on the walls of new buildings, or on memorial
  tablets, and also notes on pictures which the author may have seen,
  places which he may have visited, or allegorical incidents which he
  may have imagined. Then come disquisitions, or essays on various
  subjects; researches, being short articles of archaeological interest;
  studies or monographs; birthday congratulations to friends or to
  official colleagues; announcements, as to deities, a cessation of
  whose worship is threatened if the necessary rain or fair weather be
  not forthcoming; funeral orations, letters of condolence, &c. The
  above items will perhaps fill half a dozen volumes; the remaining
  volumes, running to twenty or thirty in all, as the case may be, will
  contain the author's poetry, together with his longer and more serious
  works. The essential of such a collection is, in Chinese eyes, its
  completeness.

  San Kuo Chih.

  Hung Lou Mêng.

  Liao Chai.

Fiction.--Although novels are not regarded as an integral part of literature proper, it is
generally conceded that some novels may be profitably studied, if for no other reason, from
the point of view of style. With the novel, however, we are no longer on perfectly safe ground
in regard to that decency which characterizes, as has been above stated, the vast mass of Chinese
literature. Chinese novels range, in this sense, from the simplest and most unaffected tale
of daily life, down to low--not the lowest--depths of objectionable pornography. The San Kuo
Chih, an historical romance based upon a period of disruption at the close of the 2nd century
A.D., is a delightful book, packed with episodes of battle, heroism, self-sacrifice, skilful
strategy, and all that goes to make up a stirring picture of strenuous times. Its author, who
might almost have been Walter Scott, cannot be named for certain; but the work itself probably
belongs to the 13th century, a date at which the novel begins to make its appearance in China.
Previous to that time, there had been current an immense quantity of stories of various kinds,
but nothing like a novel, as we understand the term. From the 13th century onwards, the growth
of the novel was continuous; and finally, in the 17th century, a point was reached which is
not likely to be surpassed. The Hung Lou Mêng, the author of which took pains, for political
reasons, to conceal his identity, is a creation of a very high order. Its plot is intricate
and original, and the dénouement startlingly tragic. In the course of the story, the chief
clue of which is love, woven in with intrigue, ambition, wealth, poverty, and other threads
of human life, there occur no fewer than over four hundred characters, each one possessed of
a distinctive personality drawn with marvellous skill. It contains incidents which recall the
licence tolerated in Fielding; but the coarseness, like that of Fielding, is always on the
surface, and devoid of the ulterior suggestiveness of the modern psychological novel. But perhaps
no work of fiction has ever enjoyed such vogue among literary men as a collection of stories,
some graceful, some weird, written in 1679 by P'u Sungling, a disappointed candidate at the
public examinations. This collection, known as the Liao Chai, is exceedingly interesting to
the foreign student for its sidelights on folklore and family life; to the native scholar,
who professes to smile at the subject-matter as beyond the pale of genuine literature, it is
simply invaluable as an expression of the most masterly style of which his language is capable.

  Hsi Hsiang Chi.

Drama.--Simultaneously with the appearance of the novel, stage-plays seem to have come into
existence in China. In the earliest ages there were set dances by trained performers, to the
accompaniment of music and singing; and something of the kind, more or less ornate as regards
the setting, has always been associated with solemn and festive occasions. But not until the
days of the Mongol rule, A.D. 1260-1368, can the drama proper be said to have taken root and
flourished in Chinese soil. The probability is that both the drama and the novel were introduced
from Central Asia in the wake of the Mongol conquerors; the former is now specially essential
to the everyday happiness of the Chinese people, who are perhaps the most confirmed playgoers
in the world. There is an excellent collection of one hundred plays of the Mongol dynasty,
with an illustration to each, first published in 1615; there is also a further large collection,
issued in 1845, which contains a great number of plays arranged under sixty headings, according
to the style and purport of each, besides many others. There is one famous play of the Mongol
period which deals largely in plot and passion, and is a great favourite with the educated
classes. It is entitled Hsi Hsiang Chi, or the Story of the Western Pavilion; and as if there
was a doubt as to the reception which would be accorded to the work, a minatory sentence was
inserted in the prolegomena: "If any one ventures to call this book indecent, he will certainly
have his tongue torn out in hell." So far as the written play is concerned, its language is
altogether unobjectionable; on the stage, by means of gag and gesture, its presentation is
often unseemly and coarse. What the Chinese playgoer delights in, as an evening's amusement,
is a succession of plays which are more of the nature of sketches, slight in construction and
generally weak in plot, some of them based upon striking historical episodes, and others dealing
with a single humorous incident.

  Dictionaries.--The Erh Ya, or Nearing the Standard, is commonly
  classed as a dictionary, and is referred by native scholars generally
  to the 12th century B.C. The entries are arranged under nineteen
  heads, to facilitate reference, and explain a large number of words
  and phrases, including names of beasts, birds, plants and fishes. The
  work is well illustrated in the large modern edition; but the actual
  date of composition is an entirely open question, and the insertion of
  woodcuts must necessarily belong to a comparatively late age (see
  Military Writers).

    Shuo Wên.

  With the Shuo Wên, or Explanation of Written Words, we begin the
  long list of lexicographical works which constitute such a notable
  feature in Chinese literature. A scholar, named Hsü Shên, who died
  about A.D. 120, made an effort to bring together and analyse all the
  characters it was possible to gather from the written language as it
  existed in his own day. He then proceeded to arrange these
  characters--about ten thousand in all--on a system which would enable
  a student to find a given word without having possibly to search
  through the whole book. To do this, he simply grouped together all
  such as had a common part, more or less indicative of the meaning of
  each, much as though an English dictionary were to consist of such
  groups as

    Dog-days
    Dog-kennel
    Dog-collar
    Dog-meat
    Dog-nap

  and so on.

    Horse-collar
    Horse-flesh
    Horse-back
    Horse-fly
    Horse-chestnut

  and so on.

  Hsü Shên selected five hundred and forty of these common parts, or
  Radicals (see Language), a number which, as will be seen later on,
  was found to be cumbrously large; and under each Radical he inserted
  all the characters belonging to it, but with no particular order or
  arrangement, so that search was still, in many cases, quite a
  laborious task. The explanations given were chiefly intended to
  establish the pictorial origin of the language; but whereas no one now
  disputes this as a general conclusion, the steps by which Hsü Shên
  attempted to prove his theory must in a large number of instances be
  dismissed as often inadequate and sometimes ridiculous. Nevertheless,
  it was a great achievement; and the Shuo Wên is still indispensable
  to the student of the particular script in vogue a century or two
  before Christ. It is also of value in another sense. It may be used,
  with discretion, in testing the genuineness of an alleged ancient
  document, which, if an important or well-known document before the age
  of Hsü Shên, would not be likely to contain characters not given in
  his work. Under this test the Tao Tê Ching, for instance, breaks
  down (see Huai-nan Tz[)u]).

  Passing over a long series of dictionaries and vocabularies which
  appeared at various dates, some constructed on Hsü Shên's plan, with
  modifications and improvements, and others, known as phonetic
  dictionaries, arranged under the finals according to the Tones, we
  come to the great standard lexicon produced under the auspices, and
  now bearing the name of the emperor K'ang Hsi, A.D. 1662-1723.

    Phonetic dictionaries.

  But before proceeding, a rough attempt may be made to exhibit in
  English terms the principle of the phonetic as compared with the
  radical dictionary described above. In the spoken language there would
  occur the word light, the opposite of dark, and this would be
  expressed in writing by a certain symbol. Then, when it became
  necessary to write down light, the opposite of heavy, the result
  would be precisely what we see in English. But as written words
  increased, always with a limited number of vocables (see Language),
  this system was found to be impracticable, and Radicals were inserted
  as a means of distinguishing one kind of light from another, but
  without altering the original sound. Now, in the phonetic dictionary
  the words are no longer arranged in such groups as

    Sun-light
    Sun-beam
    Sun-stroke
    Sun-god, &c.

  according to the Radicals, but in such groups as

    Sun-light
    Moon-light
    Foot-light
    Gas-light, &c.

  according to the phonetics, all the above four being pronounced simply
  light, without reference to the radical portion which guides towards
  the limited sense of the term. So, in a phonetic dictionary, we should
  have such a group as

    Brass-bound
    Morocco-bound
    Half-bound
    Spell-bound
    Homeward-bound
    Wind-bound

  and so on, all the above six being pronounced simply bound. To
  return to "K'ang Hsi," as the lexicon in question is familiarly
  styled, the total number of characters given therein amounts to over
  forty-four thousand, grouped no longer under the five hundred and
  forty Radicals of Hsü Shên, but under the much more manageable number
  of two hundred and fourteen, as already used in earlier dictionaries.
  Further, as the groups of characters would now be more than four times
  as large as in the Shuo Wên, they were subdivided under each Radical
  according to the number of strokes in the other, or phonetic part of
  the character. Thus, adopting letters as strokes, for the purpose of
  illustration, we should have "dog-nap" in the group of Radical "dog"
  and three strokes, while "dog-days" and "dog-meat" would both be found
  under Radical "dog" with four strokes, and so on. The two hundred and
  fourteen Radicals are themselves arranged in groups according to the
  number of strokes; so that it is not a very arduous task to turn up
  ordinary characters in a Chinese dictionary. Finally, although Chinese
  is a monosyllabic and non-alphabetic language, a method has been
  devised, and has been in use since the 3rd century A.D., by which the
  sound of any word can be indicated in a dictionary otherwise than by
  simply quoting a word of similar sound, which of course may be equally
  unknown to the searcher. Thus, the sound of a word pronounced ching
  can be exhibited by selecting two words, one having the initial ch,
  and the other a final ing. E.g. the sound ching is given as chien
  ling; that is ch[ien l]ing = ching.

  The Concordance.--Considering the long unbroken series of years
  during which Chinese literature has always, in spite of many losses,
  been steadily gaining in bulk, it is not astonishing to find that
  classical, historical, mythological and other allusions to personages
  or events of past times have also grown out of all proportion to the
  brain capacity even of the most brilliant student. Designed especially
  to meet this difficulty, there are several well-known handbooks,
  elementary and advanced, which trace such allusions to their source
  and provide full and lucid explanations; but even the most extensive
  of these is on a scale incommensurate with the requirements of the
  scholar. Again, it is due to the emperor K'ang Hsi that we possess one
  of the most elaborate compilations of the kind ever planned and
  carried to completion. The P'ei Wên Yün Fu, or Concordance to
  Literature, is a key, not only to allusions in general, but to all
  phraseology, including allusions, idiomatic expressions and other
  obscure combinations of words, to be found in the classics, in the
  dynastic histories, and in all poets, historians, essayists, and
  writers of recognized eminence in their own lines. No attempt at
  explanation is given; but enough of the passage, or passages, in which
  the phrase occurs, is cited to enable the reader to gather the meaning
  required. The trouble, of course, lies with the arrangement of these
  phrases in a non-alphabetic language. Recourse has been had to the
  Rhymes and the five Tones (see Language); and all phrases which end
  with the same word form one of a number of groups which appear under
  the same Rhyme, the Rhymes themselves being distributed over five
  Tones. Thus, to find any phrase, the first point is to discover what
  is its normal Rhyme; the next is to ascertain the Tone of that Rhyme.
  Then, under this Tone-group the Rhyme-word will be found, and under
  the Rhyme-word group will be found the final word of the phrase in
  question. It will now only remain to run through this last group of
  phrases, all of which have this same final word, and the search--so
  vast is the collection--will usually yield a satisfactory result. The
  P'ei Wên Yün Fu runs of course to many volumes; a rough estimate
  shows it to contain over fifteen million words.

    Yuan Lo Ta Tien.

