Forced to Fight (HEINEMANN) is the record of a Schleswig Dane set forth by ERICH ERICHSEN and
very capably translated from the Danish by INGEBORG LUND. It is a book that with a singular
skill and with a passion that never gets out of hand so as to convey the impression of hysterical
exaggeration lays bare the heart of a youth who was at the storming of Liége, fought in Flanders,
then on the Russian Front and again in the Argonne, whence a shattered elbow sent him home
broken and aged--that is what his chronicler emphasises--not by the wound, but by the long
horror and fatigue of the successive campaigns. The poignancy of his sufferings lay in the
fact that as a Dane he went without any of the great hopes and passions that inspired his German
comrades, of whom however he speaks with no ill-will. He took part by order in some of the
"punishments" of Belgian villages, loathing the savage cruelties of them and deeply convinced
that the rape of Belgium was an inexpiable wrong which the world will remember to the lasting
dishonour of the German name. You get an impression of the added horror of this War for the
imaginative temperamental, and some pathetic pictures of all the suffering among simple innocent
machine-driven people on the other side, who had no will to war and no illusions as to the
splendour of world-dominion--a vision of desolate homes and countrysides empty of all but very
old men.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first lines of Still Life (CONSTABLE), which begins in "the night train from the German
frontier to Paris," gave me much the same impression of impossibility (was there ever such
a train?) that I should have felt about a story that opened in the moon. But the shock of this
was nothing to some, different in character, that were to follow. Frankly, I confess that Mr.
MIDDLETON MURRY'S book has me baffled. Others perhaps may admire the pains lavished by the
author in analysing the emotions of a group of characters whose temperaments certainly give
him every opportunity for this exercise. An impressionist, and impressionable, youth, whom
I have (reluctantly) to call hero, intrigues his unpleasant way through the plot; first in
Paris--where you may make a shrewd guess at his pre-occupations--then in an English village,
to which he has eloped with the wife of a friend; in France again, and so on. The emotions
to which these amorous adventures expose him are handled by the author with a care that suggests
rather the naughtiness of the antique nineties than anything belonging to these more vigorous
days. I am far from suggesting that, as a study in super-sensibility, the book lacks skill.
There are indeed scenes of almost painful cleverness. My complaint is that it is out of date,
or (I should perhaps better say) conspicuously out of harmony with the present time. But if
you hanker for these pictures of the past that is another matter. I will merely issue a warning
that you should preserve this book on some shelf not too accessible by those who are still
young enough to overestimate its importance.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was an odd experience to turn, as I did, directly from the new Haymarket play, of which
the late TOM GALLON was part author, to what I suppose was the last story he ever wrote, The
Lady in the Black Mask (MILLS AND BOON), which begins in a theatre with the heroine watching
a play. It begins, moreover, very well and excitingly; much better, I regret to add, than it
goes on. When the heroine arrived home from the theatre, the girl whose companion she was,
pleading fatigue, persuaded her to go out again to a masked ball, wearing the dress and indeed
assuming the personality of her mistress. The two girls, Ruth, the heroine, and Damia, lived
in a gloomy house with old Mr. Verinder, who was Damia's guardian. But when Ruth returned from
the ball she found that this arrangement no longer held good, Verinder having been melodramatically
stabbed during her absence. And as no one knew, or would ever believe, that it was Damia and
not herself who had remained at home you recognise a very pretty gambit of intrigue. Unfortunately,
as I said above, the tension is not quite sustained, partly because the characters all behave
in an increasingly foolish and improbable fashion (even for tales of this genre); partly because
there is never sufficient uncertainty as to who it was (not, of course, Damia) who really killed
Verinder. Still, of its kind, as the sort of shocker that used to be valued at a shilling,
but appears, like everything else, to have risen in price, The Lady in the Black Mask is fairly
up to the average. I fancy her profits might have been greater before the discouragement of
railway travelling. That is precisely the environment for which she is best fitted.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the series of "Chap" books which is emerging from The Bodley Head I have no doubt that Canada
Chaps will be welcome. I hope, however, that Mrs. SIME will not mind my saying that the best
of her tales are those which have more to do with Canada than its "chaps." Her stories of fighting
and of fighters seem to me to have a note in them that does not ring quite true. It is just
the difference between the soldier telling his own artless and rugged tale and someone else
telling it for him with a touch of artifice. But when the author merely uses the War as her
background she writes with real power. The straining for effect vanishes, and so little do
the later stories resemble the earlier that I should not have guessed that they were written
by the same hand. "Citoyenne Michelle" and "The King's Gift," for instance, are true gems,
and they are offered to you at the price of paste. Nowhere will you find a better bargain for
your shilling.

       *       *       *       *       *

HELEN MACKAY, in A Journal of Small Things (MELROSE), sets before us with, it might seem, almost
too deliberate simplicity of idiom little scenes and remembered reflections of her days in
France since the July of the terrible year. An American to whom France has come to be her adopted
and most tenderly loved foster-country, she tells of little things, chiefly sad little things,
seen in the hospitals she served or by the wayside or in the houses of the simple and the great,
shadowed alike by the all-embracing desolation of the War. The writer has a singular power
of selecting the significant details of an incident, and a delicate sensitiveness to beauty
and to suffering which gives distinction to this charming book. Less happy perhaps and much
less in the picture are the episodes learnt only at second hand and suggesting the technique
and unreality of the imagined short story.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

From a paragraph about Mr. JOHN BUCHAN:--

    "It is said that he writes his novels as a cure for insomnia."--News
    of the World.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CENSOR ABROAD.

    "When the High Court is sitting, the Resident Magistrate's Court is
    held in a room about upteen feet long by about upteen feet
    wide."--East African Standard.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "CURES STOMACH TROUBLE OR MONEY BACK."--Advt. in South African Paper.

This "Money Back" seems a new disease.

       *       *       *       *       *

From an article in the Berliner Tageblatt descriptive of life on the Western Front:--

    "Perhaps the sun will soon bring warm wind, and how glad one would be
    of a thaw in the trenches. But then the accursed time will come again
    when the whole surface of Northern France sticks to the boot of the
    German soldier."--The Times.

Our brave police must look to their laurels.