 No meeting had, before that, ventured to call itself "Repeal infantry;"
and to Clontarf horsemen also were summoned, and were designated "Repeal cavalry;" and, in
the orders for their assembling, marching, and conducting themselves, military directions were
given; and the meeting, had it been permitted to assemble, would have been a parade of cavalry,
ready for civil war. It would have been a sort of review--in the face of the city of Dublin,
in open defiance of all order and government. Let us add, that, just at that time, Mr O'Connell
had published his "Address to all her Majesty's subjects, in all parts of her dominions," (a
most libellous and treasonable publication;) and the arrangements to secure the peace were
more complete, and could be brought to bear more easily, on the Clontarf than on any of the
preceding meetings. The occasion presented itself, and as soon as possible the Irish authorities
assembled at Dublin; the proclamation appeared; the ground was pre-occupied, and a force that
was irresistible went out to keep the peace, and prevent the meeting. The result showed the
perfect success of the Government's enterprise.

As the foregoing topics will doubtless occupy much of the attention of parliament during the
ensuing session, we were anxious to place on record our own opinions, as the result of much
reflection, during a period when events were transpiring which threw upon the Government an
awful responsibility, and rendered their course one of almost unprecedented difficulty. Modern
times, we are convinced, have witnessed but few instances of such a masterly policy, combined
with signal self-reliance.

One or two general topics connected with Ireland, we have time only to glance at. First.--From
the faint reluctant disavowal and discouragement of Mr O'Connell and his Repeal agitation,
by the leading ex-Ministers during the last session, when emphatically challenged by Sir Robert
Peel to join him in denouncing the attempted dismemberment of the empire, irrespective and
independent of all party consideration, we are prepared to expect that in the ensuing session,
the Opposition will, to a great extent, make common cause with Mr O'Connell, out of mingled
fear, and gratitude, and hope towards their late friend and patron. Such a course will immensely
strengthen the hands of the Queen's Government.

Secondly.--To any thoughtful and independent politician, the present Sovereign state of Ireland
demonstrates the utter impossibility of governing it upon the principle of breaking down or
disparaging the Protestant interest. Such a course would tend only to bloody and interminable
anarchy.

Thirdly.--Ireland's misery springs from social more than political evils; and the greatest
boon that Providence could give her, would be a powerful government inflexibly resolved to
put down agitation.

Lastly.--Can we wonder at the exasperation of the peasantry, who have for so many years had
their money extorted from them, without ever having had, up to this moment, the shadow of an
equivalent? And how long is this disgraceful pillage to go on? But we must conclude. The ensuing
session of parliament may, and probably will, be a stormy one, and harassing to the Government;
but they may prepare to encounter it with cheerful confidence. Their measures, during their
brief tenure of office, have been attended with extraordinary success--and of that both the
sovereign and the country are thoroughly aware, and we entertain high hopes concerning the
future. We expect to see their strong majority in the House of Commons rather augmented than
diminished by reason of the events which have happened during the recess. So long as they pursue
this course, they will be cheered by augmented indications of the national good-will, and of
that implicit and affectionate confidence in their councils, which, we rejoice to know, is
vouchsafed to her Ministers by our gracious Sovereign.