HISTORY OF 1/8th BATTALION
                   SHERWOOD FORESTERS 1914--1919

                      THE SHERWOOD FORESTERS
                         IN THE GREAT WAR
                            1914--1919

                         1/8th BATTALION

                               By

                     CAPTAIN W. C. C. WEETMAN
                       M.C., CROIX DE GUERRE

                      With an introduction by
                 BRIG-GENERAL C. T. SHIPLEY, C.B.

                           NOTTINGHAM
                      THOS. FORMAN & SONS
                              1920

  To
  Our Fallen Comrades

  "In truth they were young Gentlemen, Yeomen and Yeomen's Sons,
  and Artificers of the most brave sort, such as went voluntarily
  to serve of a gaiety and joyalty of mind: all which kind of
  people are the Flower and Force of a Kingdom."

                               Sir John Smyth To Lord Burleigh
                               On Our Men In Flanders IN 1589-90.

INTRODUCTION

It is not only a great honour to have been asked to write an introduction to this book, but
it is a real pleasure to me to be linked in this manner to a Battalion with which I was so
intimately connected for nearly six years and in which I made so many friends, of whom many,
alas, have passed the "great divide."

The Battalion has been lucky in finding in Capt. Weetman an author with such a ready and amusing
pen, and one especially who was in a position to see the workings of the Battalion in almost
every phase of its career and from every standpoint, first as a Company Officer, then as Adjutant
and finally from Brigade Headquarters.

To me, perhaps naturally, the most interesting part of the book is the early chapters. From
the time, in 1911, when I took over the command of what, I was informed by a Staff Officer
qualified to know, was the best Territorial Brigade in the Kingdom, I was a firm believer in
the Territorial Force. But I hardly think that the most hardened optimist would at that time
have thought it possible for a Territorial Division to mobilise and march complete with equipment
and Transport to its Mobilisation area on the sixth day after receiving the order "Mobilise."
The amount of work done by Battalions and Companies was marvellous and only those who experienced
it can have an idea of what it meant.

As for the Training, I don't believe better work was ever done than during those weeks at Harpenden.
True we were lucky in the weather and in the Training area, and the 8th Battalion were specially
lucky in their excellent staff of Sergeant-Instructors. All ranks put their heart into the
work. I remember particularly the excellent work done by the large batch of recruits which
joined the Battalion at that time, including surely as good a lot of young Officers as ever
joined a regiment. The author has described fully the training carried out at Harpenden and
in Essex, and that the time and labour spent in it were not wasted is proved by the manner
in which all ranks so quickly took on their responsibilities in the trenches, and with such
success. That the Territorial Force was in many ways neglected by the Higher Authorities during
those early days is well known, but that the Force amply justified itself is proved by its
actions and was fully recognised by those General Officers under whose command it came. The
following extract from a speech made by Lieut-General Sir C. Fergusson, Commanding II Corps,
to the Brigade at Locre, when it left his command, is worth recording to show the high opinion
he held of our work in front of Kemmel. "No Battalion," he said, "and no Brigade could have
held the lines better than you have done or have done better work than you have done.... Your
work during the last three months is work of which any Brigade and any Battalion might be proud.