"In later times, it appears more transparent and folded in narrow pleats.[Footnote: There is
a picture of an Egyptian gauffering machine in Wilkinson, vol. i., p. 185.] Some danced in
pairs, holding each other's hand; others went through a succession of steps alone, both men
and women; sometimes a man performed a solo to the sound of music or the clapping of hands.

"A favourite figure dance was universally adopted throughout the country, in which two partners,
who were usually men, advanced toward each other, or stood face to face upon one leg, and having
performed a series of movements, retired again in opposite directions, continuing to hold by
one hand and concluding by turning each other round (see fig. 3). That the attitude was very
common is proved by its having been adopted by the hieroglyphic (fig. 4) as the mode of describing
'dance.'"

Many of the positions of the dance illustrated in Gardner Wilkinson are used at the present day.

The ASSYRIANS probably danced as much as the other nations, but amongst the many monuments
that have been discovered there is little dancing shown, and they were evidently more proud
of their campaigns and their hunting than of their dancing. A stern and strong people, although
they undoubtedly had this amusement, we know little about it. Of the Phoenicians, their neighbours,
we have some illustrations of their dance, which was apparently of a serious nature, judging
by the examples which we possess, such as that (fig. 5) from Cyprus representing three figures
in hooded cowls dancing around a piper. It is a dance around a centre, as is also (fig. 6)
that from Idalium in Cyprus. The latter is engraved around a bronze bowl and is evidently a
planet and sun dance before a goddess, in a temple; the sun being the central object around
which they dance, accompanied by the double pipes, the harp, and tabour. The Egyptian origin
of the devotion is apparent in the details, especially in the lotus-smelling goddess (marked
A on fig. 6) who holds the flower in the manner shown in an Egyptian painting in the British
Museum (fig. 7).

From the Phoenicians we have illustrated examples, but no record, whereas from their neighbours
the Hebrews we have ample records in the Scriptures, but no illustrations. It is, however,
most probable that the dance with them had the traditional character of the nations around
them or who had held them captive, and the Philistine dance (fig. 6) may have been of the same
kind as that around the golden calf (Apis) of the desert (Exodus xxxii. v. 19).

When they passed the Red Sea, Miriam and the maidens danced in chorus with singing and the
beating of the timbrel (tambour). (Exodus xv. v. 1.)

King David not only danced before the ark (2 Samuel vi. v. 16), but mentions dancing in the
149th and 150th Psalm. Certain historians also tell us that they had dancing in their ritual
of the seasons. Their dancing seems to have been associated with joy, as we read of "a time
to mourn and a time to dance"; we find (Eccles. iii. v. 4) they had also the pipes: "We have
piped to you and you have not danced" (Matthew xi. v. 17). These dances were evidently executed
by the peoples themselves, and not by public performers.

CHAPTER II.

DANCING WITH THE GREEKS.

With the Greeks, dancing certainly was primarily part of a religious rite; with music it formed
the lyric art. The term, however, with them included all those actions of the body and limbs,
and all expressions and actions of the features and head which suggest ideas; marching, acrobatic
performances, and mimetic action all came into the term.

According to the historians, the Greeks attributed dancing to their deities: Homer makes Apollo
orchestes, or the dancer; and amongst the early dances is that in his honour called the Hyporchema.
Their dances may be divided into sections somewhat thus: (1) those of a religious species,
(2) those of a gymnastic nature, (3) those of a mimetic character, (4) those of the theatre,
such as the chorus, (5) those partly social, partly religious dances, such as the hymeneal,
and (6) chamber dances.

Grown up men and women did not dance together, but the youth of both sexes joined in the Horm[)o]s
or chain dance and the G[)e]r[)a]n[)o]s, or crane (see fig. 11).

According to some authorities, one of the most primitive of the first class, attributed to
Phrygian origin, was the Aloenes, danced to the Phrygian flute by the priests of Cybele in
honour of her daughter Ceres. The dances ultimately celebrated in her cult were numerous: such
as the Anthema, the Bookolos, the Epicredros, and many others, some rustic for labourers, others
of shepherds, etc. Every locality seems to have had a dance of its own. Dances in honour of
Venus were common, she was the patroness of proper and decent dancing; on the contrary, those
in honour of Dionysius or Bacchus degenerated into revelry and obscenity. The Epilenios danced
when the grapes were pressed, and imitated the gathering and pressing. The Anteisterios danced
when the wine was vatted (figs. 8, 9, 10), and the Bahilicos, danced to the sistrus, cymbals,
and tambour, often degenerated into orgies.

r[)a]n[)o]s from a vase in the Museo Borbonico, Naples.]

The G[)e]r[)a]n[)o]s, originally from Delos, is said to have been originated by Theseus in
memory of his escape from the labyrinth of Crete (fig. 12). It was a hand-in-hand dance alternately
of males and females. The dance was led by the representative of Theseus playing the lyre.

Of the second class, the gymnastic, the most important were military dances, the invention
of which was attributed to Minerva; of these the Corybantum was the most remarkable. It was
of Phrygian origin and of a mixed religious, military, and mimetic character; the performers
were armed, and bounded about, springing and clashing their arms and shields to imitate the
Corybantes endeavouring to stifle the cries of the infant Zeus, in Crete. The Pyrrhic (fig.
13), a war dance of Doric origin, was a rapid dance to the double flute, and made to resemble
an action in battle; the Hoplites of Homer is thought to have been of this kind. The Dorians
were very partial to this dance and considered their success in battle due to the celerity
and training of the dance. In subsequent periods it was imitated by female dancers and as a
pas seul. It was also performed in the Panathenaea by Ephebi at the expense of the Choragus,
but this was probably only a mimetic performance and not warlike.

There were many other heroic military dances in honour of Hercules, Theseus, etc.

The chorus, composed of singers and dancers, formed part of the drama, which included the recitation
of some poetic composition, and included gesticulative and mimetic action as well as dancing
and singing. The Dorians were especially fond of this; their poetry was generally choral, and
the Doric forms were preserved by the Athenians in the choral compositions of their drama.

The tragic dance, Emmelia, was solemn; whilst that in comedy, Cordax, was frivolous, and the
siccinis, or dance of Satyrs, was often obscene. They danced to the music of the pipes, the
tambour, the harp, castanets, cymbals, etc. (figs. 14, 15, 16).

In the rites of Dionysius the chorus was fifty and the cithara was used instead of the flute.
From the time of Sophocles it was fifteen, and always had a professed trainer. The choric question
is, however, a subject in itself, and cannot be fairly dealt with here.  The social dances,
and those in honour of the seasons, fire and water, were numerous and generally local; whilst
the chamber dances, professional dancing, the throwing of the Kotabos, and such-like, must
be left to the reader's further study of the authors mentioned in the bibliography at the end
of the work.

It may astonish the reader to know that the funambulist or rope-dancer was very expert with
the Greeks, as also was the acrobat between knives and swords. Animals were also taught to
dance on ropes, even elephants.

The important religious and other dances were not generally composed of professionals. The
greatest men were not above showing their sentiments by dancing. Sophocles danced after Salamis,
and Epaminondas was an expert dancer. There were dancers of all grades, from the distinguished
to the moderate. Distinguished persons even married into excellent positions, if they did not
already occupy them by birth. Philip of Macedon married Larissa, a dancer, and the dancer Aristodemus
was ambassador to his Court. These dancers must not be confounded with those hired to dance
at feasts, etc. (figs. 9, 14 and 18).  

CHAPTER III.

ETRUSCAN-SOUTH ITALIAN, ROMAN DANCING, ETC.

One of the most important nations of antiquity was the Etruscan, inhabiting, according to some
authorities, a dominion from Lombardy to the Alps, and from the Mediterranean to the Adriatic.

Etruria gave a dynasty to Rome in Servius Tullius, who originally was Masterna, an Etruscan.

It is, however, with the dancing that we are dealing. There is little doubt that they were
dancers in every sense; there are many ancient sepulchres in Etruria, with dancing painted
on their walls. Other description than that of the pictures we do not possess, for as yet the
language is a dead letter. There is no doubt, as Gerhardt [Footnote: "Ann. Institut.": 1831,
p. 321.] suggests, that they considered dancing as one of the emblems of joy in a future state,
and that the dead were received with dancing and music in their new home. They danced to the
music of the pipes, the lyre, the castanets of wood, steel, or brass, as is shown in the illustrations
taken from the monuments.

That the Phoenicians and Greeks had at certain times immense influence on the Etruscans is
evident from their relics which we possess (fig. 20).

A characteristic illustration of the dancer is from a painting in the tomb of the Vasi dipinti,
Corneto, which, according to Mr. Dennis, [Footnote: "Etruria," vol. i., p. 380.] belongs to
the archaic period, and is perhaps as early as 600 B.C. It exhibits a stronger Greek influence
than some of the paintings. Fig. 21, showing a military dance to pipes, with other sports,
comes from the Grotta della Scimia, also at Corneto; these show a more purely Etruscan character.

The pretty dancing scene from the Grotta del Triclinio at Corneto is taken from a full-sized
copy in the British Museum, and is of the greatest interest. It is considered to be of the
Greco-Etruscan period, and later than the previous examples (fig. 22).

There is a peculiarity in the attitude of the hands, and of the fingers being kept flat and
close together; it is not a little curious that the modern Japanese dance, as exhibited by
Mme. Sadi Yacca, has this peculiarity, whether the result of ancient tradition or of modern
revival, the writer cannot say.

Almost as interesting as the Etruscan are the illustrations of dancing found in the painted
tombs of the Campagna and Southern Italy, once part of "Magna Grecia"; the figure of a funeral
dance, with the double pipe accompaniments, from a painted tomb near Albanella (fig. 23) may
be as late as 300 B.C., and those in figs. 24, 25 from a tomb near Capua are probably of about
the same period. These Samnite dances appear essentially different from the Etruscan; although
both Greek and Etruscan influence are very evident, they are more solemn and stately. This
may, however, arise from a different national custom.

