"You're a liar," said the Countess genially, although the Earl looked up in alarm when I mentioned
that I could draw money on the papers. Again I bowed deeply to her ladyship, and, putting my
hands in my pockets, I drew out two handfuls of gold, which I strewed up and down the floor
as if I were sowing corn, and each guinea was no more than a grain of it.

"There is the answer to your ladyship's complimentary remark," said I with a flourish of my
empty hands; and, seeing Lady Mary's eyes anxiously fixed on me, I dropped her a wink with
the side of my face farthest from the Countess, at which Lady Mary's eyelids drooped again.
But I might have winked with both eyes for all the Countess, who was staring like one in a
dream at the glittering pieces that lay here and there and gleamed all over the place like
the little yellow devils they were. She seemed struck dumb, and if anyone thinks gold cannot
perform a miracle, there is the proof of it.

"Is it gold?" cried I in a burst of eloquence that charmed even myself, "sure I could sow you
acres with it by the crooking of my little finger from the revenues of my estate at the Old
Head of Kinsale."

"O'Ruddy, O'Ruddy," said Father Donovan very softly and reprovingly, for no one knew better
than him what my ancestral revenues were.

"Ah well, Father," said I, "your reproof is well-timed. A man should not boast, and I'll say
no more of my castles and my acres, though the ships on the sea pay tribute to them. But all
good Saints preserve us, Earl of Westport, if you feel proud to own this poor estate of Brede,
think how little it weighed with my father, who all his life did not take the trouble to come
over and look at it. Need I say more about Kinsale when you hear that? And as for myself, did
I attempt to lay hands on this trivial bit of earth because I held the papers? You know I tossed
them into your daughter's lap because she was the finest-looking girl I have seen since I landed
on these shores."

"Well, well, well, well," growled the Earl, "I admit I have acted rashly and harshly in this
matter, and it is likely I have done wrong to an honourable gentleman, therefore I apologize
for it. Now, what have you to propose?"

"I have to propose myself as the husband of your daughter, Lady Mary, and as for our dowry,
there it is on the floor for the picking up, and I'm content with that much if I get the lady
herself."

His lordship slowly turned his head around and gazed at his daughter, who now was looking full
at me with a frown on her brow. Although I knew I had depressed the old people, I had an uneasy
feeling that I had displeased Lady Mary herself by my impulsive action and my bragging words.
A curious mildness came into the harsh voice of the old Earl, and he said, still looking at
his daughter:

"What does Mary say to this?"

The old woman could not keep her eyes from the gold, which somehow held her tongue still, yet
I knew she was hearing every word that was said, although she made no comment. Lady Mary shook
herself, as if to arouse herself from a trance, then she said in a low voice:

"I can never marry a man I do not love."

"What's that? what's that?" shrieked her mother, turning fiercely round upon her, whereat Lady
Mary took a step back. "Love, love? What nonsense is this I hear? You say you will not marry
this man to save the estate of Brede?"

"I shall marry no man whom I do not love," repeated Lady Mary firmly.

As for me, I stood there, hat in hand, with my jaw dropped, as if Sullivan had given me a stunning
blow in the ear; then the old Earl said sternly:

"I cannot force my daughter: this conference is at an end. The law must decide between us."

