Transcriber's notes:

(1) Numbers following letters (without space) like a2 or were originally
      printed in subscript.

(2) Side-notes were moved as titles to their respective paragraphs.

(3) Chinese characters were denoted as [Ch].

(4) Letters topped by Macron are represented as [=x].

(5) Letters topped by Breve are represented as [)x].

(6) The following typographical errors have been corrected:

    Page 159: "a detailed account of the period (Santiago, 1875); the
      same author's," 'Santiago' amended from 'Sanitago'.

    Page 183: "The more important are those that follow:--," amended
      from 'folllow'.

    Page 183: "The three provinces adjoining the metropolitan province
      of Chih-li--Shan-tung, Shan-si and Ho-nan--have no viceroys over
      them," 'Ho-nan' amended from 'Hon-an'.

    Page 242: "The bats included in this suborder are so numerous in
      genera (to say nothing of species) that only some of the more
      important types can be mentioned).)," superfluous parenthesis
      removed. An immense ambition and the
extraordinary organizing ability shown by its first president, William
R. Harper, determined and characterized the remarkable growth of the
university's first decade of activity. The grounds include about 140
acres. Of these about 60 acres--given in part by Marshall Field and laid
out by Frederick Law Olmsted--border the Midway Plaisance, connecting
Washington and Jackson parks. On these grounds the main part of the
university stands. The buildings are mostly of grey limestone, in Gothic
style, and grouped in quadrangles. The Mitchell tower is a shortened
reproduction of Magdalen tower, Oxford, and the University Commons,
Hutchinson Hall, is a duplicate of Christ Church hall, Oxford.
Dormitories accommodate about a fifth of the students. The quadrangles
include clubs, dining halls, dormitories, gymnasiums, assembly halls,
recitation halls, laboratories and libraries. In the first college year,
1892-1893, there were 698 students; in that of 1907-1908 there were
5038,[2] of whom 2186 were women. There are faculties of arts,
literature, science, divinity,[3] medicine (organized in 1901), law
(1902), education, and commerce and administration. The astronomical
department, the Yerkes Observatory, is located on William's Bay, Lake
Geneva, Wisconsin, about 65 m. from Chicago. It has the largest
refracting telescope in the world (clear aperture 40 in., focal length
about 61 ft.). The Chicago Institute, founded and endowed by Mrs Anita
McCormick Blaine as an independent normal school, became a part of the
university in 1901. The school of education, as a whole, brings under
university influence hundreds of children from kindergarten age upwards
to young manhood and womanhood, apart from the university classes
proper. Chicago was the second university of the country to give its
pedagogical department such scope in the union of theory and practice.
The nucleus of the library (450,000 volumes in 1908) was purchased in
Berlin soon after the university's organization, in one great collection
of 175,000 volumes. Scholarly research has been fostered in every
possible way, and the university press has been active in the
publication of various departmental series and the following
periodicals:--Biblical World, American Journal of Theology, American
Journal of Semitic Languages and Literatures, American Journal of
Sociology, Journal of Political Economy, Modern Philology, Classical
Philology, Classical Journal, Journal of Geology, Astrophysical Journal,
Botanical Gazette, Elementary School Teacher and School Review. The
courses in the College of Commerce and Administration link the
university closely with practical life. In extension work the university
has been active from the beginning, instruction being given not only by
lectures but by correspondence (a novel and unique feature among
American universities); in the decade 1892-1902, 1715 persons were
prepared by the latter method for matriculation in the university (11.6%
of the total number of matriculants in the decade). Extension lectures
were given in twenty-two states. At Chicago the work of the university
is continuous throughout the year: the "summer quarter" is not as in
other American schools a supplement to the teaching year, but an
integral part; and it attracts the teachers of the middle western states
and of the south. In the work of the first two years, known together as
the Junior College, men and women are in the main given separate
instruction; but in the Senior College years unrestricted co-education
prevails. Students are mainly controlled by self-government in small
groups ("the house system"). Relations with "affiliated" (private)
colleges and academies and "co-operating" (public) high-schools also
present interesting features.

The value of the property of the university in 1908 was about $25,578,000. Up to the 30th of
June 1908 it had received from gifts actually paid $29,651,849, of which $22,712,631 were given
by John D. Rockefeller.[4] The value of buildings in 1908 was $4,508,202, of grounds $4,406,191,
and of productive funds $14,186,235. Upon the death of President Harper, Harry Pratt Judson
(b. 1849), then head professor of political science and dean of the faculties of arts, became
acting president, and on the 20th of January 1907 he was elected president.

  See the Decennial Publications of the University (since 1903),
  especially vol. i. for details of history and administration.

FOOTNOTES:

  [1] A small Baptist college of the same name---established in 1855
    on land given by S.A. Douglas--went out of existence in 1886.

  [2] If, however, the total is reckoned on the basis of nine months
    of residence the figure for 1907-1908 would be 3202.

  [3] The Divinity School has a graduate department and three
    under-graduate departments, doing work in English, in Danish and
    Norwegian, and in Swedish. Allied with the Divinity School of the
    University is the "Disciples' Divinity House" (1894), a theological
    school of the Disciples of Christ.

  [4] The words "founded by John D. Rockefeller" follow the title of
    the university on all its letterheads and official documents. Mr
    Rockefeller would not allow his name to be a part of the title, nor
    has he permitted the designation of any building by his name.
    President Harper was selected by him to organize the university, and
    it was his will that the president and two-thirds of the trustees
    should be "always" Baptists. President Harper more than once stated
    most categorically that contrary to prevalent beliefs no donor of
    funds to the university "has ever (1902) by a single word or act
    indicated his dissatisfaction with the instruction given to students
    in the university, or with the public expression of opinion made by
    any officer of the university"; and certainly so far as the public
    press reveals, no other university of the country has had so many
    professors who have in various lines, including economics, expressed
    radical views in public.

CHICANE, the pettifogging subterfuge and delay of sharp law-practitioners, also any deliberate
attempt to gain unfair advantage by petty tricks. A more common English form of the word is
"chicanery." "Chicane" is technically used also as a term in the game of bridge for the points
a player may score if he holds no trumps. The word is French, derived either from chaug[=a]n,
Persian for the stick used in the game of "polo," still played on foot and called chicane in
Languedoc (the military use of chicaner, to take advantage of slight variations in ground,
suits this derivation), or from chic, meaning little or petty, from the Spanish chico, small,
which appears in the phrase "chic à chic," little by little.

CHICHELEY, HENRY (1364-1443), English archbishop, founder of All Souls College, Oxford, was
born at Higham Ferrers, Northamptonshire, in 1363 or 1364. Chicheley told the pope in 1443,
in asking leave to retire from the archbishopric, that he was in his eightieth year. He was
the third and youngest son of Thomas Chicheley, who appears in 1368 in still extant town records
of Higham Ferrers as a suitor in the mayor's court, and in 1381-1382, and again in 1384-1385,
was mayor: in fact, for a dozen years he and Henry Barton, school master of Higham Ferrers
grammar school, and one Richard Brabazon, filled the mayoralty in turns. His occupation does
not appear; but his eldest son, William, is on the earliest extant list (1373) of the Grocers'
Company, London. On the 9th of June 1405 Chicheley was admitted, in succession to his father,
to a burgage in Higham Ferrers. His mother, Agnes Pincheon, is said to have been of gentle
birth. There is therefore no foundation in fact for the silly story (copied into the Diet.
Nat. Biog. from a local historian, J. Cole, Wellingborough, 1838) that Henry Chicheley was
picked up by William of Wykeham when he was a poor ploughboy "eating his scanty meal off his
mother's lap," whatever that means. The story was unknown to Arthur Duck, fellow of All Souls,
who wrote Chicheley's life in 1617. It is only the usual attempt, as in the cases of Whittington,
Wolsey and Gresham, to exaggerate the rise of a successful man. The first recorded appearance
of Henry Chicheley himself is at New College, Oxford, as Checheley, eighth among the undergraduate
fellows, in July 1387, in the earliest extant hall-book, which contains weekly lists of those
dining in Hall. It is clear from Chicheley's position in the list, with eleven fellows and
eight scholars, or probationer-fellows, below him, that this entry does not mark his first
appearance in the college, which had been going on since 1375 at least, and was chartered in
1379. He must have come from Winchester College in one of the earliest batches of scholars
from that college, the sole feeder of New College, not from St John Baptist College, Winchester,
as guessed by Dr William Hunt in the Dict. Nat. Biog. (and repeated in Mr Grant Robertson's
History of All Souls College) to cover the mistaken supposition that St Mary's College was
not founded till 1393. St Mary's College was in fact formally founded in 1382, and the school
had been going on since 1373 (A.F. Leach, History of Winchester College), while no such college
as St John's College at Winchester ever existed.

Chicheley appears in the Hall-books of New College up to the year 1392/93, when he was a B.A.
and was absent for ten weeks from about the 6th of December to the 6th of March, presumably
for the purpose of his ordination as a sub-deacon, which was performed by the bishop of Derry,
acting as suffragan to the bishop of London. He was then already beneficed, receiving a royal
ratification of his estate as parson of Llanvarchell in the diocese of St Asaph on the 20th
of March 1391/92 (Cal. Pat. Rolls). In the Hall-book, marked 1393/94, but really for 1394/95,
Chicheley's name does not appear. He had then left Oxford and gone up to London to practise
as an advocate in the principal ecclesiastical court, the court of arches. His rise was rapid.
Already on the 8th of February 1395/96 he was on a commission with several knights and clerks
to hear an appeal in a case of John Molton, Esquire v. John Shawe, citizen of London, from
Sir John Cheyne, kt., sitting for the constable of England in a court of chivalry. Like other
ecclesiastical lawyers and civil servants of the day; he was paid with ecclesiastical preferments.
On the 13th of April 1396 he obtained ratification of the parsonage of St Stephen's, Walbrook,
presented on the 30th of March by the abbot of Colchester, no doubt through his brother Robert,
who restored the church and increased its endowment. In 1397 he was made archdeacon of Dorset
by Richard Mitford, bishop of Salisbury, but litigation was still going on about it in the
papal court till the 27th of June 1399, when the pope extinguished the suit, imposing perpetual
silence on Nicholas Bubwith, master of the rolls, his opponent. In the first year of Henry
IV. Chicheley was parson of Sherston, Wiltshire, and prebendary of Nantgwyly in the college
of Abergwilly, North Wales; on the 23rd of February 1401/2, now called doctor of laws, he was
pardoned for bringing in, and allowed to use, a bull of the pope "providing" him to the chancellorship
of Salisbury cathedral, and canonries in the nuns' churches of Shaftesbury and Wilton in that
diocese; and on the 9th of January 1402/3 he was archdeacon of Salisbury. This year his brother
Robert was senior sheriff of London. On the 7th of May 1404, Pope Boniface IX. provided him
to a prebend at Lincoln, notwithstanding he already held prebends at Salisbury, Lichfield,
St Martin's-le-Grand and Abergwyly, and the living of Brington. On the 9th of January 1405
he found time to attend a court at Higham Ferrers and be admitted to a burgage there. In July
1405 Chicheley began a diplomatic career by a mission to the new Roman pope Innocent VII.,
who was professing his desire to end the schism in the papacy by resignation, if his French
rival at Avignon would do likewise. Next year, on the 5th of October 1406, he was sent with
Sir John Cheyne to Paris to arrange a lasting peace and the marriage of Prince Henry with the
French princess Marie, which was frustrated by her becoming a nun at Poissy next year. In 1406
renewed efforts were made to stop the schism, and Chicheley was one of the envoys sent to the
new pope Gregory XII. Here he utilized his opportunities. On the 31st of August 1407 Guy Mone
(he is always so spelt and not Mohun, and was probably from one of the Hampshire Meons; there
was a John Mone of Havant admitted a Winchester scholar in 1397), bishop of St David's, died,
and on the 12th of October 1407 Chicheley was by the pope provided to the bishopric of St David's.
Another bull the same day gave him the right to hold all his benefices with the bishopric.

At Siena in July 1408 he and Sir John Cheyne, as English envoys, were received by Gregory XII.
with special honour, and Bishop Repingdon of Lincoln, ex-Wycliffite, was one of the new batch
of cardinals created on the 18th of September 1408, most of Gregory's cardinals having deserted
him. These, together with Benedict's revolting cardinals, summoned a general council at Pisa.
In November 1408 Chicheley was back at Westminster, when Henry IV. received the cardinal archbishop
of Bordeaux and determined to support the cardinals at Pisa against both popes. In January
1409 Chicheley was named with Bishop Hallum of Salisbury and the prior of Canterbury to represent
the Southern Convocation at the council, which opened on the 25th of March 1409, arriving on
the 24th of April. Obedience was withdrawn from both the existing popes, and on the 26th of
June a new pope elected instead of them. Chicheley and the other envoys were received on their
return as saviours of the world; though the result was summed up by a contemporary as trischism
instead of schism, and the Church as giving three husbands instead of two. Chicheley now became
the subject of a leading case, the court of king's bench deciding, after arguments reheard
in three successive terms, that he could not hold his previous benefices with the bishopric,
and that, spite of the maxim Papa potest omnia, a papal bull could not supersede the law of
the land (Year-book ii. H. iv. 37, 59, 79). Accordingly he had to resign livings and canonries
wholesale (April 28, 1410). As, however, he had obtained a bull (August 20, 1409) enabling
him to appoint his successors to the vacated preferments, including his nephew William, though
still an undergraduate and not in orders, to the chancellorship of Salisbury, and a prebend
at Lichfield, he did not go empty away. In May 1410 he went again on an embassy to France;
on the 11th of September 1411 he headed a mission to discuss Henry V.'s marriage with a daughter
of the duke of Burgundy; and he was again there in November. In the interval Chicheley found
time to visit his diocese for the first time and be enthroned at St David's on the 11th of
May 1411. He was with the English force under the earl of Arundel which accompanied the duke
of Burgundy to Paris in October 1411 and there defeated the Armagnacs, an exploit which revealed
to England the weakness of the French. On the 30th of November 1411 Chicheley, with two other
bishops and three earls and the prince of Wales, knelt to the king to receive public thanks
for their administration. That he was in high favour with Henry V. is shown by his being sent
with the earl of Warwick to France in July 1413 to conclude peace. Immediately after the death
of archbishop Arundel he was nominated by the king to the archbishopric, elected on the 4th
of March, translated by papal bull on the 28th of April, and received the pall without going
to Rome for it on the 24th of July.

These dates are important as they help to save Chicheley from the charge, versified by Shakespeare
(Henry V. act i. sc. 2) from Hall's Chronicle, of having tempted Henry V. into the conquest
of France for the sake of diverting parliament from the disendowment of the Church. There is
no contemporary authority for the charge, which seems to appear first in Redman's rhetorical
history of Henry V., written in 1540 with an eye to the political situation at that time. As
a matter of fact, the parliament at Leicester, in which the speeches were supposed to have
been made, began on the 30th of April 1414 before Chicheley was archbishop. The rolls of parliament
show that he was not present in the parliament at all. Moreover parliament was so far from
pressing disendowment that on the petition of the Commons it passed a savage act against the
heresies "commonly called Lollardry" which "aimed at the destruction of the king and all temporal
estates," making Lollards felons and ordering every justice of the peace to hunt down their
schools, conventicles, congregations and confederacies.

In his capacity of archbishop, Chicheley remained what he had always been chiefly, the lawyer
and diplomatist. He was present at the siege of Rouen, and the king committed to him personally
the negotiations for the surrender of the city in January 1419 and for the marriage of Katherine.
He crowned Katherine at Westminster (20th February 1421), and on the 6th of December baptized
her child Henry VI. He was of course a persecutor of heretics. No one could have attained or
kept the position of archbishop at the time without being so. So he presided at the trial of
John Claydon, Skinner and citizen of London, who after five years' imprisonment at various
times had made public abjuration before the late archbishop, Arundel, but now was found in
possession of a book in English called The Lanterne of Light, which contained the heinous heresy
that the principal cause of the persecution of Christians was the illegal retention by priests
of the goods of this world, and that archbishops and bishops were the special seats of antichrist.
As a relapsed heretic, he was "left to the secular arm" by Chicheley. On the 1st of July 1416
Chicheley directed a half-yearly inquisition by archdeacons to hunt out heretics. On the 12th
of February 1420 proceedings were begun before him against William Taylor, priest, who had
been for fourteen years excommunicated for heresy, and was now degraded and burnt for saying
that prayers ought not to be addressed to saints, but only to God. A striking contrast was
exhibited in October 1424, when a Stamford friar, John Russell, who had preached that any religious
potest concumbere cum muliere and not mortally sin, was sentenced only to retract his doctrine.
Further persecutions of a whole batch of Lollards took place in 1428. The records of convocation
in Chicheley's time are a curious mixture of persecutions for heresy, which largely consisted
in attacks on clerical endowments, with negotiations with the ministers of the crown for the
object of cutting down to the lowest level the clerical contributions to the public revenues
in respect of their endowments. Chicheley was tenacious of the privileges of his see, and this
involved him in a constant struggle with Henry Beaufort, bishop of Winchester. In 1418, while
Henry V. was alive, he successfully protested against Beaufort's being made a cardinal and
legate a latere to supersede the legatine jurisdiction of Canterbury. But during the regency,
after Henry VI.'s accession, Beaufort was successful, and in 1426 became cardinal and legate.
This brought Chicheley into collision with Martin V. The struggle between them has been represented
as one of a patriotic archbishop resisting the encroachments of the papacy on the Church of
England. In point of fact it was almost wholly personal, and was rather an incident in the
rivalry between the duke of Gloucester and his half-brother, Cardinal Beaufort, than one involving
any principle. Chicheley, by appointing a jubilee to be held at Canterbury in 1420, "after
the manner of the Jubilee ordained by the Popes," threatened to divert the profits from pilgrims
from Rome to Canterbury. A ferocious letter from the pope to the papal nuncios, on the 19th
of March 1423, denounced the proceeding as calculated "to ensnare simple souls and extort from
them a profane reward, thereby setting up themselves against the apostolic see and the Roman
pontiff, to whom alone so great a faculty has been granted by God" (Cal. Pap. Reg. vii. 12).
Chicheley also incurred the papal wrath by opposing the system of papal provision which diverted
patronage from English to Italian hands, but the immediate occasion was to prevent the introduction
of the bulls making Beaufort a cardinal. Chicheley had been careful enough to obtain "Papal
provisions" for himself, his pluralities, his bishopric and archbishopric.

But, after all, it is not as archbishop or statesman, persecutor, papalist or antipapalist
that Chicheley is remembered, but for his educational foundations. He endowed a hutch, i.e.
chest or loan-fund for poor scholars at New College, and another for the university of Oxford
at large. He founded no less than three colleges, two at Oxford, one at Higham Ferrers, while
there is reason to believe that he suggested and inspired the foundation of Eton and of King's
College. His first college at Oxford, in perishing, gave birth to St John's College, which
now holds its site. This was St Bernard's College, founded by Chicheley under licence in mortmain
in 1437 for Cistercian monks, on the model of Gloucester Hall and Durham College for the southern
and northern Benedictines. Nothing more than a site and building was required by way of endowment,
as the young monks, who were sent there to study under a provisor, were supported by the houses
of the order to which they belonged. The site was five acres, and the building is described
in the letters patent "as a fitting and noble college mansion in honour of the most glorious
Virgin Mary and St Bernard in Northgates Street outside the Northgate of Oxford." It was suppressed
with the Cistercian abbeys in 1539, and granted on the 11th of December 1546 to Christ Church,
Oxford, who sold it to Sir Thomas Pope in 1553 for St John's College.

The college at Higham Ferrers was a much earlier design. On the 2nd of May 1422 Henry V., in
right of the duchy of Lancaster, "hearing that Chicheley inflamed by the pious fervour of devotion
intended to enlarge divine service and other works of piety at Higham Ferrers, in consideration
of his fruitful services, often crossing the seas, yielding to no toils, dangers or expenses
... especially in the conclusion of the present final peace with our dearest father the king
of France," granted for 300 marks (£200) licence to found, on three acres at Higham Ferrers,
a perpetual college of eight chaplains and four clerks, of whom one was to teach grammar and
the other song ... "and six choristers to pray for himself and wife and for Henry IV. and his
wife Mary ... and to acquire the alien priory of Merseye in Essex late belonging to St Ouen's,
Rouen," as endowment. A papal bull having also been obtained, on the 28th of August 1425, the
archbishop, in the course of a visitation of Lincoln diocese, executed his letters patent founding
the college, dedicating it to the Virgin, St Thomas à Becket and St Edward the Confessor, and
handed over the buildings to its members, the vicar of Higham Ferrers being made the first
master or warden. He further endowed it in 1434 with lands in Bedfordshire and Huntingdonshire,
and his brothers, William and Robert, gave some houses in London in 1427 and 1438. The foundation
was closely modelled on Winchester College, with its warden and fellows, its grammar and song
schoolmasters, but a step in advance was made by the masters being made fellows and so members
of the governing body. Attached was also a bede or almshouse for twelve poor men. Both school
and almshouse had existed before, and this was merely an additional endowment. The whole endowment
was in 1535 worth some £200 a year, about a fifth of that of Winchester College. Unfortunately,
All Souls being a later foundation, the college at Higham Ferrers was not affiliated to it,
and so fell with other colleges not part of the universities. On the 18th of July 1542 it was
surrendered to Henry VIII., and its possessions granted to Robert Dacres on condition of maintaining
the grammar school and paying the master £10 a year, the same salary as the headmasters of
Winchester and Eton, and maintaining the almshouse. Both still exist, but the school has been
deprived of its house, and the Fitzwilliam family, who now own the lands, still continue to
pay only £10 a year.

All Souls College was considerably later. The patent for it, dated 20th of May 1438, is for
a warden and 20 scholars, to be called "the Warden and College of the souls of all the faithful
departed," to study and pray "for the soul of King Henry VI. and the souls of Henry V., Thomas,
duke of Clarence, and all the dukes, earls, barons, knights, squires and other nobles and subjects
of our father who during the time and in the service of our father and ourselves ended their
lives in the wars of the kingdom of France, and for the souls of all the faithful departed."
For this, the king granted Berford's Hall, formerly Charleston's Inn, which Chicheley's trustees
had granted to him so as to obtain a royal grant and indefeasible title. Richard Andrews, the
king's secretary, like Chicheley himself a scholar of Winchester and fellow of New College,
was named as first warden. A papal bull for the college was obtained on the 21st of June 1439;
and further patents for endowments from the 11th of May 1441 to the 28th of January 1443, when
a general confirmation charter was obtained, for which £1000 (£30,000 at least of our money)
was paid. It is commonly represented that the endowment was wholly derived from alien priories
bought by Chicheley from the crown. In truth, not so large a proportion of the endowment of
All Souls was derived from this source as was that of New College. The only alien priories
granted were Abberbury in Oxfordshire, Wedon Pinkney in Northamptonshire, Romney in Kent, and
St Clare and Llangenith in Wales, all very small affairs, single manors and rectories, and
these did not form a quarter of the whole endowment. The rest, particularly the manor of Edgware,
which made the fortune of the college, was bought from private owners. Early in 1443 the college
was opened by Chicheley with four bishops in state. The statutes, not drawn up until the end
of April 1443, raised the number of the college to forty. Like the college buildings, they
are almost an exact copy of those of New College, mutatis mutandis. The college is sometimes
described as being different from other colleges in being merely a large chantry to pray for
the souls of the dead warriors. But it was no more a chantry than the other colleges, all of
which, like the monasteries and collegiate churches, were to pray for their founders' and other
specified souls. Indeed, All Souls was more of a lay foundation than its model. For while at
New College only twenty out of seventy fellows were to study law instead of arts, philosophy
and theology, at All Souls College sixteen were to be "jurists" and only twenty-four "artists";
and while at New College there were ten chaplains and three clerks necessarily, at All Souls
the number was not defined but left optional; so that there are now only one chaplain and four
bible clerks.

Ten days after he sealed the statutes, on the 12th of April 1443, Chicheley died and was buried
in Canterbury cathedral on the north side of the choir, under a fine effigy of himself erected
in his lifetime. There is what looks like an excellent contemporary portrait in one of the
windows of All Souls College, which is figured in the Victoria County History for Hampshire,
ii. 262.      (A. F. L.)

CHICHEN-ITZA, or CHICHEN, an ancient ruined city of Yucatan, Mexico, situated 22 m. W. of Valladolid.
The name is derived from that of the Itza, a tribe of the great Mayan stock, which formerly
inhabited the city, and chichen, having reference probably to two wells or pools which doubtless
originally supplied the inhabitants with water and are still in existence. The history of the
city is unknown, though it is regarded as probable that it preserved its independence long
after the Spaniards had taken possession of the rest of the district. The area covered by the
ruins is approximately 1 sq. m., and other remains are found in the neighbouring forest. (See
CENTRAL AMERICA: Archaeology.)

CHICHESTER OF BELFAST, ARTHUR CHICHESTER, BARON (1563-1625), lord-deputy of Ireland, second
son of Sir John Chichester of Raleigh, Devonshire, by Gertrude, daughter of Sir William Courtenay
of Powderham, was born at Raleigh in May 1563, and was educated at Exeter College, Oxford.
He commanded a ship against the Spanish Armada in 1588, and is said to have served under Drake
in his expedition of 1595. Having seen further service abroad, he was sent to Ireland at the
end of 1598, and was appointed by the earl of Essex to the governorship of Carrickfergus. When
Essex returned to England, Chichester rendered valuable service under Mountjoy in the war against
the rebellious earl of Tyrone, and in 1601 Mountjoy recommended him to Cecil in terms of the
highest praise as the fittest person to be entrusted with the government of Ulster. On the
15th of October 1604 Chichester was appointed lord-deputy of Ireland. He announced his policy
in a proclamation wherein he abolished the semi-feudal rights of the native Irish chieftains,
substituting for them fixed dues, while their tenants were to become dependent "wholly and
immediately upon his majesty." Tyrone and other Irish clan chieftains resented this summary
interference with their ancient social organization, and their resistance was strengthened
by the ill-advised measures against the Roman Catholics which Chichester was compelled to take
by the orders of the English ministers. He himself was moderate and enlightened in his views
on this matter, and it was through his influence that the harshness of the anti-Catholic policy
was relaxed in 1607. Meantime his difficulties with the Irish tribal leaders remained unsolved.
But in 1607, by "the flight of the Earls" (see O'NEILL), he was relieved of the presence of
the two formidable Ulster chieftains, the earls of Tyrone and Tyrconnell. Chichester's policy
for dealing with the situation thus created was to divide the lands of the fugitive earls among
Irishmen of standing and character; but the plantation of Ulster as actually carried out was
much less favourable and just to the native population than the lord-deputy desired. In 1613
Chichester was raised to the peerage as Baron Chichester of Belfast, and in the following year
he went to England to give an account of the state of Ireland. On his return to Ireland he
again attempted to moderate the persecuting policy against the Irish Catholics which he was
instructed to enforce; and although he was to some extent successful, it was probably owing
to his opposition to this policy that he was recalled in November 1614. The king, however,
told him "You may rest assured that you do leave that place with our very good grace and acceptation
of your services"; and he was given the post of lord-treasurer of Ireland. After living in
retirement for some years, Chichester was employed abroad in 1622; in the following year he
became a member of the privy council. He died on the 19th of February 1625 and was buried at
Carrickfergus.

Lord Chichester married Lettice, daughter of Sir John Perrot and widow of Walter Vaughan of
Golden Grove. He had no children, and his title became extinct at his death. The heir to his
estates was his brother Sir Edward Chichester (d. 1648), governor of Carrickfergus, who in
1625 was created Baron Chichester of Belfast and Viscount Chichester of Carrickfergus. This
nobleman's eldest son Arthur (1606-1675), who distinguished himself as Colonel Chichester in
the suppression of the rebellion of 1641, was created earl of Donegall in 1647, and was succeeded
in his titles by his nephew, whose great-grandson, Arthur, 5th earl of Donegall, was created
Baron Fisherwick in the peerage of Great Britain (the other family titles being in the peerage
of Ireland) in 1790, and earl of Belfast and marquess of Donegall in the peerage of Ireland
in 1791. The present marquess of Donegall is his descendant.

  See S.R. Gardiner in Dict. Nat. Biog. and History of England,
  1603-1642 (London, 1883); Fynes Moryson, History of Ireland,
  1599-1603 (Dublin, 1735). It lies in a plain
at the foot of a spur of the South Downs, a mile from the head of
Chichester Harbour, an inlet of the English Channel. The cathedral
church of the Holy Trinity was founded towards the close of the 11th
century, after the see had been removed to Chichester from Selsey in
1075. The first church was consecrated in 1108, but fires in 1114 and
1187 caused building to continue steadily until the close of the 13th
century. Bishop Ralph Luffa (1091-1123) was the first great builder, and
was followed by Seffrid II. (1180-1204). Norman work appears in the nave
(arcade and triforium), choir (arcade) and elsewhere; but there is much
very beautiful Early English work, the choir above the arcade and the
eastern part being especially fine. The nave is remarkable in having
double aisles on each side, the outer pair being of the 13th century.
The church is also unique among English cathedrals in the possession of
a detached campanile, a massive and beautiful Perpendicular structure
with the top storey octagonal. The principal modern restorations are the
upper part of the north-west tower, which copies the Early English work
of that on the south-west; and the fine central tower and spire, which
had been erected at different periods in the 14th century, but
collapsed, doing little damage to the fabric, in 1861. Under the
direction of Sir Gilbert Scott and others they were reconstructed with
scrupulous care in preserving the original plan. The Lady chapel at the
east end is in the main early Decorated, but greatly restored; the
library is a fine late Norman vaulted room; the cloisters are
Perpendicular and well restored; and the bishop's palace retains an
Early English chapel. The cathedral is 393 ft. long within, 131 ft.
across the transepts, and 90 ft. across the nave with its double aisles.
The height of the spire is 277 ft.

At the junction of the four main streets of the town stands the market cross, an exquisite
octagonal structure in ornate Perpendicular style, built by Bishop Story, c. 1500, perhaps
the finest of its kind in the United Kingdom. The hospital of St Mary was founded in the 12th
century, but the existing buildings are in a style transitional from Early English to Decorated.
Its use as an almshouse is maintained. Other ancient buildings are the churches of St Olave,
in the construction of which Roman materials were used; and of St Andrew, where is the tomb
of the poet William Collins, whose memorial with others by the sculptor Flaxman is in the cathedral;
the Guildhall, formerly a Grey Friars' chapel, of the 13th century; the Canon Gate leading
into the cathedral close; and the Vicars College. The city retains a great part of its ancient
walls, which have a circuit of about a mile and a half, and, at least in part, follow the line
of Roman fortifications. The principal modern buildings, besides churches and chapels, are
the council house, corn exchange, market house, and museum of the Chichester Literary Society.
The grammar school was founded in 1497 by Bishop Story. There is a large cattle market, and
the town has a considerable agricultural trade, with breweries and tanneries. A canal connects
with Chichester Harbour. The diocese includes the whole county of Sussex except a few parishes,
with very small portions of Kent and Surrey. The municipal borough is under a mayor, six aldermen
and eighteen councillors. Area, 1538 acres.

The Romano-British town on this site was perhaps Regnum or Regni. Many inscriptions, pottery,
coins, &c., have been found, and part of the medieval walls contain a Roman cave. An interesting
inscription from this site is preserved at Goodwood. Situated on one Roman road in direct connexion
with London and another leading from east to west, Chichester (Cissaceaster, Cicestre) remained
of considerable importance under the South Saxon kings. In 967 King Edgar established a mint
here. Though Domesday Book speaks of one hundred and forty-two burgages in Chichester and a
charter of Henry I. mentions the borough, the earliest extant charter is that granted by Stephen,
confirming to the burgesses their customs and rights of the borough and gild merchant as they
had them in the time of his grandfather. This was confirmed by Henry II. Under Henry III. the
fee farm rent was £38: 10s., but this was reduced by a charter of 10 Edward II. to £36, the
customs of wool, hides and skins being reserved to the king. Edward III. directed that the
Sussex county court should be held at Chichester, and this was confirmed in the following year.
Confirmations of the previous charters were also granted by Edward III., Richard II., Henry
VI., Edward IV., and Henry VII, who gave the mayor and citizens cognizance of all kinds of
pleas of assize touching lands and hereditaments of freehold tenure. A court leet, court of
record and bailiffs' court of liberties still exist. The charters were also confirmed by Henry
VIII., Edward VI., Philip and Mary, and Elizabeth. In 1604 the city was incorporated under
a mayor and aldermen. Since 1295, when it first returned a member, Chichester has been regularly
represented in parliament. Throughout the middle ages Chichester was a place of great commercial
importance, Edward III. establishing a wool staple here in 1348. Fairs were granted by Henry
I. and Henry VII, Fuller mentions the Wednesday market as being famous for corn, while Camden
speaks of that on Saturday as the greatest for fish in the county. The markets and a fair on
the 20th of October are still held.

  See Victoria County History, Sussex; Alexander Hay, History of
  Chichester (Chichester, 1804).

CHICKAMAUGA CREEK, a small tributary of the Tennessee river, which it joins near Chattanooga,
Tennessee, U.S.A. It gives its name to the great battle of Chickamauga in the American Civil
War, fought on the 19-20th of September 1863, between the Federal army of the Cumberland under
Major-General W.S. Rosecrans and the Confederate army under General Braxton Bragg. For the
general operations of Rosecrans' army in 1863 see AMERICAN CIVIL WAR. A successful war of manoeuvre
had brought the army of the Cumberland from Murfreesboro to Decherd, Tenn., and Bragg's army
lay on the Tennessee at and above Chattanooga. Rosecrans was expected by the enemy to manoeuvre
so as to gain touch with the Union forces in the upper Tennessee valley, but he formed an entirely
different plan of operations. One part of the army demonstrated in front of Chattanooga, and
the main body secretly crossed the river about Stevenson and Bridgeport (September 4th). The
country was mountainous, the roads few and poor, and the Federals had to take full supplies
of food, forage and ammunition with them, but Rosecrans was an able commander, his troops were
in good hands, and he accepted the risks involved. These were intensified by the want of good
maps, and, in the event, at one moment the army was placed in a position of great danger. A
corps under A. McD. McCook moved south-eastward across the ridges to Alpine, another under
Thomas marched via Trenton on McLemore's Cove. The presence of Federal masses in Lookout Valley
caused Bragg to abandon Chattanooga at once, and the object of the manoeuvre was thus accomplished;
but owing to the want of good maps the Union army was at the same time exposed to great danger.
The head of Thomas's column was engaged at Dug Gap, on the 11th, against the flank guard of
Bragg's army, and at the time McCook was far away to the south, and Crittenden's corps, which
had occupied Chattanooga on the 9th, was also at a distance. Thomas was isolated, but Rosecrans,
like every other commander under whom he served, placed unbounded confidence in his tenacity,
and if Bragg was wrong in neglecting to attack him on the 14th, subsequent events went far
to disarm criticism. By the 18th of September Rosecrans had at last collected his army on Chickamauga
Creek covering Chattanooga. But Bragg had now received heavy reinforcements, and lay, concentrated
for battle, on the other side of the Creek.

The terrain of the battle of Chickamauga (19th-20th of September) had little influence on its
course. Both armies lay in the plain, the two lines roughly parallel. Bragg's intention was
to force his attack home on Rosecrans' left wing, thus cutting him off from Chattanooga and
throwing him back into the mountain country whence he had come. On the 19th a serious action
took place between the Confederate right and Rosecrans' left under Thomas. On the 20th the
real battle began. The Confederates, in accordance with Bragg's plans, pressed hard upon Thomas,
to whom Rosecrans sent reinforcements. One of the divisions detached from the centre for this
purpose was by inadvertence taken out of the first line, and before the gap could be filled
the Confederate central attack, led by Longstreet and Hood, the fighting generals of Lee's
army, and carried out by veteran troops from the Virginian battlefields, cut the Federal army
in two. McCook's army corps, isolated on the Federal right, was speedily routed, and the centre
shared its fate. Rosecrans himself was swept off the field in the rout of half of his army.
But Thomas was unshaken. He re-formed the left wing in a semicircle, and aided by a few fresh
brigades from Rossville, resisted for six hours the efforts of the whole Confederate army.
Rosecrans in the meantime was rallying the fugitives far to the rear near Chattanooga itself.
The fury of Bragg's assault spent itself uselessly on the heroic divisions under Thomas, who
remained on the field till night and then withdrew in good order to Rossville. Here he remained
on the 21st, imposing respect upon the victors. On the 22nd Rosecrans had re-established order,
and Thomas fell back quietly to Chattanooga, whither Bragg slowly pursued. For the subsequent
events of the campaign see CHATTANOOGA. The losses in the battle bear witness to a severity
in the fighting unusual even in the American Civil War. Of 70,000 Confederates engaged at least
18,000 were killed and wounded, and the Federals lost 16,000 out of about 57,000. The battlefield
has been converted into a national park, and was used during the Spanish American War (1898)
as a place of mobilization for the U.S. volunteers.

CHICKASAWS, a tribe of North American Indians of Muskhogean stock, now settled in the western
part of Oklahoma. Their former range was northern Mississippi and portions of Tennessee. According
to their own tradition and the evidence of philology, they are closely connected with the Creeks
and Choctaws; and they believe that they emigrated with these tribes from the west, crossed
the Mississippi, and settled in the district that now forms the north-east part of the state
of that name. Here they were visited by De Soto in 1540. From the first they were hostile to
the French colonists. With the English, on the other hand, their relations were more satisfactory.
In 1786 they made a treaty with the United States; and in 1793 they assisted the whites in
their operations against the Creeks. In the early years of the 19th century part of their territory
was ceded for certain annuities, and a portion of the tribe migrated to Arkansas; and in 1832-1834,
the remainder, amounting to about 3600, surrendered to the United States the 6,442,400 acres
of which they were still possessed, and entered into a treaty with the Choctaws for incorporation
with that tribe. In 1855, however, they effected a separation of this union, with which they
had soon grown dissatisfied, and by payment to the Choctaws of $150,000 obtained a complete
right to their present territory. In the Civil War they joined the Confederates and suffered
in consequence; but their rights were restored by the treaty of 1865. In 1866 they surrendered
7,000,000 acres; and in 1873 they adopted their former slaves. They had an independent government
consisting of a governor, a senate, and a house of representatives; but tribal government virtually
ceased in 1906. The Chickasaws of pure or mixed blood numbered 4826 in 1900, and with the fully
admitted "citizens," i.e. the freed slaves and adopted whites, the whole nation amounted to
some 10,000.

  See Handbook of American Indians (Washington, 1907).

CHICKASHA, a city and the county-seat of Grady county, Oklahoma, U.S.A., near the Washita river,
about 45 m. S.S.W. of Oklahoma city. Pop. (1900) 3209; (1907) 7862, including 1643 negroes;
(1910) 10,320. Chickasha is served by the St Louis & San Francisco, the Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific and the Oklahoma Central railways. It is the trade centre of a very fertile section
of the Washita Valley, whose principal products are Indian corn, cotton, fruits and vegetables
and live-stock. The city has various manufactures, including flour, cotton-seed oil, lumber,
furniture and farm implements. Chickasha was founded in 1892 and was chartered as a city in 1899.

CHICKEN-POX (Syn. varicella, a Low Latin diminutive of variola), a specific contagious disease
characterized by an eruption of vesicles in the skin. The disease usually occurs in epidemics,
and is one of childhood, the patients being generally between two and six years old. The incubation
period is from ten to fifteen days; there are practically no prodromal symptoms, the only indication
being a slight amount of fever for some twenty-four hours, after which the eruption makes its
appearance. A number of raised red papules appear on the trunk, either on the back or chest;
in from twelve to twenty-four hours these develop into tense vesicles filled with a clear fluid,
which in another thirty-six hours or so becomes opalescent. During the fourth day these vesicles
dry and shrivel up, and the scabs fall off, leaving as a rule no scar. Fresh spots appear during
the first three days, so that at the end of that time they can be seen in all stages of growth
and decay. The eruption is most marked on the chest, but it also occurs on the face and limbs,
and on the mucous membrane of the mouth and palate. The temperature begins to fall after the
appearance of the rash, but a certain slight amount may persist after the disappearance of
all symptoms. It rarely rises above 102 F. The disease runs a very favourable course in the
majority of cases, and after effects are rare. One attack does not confer immunity, and in
numerous cases one individual has had three attacks. The diet should be light, and the patient
should be prevented from scratching the spots, which would lead to ulceration and scarring.
After the first few days there is no necessity to confine the patient to bed. In the large
majority of cases, it is easy to distinguish the disease from smallpox, but in certain patients
it is very difficult. The chief points in the differential diagnosis are as follows. (1) In
chicken-pox the rash is distributed chiefly on the trunk, and less on the limbs. (2) Some of
the vesicles are oval, whereas in smallpox they are always hemispherical. They are also more
superficial, and have not at the outset the hard shotty feeling of the more virulent disease.
(3) The vesicles attain their full growth within twelve to twenty-four hours. (4) The pustules
are usually monocular. (5) There is no prodromal period.

CHICLANA, or CHICLANA DE LA FRONTERA, a town of southern Spain, in the province of Cadiz, 12
m. by rail S.E. of Cadiz. Pop. (1900) 10,868. Chiclana occupies a fertile valley, watered by
the river Lirio, and sheltered, on the north and south, by low hills covered with vines and
plantations. It faces the gulf of Cadiz, 3 m. W., and, from its mild climate and pleasant surroundings,
is the favourite summer residence of the richer Cadiz merchants; its hot mineral springs also
attract many visitors. In the neighbourhood are the Roman ruins of Chiclana la Vieja, the town
of Medina Sidonia (q.v.), and, about 5 m. S., the battlefield of Barrosa, where the British
under Sir Thomas Graham (Lord Lynedoch) defeated the French under Marshal Victor, on the 5th
of March 1811.

CHICOPEE, a city of Hampden county, Massachusetts, U.S.A., situated on the E. side of the Connecticut
river, at the mouth of the Chicopee river, immediately N. of Springfield. Pop. (1890) 14,050;
(1900) 19,167, of whom 8139 were foreign-born; (1910, census) 25,401. Chicopee is served by
the Boston & Maine railway. The city, which has an area of about 25 sq. m., contains five villages.
Chicopee Center, Chicopee Falls, Willimansett, Fairview and Aldenville. Chicopee Falls lies
on both sides of the Chicopee river, which falls some 70 ft. in less than 3 m. and furnishes
valuable power for manufactories. The most important products are cotton goods (two large factories
having, together, about 200,000 spindles), fire-arms (especially the Stevens rifles), tools,
rubber and elastic goods, sporting goods, swords, automobiles and agricultural implements.
Here, too, is a bronze statuary foundry, in which some of the finest monuments, bronze doors,
&c., in the country have been cast, including the doors of the Capitol at Washington. The bronze
casting industry here was founded by Nathan Peabody Ames (1803-1847), who was first a sword-maker
and in 1836 began the manufacture of cannon and church bells. The total value of the city's
factory product in 1905 was $7,715,653, an increase of 43.2% in five years. There is a public
library. The municipality owns and operates the water-works system and the electric lighting
plant. Chicopee was settled about 1638, was set off from Springfield as an independent township
in 1848, and was chartered as a city in 1890. Chicopee Falls was the home of Edward Bellamy.
The name of the city is an Indian word meaning "cedar-tree" or "birch-bark place."

CHICORY. The chicory or succory plant, Cichorium Intybus (natural order, Compositae), in its
wild state is a native of Great Britain, occurring most frequently in dry chalky soils, and
by road-sides. It has a long fleshy tap-root, a rigid branching hairy stem rising to a height
of 2 or 3 ft.--the leaves around the base being lobed and toothed, not unlike those of the
dandelion. The flower heads are of a bright blue colour, few in number, and measure nearly
an inch and a half across. Chicory is cultivated much more extensively on the continent of
Europe--in Holland, Belgium, France and Germany--than in Great Britain; and as a cultivated
plant it has three distinct applications. Its roots roasted and ground are used as a substitute
for, adulterant of, or addition to coffee; both roots and leaves are employed as salads; and
the plant is grown as a fodder or herbage crop which is greedily consumed by cattle. In Great
Britain it is chiefly in its first capacity, in connexion with coffee, that chicory is employed.
A large proportion of the chicory root used for this purpose is obtained from Belgium and other
neighbouring continental countries; but a considerable quantity is cultivated in England, chiefly
in Yorkshire. For the preparation of chicory the older stout white roots are selected, and
after washing they are sliced up into small pieces and kiln-dried. In this condition the material
is sold to the chicory roaster, by whom it is roasted till it assumes a deep brown colour;
afterwards when ground it is in external characteristics very like coffee, but is destitute
of its pleasing aromatic odour. Neither does the roasted chicory possess any trace of the alkaloid
caffeine which gives their peculiar virtues to coffee and tea. The fact, however, that for
over a hundred years it has been successfully used as a substitute for or recognized addition
to coffee, while in the meantime innumerable other substances have been tried for the same
purpose and abandoned, indicates that it is agreeable and harmless. It gives the coffee additional
colour, bitterness and body. It is at least in very extensive and general use; and in Belgium
especially its infusion is largely drunk as an independent beverage.

The blanched leaves are much esteemed by the French as a winter salad known by the name of
Barbe de capucin. When intended for winter use, chicory is sown in May or June, commonly in
drills, and the plants are thinned out to 4 in. apart. If at first the leaves grow very strong,
they are cut off, perhaps in the middle of August, about an inch from the ground, so as to
promote the production of new leaves, and check the formation of flower-stems. About the beginning
of October the plants are raised from the border, and all the large leaves cut off; the roots
are also shortened, and they are then planted pretty closely together in boxes filled with
rich light mould, and watered when needful. When frost comes on, the boxes are protected by
any kind of litter and haulm. As the salad is wanted, they are removed into some place having
a moderately increased temperature, and where there is no light. Each box affords two crops
of blanched leaves, and these are reckoned fit for cutting when about 6 in. long. Another mode
of obtaining the young leaves of this plant in winter is to sow seeds in a bed of light rich
mould, or in boxes in a heat of from 55° to 60°, giving a gentle watering as required. The
leaves will be fit to be cut in a fortnight after sowing, and the plants will afford a second crop.

In Belgium a variety of chicory called Witloef is much preferred as a salad to the French Barbe
de capucin. The seeds are sown and the plants thinned out like those of the ordinary sort.
They are eventually planted in light soil, in succession, from the end of October to February,
at the bottom of trenches a foot or more in depth, and covered over with from 2 to 3 ft. of
hot stable manure. In a month or six weeks, according to the heat applied, the heads are fit
for use and should be cut before they reach the manure. The plants might easily be forced in
frames on a mild hot-bed, or in a mushroom-house, in the same way as sea-kale. In Belgium the
fresh roots are boiled and eaten with butter, and throughout the Continent the roots are stored
for use as salads during winter.

  See also ENDIVE (Cichorium endivia).

CHIDAMBARAM, or CHEDUMBRUM, a town of British India, in the South Arcot district of Madras,
7 m. from the coast and 151 m. S. of Madras by rail. Pop. (1901) 19,909. The pagodas at Chidambaram
are the oldest in the south of India, and portions of them are gems of art. Here is supposed
to have been the northern frontier of the ancient Chola kingdom, the successive capitals of
which were Uriyur on the Cauvery, Combaconum and Tanjore. The principal temple is sacred to
Siva, and is said to have been rebuilt or enlarged by a leper emperor, who came south on a
pilgrimage and was cured by bathing in the temple tank; upwards of 60,000 pilgrims visit the
temple every December. It contains a "hall of a thousand pillars," one of numerous such halls
in India, the exact number of pillars in this case being 984; each is a block of solid granite,
and the roof of the principal temple is of copper-gilt. Three hundred of the highest-caste
Brahmins live with their families within the temple enclosure.

CHIEF (from Fr. chef, head, Lat. caput), the head or upper part of anything, and so, in heraldry,
the upper part of the escutcheon, occupying one-third of the whole. When applied to a leading
personage, a head man or one having the highest authority, the term chief or chieftain (Med.
Lat. capitanus, O. Fr. chevetaine) is principally confined to the leader of a clan or tribe.
The phrase "in chief" (Med. Lat. in capite) is used in feudal law of the tenant who holds his
fief direct from the lord paramount (see FEUDALISM).

CHIEMSEE, also called BAYRISCHES MEER, the largest lake in Bavaria, lying on a high plateau
1600 ft. above the sea, between the rivers Inn (to which it drains through the Alz) and Salzach.
With a length of 6 and a breadth of 9 m., it has an area of about 33 sq. m., and contains three
islands, Herrenwörth, Frauenwörth and Krautinsel. The first, which has a circumference of 6½
m. and is beautifully wooded, is remarkable for the romantic castle which Louis II. of Bavaria
erected here. It was the seat of a bishop from 1215 to 1805, and until 1803 contained a Benedictine
monastery. The shores of the lake are flat on the north and south sides, but its other banks
are flanked by undulating hills, which command beautiful and extensive views. The waters are
clear and it is well stocked with trout and carp; but the fishing rights are strictly preserved.
Steamers ply on the lake, and the railway from Rosenheim to Salzburg skirts the southern shores.

CHIENG MAI, the capital of the Lao state of the same name and of the provincial division of
Siam called Bayap, situated in 99° 0' E., 18° 46' N. The town, enclosed by massive but decaying
walls, lies on the right bank of the river Me Ping, one of the branches of the Me Nam, in a
plain 800 ft. above sea-level, surrounded by high, wooded mountains. It has streets intersecting
at right angles, and an enceinte within which is the palace of the Chao, or hereditary chief.
The east and west banks of the river are connected by a fine teak bridge. The American Presbyterian
Mission, established here in 1867, has a large number of converts and has done much good educational
work. Chieng Mai, which the Burmese have corrupted into Zimmé, by which name it is known to
many Europeans, has long been an important trade centre, resorted to by Chinese merchants from
the north and east, and by Burmese, Shans and Siamese from the west and south. It is, moreover,
the centre of the teak trade of Siam, in which many Burmese and several Chinese and European
firms are engaged. The total value of the import and export trade of the Bayap division amounts
to about £2,500,000 a year. The Siamese high commissioner of Bayap division has his headquarters
in Chieng Mai, and though the hereditary chief continues as the nominal ruler, as is also the
case in the other Lao states of Nan, Prè, Lampun, Napawn Lampang and Tern, which make up the
division, the government is entirely in the hands of that official and his staff. The government
forest department, founded in 1896, has done good work in the division, and the conservator
of forests has his headquarters in Chieng Mai. The headquarters of an army division are also
situated here. A British consul resides at Chieng Mai, where, in addition to the ordinary law
courts, there is an international court having jurisdiction in all cases in which British subjects
are parties. The population, about 20,000, consists mainly of Laos, with many Shans, a few
Burmese, Chinese and Siamese and some fifty Europeans. Hill tribes (Ka) inhabit the neighbouring
mountains in large numbers.

Chieng Mai was formerly the capital of a united Lao kingdom, which, at one time independent,
afterwards subject to Burma and then to Siam, and later broken up into a number of states,
has finally become a provincial division of Siam. In 1902 a rising of discontented Shans took
place in Bayap which at one time seemed serious, several towns being attacked and Chieng Mai
itself threatened. The disturbance was quelled and the malcontents eventually hunted out, but
not without losses which included the commissioner of Prè and a European officer of gendarmerie.

CHIERI, a town and episcopal see of Piedmont, Italy, in the province of Turin, 13 m. S.E. by
rail and 8 m. by road from the town of Turin. Pop. (1901) 11,929 (town), 13,803 (commune).
Its Gothic cathedral, founded in 1037 and reconstructed in 1405, is the largest in Piedmont,
and has a 13th century octagonal baptistery. Chieri was subject to the bishop of Turin in the
9th and 10th centuries, it became independent in the 11th century. In 1347 it submitted voluntarily
to Count Amedeus VI. of Savoy to save itself from the marquis of Monferrato, and finally came
under the dominion of Savoy in the 16th century. In 1785 it was made into a principality of
the duke of Aosta. It was an early centre of trade and manufacture; and in the middle of the
15th century produced about 100,000 pieces of cotton goods per annum.

  See L. Cibrario, Delle storie di Chieri (Turin, 1855).

CHIETI, a city of the Abruzzi, Italy, the capital of the province of Chieti, and the seat of
an archbishop, 140 m. E.N.E. of Rome by rail, and 9 m. W. of Castellammare Adriatico. Pop.
(1901) 26,368. It is situated at a height of 1083 ft. above sea-level, 3 m. from the railway
station, from which it is reached by an electric tramway. It commands a splendid view of the
Apennines on every side except the east, where the Adriatic is seen. It is an active modern
town, upon the site of the ancient Teate Marrucinorum (q.v.), with woollen and cotton manufactories
and other smaller industries. The origin of the see of Chieti dates from the 4th century, S.
Justinus being the first bishop. The cathedral has been spoilt by restoration, and the decoration
of the exterior is incomplete; the Gothic campanile of 1335 is, however, fine. The cathedral
possesses two illuminated missals. Close by is the town hall, which contains a small picture
gallery, in which, in 1905, was held an important exhibition of ancient Abruzzese art. The
de Laurentiis family possesses a private collection of some importance. To the north of Chieti
is the octagonal church of S. Maria del Tricaglio, erected in 1317, which is said (without
reason) to stand upon the site of a temple of Diana. The order of the Theatines, founded in
1524, takes its name from the city. Under the Lombards Chieti formed part of the duchy of Benevento;
it was destroyed by Pippin in 801, but was soon rebuilt and became the seat of a count. The
Normans made it the capital of the Abruzzi.

CHI-FU, CHEFOO, or YEN-T'AI (as it is called by the natives), a seaport of northern China,
on the southern coast of the Gulf of Chih-li, in the province of Shan-tung, near the mouth
of the Yi-ho, about 30 m. E. of the city of Têng-chow-fu. It was formerly quite a small place,
and had only the rank of an unwalled village; but it was chosen as the port of Têng-chow, opened
to foreign trade in 1858 by the treaty of Tientsin, and it is now the residence of a Tao-t'ai,
or intendant of circuit, the centre of a gradually increasing commerce, and the seat of a British
consulate, a Chinese custom-house, and a considerable foreign settlement. The native town is
yearly extending, and though most of the inhabitants are small shop-keepers and coolies of
the lowest class, the houses are for the most part well and solidly built of stone. The foreign
settlement occupies a position between the native town and the sea, which neither affords a
convenient access for shipping nor allows space for any great extension of area. Its growth,
however, has hitherto been steady and rapid. Various streets have been laid out, a large hotel
erected for the reception of the visitors who resort to the place as a sanatorium in summer,
and the religious wants of the community are supplied by a Roman Catholic and a Protestant
church. Though the harbour is deep and extensive, and possessed of excellent anchorage, large
vessels have to be moored at a considerable distance from the shore. Chi-fu has continued to
show fair progress as a place of trade, but the total volume is inconsiderable, having regard
to the area it supplies. In 1880 the total exports and imports were valued at £2,724,000, in
1899 they amounted to £4,228,000, and in 1904 to £4,909,908. In 1895 there entered the port
905 vessels representing a tonnage of 835,248 tons, while in 1905 the number of vessels had
risen to 1842, representing a tonnage of 1,492,514 tons. The imports are mainly woollen and
cotton goods, iron and opium, and the exports include bean cake, bean oil, peas, raw silk,
straw-braid, walnuts, a coarse kind of vermicelli, vegetables and dried fruits. Communication
with the interior is only by roads, which are extremely defective, and nearly all the traffic
is by pack animals. From its healthy situation and the convenience of its anchorage, Chi-fu
has become a favourite rendezvous for the fleets of the European powers in Chinese waters,
and consequently it has at times been an important coaling station. It lies in close proximity
to Korea, Port Arthur and Wei-hai-Wei, and it shared to some extent in the excitement to which
the military and naval operations in these quarters gave rise. The Chi-fu convention was signed
here in 1876 by Sir Thomas Wade and Li-Hung-Chang.

CHIGI-ALBANI, the name of a Roman princely family of Sienese extraction descended from the
counts of Ardenghesca. The earliest authentic mention of them is in the 13th century, and they
first became famous in the person of Agostino Chigi (d. 1520), an immensely rich banker who
built the palace and gardens afterwards known as the Farnesina, decorated by Raphael, and was
noted for the splendour of his entertainments; Pope Julius II. made him practically his finance
minister and gave him the privilege of quartering his own (Della Rovere) arms with those of
the Chigi. Fabio Chigi, on being made pope (Alexander VII.) in 1655, conferred the Roman patriciate
on his family, and created his nephew Agostino prince of Farnese and duke of Ariccia, and the
emperor Leopold I. created the latter Reichsfürst (prince of the Holy Roman Empire) in 1659.
In 1712 the family received the dignity of hereditary marshals of the Church and guardians
of the conclaves, which gave them a very great importance on the death of every pope. On the
marriage in 1735 of another Agostino Chigi (1710-1769) with Giulia Albani, heiress of the Albani,
a Venetian patrician family, said to be of Albanian origin, her name was added to that of Chigi.
The family owns large estates at Siena.

  See A. von Reumont, Geschichte der Stadt Rom, vol. iii. (Berlin,
  1868); Almanach de Gotha.

CHIGWELL, a parish and residential district in the Epping parliamentary division of Essex,
England; with stations (Chigwell Lane and Chigwell) on two branches of the Great Eastern railway,
12 m. N.E. from London. Pop. (1901) 2508. The old village church of St Mary, principally Perpendicular,
has a Norman south door. The village lies in a branch of the Roding valley, fragments of Hainault
Forest lying to the south and east, bordering the village of Chigwell Row. The village of Chigwell
appears in the Domesday survey. The pleasant scenery of the neighbourhood, which attracts large
numbers both of visitors and of residents from London, is described in Dickens's novel, Barnaby
Rudge, and the King's Head Inn, Dickens's "Maypole," still stands. The old grammar school,
founded by Samuel Harsnett, archbishop of York (d. 1631), whose fine memorial brass is in St
Mary's church, has become one of the minor modern institutions of the English public school
type. William Penn attended school at Chigwell from his home at Wanstead.

CHIH-LI ("Direct Rule"), the metropolitan province of China, in which is situated Peking, the
capital of the empire. It contains eleven prefectural cities, and occupies an area of 58,950
sq. m. The population is 29,400,000, the vast majority of whom are resident in the plain country.
This province forms part of the great delta plain of China proper, 20,000 sq. m. of which are
within the provincial boundaries; the remainder of the territory consists of the mountain ranges
which define its northern and western frontier. The plain of Chih-li is formed principally
by detritus deposited by the Pei-ho and its tributary the Hun-ho ("muddy river"), otherwise
known as the Yung-ting-ko, and other streams having their sources in mountains of Shan-si and
other ranges. It is bounded E. by the Gulf of Chih-li and Shan-tung, and S. by Shan-tung and
Ho-nan. The proportion of Mahommedans among the population is very large. In Peking there are
said to be as many as 20,000 Mahommedan families, and in Pao-ting Fu, the capital of the province,
there are about 1000 followers of the prophet. The extremes of heat and cold in Chih-li are
very marked. During the months of December, January and February the rivers are frozen up,
and even the Gulf of Chih-li is fringed with a broad border of ice. There are four rivers of
some importance in the province: the Pei-ho, with the Hun-ho, which rises in the mountains
in Mongolia and, flowing to the west of Peking, forms a junction with the Pei-ho at Tientsin;
the Shang-si-ho, which rises in the mountains on the north of the province of Shan-si, and
takes a south-easterly course as far as the neighbourhood of Ki Chow, from which point it trends
north-east and eventually joines the Hun-ho some 15 m. above Tientsin; the Pu-to-ho, which
rises in Shan-si, and after running a parallel course to Shang-si-ho on the south, empties
itself in the same way into the Hun-ho; and the Lan-ho, which rises in Mongolia, enters the
province on the north-east after passing to the west of Jehol, passes the city of Yung-p'ing
Fu in its course (which is south-easterly) through Chih-li, and from thence winds its way to
the north-eastern boundary of the Gulf of Chih-li. The province contains three lakes of considerable
size. The largest is the Ta-lu-tsze Hu, which lies in 37° 40' N. and 115° 20' E.; the second
in importance is one which is situated to the east of Pao-ting Fu; and the third is the Tu-lu-tsze
Hu, which lies east by north of Shun-te Fu. Four high roads radiate from Peking, one leading
to Urga by way of Süan-hwa Fu, which passes through the Great Wall at Chang-kiu K'ow; another,
which enters Mongolia through the Ku-pei K'ow to the north-east, and after continuing that
course as far as Fung-ning turns in a north-westerly direction to Dolonnor; a third striking
due east by way of T'ung-chow and Yung-p'ing Fu to Shan-hai Kwan, the point where the Great
Wall terminates on the coast; and a fourth which trends in a south-westerly direction to Pao-ting
Fu and on to T'ai-yuen Fu in Shan-si. The mountain ranges to the north of the province abound
with coal, notably at Chai-tang, T'ai-gan-shan, Miao-gan-ling, and Fu-tao in the Si-shan or
Western Hills. "At Chai-tang," wrote Baron von Richthofen, "I was surprised to walk over a
regular succession of coal-bearing strata, the thickness of which, estimating it step by step
as I proceeded gradually from the lowest to the highest strata, exceeds 7000 ft." The coal
here is anthracite, as is also that at T'ai-gan-shan, where are found beds of greater value
than any in the neighbourhood of Peking. In Süan-hwa Fu coal is also found, but not in such
quantities as in the places above named. Iron and silver also exist in small quantities in
different parts of the province, and hot and warm springs are very common at the foot of the
hills along the northern and western edges of the province. The principal agricultural products
are wheat, kao-liang, oats, millet, maize, pulse and potatoes. Fruits and vegetables are also
grown in large quantities. Of the former the chief kinds are pears, apples, plums, apricots,
peaches, persimmons and melons. Tientsin is the Treaty Port of the province.

CHIHUAHUA, a northern frontier state of Mexico, bounded N. and N.E. by the United States (New
Mexico and Texas), E. by Coahuila, S. by Durango, and W. by Sinaloa and Sonora. Pop. (1895)
260,008; (1900) 327,784. Area, 87,802 sq. m. The surface of the state is in great part an elevated
plateau, sloping gently toward the Rio Grande. The western side, however, is much broken by
the Sierra Madre and its spurs, which form elevated valleys of great fertility. An arid sandy
plain extending from the Rio Grande inland for 300 to 350 m. is quite destitute of vegetation
where irrigation is not used. There is little rainfall in this region and the climate is hot
and dry. The more elevated plateaus and valleys have the heavier rainfall, but the average
for the state is barely 39 in.; an impermeable clay substratum prevents its absorption by the
soil, and the bare surface carries it off in torrents. The great Bolsón de Mapimí depression,
in the S.E. part of the state, was once considered to be an unreclaimable desert, but experiments
with irrigation have shown its soil to be highly fertile, and the conversion of the narrow
valleys of the sierras on the west into irrigation reservoirs promises to reclaim a considerable
part of its area. The only river of consequence is the Conchos, which flows north and north-east
into the Rio Grande across the whole length of the state. In the north there are several small
streams flowing northward into lakes. Agriculture has made little progress in Chihuahua, and
the scarcity of water will always be a serious obstacle to its development outside the districts
where irrigation is practicable. The climate and soil are favourable to the production of wheat,
Indian corn, beans, indigo, cotton and grapes, from which wine and brandy are made. The principal
grape-producing district is in the vicinity of Ciudad Juárez. Stock-raising is an important
industry in the mountainous districts of the west, where there is excellent pasturage for the
greater part of the year. The principal industry of the state, however, is mining--its mineral
resources including gold, silver, copper, mercury, lead and coal. The silver mines of Chihuahua
are among the richest in Mexico, and include the famous mining districts of Batopilas, Chihuahuilla,
Cosihuiriachic, Jesús María, Parral, and Santa Eulalia or Chihuahua el Viejo. There are more
than one hundred of these mines, and the total annual yield at the end of the 19th century
was estimated at $4,500,000. The state is traversed from north to south by the Mexican Central
railway, and there are short branches to some of the mining districts.

Chihuahua originally formed part of the province of Nueva Viscaya, with Durango as the capital.
In 1777 the northern provinces, known as the Provincias Internas, were separated from the viceroyalty,
and in 1786 the provinces were reorganized as intendencias, but Chihuahua was not separated
from Durango until 1823. An effort was made to overthrow Spanish authority in 1810, but its
leader Hidalgo and two of his lieutenants were captured and executed, after which the province
remained passive until the end of the struggle. The people of the state have been active partizans
in most of the revolutionary outbreaks in Mexico, and in the war of 1862-66 Chihuahua was loyal
to Juárez. The principal towns are the capital Chihuahua, El Parral, 120 m. S.S.E. of the state
capital, in a rich mining district (pop. 14,748 in 1900), Ciudad Juárez and Jimenez, 120 m.
S.E. of Chihuahua (pop. 5881 in 1900).

CHIHUAHUA, a city of Mexico, capital of the above state, on the Chihuahua river, about 1000
m. N.W. of Mexico City and 225 m. S. by E. of El Paso. Pop. (1895) 18,279; (1900) 30,405. The
city stands in a beautiful valley opening northward and hemmed in on all other sides by spurs
of the Sierra Madre. It is 4635 ft. above sea-level, and its climate is mild and healthy. The
city is laid out regularly, with broad streets, and a handsome plaza with a monument to Hidalgo
and his companions of the revolution of 1810, who were executed here. The most noteworthy of
its public buildings is the fine old parish church of San Francisco, begun in 1717 and completed
in 1789, one of the best specimens of 18th-century architecture in Mexico. It was built, it
is said, with the proceeds of a small tax on the output of the Santa Eulalia mine. Other prominent
buildings are the government palace, the Porfirio Diaz hospital, the old Jesuit College (now
occupied by a modern institution of the same character), the mint, and an aqueduct built in
the 18th century. Chihuahua is a station on the Mexican Central railway, and has tramways and
telephones. Mining is the principal occupation of the surrounding district, the famous Santa
Eulalia or Chihuahua el Viejo mines being about 12 m. from the city. Next in importance is
agriculture, especially fruit-growing. Manufacturing is making good progress, especially the
weaving of cotton fabrics by modern methods. The manufacture of cotton and woollen goods are
old industries in Chihuahua, but the introduction of American skill and capital toward the
end of the 19th century placed them on an entirely new footing. The manufacture of gunpowder
for mining operations is another old industry.

Chihuahua was founded between 1703 and 1705 as a mining town, and was made a villa in 1715
with the title San Felipe el Real de Chihuahua. Because of the rich mines in its vicinity it
soon became one of the most prosperous towns in northern Mexico, although the state was constantly
raided by hostile Indians. In 1763 it had a population of nearly 5000. The war of independence
was followed by a period of decline, owing to political disorder and revolution, which lasted
until the presidency of General Porfirio Diaz. In the war between Mexico and the United States,
Chihuahua was captured on the 1st of March 1847, by Colonel A.W. Doniphan, and again on the
7th of March by General Price. In 1864 President Juárez made the city his provisional capital
for a short time.

CHILAS, a hill village in the North-West Frontier Province of India. It is dominated by a fort
on the left bank of the Indus, about 50 m. below Bunji, 4100 ft. above sea-level. It was occupied
by a British force early in 1893, when a determined attack was made on the place by the Kohistanis
from the Indus valley districts to the south-west, aided by contingents from Darel and Tangir
west of Gilgit and north of the Indus. Its importance consists in its position with reference
to the Kashmir-Gilgit route via Astor, which it flanks. It is now connected with Bunji by a
metalled road. Chilas is also important from its command of a much shorter and more direct
route to Gilgit from the Punjab frontier than that of Kashmir and the Burzil pass. By the Kashmir
route Gilgit is 400 m. from the rail-head at Rawalpindi. The Kagan route would bring it 100
m. nearer, but the unsettled condition of the country through which the road passes has been
a bar to its general use.

CHILBLAINS (or KIBE; Erythema pernio), a mild form of frostbite, affecting the fingers or toes
and other parts, and causing a painful inflammatory swelling, with redness and itching of the
affected part. The chief points to be noticed in its aetiology are (1) that the lesions occur
in the extremities of the circulation, and (2) that they are usually started by rapid changes
from heat to cold or vice versa. The treatment is both general and local. In the general treatment,
if a history of blanching fingers (fingers or hands going "dead") can be obtained, the chilblains
may be regarded as mild cases of Raynaud's disease, and these improve markedly under a course
of nitrites. Cardiac tonics are often helpful, especially in those cases where there is some
attendant lesion of the heart. But the majority of cases improve wonderfully on a good course
of a calcium salt, e.g. calcium lactate or chloride; fifteen grains three times a day will
answer in most cases. The patient should wash in soft tepid water, and avoid extremes of heat
and cold. In the local treatment, two drugs are of great value in the early congestive stage--ichthyol
and formalin. Ichthyol, 10 to 20% in lanoline spread on linen and worn at night, often dispels
an attack at the beginning. Formalin is equally efficacious, but requires more skill in its
use. It can be used as an ointment, 10 to 50% for delicate skins, stronger for coarser skins.
It should be replaced occasionally by lanoline. If the stage of ulceration has been reached,
a paste made from the following prescription, spread thickly on linen and frequently changed,
soon cures:--Hydrarg. ammoniat. gr. v., ichthyol [minim]x, pulveris zinci oxidi [drachm]iv,
vaseline [ounce]ss.

CHILD, SIR FRANCIS (1642-1713), English banker, was a Wiltshire man, who, having been apprenticed
to a goldsmith, became himself a London goldsmith in 1664. In 1671 he married Elizabeth (d.
1720), daughter of another goldsmith named William Wheeler (d. 1663), and with his wife's stepfather,
Robert Blanchard (d. 1681), took over about the same time the business of goldsmiths hitherto
carried on by the Wheelers. This was the beginning of Child's Bank. Child soon gave up the
business of a goldsmith and confined himself to that of a banker. He inherited some wealth
and was very successful in business; he was jeweller to the king, and lent considerable sums
of money to the government. Being a freeman of the city of London, Child was elected a member
of the court of common council in 1681; in 1689 he became an alderman, and in the same year
a knight. He served as sheriff of London in 1691 and as lord mayor in 1699. His parliamentary
career began about this time. In 1698 he was chosen member of parliament for Devizes and in
1702 for the city of London, and was again returned for Devizes in 1705 and 1710. He died on
the 4th of October 1713, and was buried in Fulham churchyard. Sir Francis, who was a benefactor
to Christ's hospital, bought Osterley Park, near Isleworth, now the residence of his descendant
the earl of Jersey.

Child had twelve sons. One, Sir Robert, an alderman, died in 1721. Another, Sir Francis (c.
1684-1740), was lord mayor of London in 1732, and a director of the East India Company. He
was chosen member of parliament for the city of London in 1722, and was member for Middlesex
from 1727 until his death. After the death of the younger Sir Francis at Fulham on the 20th
of April 1740 the banking business passed to his brother Samuel, and the bank is still owned
by his descendants, the principal proprietor being the earl of Jersey. Child's Bank was at
first conducted at the Marygold, next Temple Bar in Fleet Street, London; and the present bank
occupies the site formerly covered by the Marygold and the adjacent Devil tavern.

CHILD, FRANCIS JAMES (1825-1896), American scholar and educationist, was born in Boston on
the 1st of February 1825. He graduated at Harvard in 1846, taking the highest rank in his class
in all subjects; was tutor in mathematics in 1846-1848; and in 1848 was transferred to a tutorship
in history, political economy and English. After two years of study in Europe, in 1851 he succeeded
Edward T. Channing as Boylston professor of rhetoric, oratory and elocution. Child studied
the English drama (having edited Four Old Plays in 1848) and Germanic philology, the latter
at Berlin and Göttingen during a leave of absence, 1849-1853; and he took general editorial
supervision of a large collection of the British poets, published in Boston in 1853 and following
years. He edited Spenser (5 vols., Boston, 1855), and at one time planned an edition of Chaucer,
but contented himself with a treatise, in the Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
for 1863, entitled "Observations on the Language of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales," which did
much to establish Chaucerian grammar, pronunciation and scansion as now generally understood.
His largest undertaking, however, grew out of an original collection, in his British Poets
series, of English and Scottish Ballads, selected and edited by himself, in eight small volumes
(Boston, 1857-1858). Thenceforward the leisure of his life--much increased by his transfer,
in 1876, to the new professorship of English--was devoted to the comparative study of British
vernacular ballads. He accumulated, in the university library, one of the largest folklore
collections in existence, studied manuscript rather than printed sources, and carried his investigations
into the ballads of all other tongues, meanwhile giving a sedulous but conservative hearing
to popular versions still surviving. At last his final collection was published as The English
and Scottish Popular Ballads, at first in ten parts (1882-1898), and then in five quarto volumes,
which remain the authoritative treasury of their subject. Professor Child worked--and overworked--to
the last, dying in Boston on the 11th of September 1896, having completed his task save for
a general introduction and bibliography. A sympathetic biographical sketch was prefixed to
the work by his pupil and successor George L. Kittredge.

CHILD, SIR JOHN (d. 1690), governor of Bombay, and in fact if not in name the first governor-general
of the British settlements in India, was born in London. He was sent as a little boy to his
uncle, the chief of the factory at Rajapur; and in 1682 was appointed chief of the East India
Company's affairs at Surat and Bombay, while at the same time his brother, Sir Josiah Child
(q.v.), was governor of the company at home. The two brothers showed themselves strong men
and guided the affairs of the company through the period of struggle between the Moguls and
Mahrattas. They have been credited by history with the change from unarmed to armed trade on
the part of the company; but as a matter of fact both of them were loth to quarrel with the
Mogul. War broke out with Aurangzeb in 1689, but in the following year Child had to sue for
peace, one of the conditions being that he should be expelled from India. He escaped this expulsion
by his death in 1690.

CHILD, SIR JOSIAH (1630-1699), English merchant, economist and governor of the East India Company,
was born in London in 1630, the second son of Richard Child, a London merchant of old family.
After serving his apprenticeship in the business, to which he succeeded, he started on his
own account at Portsmouth, as victualler to the navy under the Commonwealth, when about twenty-five.
He amassed a comfortable fortune, and became a considerable stock-holder in the East India
Company, his interest in India being accentuated by the fact that his brother John (q.v.) was
making his career there. He was returned to parliament in 1659 for Petersfield; and in later
years sat for Dartmouth (1673-1678) and for Ludlow (1685-1687). He was made a baronet in 1678.
His advocacy, both by speech and by pen, under the pseudonym of Philopatris, of the East India
Company's claims to political power, as well as to the right of restricting competition with
its trade, brought him to the notice of the shareholders, and he became a director in 1677,
and, subsequently, deputy-governor and governor. In this latter capacity he was for a considerable
time virtually the sole ruler of the company, and directed its policy as if it were his own
private business. He and his brother have been credited with the change from unarmed to armed
traffic; but the actual renunciation of the Roe doctrine of unarmed traffic by the company
was resolved upon in January 1686, under Governor Sir Joseph Ash, when Child was temporarily
out of office. He died on the 22nd of June 1699. Child made several important contributions
to the literature of economics; especially Brief Observations concerning Trade and the Interest
of Money (1668), and A New Discourse of Trade (1668 and 1690). He was a moderate in those days
of the "mercantile system," and has sometimes been regarded as a sort of pioneer in the development
of the free-trade doctrines of the 18th century. He made various proposals for improving British
trade by following Dutch example, and advocated a low rate of interest as the "causa causans
of all the other causes of the riches of the Dutch people." This low rate of interest he thought
should be created and maintained by public authority. Child, whilst adhering to the doctrine
of the balance of trade, observed that a people cannot always sell to foreigners without ever
buying from them, and denied that the export of the precious metals was necessarily detrimental.
He had the mercantilist partiality for a numerous population, and became prominent with a new
scheme for the relief and employment of the poor; it is noteworthy also that he advocated the
reservation by the mother country of the sole right of trade with her colonies. Sir Josiah
Child's eldest son, Richard, was created Viscount Castlemain in 1718 and earl of Tylney in 1731.

  See also Macaulay, History of England, vol. iv.; R. Grant, Sketch
  of the History of the East India Company (1813); D. Macpherson,
  Annals of Commerce (1805); B. Willson, Ledger and Sword (1903).
      (T. A. I.)

CHILD, LYDIA MARIA (1802-1880), American author, was born at Medford, Massachusetts, on the
11th of February 1802. She was educated at an academy in her native town and by her brother
Convers Francis (1795-1863), a Unitarian minister and from 1842 to 1863 Parkman professor in
the Harvard Divinity School. Her first stories, Hobomok (1824) and The Rebels (1825), were
popular successes. She was a schoolmistress until 1828, when she married David Lee Child (1794-1874),
a brilliant but erratic Boston lawyer and journalist. From 1826 to 1834 she edited The Juvenile
Miscellany, the first children's monthly periodical in the United States. About 1831 both she
and her husband began to identify themselves with the anti-slavery cause, and in 1833 she published
An Appeal for that Class of Americans called Africans, a stirring portrayal of the evils of
slavery, and an argument for immediate abolition, which had a powerful influence in winning
recruits to the anti-slavery cause. Henceforth her time was largely devoted to the anti-slavery
cause. From 1840 to 1844, assisted by her husband, she edited the Anti-Slavery Standard in
New York City. After the Civil War she wrote much in behalf of the freedmen and of Indian rights.
She died at Wayland, Massachusetts, on the 20th of October 1880. In addition to the books above
mentioned, she wrote many pamphlets and short stories and The (American) Frugal Housewife (1829),
one of the earliest American books on domestic economy, The Mother's Book (1831), a pioneer
cook-book republished in England and Germany, The Girls' Own Book (1831), History of Women
(2 vols., 1832), Good Wives (1833), The Anti-Slavery Catechism (1836), Philothea (1836), a
romance of the age of Pericles, perhaps her best book, Letters from New York (2 vols., 1843-1845),
Fact and Fiction (1847), The Power of Kindness (1851), Isaac T. Hopper: a True Life (1853),
The Progress of Religious Ideas through Successive Ages (3 vols., 1855), Autumnal Leaves (1857),
Looking Toward Sunset (1864), The Freedman's Book (1865), A Romance of the Republic (1867),
and Aspirations of the World (1878).

  See The Letters of Lydia Maria Child, with a Biographical
  Introduction by J.G. Whittier (Boston, 1883); and a chapter in T.W.
  Higginson's Contemporaries (Boston, 1899).

CHILD, the common term for the offspring of human beings, generally below the age of puberty;
the term is the correlative of "parent," and applies to either sex, though some early dialectical
uses point to a certain restriction to a girl. The word is derived from the A.S. cild, an old
Teutonic word found in English only, in other Teutonic languages kind and its variants being
used, usually derived from the Indo-European root ken, seen in Gr. [greek: genos], Lat. genus,
and Eng. "kin"; cild has been held to be a modification of the same root, but the true root
is kilth, seen in Goth. kilthei, womb, an origin which appears in the expressions "child-birth,"
"to be with child," and the like; the plural in A.S. was cild, and later cildru, which in northern
M.E. became childre or childer, a form dialectically extant, and in southern English childeren
or children (with the plural termination -en, as in "brethren"). There are several particular
uses of "child" in the English version of the Bible, as of a young man in the "Song of the
three holy children," of descendants or members of a race, as in "children of Abraham," and
also to express origin, giving a description of character, as "children of darkness." During
the 13th and 14th centuries "child" was used, in a sense almost amounting to a title of dignity,
of a young man of noble birth, probably preparing for knighthood. In the York Mysteries of
about 1440 (quoted in the New English Dictionary) occurs "be he churl or child," obviously
referring to gentle birth, cf. William Bellenden's translation (1553) of Livy (ii. 124) "than
was in Rome ane nobill childe ... namit Caius Mucius." The spelling "childe" is frequent in
modern usage to indicate its archaic meaning. Familiar instances are in the line of an old
ballad quoted in King Lear, "childe Roland to the dark tower came," and in Byron's Childe Harold.
With this use may be compared the Spanish and Portuguese Infante and Infanta, and the early
French use of Valet (q.v.).

Child-study.--The physical, psychological and educational development of children, from birth
till adulthood, has provided material in recent years for what has come to be regarded as almost
a distinct part of comparative anthropological or sociological science, and the literature
of adolescence (q.v.) and of "child-study" in its various aspects has attained considerable
proportions. In England the British Child Study Association was founded in 1894, its official
organ being the Paidologist, while similar work is done by the Childhood Society, and, to a
certain extent, by the Parents' National Educational Union (which issues the Parents' Review).
In America, where specially valuable work has been done, several universities have encouraged
the study (notably Chicago, while under the auspices of Professor John Dewey); and Professor
G. Stanley Hall's initiative has led to elaborate inquiries, the principal periodical for the
movement being the Pedagogical Seminary. The impetus to this study of the child's mind and
capacities was given by the classic work of educationists like J.A. Comenius, J.H. Pestalozzi,
and F.W.A. Froebel, but more recent writers have carried it much further, notably W.T. Preyer
(The Mind of the Child, 1881), whose psychological studies stamp him as one of the chief pioneers
in new methods of investigation. Other authorities of first-rate importance (their chief works
only being given here) are J. Sully (Studies of Childhood, 1896), Earl Barnes (Studies in Education,
1896, 1902), J.M. Baldwin (Mental Development in the Child and the Race, 1895), Sigismund (Kind
und Welt, 1897), A.F. Chamberlain (The Child, 1900), G. Stanley Hall (Adolescence, 1904; he
had from 1882 been the leader in America of such investigations), H. Holman and R. Langdon
Down (Practical Child Study, 1899), E.A. Kirkpatrick (Fundamentals of Child-study, 1903), and
Prof. Tracy of Toronto (Psychology of Childhood, 5th ed., 1901); while among a number of contributions
worth particular attention may be mentioned W.B. Drummond's excellent summary, Introduction
to Child Study (1907), which deals succinctly with methods and results; Irving King's Psychology
of Child Development (1906, useful for its bibliography); Prof. David R. Major's First Steps
in Mental Growth (1906); and Miss M. Shinn's Notes an the Development of a Child (1893) and
Mrs Louise E. Hogan's Study of a Child (1898), which are noteworthy among individual and methodical
accounts of what children will do. In such books as those cited a great deal of important material
has been collected and analysed, and a number of conclusions suggested which bear both on psychology
and the science of education; but it must be borne in mind, as regards a great deal of the
voluminous literature of the subject, that it is often more pertinent to general psychology
and hygiene than to any special conclusions as to the essential nature of a child--whatever
"a child" generically may be as the special object of a special science. The child, after all,
is in a transition stage to an adult, and there is often a tendency in modern "child students"
to interpret the phenomena exhibited by a particular child with a parti pris, or to exaggerate
child-study--which is really interesting as providing the knowledge of growth towards full
human equipment--as though it involved the discovery of some distinct form of animal, of separate
value on its own account.

Growth.--Into the psychical characteristics and development of the child and all the interesting
educational problems involved it is impossible to enter here, and reference must be made to
the works cited above. But a knowledge of the more important features of normal physical development
has a constant importance. Some of these, as matters of comparative physiology or pathology,
are dealt with in other articles in this work. One of these chief matters of interest is weight
and height, and this is naturally affected by race, nutrition and environment. But while the
standard in different countries somewhat differs, the British average for healthy children
may here be followed. At birth the average weight of a baby is a little over 7 lb and the length
about 20 in. The following are the averages for weight and height, taking the age in years
of the child at the last birthday:--

  +--------+----------+---------+----------+---------+
  |  Age.  | Height, in inches. | Weight, in pounds. |
  +--------+----------+---------+----------+---------+
  |        |   Girls  |   Boys  |   Girls  |   Boys  |
  |        |          |         |          |         |
  |   1    |    28.7  |   29    |   19.8   |   20.5  |
  |   2    |    32.5  |   32.5  |   25.5   |   26.5  |
  |   3    |    35    |   35    |   30     |   31.2  |
  |   4    |    38    |   38    |   34     |   35    |
  |   5    |    40.5  |   41    |   39.2   |   41.2  |
  |   6    |    42.8  |   44    |   41.7   |   44.4  |
  |   7    |    44.5  |   46    |   47.5   |   49.7  |
  |   8    |    46.6  |   47    |   52.1   |   54.9  |
  |   9    |    48.7  |   49    |   55.5   |   60.4  |
  |  10    |    51    |   51.8  |   62     |   67.5  |
  |  11    |    53.1  |   53.5  |   68     |   72    |
  |  12    |    55.6  |   55    |   76.4   |   76.7  |
  |  13    |    57.7  |   57    |   87.2   |   82.6  |
  |  14    |    59.8  |   59.3  |   96.7   |   92    |
  |  15    |    60.9  |   62    |  102.7   |  106    |
  +--------+----------+---------+----------+---------+

  See also CHILDREN, LAW RELATING TO; CHILDREN'S COURTS; CHILDREN'S
  GAMES; INFANT; &c.

CHILDEBERT, the name of three Frankish kings.

CHILDEBERT I. (d. 558) was one of the four sons of Clovis. In the partition of his father's
realm in 511 he received as his share the town of Paris, and the country to the north as far
as the river Somme, and to the west as far as the English Channel, with the Armorican peninsula.
In 524, after the murder of Chlodomer's children, Childebert annexed the cities of Chartres
and Orleans. He took part in the various expeditions against the kingdom of Burgundy, and in
534 received as his share of the spoils of that kingdom the towns of Mâcon, Geneva and Lyons.
When Vitiges, the king of the Ostrogoths, ceded Provence to the Franks in 535, the possession
of Arles and Marseilles was guaranteed to Childebert by his brothers. Childebert also made
a series of expeditions against the Visigoths of Spain; in 542 he took possession of Pampeluna
with the help of his brother Clotaire I., and besieged Saragossa, but was forced to retreat.
From this expedition he brought back to Paris a precious relic, the tunic of St Vincent, in
honour of which he built at the gates of Paris the famous monastery of St Vincent, known later
as St Germain-des-Prés. He died without issue in 558, and was buried in the abbey he had founded,
where his tomb has been discovered.

  See "Nouveaux documents sur le tombeau de Childebert à
  Saint-Germain-des-Prés," in the Bulletin de la Société des
  Antiquaires (1887).

CHILDEBERT II. (570-595), king of Austrasia, was a son of Sigebert. When his father was assassinated
in 575, Childebert was taken from Paris by Gundobald, one of his faithful leudes, to Metz,
where he was recognized as sovereign. He was then only five years old, and during his long
minority the power was disputed between his mother Brunhilda and the nobles. Chilperic, king
at Paris, and King Gontran of Burgundy, sought alliance with Childebert, who was adopted by
both in turn. But after the assassination of Chilperic in 584, and the dangers occasioned to
the Frankish monarchy by the expedition of Gundobald in 585, Childebert threw himself unreservedly
into the arms of Gontran. By the pact of Andelot in 587 Childebert was recognized as Gontran's
heir, and with his uncle's help he quelled the revolts of the nobles and succeeded in seizing
the castle of Woëwre. Many attempts were made on his life by Fredegond, who was anxious to
secure Gontran's inheritance for her son Clotaire II. On the death of Gontran in 592 Childebert
annexed the kingdom of Burgundy, and even contemplated seizing Clotaire's estates and becoming
sole king of the Franks. He died, however, in 595. Childebert II. had had relations with the
Byzantine empire, and fought in 585 in the name of the emperor Maurice against the Lombards
in Italy.

CHILDEBERT III. was one of the last and feeblest of the Merovingians. A son of King Theuderich
III., he succeeded his brother Clovis III. in 695, and reigned until 711.

  See B. Krusch, "Zur Chronologie der merowingischen Könige," in
  Forschungen zur deutschen Geschichte, xxii. 451-490.    (C. PF.)

CHILDERIC, the name of three Frankish kings.

CHILDERIC I. (c. 437-481), king of the Salian Franks, succeeded his father Merwich (Merwing)
as king about. 457. With his tribe he was established around the town of Tournai, on lands
which he had received as a foederatus of the Romans, and for some time he kept the peace with
his allies. About 463, in conjunction with the Roman general Egidius, he fought against the
Visigoths, who hoped to extend their dominion along the banks of the Loire; after the death
of Egidius he assisted Count Paul in attempting to check an invasion of the Saxons. Paul having
perished in the struggle, Childeric delivered Angers from some Saxons, followed them to the
islands at the mouth of the Loire, and massacred them there. He also stopped a band of the
Alamanni who wished to invade Italy. These are all the facts known about him. The stories of
his expulsion by the Franks; of his stay of eight years in Thuringia with King Basin and his
wife Basine; of his return when a faithful servant advised him that he could safely do so by
sending to him half of a piece of gold which he had broken with him; and of the arrival at
Tournai of Queen Basine, whom he married, are entirely legendary. After the fall of the Western
Empire in 476 there is no doubt that Childeric regarded himself as freed from his engagements
towards Rome. He died in 481 and was buried at Tournai, leaving a son Clovis (q.v.), afterwards
king of the Franks. His tomb was discovered in 1653, when numerous precious objects, arms,
jewels, coins and a ring with a figure of the king, were found.

CHILDERIC II. (c. 653-673), king of Austrasia, was a son of the Frankish king Clovis II., and
in 660, although a child, was proclaimed king of Austrasia, while his brother, Clotaire III.,
ruled over the rest of the dominions of Clovis. After the death of Clotaire in 670 he became
ruler of the three Frankish kingdoms, Austrasia, Neustria and Burgundy, but soon quarrelled
with some supporters in Neustria, and was assassinated whilst hunting. He was buried at St
Germain near Paris.

CHILDERIC III. (d. c. 751), king of the Franks, was the last king of the Merovingian dynasty.
The throne had been vacant for seven years when the mayors of the palace, Carloman and Pippin
the Short, decided in 743 to recognize Childeric as king. We cannot say whose son he was, or
what bonds bound him to the Merovingian family. He took no part in public business, which was
directed, as before, by the mayors of the palace. When in 747 Carloman retired into a monastery,
Pippin resolved to take the royal crown for himself; taking the decisive step in 751 after
having received the celebrated answer of Pope Zacharias that it were better to name king him
who possessed the power than him who possessed it not. Childeric was dethroned and placed in
the monastery of St Omer; his son, Theuderich, was imprisoned at Saint-Wandrille. (Paris, 1903).

CHILDERS, HUGH CULLING EARDLEY (1827-1896), British statesman, was born in London on the 25th
of June 1827. On leaving Cambridge he went out to Australia (1850), and became a member of
the government of Victoria, but in 1857 returned to England as agent-general of the colony.
Entering parliament in 1860 as Liberal member for Pontefract (a seat that he continued to hold
till 1885), he became civil lord of the admiralty in 1864, and in 1865 financial secretary
to the treasury. Childers occupied a succession of prominent posts in the various Gladstone
ministries. He was first lord of the admiralty from 1868 to 1871, and as such inaugurated a
policy of retrenchment. Ill-health compelled his resignation of office in 1871, but next year
he returned to the ministry as chancellor of the duchy of Lancaster. From 1880 to 1882 he was
secretary for war, a post he accepted somewhat unwillingly; and in that position he had to
bear the responsibility for the reforms which were introduced into the war office under the
parsimonious conditions which were then part of the Liberal creed. During his term of office
the Egyptian War occurred, in which Childers acted with creditable energy; and also the Boer
War, in which he and his colleagues showed to less advantage. From 1882 to 1885 he was chancellor
of the exchequer, and the beer and spirit duty in his budget of the latter year was the occasion
of the government's fall. Defeated at the general election at Pontefract, he was returned as
a Home Ruler (one of the few Liberals who adopted this policy before Mr Gladstone's conversion)
in 1886 for South Edinburgh, and was home secretary in the ministry of 1886. When the first
Home Rule bill was introduced he demurred privately to its financial clauses, and their withdrawal
was largely due to his threat of resignation. He retired from parliament in 1892, and died
on the 29th of January 1896, his last piece of work being the drafting of a report for the
royal commission on Irish financial relations, of which he was chairman. Childers was a capable
and industrious administrator of the old Liberal school, and he did his best, in the political
conditions then prevailing, to improve the naval and military administration while he was at
the admiralty and war office. His own bent was towards finance, but no striking reform is associated
with his name. His most ambitious effort was his attempt to effect a conversion of consols
in 1884, but the scheme proved a failure, though it paved the way for the subsequent conversion
in 1888.

  The Life (1901) of Mr Childers, by his son, throws some interesting
  side-lights on the inner history of more than one Gladstonian cabinet.

CHILDERS, ROBERT CAESAR (1838-1876), English Oriental scholar, son of the Rev. Charles Childers,
English chaplain at Nice, was born in 1838. In 1860 he received an appointment in the civil
service of Ceylon, which he retained until 1864, when he was compelled to return to England
owing to ill-health. He had studied P[=a]li during his residence in Ceylon, under Yátrámullé
Unnánsé, a learned Buddhist for whom he cherished a life-long respect, and he had gained an
insight into the Sinhalese character and ways of thought. In 1869 he published the first P[=a]li
text ever printed in England, and began to prepare a P[=a]li dictionary, the first volume of
which was published in 1872, and the second and concluding volume in 1875. In the following
year it was awarded the Volney prize by the Institute of France, as being the most important
philological work of the year. He was a frequent contributor to the Journal of the Royal Asiatic
Society, in which he published the Mah[=a]-parinibb[=a]na Sutta, the P[=a]li text giving the
account of the last days of Buddha's life. In 1872 he was appointed sub-librarian at the India
Office, and in the following year he became the first professor of P[=a]li and Buddhist literature
at University College, London. He died in London on the 25th of July 1876.

CHILDREN, LAW RELATING TO. English law has always in theory given to children the same remedies
as to adults for ill-usage, whether by their parents or by others, and has never recognized
the patria potestas as known to the earlier Roman law; and while powers of discipline and chastisement
have been regarded as necessarily incident to paternal authority, the father is civilly liable
to his children for wrongs done to them. The only points in which infancy created a defect
in civil status were that infants were subject to the restraints on complete freedom of action
involved in their being in the legal custody of the father, and that it was and is lawful for
parents, guardians, employers and teachers to inflict corporal punishment proportioned in amount
and severity to the nature of the fault committed and the age and mental capacity of the child
punished. But the court of chancery, in delegated exercise of the authority of the sovereign
as parens patriae, always asserted the right to take from parents, and if necessary itself
to assume the wardship of children where parental rights were abused or serious cruelty was
inflicted, the power being vested in the High Court of Justice. Abuse of the power of correction
was regarded as giving a cause of action or prosecution for assault; and if attended by fatal
results rendered the parent liable to indictment for murder or manslaughter.

The conception of what constitutes cruelty to children undoubtedly changed considerably with
the relaxation of the accepted standard of severity in domestic or scholastic discipline and
with the growth of new ideas as to the duties of parents to children, which in their latest
developments tend enormously to enlarge the parental duties without any corresponding increase
of filial obligations.

Starting from the earlier conception, which limited ill-treatment legally punishable to actual
threats or blows, the common law came to recognize criminal liability in cases where persons,
bound under duty or contract to supply necessaries to a child, unable by reason of its tender
years to provide for itself, wilfully neglected to supply them, and thereby caused the death
of the child or injury to its health, although no actual assault had been committed. Questions
have from time to time arisen as to what could be regarded as necessary within this rule; and
quite apart from legislation, popular opinion has influenced courts of justice in requiring
more from parents and employers than used to be required. But parliament has also intervened
to punish abandonment or exposure of infants of under two years, whereby their lives are endangered,
or their health has been or is likely to be permanently injured (Offences against the Person
Act of 1861, s. 27), and the neglect or ill-treatment of apprentices or servants (same act,
s. 26, and Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act 1875, s. 6). By the Poor Law Amendment
Act 1868, parents were rendered summarily punishable who wilfully neglected to provide adequate
food, clothing, medical aid or lodging for their children under fourteen years of age in their
custody, whereby the health of the child was or was likely to be seriously injured. This enactment
(now superseded by later legislation) made no express exception in favour of parents who had
not sufficient means to do their duty without resort to the poor law, and was construed as
imposing criminal liability on parents whose peculiar religious tenets caused them advisedly
to refrain from calling in a doctor to a sick child.

The chief progress in the direction of adequate protection for children prior to 1889 lay less
in positive legal enactment on the subject than in the institution of an effective system of
police, whereby it became possible to discover and repress cruelty punishable under the ordinary
law. It is quite inaccurate to say that children had very few rights in England, or that animals
were better protected. But before the constitution of the present police force, and in the
absence of any proper system of public prosecution, it is undeniable that numberless cases
of neglect and ill-treatment went unpunished and were treated as nobody's business, because
there was no person ready to undertake in the public interest the protection of the children
of cruel or negligent parents. In 1889 a statute was passed with the special object of preventing
cruelty to children. This act was superseded in 1894 by a more stringent act, which was repealed
by the Prevention of Cruelty to Children Act 1904, in its turn superseded for the most part
by the Children Act 1908, which introduced many new provisions in the law relating to children
and specifically deals with the offence of "cruelty" to them. This offence can only be committed
by a person over sixteen in respect of a child under sixteen of whom he has "custody," "charge"
or "care." The act presumes that a child is in the custody of its parents, step-parents, or
a person cohabiting with its parent, or of its guardians or persons liable by law to maintain
it; that it is in the charge of a person to whom the parent has committed such charge (e.g.
a schoolmaster), and that it is in the care of a person who has actual possession or control
of it. Cruelty is defined as consisting in assault, ill-treatment (falling short of actual
assault), neglect, abandonment or exposure of the child in a manner likely to cause unnecessary
suffering or injury to health, including injury to or loss of sight, hearing or limb, or any
organ of the body or any mental derangement; and the act or omission must be wilful, i.e. deliberate
and intentional, and not merely accidental or inadvertent. The offence may be punished either
summarily or on indictment, and the offender may be sent to penal servitude if it is shown
that he was directly or indirectly interested in any sum of money payable on the death of the
child, e.g. by having taken out a policy permitted under the Friendly Societies Acts. A parent
or other person legally liable to maintain a child or young person will be deemed to have "neglected"
him by failure to provide adequate food, clothing, medical aid, or lodging, or if in the event
of inability to provide such food, &c., by failure to take steps to procure the same under
acts relating to the relief of the poor.

These statutes overlap the common law and the statutes already mentioned. Their real efficacy
lies in the main in the provisions which facilitate the taking of evidence of young children,
in permitting poor law authorities to prosecute at the expense of the rates, and in permitting
a constable on arresting the offender to take the child away from the accused, and the court
of trial on conviction to transfer the custody of the child from the offender to some fit and
willing person, including any society or body corporate established for the reception of poor
children or for the prevention of cruelty to children. The provisions of the acts as to procedure
and custody extend not only to the offence of cruelty but also to all offences involving bodily
injury to a child under sixteen, such as abandonment, assault, kidnapping and illegally engaging
a child in a dangerous public performance. The act of 1908 also makes an endeavour to check
the heavy mortality of infants through "overlaying,"[1] enacting that where it is proved that
the death of an infant under three years of age was caused by suffocation whilst the infant
was in bed with some other person over the age of sixteen, and that that person was at the
time of going to bed under the influence of drink, that other person shall be deemed to have
neglected the child in manner likely to cause injury to its health, as mentioned above. The
acts have been utilized with great zeal and on the whole with much discretion by various philanthropic
societies, whose members make it their business to discover the ill-treated and neglected children
of all classes in society, and particularly by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, which is incorporated under royal charter of the 28th of May 1895, for the purposes
inter alia of preventing the public and private wrongs of children, and the corruption of their
morals and of taking action to enforce the laws for their protection.

The act of 1908 enacted more stringent provisions against baby-farming (q.v.). The Infant Life
Protection Act of 1897 did not apply where only one child was taken, but now by the act of
1908, where a person undertakes for reward the nursing and maintenance of one or more infants
under the age of seven years apart from their parents or having no parents, he must give notice
in writing to the local authority within forty-eight hours from the reception of the child.
If an infant is already in the care of a person without reward and he undertakes to continue
the nursing for reward, such undertaking is a reception of the child. The notice to the local
authority must state the name, sex, date and place of birth of the infant, the name and address
of the person receiving the infant and of the person from whom the infant was received. Notice
must also be given of any change of address of the person having the care of the infant, or
of the death of the infant, or of its removal to the care of some other person, whose name
and address must also be given. It is the duty of local authorities to provide for the carrying-out
in their districts of that portion of the act which refers to nursing and maintenance of infants,
to appoint infants' protection visitors, to fix the number of infants which any person may
retain for nursing, to remove infants improperly kept, &c. Relatives or legal guardians of
an infant who undertake its nursing and maintenance, hospitals, convalescent homes, or institutions,
established for the protection and care of infants, and conducted in good faith for religious
and charitable purposes, as well as boarding schools at which efficient elementary education
is given, are exempt from the provisions of the act.

The acts of 1904 and 1908 deal with many other offences in relation to children and young persons.
The act of 1904 introduced restrictions on the employment of children which lie on the border
land between cruelty and the regulation of child labour. It prohibits custodians of children
from taking them, or letting them be, in the street or in public-houses to sing, play, perform
or sell between 9 P.M. and 6 A.M. These provisions apply to boys under fourteen and girls under
sixteen. There are further prohibitions (1) on allowing children under eleven to sing, play,
perform or be exhibited for profit, or offer anything for sale in public-houses or places of
public amusement at any hour without a licence from a justice, which is granted only as to
children over ten and under stringent conditions; (2) on allowing children under sixteen to
be trained as acrobats, contortionists, or circus performers, or for any dangerous performance;
and the Children's Dangerous Performances Act 1879, as amended in 1897, makes it an offence
to employ a male young person under sixteen and a female under eighteen in a dangerous public
performance.

The act of 1908 renders liable to a fine not exceeding £25, or alternatively, or in addition
thereto, imprisonment with or without hard labour for any term not exceeding three months,
any custodian, &c., of any child or young person who allows him to be in any street, premises
or place for the purpose of begging or receiving alms, or of inducing the giving of alms, whether
or not there is a pretence of singing, playing, performing or offering anything for sale. An
important departure in the act of 1908 was the attempt to prevent the exposure of children
to the risk of burning. Any custodian, &c., of a child under seven who allows that child to
be in a room Containing an open grate not sufficiently protected to guard against the risk
of burning or scalding is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding £10. Provision
is made against allowing children between the ages of four and sixteen to be in brothels; it
is also made a misdemeanour if any custodian, &c., of a girl under sixteen causes or encourages
her seduction or prostitution, and any person having the custody of a young girl may be bound
over to exercise proper care if it is shown to the satisfaction of a court of summary jurisdiction,
on the complaint of any person, that she is exposed to such risk.

The act of 1908, following legislation in many parts of the United States and in some of the
British colonies, places a penalty on selling tobacco to any person apparently under the age
of sixteen, whether for his own use or not. It empowers constables and park keepers to seize
tobacco in the possession of any person apparently under sixteen found smoking in any street
or public place, as well as to search them; it also empowers a court, of summary jurisdiction
to prevent automatic machines for the sale of tobacco being used by young persons. The act
also contains useful provisions empowering the clearing of a court whilst a child or young
person is giving evidence in certain cases (e.g. of decency or morality), and the forbidding
children (other than infants in arms) being present in court during the trial of other persons;
it places a penalty on pawnbrokers taking an article in pawn from children under fourteen;
and on vagrants for preventing children above the age of five receiving education. It puts
a penalty on giving intoxicating liquor to any child under the age of five, except upon the
orders of a duly qualified medical practitioner, or in case of sickness, or other urgent cause;
also upon any holder of the licence of any licensed premises who allows a child to be at any
time in the bar of the licensed premises; or upon any person who causes or attempts to cause
a child to be in the bar of licensed premises other than railway refreshment rooms or premises
used for any purpose to which the holding of a licence is merely auxiliary, or where the child
is there simply for the purpose of passing through to some other part of the premises. It makes
provision for the safety of children at entertainments, and consolidates the law relating to
reformatory and industrial schools, and to juvenile offenders (see JUVENILE OFFENDERS).

In the act of 1908, "child" is denned as a person under the age of fourteen years, and "young
person" as a person who is fourteen years and upwards and under the age of sixteen years. The
act applies to Scotland and Ireland. In the application of the act to Ireland exception is
made relative to the exclusion of children from bars of licensed premises, in the case of a
child being on licensed premises where a substantial part of the business carried on is a drapery,
grocery, hardware or other business wholly unconnected with the sale of intoxicating liquor,
and the child is there for the purpose of purchasing goods other than intoxicating liquor.

British Possessions.--Legislation much on the lines of the acts of
1889-1908 has been passed in many British possessions, e.g. Tasmania
(1895, 1906), Queensland (1896, 1905), Jamaica (1896), South Australia
(1899, 1904), New South Wales (1892 and 1900), New Zealand (1906),
Mauritius (1906), Victoria (1905,1906). In South Australia a State
Children's Department has been created to care for and manage the
property and persons of destitute and neglected children, and the
officials of the council may act in cases of cruelty to children; the
legislation of Victoria and Queensland is based on that of South
Australia. See also CHILDREN'S COURTS, EDUCATION and LABOUR LEGISLATION.
    (W. F. C.; T. A. I.)

FOOTNOTE:

    [1] There has been some doubt as to whether it is more correct to
    say a person "overlays" or "overlies" a child, and the question
    came up in committee on the bill. According to Sir J.A.H. Murray
    (see Letter in The Times, 12th of May 1908) "to lie," an
    intransitive verb, becomes transitive when combined with a
    preposition, e.g. a nurse lies over a child or overlies a child; "to
    lay" is the causal derivative of "to lie," and is followed by two
    objects, e.g. to lay the table with a cloth, or to lay a cloth on
    the table; similarly, to overlay a surface with varnish, or to
    overlay a child with a blanket, or with the nurse's or mother's
    body. The instrument can be left unexpressed, and a person can be
    said to overlay a child, i.e. with her own body, a pillow, &c. Thus,
    while "overlie" covers the case where the woman herself lies over
    the child, "overlay" is the more general word.

CHILDRENITE, a rare mineral species; a hydrous basic aluminium iron phosphate, orthorhombic
in crystallization. The ferrous oxide is in part replaced by manganous oxide and lime, and
in the closely allied and isomorphous species eosphorite manganese predominates over iron.
The general formula for the two species is Al(Fe, Mn)(OH)2PO2 + H2O. Childrenite is found only
as small brilliant crystals of a yellowish-brown colour, somewhat resembling chalybite in general
appearance. They are usually pyramidal in habit, often having the form of double six-sided
pyramids with the triangular faces deeply striated parallel to their shorter edges. Hardness
4.5-5; specific gravity 3.18-3.24. The mineral, named after the zoologist and mineralogist
J.G. Children (1777-1852), secretary of the Royal Society, was detected in 1823 on specimens
obtained some years previously during the cutting of a canal near Tavistock in Devonshire.
It has also been found in a few copper mines in Cornwall and Devonshire.

Eosphorite occurs as crystals of prismatic habit with angles very nearly the same as those
of childrenite. Unlike childrenite, it has a distinct cleavage in one direction, and often
occurs in compact masses as well as in crystals. The colour is sometimes yellowish-white, but
usually rose-pink, and on this account the mineral was named from [Greek: êosphoros], dawn-bearer.
Hardness 5; specific gravity 3.11-3.145. It was discovered in 1878 in a pegmatite-vein at Branchville,
Connecticut, where it is associated with other rare manganese phosphates.    (L. J. S.)

CHILDREN'S COURTS, or JUVENILE COURTS, a special system of tribunals for dealing with juvenile
offenders, first suggested in the United States. The germ of such institutions was planted
in Massachusetts in 1869, when a plan was introduced at Boston of hearing charges against children
separately, and apart from the ordinary business of the lesser tribunals. No great progress
was made in the development of the idea in Massachusetts, as the legal authorities were not
fully convinced of the utility or need for a separate court so long as the children were kept
strictly apart from adults, and this could be assured by a separate session. But the system
of "probation," by which children were handed over to the kindly care and guardianship of an
appointed officer, and thus escaped legal repression, was created about the same time in Boston
and produced excellent results. The probation officer is present at the judge's side when he
decides a case, and is given charge of the offender, whom he takes by the hand, either at his
parent's residence or at school, and continually supervises, having power if necessary to bring
him again before the judge. The example of Massachusetts in due course influenced other countries,
and especially the British colony of South Australia, where a State Children's Department was
created at Adelaide in 1895, and three years later a juvenile court was opened there for the
trial of persons under eighteen and was conducted with great success, though the system of
probation officers was not introduced. A juvenile court was also established at Toronto (Canada)
on the South Australian model.

The movement when once fully appreciated went ahead very rapidly. In the United States Illinois
was the first state to call a distinct children's court into existence, and Judge Richard Tuthill
was the pioneer at Chicago, where the court was established in 1899. Many states followed suit,
including New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Wisconsin, Kansas, Colorado, Indiana and others,
till the number rose to nineteen in 1906. In New York, where juvenile probation is supervised
by the Society for the Protection of Children, there is a separate children's court with rooms
attached, where the children for detention wait till they are brought in for trial. Brooklyn
has also a children's court. In Pennsylvania, where the juvenile court was at first opposed
as unconstitutional, the difficulty was met by first bringing the child before the magistrate
in the police court, a course which (though followed by his transferring the case to the special
court) perpetuated the very evils the children's court was intended to avoid; the work of probation
was, however, most effectively carried out, chiefly by female officers. The Chicago Juvenile
Court sits twice weekly under an especially appointed judge, and policemen act as probation
officers to some extent. The court of Indianapolis, however, gained the reputation of being
the most complete and perfect in the United States. It works with a large and highly efficient
band of volunteer probation officers under a chief. The juvenile court of Denver, Colorado,
attained remarkable results under Judge B. Lindsey, whose magnetic personality, wonderful comprehension
of boy nature, and extraordinary influence over them achieved great results. The court meets
once a fortnight, when fresh cases are tried and boys already on probation report themselves,
often to the number of two hundred at a time. The latter appear before the judge in batches,
each hands in his school report in a sealed letter, and according to its purport receives praise
or blame, or he may be committed to the Detention House. An efficient court was also constituted
at Baltimore, Maryland, with a judge especially chosen to preside, probation being for fixed
periods, varying from three months to three years, and children being brought back to the court
for parole or discharge, or, if necessary, committal to the house of one of the philanthropic
societies. In Washington, D.C., the system of having no distinct court or judge, but holding
a separate session, was followed, and it was found that numbers of children came to the court
for help and guidance, looking upon the judge for the time being as their friend and counsellor.
Probation in this instance offered peculiar difficulties on account of the colour question,
two-thirds of the children having negro blood and a white boy being always preferred for a
vacant situation. Throughout, the action of juvenile courts in the United States has been to
bring each individual into "human touch" with kindly helpful workers striving to lead the young
idea aright and train it to follow the straight path. It was the result always of the effort
of private persons and not due to government initiative, indeed the advocates and champions
of the system only established it by overcoming strong opposition from the authorities.

Progress in the same direction has been made in England. The home office had recommended London
police magistrates to keep children's cases separate from those of adults; the same practice
or something analogous obtained in many county boroughs, such as Bath, Birmingham, Bristol,
Bolton, Bradford, Hull, Manchester, Walsall, Halifax and others, and the Children Act 1908
definitely established children's courts. This act enacted that courts of summary jurisdiction
when hearing charges, &c., against children or young persons should, unless the child or young
person is charged jointly with an adult, sit in a different building or room from that in which
the ordinary sittings of the court are held, or on different days or at different times. Furthermore,
provision must be made for preventing persons apparently under the age of sixteen years whilst
being conveyed to or from court, or whilst waiting before or after their attendance in court,
from associating with adults, unless such adults are charged jointly with them. The act prohibits
any persons other than members and officers of the court, the parties to the case, their solicitors,
counsel and other persons directly concerned in the case, from being present in a juvenile
court, except by leave of the court. Bona-fide press representatives are also excepted. The
main object of the whole system is to keep the child, the embryotic offender who has probably
erred from ignorance or the pressure of circumstances or misfortune, altogether free from the
taint or contagion that attaches to criminal proceedings. The moral atmosphere of a legal tribunal
is injurious to the youthful mind, and children who appear before a bench, whether as accused
or as witness, gain a contemptuous familiarity with legal processes.

The most beneficial action of the children's court comes from its association with the system
of personal guardianship and close supervision exercised by the probation officers, official
and voluntary. Where the intervention of the newly constituted tribunal can not only save the
child from evil association when first arrested, but can rescue him without condemnation and
committal to prison, its functions may be relied upon to diminish crime by cutting it off at
the source. Much depends upon the quality and temperament of the presiding authority. Where
a judge with special aptitude can be appointed, firm, sympathetic, tactful and able to gain
the confidence of those brought before him, he may do great good, by dealing with each individual
and not merely with his offence, realizing that the court does not exist to condemn but to
strengthen and give a fresh chance. Where the children's court is only a branch of the existing
jurisdiction worked by the regular magistrate or judge fulfilling his ordinary functions and
not specially chosen, the beneficial results are not so noticeable.    (A. G.)

CHILDREN'S GAMES. The study of traditional games has in recent years become an important branch
of folklore research in England, and has contributed not a little towards elucidating many
unrecorded facts in early history. These games may be broadly divided into two kinds--dramatic
games, and games of skill and chance. These differ materially in their object. Games of skill
and chance are played for the purpose of winning property from a less fortunate player. The
dramatic games consist of non-singing and singing games; they are divided between boys' games
and girls' games. Boys' games are mostly of a contest character, girls' of a more domestic
type. The boys' dramatic games have preserved some interesting beliefs and customs, but the
tendency in these games, such as "prisoner's base," has been to drop the words and tune and
to preserve only that part (action) which tends best for exercise and use in school playgrounds.
The girls' singing-games have not developed on these lines, and have therefore not lost so
much of their early characteristics. The singing games consist of words, tune and action. The
words, in verse, express ideas contained in customs not now in vogue, and they may be traced
back to events taking place between men and women and between people of different villages.
The tunes are simple, and the same tune is frequently used for different games. The actions
are illustrative of the ideas to be expressed. The players represent various objects--animals,
villages and people. The singing game is therefore not a game in the usual sense of the word.
There is no element of "gambling" or playing "to win" in it--no one is richer or poorer for
it; it also requires a number of children to play together. It is really a "play," and has
survived because it has handed down some instances of custom and belief which were deeply rooted
and which made a strong appeal to the imagination of our ancestors. The singing games represent
in dramatic form the survival of those ceremonial dances common to people in early stages of
development. These dances celebrated events which served to bind the people together and to
give them a common interest in matters affecting their welfare. They were dramatic in character,
singing and action forming a part of them, and their performers were connected by ties of place
or kindred. They are probably survivals of what we might call folk drama. In these times it
was held imperative to perform religious ceremonies periodically; at sowing and harvesting
to ensure good crops; in the care of cattle and on occasions of marriage, birth and death.
These were matters affecting the welfare of the whole community. Events were celebrated with
dance, song and feasting, and no event was too trivial to be unconnected with some belief which
rendered ceremony necessary.

At first these ceremonial dances had deep religious feeling for their basis, but in process
of time they became purely secular and were performed at certain seasons only, because it was
the custom to do so. They then became recognized as beautiful or pleasing things in the life
of the people, and so continued, altering somewhat in ideas but retaining their old dramatic
forms. They were danced by old and young at festivals and holidays, these being held about
the same time of year as that at which the previous religious ceremonies had been held.

Singing games are danced principally in one of two methods, "line" and "circle." These represent
two of the early forms of dramatic action. The "line" form (two lines of players standing opposite
each other having a space of ground between them, advancing and retiring in turn) represents
two different and opposing parties engaged in a struggle or contest. This method is used in
all cases where contest is involved. The "circle" form, on the other hand, where all players
join hands, represents those occasions when all the people of one place were engaged in celebrating
events in which all were interested. Thus games celebrating sowing and harvest, and those associated
with love and marriage, are played in this form. Both these methods allow of development. The
circle varies from examples where all perform the same actions and say the same words to that
where two or more players have principal parts, the others only singing or acting in dumb show,
to examples where the singing has disappeared. The form or method of play and the actions constitute
the oldest remaining parts of the game (the words being subject to alterations and loss through
ignorance of their meaning), and it is to this form or method, the actions and the accompaniment
of song, that they owe their survival, appealing as they do to the strong dramatic instinct
of children and of uncultured folk.

It will be convenient to give a few instances of the best-known singing games. In "line" form,
a fighting game is "We are the Rovers." The words tell us of two opposing parties fighting
for their land; both sides alternately deride one another and end by fighting until one side
is victorious. Two other "line" games, "Nuts in May" and "Here come three dukes a-riding,"
are also games of contest, but not for territory. These show an early custom of obtaining wives.
They represent marriage by capture, and are played in "line" form because of the element of
contest contained in the custom. Another form, the "arch," is also used to indicate contest.

Circle games, on the contrary, show such customs as harvest and marriage, with love and courting,
and a ceremony and sanction by assembled friends. "Oats and beans and barley" and "Sally Water"
are typical of this form. The large majority of circle games deal with love or marriage and
domestic life. The customs surviving in these games deal with tribal life and take us back
to "foundation sacrifice," "well worship," "sacredness of fire," besides marriage and funeral
customs.

  Details may be found in the periodical publications of the Folk-lore
  Society, and particularly in the following works:--A.B. Gomme's
  Traditional Games of Great Britain (2 vols., Nutt, 1894-1898);
  Gomme's Children's Singing Games (Nutt, 1904.); Eckenstein's
  Comparative Studies in Nursery Rhymes (Duckworth, 1906); Maclagan,
  Games of Argyllshire, Folk-lore Society (1900); Newell's Games of
  American Children (Harper Bros., New York, 1884). In Mrs Gomme's
  Traditional Games, several versions of each game, together with a
  short account of the suggested origin and of the custom or belief
  indicated, are given for each game. In vol. ii. (pp. 458-531) a memoir
  of the history of games is given, and the customs and beliefs which
  originated them, reviewing the whole subject from the anthropological
  point of view, and showing the place which games occupy among the
  evidences of early man. In Miss Eckenstein's comparative study of
  nursery rhymes suggested origins are given for many of these, and an
  attempt made to localize certain of the customs and events. In several
  of the publications of the Folk-lore Society local collections of
  games are given, all of which may be studied with advantage. Stubbes
  and other early writers give many instances of boys' games in their
  days, many of which still exist. Tylor and other writers on
  anthropology, in dealing with savage custom, confirm the views here
  expressed. For nursery rhymes see Halliwell, Nursery Rhymes (1845),
  and Chambers's Popular Rhymes (first printed 1841, reprinted in
  1870). The recently collected Morris Dances by Mr Cecil Sharp should
  also be consulted. One of the morris dances, bean-setting, evidently
  dealing with planting or harvest, is danced in circle form, while
  others indicating fighting or rivalry are danced in line form, each
  line dancing in circle before crossing over to the opposite, side, and
  thus conforming to the laws already shown to exist in the more
  ordinary game.    (A. B. G.*)

CHILDS, GEORGE WILLIAM (1829-1894), American publisher, was born in Baltimore, Maryland, on
the 12th of May 1829. He was educated in the public schools, and after a brief term of service
in the navy, he became in 1843 a clerk in a book-shop at Philadelphia. There, in 1847, he established
an independent book-shop, and two years later organized the publishing house of Childs & Peterson.
In 1864, with Anthony J. Drexel, he purchased the Public Ledger, at that time a little known
newspaper; he completely changed its policy and methods, and made it one of the most influential
journals in the country. He died at Philadelphia on the 3rd of February 1894. Childs was widely
known for his public spirit and philanthropy. In addition to numerous private benefactions
in educational and charitable fields, he erected memorial windows to William Cowper and George
Herbert in Westminster Abbey (1877), and to Milton in St Margaret's, Westminster (1888), a
monument to Leigh Hunt at Kensal Green, a Shakespeare memorial fountain at Stratford-on-Avon
(1887), and monuments to Edgar Allan Poe and to Richard A. Proctor. He gave Woodland Cemetery
to the Typographical Society of Philadelphia for a printers' burial-ground, and with Anthony
J. Drexel founded in 1892 a home for Union printers at Colorado Springs, Colorado.

His Recollections were published at Philadelphia in 1890.

CHILE, or CHILI (derived, it is said, from the Quichua chiri, cold, or tchili, snow), a republic
of South America, occupying the narrow western slope of the continent between Peru and its
southern extremity. (For map see ARGENTINA.) It extends from the northern boundary of the province
of Tacna, about 17° 25' S., to Cape Horn at the extreme southern point of the Fuegian archipelago
in 55° 58' 40'' S., with an extreme meridian length of 2661 m., and with a coast line considerably
exceeding that figure owing to a westward curve of about 3-1/2° and an eastward trend south
of 50° S. of nearly 8°. Its mainland width ranges from about 46 to 228 m., and its area, including
the islands of the southern coast, is officially computed to be 307,774 sq. m., though the
Gotha computation (1904) places it at 293,062 sq. m. Chile is thus a ribbon-like strip of territory
between the Andes and the Pacific, comparatively regular north of the 42nd parallel, but with
an extremely ragged outline south of that line. It is bounded N. by Peru, E. by Bolivia and
Argentina, S. and W. by the Pacific. Its eastern boundary lines are described under ARGENTINA
and BOLIVIA. The war of 1879-81 with Peru and Bolivia gave to Chile 73,993 sq. m. of territory,
or one-fourth her total area. By subsequent agreements the Bolivian department of the Literal,
or Atacama, and the Peruvian department of Tarapacá, were formally ceded to Chile, and the
northern frontier was removed to the river Camarones, which enters the Pacific at 19° 12' S.
Under the treaty of Ancon (20th October 1883) Chile was to retain possession of the provinces
of Tacna and Arica belonging to the Peruvian department of Moquegua for a period of ten years,
and then submit "to popular vote whether those territories are to belong to Chile or Peru."
At the expiration of the period (1893) Chile evaded compliance with the agreement, and under
various pretexts retained forcible possession of the territory. This arbitrary retention of
Tacna and Arica, which became the province of Tacna under Chilean administration, removed the
frontier still farther north, to the river Sama, which separates that province from the remaining
part of the Peruvian department of Moquegua. Starting from the mouth of that river, in 17°
57' S., the disputed boundary follows its course in an irregular N.E. direction to its source
in the Alto do Toledo range, thence S. and E. along the water parting to the Bolivian boundary
line in the Cordillera Silillica.

  Physiography.--For purposes of general topographical description
  Chile may be divided into three regions: the desert region of the
  north, the central agricultural region between the provinces of
  Coquimbo and Llanquihue, and the heavily-forested rainy region south
  of lat. 41° S. The desert region is an elevated arid plateau
  descending gradually from the Andes towards the coast, where it breaks
  down abruptly from elevations of 800 to 1500 ft. From the sea this
  plateau escarpment has the appearance of a range of flat topped hills
  closely following the coast line. The surface is made up of extensive
  plains covered with sand and deposits of alkaline salts, broken by
  ranges of barren hills having the appearance of spurs from the Andes,
  and by irregular lateral ranges in the vicinity of the main cordillera
  enclosing elevated saline plateaus. This region is rainless, barren
  and inhospitable, absolutely destitute of vegetation except in some
  small river valleys where irrigation is possible, and on the slopes of
  some of the snow-covered peaks where the water from the melting snows
  nourishes a scanty and coarse vegetation before it disappears in the
  thirsty sands. It is very rich in mineral and saline deposits,
  however. The eastern parts of this region lie within the higher ranges
  of the Andes and include a large district awarded to Chile in 1899
  (see ARGENTINA and ATACAMA). This arid, bleak area is apparently a
  continuation southward of the great Bolivian altaplanicie, and is
  known as the Puna de Atacama. Its average elevation is estimated at
  11,000 to 12,000 ft. A line of volcanoes crosses it from north to
  south, and extensive lava beds cover a considerable part of its
  surface. Large shallow saline lakes are also characteristic features
  of this region. From 28° S. the spurs from the cordillera toward the
  coast are more sharply defined and enclose deeper valleys, where the
  cultivation of the soil becomes possible, at first through irrigation
  and then with the aid of light periodical rains. The slopes of the
  Andes are precipitous, the general surface is rough, and in the north
  the higher ground and coast are still barren. Beginning with the
  province of Aconcagua the coast elevations crystallize into a range of
  mountains, the Cordillera Maritima, which follows the shore line south
  to the province of Llanquihue, and is continued still farther south by
  the mountain range of Chiloé and the islands of the western coast,
  which are the peaks of a submerged mountain chain. Lying between this
  coast range and the Andes is a broad valley, or plain, extending from
  the Aconcagua river south to the Gulf of Ancud, a distance slightly
  over 620 m. with an average width of about 60 m. It is sometimes
  called the "Vale of Chile," and is the richest and most
  thickly-populated part of the republic. It is a highly fertile region,
  is well watered by numerous streams from the Andes, has a moderate
  rainfall, and forms an agricultural and grazing region of great
  productiveness. It slopes toward the south, and its lower levels are
  filled with lakes and with depressions where lakes formerly existed.
  It is an alluvial plain for the greater part, but contains some sandy
  tracts, as in Ñuble and Arauco; in the north very little natural
  forest is found except in the valleys and on the slopes of the
  enclosing mountain ranges, but in the south, where the rainfall is
  heavier, the plain is well covered with forest. South of 41° S. the
  country is mountainous, heavily-forested and inhospitable. There are
  only a few scattered settlements within its borders, and a few nomadic
  tribes of savages eke out a miserable existence on the coast. The
  deeply-indented coast line is filled with islands which preserve the
  general outline of the continent southward to the Fuegian archipelago,
  the outside groups forming a continuation of the Cordillera Maritima.
  The heavy and continuous rainfall throughout this region, especially
  in the latitude of Chiloé, gives rise to a large number of rivers and
  lakes. Farther south this excessive precipitation is in the form of
  snow in the Cordilleras, forming glaciers at a comparatively low level
  which in places discharge into the inlets and bays of the sea. The
  extreme southern part of this region extends eastward to the Atlantic
  entrance to the Straits of Magellan, and includes the greater part of
  the large island of Tierra del Fuego with all the islands lying south
  and west of it. There are some comparatively level stretches of
  country immediately north of the Straits, partly forested and partly
  grassy plains, where sheep farming has been established with some
  degree of success, but the greater part of this extreme southern
  territory is mountainous, cold, wet and inhospitable. The perpetual
  snow-line here descends to 3500 to 4000 ft. above sea-level, and the
  forest growth does not rise above an altitude of 1000 to 1500 ft.

    Mountains.

  It has been officially estimated that the arable lands of Chile
  comprise about twenty-five millions of acres (slightly over 39,000 sq.
  m.), or very nearly one-eighth of its total area. The desert regions
  of the north include comparatively large areas of plains and gently
  sloping surfaces, traversed by ranges of barren hills. The remainder
  of the republic, probably more than three-fifths of its surface, is
  extremely mountainous. The western slopes of the Andes, with its spurs
  and lateral ranges, cover a broad zone on the eastern side of the
  republic, and the Cordillera Maritima covers another broad zone on its
  western side from about lat. 33° to the southern extremity of Chiloé,
  or below lat. 43°. This maritime range is traversed by several river
  valleys, some of which, like the Bio-Bio, are broad and have so gentle
  a slope as to be navigable. The Andes, however, present an unbroken
  barrier on the east, except at a few points in the south where the
  general elevation is not over 5000 to 6000 ft., and where some of the
  Chilean rivers, as the Palena and Las Heras, have their sources on its
  eastern side. From the 52nd to about the 31st parallel this great
  mountain system, known locally as the Cordillera de los Andes,
  apparently consists of a single chain, though in reality it includes
  short lateral ranges at several points; continuing northward several
  parallel ranges appear on the Argentine side and one on the Chilean
  side which are ultimately merged in the great Bolivian plateau. The
  Chilean lateral range, which extends from the 29th to the 19th
  parallels, traverses an elevated desert region and possesses several
  noteworthy peaks, among which are Cerro Bolson, 16,017 ft., and Cerro
  Dona Ines, 16,706 ft. It is broken to some extent in crossing the
  province of Antofagasta, the southern division being known as the
  Sierra de Huatacondo. At the southern frontier of Bolivia the main
  chain, which has served as the boundary line between Argentina and
  Chile, divides into two great ranges, the principal one continuing
  almost due north along the eastern side of the great Bolivian
  alta-planicie, and the other forming its western rim, where it is
  known as the Cordillera Silillica, and then following the trend of the
  coast north-westward into Peru becomes the Cordillera Occidental. The
  western slopes of the Andes are precipitous, with short spurs
  enclosing deep valleys. The whole system is volcanic, and a
  considerable number of volcanoes are still intermittently active,
  noticeably in central and southern Chile. The culminating point of the
  Chilean Andes is Aconcagua, which rises to a height of 23,097 ft.

  In southern Chile the coast is highly mountainous, but the relation of
  these elevations to the Andes has not been clearly determined. The
  highest of these apparently detached groups are Mt. Macá (lat. 45°
  S.), 9711 ft., and Mt. Arenales (about 47° S. lat.), 11,286 ft.
  Cathedral Peak on Wellington Island rises to a height of 3838 ft. and
  the highest point on Taytao peninsula to 3937 ft. The coast range of
  central Chile has no noteworthy elevations, the culminating point in
  the province of Santiago being 7316 ft. Between central Chile and the
  northern desert region there is a highly mountainous district where
  distinct ranges or elongated spurs cross the republic from the Andes
  to the coast, forming transverse valleys of great beauty and
  fertility. The most famous of these is the "Vale of Quillota" between
  Valparaiso and Santiago. The Chilean Andes between Tacna and Valdivia
  are crossed by 24 passes, the majority of them at elevations exceeding
  10,000 ft. The best-known of these is the Uspallata pass between
  Santiago and the Argentine city of Mendoza, 12,870 ft. above
  sea-level. The passes of central and southern Chile are used only in
  the summer season, but those of northern Chile are open throughout the
  whole year.

  The volcanic origin of the Andes and their comparatively recent
  elevation still subject Chile, in common with other parts of the
  western coast region, to frequent volcanic and seismic disturbances.
  In some instances since European occupation, violent earthquake shocks
  have resulted in considerable elevations of certain parts of the
  coast. After the great earthquake of 1835 Captain Robert FitzRoy
  (1805-1865) of H.M.S. "Beagle" found putrid mussel-shells still
  adhering to the rocks 10 ft. above high water on the island of Santa
  Maria, 30 m. from Concepción, and Charles Darwin declares, in
  describing that disaster, that "there can be no doubt that the land
  round the bay of Concepción was upraised two or three feet." These
  upheavals, however, are not always permanent, the upraised land
  sometimes settling back to its former position. This happened on the
  island of Santa Maria after 1835. The existence of sea-shells at
  elevations of 350 to 1300 ft. in other parts of the republic shows
  that these forces, supplemented by a gradual uplifting of the coast,
  have been in operation through long periods of time and that the
  greater part of central and southern Chile has been raised from the
  sea in this way. These earthquake shocks have two distinct
  characteristics, a slight vibration, sometimes almost imperceptible,
  called a temblor, generally occurring at frequent intervals, and a
  violent horizontal or rotary vibration, or motion, also repeated at
  frequent intervals, called a terremoto, which is caused by a
  fracture or displacement of the earth's strata at some particular
  point, and often results in considerable damage. When the earthquake
  occurs on the coast, or beneath the sea in its vicinity, tidal waves
  are sometimes formed, which cause even greater damage than the
  earthquake itself. Arica has been three times destroyed by tidal
  waves, and other small towns of the north Chilean coast have suffered
  similar disasters. Coquimbo was swept by a tidal wave in 1849, and
  Concepción and Talcahuano were similarly destroyed in 1835. The great
  earthquake which partially destroyed Valparaiso in 1906, however, was
  not followed by a tidal wave. These violent shocks are usually limited
  to comparatively small districts, though the vibrations may be felt at
  long distances from the centre of disturbance. In this respect Chile
  may be divided into at least four great earthquake areas, two in the
  desert region, the third enclosing Valparaiso, and the fourth
  extending from Concepción to Chiloé. A study of Chilean earthquake
  phenomena, however, would probably lead to a division of southern
  Chile into two or more distinct earthquake areas.

    Coast.

  The coast of Chile is fringed with an extraordinary number of islands
  extending from Chiloé S. to Cape Horn, the grouping of which shows
  that they are in part the summits of a submerged mountain chain, a
  continuation southward of the Cordillera Maritima. Three groups of
  these islands, called the Chiloé, Guaytecas and Chonos archipelagoes,
  lie N. of the Taytao peninsula (lat. 45° 50' to 46° 55' S.), and with
  the mainland to the E. form the province of Chiloé. The largest of
  these is the island of Chiloé, which is inhabited. Some of the smaller
  islands of these groups are also inhabited, though the excessive
  rainfall of these latitudes and the violent westerly storms render
  them highly unfavourable for human occupation. Some of the smallest
  islands are barren rocks, but the majority of them are covered with
  forests. These archipelagoes are separated from the mainland in the
  north by the gulfs of Chacao (or Ancud) and Corcovado, 30 to 35 m.
  wide, which appear to be a submerged part of the great central valley
  of Chile, and farther south by the narrower Moraleda channel, which
  terminates southward in a confusing network of passages between the
  mainland and the islands of the Chonos group. One of the narrow parts
  of the Chilean mainland is to be found opposite the upper islands of
  this group, where the accidental juxtaposition of Magdalena island,
  which indents the continent over half a degree at this point, and the
  basin of Lake Fontana, which gives the Argentine boundary a sharp
  wedge-shaped projection westward, narrows the distance between the
  two to about 26 m. The Taytao peninsula, incorrectly called the Tres
  Montes on some maps, is a westward projection of the mainland, with
  which it is connected by the narrow isthmus of Ofqui, over which the
  natives and early missionaries were accustomed to carry their boats
  between the Moraleda Channel and Gulf of Peñas. A short ship canal
  here would give an uninterrupted and protected inside passage from
  Chacao Channel all the way to the Straits of Magellan, a distance of
  over 760 m. A southern incurving projection of the outer shore-line of
  this peninsula is known as Tres Montes peninsula, the most southern
  point of which is a cape of the same name. Below the Taytao peninsula
  is the broad open Gulf of Peñas, which carries the coast-line eastward
  fully 100 m. and is noticeably free from islands. The northern
  entrance to Messier Channel is through this gulf. Messier, Pitt,
  Sarmiento and Smyth's Channels, which form a comparatively safe and
  remarkably picturesque inside route for small steamers, about 338 m.
  in length, separate another series of archipelagoes from the mainland.
  These channels are in places narrow and tortuous. Among the islands
  which thickly fringe this part of the coast, the largest are Azopardo
  (lying within Baker Inlet), Prince Henry, Campaña, Little Wellington,
  Great Wellington and Mornington (of the Wellington archipelago), Madre
  de Dios, Duke of York, Chatham, Hanover, Cambridge, Contreras, Rennell
  and the Queen Adelaide group of small barren rocks and islands lying
  immediately north of the Pacific entrance to the Straits of Magellan.
  The large number of English names on this coast is due to the fact
  that the earliest detailed survey of this region was made by English
  naval officers; the charts prepared from their surveys are still in
  use and form the basis of all subsequent maps. None of these islands
  is inhabited, although some of them are of large size, the largest
  (Great Wellington) being about 100 m. long. It has likewise been
  determined, since the boundary dispute with Argentina called attention
  to these territories and led to their careful exploration at the
  points in dispute, that Skyring Water, in lat. 53° S., opens westward
  into the Gulf of Xaultegua, which transforms Ponsonby Land and Cordoba
  (or Croker) peninsula into an island, to which the name of Riesco has
  been given. The existence of such a channel was considered probable
  when these inland waters were first explored in 1829 by Captain
  FitzRoy, but it was not discovered and surveyed until three-quarters
  of a century had elapsed. Belonging to the Fuegian group south of the
  Straits of Magellan are Desolation, Santa Ines, Clarence, Dawson,
  Londonderry, Hoste, Navarin and Wollaston islands, with innumerable
  smaller islands and rocks fringing their shores and filling the
  channels between them.

  The western and larger part of Tierra del Fuego (q.v.) belongs to
  Chile. About 63 m. S.W. of Cape Horn, in lat. 56° 25' S., is the Diego
  Ramirez group of small, rocky islands, the most southern possession of
  the republic. Its westernmost possessions are Sala-y-Gomez and Easter
  islands, the former in about 27° S., 105° W., and the latter, the
  easternmost inhabited Polynesian island, in 27° 6' S., 109° 17' W.
  Much nearer the Chilean coast (396 m.), lying between the 33rd and
  34th parallels, are the three islands of the Juan Fernandez group, and
  rising apparently from the same submerged plateau about 500 m. farther
  north of the latter are the rocky islets of San Ambrosio and San
  Felix, all belonging to Chile. North of Chiloé there are few islands
  in close proximity to the coast. The more important of these are La
  Mocha, off the southern coast of Arauco, in lat. 38° 20' S., which is
  8 m. long and rises to an elevation of 1240 ft. above the sea; Santa
  Maria, 30 m. south-west of Concepcion, which partially encloses the
  Bay of Arauco and is well cultivated; and Quiriquina, lying off the
  port of Talcahuano in the entrance to Concepción bay. There are a few
  barren islands on the desert coast, the largest of which are between
  Coquimbo and Caldera. Since the removal of their guano deposits they
  have become practically worthless, except where they serve to shelter
  anchorages.

    Harbours.

  The coast of northern and central Chile is singularly deficient in
  good harbours. Those of the desert region are only slight indentations
  in a remarkably uniform coast-line, sheltered on one side by a point
  of land, or small island. The landings are generally dangerous because
  of the surf, and the anchorages are unsafe from storms on the
  unprotected side. Among the most frequented of these are Valparaiso,
  Coquimbo, Caldera, Iquique and Arica. There are some small harbours
  for coasting vessels of light draught along the coast of central
  Chile, usually at the partially obstructed mouths of the larger
  rivers, as San Antonio near the mouth of the Maipó, Constitución at
  the mouth of the Maule, and Llico on the outlet of Lake Vichuquen, but
  there is no harbour of importance until Conceptión (or Talcahuano) Bay
  is reached. There are three harbours on this bay, El Tomé, Penco and
  Talcahuano (q.v.), the last being the largest and best-protected port
  on the inhabited part of the Chilean coast. Immediately south of this
  bay is the large Bay of Arauco, into which the Bio-Bio river
  discharges, and on which, sheltered by the island of Santa Maria, are
  the ports of Coronel and Lota. The next important harbour is that of
  El Corral, at the mouth of the Valdivia river and 15 m. below the
  city of Valdivia. The Bay of San Carlos on the northern coast of
  Chiloé, which opens upon the narrow Chacao channel, has the port of
  Ancud, or San Carlos, and is rated an excellent harbour for vessels of
  light and medium draught. Inside the island of Chiloé the large gulfs
  of Chacao (or Ancud) and Corcovado are well protected from the severe
  westerly storms of these latitudes, but they are little used because
  the approach through the Chacao channel is tortuous and only 2 to 3 m.
  wide, and the two gulfs, though over 30 m. wide and 150 m. long, are
  beset with small rocky islands. At the north end of the first is the
  Reloncavi, a large and nearly landlocked bay, on which stands Puerto
  Montt, the southern terminus of the Chilean central railway. The large
  Gulf of Peñas, south of Taytao peninsula, is open to the westerly
  storms of the Pacific, but it affords entrance to several natural
  harbours. Among these are the Gulfs of Tres Montes and San Estevan,
  and Tarn Bay at the entrance to Messier Channel. The next 300 m. of
  the Chilean coast contain numerous bays and inlets affording safe
  harbours, but the mainland and islands are uninhabited and the climate
  inhospitable. Behind Rennell Island in lat. 52° S., however, is a
  succession of navigable estuaries which penetrate inland nearly to the
  Argentine frontier. The central part of this group of estuaries is
  called Worsley Sound, and the last and farthest inland of its arms is
  Last Hope Inlet (Ultima Esperanza), on which is situated the Chilean
  agricultural colony of Puerto Consuelo. The Straits of Magellan, about
  360 m. in length, lie wholly within Chilean territory. Midway of them
  is situated Punta Arenas, the most southern town and port of the
  republic.

    Rivers.

  Except in the extreme south the hydrography of Chile is of the
  simplest description, all the larger rivers having their sources in
  the Andes and flowing westward to the Pacific. Their courses are
  necessarily short, and only a few have navigable channels, the
  aggregate length of which is only 705 m. Nearly all rivers in the
  desert region are lost in the sands long before reaching the coast.
  Their waterless channels are interesting, however, as evidence of a
  time when climatological conditions on this coast were different. The
  principal rivers of this region are Sama (which forms the provisional
  boundary line with Peru), Tacna, Camarones, Loa, Copiapó, Huasco,
  Elqui, Limari and Choapa. The Loa is the largest, having its sources
  on the slopes of the Cordillera south of the Minho volcano, between
  21° and 21° 30' S. lat., and flowing south on an elevated plateau to
  Chiuchiu, and thence west and north in a great curve to Quillaga,
  whence its dry channel turns westward again and reaches the Pacific in
  lat. 21° 28' S., a few miles south of the small port of Huanillos. Its
  total length is estimated at 250 m. The upper courses of the river are
  at a considerable elevation above the sea and receive a large volume
  of water from the Cordilleras. The water of its upper course and
  tributaries is sweet, and is conducted across the desert in pipes to
  some of the coast towns, but in its lower course, as in all the rivers
  of this region, it becomes brackish. The Copiapó, which once
  discharged into the sea, is now practically exhausted in irrigating a
  small fertile valley in which stands the city of that name. The
  Copiapó and Huasco have comparatively short courses, but they receive
  a considerable volume of water from the higher sierras. The latter is
  also used to irrigate a small, cultivated valley. The rivers of the
  province of Coquimbo--the Elqui or Coquimbo, Limari and Choapa--exist
  under less arid conditions, and like those of the province of
  Aconcagua--the Ligua and Aconcagua--are used to irrigate a much larger
  area of cultivated territory. The central agricultural provinces are
  traversed by several important rivers, all of them rising on the
  western slopes of the snow-clad Andes and breaking through the lower
  coast range to the Pacific after being extensively used to irrigate
  the great central valley of Chile. These are the Maipó (Maypó or
  Maipú), Rapel, Mataquito, Maule, Itata, Bio-Bio, Imperial, Tolten,
  Valdivia or Calle-Calle, Bueno and Maullin. With the exception of the
  first three, these rivers have short navigable channels, but they are
  open only to vessels of light draught because of sand-bars at their
  mouths. The largest is the Bio-Bio, which has a total length of 220
  m., 100 of which are navigable. These rivers have been of great
  service in the agricultural development of this part of Chile,
  affording means of transportation where railways and highways were
  entirely lacking. Some of the larger tributaries of these rivers,
  whose economic value has been equally great, are the Mapocho, which
  flows through Santiago and enters the Maipó from the north; the
  turbulent Cachapoal, which joins the Rapel from the north; the Claro,
  which waters an extensive part of the province of Talca and enters the
  Maule from the north; the Ñuble, which rises in the higher Andes north
  of the peaks of Chillan and flows entirely across the province of
  Ñuble to join the Itata on its western frontier; the Laja, which rises
  in a lake of the same name near the Argentine frontier in about lat.
  35° 30' S. and flows almost due west to the Bio-Bio; and the Cautin,
  which rises in the north-east corner of Cautin and after a tortuous
  course westward nearly across that province forms the principal
  confluent of the Imperial. The unsettled southern regions of Chiloé
  (mainland) and Magallanes are traversed by a number of important
  rivers which have been only partially explored. They have their
  sources in the Andes, some of them on the eastern side of the line of
  highest summits. The Puelo has its origin in a lake of the same name
  in Argentine territory, and flows north-west through the Cordilleras
  into an estuary (Reloncavi Inlet) of the Gulf of Reloncavi at the
  northern end of the Gulf of Chacao. Its lower course is impeded in
  such a manner as to form three small lakes, called Superior, Inferior
  and Taguatagua. A large northern tributary of the Puelo, the Manso,
  has its sources in Lake Mascardi and other lakes and streams
  south-east of the Cerro Tronador, also in Argentina, and flows
  south-west through the Cordilleras to unite with the Puelo a few miles
  west of the 72nd meridian. The Reloncavi Inlet also receives the
  outflow of Lake Todos los Santos through a short tortuous stream
  called the Petrohue. The Comau Inlet and river form the boundary line
  between the provinces of Llanquihue and Chiloé, and traverse a densely
  wooded country in a north-westerly direction from the Andes to the
  north-eastern shore of the Gulf of Chacao. Continuing southward, the
  Yelcho is the next important river to traverse this region. It drains
  a large area of Argentine territory, where it is called the Rio
  Fetaleufu or Fetalauquen, its principal source being a large lake of
  the same name. It flows south-west through the Andes, and then
  north-west through Lake Yelcho to the Gulf of Corcovado. The Argentine
  colony of the 16th of October, settled principally by Welshmen from
  Chubut, is located on some of the upper tributaries of this river, in
  about lat. 43° S. The Palena is another river of the same character,
  having its source in a large frontier lake called General Paz and
  flowing for some distance through Argentine territory before crossing
  into Chile. It receives one large tributary from the south, the Roo
  Pico, and enters an estuary of the Gulf of Corcovado a little north of
  the 44th parallel. The Frias is wholly a Chilean river, draining an
  extensive Andean region between the 44th and 45th parallels and
  discharging into the Puyuguapi channel, which separates Magdalena
  island from the mainland. The Aisen also has its source in Argentine
  territory near the 46th parallel, and drains a mountainous region as
  far north as the 45th parallel, receiving numerous tributaries, and
  discharging a large volume of water into the Moraleda channel in about
  lat. 45° 20' S. The lower course of this river is essentially an
  inlet, and is navigable for a short distance. The next large river is
  the Las Heras, or Baker, through which the waters of Lakes Buenos
  Aires and Pueyrredon, or Cochrane, find their way to the Pacific. Both
  of these large lakes are crossed by the boundary line. The Las Heras
  discharges into Martinez Inlet, the northern part of a large estuary
  called Baker or Calen Inlet which penetrates the mainland about 75 m.
  and opens into Tarn Bay at the south-east corner of the Gulf of Peñas.
  Azopardo (or Merino Jarpa) island lies wholly within this great
  estuary, while at its mouth lies a group of smaller islands, called
  Baker Islands, which separate it from Messier Channel. The course of
  the Las Heras from Lake Buenos Aires is south and south-west, the
  short range of mountains in which are found the Cerros San Valentin
  and Arenales forcing it southward for an outlet. Baker Inlet also
  receives the waters of still another large Argentine-Chilean lake, San
  Martin, whose far-reaching fjord-like arms extend from lat. 49° 10' to
  48° 20' S.; its north-west arm drains into the Tero, or La Pascua,
  river. Lake San Martin lies in a crooked deeply cut passage through
  the Andes, and the divide between its southern extremity (Laguna Tar)
  and Lake Viedma, which discharges through the Santa Cruz river into
  the Atlantic, is so slight as to warrant the hypothesis that this was
  once a strait between the two oceans. After a short north-westerly
  course the Toro discharges into Baker Inlet in lat. 48° 15' S., long.
  73° 24' W. South of the Toro there are no large rivers on this coast,
  but the narrow fjords penetrate deeply into the mountains and bring
  away the drainage of their snow-capped, storm-swept elevations. A
  peculiar network of fjords and connecting channels terminating inland
  in a peculiarly shaped body of water with long, widely branching arms,
  called Worsley Sound, Obstruction Sound and Last Hope Inlet, covers an
  extensive area between the 51st and 53rd parallels, and extends nearly
  to the Argentine frontier. It has the characteristics of a tidewater
  river and drains an extensive region. The sources of the Argentine
  river Coile are to be found among the lakes and streams of this same
  region, within Chilean territory. A noteworthy peculiarity of southern
  Chile, from the Taytao peninsula (about 46° 50' S. lat.) to Tierra del
  Fuego, is the large number of glaciers formed on the western and
  southern slopes of the Cordilleras and other high elevations, which
  discharge direct into these deeply cut estuaries. Some of the larger
  lakes of the Andes have glaciers discharging into them. The formation
  of these icy streams at comparatively low levels, with their discharge
  direct into tidewater estuaries, is a phenomenon not to be found
  elsewhere in the same latitudes.

    Lakes.

  The lakes of Chile are numerous and important, but they are found
  chiefly in the southern half of the republic. In the north the only
  lakes are large lagoons, or morasses, on the upper saline plateaus
  between the 23rd and 28th parallels. They are fed from the melting
  snows and periodical storms of the higher Andes, and most of them are
  completely dry part of the year. Their waters are saturated with
  saline compounds, which in some cases have considerable commercial
  value. In central Chile above the Bio-Bio river the lakes are small
  and have no special geographical interest, with the exception perhaps
  of the Laguna del Maule, in 36° 7' S., and Laguna de la Laja, in 37°
  20', which lie in the Andes near the Argentine frontier and are
  sources of the two rivers of the same names. Below the Bio-Bio river
  there is a line of large picturesque lakes extending from the province
  of Cautin, south through that of Llanquihue, corresponding in
  character and position to the dry lacustrine depressions extending
  northward in the same valley. They lie on the eastern side near the
  Cordilleras, and serve the purpose of great reservoirs for the
  excessive precipitation of rain and snow on their western slopes. With
  one exception they all drain westward into the Pacific through short
  and partly navigable rivers, and some of the lakes are also utilized
  for steamship navigation. These lakes are Villarica on the southern
  frontier of Cautin, Rinihue and Ranco in Valdivia, and Puyehue,
  Rupanco, Llanquihue and Todos los Santos in Llanquihue. The largest of
  the number are Lakes Ranco and Llanquihue, the former with an
  estimated area of 200 sq. m. and the latter of 300 sq. m. Lake Todos
  los Santos is situated well within the Andean foothills north-east of
  Puerto Montt and at an elevation of 509 ft., considerably above that
  of the other lakes, Lake Ranco being 230 ft. above sea-level. The
  great Andean lakes of General Paz (near the 44th parallel), Buenos
  Aires (in lat. 46° 30' S.), Pueyrredon, or Cpchrane (47° 15' S.) and
  San Martin (49° S.), lie partly within Chilean territory. In the
  extreme south are Lagoa Blanca, a large fresh-water lake in lat. 52°
  30' S., and two large inland salt-water sounds, or lagoons, called
  Otway Water and Skyring Water, connected by FitzRoy Passage.

  Geology.--Chile may be divided longitudinally into two regions which
  differ from each other in their geological structure. Along the coast
  lies a belt of granite and schist overlaid unconformably by Cretaceous
  and Tertiary deposits; inland the mountains are formed chiefly of
  folded Mesozoic beds, together with volcanic rocks of later date. The
  great longitudinal valley of Chile runs approximately, but only
  approximately, along the boundary between the two zones. Towards the
  north the coastal zone disappears beneath the sea and the Andean zone
  reaches to the shore. The ancient rocks which form the most
  characteristic feature of the former do indeed occur upon the coast of
  Peru, but in the north of Chile they are found only in isolated masses
  standing close to the shore or, as at Mejillones, projecting into the
  sea. South of Antofagasta the old rocks form a nearly continuous band
  along the coast, extending as far as Cape Horn and Staten Island, and
  occupying the greater part of the islands of southern Chile.
  Lithologically they are crystalline schists, together with granite,
  diorite, gabbro and other igneous rocks. They are known to be
  pre-Jurassic, but whether they are Palaeozoic or Archaean is
  uncertain. They are strongly folded and are overlaid unconformably by
  Cretaceous and Tertiary deposits. In the north both the Cretaceous and
  Tertiary beds of this zone are limited in extent, but towards the
  south Mesozoic beds, which are at least in part Cretaceous, form a
  band of considerable width. The Tertiary beds include both marine and
  terrestrial deposits, and appear to be chiefly of Miocene and Pliocene
  age. The whole of the north part of Tierra del Fuego is occupied by
  plateaus of horizontal Tertiary strata.

  The Chilean Andes correspond with the Western Cordillera of Bolivia
  and Peru, and consist almost entirely of Jurassic and Cretaceous beds,
  together with the products of the Tertiary eruptions. The Mesozoic
  beds are thrown into a series of parallel folds which run in the
  direction of the chain and which are generally free from any
  complications such as overthrusting or overfolding. The Cretaceous
  beds form a synclinal upon the eastern side of the chain (and, in
  general, beyond the Chilean boundary), while the Jurassic beds are
  thrown into a number of folds which form the axis and the western
  flank. Through the Mesozoic beds are intruded granitic and other
  igneous rocks of Tertiary age, and upon the folded Mesozoic foundation
  rise the volcanic cones of Tertiary and later date. The Trias is known
  only at La Ternera near Copiapó, where coal-seams with Rhaetic plants
  have been found; but the rest of the Mesozoic series, from the Lias to
  the Upper Cretaceous, appears to be represented without a break of
  more than local importance. The deposits are marine, consisting mainly
  of sandstone and limestone, together with tuffs and conglomerates of
  porphyry and porphyrite. These porphyritic rocks form a characteristic
  feature of the southern Andes, and were at one time supposed to be
  metamorphic; but they are certainly volcanic, and as they contain
  marine fossils they must have been laid down beneath the sea. They are
  not confined to any one horizon, but occur irregularly throughout the
  Jurassic and occasionally also amongst the Cretaceous strata. They
  form, in fact, a special facies which may frequently be traced
  laterally into the more normal marine deposit of the same age. The
  fauna of the Mesozoic beds is very rich, and includes forms which are
  found in northern Europe, others which occur in central Europe, and
  others again which are characteristic of the Mediterranean region. It
  lends no support to Neumayr's theory of climatic zones. A large part
  of the chain is covered by the products of the great volcanoes which
  still form the highest summits of the Chilean and Argentine Andes. The
  rocks are liparites, dacites, hornblende and pyroxene andesites. The
  recent lavas of the still active volcanoes of the south are
  olivine-bearing hypersthene-andesite and basalt.[1]

  Climate.--The climate of Chile varies widely, from the tropical
  heat and extreme arid conditions of the northern coast to the low
  temperatures and extreme humidity of western Tierra del Fuego and the
  southern coast. The high altitudes of the Andean region also introduce
  vertical zones of temperature, modified to some extent by the rainless
  plateaus of the north, and by the excessive rainfall of the south. In
  general terms it may be said that the extremes of temperature are not
  so great as in corresponding latitudes of the northern hemisphere,
  because of the greater expanse of water in comparison with the land
  areas, the summers being cooler and the winters warmer. The cold
  antarctic, or Humboldt, current sweeps northward along the coast and
  greatly modifies the heat of the arid, tropical plateaus. The climate
  of northern and central Chile is profoundly affected by the high
  mountain barrier on the eastern frontier and by the broad treeless
  pampas of Argentina, which raise the easterly moisture-laden winds
  from the Atlantic to so high an elevation that they sweep across Chile
  without leaving a drop of rain. At very rare intervals light rains
  fall in the desert regions north of Coquimbo, but these are brought by
  the prevailing coast winds. With this exception these regions are the
  most arid on the face of the globe, highly heated by a tropical sun
  during the day and chilled at night by the proximity of snow-covered
  heights and a cold ocean current. Going south the temperature slowly
  falls and the rainfall gradually increases, the year being divided
  into a short rainy season and a long, dry, cloudless season. At
  Copiapó, in 27° 22' S., 1300 ft. above the sea, the mean annual
  temperature is 60° and the rainfall about 1 in., but at Coquimbo, in
  29° 56' S., the temperature is 59.2° and the rainfall 1½ in. At
  Santiago, in 33° 27' S., 1755 ft. above the sea, the mean temperature
  is 54° and the annual rainfall 16½ in., though the latter varies
  considerably. The number of rainy days in the year averages about 21.
  At Talca, in 35° 36' S. and 334 ft. above sea-level, the mean annual
  temperature is nearly one degree above that of Santiago, but the
  rainfall has increased to 19.7 in. The long dry season of this region
  makes irrigation necessary, and vegetation has something of a
  subtropical appearance, palms growing naturally as far south as 37°.
  The climate is healthy and agreeable, though the death-rate among the
  common people is abnormally high on account of personal habits and
  unsanitary surroundings. In southern Chile the climate undergoes a
  radical change--the prevailing winds becoming westerly, causing a long
  rainy season with a phenomenal rainfall. The plains as well as the
  western slopes of the Andes are covered with forest, the rivers become
  torrents, and the sky is covered with heavy clouds a great part of the
  year. At Valdivia, in 39° 49' S. and near the sea-level, the mean
  annual temperature is 52.9° and the annual rainfall 108 to 115 in.,
  with about 150 rainy days in the year. These meteorological conditions
  are still more accentuated at Ancud, at the north end of the island of
  Chiloé, in 41° 46' S., where the mean annual temperature is 50.7° and
  the annual rainfall 134 in. The equable character of the climate at
  this point is shown by the limited range between its summer and winter
  temperatures, the mean for January being 56.5° and the mean for July
  45.9°. The almost continual cloudiness is undoubtedly a principal
  cause, not only of the low summer temperatures, but also of the
  comparatively high winter temperatures. Frosts are infrequent, and
  snow does not lie long. The climate is considered to be healthful
  notwithstanding the excessive humidity. The 600 m. of coast from the
  Chonos Archipelago south to the Fuegian islands have a climate closely
  approximating that of the latter. It is wet and stormy all the year
  through, though the rainfall is much less than that of Ancud and
  Valdivia. The line of perpetual snow, which is 6000 ft. above
  sea-level between lat. 41° and 43°, descends to 3500 (to 4000) ft. in
  Tierra del Fuego, affording another indication of the low maximum
  temperatures ruling during the summer. At the extreme south, where
  Chilean territory extends across to the Atlantic entrance to the
  Straits of Magellan, a new climatic influence is encountered in the
  warm equatorial current flowing down the east coast of South America,
  which gives to eastern Tierra del Fuego a higher temperature than that
  of the western shore. The Andes, although much broken in these
  latitudes, also exert a modifying influence on these eastern
  districts, sheltering them from the cold westerly storms and giving
  them a drier climate. This accounts for the surprising meteorological
  data obtained from Punta Arenas, in 53° 10' S., where the mean annual
  temperature is 43.2° and the annual rainfall only 22.5 in. Other
  observations reduce this annual precipitation to less than 16 in.
  According to observations made by the Swedish Antarctic Expedition
  (1901-1903), at Orange Bay, Hoste Island, in lat. 55° 31' S., long.
  68° 05' W., which is more exposed to the westerly storms, the mean
  temperature for 11 months was 41.98° and the total precipitation (rain
  and snow) 53.1 in. The mean maximum temperature was 49.24°, and the
  mean minimum 35.83°. The observations showed 284 days with rain or
  snow, of which 70 were with snow.

  Flora.--The indigenous flora of Chile is less extensive and less
  interesting than those of Argentina and Brazil, but contains many
  peculiar genera and species. A classification of this flora
  necessitates its division into at least three general zones--the
  desert provinces of the north, central Chile, and the humid regions of
  the south. The first is an arid desert absolutely barren along part of
  the coast, between Tacna and Copiapó, but with a coarse scanty
  vegetation near the Cordilleras along watercourses and on the slopes
  where moisture from the melting snows above percolates through the
  sand. In the valleys of the Copiapó and Huasco rivers a meagre
  vegetation is to be found near their channels, apart from what is
  produced by irrigation, but the surface of the plateau and the dry
  river channels below the sierras are completely barren. Continuing
  southward into the province of Coquimbo a gradual change in the arid
  conditions may be observed. The higher summits of the Cordilleras
  afford a larger and more continuous supply of water, and so dependent
  are the people in the cultivated river valleys on this source of water
  supply that they watch for snowstorms in the Cordilleras as an
  indication of what the coming season is to be. The arborescent growth
  near the mountains is larger and more vigorous, in which are to be
  found the "algarrobo" (Prosopis siliquastrum) and "chañar"
  (Gourliea chilensis), but the only shrub to be found on the coast is
  a species of Skytanthus. Near the sierras where irrigation is
  possible, fruit-growing is so successful, especially the grape and
  fig, that the product is considered the best in Chile. In regard to
  the indigenous flora of this region John Ball[2] says: "The species
  which grow here are the more or less modified representatives of
  plants which at some former period existed under very different
  conditions of life." Proceeding southward cacti become common, first a
  dwarfed species, and then a larger columnar form (Cereus quisco).
  The streams are fringed with willows; fruit trees and alfalfa fields
  fill the irrigated valleys, and the lower mountain slopes are better
  covered with a thorny arborescent growth. The divides between the
  streams, however, continue barren as far south as the transverse
  ranges of mountains across the province of Aconcagua.

  To some degree the flora of central Chile is of a transition character
  between the northern and southern zones. It is much more than this,
  however, for it has a large number of genera and species peculiarly
  its own. A large majority of the 198 genera peculiar to the South
  American temperate regions belong exclusively to central Chile. This
  zone extends from about the 30th to the 36th parallel, perhaps a
  little farther south to include some characteristic types. The
  evergreens largely predominate here as well as in the extreme south,
  and on the open, sunburnt plains the vegetation takes on a subtropical
  aspect. One of the most characteristic trees of this zone is the
  peumo (Cryptocarya peumus), whose dense evergreen foliage is
  everywhere conspicuous. The quillay (Quillaja saponaria) is
  another characteristic evergreen tree of this region, whose bark
  possesses saponaceous properties. In earlier times the coquito palm
  (Jubaea spectabilis) was to be found throughout this part of Chile,
  but it has been almost completely destroyed for its saccharine sap,
  from which a treacle was made. One of the most striking forest trees
  is the pehuen or Chilean pine (Araucaria imbricata), which often
  grows to a height of 100 ft. and is prized by the natives for its
  fruit. Three indigenous species of the beech--the roble (Fagus
  obliqua), coyhue (F. Dombeyi), and rauli (F. procera)--are
  widely diffused and highly prized for their wood, especially the
  first, which is misleadingly called roble (oak). Most of the woods
  used in construction and manufactures are found between the Bio-Bio
  river and the Taytao peninsula, among which are the alerce
  (Fitzroya patagonica), ciprés or Chiloé cypress (Libocedrus
  tetragona), the Chilean cypress (L. Chilensis), lingue (Persea
  lingue), laurel (Laurus aromatica), avellano (Guevina
  avellana), luma (Myrtus luma), espino (Acacia cavenia) and
  many others. Several exotic species have been introduced into this
  part of Chile, some of which have thriven even better than in their
  native habitats. Among these are the oak, elm, beech (F. sylvatica),
  walnut, chestnut, poplar, willow and eucalyptus. Through the central
  zone the plains are open and there are forests on the mountain slopes,
  but in the southern zone there are no plains, with the exception of
  small areas near the Straits of Magellan, and the forests are
  universal. In the variety, size and density of their growth these
  forests remind one of the tropics. They are made up, in great part, of
  the evergreen beech (Fagus betuloides), the deciduous antarctic
  beech (F. antarctica),[3] and Winter's bark (Drimys Winteri),
  intermingled with a dense undergrowth composed of a great variety of
  shrubs and plants, among which are Maytenus magellanica, Arbutus
  rigida, Myrtus memmolaria, two or three species of Berberis, wild
  currant (Ribes antarctica), a trailing blackberry, tree ferns,
  reed-like grasses and innumerable parasites. On the eastern side of
  the Cordillera, in the extreme south, the climate is drier and open,
  and grassy plains are found, but on the western side the dripping
  forests extend from an altitude of 1000 to 1500 ft. down to the level
  of the sea. A peculiar vegetable product of this inclement region is a
  small globular fungus growing on the bark of the beech, which is a
  staple article of food among the Fuegians--probably the only instance
  where a fungus is the bread of a people.

  It is generally conceded that the potato originated in southern Chile,
  as it is found growing wild in Chiloé and neighbouring islands and on
  the adjacent mainland. The strawberry is also indigenous to these
  latitudes on both sides of the Andes, and Chile is credited with a
  species from which the cultivated strawberry derives some of its best
  qualities. Maize and quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa) were known in Chile
  before the arrival of Europeans, but it is not certain that they are
  indigenous. Species of the bean and pepper plant are also indigenous,
  and the former is said to have been cultivated by the natives. Among
  the many economic plants which have been introduced into Chile and
  have become important additions to her resources, the more prominent
  are wheat, barley, hemp and alfalfa (Medicago sativa), together with
  the staple European fruits, such as the apple, pear, peach, nectarine,
  grape, fig, olive and orange. The date-palm has also been introduced
  into the southern provinces of the desert region. Among the marine
  productions on the southern coast, a species of kelp, Macrocystis
  pyrifera, merits special mention because of its extraordinary length,
  its habit of clinging to the rocks in strong currents and turbulent
  seas, and its being a shelter for innumerable species of marine
  animals. Captain FitzRoy found it growing from a depth of 270 ft.

  Fauna.--The fauna of Chile is comparatively poor, both in species
  and individuals. A great part of the northern deserts is as barren of
  animal life as of vegetation, and the dense humid forests of the south
  shelter surprisingly few species. There are no large mammals in all
  this extensive region except the Cetacea and a species of the
  Phocidae of southern waters. Neither are there any dangerous species
  of Carnivora, which are represented by the timid puma (Felis
  concolor), three species of wildcats, three of the fox, two of
  Conepatus, a weasel, sea-otter and six species of seal. The rodents
  are the most numerously represented order, which includes the coypu
  or nutria (Myopotamus coypus), the chinchilla (Chinchilla
  laniger), the tuco-tuco (Ctenomys brasiliensis), a rabbit, and 12
  species of mice--in all some 12 genera and 25 species. The coypu,
  sometimes called the South American beaver, inhabits the river-banks,
  and is highly prized for its fur. It is also found along the
  river-courses of Argentina. The ruminants are represented by a few
  species only--the guanaco (Auchenia huanaco), vicuna (A.
  vicugna), huemul (Cervus chilensis), which appears on the Chilean
  escutcheon, and the pudu deer, a small and not very numerous
  species. There are two species of the Edentata, Dasypus and
  Pichiciego, the latter very rare, and one of the opossums. European
  animals, such as horses, cattle, sheep, swine and goats, have been
  introduced into the country and do well. Sheep-raising has also been
  inaugurated with some degree of success in the vicinity of the Straits
  of Magellan. The avifauna, with the exception of waterfowl, is also
  limited to comparatively few species. Birds of prey are represented by
  the condor, vulture, two species of the carrion-hawk (Polyborus),
  and owl. The Chilean slopes of the Andes appear to be a favourite
  haunt of the condor, where neighbouring stock-raisers suffer severe
  losses at times from its attacks. The Insessores are represented by
  a number of species. Parrots are found as far south as Tierra del
  Fuego, where Darwin saw them feeding on seeds of the Winter's bark.
  Humming-birds have a similar range on this coast, one species
  (Mellisuga Kingii) being quite numerous as far south as Tierra del
  Fuego. A characteristic genus is that of Pteroptochus, of which
  there are three or four species each characterized by some conspicuous
  peculiarity. These are P. megapodius, called El Turco by the
  natives, which is noticeable for its ungainly appearance and awkward
  gait; the P. albicollis, which inhabits barren hillsides and is
  called tapacollo from the manner of carrying its tail turned far
  forward over its back; the P. rubecula, of Chiloé, a small timid
  denizen of the gloomy forest, called the cheucau or chuca, whose
  two or three notes are believed by the superstitious natives to be
  auguries of impending success or disaster; and an allied species
  (Hylactes Tarnii, King) called the guid-guid or barking bird,
  whose cry is a close imitation of the yelp of a small dog. The
  southern coast and its inland waters are frequented by several species
  of petrel, among which are the Procellaria gigantea, whose strength
  and rapacity led the Spaniards to call it quebranta huesos
  (breakbones), the Puffinus cinereus, which inhabits the inland
  channels in large flocks, and an allied species (Puffinuria
  Berardii) which inhabits the inland sounds and resembles the auk in
  some particulars of habit and appearance. There are numerous species
  in these sheltered channels, inlets and sounds of geese, ducks, swans,
  cormorants, ibises, bitterns, red-beaks, curlew, snipe, plover and
  moorhens. Conspicuous among these are the great white swan (Cygnus
  anatoides), the black-necked swan (Anser nigricollis), the
  antarctic goose (Anas antarctica) and the "race-horse" or "steamer
  duck" (Micropterus brachypterus).

  The marine fauna is less known than the others, but it is rich in
  species and highly interesting in its varied forms and
  characteristics. The northern coast has no sheltered waters of any
  considerable extent, and the shore slopes abruptly to a great depth,
  which gives it a marine life of no special importance. In the shoal
  waters about Juan Fernandez are found a species of codfish (possibly
  Gadus macrocephalus), differing in some particulars from the
  Newfoundland cod, and a large crayfish, both of which are caught for
  the Valparaiso market. The sheltered waters of the broken southern
  coast, however, are rich in fish and molluscs, especially in mussels,
  limpets and barnacles, which are the principal food resource of the
  nomadic Indian tribes of those regions. A large species of barnacle,
  Balanus psittacus, is found in great abundance from Concepción to
  Puerto Montt, and is not only eaten by the natives, by whom it is
  called pico, but is also esteemed a great delicacy in the markets of
  Valparaiso and Santiago. Oysters of excellent flavour are found in
  the sheltered waters of Chiloé. The Cetacea, which frequent these
  southern waters, are represented by four species--two dolphins and the
  sperm and right whale--and the Phocidae by six species, one of which
  (Phoca lupina) differs but little from the common seal. Another
  species (Macrorhinus leoninus), popularly known as the sea-elephant,
  is provided with short tusks and a short trunk and sometimes grows to
  a length of 20 ft. Still another species, the sea-lion (Otaria
  jubata), furnishes the natives of Tierra del Fuego with an acceptable
  article of food, but like the Phoca lupina it is becoming scarce.

  Of Reptilia Chile is singularly free, there being recorded only eleven
  species--five saurians, four ophidians, one frog and one toad--but a
  more thorough survey of the uninhabited territories of the south may
  increase this list. There are no alligators in the streams, and the
  tropical north has very few lizards. There are no poisonous snakes in
  the country, and, in a region so filled with lakes and rivers as the
  rainy south, only two species of batrachians. The insect life of these
  strangely associated regions is likewise greatly restricted by adverse
  climatic conditions, a considerable part of the northern desert being
  absolutely barren of animal and vegetable life, while the climate of
  Tierra del Fuego and the southern coast is highly unfavourable to
  terrestrial animal life, for which reason comparatively few species
  are to be found. Writing of a journey inland from Iquique, Charles
  Darwin says (Journal of Researches, &c., p. 444): "Excepting the
  Vultur aura, ... I saw neither bird, quadruped, reptile, nor
  insect." Of his entomological collection in Tierra del Fuego, which
  was not large, the majority were of Alpine species. Moreover, he did
  not find a single species common to that island and Patagonia. These
  conditions subsist with but few modifications, if any, from the
  Straits northward to the 42nd parallel, the extreme humidity, abnormal
  rainfall and dark skies being unfavourable to the development of
  insect life, while the Andes interpose an impassable barrier to
  migration from the countries of the eastern coast. The only venomous
  species to be found in central Chile is that of a spider which
  frequents the wheat fields in harvest time.

Population.--The population of Chile is largely concentrated in the twelve agricultural provinces
between and including Coquimbo and Concepción, though the next six provinces to the south,
of more recent general settlement, have received some foreign immigrants, and are rapidly growing.
In the desert provinces the population is limited to the mining communities, and to the ports
and supply stations maintained for their support and for the transport, smelting and export
of their produce. The province of Atacama has, in addition to its mining population, a considerable
number of agriculturists located in a few irrigated river valleys, which class is largely increased
in the adjoining province of Coquimbo. The more northern provinces, however, maintain their
populations without the support of such small cultivated areas. In the southern territories
unfavourable conditions of a widely different character prevail, and the population is restricted
to a few small settlements and some nomadic tribes of Indians. Here, however, there are localities
where settlements could be maintained by ordinary means and the population could be greatly
increased. Since the census of 1895 the population of Punta Arenas has been largely increased
by the discovery of gold in the vicinity. The twelve provinces first mentioned, which include
the celebrated "Vale of Chile," comprise only 17% of the area of the republic, but the census
of 1895 showed that 72% of the total population was concentrated within their borders. The
four desert provinces north of Coquimbo had only 8% of the total, and the seven provinces and
one territory south of Concepción had 20%. According to the census of 1895 the total population
was 2,712,145, to which the census officials added 10% to cover omissions. This shows an increase
slightly over 7% for the preceding decennial period, the population having been returned as
2,527,320 in 1885. The census returns of 1875 and 1866 gave respectively 2,068,447 and 2,084,943,
showing an actual decrease in population. During these years Chile held the anomalous position
of a country spending large sums annually to secure immigrants while at the same time her own
labouring classes were emigrating by thousands to the neighbouring republics to improve their
condition. Writing in 1879, a correspondent of The Times[4] stated that this emigration then
averaged 8000 a year, and in bad times had reached as many as 30,000 in one year. The condition
of the Chilean labourer has been much improved since then, however, and Chile no longer suffers
so serious a loss of population. In 1895, the foreigners included in the Chilean population
numbered 72,812, of which 42,105 were European, 29,687 American, and 1020 Asiatic, &c. According
to nationality there were 8269 Spanish, 7809 French, 7587 Italian, 7049 German, 6241 British,
1570 Swiss, 1490 Austro-Hungarian, 13,695 Peruvian, 7531 Argentine, 6654 Bolivian, 701 American
(U.S.), 797 Chinese. According to residence, 1,471,792 were inhabitants of rural districts,
and 1,240,353 of towns. The registration of births, marriages and deaths is compulsory since
the 1st of January 1885, but the provisions of the law are frequently eluded. Notwithstanding
the healthiness of the climate, the death-rate is high, especially in the large cities. In
Santiago and Valparaiso the death-rate sometimes rises to 42 and 60 per 1000, and infant mortality
is very high, being 73% of the births in some of the provincial towns. This unfavourable state
of affairs is due to the poverty, ignorance and insanitary habits of the lower classes. The
government has made repeated efforts to secure immigrants from Europe, but the lands set apart
for immigrant settlers are in the forested provinces south of the Bio-Bio, where the labour
and hardships involved in establishing a home are great, and the protection of the law against
bandits and criminal assaults is weak. The Germans have indeed settled in many parts of these
southern provinces since 1845, and by keeping together have succeeded in building up several
important towns and a large number of prosperous agricultural communities. One German authority
(Hüber) estimates the number of Germans in two of these provinces at 5000. The arrivals, however,
have been on the whole discouragingly small, the total for the years 1901-1905 being only 14,000.

Although Chileans claim a comparatively small admixture with the native races, it is estimated
that the whites and creoles of white extraction do not exceed 30 to 40% of the population,
while the mestizos form fully 60%. This estimate is unquestionably conservative, for there
has been no large influx of European blood to counterbalance the race mixtures of earlier times.
The estimated number of Indians living within the boundaries of Chile is about 50,000, which
presumably includes the nomadic tribes of the Fuegian archipelago, whose number probably does
not reach 5000. The semi-independent Araucanians, whose territory is slowly being occupied
by the whites, are concentrated in the eastern forests of Bio-Bio, Malleco and Cautin, all
that remains to them of the Araucania which they so bravely and successfully defended for more
than three centuries. Their number does not much exceed 40,000, which is being steadily reduced
by drunkenness and epidemic diseases. A small part of these Indians live in settled communities
and include some very successful stock-raisers, but the greater part live apart from civilization.
There are also some remnants of tribes in the province of Chiloé, which inhabit the island
of that name, the Chonos and Guaytecas archipelagoes and the adjacent mainland, who have the
reputation of being good boatmen and fishermen; and there are remnants of a people called Changos,
on the desert coast, and traces of Calchaqui blood in the neighbouring Andean foothills.

There is a wide difference in every respect between the upper or ruling class and the common
people. The former includes the landed proprietors, professional men and a part of those engaged
in commercial and industrial pursuits. These educated classes form only a small minority of
the population. Many of them, especially the landed proprietors, are descendants of the original
Spanish settlers and are celebrated for their politeness and hospitality. The political control
of the republic was secured to them by the constitution of 1833. The common people were kept
in ignorance and practically in a state of hopeless servitude. They were allowed to occupy
small leaseholds on the large estates on condition of performing a certain amount of work for
the landlord. Every avenue toward the betterment of their condition was practically closed.
The condition of the itinerant labourers (peons) was still worse, the wages paid them being
hardly sufficient to keep them from starvation. The Chilean peon, however, comes from a hardy
stock, and has borne all these hardships with a fortitude and patience which go far to counterbalance
his faults. Recent reforms in education, &c., together with the growth of manufacturing industries,
are slowly leading to improvements in the material condition of the common people.

The political organization of the country has not been favourable to the development of artistic
or scientific tastes, though Chile has produced political leaders, statesmen and polemical
writers in abundance. Historical literature has been enriched by the works of Diego Barros
Arana, Benjamin Vicuña Mackenna, Miguel Luis Amunátegui, Carlos Walker Martinez, and others.
One of the earliest native histories of Chile was that of Abbé J. Ignacio Molina, an English
translation of which has long been a recognized authority; it is full of errors, however, and
should be studied only in connexion with modern standard works. Among these must be included
Claude Gay's monumental work, Historia General de Chile, and Sir C.R. Markham's admirable studies
on special parts of the subject. In science, nearly all the important work has been done by
foreigners, among whom are Charles Darwin, Claude Gay, Eduard Pöppig, Rudolph A. Philippi and
Hans Steffen, who deserves special mention for his excellent geographical work in the southern
Andes.

  Divisions and Towns.--Chile contains 23 provinces and one territory,
  which are subdivided into 75 departments, 855 subdelegations and 3068
  districts. The territory north of the Bio-Bio was originally divided
  into 13 provinces, besides which the Spaniards held Chiloé, Juan
  Fernandez and Valdivia, the latter being merely a military outpost.
  During the years which have elapsed since the War of Independence the
  territory south of the Bio-Bio has been effectively occupied and
  divided into six provinces, Chiloé and the neighbouring islands and
  mainland to the east became a province, and four provinces in the
  northern deserts were acquired from Bolivia and Peru. In addition to
  this, Chile claimed Patagonia and the adjacent islands, and has
  finally secured not only the forested strip of territory west of the
  Andes, but also a large piece of the Patagonian mainland, south of
  lat. 52° S., the larger part of Tierra del Fuego, and all the western
  islands. This extensive region, comprising an area of 71,127 sq. m.,
  has been provisionally organized as the territory of Magallanes. For a
  list of provinces, their areas, reduced from official returns, their
  populations, and the names and populations of their capitals, see the
  bottom of this page.

  +------------------+--------+-----------+-------------+-------------------+
  |                  |        |           |             |    Population.    |
  |    Provinces.    |  Area. |Population.|  Capitals.  +---------+---------+
  |                  |        |  Census   |             | Census  |   Est.  |
  |                  |        |   1895.   |             |  1895.  |   1902. |
  +------------------+--------+-----------+-------------+---------+---------+
  |Tacna             |  9,251 |   24,160  |Tacna        |   9,418 |  11,504 |
  |Tarapacá          | 18,131 |   89,751  |Iquique      |  33,031 |  42,788 |
  |Antofagasta       | 46,611 |   44,035  |Antofagasta  |  13,530 |  16,084 |
  |Atacama           | 30,729 |   59,713  |Copiapo      |   9,301 |   8,991 |
  |Coquimbo          | 13,461 |  160,898  |La Serena    |  15,712 |  19,536 |
  |Aconcagua         |  5,487 |  113,165  |San Felipe   |  11,313 |  11,660 |
  |Valparaiso        |  1,953 |  220,756  |Valparaiso   | 122,447 | 142,282 |
  |Santiago          |  5,665 |  415,636  |Santiago     | 256,403 | 332,059 |
  |O'Higgins         |  2,342 |   85,277  |Rancagua     |   6,665 |   7,133 |
  |Colchagua         |  3,856 |  157,566  |San Fernando |   7,447 |   8,164 |
  |Curicó            |  2,978 |  103,242  |Curicó       |  12,669 |  14,340 |
  |Talca             |  3,840 |  128,961  |Talca        |  33,232 |  42,766 |
  |Lináres           |  3,942 |  101,858  |Lináres      |   7,331 |   7,256 |
  |Maule             |  2,475 |  119,791  |Cauquenes    |   8,574 |   9,895 |
  |Nuble             |  3,407 |  152,935  |Chillan      |  28,738 |  36,382 |
  |Concepción        |  3,252 |  188,190  |Concepción   |  39,837 |  49,351 |
  |Arauco            |  2,458 |   59,237  |Lebú         |   2,784 |   3,178 |
  |Bio-Bio           |  5,246 |   88,749  |Los Angeles  |   7,868 |   7,777 |
  |Malleco           |  2,973 |   98,032  |Angol        |   7,056 |   7,638 |
  |Cautin            |  5,832 |   78,221  |Temuco       |   7,078 |   9,699 |
  |Valdivia          |  8,649 |   60,687  |Valdivia     |   8,060 |   9,704 |
  |Llanquihue        | 45,515 |   78,315  |Puerto Montt |   3,480 |   4,140 |
  |Chiloé            |  8,593 |   77,750  |Ancud        |   3,182 |   3,787 |
  |Magallanes (Ter.) | 71,127 |    5,170  |Punta Arenas |   3,227 |   8,327 |
  |                  +--------+-----------+             |         |         |
  |Total, official   | 307,774| 2,712,145 |             |         |         |
  |Total according to|        |           |             |         |         |
  | Gotha computation| 293,062|           |             |         |         |
  |With 10% added for|        |           |             |         |         |
  | omissions        |        | 2,983,359 |             |         |         |
  |Official estimate |        |           |             |         |         |
  | for 1902         |        | 3,173,783 |             |         |         |
  +------------------+--------+-----------+-------------+---------+---------+

  In addition to the provincial capitals there are few towns of
  importance. Among these may be mentioned:--

  +------------------+---------------------+
  |                  |     Population.     |
  |                  +----------+----------+
  |                  |   1895.  |Est. 1902.|
  +------------------+----------+----------+
  | Arica            |   2,853  |   2,824  |
  | Pisagua          |   3,635  |   4,720  |
  | Taltal           |   5,834  |   6,574  |
  | Tocopilla        |   3,383  |   4,752  |
  | Vallenar         |   5,052  |   5,199  |
  | Coquimbo         |   7,322  |   8,165  |
  | Ovalle           |   5,565  |   5,772  |
  | Los Andes (Santa |          |          |
  |   Rosa)          |   5,504  |   6,854  |
  | Quillota         |   9,621  |   9,876  |
  | Vina del Mar     |  10,651  |    ...   |
  | Melipilla        |   4,286  |   5,023  |
  | Rengo            |   6,463  |   7,232  |
  | Vichuquen        |     826  |   3,714  |
  | Molina           |   3,609  |   3,222  |
  | Parral           |   8,586  |  10,219  |
  | Constitución     |   6,400  |   6,453  |
  | San Carlos       |   7,051  |   6,579  |
  | Coronel          |   4,575  |   5,959  |
  | Lota             |   9,797  |    ...   |
  | Talcahuano       |  10,431  |  13,499  |
  | El Tomé          |   3,977  |   6,189  |
  | Arauco           |   3,008  |   3,334  |
  | Cañete           |   2,000  |   2,552  |
  | Mulchen          |   4,268  |   4,332  |
  | Traiguen         |   5,732  |   7,099  |
  | Victoria         |   6,989  |  10,002  |
  | La Unión         |   2,830  |   3,908  |
  | Osorno           |   4,667  |   5,888  |
  | Castro (Chiloé)  |   1,035  |   2,166  |
  +------------------+----------+----------+

  The population is not concentrated in large cities, but is well
  distributed through the cultivated parts of the country. The large
  number of small towns, important as ports, market towns, or
  manufacturing centres, is a natural result. Many of the foregoing
  towns are only villages in size, but their importance is not to be
  measured in this way. Arica is one of the oldest ports on the coast,
  and has long been a favoured port for Bolivian trade because the
  passes through the Cordilleras at that point are not so difficult.
  Moreover, the railway from Arica to La Paz will still further add to
  its importance, though it may not greatly increase its population.
  Another illustration is that of Vichuquen, province of Curicó,
  situated on a tide-water lake on the coast, which is the centre of a
  large salt-making industry. Still another instance is that of Castro,
  the oldest settlement and former capital of Chiloé, which after a
  century of decay is increasing again through the efforts to develop
  the industries of that island.

  Communications.--Railway construction in Chile dates from 1850, when
  work was begun on a short line between Copiapó and the port of
  Caldera, in the Atacama desert region. Since then lines have been
  built by private companies from the coast at several points to inland
  mining centres. One of these, running from Antofagasta to the
  Caracoles district, was afterwards extended to Oruro, Bolivia, and has
  become a commercial route of international importance, with a total
  length of 574 m., 224 of which are in Chile. It should be remembered
  that many of these railway enterprises of the desert region originated
  at a time when the territory belonged to Bolivia and Peru. The first
  railway to be constructed in central Chile was the government line
  from Valparaiso to Santiago, 115 m. in length, which was opened to
  traffic in 1863. About the same time the government began the
  construction of a longitudinal trunk line running southward from
  Santiago midway between the Andes and the Coast range, and connecting
  with all the provincial capitals and prominent ports. This is the only
  railway "system" it is possible for Chile to have. The civil war of
  1891 called attention to the need of a similar inland route through
  the northern provinces. A branch of the Valparaiso and Santiago line
  runs to Los Andes, and its extension across the Andes connects with
  the Argentine lines from Buenos Aires to Mendoza and the Chilean
  frontier--all sections together forming a transcontinental route about
  850 m. in length. The Transandine section of this route crosses the
  Cordillera through the Uspallata pass. A further Transandine scheme
  provides for a line through the Pino Hachado pass (38° 30' to 39° S.),
  and the Argentine Great Southern Company obtained a concession in 1909
  to extend its Neuquen line to the frontier of Chile. The railways of
  the republic had a total mileage at the end of 1906 of 2950 m., of
  which 1495 m. were owned by the state, and 1455 m. belonged to private
  companies. The private lines are located in the northern provinces and
  are for the most part built and maintained for the transportation of
  mining products and supplies.

  In addition to her railway lines Chile has about 21,000 m. of public
  roads of all descriptions, 135 m. of tramways, and 705 m. of navigable
  river channels, besides a very considerable mileage of lake and coast
  navigation. Telegraphic communication between all the important towns
  of the republic, initiated in 1855 with a line between Santiago and
  Valparaiso, is maintained by the state, which in 1903 owned 9306 m. of
  line in a total of 11,080 m. Cable communication with Europe by way of
  Buenos Aires was opened in 1875, and is now maintained by means of two
  underground cables across the Andes, 32 m. in length. A West Coast
  cable also connects with Europe and North American states by way of
  Panama. There were 15,853 m. of telephone wires in the republic in
  1906, all the principal cities having an admirable service. Modern
  postal facilities date from 1853. The Chilean post-office is
  administered by a director-general at Santiago, and has a high degree
  of efficiency and liberality, compared with those of other South
  American states. The postal rates are low, and newspapers and other
  periodical publications circulate free, as a means of popular
  instruction. The postal revenues for 1904 amounted to 2,775,730 pesos
  and the expenditures to 2,407,753 pesos. Chile is a member of the
  International Postal Union, and has arrangements with the principal
  commercial nations for the exchange of postal money values.

  The sea has been the only means of communication with distant parts of
  the country, and must continue to be the chief transportation route.
  There are said to be 56 ports on the Chilean coast, of which only 12
  are prominent in foreign trade. Many of the so-called ports are only
  landing-places on an open coast, others are on shallow bays and
  obstructed river-mouths, and some are little-known harbours among the
  channels and islands of the south. The prosperity of Chile is
  intimately connected with her ocean-going trade, and no elaborate
  system of national railway lines and domestic manufactures can ever
  change this relationship. These conditions should have developed a
  large merchant marine, but the Chileans are not traders and are
  sailors only in a military sense. In 1905 their ocean-going merchant
  marine consisted of only 148 vessels, of which 54 were steamers of
  42,873 tons net, and 94 were sailing vessels of 39,346 tons. Nineteen
  of the 54 steamers belonged to a subsidized national line whose West
  Coast service once extended to San Francisco, California, and a large
  part of the others belongs to a Lota coal-mining and copper-smelting
  company which employs them in carrying coal to the northern ports and
  bringing back metallic ores for smelting. The navigable rivers and
  inland lakes employ a number of small steamers. The foreign commerce
  of the republic is carried chiefly by foreign vessels, and the
  coasting trade is also open to them. Three or four foreign companies
  maintain a regular steamship service to Valparaiso and other Chilean
  ports. The shipping entries at all Chilean ports during the year 1904,
  both national and foreign, numbered 11,756, aggregating 17,723,138
  tons, and the clearances 11,689, aggregating 17,370,763 tons. Very
  nearly one-half this tonnage was British, a little over 18% German,
  and about 29% Chilean.

  Commerce.--In the aggregate, the commerce of Chile is large and
  important; in proportion to population it is exceeded among South
  American states only by Argentina, Uruguay and the Guianas. Unlike
  those states, it depends in great part on mining and its allied
  occupations. The values of imports and exports (including bullion,
  specie and re-exports) in pesos of 18d. during the five years
  1901-1905 were as follows:--

             Imports.           Exports.
    Year.     pesos.             pesos.

    1901    139,300,766       171,844,976
    1902    132,428,204       185,879,965
    1903    149,081,524       210,442,144
    1904    164,874,928       232,493,598
    1905    188,596,418       265,209,192

  The principal imports comprise live animals, fish, coffee, maté (Ilex
  paraguayensis), tea, sugar, wood and its manufactures, structural
  iron and steel, hardware and machinery, railway and telegraph
  supplies, lime and cement, glass and earthenware, cotton, woollen and
  silk manufactures, coal, petroleum, paints, &c. Import duties are
  imposed at the rates of 60, 35, 15, 5 and 25%, and certain classes of
  merchandise are admitted free. The higher rates are designed chiefly
  to protect national industries, while wines, liquors, cigars and
  tobacco are admitted at the lowest rate. The 25% rate covers all
  articles not mentioned in the schedules, which number 2260 items. The
  duty free list includes raw cotton, certain descriptions of live
  animals, agricultural machinery and implements, metal wire, fire
  engines, structural iron and steel, and machinery in general. The
  tariff is nominally ad valorem, but as the rates are imposed on
  fixed official valuations it is essentially specific. The duties on
  imports in 1905 amounted to 91,321,860 pesos, and in 1906 to
  103,507,556 pesos. The principal exports are gold, silver, copper
  (bars, regulus and ores), cobalt and its ores, lead and its ores,
  vanadium ores, manganese, coal, nitrate of soda, borate of lime,
  iodine, sulphur, wheat and guano. Nitrate of soda forms from 70 to 75%
  of the exports, and the royalty received from it is the principal
  source of national revenue, yielding about £4,000,000 per annum. In
  1904 mineral products made up fully seven-eighths of the exports,
  while agricultural and pastoral products did not quite reach
  one-eighth.

  Agriculture.--According to the census returns about one-half the
  population of Chile lives in rural districts, and is engaged nominally
  in agricultural pursuits. What may be called central Chile is
  singularly well adapted to agriculture. The northern part of this
  region has a sub-tropical climate, light rainfall and a long, dry
  summer, but with irrigation it produces a great variety of products.
  Alfalfa, or lucerne (Medicago sativa), is grown extensively for
  shipment to the mining towns of the desert provinces. There were no
  less than 108,384 acres devoted to it in 1904, a considerable part of
  which was in the irrigated river valleys of Coquimbo and Aconcagua.
  Considerable attention is also given to fruit cultivation in these
  subtropical provinces, where the orange, lemon, fig, melon, pineapple
  and banana are produced with much success. Some districts, especially
  in Coquimbo, have gained a high reputation for the excellence of their
  preserved fruits. The vine is cultivated all the way from Atacama and
  Coquimbo, where excellent raisins are produced, south to Concepción,
  where some of the best wines of Chile are manufactured. In 1904 there
  were 93,370 acres devoted to grape production in this region, the
  product for that year being 30,184,704 gallons of wine and 212,366
  gallons of brandy. The universal beverage of the people--chicha--is
  made from Indian corn. Although wheat is produced in the northern part
  of this region, it is grown with greater success in the south, where
  the rainfall is heavier and the average temperature is lower. There
  were 1,044,025 acres devoted to this cereal in 1903, which produced
  17,910,614 bushels, or an average of 17 bushels (of 60 lb) to the
  acre. In 1904 the production was increased to 19,999,324 bushels, but
  in 1905 it fell off to 15,771,477 bushels. At one time Chile supplied
  Argentina and the entire West Coast as far north as California with
  wheat, but Argentina and California have become wheat producers and
  exporters, and Chile has been driven from all her old consuming
  markets. Great Britain is now her best customer, and Brazil takes a
  small quantity for milling mixtures. Chile has been badly handicapped
  by her crude methods of cultivation, but these are passing away and
  modern methods are taking their place. Formerly wheat was grown
  chiefly in the region of long rainless summers, and the ripened grain
  was thrown upon uncovered earth floors and threshed by horses driven
  about over the straw, but this antiquated process was not suited to
  the climate and enterprise of the more southern provinces, and the
  modern threshing-machine has been introduced. Barley is largely
  produced, chiefly for home consumption. Maize (Indian corn) is grown
  in every part of Chile except the rainy south where the grain cannot
  ripen, and is a principal article of food. The green maize furnishes
  two popular national dishes, choclos and humitas, which are eaten
  by both rich and poor. Potatoes also are widely cultivated, but the
  humid regions of the south, particularly from Valdivia to Chiloé,
  produce the greatest quantity. The total annual production exceeds
  three million bushels. The kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) is
  another staple product in every part of the country, and is perhaps
  the most popular article of food among all classes of Chileans. Peas
  are largely cultivated south of the Maule. Walnuts have become another
  important product and are exported, the average annual produce being
  48,000 to 50,000 bushels. The olive was introduced from Spain in
  colonial times and is widely distributed through the north central
  provinces, but its economic importance is not great. Of the European
  fruits introduced into the southern provinces, the apple has been the
  most successful. It grows with little care and yields even better than
  in its original home. The peach, apricot, plum, quince and cherry are
  also cultivated with success. Wild strawberries are found on both
  sides of the Andes; the cultivated varieties are unsurpassed,
  especially those of the province of Concepción.

  The pastoral industries of Chile have been developed chiefly for the
  home market. The climate is admirably suited to cattle-raising, as the
  winters are mild and pasture is to be found throughout the whole year,
  but the proximity of the Argentine pampas is fatal to its profitable
  development. The government has been trying to promote cattle-breeding
  by levying duties (as high as 16 pesos a head) on cattle imported from
  Argentina, but with no great success. The importation, which formerly
  numbered about 140,000 per annum, still numbers not far from 100,000
  head. There are some districts in central Chile where cattle-raising
  is the principal occupation, but the long dry summers limit the
  pasturage on the open plains and prevent the development which perhaps
  would otherwise result. As in Argentina, beef is generally dried in
  the sun to make charqui (jerked beef), in which form it is exported
  to the desert provinces. Horse and mule breeding are carried on to a
  limited extent, and since the opening of the far South more attention
  has been given to sheep. Goats and swine are raised in small numbers
  on the large estates, but in Chiloé swine-raising is one of the chief
  occupations of the people. Some attention has been given to the
  production of butter and cheese, but the industry has attained no
  great importance. A new industry which has made noteworthy progress,
  however, is that of bee-keeping, which is greatly favoured by the mild
  climate and the long season and abundance of flowers.

  Manufactures.--The manufacturing interests of Chile have become
  influential enough to force a high tariff policy upon the country.
  They have been restricted principally to articles of necessity--food
  preparations, beverages, textiles and wearing apparel, leather and
  leatherwork, woodwork, pottery, chemicals, ironware, &c. In earlier
  days, when Chile had less competition in the production of wheat,
  flour mills were to be found everywhere in the wheat-producing
  provinces, and flour was one of the leading exports. Concepción,
  Talca, and other provincial capitals developed important milling
  industries, which were extended to all the chief towns of the newer
  provinces south of the Bio-Bio. There are over 500 large flour mills
  in Chile, the greater part of which are equipped with modern
  roller-process machinery. The development of the coal deposits in the
  provinces of Concepción and Arauco has made possible other industries
  besides those of smelting mineral ores, and numerous small
  manufacturing establishments have resulted, especially in Santiago,
  Valparaiso, Copiapó and other places where no permanent water power
  exists. Tanning leather is an important industry, especially in the
  south, some of the Chilean trees, notably the algarrobilla
  (Balsamocarpon brevifolium) and lingue (Persea lingue) being
  rich in tannin. To provide a market for the leather produced,
  factories have been established for the manufacture of boots and
  shoes, harness and saddles, and under the protection of a high tariff
  are doing well. Brewing and distilling have made noteworthy progress,
  the domestic consumption of their products being very large. The
  breweries are generally worked by Germans and are situated chiefly in
  the south, though there are large establishments in Santiago and
  Valparaiso. Small quantities of their products are exported. Furniture
  and carriage factories, cooperages, and other manufactories of wood
  are numerous and generally prosperous. There are likewise a large
  number of factories for canning and preserving fruits and vegetables.
  Foundries and machine shops have been established, especially for the
  manufacture of railway material. The sugar beet has been added to the
  productions of Chile, and with it the manufacture on a small scale of
  beet sugar. There is one large refinery at Viña del Mar, however,
  which imports raw cane sugar from Peru for refining. The manufacture
  of textiles is carried on at Santiago and El Tomé, and numerous small
  factories are devoted to clothing of various descriptions. The great
  mining industries have led to a noteworthy development in the
  production of chemicals, and a considerable number of factories are
  engaged in the production of pharmaceutical preparations, perfumeries,
  soaps, candles, &c.

  Mining.--The most important of all the national industries, however,
  is that of mining. In 1903 there were 11,746 registered mines, on
  which mining dues were paid, the aggregate produce being valued at
  178,768,170 pesos. These mines gave employment to 46,592 labourers, of
  whom 24,445 were employed by the nitrate companies, 13,710 in various
  metalliferous mines, 6437 in coal mines, and 2000 in other mines. Gold
  is found in nearly all the provinces from Antofagasta to Concepción,
  and in Llanquihue, Chiloé and Magallanes territory, but the output is
  not large. There are a great many placer washings, among which are
  some extensive deposits near the Straits of Magellan. Silver is found
  principally on the elevated slopes and plateaus of the Andes in the
  desert provinces of the north. The second most important mining
  industry in Chile, however, is that of copper, which is found in the
  provinces of Antofagasta, Atacama, Coquimbo, Aconcagua, Valparaiso,
  Santiago, O'Higgins, Colchagua, Curicó and Talca, but the richest
  deposits are in the three desert provinces. Chile was once the largest
  producer of copper in the world, her production in 1860-1864 being
  rated at 60 to 67% of the total. Low prices afterwards caused a large
  shrinkage in the output, but she is still classed among the principal
  producers. Iron mining has never been developed in Chile, although
  extensive deposits are said to exist. Manganese ores are mined in
  Atacama and Coquimbo, and their export is large. The other metals
  reported in the official returns are lead, cobalt and vanadium, of
  which only small quantities are produced. Bolivian tin is exported
  from Chilean ports. Among the non-metallic minerals are nitrate of
  soda, borate of lime, coal, salt and sulphur, together with various
  products derived from these minerals, such as iodine, sulphuric acid,
  &c. Guano is classed among the mineral products and still figures as
  an export, though the richest Chilean deposits were exhausted long
  before the war with Peru. Of non-metallic products nitrate of soda is
  by far the most important. Extensive deposits of the salt (called
  caliche in its crude, impure state) in the provinces of Tacna,
  Tarapacá, Antofagasta and Atacama owe their existence to the rainless
  character of the climate. Those of the first-named province have been
  discovered since the war between Chile and Peru, and have greatly
  extended the prospective life of the industry. The nitrate fields,
  which lie between 50 and 100 m. from the coast and at elevations
  exceeding 2000 ft. above sea-level, have been officially estimated at
  89,177 hectares (344 sq. m.) and to contain 2316 millions of metric
  quintals (254,760,000 short tons). The first export of nitrates was in
  1830, and in 1884 it reached an aggregate of 550,000 tons, and in 1905
  of 1,603,140 tons. The latter figure is apparently about the
  production agreed upon between the Chilean government and the nitrate
  companies to prevent overproduction and a resulting decline in price.
  Nearly all the oficinas, or working plants, are owned and operated
  by British companies, and the railways of this desolate region are
  generally owned by the same companies and form a part of the working
  plant. Borate of lime also furnishes another important export, though
  a less valuable one than nitrate of soda. Extensive deposits of borax
  and common salt have been found in the same region, which with several
  other products of these saline deposits, such as iodine, add
  considerably to its exports. The coal deposits of Chile are found
  chiefly in the provinces of Concepción and Arauco, the principal mines
  being on the coast of the Bay of Arauco at Coronel and Lota. Coal is
  found also in Valdivia, on the island of Chiloé, and in the vicinity
  of Punta Arenas on the Straits of Magellan. Sulphur is found in the
  volcanic regions of the north, but the principal mines are in the
  provinces of Talca.

The relative magnitude and value of these mineral products may be seen in the following abstract
from the official returns of 1903:--

  +-----------------------+---------------+------------+-------------+
  |                       |     Unit.     |  Quantity. | Value pesos |
  |                       |               |            |  (of 18d.). |
  +-----------------------+---------------+------------+-------------+
  | Gold                  |    grammes    |  1,424,625 |   1,745,115 |
  | Silver                |       "       | 39,012,382 |   1,284,308 |
  | Copper                |    kilogrs.   | 29,923,132 |  21,438,397 |
  | Lead                  |       "       |     70,984 |       9,097 |
  | Cobalt ore            |       "       |    284,990 |      99,695 |
  | Lead and Vanadium ores|       "       |      2,000 |             |
  | Manganese ore         |       "       | 17,110,000 |     682,400 |
  | Coal                  |      tons     |    827,112 |   8,250,720 |
  | Nitrates              |metric quintals| 14,449,200 | 140,102,012 |
  | Iodine                |    kilogrs.   |    157,444 |   1,687,327 |
  | Borates               |       "       | 16,878,913 |   2,363,048 |
  | Salt                  |metric quintals|    162,635 |     324,270 |
  | Sulphur               |    kilogrs.   |  3,440,642 |     337,515 |
  | Sulphuric acid        |       "       |  1,600,000 |     176,000 |
  | Guano                 |metric quintals|    111,335 |     267,466 |
  | Various               |    kilogrs.   |        200 |         800 |
  +-----------------------+---------------+------------+-------------+

Government.--Chile is a centralized republic, whose government is administered under the provisions
of the constitution of 1833 and the amendments of the 9th of August 1888, the 11th of August
1890, the 20th of August 1890, the 22nd of December 1891, and the 7th of July 1892. According
to this constitution the sovereignty resides in the nation, but suffrage is restricted to married
citizens over twenty-one and unmarried citizens over twenty-five years of age, not in domestic
service, who can read and write, and who are the owners of real estate, or who have capital
invested in business or industry, or who receive salaries or incomes proportionate in value
to such real estate as investment; and as 75% of the population is classed as illiterate, and
a great majority of the labouring classes is landless, badly paid, and miserably poor, it is
apparent that political sovereignty in Chile is the well-guarded possession of a small minority.
The dominant element in this minority is the rich landholding interest, and the constitution
and the laws of the first half-century were framed for the special protection of that interest.

The supreme powers of government are vested in three distinct branches--legislative, executive
and judicial. The legislative power is exercised by a national congress, which consists of
two chambers---a senate of 32 members, and a chamber of deputies of 94 members. The membership
of the lower house is in the proportion of one deputy for each 30,000 of the departmental population,
and each fraction over 15,000; and the senate is entitled to one-third the membership of the
chamber. The senators are elected by provinces and by a direct cumulative vote, and hold office
for six years, one-half of the senate being renewed every three years. The deputies are elected
by departments and by a direct cumulative vote, and hold office for three years. Both senators
and deputies must have reached the age of thirty-six, must have a specified income, and are
required to serve without salary. A permanent committee of 14 members represents the two chambers
during the congressional recess and exercises certain supervisory and advisory powers in the
administration of public affairs. Congress convenes each year on the 1st of June and sits until
the 1st of September, but the president may prorogue an ordinary session for a period of 50
days, and with the consent of the council of state may convene it in extraordinary session.
Congress has the privilege of giving or withholding its confidence in the acts of the government.

The executive is a president who is elected for a term of five years and is ineligible for
the next succeeding term. He is chosen by electors, who are elected by departments in the manner
prescribed for deputies and in the proportion of three electors for each deputy. These elections
are held on the 25th of June in the last year of a presidential term, the electors cast their
votes on the 25th of July, and the counting takes place in a joint session of the two chambers
of congress on the 30th of August, congress in joint session having the power to complete the
election when no candidate has been duly chosen by the electors. The formal installation of
the president takes place on the 18th of September, the anniversary of the declaration of national
independence. In addition to the prerogatives commonly invested in his office, the president
is authorized to supervise the judiciary, to nominate candidates for the higher ecclesiastical
offices, to intervene in the enforcement of ecclesiastical decrees, papal bulls, &c., to exercise
supervisory police powers, and to appoint the intendants of provinces and the governors of
departments, who in turn appoint the sub-delegates and inspectors of subordinate political
divisions. The president, who is paid £2250 per annum, must be native-born, not less than thirty
years of age, and eligible for election to the lower house. He is assisted and advised by a
cabinet of six ministers whose departments are: interior, foreign affairs, worship and colonization,
justice and public instruction, war and marine, finance, industry and public works. In case
of a vacancy in the presidential office, the minister of interior becomes the "vice-president
of the republic" and discharges the duties of the executive office until a successor can be
legally elected. A council of state of 12 members, consisting of the president, 6 members appointed
by congress and 5 by the president, has advisory functions, and its approval is required in
many executive acts and appointments.

The provinces are administered by intendentes, and the departments by gobernadores, both appointees
of the national executive. The sub-delegacies are governed by sub-delegados appointed by the
governors, and the districts by inspectores appointed by the sub-delegates. Directly and indirectly;
therefore, the administration of all these political divisions is in the hands of the president,
who, in like manner, makes and controls the appointments of all judicial functionaries, subject,
however, to receiving recommendations of candidates from the courts and to submitting appointments
to the approval of the council of state. This gives the national executive absolute control
of all administrative matters in every part of the republic. The police force also is a national
organization under the immediate control of the minister of interior, and the public prosecutor
in every department is a representative of the national government. There is no legislative
body in any of these political divisions, nor any administrative official directly representing
the people, with this exception: under the law of the 22nd of December 1891, municipalities,
or communes, are created and invested with certain specified powers of local government affecting
local police services, sanitation, local improvements, primary instruction, industrial and
business regulations, &c.; they are authorized to borrow money for sanitary improvements, road-making,
education, &c., and to impose certain specified taxes for their support; these municipalities
elect their own alcaldes, or mayors, and municipal councils, the latter having legislative
powers within the limits of the law mentioned.

  Justice.--The judicial power consists of a Supreme Court of Justice
  of seven members located in the national capital, which exercises
  supervisory and disciplinary authority over all the law courts of the
  republic; six courts of appeal, in Tacna, Serena, Valparaiso,
  Santiago, Talca and Concepción; tribunals of first instance in the
  department capitals; and minor courts, or justices of the peace, in
  the sub-delegacies and districts. The jury system does not exist in
  Chile, and juries are unknown except in cases where the freedom of the
  press has been abused. All trials, therefore, are heard by one or more
  judges, and appeals may be taken from a lower to a higher court. The
  government is represented in each department by a public prosecutor.
  The police officials, who are under the direct control of the
  minister of interior, also exercise some degree of judicial authority.
  This force is essentially military in its organization, and consisted
  in 1901 of 500 officers, 934 non-commissioned officers and 5400 police
  soldiers. Small forces of local policemen are supported by various
  municipalities. The judges of the higher courts are appointed by the
  national executive, and those of the minor tribunals by the federal
  official governing the political division in which they are located.

  Army.--For military purposes the republic is divided into five
  districts, the northern desert provinces forming the first, the
  central provinces as far south as the Bio-Bio the second and third,
  and the southern provinces and territory the fourth and fifth. Large
  sums of money have been expended in arms, equipment, guns and
  fortifications. The army is organized on the German model and has been
  trained by European officers who have been employed both for the
  school and regiment. Though the president and minister of war are the
  nominal heads of the army, its immediate direction is concentrated in
  a general staff comprising six service departments, at the head of
  which is a chief of staff. After the triumph of the revolutionists in
  the civil war of 1891, the army was reorganized under the direction of
  Colonel Emil Körner, an accomplished German officer, who subsequently
  served as chief of the general staff. In 1904 the permanent force
  consisted of 12 battalions of infantry, 6 regiments of cavalry, 4
  regiments of mountain artillery, 1 regiment of horse artillery, 2
  regiments of coast artillery, and 5 companies of
  engineers--aggregating 915 officers and 4757 men. To this nucleus were
  added 6160 recruits, the contingent for that year of young men
  twenty-one years of age compelled to serve with the colours. Under the
  law of the 5th of September 1900, military service is obligatory for
  all citizens between eighteen and forty-five years, all young men of
  twenty-one years being required to serve a certain period with the
  regular force. After this period they are transferred to the 1st
  reserve for 9 years, and then to the 2nd reserve. The military rifle
  adopted for all three branches of the service is the Mauser, 1895
  model, of 7 mm. calibre, and the batteries are provided with Krupp
  guns of 7 and 7.5 cm. calibre. Military instruction is given in a
  well-organized military school at Santiago, a war academy and a school
  of military engineering.

  Navy.--The Chilean navy is essentially British in organization and
  methods, and all its best fighting ships were built in British yards.
  In 1906 the effective fighting force consisted of 1 battle ship, 2
  belted cruisers, 4 protected cruisers, 3 torpedo gunboats, 6
  destroyers and 8 modern torpedo boats. In addition to these there are
  several inferior armed vessels of various kinds which bring the total
  up to 40, not including transports and other auxiliaries. The
  administration of the navy, under the president and minister of war
  and marine, is confided to a general naval staff, called the
  "Direccion jeneral de la Armada," with headquarters at Valparaiso. Its
  duties also include the military protection of the ports, the
  hydrographic survey of the coast, and the lighthouse service. The
  personnel comprises about 465 officers, including those of the
  staff, and 4000 petty officers and men. There is a military port at
  Talcahuano, in Concepción Bay, strongly fortified, and provided with
  arsenal and repair shops, a large dry dock and a patent slip. The
  naval school, which occupies one of the noteworthy edifices of
  Valparaiso, is attended by 90 cadets and is noted for the thoroughness
  of its instruction.

