Throughout my remarks, the word isle is not mentioned. And why? Simply because it has no immediate
etymological connexion with the word island, being merely the French word naturalised. The
word isle is a simple, the word island a compound term. It is surely a fruitless task (as it
certainly is unnecessary for any one, with the latter word ready formed to his hand in the
Saxon branch of the Teutonic, and, from its very form, clearly of that family), to go out of
his way to torture the Latin into yielding something utterly foreign to it. My belief is, that
the resemblance between these two words is an accidental one; or, more properly, that it is
a question whether the introduction of an s into the word island did not originate in the desire
to assimilate the Saxon and French terms.

H. C. K.

A Cob-wall (Vol. viii., p. 151.).--A "cob" is not an unusual word in the midland counties,
meaning a lump or small hard mass of anything: it also means a blow; and a good "cobbing" is
no unfamiliar expression to the generality of schoolboys. A "cob-wall," I imagine, is so called
from its having been made of heavy lumps of clay, beaten one upon another into the form of
a wall. I would ask, if "gob," used also in Devonshire for the stone of any fruit which contains
a kernel, is not a cognate word?

W. FRASER.

Tor Mohun.

Oliver Cromwell's Portrait (Vol. vi. passim).--In reference to this Query, the best portrait
of Oliver Cromwell is in the Baptist College here, and 500 guineas have been refused for it.

I am not aware if it is the one alluded to by your correspondents. The picture is small, and
depicts the Protector without armour: it is by Cooper, and was left to its present possessors
by the Rev. Andrew Gifford, a Baptist minister, in 1784.

Two copies have been made of it, but the original has never been engraved; from one of the
copies, however, an engraving is in process of execution, after the picture by Mr. Newenham,
of "Cromwell dictating to Milton his letter to the Duke of Savoy." The likeness of Cromwell
in this picture is taken from one of the copies.

The original is not allowed to be taken from off the premises on any consideration, in consequence
of a dishonest attempt having been made, some time ago, to substitute a copy for it.

BRISTOLIENSIS.

Manners of the Irish (Vol. viii., pp. 5. 111.)--A slight knowledge of Gaelic enables me to
supply the meaning of some of the words that have puzzled your Irish correspondents. Molchan
(Gaelic, Mulachan) means "cheese."

 "Deo gracias, is smar in Doieagh."

I take to mean "Thanks to God, God is good." In Gaelic the spelling would be--"is math in Dia."
A Roman Catholic Celt would often hear his priest say "Deo Gratias."

The meaning of the passage seems to be pretty clear, and may be rendered thus:--The Irish farmer,
although in the abundant enjoyment of {280} bread, butter, cheese, flesh, and broth, is not
only not ashamed to complain of poverty as an excuse for non-payment of his rent, but has the
effrontery to thank God, as if he were enjoying only those blessings of Providence to which
he is justly entitled.

W. C.

Argyleshire.

Chronograms and Anagrams (Vol. viii., p. 42.).--Perhaps the most extraordinary instance to
be found in reference to chronograms is the following:

    "Chronographica Gratulatio in Felicissimum adventum Serenissimi
    Cardinalis Ferdinandi, Hispaniarum Infantis, a Collegio Soc. Jesu.
    Bruxellæ publico Belgarum Gaudio exhibita."

This title is followed by a dedication to S. Michael and an address to Ferdinand; after which
come one hundred hexameters, every one of which is a chronogram, and each chronogram gives
the same result, viz. 1634. The first three verses are,--

 "AngeLe CæLIVogI MIChaëL LUX UnICa CætUs.
  Pro nUtU sUCCInCta tUo CUI CUnCta MInIstrant.
  SIDera qUIqUe poLo gaUDentIa sIDera VoLVUnt."

The last two are,--

 "Vota Cano: hæC LeVIbus qUamVIs nUnC InCLyte prInCeps.
  VersICULIs InCLUsa, fLUent in sæCULa CentUm."

All the numeral letters are printed in capitals, and the whole is to be found in the Parnassus
Poeticus Societatis Jesu (Francofurti, 1654), at pp. 445-448. of part i. In the same volume
there is another example of the chronogram, at p. 261., in the "Septem Mariæ Mysteria" of Antonius
Chanut. It occurs at the close of an inscription:

 "StatUaM hanC--eX Voto ponIt
  FernanDUs TertIUs AUgUstUs."

The date is 1647.

    "Henriot, an ingenious anagrammatist, discovered the following anagram
    for the occasion of the 15th:

     'Napoleon Bonaparte sera-t-il consul à vie,
      La [le] peuple bon reconnoissant votera Oui.'

    There is only a trifling change of a to e."--Gent. Mag., Aug. 1802,
    p. 771.

The following is singular:

 "Quid est veritas? = Vir qui adest."

I add another chronogram "by Godard, upon the birth of Louis XIV. in 1638, on a day when the
eagle was in conjunction with the lion's heart:"

 "EXorIens DeLphIn AqUILa CorDIsqUe LeonIs
  CongressU GaLLos spe LætItIaqUe refeCIt."

B. H. C.

"Haul over the Coals" (Vol. viii., p. 125.).--This appears to mean just the same as "roasting"--to
inflict upon any one a castigation per verbum and in good humour.

To cover over the coals is the same as to cower over the coals, as a gipsy over a fire. Thus
Hodge says of Gammer Gurton and Tib, her maid:

                     "'Tis their daily looke,
  They cover so over the coles their eies be bleared with smooke."

To carry coals to Newcastle is well understood to be like giving alms to the wealthy; but viewed
in union with the others would show what a prominent place coals seem to have in the popular mind.

B. H. C.

Poplar.

Sheer Hulk (Vol. viii., p. 126.).--This phrase is certainly correct. Sheer = mere, a hulk,
and nothing else.

B. H. C.

Poplar.

The Magnet (Vol. vi. passim).--This was used by Claudian apparently as symbolical of Venus or love:

 "Mavors, sanguinea qui cuspide verberat urbes,
  Et Venus, humanas quæ laxat in otia curas,
  Aurati delubra tenent communia templi,
  Effigies non una Deis. Sed ferrea Martis
  Forma nitet, Venerem magnetica gemma figurat."--Claud. De Magnete.

B. H. C.

Poplar.

Fierce (Vol. viii., p. 125.).--OXONIENSIS mentions a peculiar use of the word "fierce." An
inhabitant of Staffordshire would have answered him: "I feel quite fierce this morning."

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

DUNCAN MACTAVISH.

Lochbrovin.

Acharis (Vol. viii., p. 198.).--A mistake, probably, for achatis, a Latinised form of achat,
a bargain, purchase, or act of purchasing. The passage in Dugdale seems to mean that "Ralph
Wickliff, Esq., holds two-thirds of the tithes of certain domains sometime purchased by him,
{281} formerly at a rental of 5s., now at nothing, because, as he says, they are included in
his park."

J. EASTWOOD.

Henry, Earl of Wotton (Vol. viii., p. 173.).--Philip, first Earl of Chesterfield, had a son
Henry, Lord Stanhope, K.B., who married Catherine, the eldest daughter and co-heir of Thomas,
Lord Wotton, and had issue one son Philip, and two daughters, Mary and Catherine. Lord Stanhope
died s. p. Nov. 29, 1634. His widow was governess to the Princess of Orange, daughter of Charles
I., and attending her into Holland, sent over money, arms, and ammunition to that king when
he was distressed by his rebellious subjects. For such services, and by reason of her long
attendance on the princess, she was, on the restoration of Charles II. (in regard that Lord
Stanhope, her husband, did not live to enjoy his father's honours), by letters patent bearing
date May 29, 12 Charles II., advanced to the dignity of Countess of Chesterfield for life,
as also that her daughters should enjoy precedency as earl's daughters.

