V. When we have at length reached the real sense of the text, the operation of positive analysis
is concluded. Its result is to make us acquainted with the author's conceptions, the images
he had in his mind, the general notions in terms of which he represented the world to himself.
This information belongs to a very important branch of knowledge, out of which is constituted
a whole group of historical sciences:[142] the history of the illustrative arts and of literature,
the history of science, the history of philosophical and moral doctrine, mythology and the
history of dogmas (wrongly called religious beliefs, because here we are studying official
doctrines without inquiring whether they are believed), the history of law, the history of
official institutions (so far as we do not inquire how they were applied in practice), the
assemblage of popular legends, traditions, opinions, conceptions (inexactly called beliefs)
which are comprised under the name of folk-lore.

All these studies need only the external criticism which investigates authorship and origin
and interpretative criticism; they require one degree less elaboration than the history of
objective facts, and accordingly they have been earlier established on a methodical basis.
They give no direct information about external facts. Even when the author was able to observe
them, his text only indicates how he wished to represent them, not how he really saw them,
still less how they really happened. What an author expresses is not always what he believed,
for he may have lied; what he believed is not necessarily what happened, for he may have been
mistaken. These propositions are obvious. And yet a first and natural impulse leads us to accept
as true every statement contained in a document, which is equivalent to assuming that no author
ever lied or was deceived; and this spontaneous credulity seems to possess a high degree of
vitality, for it persists in spite of the innumerable instances of error and mendacity which
daily experience brings before us.

Reflection has been forced on historians in the course of their work by the circumstance of
their finding documents which contradicted each other; in such cases they have been obliged
to doubt, and, after examination, to admit the existence of error or mendacity; thus negative
criticism has appeared as a practical necessity for the purpose of eliminating statements which
are obviously false or erroneous. But the instinct of confidence is so indestructible that
it has hitherto prevented even those professionally concerned from systematising the internal
criticism of statements in the same way as the external criticism which deals with the origin
of documents has been systematised. Historians, in their works, and even theoretical writers
on historical method,[143] have been satisfied with common notions and vague formulæ in striking
contrast with the precise terminology of the critical investigation of sources. They are content
to examine whether the author was roughly contemporary with the events, whether he was an ocular
witness, whether he was sincere and well-informed, whether he knew the truth and desired to
tell it, or even--summing up the whole question in a single formula--whether he was trustworthy.

This superficial criticism is certainly better than no criticism at all, and has sufficed to
give those who have applied it the consciousness of incontestable superiority. But it is only
a halfway-house between common credulity and scientific method. Here, as in every science,
the starting-point must be methodical doubt.[144] All that has not been proved must be temporarily
regarded as doubtful; no proposition is to be affirmed unless reasons can be adduced in favour
of its truth. Applied to the statements contained in documents, methodical doubt becomes methodical
distrust.

