"Here they have ceased to speak of the infant Augusta, or to say that she perished through
witchcraft. Poppæa mentions her at times yet; but Cæsar's mind is stuffed with something else.
Moreover, if it be true that the divine Augusta is in a changed state again, the memory of
that child will be blown away without trace. We have been in Naples for some days, or rather
in Baiæ. If thou art capable of any thought, echoes of our life must strike thy ear, for surely
Rome talks of naught else. We went directly to Baiæ, where at first memories of the mother
attacked us, and reproaches of conscience. But dost thou know to what Ahenobarbus has gone
already? To this, that for him even the murder of his mother is a mere theme for verses, and
a reason for buffoonish tragic scenes.

"Formerly he felt real reproaches only in so far as he was a coward; now, when he is convinced
that the earth is under his feet as before, and that no god is taking vengeance, he feigns
them only to move people by his fate. He springs up at night sometimes declaring that the Furies
are hunting him; he rouses us, looks around, assumes the posture of an actor playing the role
of Orestes, and the posture of a bad actor too; he declaims Greek verses, and looks to see
if we are admiring him. We admire him apparently; and instead of saying to him, Go to sleep,
thou buffoon! we bring ourselves also to the tone of tragedy, and protect the great artist
from the Furies. By Castor! this news at least must have reached thee, that he has appeared
in public at Naples. They drove in from the city and the surrounding towns all the Greek ruffians,
who filled the arena with such a vile odor of sweat and garlic that I thank the gods that,
instead of sitting in the first rows with the Augustians, I was behind the scenes with Ahenobarbus.
And wilt thou believe it, he was afraid really! He took my hand and put it to his heart, which
was beating with increased pulsation; his breath was short; and at the moment when he had to
appear he grew as pale as a parchment, and his forehead was covered with drops of sweat. Still
he saw that in every row of seats were pretorians, armed with clubs, to rouse enthusiasm if
the need came. But there was no need. No herd of monkeys from the environs of Carthage could
howl as did this rabble. I tell thee that the smell of garlic came to the stage; but Nero bowed,
pressed his hand to his heart, sent kisses from his lips, and shed tears. Then he rushed in
among us, who were waiting behind the scenes, like a drunken man, crying, 'What were the triumphs
of Julius compared with this triumph of mine?' But the rabble was howling yet and applauding,
knowing that it would applaud to itself favors, gifts, banquets, lottery tickets, and a fresh
exhibition by the Imperial buffoon. I do not wonder that they applauded, for such a sight had
not been seen till that evening. And every moment he repeated: 'See what the Greeks are! see
what the Greeks are!' From that evening it has seemed to me that his hatred for Rome is increasing.
Meanwhile special couriers were hurried to Rome announcing the triumph, and we expect thanks
from the Senate one of these days. Immediately after Nero's first exhibition, a strange event
happened here. The theatre fell in on a sudden, but just after the audience had gone. I was
there, and did not see even one corpse taken from the ruins. Many, even among the Greeks, see
in this event the anger of the gods, because the dignity of Cæsar was disgraced; he, on the
contrary, finds in it favor of the gods, who have his song, and those who listen to it, under
their evident protection. Hence there are offerings in all the temples, and great thanks. For
Nero it is a great encouragement to make the journey to Achæa. A few days since he told me,
however, that he had doubts as to what the Roman people might say; that they might revolt out
of love for him, and fear touching the distribution of grain and touching the games, which
might fail them in case of his prolonged absence.

"We are going, however, to Beneventum to look at the cobbler magnificence which Vatinius will
exhibit, and thence to Greece, under the protection of the divine brothers of Helen. As to
me, I have noted one thing, that when a man is among the mad he grows mad himself, and, what
is more, finds a certain charm in mad pranks. Greece and the journey in a thousand ships; a
kind of triumphal advance of Bacchus among nymphs and bacchantes crowned with myrtle, vine,
and honeysuckle; there will be women in tiger skins harnessed to chariots; flowers, thyrses,
garlands, shouts of 'Evoe!' music, poetry, and applauding Hellas. All this is well; but we
cherish besides more daring projects. We wish to create a species of Oriental Imperium,--an
empire of palm-trees, sunshine, poetry, and reality turned into a dream, reality turned into
the delight of life only. We want to forget Rome; to fix the balancing point of the world somewhere
between Greece, Asia, and Egypt; to live the life not of men but of gods; not to know what
commonness is; to wander in golden galleys under the shadow of purple sails along the Archipelago;
to be Apollo, Osiris, and Baal in one person; to be rosy with the dawn, golden with the sun,
silver with the moon; to command, to sing, to dream. And wilt thou believe that I, who have
still sound judgment to the value of a sestertium, and sense to the value of an as, let myself
be borne away by these fantasies, and I do this for the reason that, if they are not possible,
they are at least grandiose and uncommon? Such a fabulous empire would be a thing which, some
time or other, after long ages, would seem a dream to mankind. Except when Venus takes the
form of Lygia, or even of a slave Eunice, or when art beautifies it, life itself is empty,
and many a time it has the face of a monkey. But Bronzebeard will not realize his plans, even
for this cause, that in his fabulous kingdom of poetry and the Orient no place is given to
treason, meanness, and death; and that in him with the poses of a poet sits a wretched comedian,
a dull charioteer, and a frivolous tyrant. Meanwhile we are killing people whenever they displease
us in any way. Poor Torquatus Silanus is now a shade; he opened his veins a few days since.
Lecanius and Licinus will enter on the consulate with terror. Old Thrasea will not escape death,
for he dares to be honest. Tigellinus is not able yet to frame a command for me to open my
veins. I am still needed not only as elegantiæ arbiter, but as a man without whose counsel
and taste the expedition to Achæa might fail. More than once, however, I think that sooner
or later it must end in opening my veins; and knowest thou what the question will be then with
me?--that Bronzebeard should not get my goblet, which thou knowest and admirest. Shouldst thou
be near at the moment of my death, I will give it to thee; shouldst thou be at a distance,
I will break it. But meanwhile I have before me yet Beneventum of the cobblers and Olympian
Greece; I have Fate too, which, unknown and unforeseen, points out the road to every one.

"Be well, and engage Croton; otherwise they will snatch Lygia from thee a second time. When
Chilonides ceases to be needful, send him to me wherever I may be. Perhaps I shall make him
a second Vatinius, and consuls and senators may tremble before him yet, as they trembled before
that knight Dratevka. It would be worth while to live to see such a spectacle. When thou hast
found Lygia, let me know, so that I may offer for you both a pair of swans and a pair of doves
in the round temple of Venus here. Once I saw Lygia in a dream, sitting on thy knee, seeking
thy kisses. Try to make that dream prophetic. May there be no clouds on thy sky; or if there
be, let them have the color and the odor of roses! Be in good health; and farewell!"

Chapter XIX

BARELY had Vinicius finished reading when Chilo pushed quietly into his library, unannounced
by any one, for the servants had the order to admit him at every hour of the day or night.

"May the divine mother of thy magnanimous ancestor Æneas be full of favor to thee, as the son
of Maia was kind to me."

"What dost thou mean?" asked Vinicius, springing from the table at which he was sitting.

Chilo raised his head and said, "Eureka!"

The young patrician was so excited that for a long time he could not utter a word.

"Hast thou seen her?" asked he, at last.

"I have seen Ursus, lord, and have spoken with him."

"Dost thou know where they are secreted?"

"No, lord. Another, through boastfulness, would have let the Lygian know that he divined who
he was; another would have tried to extort from him the knowledge of where he lived, and would
have received either a stroke of the fist,--after which all earthly affairs would have become
indifferent to him,--or he would have roused the suspicion of the giant and caused this,--that
a new hiding-place would be found for the girl, this very night perhaps. I did not act thus.
It suffices me to know that Ursus works near the Emporium, for a miller named Demas, the same
name as that borne by thy freedman; now any trusted slave of thine may go in the morning on
his track, and discover their hiding place. I bring thee merely the assurance that, since Ursus
is here, the divine Lygia also is in Rome, and a second news that she will be in Ostrianum
to-night, almost certainly--"

"In Ostrianum? Where is that?" interrupted Vinicius, wishing evidently to run to the place
indicated.

"An old hypogeum between the Viæ Salaria and Nomentana. That pontifex maximus of the Christians,
of whom I spoke to thee, and whom they expected somewhat later, has come, and to-night he will
teach and baptize in that cemetery. They hide their religion, for, though there are no edicts
to prohibit it as yet, the people hate them, so they must be careful. Ursus himself told me
that all, to the last soul, would be in Ostrianum to-night, for every one wishes to see and
hear him who was the foremost disciple of Christ, and whom they call Apostle. Since among them
women hear instruction as well as men, Pomponia alone perhaps of women will not be there; she
could not explain to Aulus, a worshipper of the ancient gods, her absence from home at night.
But Lygia, lord, who is under the care of Ursus and the Christian elders, will go undoubtedly
with other women."

Vinicius, who had lived hitherto in a fever, and upheld as it were, by hope alone, now that
his hope seemed fulfilled felt all at once the weakness that a man feels after a journey which
has proved beyond his strength. Chilo noticed this, and resolved to make use of it.

"The gates are watched, it is true, by thy people, and the Christians must know that. But they
do not need gates. The Tiber, too, does not need them; and though it is far from the river
to those roads, it is worth while to walk one road more to see the 'Great Apostle.' Moreover
they may have a thousand ways of going beyond the walls, and I know that they have. In Ostrianum
thou wilt find Lygia; and even should she not be there, which I will not admit, Ursus will
be there, for he has promised to kill Glaucus. He told me himself that he would be there, and
that he would kill him. Dost hear, noble tribune? Either thou wilt follow Ursus and learn where
Lygia dwells, or thou wilt command thy people to seize him as a murderer, and, having him in
thy hand, thou wilt make him confess where he has hidden Lygia. I have done my best! Another
would have told thee that he had drunk ten cantars of the best wine with Ursus before he wormed
the secret out of him; another would have told thee that he had lost a thousand sestertia to
him in scriptoe duodecim, or that he had bought the intelligence for two thousand; I know that
thou wouldst repay me doubly, but in spite of that, once in my life--I mean, as always in my
life--I shall be honest, for I think, as the magnanimous Petronius says, that thy bounty exceeds
all my hopes and expectations."

Vinicius, who was a soldier and accustomed not only to take counsel of himself in all cases,
but to act, was overcome by a momentary weakness and said,--"Thou wilt not deceive thyself
as to my liberality, but first thou wilt go with me to Ostrianum."

"I, to Ostrianum?" inquired Chilo, who had not the least wish to go there. "I, noble tribune,
promised thee to point out Lygia, but I did not promise to take her away for thee. Think, lord,
what would happen to me if that Lygian bear, when he had torn Glaucus to pieces, should convince
himself straightway that he had torn him not altogether justly? Would he not look on me (of
course without reason) as the cause of the accomplished murder? Remember, lord, that the greater
philosopher a man is, the more difficult it is for him to answer the foolish questions of common
people; what should I answer him were he to ask me why I calumniated Glaucus? But if thou suspect
that I deceive thee, I say, pay me only when I point out the house in which Lygia lives; show
me to-day only a part of thy liberality, so that if thou, lord (which may all the gods ward
from thee), succumb to some accident, I shall not be entirely without recompense. Thy heart
could not endure that."

Vinicius went to a casket called "area," standing on a marble pedestal, and, taking out a purse,
threw it to Chilo.

"There are scrupula," said he; "when Lygia shall be in my house, thou wilt get the same full
of aurei."

"Thou art Jove!" exclaimed Chilo.

But Vinicius frowned.

"Thou wilt receive food here," said he; "then thou mayest rest. Thou wilt not leave this house
till evening, and when night falls thou wilt go with me to Ostrianum."

Fear and hesitation were reflected on the Greek's face for a time; but afterward he grew calm,
and said,--"Who can oppose thee, lord! Receive these my words as of good omen, just as our
great hero received words like them in the temple of Ammon. As to me, these 'scruples'" (here
he shook the purse) "have outweighed mine, not to mention thy society, which for me is delight
and happiness."

Vinicius interrupted him impatiently, and asked for details of his conversation with Ursus.
From them it seemed clear that either Lygia's hiding-place would be discovered that night,
or he would be able to seize her on the road back from Ostrianum. At thought of this, Vinicius
was borne away by wild delight. Now, when he felt clearly sure of finding Lygia, his anger
against her, and his feeling of offence almost vanished. In return for that delight he forgave
her every fault. He thought of her only as dear and desired, and he had the same impression
as if she were returning after a long journey. He wished to summon his slaves and command them
to deck the house with garlands. In that hour he had not a complaint against Ursus, even. He
was ready to forgive all people everything. Chilo, for whom, in spite of his services, he had
felt hitherto a certain repulsion, seemed to him for the first time an amusing and also an
uncommon person. His house grew radiant; his eyes and his face became bright. He began again
to feel youth and the pleasure of life. His former gloomy suffering had not given him yet a
sufficient measure of how he loved Lygia. He understood this now for the first time, when he
hoped to possess her. His desires woke in him, as the earth, warmed by the sun, wakes in spring;
but his desires this time were less blind and wild, as it were, and more joyous and tender.
He felt also within himself energy without bounds, and was convinced that should he but see
Lygia with his own eyes, all the Christians on earth could not take her from him, nor could
Cæsar himself.

Chilo, emboldened by the young tribune's delight, regained power of speech and began to give
advice. According to him, it behooved Vinicius not to look on the affair as won, and to observe
the greatest caution, without which all their work might end in nothing. He implored Vinicius
not to carry off Lygia from Ostrianum. They ought to go there with hoods on their heads, with
their faces hidden, and restrict themselves to looking at all who were present from some dark
corner. When they saw Lygia, it would be safest to follow her at a distance, see what house
she entered, surround it next morning at daybreak, and take her away in open daylight. Since
she was a hostage and belonged specially to Cæsar, they might do that without fear of law.
In the event of not finding her in Ostrianum they could follow Ursus, and the result would
be the same. To go to the cemetery with a crowd of attendants was impracticable,--that might
draw attention to them easily; then the Christians need only put out the lights, as they did
when she was intercepted, and scatter in the darkness, or betake themselves to places known
to them only. But Vinicius and he should arm, and, still better, take a couple of strong, trusty
men to defend them in case of need.

Vinicius saw the perfect truth of what he said, and, recalling Petronius's counsel, commanded
his slaves to bring Croton. Chilo, who knew every one in Rome, was set at rest notably when
he heard the name of the famous athlete, whose superhuman strength in the arena he had wondered
at more than once, and he declared that he would go to Ostrianum. The purse filled with great
aurei seemed to him much easier of acquisition through the aid of Croton.

Hence he sat down in good spirits at the table to which, after a time, he was called by the
chief of the atrium.

While eating, he told the slaves that he had obtained for their master a miraculous ointment.
The worst horse, if rubbed on the hoofs with it, would leave every other far behind. A certain
Christian had taught him how to prepare that ointment, for the Christian elders were far more
skilled in enchantment and miracles than even the Thessalians, though Thessaly was renowned
for its witches. The Christians had immense confidence in him--why, any one easily understands
who knows what a fish means. While speaking he looked sharply at the eyes of the slaves, in
the hope of discovering a Christian among them and informing Vinicius. But when the hope failed
him, he fell to eating and drinking uncommon quantities, not sparing praises on the cook, and
declaring that he would endeavor to buy him of Vinicius. His joyfulness was dimmed only by
the thought that at night he must go to Ostrianum. He comforted himself, however, as he would
go in disguise, in darkness, and in the company of two men, one of whom was so strong that
he was the idol of Rome; the other a patrician, a man of high dignity in the army. "Even should
they discover Vinicius," said he to himself, "they will not dare to raise a hand on him; as
to me, they will be wise if they see the tip of my nose even."

He fell then to recalling his conversation with the laborer; and the recollection of that filled
him again with delight. He had not the least doubt that that laborer was Ursus. He knew of
the uncommon strength of the man, from the narratives of Vinicius, and those who had brought
Lygia from Cæsar's palace. When he inquired of Euricius touching men of exceptional strength,
there was nothing remarkable in this, that they pointed out Ursus. Then the confusion and rage
of the laborer at mention of Vinicius and Lygia left him no doubt that those persons concerned
him particularly; the laborer had mentioned also his penance for killing a man,--Ursus had
killed Atacinus; finally, the appearance of the laborer answered perfectly to the account which
Vinicius had given of the Lygian. The change of name was all that could provoke doubt, but
Chilo knew that frequently Christians took new names at baptism.

"Should Ursus kill Glaucus," said Chilo to himself, "that will be better still; but should
he not kill him, that will be a good sign, for it will show how difficult it is for Christians
to murder. I described Glaucus as a real son of Judas, and a traitor to all Christians; I was
so eloquent that a stone would have been moved, and would have promised to fall on the head
of Glaucus. Still I hardly moved that Lygian bear to put his paw on him. He hesitated, was
unwilling, spoke of his penance and compunction. Evidently murder is not common among them.
Offences against one's self must be forgiven, and there is not much freedom in taking revenge
for others. Ergo, stop! think, Chilo, what can threaten thee? Glaucus is not free to avenge
himself on thee. If Ursus will not kill Glaucus for such a great crime as the betrayal of all
Christians, so much the more will he not kill thee for the small offence of betraying one Christian.
Moreover, when I have once pointed out to this ardent wood-pigeon the nest of that turtle-dove,
I will wash my hands of everything, and transfer myself to Naples. The Christians talk, also,
of a kind of washing of the hands; that is evidently a method by which, if a man has an affair
with them, he may finish it decisively. What good people these Christians are, and how ill
men speak of them! O God! such is the justice of this world. But I love that religion, since
it does not permit killing; but if it does not permit killing, it certainly does not permit
stealing, deceit, or false testimony; hence I will not say that it is easy. It teaches, evidently,
not only to die honestly, as the Stoics teach, but to live honestly also. If ever I have property
and a house, like this, and slaves in such numbers as Vinicius, perhaps I shall be a Christian
as long as may be convenient. For a rich man can permit himself everything, even virtue. This
is a religion for the rich; hence I do not understand how there are so many poor among its
adherents. What good is it for them, and why do they let virtue tie their hands? I must think
over this sometime. Meanwhile praise to thee, Hermes! for helping me discover this badger.
But if thou hast done so for the two white yearling heifers with gilded horns, I know thee
not. Be ashamed, O slayer of Argos! such a wise god as thou, and not foresee that thou wilt
get nothing! I will offer thee my gratitude; and if thou prefer two beasts to it, thou art
the third beast thyself, and in the best event thou shouldst be a shepherd, not a god. Have
a care, too, lest I, as a philosopher, prove to men that thou art non-existent, and then all
will cease to bring thee offerings. It is safer to be on good terms with philosophers."

Speaking thus to himself and to Hermes, he stretched on the sofa, put his mantle under his
head, and was sleeping when the slave removed the dishes. He woke,--or rather they roused him,--only
at the coming of Croton. He went to the atrium, then, and began to examine with pleasure the
form of the trainer, an ex-gladiator, who seemed to fill the whole place with his immensity.
Croton had stipulated as to the price of the trip, and was just speaking to Vinicius.

"By Hercules! it is well, lord," said he, "that thou hast sent to-day for me, since I shall
start to-morrow for Beneventum, whither the noble Vatinius has summoned me to make a trial,
in presence of Cæsar, of a certain Syphax, the most powerful negro that Africa has ever produced.
Dost thou imagine, lord, how his spinal column will crack in my arms, or how besides I shall
break his black jaw with my fist?"

