As early as the year 1848, a man by the name of Holden, who was given to field searching and
prospecting, frequently brought specimens to the late Benjamin F. Newhall and solemnly affirmed
that he obtained them from the earth and soil within the limits of Saugus. Every means was
used to induce him to divulge the secret of its locality. But Holden was wary and stolidly
refused to disclose or share the knowledge of the place of the lode with anyone. He averred
that he was going to make his fortune by it. Detectives were put upon his trail in his roaming
about the fields, but he managed to elude all efforts at discovery. Being an intemperate man,
one cold night after indulging in his cups, he was found by the roadside stark and stiff. Many
rude attempts and imperfect searches have been made upon the assurances of Holden to discover
the existence of antimony, but thus far in vain, and the supposed suppressed secret of the
existence of it in Saugus died with him.

"Pirate's Glen" is also within the territory of Saugus, while "Dungeon Rock," another romantic
locality, described by Alonzo Lewis in his history of Lynn, is just over the line in that city.
There is a popular tradition that the pirates buried their treasure at the foot of a certain
hemlock tree in the glen, also the body of a beautiful female. The rotten stump of a tree may
still be seen, and a hollow beside it, where people have dug in searching for human bones and
treasure. This glen is highly romantic and is one of the places of interest to which all strangers
visiting Saugus are conducted, and is invested with somewhat of the supernatural tales of Captain
Kid and treasure trove.

There is a fine quarry or ledge of jasper located in the easterly part of the town, near Saugus
River, just at the foot of the conical-shaped elevation known as "Round Hill." which Professor
Hitchcock, in his last geological survey, pronounced to be the best specimen in the state.
Mrs. Hitchcock, an artist, who accompanied her husband in his surveying tour, delineated from
this eminence, looking toward Nahant and Egg Rock, which is full in view, and from which steamers
may be seen with a glass plainly passing in and out of Boston harbor. The scenery and drives
about Saugus are delightful, especially beautiful is the view and landscape looking from the
"Cinder Banks," so-called, down Saugus river toward Lynn.

REPRESENTATIVES FROM SAUGUS SINCE THE TOWN WAS INCORPORATED.

Saugus, (formerly the West Parish of Lynn), was formed in the year 1815, and the town was first
represented by Mr. Robert Emes in 1816. Mr. Emes carried on morocco dressing, his business
being located on Saugus river, on the spot now occupied by Scott's Flannel Mills.

In 1817-18 Mr. Joseph Cheever represented the town, and again in 1820-21; also, in 1831-32,
and again, for the last time, in 1835. After having served the town seven times in the legislature,
he seems to have quietly retired from political affairs.

In 1822 Dr. Abijah Cheever was the Representative, and again in 1829-30. The doctor held a
commission as surgeon in the army at the time of our last war with Great Britain. He was a
man very decided in his manners, had a will of his own, and liked to have people respect it.

In 1823 Mr. Jonathan Makepeace was elected. His business was the manufacture of snuff, at the
old mills in the eastern part of the town, now owned by Sweetser Brothers, and known as the
Sweetser Mills.

In 1826-28 Mr. John Shaw was the Representative.

In 1827 Mr. William Jackson was elected.

In 1833-34 Mr. Zaccheus N. Stocker represented the town. Mr. Stocker held various offices,
and looked very closely after the interests of the town.

In 1837-38 Mr. William W. Boardman was the Representative. He has filled a great many offices
in the town.

In 1839 Mr. Charles Sweetser was elected, and again in 1851. Mr. Sweetser was largely engaged
in the manufacture of snuff and cigars. He was a gentleman very decided in his opinions, and
enjoyed the confidence of the people to a large degree.

In 1840, the year of the great log cabin campaign, Mr. Francis Dizer was elected.

In 1841 Mr. Benjamin Hitchings, Jr., was elected, and in 1842 the town was represented by Mr.
Stephen E. Hawkes.

In 1843-44 Benjamin F. Newhall, Esq., was the Representative, Mr. Newhall was a man of large
and varied experience, and held various offices, always looking sharply after the real interests
of the town. He also held the office of County Commissioner.

In 1845 Mr. Pickmore Jackson was the Representative. He has also held various offices in the
town, and has since served on the school committee with good acceptance.

In 1846-47 Mr. Sewall Boardman represented the town.

In 1852 Mr. George H. Sweetser was the Representative. Mr. Sweetser has also held a seat in
our State Senate two years, and filled various town offices. He was a prompt and energetic
business man, engaged in connection with his brother, Mr. Charles A. Sweetser, in the manufacture
of snuff and cigars.

In 1853 Mr. John B. Hitching was elected. He has held various offices in the town.

In 1854 the town was represented by Mr. Samuel Hawkes, who has also served in several other
positions, proving himself a very straightforward and reliable man.

In 1855 Mr. Richard Mansfield was elected. He was for many years Tax Collector and Constable,
and when he laid his hand on a man's shoulder, in the name of the law, the duty was performed
in such a good-natured manner that it really did not seem so very bad, after all.

In 1856 Mr. William H. Newhall represented the town. He has held the offices of Town Clerk
and Selectman longer than any other person in town, and is still in office.

In 1857 Mr. Jacob B. Calley was elected.

In 1858 the district system was adopted, and Mr. Jonathan Newhall was elected to represent
the twenty-fourth Essex District, comprising the towns of Saugus, Lynnfield and Middleton.

In 1861 Mr. Harmon Hall represented the District. Mr. Hall is a very energetic business man,
and has accumulated a very handsome property by the manufacture of boots and shoes. He has
held various other important positions, and has been standing Moderator in all town meetings,
always putting business through by daylight.

In 1863 Mr. John Hewlett was elected. He resides in that part of the town called North Saugus,
and was for a long series of years a manufacturer of snuff and cigars.

In 1864 Mr. Charles W. Newhall was the Representative.

In 1867 Mr. Sebastian S. Dunn represented the District. Mr. Dunn was a dealer in snuff, cigars
and spices, and is now engaged in farming in Dakota.

In 1870 Mr. John Armitage represented the District--the twentieth Essex--comprising the towns
of Saugus, Lynnfield, Middleton and Topsfield. He has been engaged in the woollen business
most of his life; formerly a partner with Pranker & Co. He has also held other town offices
with great acceptance.

J.B. Calley succeeded Mr. Armitage, it being the second time he had been elected. Otis M. Hitchings
was the next Representative, a shoe manufacturer, being elected over A.A. Scott, Esq., the
republican candidate.

Joseph Whitehead was the next Representative from Saugus, a grocer in business. He was then
and still is Town Treasurer, repeatedly having received every vote cast. J. Allston Newhall
was elected in 1878 and for several years was selectman.

Albert H. Sweetser was our last Representative, elected in 1882-3, by one of the largest majorities
ever given in the District. He is a snuff manufacturer, doing business at Cliftondale, under
the firm of Sweetser Bros., whom he succeeds in business. Saugus is entitled to the next Representative
in 1885-6. The womb of the future will alone reveal his name.

The future of Saugus would seem to be well assured, having frequent trains to and from Boston
and Lynn, with enlarged facilities for building purposes, especially at Cliftondale, where
a syndicate has recently been formed, composed of Charles H. Bond, Edward S. Kent, and Henry
Waite, who have purchased thirty-four acres of land, formerly belonging to the Anthony Hatch
estate, which, with other adjoining lands are to be laid out into streets and lots presenting
such opportunities and facilities for building as cannot fail to attract all who are desirious
of obtaining suburban residences, and thus largely add to the taxable property of Saugus and
to the prosperity of this interesting locality.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BARTHOLDI COLOSSUS.

By WILLIAM HOWE DOWNES.

The project of erecting a colossal statue of Liberty, which shall at once serve as a lighthouse
and as a symbolic work of art, may be discussed from several different points of view. The
abstract idea, as it occurred to the sculptor, Mr. Bartholdi, was noble. The colossus was to
symbolize the historic friendship of the two great republics, the United States and France;
it was to further symbolize the idea of freedom and fraternity which underlies the republican
form of government. Lafayette and Jefferson would have been touched by the project. If we are
not touched by it, it proves that we have forgotten much which it would become us to recall.
Before our nation was, the democratic idea had been for many years existing and expanding among
the French people; crushed again and again by tyrants, it ever rose, renewed and fresh for
the irrepressible conflict. Through all their vicissitudes the people of France have upheld,
unfaltering, their ideal--liberty, equality and fraternity. Our own republic exists to-day
because France helped us when England sought to crush us. It is never amiss to freshen our
memories as to these historic facts. The symbolism of the colossus would therefore be very
fine; it would have a meaning which every one could understand.

Now, there can be no two ways of thinking among patriotic Americans as to this aspect of the
Bartholdi colossus question. It must be agreed that the motive of the work is extremely grand,
and that its significance would be glorious. The sculptor's project was a generous inspiration,
for which he must be cordially remembered. To be sure, it may be said he is getting well advertised;
that is very true, but it would be mean in us to begrudge him what personal fame he may derive
from the work. To assume that the whole affair is a "job," or that it is entirely the outcome
of one man's scheming egotism and desire for notoriety, is to take a deplorably low view of
it; to draw unwarranted conclusions and to wrong ourselves. The money to pay for the statue--about
$250,000--was raised by popular subscription in France, under the auspices of the Franco-American
Union, an association of gentlemen whose membership includes such names as Laboulaye, de Lafayette,
de Rochambeau, de Noailles, de Toqueville, de Witt, Martin, de Remusat. The identification
of these excellent men with the project should be a sufficient guarantee of its disinterested
character. The efforts made in this country to raise the money--$250,000--required to build
a suitable pedestal for the statue, are a subject of every day comment, and the failure to
obtain the whole amount is a matter for no small degree of chagrin.

Who and what is Mr. Bartholdi? He is a native of Colmar, in Alsace, and comes of a good stock;
a pupil of the Lycee Louis-le-Grand, and of Ary Scheffer, he studied first painting then sculpture,
and after a journey in the East with Gerome, established his atelier in Paris. He served in
the irregular corps of Garibaldi during the war of 1870, and the following year visited the
United States. It is admitted that he is a man of talent, but that he is not considered a great
sculptor in his own country is equally beyond doubt. He would not be compared, for instance,
with such men as Chapu, Dubois, Falguiere, Clesinger, Mercie, Fremiet, men who stand in the
front rank of their profession. The list of his works is not long. It includes statues of General
Rapp, Vercingetorix, Vauban, Champollion, Lafayette and Rouget de l'Isle; ideal groups entitled
"Genius in the Grasp of Misery," and "the Malediction of Alsace;" busts of Messrs. Erckmann
and Chatrain; single figures called "Le Vigneron," "Genie Funebre" and "Peace;" and a monument
to Martin Schoengauer in the form of a fountain for the courtyard of the Colmar Museum. There
may be a few others. Last, but by no means least, there is the great Lion of Belfort, his best
work. This is about 91 by 52 feet in dimensions, and is carved from a block of reddish Vosges
stone. It is intended to commemorate the defence of Belfort against the German army in 1870,
an episode of heroic interest. The immense animal is represented as wounded but still capable
of fighting, half lying, half standing, with an expression of rage and mighty defiance. It
is not too much to say that Mr. Bartholdi in this case has shown a fine appreciation of the
requirements of colossal sculpture. He has sacrificed all unnecessary details, and, taking
a lesson from the old Egyptian stone-cutters, has presented an impressive arrangement of simple
masses and unvexed surfaces which give to the composition a marvellous breadth of effect. The
lion is placed in a sort of rude niche on the side of a rocky hill, which is the foundation
of the fortress of Belfort. It is visible at a great distance, and is said to be strikingly
noble from every point of view. The idea is not original, however well it may have been carried
out, for the Lion of Lucerne by Thorwaldsen is its prototype on a smaller scale and commemorates
an event of somewhat similar character. The bronze equestrian statue of Vercingetorix, the
fiery Gallic chieftain, in the Clermont museum, is full of violent action. The horse is flying
along with his legs in positions which set all the science of Mr. Muybridge at defiance; the
man is brandishing his sword and half-turning in his saddle to shout encouragement to his followers.
The whole is supported by a bit of artificial rock-work under the horse, and the body of a
dead Gaul lies close beside it. In the statue of Rouget de l'Isle we see a young man striking
an orator's attitude, with his right arm raised in a gesture which seems to say:

"Aux armes, citoyens / Formes vos bataillons!"

The Lafayette, in New York, is perhaps a mediocre statue, but even so, it is better than most
of our statues. A Frenchman has said of it that the figure "resembles rather a young tenor
hurling out his C sharp, than a hero offering his heart and sword to liberty." It represents
our ancient ally extending his left hand in a gesture of greeting, while his right hand, which
holds his sword, is pressed against his breast in a somewhat theatrical movement. It will be
inferred that the general criticism to be made upon Mr. Bartholdi's statues is that they are
violent and want repose. The Vercingetorix, the Rouget de l'Isle, the Lafayette, all have this
exaggerated stress of action. They have counterbalancing features of merit, no doubt, but none
of so transcendent weight that we can afford to overlook this grave defect.

Coming now to the main question, which it is the design of this paper to discuss, the inquiry
arises: What of the colossal statue of Liberty as a work of art? For, no matter how noble the
motive may be, or how generous the givers, it must after all be subjected to this test. If
it is not a work of art, the larger it is, the more offensive it must be. There are not wanting
critics who maintain that colossal figures cannot be works of art; they claim that such representations
of the human form are unnatural and monstrous, and it is true that they are able to point out
some "terrible examples" of modern failures, such, for instance, as the "Bavaria" statue at
Munich. But these writers appear to forget that the "Minerva" of the Parthenon and the Olympian
Jupiter were the works of the greatest sculptor of ancient times, and that no less a man than
Michael Angelo was the author of the "David" and "Moses." It is therefore apparent that those
who deny the legitimacy of colossal sculptures in toto go too far; but it is quite true that
colossal works have their own laws and are subject to peculiar conditions. Mr. Lesbazeilles[A]
says that "colossal statuary is in its proper place when it expresses power, majesty, the qualities
that inspire respect and fear; but it would be out of place if it sought to please us by the
expression of grace.... Its function is to set forth the sublime and the grandiose." The colossi
found among the ruins of Egyptian Temples and Palaces cannot be seen without emotion, for if
many of them are admirable only because of their great size, still no observer can avoid a
feeling of astonishment on account of the vast energy, courage and industry of the men of old
who could vanquish such gigantic difficulties. At the same time it will not do to assume that
the Egyptian stone cutters were not artists. The great Sphinx of Giseh, huge as it is, is far
from being a primitive and vulgar creation. "The portions of the head which have been preserved,"
says Mr. Charles Blanc, "the brow, the eyebrows, the corners of the eyes, the passage from
the temples to the cheek-bones, and from the cheek-bones to the cheek, the remains of the mouth
and chin,--all this testifies to an extraordinary fineness of chiselling. The entire face has
a solemn serenity and a sovereign goodness." Leaving aside all consideration of the artistic
merits of other Egyptian colossi,--those at Memphis, Thebes, Karnac and Luxor, with the twin
marvels of Amenophis-Memnon--we turn to the most famous colossus of antiquity, that at Rhodes,
only to find that we have even less evidence on which to base an opinion as to its quality
than is available in the case of the numerous primitive works of Egypt and of India. We know
its approximate dimensions, the material of which it was made, and that it was overthrown by
an earthquake, but there seems to be reason to doubt its traditional attitude, and nothing
is known as to what it amounted to as a work of art, though it may be presumed that, being
the creation of a Greek, it had the merits of its classic age and school. Of the masterpieces
of Phidias it may be said that they were designed for the interiors of Temples and were adopted
with consummate art to the places they occupied; they have been reconstructed for us from authentic
descriptions, and we are enabled to judge concerning that majestic and ponderous beauty which
made them the fit presentments of the greatest pagan deities. I need say nothing of the immortal
statues by Michael Angelo, and will therefore hasten to consider the modern outdoor colossi
which now exist in Europe--the St. Charles Borromeo at Arona, Italy, the Bavaria at Munich,
the Arminius in Westphalia, Our Lady of Puy in France. The St. Charles Borromeo, near the shore
of Lake Maggiore, dates from 1697, and is the work of a sculptor known as Il Cerano. Its height
is 76 feet, or with its pedestal, 114 feet. The arm is over 29 feet long, the nose 33 inches,
and the forefinger 6 feet 4 inches. The statue is entirely of hammered copper plates riveted
together, supported by means of clamps and bands of iron on an interior mass of masonry. The
effect of the work is far from being artistic. It is in a retired spot on a hill, a mile or
two from the little village of Arona. The Bavaria, near Munich, erected in 1850, is 51 feet
high, on a pedestal about 26 feet high, and is the work of Schwanthaler. It is of bronze and
weighs about 78 tons. The location of this monstrous lump of metal directly in front of a building
emphasizes its total want of sculptural merit, and makes it a doubly lamentable example of
bad taste and bombast. The Arminius colossal, on a height near Detmold in Westphalia, was erected
in 1875, is 65 feet high, and weighs 18 tons. The name of the sculptor is not given by any
of the authorities consulted, which is perhaps just as well. This statue rests on "a dome-like
summit of a monumental structure," and brandishes a sword 24 feet long in one hand. The Virgin
of Puy is by Bonassieux, was set up in 1860, is 52 feet high, weighs 110 tons, and stands on
a cliff some 400 feet above the town. It is, like the Bavaria, of bronze, cast in sections,
and made from cannons taken in warfare. The Virgin's head is surmounted by a crown of stars,
and she carries the infant Christ on her left arm. The location of this statue is felicitous,
but it has no intrinsic value as an art work. It will be seen, then, that these outdoor colossi
of to-day do not afford us much encouragement to believe that Mr. Bartholdi will be able to
surmount the difficulties which have vanquished one sculptor after another in their endeavors
to perform similar prodigies. Sculpture is perhaps the most difficult of the arts of design.
There is an antique statue in the Louvre which displays such wonderful anatomical knowledge,
that Reynolds is said to have remarked, "to learn that alone might consume the labor of a whole
life." And it is an undeniable fact that enlarging the scale of a statue adds in more than
a corresponding degree to the difficulties of the undertaking. The colossi of the ancients
were to a great extent designed for either the interiors or the exteriors of religious temples,
where they were artfully adapted to be seen in connection with architectural effects. Concerning
the sole prominent exception to this rule, the statue of Apollo at Rhodes, we have such scant
information that even its position is a subject of dispute. It has been pointed out how the
four modern outdoor colossi of Europe each and all fail to attain the requirements of a work
of art. All our inquiries, it appears then, lead to the conclusion that Mr. Bartholdi has many
chances against him, so far as we are able to learn from an examination of the precedents,
and in view of these facts it would be a matter for surprise if the "Liberty" statue should
prove to possess any title to the name of a work of art. We reserve a final decision, however,
as to this most important phase of the affair, until the statue is in place.

[Footnote A: "Les Colosses anciens et moderns," par E. Lesbazeilles; Paris: 1881.]

