"What would she counsel," said the stranger, "except to accept this offer? Remember, if you
refuse it you remain here for days, if not weeks. You cannot hope to obtain the preference
unless you are enabled to inform any one of the secret of setting the works in motion, and
then it would require a hand as steady and experienced as my own to carry out your directions;
and I should not undertake to do it except on the conditions which I have named."

"Show me the conditions drawn out," said Dumiger.

The man rolled out slowly one of the long strips of parchment which he held in his hand; he
gave it to Dumiger, who drew the lamp near him, and for a few minutes reveled in the ideas
of freedom and wealth. He had but to say the word, and he enjoyed all that he had been laboring
for through life; but then, at what price? at that which it pained him to contemplate--the
citizenship of his native town, where his family had dwelt respected for centuries. No doubt
he was selling his birthright; he was parting with all that a man should cling to in adversity
as in prosperity--that which is not to be purchased with gold--all his old ties, his affections,
his faith. Once signed, the deed was irrevocable; and yet if he did not sign, what had he to
hope for?

He leaned his head on his hands, in one of those stern struggles which age a man in a few minutes,
as breaths of frost wither the freshest leaves. He invoked the Spirit of Love--he called forth
Marguerite, and she stood beside him. He saw her with her cheek paler than when he had parted
from her; he saw her bosom heaving with sighs instead of love; he heard her soft whisper in
his ear, and he thought that whisper expressed assent--that for him, she too was willing to
relinquish the home and the friends of her childhood. Ay, is it not ever so? Invoke whom we
may in hours of trial, does not the oracle take its tone from our own wishes? Fond and futile
pretense to invoke the Spirit of Love to decide where love is interested! As Marguerite seemed
to stand beside Dumiger he lost sight of ambition, and all its pomp and circumstance; all he
asked was to be free.

"Give me the paper," he said in a firm voice: "the clock is yours, and the principle of the
movement is to be found engraved on a small plate under the mainspring."

If he had seen the smile of triumph which passed over that man's countenance, he would have
hesitated.

The deed was done: the man put his materials and his paper into his pocket again.

"Now," he said, rising to go, "the third day's post will find you free; and take my advice,
leave Dantzic soon. The people will be irritated at being deprived of their master-piece. I
would not have you trust to their render mercies; for that matter, it is well for you that
you are safe in prison. Remember this advice, for I know the Dantzickers as well as you do."

"Stay, stay one moment," cried Dumiger, as the stranger was about to leave the cell, "who told
you so much about me? How did you obtain this list of debts? How came you to hear of Marguerite,
and Carl, and Krantz? Surely," and he passed his hand across his brow like a man who is pained
by the intensity of a ray of light after having been long in darkness--"tell me before you
go, what does this mean?" And he caught a firm hold of the man's cloak.

"There is no reason why I should not tell you the truth now," said he, buttoning his coat tightly
over the papers. "I was sent for by the Grand Master, who engaged me to obtain the sale of
your clock at any price. And he gave me good inducements to undertake the job."

The whole scheme broke on Dumiger's mind.

"And with what object?" he gasped forth; "tell me that."

"To get rid of your competition," said the man quietly. "After yours there is no doubt that
his son's is the best; and, therefore, when yours is sold to Hambro', his will be prized in
Dantzic. As for me, I shall get rewarded for my exertions, both by the Grand Master your noble
count, and my own city. Here is the truth of the matter," said he; "now let me go."

"Let you go, miscreant!" exclaimed Dumiger, "never, until you return me that paper. Let you
go! I will follow you to death rather. You betrayed me into this act; it was not my own free
will. I am the victim of the basest conspiracy. I have been induced to sell my birthright--I
prefer to remain in prison--I love my townspeople--I will not be free on these conditions!
Give me back my bond!"

"Never!" said the man, putting himself into an attitude of defense.

And he did wisely, for there was desperation in Dumiger's eye. He waited a moment, and then
with a maniac's strength he flew at the man, but he found a powerful and vigorous antagonist.
The stranger, who had appeared half decrepit and aged, rose up in all the strength of youth.
In a moment he had grasped Dumiger's arms, very coolly taken out a handkerchief, and in spite
of all Dumiger's efforts bound his hands together. After he had performed this operation he
drew the document again from his pocket, so as to be well assured that it was correctly signed,
and smiled as he said to Dumiger--

"You know that signature?"

"Scoundrel! miscreant!" were the only words to which Dumiger could give utterance.

"And now, fellow-citizen," said the man, "I bid you farewell. Keep your temper; these sober
arts should have taught you this kind of self-command. You will soon be free. As for your arms,
I dare not untie them now, but I will send the guard to you. Now, holloa, guard without there!"
and he left the cell.

What did all this mean? A mystery seemed to be encircling Dumiger which he could not penetrate.
He knew there was danger near him, but was unable to define its extent. Only one thing was
now certain--he had sold that clock on which years of toil had been bestowed, and not in vain.
He had but a few days since contemplated certain success, now how far it was from him! And
Hamburgh--to be great and ennobled there, what did that signify to him? How long would it not
take for him, the inhabitant of the great rival city, to be admitted into this new society?
No, he had made an error which could never be recalled; he had broken the ties which were once
so dear to him. Dumiger now learned the great truth, that it is only the opinion of the few
with whom we are most intimate that we care for. It is nothing to be great amongst those with
whom we have no sympathies, no affections in common. The kind word from one lip which we love
is far more to be prized than the loudest acclamations of thousands to whom we are indifferent.

CHAPTER V.

The day at last arrived for the triennial exhibition of the productions of Dantzic art, on
which day the council had agreed that the prize for the clock was to be adjudged. It was a
great fête for the town. At an early hour of the morning the inhabitants began to decorate
their houses with tapestry, and to hang garlands over the door-posts. All classes prepared
their dresses of brightest colors, and their gayest, happiest smiles. And none was happier
than Marguerite, for Dumiger had written to tell her that on the next day he was certain to
be free; but he had not ventured to inform her that the clock was sold to Hamburgh. Still,
although the deed of sale was irrevocable, his feelings would not permit him to believe that
the excellence of his work would remain unknown to his towns-people; he felt convinced that
the strangers vanity would induce him to make use of the secret confided to him, so he wrote
to Marguerite that all would go right. Carl and Krantz arrived early in the morning to accompany
her to the great hall. She had within her a secret which she would not have disclosed to the
universe,--the secret of her husband's success, of his fame and future happiness. So far Dumiger
had informed her that there was an intrigue against him, in which the Grand Master was the
principal: he explained to her that the object the Grand Master had in view was to obtain the
prize and its accompanying honors for his own son. Carl and Krantz undertook to protect her
through the crowd, and it was with an abundant feeling of confidence that she dressed for the
ceremonial.

She wore her hair braided round her head; a bodice, which showed the beauty and shape of her
form, of scarlet cloth, attached by threads of gold across the shirt, which was of the softest
and most delicate material; the short blue petticoat, which reached some way below the knee,
but did not descend so far as to conceal the ankle, the symmetry of which was well-defined
by the silk stocking. The shoe might have stirred the envy of any grisette in Paris--a class
which was, even in those days, supposed to enjoy a monopoly of taste and refinement. There
was a modesty combined with refinement and strength of character in the appearance of Marguerite
which would have distinguished her in any crowd. She was a being for love and sunshine; but
one who, at the same time, would have dared much for him she loved. The kind and generous are
ever gallant, and rarely are the beautiful unworthy.

Carl and Krantz were also dressed out in their gayest costumes. It would have been hard to
have decided which was the predominant color in the dresses of these two worthy citizens; they
would have rivaled any tulip bed in a Dutch garden, and perfectly dazzled Marguerite when they
entered the room.

At length the last touch was given to the toilette, and they sallied forth. Already the streets
were so crowded that it was difficult to move through them; but Carl and Krantz were determined,
energetic fellows, and what with their elbows and Marguerite's bright smiles, after incurring
a few risks of some jokes on Carl's extravagant appearance, they reached the great hall.

The street in front of the Courthouse was lined with the burgher guard, stationed there to
keep back the crowd; but Marguerite had an order for admittance at a private entrance, so,
escorted by her cavalier, she ascended the staircase.

When she entered the hall she was struck with awe and astonishment. The whole of that enormous
space, with the exception of the portion railed off for the competitors and the dais where
the council were sitting, was crowded by a dense mass of people: along the sides of the vast
edifice, and up to the very roof, were arranged all the various productions of national art.
Nothing can be pictured more beautiful than the combination of rich and varied colors, or more
curious than the forms which art and genius had given them: here were dyes which might have
rivaled those of Tyre, and fabrics of finer texture than a Penelope could have woven. At one
end, toward which Marguerite's eyes were most anxiously turned, the models of the clocks were
arranged. Dumiger's was placed in the center, for it was at the same time the largest model,
and contained the most elaborate and complicated machinery; but, alas! the works remained still,
while all the others were in motion, and showed in the smallest space the movements of the
heavenly bodies, and the progress of time. If Dumiger's meant anything more than a confused
mass of machinery, it could not for a moment be doubted that it was the work of highest genius
exhibited, but in its quiescent state it contrasted disadvantageously with the admirable systems
revolving round it. Marguerite held her breath while she gazed; neither did she perceive how
much attention she herself had awakened--the moment for vanity had passed, her present interests
lay far deeper. Immediately above her the Grand Council, with the Grand Master, were sitting,
dressed in their robes of state. The Count Albrecht wore his cordon of the Fleece, and looked
every inch a grand master; the anxiety for his son's success was apparent in the nervous glances
which he cast around him. Behind, and amid the retainers, stood the dark, designing-looking
stranger, who held in his hand the fate of Dumiger.

The heralds proclaimed silence, and then the Grand Master rose to read the decision of the
council. It commenced with reciting the list of the competitors, and when it mentioned Dumiger's
name, it said, "the work is imperfect, and therefore must be withdrawn."

"It is not imperfect," cried two stentorian voices from the farther end of the hall.

The voices proceeded from Carl and Krantz, whose excitement could no longer be retained.

"No! it is not imperfect," said the gentler voice of Marguerite.

All eyes were turned toward the spot whence that voice proceeded. Marguerite nearly fainted
to find herself the object of so much attention.

"Keep your courage," whispered Carl. "Tell them that Dumiger will soon be free, and the works
put in motion. I will tell them for you," he exclaimed, and he began to speak, when the mysterious
stranger stepped forth.

"Stay," he said, "let me touch the works of this clock--the secret is mine."

He forced his way through the crowd, looked carefully over the machinery, opened a secret spring,
arranged two small wheels, on which the accurate movement of the whole machinery depended,
and immediately it was all in motion.

The proceeding was watched with intense interest by all. The stranger's eye gleamed with delight,
for he was anxious, with the true spirit of Hamburg jealousy, that the people of Dantzic should
feel the value of what they were about to lose.

It was indeed a marvelous piece of workmanship: the planets all revolved in their regular order,
figures of exquisite workmanship appeared and disappeared to mark the seconds, and the dial
plate was of elaborate beauty. The people for some time stood entranced in wonder. At last
they exclaimed, as with one voice--

"It is a work worthy of Dantzic--and Dumiger has won! Dumiger forever'."

If Marguerite had nearly fainted from fear, she was now pale with delight.

"Dumiger, Dumiger forever!" again shouted the crowd; "where is the laurel? where is the triumph?
Greatest amongst his citizens, Dumiger has won!"

But at that moment the stranger came forward with a paper in his hand. The Count's face, which
had been overspread with anger and shame at these shouts, was again lit up with hope, for after
Dumiger's his son's was evidently the best.

"You mistake, my friends," said this man: "Dumiger is not a citizen of Dantzic, but of Hamburg,
and the clock belongs to that noblest of free cities."

"Madman! fool!" burst from the astonished crowd; "we all know Dumiger, his family are eminent
in the list of our freemen--you are mad! Grand Master, proclaim that Dumiger has won the prize,
that Dumiger is great."

Joy thrilled through Marguerite's frame.

The Grand Master rose, and his voice trembled with anxiety and secret pleasure as he spoke.

"It is too true," he said; "the clock is sold to Hamburg, and Dumiger has lost his rights of
citizenship here by becoming a freeman of that town. The prize, therefore, in accordance with
the decision of the council, is adjudged to the second--to my son."

Then the anger of the people rose, wild and savage; in one moment, like the bursting of a thunder-cloud,
the whole aspect of the place had changed.

"Show us the deed!" they exclaimed.

The stranger took it and held it up. There was no mistaking it; it was headed by the arms of
Hamburg, and signed by Dumiger. The storm of indignation had subsided for a moment, but only
as it seemed to gain additional strength.

"Tear him in pieces--he shall not have the clock. Down with Dumiger--crucify the man who could
prefer the freedom of Hamburg to the honors of Dantzic. Down with him!"

And the people tore up the benches, drove back the burgher guard; some of the boldest dashed
on the platform; the Grand Council had to escape, carrying the stranger with them. The mob
tore out of the hall, and told their friends outside--anger led to anger, the passions rose
like the waves at the equinox. Nothing could stop the mob, from so apparently trifling a cause
a tumult was created; the jealousy of the townsmen now appeared--that jealousy, smothered and
subdued for so many years, burst forth in this madness.

Poor Marguerite had fainted. Carl and Krantz, by herculean exertions, dragged her through the
mob; she was taken to a small room over the great hall, and laid there until the storm should
be appeased.

It did not seem likely to be so. Unfortunately, one of the guards had in the tumult struck
a burgher; in some of the smaller streets they were even now fighting; but the crowd in the
great square seemed to have a firmer purpose, there was a gradual calm. At last one man climbed
up the statue in the Center of the square.

"Where is Dumiger?" he asked.

And another voice answered, "He is in the debtor's prison."

"We will go and lead him to his triumph," was the dark and threatening reply of the people,
who now moved forward in columns.

CHAPTER VI.

The two days which elapsed since the interview with the stranger had been passed by Dumiger
in great misery. He blamed himself deeply for having been so easily entrapped into what he
feared would prove a snare, and very foolishly, as we have seen, he wrote to Marguerite that
she had everything to hope, as he still retained the desire of being honored by his fellow-townsmen,
although they were not to enjoy the fruit of his labors.

On the eventful morning which has been described, Dumiger arose full of hope, his triumph was
to be secured; and in the evening he even entertained a secret impression and belief that the
people would not permit the clock to be removed, and that the error he had made might be retrieved
by their energetic wills. He heard the bands of music playing in the distance. The merry chimes
floated over the water, and bade him good speed. He thought that he could even discern the
buzz of enjoyment, and the shout of anticipated triumph. He took out the last letter which
Marguerite had written to him, and pressed it to his heart; that day, he thought, was to see
them united never to be parted again.

What sound was that?--Was it the wind? No, the murmur of many voices, the tramp of a thousand
feet, shook the drawbridge. He heard his own name called out. Yes, it is! it surely cannot
be an error; it is Dumiger they are invoking. Now there can be no mistake, the crowd unite
in one loud cry,--

"Where is Dumiger?"

"I am here, I am here," he shrieks out; "Open the gates."

What could it mean? the guards were resisting. There is a shot fired--is this the way in which
a triumph is conducted? There is a pause--a parley.

"We want the man Dumiger, the prisoner," exclaims one.

"Good, you shall have him. Let but a few enter," says the lieutenant of the tower, "and the
guard shall withdraw."

Immediately there is a loud rush on the stair, not the tramp, tramp, of regular troops.

"Here, here!" exclaims Dumiger; "here am I, my friends! Welcome, welcome!" and he rushes to
embrace the first who enters.

"Back, traitor!" answers the man.

Dumiger tumbles against the wall in terror and astonishment.

"Yes, you are the traitor," continued he who acted the part of leader of the motley crowd;
"you have sold your birthright--you have betrayed our interests. What punishment is fit for
such a usurer?"

"Down, down with him," cried the mob.

The leaders consulted together for one moment.

