Among the multitudes of diverse and opposing religions which afflict mankind, it is self-evident
that but one religion may justly claim the inspiration of truth, and it is equally evident
to all reasoning minds that that religion is the religion of kindness and humanity,--the religion
of noble thoughts and generous deeds,--which removes the enmities of race and creed, and "makes
the whole world kin!" And which, in its observance is blessed with sympathy, friendship, happiness
and love.

This religion needs no creed, no profession of faith, no incense, no prayer, no penance, no
sacrifice. Its whole duty consists in comforting the afflicted, assisting the unfortunate,
protecting the helpless, and in honestly fulfilling our duties to our fellow mortals. In the
language of Confucius, the ancient Chinese Sage, it is simply "to behave to others as I would
require others to behave to me."

The same benign and generous conduct is commended in even grander and nobler language in the
lectures to the French Masonic Lodges: "Love one another, teach one another, help one another.
That is all our doctrine, all our science, all our law."

It is believed that the learned dissertation of Lord Brougham on the Origin of Evil, which
is annexed to this work, will need no commendation to ensure its careful perusal.

                         PETER ECKLER.

THE FALLEN STAR, or, THE HISTORY OF A FALSE RELIGION

by E. L. Bulwer

AN ALLEGORY OF THE STARS.

FORMING A NEW RELIGION.

ON THE ORIGIN OF EVIL

By Lord Brougham

A DISSERTATION ON THE ORIGIN OF EVIL.

The question which has more than, any other harassed metaphysical reasoners, but especially
theologians, and upon which it is probable that no very satisfactory conclusion will ever be
reached by the human faculties, is the Origin and Sufferance of Evil.

Its existence being always assumed, philosophers have formed various theories for explaining
it, but they have always drawn very different inferences from it.

The ancient Epicureans argued against the existence of the Deity, because they held that the
existence of Evil either proved him to be limited in power or of a malignant nature; either
of which imperfections is inconsistent with the first notions of a divine being.

In this kind of reasoning they have been followed both by the atheists and sceptics of later times.

Bayle regarded the subject of evil as one of the great arsenals from whence his weapons were
to be chiefly drawn. None of the articles in his famous Dictionary are more labored than those
in which he treats of this subject. Monichian, and still more Paulician, almost assume the
appearance of formal treatises upon the question; and both Marchionite and Zoroaster treat
of the same subject. All these articles are of considerable value; they contain the greater
part of the learning upon the question; and they are distinguished by the acuteness of reasoning
which was the other characteristic of their celebrated author.

Those ancient philosophers who did not agree with Epicurus in arguing from the existence of
evil against the existence of a providence that superintended and influenced the destinies
of the world, were put to no little difficulty in accounting for the fact which they did not
deny, and yet maintaining the power of a divine ruler. The doctrine of a double principle,
or of two divine beings of opposite natures, one beneficent, the other mischievous, was the
solution which one class of reasoners deemed satisfactory, and to which they held themselves
driven by the phenomena of the universe.

Others unable to deny, the existence of things which men denominate evil, both physical and
moral, explain them in a different way. They maintained that physical evil only obtains the
name from our imperfect and vicious or feeble dispositions; that to a wise man there is no
such thing; that we may rise superior to all such groveling notions as make us dread or repine
at any events which can befall the body; that pain, sickness, loss of fortune or of reputation,
exile, death itself, are only accounted ills by a weak and pampered mind; that if we find the
world tiresome, or woeful, or displeasing, we may at any moment quit it; and that therefore
we have no right whatever to call any suffering connected with existence on earth an evil,
because almost all sufferings can be borne by a patient and firm mind; since if the situation
we are placed in becomes either intolerable, or upon the whole more painful than agreeable,
it is our own fault that we remain in it.

But these philosophers took a further view of the question which especially applied to moral
evil. They considered that nothing could be more groundless than to suppose that if there were
no evil there could be any good in the world; and they illustrated this position by asking
how we could know anything of temperance, fortitude or justice, unless there were such things
as excess, cowardice and injustice.

These were the doctrines of the Stoics, from whose sublime and impracticable philosophy they
seemed naturally enough to flow. Aulus Gellius relates that the last-mentioned argument was
expounded by Chrysippus, in his work upon providence. The answer given by Plutarch seems quite
sufficient: "As well might you say that Achilles could not have a fine head of hair unless
Thersites had been bald; or that one man's limbs could not be all sound if another had not
the gout."

In truth, the Stoical doctrine proceeds upon the assumption that all virtue is only the negative
of vice; and is as absurd, if indeed it be not the very same absurdity, as the doctrine which
should deny the existence of affirmative or positive truths, resolving them all into the opposite
of negative propositions. Indeed, if we even were to admit this as an abstract position, the
actual existence of evil would still be unnecessary to the idea, and still more to the existence,
of good. For the conception of evil, the bare idea of its possibility, would be quite sufficient,
and there would be no occasion for a single example of it.

The other doctrine, that of two opposite principles, was embraced by most of the other sects,
as it should seem, at some period or other of their inquiries. Plato himself, in his later
works, was clearly a supporter of the system; for he held that there were at least two principles,
a good and an evil; to which he added a third, the moderator or mediator between them.

Whether this doctrine was, like many others, imported into Greece from the East, or was the
natural growth of the schools, we cannot ascertain. Certain it is that the Greeks themselves
believed it to have been taught by Zoroaster in Asia, at least five centuries before the Trojan
war; so that it had an existence there long before the name of philosophy was known in the
western world.

Zoroaster's doctrine agreed in every respect with Plato's; for besides Oomazes, the good, and
Arimanius, the evil principle, he taught that there was a third, or mediatory one, called Mithras.
That it never became any part of the popular belief in Greece or Italy is quite clear. All
the polytheism of those countries recognized each of the gods as authors alike of good and
evil. Nor did even the chief of the divinities, under whose power the rest were placed, offer
any exception to the general rule; for Jupiter not only gave good from one urn and ill from
another, but he was also, according to the barbarous mythology of classical antiquity, himself
a model at once of human perfections and of human vices.

After the light of the Christian religion had made some way toward supplanting the ancient
polytheism, the doctrine of two principles was broached; first by Marcion, who lived in the
time of Adrian and Antonius Pius, early in the second century; and next by Manes, a hundred
years later. He was a Persian slave, who was brought into Greece, where he taught this doctrine,
since known by his name, having learned it, as is said, from Scythianus, an Arabian. The Manichean
doctrines, afterwards called also Paulician, from a great teacher of them in the seventh century,
were like almost all the heresies in the primitive church, soon mixed up with gross impurities
of sacred rites as well as extravagant absurdities of creed.

The Manicheans were, probably as much on this account as from the spirit of religious intolerance,
early the objects of severe persecution; and the Code of Justinian itself denounces capital
punishment against any of the sect, if found within the Roman dominions.

It must be confessed that the theory of two principles, when kept free from the absurdities
and impurities which were introduced into the Manichean doctrine, is not unnaturally adopted
by men who have no aid from the light of revelation,[1] and who are confounded by the appearance
of a world where evil and good are mixed together, or seem to struggle with one another, sometimes
the one prevailing, and sometimes the other; and accordingly, in all countries, in the most
barbarous nations, as well as among the most refined, we find plain traces of reflecting men
having been driven to this solution of the difficulty.

It seems upon a superficial view to be very easily deducible from the phenomena; and as the
idea of infinite power, with which it is manifestly inconsistent, does by no means so naturally
present itself to the mind, as long as only a very great degree of power, a power which in
comparison of all human force may be termed infinite, is the attribute with which the Deity
is believed to be endued. Manichean hypothesis is by no means so easily refuted. That the power
of the Deity was supposed to have limits even in the systems of the most enlightened heathens
is unquestionable. They, generally speaking, believed in the eternity of matter, and conceived
some of its qualities to be so essentially necessary to its existence that no divine agency
could alter them. They ascribed to the Deity a plastic power, a power not of creating or annihilating,
but only of moulding, disposing and moving matter. So over mind they generally give him the
like power, considering it as a kind of emanation from his own greater mind or essence, and
destined to be re-united with him hereafter. Nay, over all the gods, and of superior potency
to any, they conceived fate to preside; an overruling and paramount necessity, of which they
formed some dark conceptions, and to which the chief of all the gods was supposed to submit.
It is, indeed, extremely difficult to state precisely what the philosophic theory of theology
was in Greece and Rome, because the wide difference between the esoteric and exoteric doctrines,
between the belief of the learned few and the popular superstition, makes it very difficult
to avoid confounding the two, and lending to the former some of the grosser errors with which
the latter abounded. Nevertheless, we may rely upon what has been just stated, as conveying,
generally speaking, the opinion of philosophers, although some sects certainly had a still
more scanty measure of belief.

But we shall presently find that in the speculation of the much more enlightened moderns, Christians
of course, errors of a like kind are to be traced. They constantly argue the great question
of evil upon a latent assumption, that the power of the Deity is restricted by some powers
or qualities inherent in matter; notions analogous to that of faith are occasionally perceptible;
not stated or expanded indeed into propositions, but influencing the course of the reasoning;
while the belief of infinite attributes is never kept steadily in view, except when it is called
in as requisite to refute the Manichean doctrines. Some observers of the controversy have indeed
not scrupled to affirm that those of whom we speak are really Manicheans without knowing it;
and build their systems upon assumptions secretly borrowed from the disciples of Zoroaster,
without ever stating those assumptions openly in the form of postulates or definition.

The refutation of the Manichean hypothesis is extremely easy if we be permitted to assume that
both the principles which it supposes are either of infinite power or of equal power. If they
are of infinite power, the supposition of their co-existence involves a contradiction in terms;
for the one being in opposition to the other, the power of each must be something taken from
that of the other; consequently neither can be of infinite power. If, again, we only suppose
both to be of equal power, and always acting against each other, there could be nothing whatever
done, neither good or evil; the universe would be at a standstill; or rather no act of creation
could ever have been performed, and no existence could be conceived beyond that of the two
antagonistic principles.

Archbishop Tillotson's argument, properly speaking, amounts to this last proposition, and is
applicable to equal and opposite principles, although he applies it to two beings, both infinitely
powerful and counteracting one another. When he says they would tie up each other's bands,
he might apply this argument to such antagonistic principles if only equal, although not infinitely
powerful. The hypothesis of their being both infinitely powerful needs no such refutation;
it is a contradiction in terms. But it must be recollected that the advocates of the Manichean
doctrine endeavor to guard themselves against the attack by contending, that the conflict between
the two principles ends in a kind of compromise, so that neither has it all his own way; there
is a mixture of evil admitted by the good principle, because else the whole would beat a standstill;
while there is much good admitted by the evil principle, else nothing, either good or evil,
would be done. Another answer is therefore required to this theory than what Tillotson and
his followers have given.

First, we must observe that this reasoning of the Manicheans proceeds upon the analogy of what
we see in mortal contentions; where neither party having the power to defeat the other, each
is content to yield a little to his adversary, and so, by mutual concession, both are successful
to some extent, and both to some extent disappointed. But in a speculation concerning the nature
of the Deity, there seems no place for such notions.

Secondly, the equality of power is not an arbitrary assumption; it seems to follow from the
existence of the two opposing principles. For if they are independent of one another as to
existence, which they must needs be, else one would immediately destroy the other, so must
they also, in each particular instance, be independent of each other, and also equal each to
the other, else one would have the mastery, and the influence of the other could not be perceived.
To say that in some things the good principle prevails and in others the evil, is really saying
nothing more than that good exists here and evil there. It does not further the argument one
step, nor give anything like an explanation. For it must always be borne in mind that the whole
question respecting the Origin of Evil proceeds upon the assumption of a wise, benevolent and
powerful Being having created the world. The difficulty, and the only difficulty, is, how to
reconcile existing evil with such a Being's attributes; and if the Manichean only explains
this by saying the good Being did what is good, and another and evil Being did what is bad
in the universe, he really tells us nothing more than the fact; he does not apply his explanation
to the difficulty; and he supposes the existence of a second Deity gratuitously and to no kind
of purpose.

But, thirdly, in whatever light we view the hypothesis, it seems exposed to a similar objection,
namely, of explaining nothing in its application, while it is wholly gratuitous in itself.
It assumes, of course, that creation was the act of the good Being; and it also assumes that
Being's goodness to have been perfect, though his power is limited. Then as he must have known
the existence of the evil principle and foreseen the certainty of misery being occasioned by
his existence, why did he voluntarily create sentient beings, to put them, in some respects
at least, under the evil one's power, and thus be exposed to suffering? The good Being, according
to this theory, is the remote cause of the evil which is endured, because but for his act of
creation the evil Being could have had, no subjects whereon to work mischief; so that the hypothesis
wholly fails in removing, by more than one step, the difficulty which it was invented to solve.

Fourthly, there is no advantage gained to the argument by supposing two Beings, rather than
one Being of a mixed nature. The facts lead to this supposition just as naturally as to the
hypothesis of two principles. The existence of the evil Being is as much a detraction from
the power of the good one, as if we only at once suppose the latter to be of limited power,
and that he prefers making and supporting creatures who suffer much less than they enjoy, to
making no creatures at all. The supposition that he made them as happy as he could, and that
not being able to make them less miserable, he yet perceived that upon the whole their existence
would occasion more happiness than if they never had any being at all, will just account for
the phenomena as well as the Manichean theory, and will as little as that theory assume any
malevolence in the power which created and preserved the universe. If, however, it be objected
that this hypothesis leaves unexplained the fetters upon the good Being's power, the answer
is obvious; it leaves those fetters not at all less explained than the Manichean theory does;
for that theory gives no explanation of the existence of a counteracting principle, and it
assumes both an antagonistic power, to limit the Deity's power, and a malevolent principle
to set the antagonistic power in motion; whereas our supposition assumes no malevolence at
all, but only a restraint upon the divine power.

Fifthly, this leads us to another and most formidable objection. To conceive the eternal existence
of one Being infinite in power, "self-created and creating all others," is by no means impossible.
Indeed, as everything must have had a cause, nothing we see being by possibility self-created,
we naturally mount from particulars to generals, until finally we rise to the idea of a first
cause, uncreated, and self-existing, and eternal. If the phenomena compels us to affix limits
to his goodness, we find it impossible to conceive limits to the power of a creative, eternal,
self-existing principle. But even supposing we could form the conception of such a Being having
his power limited as well as his goodness, still we can conceive no second Being independent
of him. This would necessarily lead to the supposition of some third Being, above and antecedent
to both, and the creator of both--the real first cause--and then the whole question would be
to solve over again,--Why these two antagonistic Beings were suffered to exist by the great
Being of all?

