A. One day Mr. Wind and Mr. Sun got into a quarrel about who was the strongest. While they
were at it, a man in a heavy overcoat came walking along the road. When Mr. Wind saw the man
he said, "Now see that man down there. I can make him take off his coat, but you can't." Mr.
Sun replied, "I don't believe you can do it, but I can, though," then Mr. Wind said, "Well,
I'll show you, you conceited thing!" So the Wind blew and blew, fierce and loud like a lion
attacking his prey, but the man wouldn't take off his coat. He drew it around him and buttoned
it up and hung on to it.

Q. I like your story. But how many people were talking?

A. Two.

Q. Did you mean to say "strongest"?

A. Stronger.

It is not necessary to continue this farther, for enough has been written to show how a story
may be developed and improved with each retelling.

The same style of work, perhaps to even better advantage, may be done from the pictures so
numerous in Journeys Through Bookland. In this volume, under the title Pictures and Their Use,
will be found plentiful suggestions that will be helpful in conversation lessons.

2. Written Lessons

A. Introduction.

The demands of written composition are so much more severe than those of oral composition that
we must be careful not to ask more than the child can execute with comparative ease. Before
he begins to write, he should have clear ideas of what he intends to write and should have
those ideas so arranged that they will not be confused in the process of writing. Moreover,
a child must become quite familiar with writing as an art before he can be expected to originate
ideas or forms of expression for the purpose of writing them. It follows, then, that some of
the early written work in language may profitably consist of copying selections of various kinds.

The titles given under the preceding section (Oral Lessons) will lead to many excellent exercises
for this purpose. Insist on perfect accuracy of copy. Spelling, capitalization and punctuation
must be correct. If the original is prose, insist upon proper paragraphing; if poetry, upon
exactness in the arrangement of the lines, especially in the matter of indentation. Children
will quickly see the relation that indentation bears to rhymes. By following with exactness,
the child learns unconsciously to observe the general rules. By occasionally calling attention
to the reasons for forms, children are taught to act intelligently and to decide for themselves
when they come to original composition.

Rhythm is as natural as breathing, and rhyming is easy for children with quick ears and quick
thought. You will be surprised the first time you try the exercise to see how quickly they
will imitate a rhythm with which they are familiar, and the skill they show in making rhymes.
Try it first as an oral exercise, and later ask for written lines. Much of such work may not
be profitable, but it serves well to give variety. Making simple parodies is amusing and stimulating
to thought. Sometimes you will help by suggesting rhymes or by giving hints as to the subject
to be parodied.

Take the nursery rhyme There Was an Old Woman (Volume I, page 36) for a model. Suggest bird
and nest as ideas for new rhymes and keep helping until you get something like this:

    There was a sweet birdie
      Who built a fine nest,
    A beautiful birdie
      With a very red breast.

Use the same meter many times over till all become familiar with it. Similar exercises prove
highly interesting to children of all ages.

Although this is not a treatise on written language lessons, a few general suggestions may
not be out of place:

1. Be sure that the children have something interesting about which to write.

2. Be sure that they have a good stock of ideas on the subject, or that they know how and where
to get information and can get it without great difficulty.

3. Be sure that they write an outline of their composition or have one thoroughly in mind before
they begin on the essay itself.

4. Give plenty of time for the writing.

5. Show a decided interest in their preparation and in their compositions.

6. Do not be severe in your criticisms. Give encouragement. Concentrate your efforts on one
or two errors at a time. Let other mistakes pass till a more convenient time.

7. a. Watch for errors:

    (1) In the use of capital letters.

    (2) In the use of punctuation marks; first of terminal marks, then
of the marks within a sentence.

  b. See that every sentence is complete, with subject and predicate.

  c. See that verbs agree with subjects, and pronouns with antecedents.

  d. Insist that the work be paragraphed.

  e. Watch for errors in case among the pronouns. The objective case is
troublesome.

  f. Look for adjective forms where adverbial forms are correct.

8. Require care in all work. Neatness and legibility are essential.

9. Mark errors, do not correct them. Let the children do that. A simple system of marks will
enable you to indicate the nature of the error.

10. When the mistakes have been corrected, have a neat copy made and preserved.

11. Try sincerely to work with your children and to secure a genuine spirit of co-operation.

B. Literature in Written Lessons.

Indirectly, all that is said on the teaching of reading in this and other volumes bears upon
language, and you are earnestly urged to consider it all carefully in that light. More directly,
what has been written herein on the subject of conversation lessons and oral language is a
necessary preliminary to any discussion of written work and should be used freely in the assignment
and preparation of subjects for written exercises. The outlines for study in reading and the
outlines of the oral lessons are easily modified to become very satisfactory outlines for compositions.
The selections recommended for oral lessons are all adapted to written work.

NARRATION. As in other instances, however, it here seems wise to give a few suggestions specifically
for the written exercises, and as a basis for such suggestions we will take selections from
Journeys Through Bookland.

Robin Hood has been an interesting character for many generations of schoolboys, and among
the ballads concerning him (Volume III, page 436) are several good selections for reading aloud.
Most children know something about Robin Hood and many of them have read full accounts, yet
probably the old ballads are not familiar. The note on page 436 gives information about the
ballads and tells what it is necessary to know about Robin Hood himself. Suppose we take as
a subject the ballad on page 444, Robin Hood and the Stranger. The notes explain peculiar expressions
and give the meanings of obsolete words. There is a manly, rough-and-tumble spirit in the ballad
that boys like, and it is clean and wholesome, as well.

Read the ballad to the children, explaining the more obscure words and phrases as you go along.
Encourage the children to ask questions whenever they do not fully understand. Talk freely
until you have made everything clear and have secured interest. Then read the whole ballad
without interruption. Read with expression and enthusiasm. Show the spirit and virility of the men.

Then by questions bring out the facts of the narrative in logical order as they appear, and
have each child copy them for himself. They constitute the outline each is to write. Adapt
the outline to the age and acquirements of the child; make it as full or as brief as you please,
but make it logical and complete. Let it be similar to the following:

1. Robin Hood goes hunting.

2. He meets a well-dressed stranger.

3. The stranger kills a deer by a remarkable shot with his bow.

4. Robin Hood invites the stranger to join his company.

5. The stranger threatens Robin Hood.

6. They prepare to fight with bows.

7. Robin Hood thinks it a pity that either should be slain, and proposes to fight with broadswords.

8. Robin Hood strikes a heavy blow which the stranger returns with interest.

9. Robin Hood feels great respect for the stranger's power, and asks who he is.

10. The stranger proves to be Robin Hood's only nephew.

11. They meet Little John, who wants to fight young Gamwell.

12. Robin Hood compels peace, makes Gamwell second to Little John and names him Scarlet.

Talk to the children freely after you have made the outline; advise them to make the story
interesting, dramatic, and not too long. Show them that it is better to use direct discourse;
that is, to make the characters seem alive. The result will be a good narration, the simplest
and most common form of written discourse.

DESCRIPTION. To so describe a scene to another person that he may see it clearly and vividly
is high art. It is necessary in narration and often lends strength to description and exposition.
Accordingly, it is one of the most important forms of composition. In no direction, perhaps,
can Journeys Through Bookland be of greater assistance.

I. In the first place, the pictures are a mine of subjects for description. The pictures themselves
may be described, and many of them will suggest other subjects for similar tasks. For instance,
in Volume V, on page 219, is a picture of Sir Galahad when the Holy Grail appears to him. Some
of the topics for description are the following:

1. The picture, Sir Galahad. (For suggestions as to the description of pictures, etc., see
the topic Pictures and Their Use, in this volume.)

2. The trees in the forest.

3. The armor of Sir Galahad and the trappings of his horse.

Again, in Volume V, on page 17, is the picture of Gulliver's Journey to the Metropolis, which
gives us these topics:

1. The picture.

2. The cart on which the Lilliputians transport Gulliver. (Read the account in the story for
further facts.)

Facing page 116 in the same volume is the halftone of King Arthur in armor. To write a minute
description of the armor would be an excellent exercise, requiring close observation and not
a little reading, if the children wish to name the pieces of armor the king wears.

II. Many of the stories contain beautiful descriptive passages, which may be studied with profit,
and some of the selections are almost wholly descriptive. An excellent example of the latter
type and an exceedingly interesting article for children is Some Children's Books of the Past
(Volume V, Page 101).

The King of the Golden River (Volume II, page 405) and A Christmas Carol (Volume VI, page 244)
are especially rich in material of this kind. On page 408 of the former selection the King
is described at his first appearance. An analysis of the paragraph is to be found on page 445
of the same volume, under the title First Appearance. By comparing the analysis and the descriptive
paragraph it will be seen that the former gives the facts only, while in the latter there are
comparisons and descriptive words that make the whole vivid and artistic.

The outline is a good description of an imaginary person. After the children have studied paragraph
and outline, give them another outline like this:

  1. General statement, or introduction.
  2. Nose.
  3. Cheeks.
  4. Eyes.
  5. Beard.
  6. Hair.
  7. Height.
  8. Clothing.
    a. Hat.
    b. Coat.
    c. Vest.
    d. Trousers.
    e. Shoes.

Require each child to follow the outline and to write a smooth, readable description of a man
whom he knows. Vary the exercise by asking the children to describe some man whose picture
you show; some man whom all have seen, or, if it can be done in the proper spirit, one of the
other children who is willing to pose. Then ask them to describe some fanciful character about
whom you make a general statement, as, for example, "He was the most amusing man I ever saw
in my life," or, "He was certainly the most dignified man in appearance and the best-dressed
man I ever saw." A comparison of the descriptions given by the different members of the class
will be amusing and instructive. Try to secure descriptions which in style are in harmony with
the subject.

III. In many of the selections the authors have not tried to describe things very fully. In
such cases you have fine opportunities to train the imagination by asking the children to supplement
the descriptions. For instance, On the Receipt of My Mother's Picture (Volume VII, page 331)
raises among other subjects for descriptive writing the following:

  1. Describe Cowper's mother.
  2. Describe the picture he received.
  3. Describe the home of his infancy.
  4. Describe the "well-havened isle."

Children should be taught to look through the entire poem for facts that bear on the topics.
When writing, they must not misrepresent these facts nor give others that contradict those
in the poem. Where nothing is said, the child may see what he likes. Such exercises tend to
make children appreciate good literature, and, when they are reading, to visualize the things
to which allusion is made.

EXPOSITION. In Volume IV, beginning on page 14, is the story of Martin Pelaez, the Asturian,
which will offer good material for a composition of another kind. The introduction to Cid Campeador,
page 9, will give you information you are likely to need to answer questions.

As in the exercise just given, begin to read and make such explanatory comments as are needed
to show clearly the character of Martin. You will, of course, need to make the story lucid
to the children. Show that--

a. Pelaez was a Spanish grandee of great strength and noble form.

b. He was a coward at heart.

c. Twice he ran from the enemy and avoided battle.

d. Both times he was asked by the Cid to sit with him at the table, and not with the noblest
knights.

e. The first time Martin thought it an honor to himself; the second time, he saw it to be a
grave reproof.

f. Thereafter he fought nobly, was seated with the great knights, and became one of the Cid's
most favored friends.

When these points have been fixed in mind, proceed to develop an outline for the composition.
It may be something like this:

a. The character of Martin as we first meet him in the story, with instances to prove the nature
of it.

b. His character after he was changed by the Cid, with evidences to show it. Exemplified:

1. He was a coward. We know it from--
  (a) His flight during the first battle.
  (b) His retreat during the second battle.
  (c) The fact that he was large, strong and well versed in arms
        yet would not fight.
  (d) The fact that he hoped to escape the notice of the Cid.

2. He was teachable. We know it because he needed but two lessons.

3. He was brave. We know it from his conduct in battle.

4. He had many noble characteristics. We know it because be became the trusted friend of the Cid.

Put into the form of a composition, we might expect something like this:

"Martin Pelaez, when we first knew him, was an arrant coward, for though strong, well-formed
and versed in the use of arms, he more than once fled before the enemy. He had other traits
of a coward, as we may know from his actions in hiding in his tent and hoping to escape the
eye of his master and unfairly gain the reputation of a brave knight.

"Later, however, under the wise treatment of the Cid he was made ashamed of his cowardice,
conquered it and became a courageous warrior. In fact, he was one of the bravest and most powerful
knights in the army of the Cid.

"More than that, Martin Pelaez developed all the traits of a gentleman. He became a good keeper
of secrets, was wise in counsel and brave in action."

The foregoing is a good example of exposition, the third of the four forms of prose composition.

ARGUMENT. The Boston Massacre by Nathaniel Hawthorne (Volume IV, page 217) offers several good
questions for debate. We may select the decision of the judges (page 223) as the one furnishing
the best opportunity.

To bring the question into a form for debate we might write it, "Were the judges right in their
decision?" This leaves the question evenly balanced, with no prejudice against either side.
It might be put more formally: "Resolved. That the judges were right in their decision." The
effect of stating the question in the latter form is to throw the "burden of proof" on the
negative. In other words, if the question is in the latter form and the arguments are equally
balanced, the decision would have to be that the judges were right.

Having determined the form of the question, the children may be separated into two groups,
as nearly as possible equal in ability, and one group may be appointed to take the side of
the judges and one the side of the soldiers.

Having arranged the preliminaries, converse with the children freely, bringing out points equally
in favor of both sides. Avoid any appearance of favoritism. If one side is manifestly stronger
than the other, however, you may put them on a level by showing a few arguments to the weaker
side. Do this openly, so that all may understand your action.

Encourage the children to study both sides of the question and to be fair-minded. In fact,
the ordinary debate where children are appointed to argue upon a certain side of the question
does not bring into play the same good methods of thought and judgment as the free debate,
in which each child studies both sides of the question, determines which side he thinks the
right one, and then argues for that side.

In this question urge the children to study the subject in their histories or in any reference
books that may be handy. Help them to get at the truth of the matter. Hawthorne may show prejudice.
Does he? We may feel a bias in favor of one side or the other. Do we? Then to the extent of
that bias we are liable to be unfair and to fail in making a sound argument.

After the children have read what they can find on the subject, ask them to arrange their arguments
in parallel columns, for and against the judges. Something like the following may appear:

          FOR                            AGAINST

  1. The Americans                1. The English had
  were the subjects of the        oppressed the colonists
  English, and subjects           by unjust taxes and in
  should be loyal.                other ways (mention
                                  them) until the time
                                  for loyalty had ceased.

  2. The colonists                2. If these colonists
  were not an organized           were a mob they were
  body, acting legally.           justified in their acts.
  They were a wild mob,           It was an insult and
  and mobs must be                worse to quarter troops
  quelled or lives and            upon them and they
  property cannot be protected.   naturally resented it.
                                  They had had no time
                                  to organize and make
                                  laws. They had to act
                                  at once.

  3. The mob was                  3. It is always the
  composed of wild                young men who lead.
  young men, and most             In most great movements
  of the colonists did not        it has been the
  approve of their acts.          young men who were
                                  right.

  4. The mob called               4. The soldiers forgot
  the soldiers "lobster-backs,"   their discipline and
  "red-coats," and                called the colonists "rebel
  other insulting names           rascals" and threatened
  before the soldiers             to use bayonets.
  spoke.

  5. The mob crowded              5. The soldiers
  the soldiers off the            should have kept to their
  sidewalk, threw snow            barracks, but they paraded
  and lumps of ice at             the streets and
  them. The young men             pricked the townspeople
  dared the soldiers to           with their bayonets.
  fire, threatened to drive
  them to their barracks
  and to beat them down.

  6. Captain Preston              6. Captain Preston
  was acting under orders,        was unwise, irritating,
  and he warned the colonists     overbearing, and by his
  that he would preserve          attitude provoked the
  order at any risk.              colonists beyond human
                                  endurance.

  7. The firing was a             7. Captain Preston
  mistake. It was not by          ordered his men to fire
  Captain Preston's orders.       on the colonists.

  8. The first shot was           8. A British sympathizer
  fired by a masked man           in a mask fired
  who appeared on the             into the crowd of unarmed
  balcony of a house and          colonists.
  fired at the soldiers.

  9. The British soldiers         9. By withdrawing
  were soon withdrawn             the troops the British
  and everything                  confessed that they were
  done to make the colonists      in the wrong.
  feel right about
  the affair. This showed
  that the British were
  still very friendly to the
  colonists, and desired
  their good will.

  10. Judges who were             10. The judges were
  supposed to be honorable        British appointees, not
  men heard all the               in sympathy with the
  evidence and would not          colonists and too much
  be liable to make any           prejudiced to be able to
  mistake.                        decide fairly.

  11. The judges                  11. The judges knew
  were so thoroughly              they were wrong and
  convinced that the soldiers     were afraid to leave the
  were not guilty                 question to the jury.
  that they told the jury
  what verdict to give.

The "points" given above show some of the really minor debatable topics that arise under the
larger question. They show, too, how differently the same incidents may appear to different
eyes. Perhaps some of the "points" are stated unfairly, to give strength to the argument. Bare
assertions are not proofs and some of the "points" are nothing but assertions. Opinions are
not arguments. Some of the statements would need to bolstered up by facts and "authorities"
before they could be accepted as real arguments.

Most debates are oral, but, for our purpose, they are to be considered as written language
lessons. Hence, when the arguments are marshalled as above, the child should select the side
he feels to be right and compose his argument in proper form. Teach him to see the three parts
to his argument, namely, the introduction, the body of his argument, and the conclusion. Tell
him to make his style personal, clear, concise, logical, strong, persuasive and convincing.
Show him what each characteristic in the above list means.

For example, the argument for the judges made from the assertions given above might be stated
as follows:

Introduction. "That the judges were right when they pronounced Captain Preston and the eight
British soldiers not guilty of murder when they fired on the colonial mob in what is incorrectly
called the 'Boston Massacre' will be proved in this argument."

Body of the Argument. "The citizens of Boston were English subjects who had been fostered by
the mother country. Since the settlement at Plymouth in 1620 no other nation had claimed or
exercised any control over them, and I maintain that loyalty to his country is one of the highest
duties of every citizen." (It is not advisable to write here the "body" of the argument. It
would naturally be continued step by step till the eleven "points" given above had been exhausted.
If those "points" had been brought up in the general conversation lesson every child would
be expected to add others that he had found by his own study. Liberty of omission, arrangement
and addition should always be allowed. Originality is always at a premium.)

Conclusion. "I have now presented to you the reasons for my belief. I have shown you conclusively
that the colonists were British subjects and owed unquestioning loyalty to their country; that----[Here
recapitulate briefly but forcibly the arguments, so as to present them convincingly and at
one time.] In view of all these facts I maintain that I have shown that the judges did not
err when they pronounced Captain Preston and the eight soldiers not guilty of murder."

Of course, the form of the introduction and conclusion may vary from that given here. Each
child should be allowed the greatest freedom of expression consistent with the facts that there
must be an introduction that states the question fairly and clearly, and a conclusion that
shows how much the contentions have been proved.

CONCLUSION. While narration, description, exposition and argument are the four forms of prose
composition, we do not find frequently that selections are exclusively one or another. Nearly
every story contains description, and exposition is not infrequent; expositions often contain
description and narration, and arguments are often based upon narration and exposition. Excellent
language lessons may be given by examining masterpieces to see what forms of composition they
represent or which form predominates.

Thus, in An Exciting Canoe Race (Volume VII, page 79), an extract from Cooper's The Last of
the Mohicans, may be found several forms of composition:

1. The story as a whole is narration.

2.

3.

It will be observed that the paragraph just quoted is not purely descriptive, but that it contains
something of narration as well.

The following, from page 90, is a brief argument in conversational form, the elementary form
of debate:

"Get you then into the bottom of the canoe, you and the colonel; it will be so much taken from
the size of the mark."

Good selections to use for the purposes described and good subjects for compositions are the
following from Journeys Through Bookland:

For Narration:

  1. Stories from The Swiss Family Robinson, Volume III, page 99.
  2. The Story of Siegfried, III, 410.
  3. The Death of Hector, IV, 364.
  4. Tom Brown at Rugby, V, 469.
  5. The Recovery of the Hispaniola, VII, 352.
  6. The Adventure of the Windmills, VII, 438.
  7. The Adventure of the Wooden Horse, VII, 467.
  8. The Battle of Ivry, VIII, 76.

For Description:

  1. How the Old Woman Looked. See The Old Woman Who Lived in a
     Shoe, Volume I, page 35.
  2. The House in the Tree. See Swiss Family Robinson, III, 141.
  3. A Forest Scene. See Pictures of Memory, IV, 128.
  4. Sheridan's Horse. See Sheridan's Ride, IV, 223.
  5. Christmas. See The Fir Tree, II, 68, and Christmas in Old
     Time, VI, 356.
  6. A Scene of My Childhood. See The Old Oaken Bucket, VII, 11.
  7. My Old Kentucky Home. See poem of the same name, VII, 179.

For Exposition:

  1. The Character of the Boy, Tom. See Tom, the Water Baby, Volume
     II, page 215.
  2. What Kind of a Man was Viking? See The Skeleton in Armor, V,
     327.
  3. Exaggeration and Falsehood. See Baron Munchausen, V, 403.
  4. On the construction, meaning, and sentiment in "Home, Sweet
     Home." See VI, 221.
  5. The Strength of the Gorilla Compared with that of the Elephant.
     See A Gorilla Hunt, VII, 247, and Elephant Hunting, VI, 385.
  6. The Wit of the Visitor. See Limestone Broth, VI, 467.
  7. A Character Sketch of Alice and John. See Dream Children. VIII,
     335.

For Argument:

  1. Was the Second Traveler in the Right? See The Two Travelers,
     Volume I, page 109.
  2. Were the Three Men Perfectly Healthy? See We Plan a River Trip,
     V, 443.
  3. Was the Punishment of the Ancient Mariner Just? See The Rime of
     the Ancient Mariner, VII, 29.
  4. Was it Sensible for Casabianca to Remain on the Burning Ship? See
     Casabianca, VIII, 313.
  5. Should Warren Hastings Have Been Convicted? See The Impeachment
     of Warren Hastings, IX, 32.

CHAPTER XV

JOURNEYS THROUGH BOOKLAND IN ITS RELATION TO THE SCHOOL--(Continued)

Nature Study

Nature study to be most valuable must be in reality the study of nature. Its beginnings are
in observation and experiment, but there comes a time when the child must go to books for information
and enlightenment. The purposes of nature study are to awaken a spirit of inquiry concerning
things in the immediate vicinity and thence in wider fields; to develop observation, comparison
and reason; to give interests that will charm the possessor through life; to introduce the
elements of the natural sciences. Enthusiasts have made the study of nature the basis of all
school work, the correlating force in all studies. Such an idea has merit in it, for it is
certain that lessons begun in the observation of living things and the phenomena of nature
speedily ramify into language, reading, geography, history, and even mathematics.

There is among some an unfortunate tendency to go too much to books for material and to seize
too quickly any suggestion that leads in that direction. Yet books are valuable at the proper
time and in the proper place. When facts have been learned, they may be made vital by good
literary selections; when facts not accessible by observation are needed, they may be obtained
through books. On the other hand, literature is full of allusions to natural facts and phenomena
and may only be understood by him who knows nature. Both phases of the subject are of vital
interest.

Instead of attempting any systematic outline for nature study we will here try to give help
on two problems only:

First. How may nature study be broadened by the use of literature?

Second. How may the study of nature help in the appreciation of literature?

I.

In trying to answer the first question we will present first a classified list of selections
from Journeys Through Bookland which are closely related to the study of nature and indicate
briefly how they may be used.

A. Seven Long Selections.

In the first place, there are long selections in which there are many anecdotes and incidents
which are usable in nature study. We will give partial lists of what is to be found therein,
but it is well to read the whole selection and choose what is best for the occasion.

1. Tom, the Water Baby (Volume II, page 215). This is one of the most charming stories in the
book, especially for young children, though older ones and even people of mature years will
enjoy it thoroughly. Tom, a little chimney sweep, after perilous adventures, dies, or rather
turns into a newt or eft, a water baby. His exciting life thereafter is in the waters, where
he meets many of its strange denizens. The whole story is highly imaginative, humorous, and
full of fine lessons, beautifully given. The more important of his adventures, from our point
of view, are concerned with the following:

  The Caddis Fly, pages 261-264.
  The Dragon Fly, pages 264-265.
  The Sand Fly, pages 267-269.
  Otters, pages 270-271, 273-274.
  Salmon, pages 272, 279-283.
  Tides, page 287.
  The Turbot, page 289.
  Lobsters, pages 292-294, 300-303.
  Sea Cucumbers, page 297.
  Great Auk, page 339.
  Mother Carey's Chickens (Stormy Petrels), page 344.

2. Robinson Crusoe (Volume III, page 45). Two chapters only are given from this great story,
but the first, dealing with the capture and education of Crusoe's man Friday, may be worth
while to read in connection with studies of savage races. It is not altogether scientific.

3. The Swiss Family Robinson (Volume III, page 99). This famous old story will be charming
to children for many generations to come. It is a tale of the wonderful struggle of a family
against nature. It may be a fact that it is unreasonable and impossible; that not all the seeming
facts are true; that nature never plays so perfectly into the hand of man; that not all the
living things mentioned are to be found in one locality. But it is clean, wholesome adventure,
and the errors in it will do no harm. Many a good language lesson and many an addition to nature
lessons may be drawn from it. The efforts of the family to utilize what they find, though too
successful, are worthy of imitation. Some of the more interesting things met by the family
are the following:

  Lobsters, page 113.
  Oysters, pages 114, 117.
  Agouti, page 116, with a picture on page 116.
  Cocoanuts, pages 125-128.
  Calabash Trees, page 123.
  Monkeys and Cocoanuts, pages 125-128.
  Shark, page 138.
  Turtle, pages 145-149.
  Penguins (picture), page 152, pages 151-153.
  Cassava Bread, pages 154-157.
  Caoutchouc, page 170.
  Onager (Wild Ass), pages 171-174 (picture, page 172).
  New Zealand Flax, pages 175-176.
  Flamingo, page 177.
  Salt Cavern, pages 180-185.
  Herrings, pages 187-188.
  Gypsum, page 188.
  Boa Constrictor, pages 192-195.
  Ostrich, pages 206-215.
  Walrus, page 222.
  Hyenas, pages 227-228.
  Lions, pages 252-256.

4. Brute Neighbors (Volume VII, page 260) is an interesting essay by Henry David Thoreau, the
most delightful of American naturalist writers. In this essay he chats familiarly about the
animals that surround his cottage in the woods, and shows the closeness of his observation
as well as the breadth of his general knowledge. It is a nature study in itself as a whole.
Besides mention of other animals, he tells interesting anecdotes of the following:

  A Wild Mouse, page 261.
  The Partridge, as the ruffed grouse is called in New England, pages
    262-263.
  The Woodcock, page 264.
  The Fighting Ants, pages 264-268.
  The Loon, pages 270-274.

5. The Pond in Winter (Volume VII, page 280). This is another of Thoreau's charming essays
in natural history. It contains a pretty description of the snow and ice covered pond (page
280), an account of fishing through the ice (pages 282-283), and a vivid description of the
pickerel (pages 283-284).

6. Winter Animals (Volume VII, page 293) is a third one of Thoreau's essays. An analysis shows
that he tells something of all the following interesting things:

  I. Winter routes over lakes, pages 293-294.

  II. Sounds by day and night.
    a. The melodious note of a hooting owl, page 294.
    b. The honking of a goose, page 294.
    c. The harsh and tremulous call of a cat-owl, page 294.
    d. The whooping of the ice, page 295.
    e. The barking of foxes, page 295.
    f. The feet of the red squirrel down the sides of the house, page
       295.
    g. The discordant screams of the jays, page 298.
    h. The wiry note of the chickadee, page 298.
    i. The whirring wings of the partridges, page 299.
    j. The yelping of hounds, and the hunting
       horn (including fox hunting), pages 300-304.

  III. The destructiveness of squirrels and wild mice, pages 296-297.

  IV. The hares, pages 304-305.

7. Trees and Ants That Help Each Other (Volume VII, page 306) is a selection from the writings
of Thomas Belt. It is an extremely interesting account of some of the curious adaptations of
plants and animals to each other, as is indicated sufficiently by the title. An outline of
the essay follows:

  I. A species of acacia, pages 306-309.
    1. Houses and feeds ants.
      a. Houses in thorns.
      b. Feeds (1) by glands and (2) by a pear-shaped appendage.
    2. Ants protect trees.
    3. Each seems beneficial to the other.

  II. A cecropia, or trumpet tree, pages 309-311.
    1. Houses and feeds ants.
      a. Houses in hollow stems.
      b. Feeds ants through herds of plant-lice that suck juices of
         plant and secrete honey.
    2. Ants protect trees.
    3. Apparently beneficial to all.

  III. An evergreen shrub.
    1. Houses and (probably) feeds ants.
      a. Houses in pouches at base of leaves.
      b. Probably feeds ants through the services
         of scale insects and plant-lice.
    2. Ants protect shrubs.
    3. Probably beneficial to all.

  IV. Plants feeding ants, pages 311-312.
    1. Orchids.
    2. Passion flowers.
    3. Dog rose.

B. Classified Selections

The following selections, ranging from nursery rhymes to some of the finest things ever written,
may be considered available for the purpose of creating interest in nature study or of adding
to a stock of knowledge already acquired. For convenience, they are classified in a general
way, according to the subject-matter of which they treat:

    I. Flowers and plant life:
    a. Nursery rhymes:
      (1) Daffy-Down-Dilly Has Come Up to Town, Volume I, page 47.
      (2) Mary, Mary Quite Contrary, I, 30.

    b. Fables:
      (1) The Boy and the Nettle, Volume I, page 65.
      (2) The Fox and the Grapes, I, 135.

    c. Fairy Tales:
      (1) The Tree, Volume I, page 301.
      (2) The Flax, I, 378.
      (3) The Fir Tree, II, 68.

    d. Poems:
      (1) The Reaper and the Flowers, Volume I, page 410.
      (2) John's Pumpkin, III, 1.
      (3) The Potato, II, 467.
      (4) The Moss Rose, VI, 98.
      (5) The Daffodils, VII, 1.
      (6) To the Fringed Gentian, VII, 4.
      (7) To a Mountain Daisy, VII, 8.
      (8) The Petrified Fern, VII, 77.

    e. An interesting essay:
      (1) A Bed of Nettles, Volume VIII, page 209.

    f. See references to The Swiss Family Robinson and Trees
         and Ants That Help Each Other, in the earlier part of this
         section.

    II. Birds:
    a. Nursery rhymes:
      (1) Lady Bird, Lady Bird, Volume I, page 12.
      (2) Higgledy, Piggledy, I, 20.
      (3) Poor Robin, I, 16.

    b. Poems:
      (1) Little Birdie, Volume I, page 142.
      (2) The Brown Thrush, I, page 147.
      (3) The English Robin, II, 214.
      (4) Who Stole the Bird's Nest? II, 399.
      (5) Four Ducks on a Pond, VI, 98.
      (6) The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, VII, 29.
      (7) Ode to a Skylark, VII, 275
      (8) To a Waterfowl, VII, 395.
      (9) The Romance of the Swan's Nest, VIII, 315.

    c. Fables:
      (1) The Fox and the Crow, Volume I, page 64.
      (2) The Fox and the Stork, I, 73.
      (3) The Wolf and the Crane, I, 96.
      (4) The Lark and Her Young Ones, I, 131.
      (5) The Owl and the Pussy Cat, I, 339.
      (6) Minerva and the Owl, II, 7.

    d. Fairy Story:
      (1) The Ugly Duckling, Volume I, page 414.

    e. An Essay:
      (1) Owls, IX, page 229.

    f. See also references to Tom, the Water Baby, The Swiss
         Family Robinson, Brute Neighbors, and Winter Animals,
         in earlier parts of this section.

  III. Four-footed animals:
    a. Nursery rhymes:
      (1) Ding Dong Bell, Volume I, page 15.
      (2) Little Bo Peep, I, 9.
      (3) Old Mother Hubbard, I, 24.
      (4) Three Little Kittens, I, 13.
      (3) The Fox and the Stork, I, 73.
      (4) The Gnat and the Bull, I, 70.
      (5) The Lion and the Mouse, I, 75.
      (6) The Wolf and the Crane, I, 96.
      (7) The Fox and the Grapes, I, 135.
      (8) The Bat and the Two Weasels, I, 154.
      (9) The Owl and the Pussy Cat, I, 339.
     (10) The Horse and the Stag, I, 338.
     (11) The Fox, the Wolf, and the Horse, I, 377.
     (12) The Wolf and the Lamb, I, 455.

    c. Poetry:
      (1) The Cow, Volume I, page 106.
      (2) Mercy to Animals, I, 413.
      (3) How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to Aix, V, 335.
      (4) To a Mouse, VII, 5.

    d. Stories:
      (1) A Dog of Flanders, Volume IV, page 93.
      (2) The Lion and the Missionary, VI, 93.
      (3) Rab and His Friends, VI, 99.
      (4) Elephant Hunting, VI, 385.
      (5) The Gorilla Hunt, VII, 247.

    e. Essays:
      (1) Some Clever Monkeys, Volume VI, page 402.

  IV. Reptiles:
    a. Fable:
      (1) The Boys and the Frogs, Volume I, page 63.

    b. See, also, references to Tom, the Water Baby, and The
         Swiss Family Robinson, in the earlier part of this section.

  V. Insects:
    a. Nursery rhyme:
      (1) Little Miss Muffett, Volume I, page 29.

    b. Fable:
      (1) The Gnat and the Bull, I, 70.

    c. Poem:
      (1) The Spider and the Fly, III, 19.

    d. Essay:
      (1) Trees and Ants That Help Each Other, VII, 306.

    e. See, also, references to Tom, the Water Baby, in the earlier
         part of this section.

  VI. Denizens of the water:
    a. Fish:
      (1) Salmon Fishing, Volume VII, page 285.
      (2) "Pickerel," in The Pond in Winter, VII, 280.
      (3) See, also, "Salmon," in Tom, the Water Baby, II, 272, 279-283.

    b. See numerous references to Tom, the Water Baby, in the
         earlier part of this section.

  VII. Natural Phenomena:
    a. Nursery rhymes:
      (1) Rainbow in the Morning, Volume I, page 48.
      (2) If All the World Were Water, I, 48.

    b. Poems:
      (1) Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star, Volume I, page 44.
      (2) The Sun's Travels, I, 68.
      (3) Rain, I, 110.
      (4) Autumn Fires, I, 394.
      (5) The Wind, I, 440.
      (6) The First Snowfall, II 403.
      (7) In Time's Swing, II, 481.
      (8) Echo, III, 286.
      (9) The Rainbow, VI, 91.
     (10) Sweet and Low, VI, 122.
     (11) The Cloud, VII, 257.

    c. Fable:
      (1) The Wind and the Sun, Volume I, page 95.

  VIII. Geographical in Nature:
      (1) At the Seaside, Volume I, page 129.
      (2) From a Railway Carriage, I, 198.
      (3) Stop, Stop, Pretty Water, I, 317.
      (4) Song of the Brook, IV, 60.
      (5) A Descent into the Maelstrom, VIII, 95.
      (6) Ascent of the Jungfrau, IX, 1.

II

Aid in answering the second problem may be found in the following paragraph:

A series of interesting studies may be founded on the use which authors make of nature by way
of direct and indirect allusion in their works. Such lessons are the opposite of those we have
been considering. Now, the literary selection is taken first, read carefully and the allusions
noted and classified. It will be noticed that it is not necessary that selections used for
this purpose should be new to the pupils. In fact, genuine literature has the merit of being
always new, always interesting. No better service can be rendered to a child than to create
in him a love for the fine things in literature. Continued, monotonous study of a masterpiece
may breed dislike of it, especially if the exercises are dull and formal. But to approach an
old favorite from a new direction, to look at it from a new point of view, is to lend it added
charms.

A. To illustrate our method, we will use The King of the Golden River (Volume II, page 405).

1. Assignment. The leader assigns the work as follows: "I wish you to read the first section
of The King of the Golden River and write in the order of their occurrence, every mention of
a living thing or natural object and every allusion to them. Use the words of the story when
possible, but be brief. After each put a number, to show the page of the story. Let us see
who can find the greatest number and who can make the best paper."

2. Preparation. If the children work well their lists will be something like this:

  a. The valley in the mountains. Page 405.
    (1) Snow-covered peaks; cataracts; a crag; river; circular hollows.
    (2) Heavy crops; high hay; red apples; blue grapes; rich wine; sweet
        honey.
    (3) Blackbirds; hedgehogs; crickets; cicadas.
    (4) Corn.

  b. The wet summer. Page 407.
    (1) Hay; vines; corn.

  c. A nice piece of mutton. Page 408.

  d. Must be the wind. Page 408.

  e. A black feather some three feet long. Page 409.

  f. Like a beaten puppy's tail. Page 410.

  g. Like a mill stream. Page 410.

  h. Licking its chops. Page 410.

  i. A gust of wind that made the old chimneys totter. Page 411.

  j. Quicksilver-like streams. Page 411.

  k. Like a straw in the high wind. Page 413.

  l. A wreath of ragged cloud, that whirled and rolled away down the
     valley. Page 415.

  m. A gush of rain. Page 415.

  n. Howling wind and rushing rain without intermission. Page 415.

  o. The room was full of water. Page 416.

  p. A misty moonbeam. Page 416.

  r. Like a cork. Page 416.

  s. The inundation. Pages 416-417.
    (1) Trees; crops; cattle swept away.
    (2) Red sand and gray mud left in their stead.
    (3) Corn swept away.
    (4) Breezy letters.
    (5) Southwest Wind, Esquire.

3. Recitation. The leader's part in the recitation is to help the children to classify the
things mentioned, to bring out the meaning of the figures of speech, and to see that the allusions
are understood.

In writing this fine chapter, Ruskin has mentioned or alluded to the following:

  a. Land and water forms: Mountains; valley; snow; peaks; cataracts;
     river; circular hollow; mill stream; cloud; rain; globe of foam.

  b. Animals: Sheep (mutton); bird (feathers); puppy; dog (licking its
     chops); wolf (howling wind); cattle.

  c. Plant life: Crops; hay; apples; grapes; corn; vines; straw; cork;
     trees.

  d. Natural phenomena: A wet summer wind blowing; gushing rain;
     whirling clouds; misty moonbeam; floating foam; sweeping
     inundation; breezes (breezy letters).

  e. Rock material: Quicksilver; red sand; gray mud.

  f. Natural products: Crops; apples; hay; grapes; wine; honey; corn;
     mutton; cork; cattle.

  g. Figures of speech: (In studying figures of speech, make three
     points in each, viz.: First, the basis of the figure; second,
     the translation of the figure into literal English; third, the
     force and beauty of the figure and its effect on the meaning of the
     sentence. With older children the names of the figures may be
     given. Illustrations of these directions will follow.)

     (1) Like a beaten puppy's tail. (A beaten puppy drops his tail and
         drags it weakly behind him. The feather drooped down behind him
         and dragged limply along. The figure gives a vivid picture of the
         wet feather, limp and unhandsome. The figure is a comparison in
         the form of a simile.)

     (2) Like a mill stream. (Rushing, roaring, fast and furious.)

     (3) Licking its chops. (First, a dog runs out his tongue and
         licks his lips and the outside of his face [cheeks--chops] when he
         sees food brought to him. A red flame twists and waves around like
         the tongue of a dog. We speak of "tongues of flame" and "hungry
         flames devouring." Second, long streams of flame waved around
         and curled about the wood as they burned it. Third, how much
         more vivid is the picture we see of the beautiful fire. The words
         "rustling" and "roaring" help to strengthen the figure. This is a
         fine comparison, but as it is not directly expressed by the use of
         the words "like" or "as" we call it a metaphor.)

     (4) Quicksilver-like streams. (Bright, shining, smoothly running,
         with metallic luster.)

     (5) Like a straw in the high wind. (Rapid, uncertain, irregular
         motion.)

     (6) A wreath of ragged cloud. (Notice the metaphor in wreath--also
         in ragged.)

     (7) Howling wind. (A wolf howls. The figure which raises an inanimate
         object to the level of animate beings, or raises an animate being
         [a dog, for instance] to the level of a human being, is called
         personification.)

     (8) Like a cork.

     (9) Swept away.

    (10) Breezy letters. (The words swept and breezy are
         somewhat metaphorical, though their frequent use in this manner
         makes the meaning almost literal.)

    (11) Southwest Wind, Esquire. (Personification.)

B. A second lesson may confine itself more closely to the figures of speech. Naturally this
study of figures belongs with language and literature, but the point we wish to make is one
of correlation. There is a literary side to nature study, and a natural history side to literature.
Many of the greatest authors have been ardent lovers of nature, and have drawn liberally on
their knowledge of nature in beautifying what they have written. Many a reader, from lack of
knowledge or from careless habits, passes over the most delightful things, as blind and deaf
as he who sees no beauty in the wild flowers and hears no melody in the songs of birds.

For the second lesson of this character we will take the second and third chapters of The King
of the Golden River, hoping to find an abundance of figures based on nature in some of its
forms. We may not find many. Some writers use few. We suspect that Ruskin used them freely;
as a matter of fact he was one of the greatest lovers of nature, a man who labored hard to
bring art and nature together and to find a place for them in the lives of all.

We find in the second chapter the following nature figures:

  a. Southwest Wind, Esquire, page 418.
  b. His relations, the West Winds, page 418.
  c. It looks more like silk, page 419.
  d. The hot breath of the furnace, page 420.
  e. Bright tongues of fiery cloud burning and quivering about them,
     page 420.
  f. A clear metallic voice, page 420.
  g. Like that of a kettle on the boil, page 421.
  h. As smooth and polished as a river, page 421.
  i. The prismatic colors gleamed over it, as if on a surface of
     mother-of-pearl, page 422.
  j. In order to allow time for the consternation ... to evaporate, page
     424.

In the third chapter are the following:

  a. Knotty question, page 426.
  b. Like a line of forked lightning, page 427.
  (This whole paragraph is a wonderfully beautiful description.)
  c. Rose like slow smoke, page 427.
  d. In feeble wreaths, page 428.
  e. Shrieks resembling those of human voices in distress or pain, page
     428.
  f. None like the ordinary forms of splintered ice, page 428.
  g. Deceitful shadows, page 428.
  h. Lurid lights played, page 428.
  i. Ice yawned into fresh chasms, page 428.
  j. Fell thundering across his path, page 429.
  k. Rays beat intensely, page 429.
  l. Its lips parched and burning, page 430.
  m. Long snake-like shadows, page 430.
  n. The leaden weight of the dead air pressed upon his brow and
     heart, page 430.
  o. Shaped like a sword, page 431.
  p. Like a red-hot ball, page 431.
  q. They shook their crests like tongues of fire, page 432.
  r. Flashes of bloody light gleamed along their foam, page 432.
  s. An icy chill shot through his limbs, page 432.
  t. The moaning of the river, page 432.
  u. The Black Stone, page 432.

CHAPTER XVI

JOURNEYS THROUGH BOOKLAND IN ITS RELATION TO THE SCHOOL--(Continued)

Geography and History

The connection between geography and history on the one hand and literature on the other is
most intimate. In the first place nearly all our knowledge of history must come through reading,
and while we learn our geography most accurately through travel and observation, but a small
part of our information comes through those channels. We read incessantly of our own country
and others, we fill our minds with visions of plants, animals and the peoples of foreign lands
from the facts we gather from the papers, magazines and books. If most of our facts come through
reading it is no less true that most of our real interest in geography and history comes not
from the facts of our text-books but from the literature we have read, the literature that
clothed those facts and made them real and living. Ask yourselves what gave you your first
real interest in the history of Scotland and see if your answer is not, "The novels of Scott."
Again, where did you get your first adequate ideas of chivalry and the feudal system if it
was not from Ivanhoe or some similar piece of literature? What makes the Crimean War a household
word in the homes of two continents if it is not the deeds of Florence Nightingale and Tennyson's
Charge of the Light Brigade? Who can tell most of the Battle of Waterloo, he who has read the
facts of history or he who has read Byron's thrilling poem and the description by Victor Hugo?
Who knows the English home as it was? He who reads Goldsmith's Deserted Village.

It is in furnishing those literary masterpieces that give life to geography and inspiration
to history that Journeys Through Bookland gives the best of assistance to boys and girls in
their school work. Some of its selections will give facts and many of them, but the facts form
the smaller part of the contribution. History is valuable only as it enables us to understand
the present, thrills us with the accomplishments of the past and teaches us how to live and
act in the future. No man is so wrapped up in business that he does not heed the charm of noble
deeds and fails to be moved by glorious achievement. Some histories are literature in themselves
and have the inspiring quality we crave, but most of them are too dry and scientific to afford
much interest to the child. So the greater part of our selections are not from the books that
are called real history but from those which appeal to the imagination and stir the soul. Geographical
teaching is likewise indirect in Journeys but it is none the less helpful and inspiring. To
prove the truth of these statements we have only to present what the books contain and show
how the selections may be used.

It does not seem wise to separate the two subjects too widely, for they are closely related
and intimately interwoven in almost all reading. There are, it is true, some masterpieces that
may be considered purely geographical and others that are as entirely historical, but these
will be easily identified. Yet for ease and readiness in locating them we append a list of
nearly one hundred selections and classify them in a simple manner:

  1. Largely geographical.
    a. Juvenile poems with geographical allusions, or based on
           geographical facts:
       (1) The Suns Travels, Volume I, page 68.
       (2) Singing, I, 83.
       (3) Foreign Lands, I, 130.
       (4) At the Seaside, I, 129.
       (5) Old Gaelic Lullaby, I, 203.
       (6) Where Go the Boats? I, 256.
       (7) Foreign Children, I, 351.
       (8) Keepsake Mill, I, 349.
       (9) Windy Nights, II, 123.
      (10) Picture Books in Winter, II, 87.
      (11) The Child's World, II, 66.

    b. Stories and poems that describe places or people in Europe
           and some of their customs and modes of life:
       (1) The Tree, Volume I, page 301.
       (2) The Snow Maiden, I, 257.
       (3) The Snow Queen, II, 124.
       (4) The Skeleton in Armor, V, 327.
       (5) Rab and His Friends, VI, 99.
       (6) The Governor and the Notary, VII, 20.
       (7) Don Quixote, VII, 431.
       (8) The Alhambra, VIII, 153.
       (9) Ascent of the Jungfrau, IX, 1.
      (10) The Cotters Saturday Night, VIII, 319.

    c. Fanciful legends with geographical interests:
       (1) Why the Sea Is Salt, Volume II, page 484.
       (2) Origin of the Opal, II, 480.

    d. A Story from Japan.
       (1) The Mirror of Matsuyana, Volume II, page 36.

    e. A story of longitude:
       (1) Three Sundays in a Week, Volume VI, page 453.

    f. Plants or plant life:
       (1) The Potato, Volume II, page 467.
       (2) Trees and Ants That Help Each Other, VII, 306.
       (3) A Bed of Nettles, VIII, 209.

    g. Animal life:
       (1) Salmon Fishing, VII, 285.
       (2) Winter Animals, VII, 293.
       (3) Trees and Ants That Help Each Other, VII, 306.
       (4) Owls, IX, 229.
       (5) Elephant Hunting, VI, 385.
       (6) Some Clever Monkeys, VI, 402,
       (7) The Buffalo, VII, 96.
       (8) A Gorilla Hunt, VII, 247.
       (9) Brute Neighbors, VII, 260.
      (10) The Pond in Winter, VII, 280.

    h. Natural phenomena:
       (1) The Cloud, Volume VII, page 257.

  2. Indians and their habits. The selections are either historical or
     geographical or both.
    a. The Arickara Indians. (A description of the habits
         and customs of one of the western tribes.) Volume IV, page
         472.

    b. Reminiscences of a Pioneer. (This contains a few
         interesting anecdotes of Indians and many incidents of pioneer
         life.) Volume V, page 340.

    c. Black Hawk Tragedy. (A very interesting biographical
         and historical sketch.) Volume VII, page 58.

    d. An Exciting Canoe Race. (A story of the New York Indians
         at an early day.) Volume VII, page 79.

    e. David Crockett in the Creek War. (An interesting account
         of southern Indians and their wars.) Volume VIII, page 37.

  3. Biography. The selections in this group consist of anecdotal
     sketches, brief biographies, extracts from longer works, and a few
     poems.

    a. Authors of the United States and of foreign countries:
       (1) Robert Louis Stevenson, Volume I, page 128.
       (2) Eugene Field, I, 242.
       (3) Hans Christian Andersen, II, 81.
       (4) Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, IV, 62.
       (5) Alice and Phoebe Cary, IV, 116.
       (6) Nathaniel Hawthorne, IV, 180.
       (7) Sir Walter Scott, VI, 26.
       (8) John Greenleaf Whittier, VII, 381.
       (9) William Cullen Bryant, VII, 391.
      (10) Oliver Wendell Holmes, VII, 398.
      (11) James Russell Lowell, VII, 411.
      (12) Washington Irving, VIII, 216.
      (13) Charles and Mary Lamb, VIII, 328.

    b. Biblical Characters:
       (1) The Story of Joseph, Volume I, page 456.
       (2) The Story of Esther, II, 448.
       (3) David, IV, 274.
       (4) Ruth, VI, 143.

    c. The author of many fables:
       (1) Aesop, Volume II, page 1.

    d. English history:
       (1) Alfred the Great, Volume IV, 260.
       (2) Queen Victoria, VII, 152.
       (3) Florence Nightingale, IX, 13.

    e. American history:
       (1) George Rogers Clark, Volume VI, page 422.
       (2) David Crockett in the Creek War, VIII, 37.
       (3) Père Marquette, VIII, 121.
       (4) Abraham Lincoln, IX, 324.

    f. Roman history:
       (1) Julius Cæsar, Volume IX, page 126.

  4. Myths from several sources:
    a. Grecian and Roman:
       (1) Atalanta's Race, Volume I, page 386.
       (2) Baucis and Philemon, I, 431.
       (3) The Golden Touch, II, 43.
       (4) The Chimera, II, 173.
       (5) The Story of Phaethon, II, 206.
       (6) The Queen of the Underworld, II, 468.
       (7) Cupid and Psyche, III, 365.

    b. Northern Europe:
       (1) How the Wolf was Bound, II, 91.
       (2) The Death of Balder, II, 99.
       (3) The Punishment of Loki, II, 111.
       (4) Beowulf and Grendel, III, 350.

    c. Miscellaneous:
       (1) Stories of the Creation, Volume IV, page 159.

  5. Legendary heroes. The following selections give vivid ideas of the
     great national heroes whose reputed deeds have been an inspiration
     to hosts of children in many lands:

    a. Scandinavian:
       (1) Frithiof the Bold, Volume III, page 394.

    b. German:
       (1) The Story of Siegfried, Volume III, page 410.

    c. English:
       (1) Robin Hood, Volume III, page 436.
       (2) King Arthur, V, 113.
       (3) Balin and Balan, V, 130.
       (4) Geraint and Enid, V, 148.
       (5) The Holy Grail, V, 207.
       (6) Dissensions at King Arthur's Court, V, 232.
       (7) The Passing of Arthur, V, 237.

    d. French:
       (1) Roland at Roncesvalles, Volume III, page 460.

    e. Spanish:
       (1) The Cid, Volume IV, page 9.

    f. Greek:
       (1) The Death of Hector, Volume IV, page 364.
       (2) Ulysses, IV, 398.

    g. Roman:
       (1) Horatius, Volume VI, page 1.

  6. Historical tales, poems, and selections of different kinds and
     varying degrees of difficulty:

    a. Northern Europe:
       (1) Holger Danske, Volume II, page 377.
       (2) Make Way for Liberty, VII, 172.
       (3) Marco Bozzaris, VIII, 90.

    b. France and Napoleon:
       (1) Incident of the French Camp, Volume IV, page 174.
       (2) Battle of Ivry, VIII, 76.
       (3) Hervé Riel, VIII, 168.
       (4) The Battle of Waterloo, VIII, 176.
       (5) The Battle of Cressy, IX, 161.

    c. Classic lands:
       (1) The Wooden Horse, Volume IV, page 383.
       (2) The Battle of Thermopylae, VIII, 81.
       (3) The Death of Caesar, IX, 126.
       (4) The Death of Caesar, IX, 143.
       (5) Julius Caesar, IX, 155.

    d. British Isles:
       (1) Chevy Chase, Volume IV, page 312.
       (2) The Ballad of Agincourt, V, 95.
       (3) Some Children's Books of the Past, V, 101.
       (4) The Rise of Robert Bruce, V, 278.
       (5) Bruce and the Spider, V, 314.
       (6) The Heart of Bruce, V, 316.
       (7) The Tournament, VI, 38.
       (8) Bannockburn, VII, 15.
       (9) The Charge of the Light Brigade, VII, 147.
      (10) The Recessional, VII, 164.
      (11) The Battle of Trafalgar, VIII, 284.
      (12) Casabianca, VIII, 313.
      (13) The Impeachment of Warren Hastings, IX, 32.
      (14) The Battle of Cressy, IX, 161.
      (15) The Battle of Hastings, IX, 330.

    e. United States:
       (1) The Pine Tree Shillings, Volume IV, page 192.
       (2) The Sunken Treasure, IV, 199.
       (3) The Hutchinson Mob, IV, 208.
       (4) The Boston Massacre, IV, 217.
       (5) The Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers in New England, IV, 197.
       (6) Sheridan's Ride, IV, 223.
       (7) Henry Hudson's Fourth Voyage, V, 254.
       (8) Reminiscences of a Pioneer, V, 340.
       (9) Braddock's Defeat, V, 379.
      (10) The American Flag, V, 396.
      (11) Stonewall Jackson's Way, V, 400.
      (12) The Capture of Vincennes, VI, 428.
      (13) The Old Continentals, VII, 175.
      (14) America, VIII, 60.
      (15) The Fall of the Alamo, VIII, 141.
      (16) The Knickerbocker History of New York, VIII, 224.
      (17) The Battle of Saratoga, IX, 176.
      (18) The Gettysburg Address, IX, 321.

    f. America, outside of the United States:
       (1) The Buccaneers, Volume V, page 359.
       (2) Captain Morgan at Maracaibo, V, 365.
       (3) Ringrose and His Buccaneers, VIII, 1.
       (4) The Retreat of Cortez, VIII, 63.

The object of teaching geography and history is not solely that children may acquire a collection
of facts. Too often the lessons in these branches consist merely in memorizing text books,
in learning long descriptions, in the study of meaningless maps and in the listing of political
and military events in chronological order. The value of such work is comparatively small,
and the studies cannot be considered profitable. If, however, children are taught to know and
understand people, their habits and modes of life; if they learn geographical facts in their
relation to humanity, to study events in the relation of cause to effect, to seek for truth
and the meaning of things, then nothing is more productive of good than the teaching of geography
and history.

If we accept as true the foregoing statements, then methods of teaching the subjects become
clear as we think of them. It is evident that early lessons should be designed to create interest:

(1) In the world of things immediately around us; in the land and what grows and lives upon
it; in the water, its relation to the land, its motions, and the life that it contains; in
the air, its phenomena and its denizens; in human beings, their feelings and all their activities.

(2) In the great earth as a whole and its parts; in foreign animals and plants; in humanity
in other lands.

It appears that so broad an outline as the one just given can never be filled in, that the
study of geography and history, the study of the world and its peoples, can never be completed.
If such is the case, it follows that the teacher who creates the most vital interest in the
subject, who leaves with her pupils the most ardent desire to study and know, has been of greatest
service to them.

Now, the great interests of life have their inception in early years when the mind is active,
curiosity strong, and instruction accepted without question. Then should be created that abiding
interest which will make good students of geography and history, good citizens, good men and
women. If too many formal lessons are given them, and pupils are set to work at dreary tasks
and are asked to memorize dry facts, it is probable that they will never become good students.
How, then, shall an abiding interest be created?

The entrance to the field of geography is through nature study, which is discussed elsewhere
under that title. For the first two years of a child's school life he will hear nothing of
geography, and even in the third year there will be little formal reference to it, but all
the time he is quietly mastering facts and developing interests that are geographical in their
character.

When systematic lessons begin, there should be presented only real facts and genuine things,
that bear some close and direct relation to ourselves and that should be matters of personal
observation, as far as possible. Day and night in summer and winter, the seasons, the weather,
wind, rain, snow, sleet, foods, clothing, the occupations of the neighborhood, the brooks and
bodies of water about the school, hills, valleys, plains, plants and animals of the locality,
each in turn serves its purpose. We cannot here show how these various subjects should be treated,
but to illustrate the use of literature in elementary geography lessons we will present an
outline on a single subject. New possibilities will be seen in every direction if frequent
use of the list given above is made in finding suitable selections.

If we choose the wind as the subject of our model lesson, we may be sure to cover several recitations
that will lead us into reading, nature study and language (oral and written). It is a subject
that encourages wide correlation. The outline might be the following:

  1. Purpose of the Lesson. To teach the following facts:
    a. That air occupies space.

    b. That wind is air in motion and has force.

    c. The directions and names of winds.

    d. The uses of winds.

  2. Experiments and Observation.
    a. Take an empty bottle and thrust it squarely, mouth down, into
         water. Does the water rise in the bottle? (Only a little way.)
         Why? (It can't get in. There is air in the bottle.)

    b. Raise the bottle slowly and tip it slightly so that a part of
         the mouth is above the water, then push it horizontally into
         the water. Does the water go into the bottle now? (Yes.) Why?
         (Because there is no air there to keep it out.) How do you
         know? (I saw the air coming out in bubbles.) Why didn't the air
         come out when we pushed the bottle down the first time? (The
         water was too heavy; it held the air in.)

    c. Hold your hand close in front of your mouth and blow. Can you
         feel anything? (Yes; the air strikes my hand.) When you are out
         in the wind can you feel it? (Yes; it pushes against me.) Can
         it push hard? (Yes; sometimes it pushes over trees and houses.)
         What is the wind? (It is air moving.)

    d. Is the wind blowing today? Did it blow yesterday? From what
         direction is it (was it) blowing? How do you know? (I saw trees
         bending away from it. I felt it pushing from that side. It came
         in at that window. The vane on the church steeple pointed that
         way.)

    e. When a wind comes from the South, what do we call it? (South
         wind.) When a wind blows from the North what do we call it?
         (North wind.) What wind brings cold weather? (North.) What wind
         brings warm weather? (South.) What wind brings long spells of
         rainy weather? (East.) What wind brings showers and
         thunderstorms? (South and West.) What winds prevail in summer?
         (South and West.) What winds prevail in winter? (North.)

    f. What work have you seen the wind do? (Turn windmills; sail
         boats.) Have you seen it do any work for us here? (Yes; it
         drives the clouds that bring us rain. It drives away stormy
         clouds.) Can't you think of something else? (It scatters seeds
         of plants. It shakes nuts from trees. It helps melt snow and
         ice. It keeps the air clean and pure.)

  3. Literature.
    a. As an introduction to the lesson or in preparation, give the
         first two stanzas of that beautiful poem by W. B. Rands, The
         Child's World (Volume II, page 66).

    b. In considering the strength of the wind, there is a fine
         opportunity to introduce the fable The Wind and the Sun
         (Volume I, page 95).

    c. Robert Louis Stevenson's verses, Windy Nights (Volume II,
         page 123), are entertaining and give an opportunity for nice
         explanation.

    d. In the same light as the preceding selection may be regarded
         the imaginative verses by the same author, The Wind (Volume
         I, page 440).

    e. In The King of the Golden River (Volume II) is a humorous
         personification of the southwest wind. It is strikingly true of
         the nature of that wind. The description begins on page 408,
         and a second appearance of the wind is chronicled on page 415.

    f. Finest of all the selections for this topic is Tennyson's
         exquisite lullaby, Sweet and Low (Volume VI, page 122). This
         is well worth memorizing.

If we wish a model for a history lesson, the following will answer:

One of the interesting characters in history is King Alfred of England, and in the sketch of
him (Volume IV, page 260) are facts enough for several elementary lessons in history. The outline
for teaching might be as follows:

  1. Preparation.
    a. Read the article above referred to, and such other material
         concerning Alfred as can be found.

    b. Select two incidents for story telling and prepare them for
         recital. (See articles on Story Telling in this Volume.)

  2. Presentation.
    a. Tell the first story (page 260). It might be given in this
         form:

"More than a thousand years ago, Alfred, the youngest of the four sons of the king, was born.
He was a fine lad and the favorite of his parents, but when he was twelve years of age he had
not yet learned to read. This is not so strange, when we stop to think that it was long before
people knew anything about printing, and every letter in every book had to be slowly made with
a pen.

"This made books very expensive and rare, so that only a few people could own even one. Still,
you have no idea how beautiful some of those books were. They were written on thin, fine-grained
leather called parchment, and were beautifully decorated in colors. The capital letters which
began paragraphs, and sometimes all the capital letters, were made large, in fanciful shapes,
and all around them were painted flowers, birds, human beings, or pretty designs, so that each
letter was a beautiful picture in itself. Then in the margins, above the titles, at every place
where there was no writing were still other delicate designs. Some of those wonderful old books
are still in existence, and people go long distances to see them. They are more valuable now
than ever, and most of them are safely guarded in museums.

"One day Alfred's mother was reading to her children, from one of those beautiful books, some
fine poems which the Saxons had written. The boys all became very much interested in the rich
little paintings that decorated it. The mother pointed out its beauties and told the boys how
carefully the artists had worked and how long it had taken them to do it.

"'Did you ever see its equal?' she asked.

"'No,' replied the oldest boy, 'I have not seen anything like it. I wish I had one like it.'

"'Boys,' said the mother, 'this is one of the greatest treasures I have, and I would not like
to part with it. Yet I love my boys better than the book, and I want them to learn to read.
So this is what I will gladly do: I will give this book to the first of you who comes to me
and shows that he can read it understandingly.'

"'It is my book, for I can read some already,' said the oldest.

"'But I can work harder than you, and I will learn faster,' said the second.

"'I learn more easily than any of you,' the third boy added. 'I feel sure I shall win the book.'

"Alfred said nothing, but as soon as his mother had ceased to read he hurried away, found a
wise man to teach him and began immediately to work with great diligence. It was not long before
he began to read for himself, and before his brothers had made much progress Alfred went to
his mother.

"'I think I can read the book,' he said.

"'I do not think you have had time to learn. You are hurrying too much. You should study more,'
his mother replied.

"'But, mother, please let me try,' pleaded Alfred.

"The mother yielded and Alfred brought the big book to her and laid it on her knee. Then he
opened it at the beginning and with very few mistakes read poem after poem. His mother was
more than satisfied, and when Alfred left the room he was hugging the elegant book and carrying
it to his part of the castle.

"This was only the beginning, for Alfred became the greatest scholar and the wisest king the
Saxons ever had. He made just laws, he ruled kindly, he founded schools, and he tried in every
way to make his subjects better, wiser and happier. Do you not think it all began in his love
for the beautiful look?"

3. Recitation.

Ask questions and make the children see in the story:

  a. (The Introduction.) The first general facts about Alfred.

  b. (The Body of the Narrative.) The story of how Alfred learned
       to read.

  c. (The Conclusion.) Alfred wins the prize and becomes a great ruler.

Then ask them to tell the story in their own words.

Finally ask them to write the story for a composition.

4. Additional Information. Find out what other things about Alfred are already known to the
class. Then tell the story of Alfred and the cakes (page 261); of his battles with the Danes
under Guthrum (page 262); of his war with the Danes under Hastings (page 263); of his work
for his people (page 264); and of his plans and inventions (page 265).

5. Supplementary Readings. If the lessons on Alfred have been well conducted, interest will
have been created in a variety of subjects relating to early English history. The Saxons, their
mode of life, armor, weapons, manner of warfare, laws and customs; the Danes and their characteristics;
the rulers who followed Alfred; the formation of the English nation, are topics that readily
suggest themselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

More or less closely connected with these lines of thought are the following selections in
Journeys Through Bookland. Interest may be deflected in any direction. If the selections are
too hard for the class to read, tell the stories in simplified form:

   1. The Legends of King Arthur (Volume V, beginning on page 113).

   2. The Attack on the Castle (Volume IV, page 322).

   3. The Battle of Hastings (Volume IX, page 330).

   4. Beowulf and Grendel (Volume III, page 350).

   5. Chevy Chase (Volume IV, page 312).

   6. Frithiof the Bold (Volume III, page 394).

   7. The myths of the Northland, viz.: How the Wolf Was Bound (Volume
      II, page 91); The Death of Balder (Volume II, page 99); The
      Punishment of Loki (Volume II, page 111); and part of Stories of
      the Creation (Volume IV, page 159).

   8. A Norse Lullaby (Volume I, page 246).

   9. The Tournament (Volume VI, page 38).

  10. The Skeleton in Armor (Volume V, page 327).

It will be noticed that while this outline is given for use with young children, it easily
may be adapted to the use of older ones and may lead into a wide course in historical reading.

The textbook in history is necessarily brief and really little more than an outline of events.
In many instances the book gives too much space to battles, sieges and military movements and
too little to the conditions of life, to manners, customs and causes and effects of events.
Yet the textbook is a valuable guide and enables anyone to present the subject logically and
to systematize what is learned, if nothing more.

What a wide range of subjects is covered in the study of history! What abundance of material
for study is required! Dates must be learned and events arranged chronologically; maps must
be studied, fixed in mind and made of real value by a comprehension of the things they are
supposed to represent; military events must be understood in relation to the causes that lead
to them and the results that follow. Some few battles or campaigns must be made vivid enough
to give an idea of the expense, the labor, the suffering and the horrors involved in war; government,
educational and religious institutions, religious and social customs and financial methods
must be studied; industries and amusements, the lives of the people, food and food supplies,
the production of clothing and building material must be examined; in fact, each one of the
multiform interests of humanity may be a fair topic for study at some time in the history class.

Methods of instruction must be as varied as the subject-matter. Sometimes drill is necessary
to fix facts; again it is necessary to encourage the observation and study of persons, things
and events about us; a third time, wide research and extensive reading are demanded; again,
the feelings must be aroused, sentiment and enthusiasm encouraged, patriotism taught.

There is material for many of these exercises in Journeys Through Bookland.

As a type of study for the military campaign, we might take Burgoyne's campaign in the Revolution.
From the textbook we may learn certain facts and encourage the pupils to group them as follows:

  Burgoyne's Campaign.

  1. Conditions prior thereto:
    a. The British occupied only New York and Newport.

    b. They understood the natural highway that existed along Lake
         Champlain and the Hudson River from the Saint Lawrence River to
         New York.

    c. They resolved to establish a line of military posts along this
         highway.

  2. Plan of Campaign:
    a. General Burgoyne was sent to Canada with 4,000 British regulars
         and 3,000 Hessians.

    b. Canadians and Indians to the number of 1,000 joined the troops
         under Burgoyne.

    c. St. Leger was sent to Oswego to descend the Mohawk, capture
         Fort Stanwix and join Burgoyne.

    d. Burgoyne was to go through Richelieu River and Lake Champlain
         by boats; thence march to New York by land.

  3. American Troops in Opposition:
    a. General St. Clair with 3,000 men at Ticonderoga.

    b. General Schuyler with about 3,000 men on the Hudson.

  4. Burgoyne's Advance:
    a. The trip to Ticonderoga made and the Americans dislodged from
         the fort.

    b. The skirmish at Hubbardton was successful, but the Americans
         were not captured, and the delay to Burgoyne enabled St. Clair
         to join Schuyler.

    c. The march to the Hudson was full of difficulties and
         discouragements:
       (1) Obstructed roads; destroyed bridges.
       (2) Inadequate supplies.
       (3) Deserting Indians.
       (4) Leaving a third of his troops at Ticonderoga.

    d. The Expedition against Bennington:
       (1) Colonel Baum sent to take supplies from the Americans there.
       (2) Met General Stark with a force outnumbering him two or three
           to one.
       (3) Rain delayed battle, and British entrenched.
       (4) Baum surrounded; his force captured or killed, including a
           relief party under Riedesel.

    e. St. Leger's Campaign.
       (1) Unsuccessful battle at Oriskany.
       (2) St. Leger retreated and disappeared from the region after a
           flight induced by a ruse invented by Benedict Arnold.

  5. Burgoyne's Surrender.
    a. He attempted to cut his way through the lines of the American
         troops which surrounded him.

    b. Crossed the Hudson and met the Americans at Bemis Heights;
         defeated.

    c. Defeated at Freeman's Farm.

    d. Surrendered October 17, 1777.

  6. Effects of the Surrender.
    a. Gave the Americans many arms and munitions of war.

    b. Gave the Americans greater confidence in themselves and their
         cause.

    c. Caused great discouragement to the British, both at home and in
         the colonies.

    d. Established the prestige of the American cause in Europe.

    e. Secured the assistance of France.

    f. Probably was the most influential single campaign in the war
         and largely instrumental in enabling the colonists to win.

The preceding outline is the framework for the study of one military campaign. In a school
it would be the basis for topical recitations, but in itself it has neither interest nor vitality.
The main points should be memorized so that facts learned subsequently may be logically arranged.
When the general outline is mastered, teachers and pupils begin to fill in details from all
available sources and create in the minds of the pupils vivid pictures of the scenes, a thorough
understanding of the course of events, and a lively realization of the effect of this remarkable
episode of a great war. At home it may be used in a similar manner.

To further assist in this instance and to furnish a type or model for succeeding studies, we
will traverse the outline again, showing what may be done with it and how literature may lend
its aid to the study of history. In Journeys Through Bookland we have a long extract from The
Battle of Saratoga by Creasy (Volume IX, page 176). This will be the source of much of our
information, and there are explanatory footnotes of considerable value. We reproduce here only
the indices of the original outline:

1. a, b and c. A good outline map of the colonies is necessary. It must show the location of
bodies of water, natural thoroughfares, cities and forts. The map should be made for the purpose
and contain no details beyond those necessary for an understanding of this campaign. A second
map showing a strip of country from the Saint Lawrence to New York and wide enough to include
all the operations of the armies should contain more detail and be used frequently as the study
proceeds. It may be well for each child to draw this region in outline and fill in the details
as his study proceeds. Read page 177, Volume IX.

2. a, b, c and d. Read pages 180-182, Volume IX.

3. a and b. Pages 182-183, Volume IX.

4. a and b. Pages 181-182, Volume IX. The quotation from Burke, Volume IX, pages 183 and 184,
and the following paragraph are interesting accounts of the feeling in England and America
over the apparent successes of Burgoyne.

c. The causes of the increased efficiency of the Americans and the bitterness with which the
British were regarded by the colonists is explained on pages 184 and 185 of Volume IX.

Something of the nature of the Indian allies may be gained from the story, An Exciting Canoe
Race (Volume VII, page 79).

A stirring poem, to be read in this connection, is The Old Continentals (Volume VII, page 175).

5. a, b, c and d. The final days of the campaign and the surrender are described on pages 193-200,
Volume IX. In using this, bring out the following points not made in the original outline:

The near approach of Clinton and the message from him. What must Burgoyne have felt when he
received the message! Put human interest into the tale.

The character of Burgoyne, Gates and Arnold, as shown by their acts.

The Germans (Hessians) in the campaign.

The burial of General Frazer.

The condition of the British troops when they surrendered.

The terms of surrender.

Gates's message to Congress.

6. a, b, c, d and e. See, in this connection, pages 198 and 199 of Volume IX.

The Soldier's Dream (Volume VII, page 170) is a good poem to read for the purpose of exciting
sympathy for the soldiers.

The Picket Guard (Volume VII, page 177) is useful in a similar way, though written in connection
with another war.

The American Flag (Volume V, page 396) may be used here. Did the American soldiers carry the
flag of the United States at the time of the battle of Saratoga? If not, what flag was borne?
Did the "United Colonies" have a flag?

By consulting the tabulated list of selections useful in history classes you may find other
things of interest. Care should be taken, however, not to cloud the main purpose of the lessons
by the introduction of too much literary matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before leaving the subject of history and geography we urge upon those who wish to work with
children, a careful perusal of the sections entitled Close Reading in this volume.

CHAPTER XVII

JOURNEYS THROUGH BOOKLAND IN ITS RELATION TO THE HIGH SCHOOL

Introduction

All high school students are expected to be well grounded in good literature. It is part of
every well planned course of study and the basis of much of the work in every year. Yet very
few high schools are able to furnish the material for every student to read, and often the
methods of instruction are inadequate to the large classes or fail in character and execution.
There is contained in Journeys practically all the real literature that is necessary for the
foundation of a broad culture, and though much of it is simple and elementary, it is no less
interesting and valuable. As a matter of fact, few high school students have ever read the
simpler classics in a manner that brought to them the full message of the selections. Accordingly
the most elementary things are often the newest and the most valuable. The simplest of the
nursery rhymes, as may be seen by the comments and explanations given in another part of this
volume, are full of interest to high school boys and girls, and in not a few schools form the
basis of many serious lessons. The fables, the myths and the literature of the legendary heroes
are not only interesting, but are of sufficient breadth in meaning to justify hard work on
the part of anyone who has not already mastered them. It is a mistake to think that the simple
things do not interest young men and young women. The people who scorn the elementary literature
of nursery rhymes, fairy tales and fables are the immature boys of thirteen or fourteen years
to whom everything juvenile seems beneath their dignity and newly acquired independence.

The reader of Journeys will notice, however, that the quantity of matter that may be called
really juvenile is small in comparison with the grand total. As a matter of fact, the selections
of the last six volumes are worthy the reading by anyone, old or young, at any time, and to
be fully appreciated they must be read with care and discrimination by everyone. The sixth,
seventh, eighth and ninth volumes are all high-class literature for adults as well as young
children and the studies are worthy a place in any high school.

The older a person grows the more he loves the things that were a delight to his childhood
and the more keenly he realizes his loss if he never had the opportunity to become well acquainted
with the great masterpieces that have been the comfort and inspiration of such countless thousands
of people. Men and women of judgment never criticize the selections in Journeys on the ground
that they are too simple or are childish. Good literature never dies, never loses its interest.
It lives in a day-by-day intimacy with every one of its acquaintances, and the love for it
increases year by year for everyone who will listen to its teachings.

Doubtless some high school students will be glad to have pointed out to them more in detail
the things which are especially applicable to their work in school and which will help them
in the mastery of the subject so that their school work will be made easier and they may raise
their rank in the eyes of their teachers and companions.

A

Nearly all of the studies in the other volumes and all of them in this volume are of value
to high school students. If they are not difficult enough to cause work they at least suggest
ways of reading that will be valuable. In the ten volumes the studies are scattered so that
young children may not see too much of the machinery of instruction as they read. On the other
hand the high school student wants the material systematically arranged and easy of access.

Accordingly the following arrangement of the studies in this and the other volumes of Journeys
will be of assistance:

    I. Studies in Character:
       (1) Cinderella, Volume I, page 224.
       (2) The Hardy Tin Soldier, X, 158.
       (3) Rab and His Friends, X, 177.

   II. Studies in plot:
       (1) The Snow Queen, Volume II, page 124.
       (2) The Gold Bug, IX, 232.
       (3) Cinderella, X, 150.

  III. Studies in description:
       (1) The King of the Golden River, Volume II, page 405.
       (2) The Reaper's Dream, VII, 345.
       (3) The Recovery of the Hispaniola, VII, 352.

   IV. Method of analysis:
       (1) The Gettysburg Address, Volume IX, page 321.
       (2) Braddock's Defeat, X, 227. (Extensive
           studies following the drama.)
       (3) The Passing of Arthur, X, 214.

   VI. Studies in rhyme, meter and melody:
       (1) The Country Squire, Volume VI, page 474.
       (2) To My Infant Son, VI, 478.
       (3) The Daffodils, VII, 1.
       (4) The Old Oaken Bucket, VII, 11.
       (5) Bannockburn, VII, 15.
       (6) Boat Song, VII, 17.
       (7) The Bugle Song, X, 287.

  VII. Studies in interpretation, giving various methods and considering
       different phases of the subject:
       (1) Christmas in Old Time, Volume VI, page 356.
       (2) The Recessional, VII, 164.
       (3) The Cubes of Truth, VII, 406.
       (4) America, VIII, 60.
       (5) A Descent Into the Maelstrom, VIII, 95.
       (6) Dream Children, VIII, 335.
       (7) The Vision of Mirza, IX, 285.
       (8) Pippa Passes, IX, 293.
       (9) Rab and His Friends, X, 225.
      (10) The Reaper and the Flowers, X, 272.
      (11) Adventures in Lilliput, V, 8.
      (12) David Crockett in the Creek War, VIII, 37.
      (13) The Impeachment of Warren Hastings, IX, 32.
      (14) A Christmas Carol, VI, 244.

  VIII.
       (4) Hans Christian Andersen, II, 81.
       (5) Henry W. Longfellow, IV, 62.
       (6) Alice and Phoebe Gary, IV, 116.
       (7) Nathaniel Hawthorne, IV, 180.
       (8) Jonathan Swift, V, 1.
       (9) Sir Walter Scott, VI, 26.
      (10) John Howard Payne, VI, 221.
      (11) John Greenleaf Whittier, VII, 381.
      (12) William Cullen Bryant, VII, 391.
      (13) Oliver Wendell Holmes, VII, 398.
      (14) James Russell Lowell, VII, 411.
      (15) Elizabeth Barrett Browning, VII, 419.
      (16) Washington Irving, VIII, 216.
      (17) Charles and Mary Lamb, VIII, 328.
      (18) William Shakespeare, VIII, 468.

B

The assistance that literature may give in reading, language, nature study, history and geography
is set forth at length in other chapters of this volume, and the high school student is earnestly
requested to examine those chapters carefully and utilize whatever appeals to him in his studies.
Especially are the chapters on reading and language valuable. Usually the greater part of the
criticisms passed upon high school work is aimed against weaknesses in English. No small portion
of this criticism is just, and it comes to a considerable extent from the fact that theme work
is usually assigned on subjects so abstruse and so far beyond the ready appreciation of the
student that the youthful writer is more concerned in finding out what he is to write than
in thinking how he shall write. The result is a carelessness that brings errors in construction
and an entire lack of clearness and elegance in expression. Even the older pupils can learn
more from writing upon simple subjects where the material is easily obtained and is in itself
interesting than from the usual difficult and uninteresting subjects.

The close analysis of a masterpiece gives fine models of expression and furnishes the best
of material for discussion. The use of capital letters and punctuation marks, spelling and
the choice of words are all subjects for study and are all learned best from good models, such
as are found in the masterpieces of literature. Students will soon learn that the rules of
grammar are not always so hard and fast as they appear and that the practice of authors and
publishers varies in minor things, especially in the use of commas and capital letters.

Some studies of special interest that may be based upon the masterpieces in Journeys will be
given below. Many of the stories, poems and essays are accompanied by notes, queries and comments
that will assist in making the studies profitable. Several good lessons may be derived from
each topic and may be pursued at greater length by research in the volumes of reference in
the school or public library.

Look in the Index of the tenth volume for the following topics and then find in the proper
volumes the several selections named in the Index:

I. Ballads. Eight of the old English ballads and five more modern imitations are given. They
are virile poems; simple, direct narratives. The old ones show the peculiarities of the old
style English diction before poetry had been refined, while the later ones, breathing still
the fire and originality of the earlier, are more polished and show the greater skill and accomplishments
of the poets. The old ballads sprang spontaneously from the race, and doubtless many minds
contributed to their phraseology, for they were sung and recited and passed on from mouth to
mouth for generations before they were fixed in their present form.

II. Essays. In the list of essays (fourteen) are some of the most exquisite ever written and
others that are full of information and inspiration. Dream Children is a perfect prose lyric;
Some Children's Books of the Past is an extremely interesting essay of the informational class.
Besides the essays listed in the Index there are other selections in essay form that may be
studied with profit. Here are some of them:

   1. Abraham Lincoln, Volume IX, page 324.
   2. The Arickara Indians, IV, 472.
   3. The Buffalo, VII, 96.
   4. Alfred the Great, IV, 260.
   5. The Battle of Cressy, IX, 161.
   6. The Battle of Hastings, IX, 330.
   7. A Bed of Nettles, VIII, 209.
   8. Brute Neighbors, VII, 260.
   9. The Buccaneers, V, 359.
  10. Stories of the Creation, IV, 159.
  11. Trees and Ants That Help Each Other, VII, 306.

III. Fables. The names of more than thirty fables are given in the list. Comparative study
of these fables, considering the animals most frequently mentioned, the correctness and naturalness
of the traits ascribed to the different animals, the moral precepts inculcated by the fables,
etc., will be found interesting and profitable.

IV. Fairy Lore and Folk Lore. Though fairy stories may have lost their intrinsic interest for
high school students, the teacher will find in the collection given here the material for many
a study. What merits keep the old stories alive and make them perennially fascinating to children
of all nations? Which stories are the better for children, those of Hans Christian Andersen
or those of the Brothers Grimm? What are the particular merits or demerits of each class? How
do the stories by the latter writers compare in originality and beauty with the older stories?
What comparisons can be made between The Ugly Duckling and The King of the Golden River? What
merits has Cinderella over Bluebeard? What is the effect of Jack the Giant Killer and stories
of that kind on the minds of young people?

V. Fiction. Look under the subtitles for the long list of stories suitable for study when the
class is dealing with fiction.

VI. Legendary Heroes. What can be more interesting than a study of these characters from the
borderland of history? These great figures come forth from the shadows of the past and move
before us like living men: Beowulf, the Saxon; Frithiof, the Norse hero; Siegfried, the German;
Roland, the French knight; The Cid, Spain's greatest warrior and gentleman; Hector and Ulysses,
the Greeks; King Arthur and his knights from England; Horatius, the Roman, and Sohrab, the Persian.

The literature of the Arthurian legends as given in Journeys, where they cover about 150 pages,
is a cycle of great importance to every high school student. The selections concerning Arthur
form a series of narratives which, though from different sources, give a vivid picture of the
great knight and his times. The cycle is in volume V and the titles are:

  a. Arthur Made King, page 117.

  b. Arthur Weds Guenevere; The Round Table, page 119.

  c. Arthur and Pellinore, page 122.

  d. Arthur Gets Excalibur, page 127.

  e. Balin and Balan, page 130. (The stories given so far were
        written expressly for Journeys, but all have followed rather
        closely the relation of Malory.)

  f. Geraint and Enid, page 148. (This is one of the most popular of
        Tennyson's Idyls of the King. The poem is given complete.)

  g. The Holy Grail, page 207.
     (1) The Knighting of Sir Galahad, page 208.
     (2) The Marvelous Sword, page 209.
     (3) Galahad and the Siege Perilous, page 212.
     (4) Galahad draws the Sword of Balin Le Savage, page 213.
     (5) The Holy Grail Appears, page 214.
     (6) Galahad Gets His Shield, page 217.
     (7) The Grail Achieved, page 222. (The story of the search for
         the Holy Grail, which is taken from the narrative of Sir Thomas
         Malory, retains his quaint and charming style. The only
         material changes are in paragraphing and the use of quotation
         marks.)

  h. Dissensions at King Arthur's Court, page 232. (This was written
        for Journeys, to cover the interval between the achievement of
        the Grail by Sir Galahad and the death of Arthur.)

  i. The Passing of Arthur, page 237. (This is Tennyson's beautiful
        poem given in full. It describes the last days of Arthur's reign
        and the strange story of his death.)

VII. Lyrics. This topic gives the titles of about fifty beautiful lyrics.

VIII. Myths. Twelve titles showing stories from the mythology of different nations. Many of
the articles have explanatory comments and, though stories and notes are intended primarily
for young children, the whole offers a good introduction to a more extended study of mythology.

IX. Don Quixote. The five adventures related give a good idea of the nature of the book and
are sufficient for reference when the history class is studying chivalry.

X. Odes. These seven of our finest odes will please the class in literature.

XI. Poetry. Look up the sub-titles for names of poems.

XII. Wit and Humor. It is not always easy to find what is wanted for class study under this
head. The selections given are amusing, but at the same time most of them have real literary
value, as well, and are worth study.

CHAPTER XVIII

RECITATIONS AND SPECIAL DAYS IN SCHOOL

Whoever has had charge of young children who are in attendance at school has been many, many
times worried in trying to answer for them the oft-repeated request "Where shall I find a piece
to speak?" Every volume of Journeys Through Bookland has a large number of selections suitable
for this purpose. All of them may be found readily by consulting the Index at the end of the
tenth volume, when the name is known or the nature of the selection is understood, or by examining
the table of contents at the beginning of each volume when no intimation of title or subject
has been given.

It has become customary in most schools to observe with appropriate exercises certain notable
days. Thanksgiving, Christmas, Memorial Day, Flag Day, Arbor Day, and Bird Day have their own
peculiar functions and for each there is a different style of observance. Recitations, songs,
readings, stories, help to make up the programs, and upon the parent often falls most of the
burden in selecting material. In many states the Department of Education issues beautiful circulars
on some of these special days, and from them the teacher draws some of her material and forms
her program for the occasion. Yet when the one or two days for which material has been provided
have passed there come a number of others which make their demands. Besides those mentioned,
there are the birthdays of our great patriots and literary men and the general exercises at
other times for which no special provision has been made. For the busy parent, teacher or pupil,
Journeys Through Bookland provides an almost inexhaustible supply of excellent things, most
of which may be found readily through the Index. Moreover, the selections are from the best
literature for children, from that which they should know, so that the tired and harrassed
mother need not worry for fear that the children are filling their minds with useless things.

It does not seem worth while to give long lists of selections appropriate to special days,
as things are well classified in the Index in the tenth volume. Yet to show more fully how
Journeys Through Bookland may be used, the following suggestions are offered:

I. BIRD DAY. Besides many other selections that are usable in different grades, the following
seem peculiarly appropriate:

   1. The Fox and the Crow, Volume I, page 64. The Brown Thrush, I, 147.
   6. The Owl and the Pussy-cat, I, 339.
   7. Minerva and the Owl, II, 7.
   8. The Sparrow and the Eagle, II, 8.
   9. Who Stole the Bird's Nest? II, 399.
  10. The Barefoot Boy, IV, 3.
  11. Ode to a Skylark, VII, 275.
  12. (See also the lists of articles relating to birds, given under the
      section devoted to Nature Study in this volume.)

II. MEMORIAL DAY. A few of the selections suitable for this occasion are the following:

   1. Sheridan's Ride, Volume IV, page 223.
   2. The American Flag, V, 396.
   3. "Stonewall" Jackson's Way, V, 400.
   4. Breathes There the Man, VII, 151.
   5. For A' That and A' That, VII, 149.
   6. How Sleep the Brave, VII, 151.
   7. The Picket Guard, VII, 177.
   8. The Gettysburg Address, IX, 321.
   9. Abraham Lincoln, IX, 324.
  10. (See also in the Index the titles under the words Patriotism
      and History.)

III. CHRISTMAS. There are at least three selections dealing specifically with Christmas, while
many others are appropriate to the time:

  1. A Visit from St. Nicholas, Volume II, page 202.

  2. A Christmas Carol, VI, 244. (This may be made the basis of a very
     interesting afternoon. Parts of the story may be told briefly,
     parts may be read in full, parts recited and parts given as a
     dialogue. Thus the spirit of Christmas cheer and good will that
     animates this beautiful story may be communicated to the pupils in
     the pleasantest of ways and one that will be remembered.)

  3. Christmas in the Old Time, VI, page 356.

IV. BIRTHDAYS. In the Index will be found the names of a number of great men and women of whom
there are biographical sketches and from whose writings quotations have been made. Each of
these may be made the subject of a general exercise at an appropriate time.

V. DRAMATIZATION. Many a poem or story may be put into dramatic form with very little effort
and thus furnish an exercise for several pupils at the same time. The descriptive parts may
be read by a pupil not in the dialogue or may be omitted. In the latter case, acting may fill
the void or the narrative may be made into conversation between the characters. Some rearrangement
may be necessary and a little change in phraseology may be needed. Such adaptations the pupils
may make themselves. The following scenes may be used by pupils of different ages:

1. The description of the attack as given by Rebecca to Ivanhoe. (See The Attack on the Castle,
Volume IV, pages 324 to 338.) By costumes and good acting this may be made a very effective scene.

2. A few boys will enjoy rendering the conversational parts of The Heart of Bruce (Volume V,
page 316) while a girl reads the descriptive lines of the ballad.

3. By making some changes in the text and putting into direct discourse some of that which
Dickens has written in indirect discourse, a capital Christmas sketch may be made from the
Christmas doings at the Cratchit home. (See A Christmas Carol, Volume VI, pages 303 to 312.)

4. Limestone Broth (Volume VI, page 467) can be made into a neat little humorous dialogue with
very little change.

5. Several scenes from The Tempest (Volume VIII, page 364) are suitable for school use.

6. The Death of Caesar (Volume IX, page 143) is a fine dialogue and affords a good opportunity
for many speakers.

7. The conversation between Luigi and his mother (Pippa Passes, Volume IX, pages 317-323) is
a fine scene for school use, especially if Pippa really passes singing at the right moment.

VI. AN OLD-FASHIONED AFTERNOON. Not so many years ago it was an almost universal custom to
give over Friday afternoon to the "speaking of pieces." Occasionally even now a teacher wants
one of the old-fashioned mixed programs, and though she will prefer to make her own for each
occasion, the following example will show one of the many that might be made from Journeys
Through Bookland:

   1. Roll Call. (Pupils respond with a memory gem from the hundred
      given elsewhere in this volume.)
   2. Song: America, Volume VIII, page 60.
   3. Wynken, Blynken and Nod, I, 262.
   4. The Discontented Stonecutter, II, 12.
   5. Song: Sweet and Low, VI, 122.
   6. Beowulf and Grendel (retold in brief), III, 350.
   7. Incident of the French Camp, IV, 174.
   8. Song: My Old Kentucky Home, VII, 179.
   9. Echo, III, 286. (Let the answers of Echo be given by someone who
      is concealed from view of the audience.)
  10. The First Snowfall, II, 403.
  11. Song: Home, Sweet Home, VI, 221.

CHAPTER XIX

HANDY LIST OF STUDIES IN JOURNEYS THROUGH BOOKLAND

The following list gives the names of those selections upon which the more important studies
have been based. Here, they are arranged in the order in which the selections appear in the
several volumes. When a study accompanies a selection, the reference given is that upon which
the selection begins. However, as in a number of instances where studies are in one place while
the selections are in another, the cross references are given more in detail, and a statement
is made as to just what points in the selection are covered by the studies--whether these latter
are character studies, scene studies, word studies, studies of figures or historical studies.

Probably not a few of the readers of Journeys will be glad to use the studies continuously,
or will frequently want to know if some given selection in the volume has been treated. This
question is easily answered by referring to this chapter, finding the volume in which the selection
occurs, and then running down the numbers at the right of the page. This method will be more
expeditious than running over the titles of the selections, though of course the latter may
be followed.

Reference should also be had to the General Index, under Studies.

VOLUME ONE

                                                                  PAGE
  Down Tumbled Wheelbarrow                                        46
      (See Study of Picture--Volume X, page 58)
  The Dog and His Shadow                                          63
      (See Study on Scene--Volume X, page 164)
  The Fox and the Crow                                            64
      (See Complete Study--Volume X, page 187)
  The Hare and the Tortoise                                       71
      (See Complete Study--Volume X, page 185)
  The Fox and the Stork                                           73
      (See Study on Scene--Volume X, page 166)
  The Rock-a-By Lady                                              94
  The Wind and the Sun                                            95
      (See Lesson in Language--Volume X, page 357)
  My Bed is a Boat                                               126
      (See Study of Picture--Volume X, page 52)
  Little Blue Pigeon                                             133
  The Land of Counterpane                                        144
  The Brown Thrush                                               147
      (See Study--Volume X, page 276)
  The Hardy Tin Soldier                                          148
      (See Character Study--Volume X, page 158)
  Jack and the Beanstalk                                         156
      (See Study of Picture--Vol. X, page 52)
  The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse                           199
  Old Gaelic Lullaby                                             203
  Cinderella                                                     224
      (See Character Study--Volume I, page 238)
      (See Complete Study--Volume X, page 150)
  Wynken, Blynken and Nod                                        262
      (See Study of Picture--Volume X, page 53)
  The Twin Brothers                                              264
  Industry and Sloth                                             300
      (See Study in Close Reading--Volume X, page 229)
  The Drummer                                                    303
      (See Complete Study--Volume X, page 193)
  Keepsake Mill                                                  349
  "Something"                                                    395
  The Fairies                                                    405
  The Reaper and the Flowers                                     410
      (See Study--Volume X, page 272)
  The Ugly Duckling                                              414

VOLUME TWO

  The Golden Touch                                                43
  The Child's World                                               66
      (See Study--Volume X, page 277)
  The Fir Tree                                                    68
      (See Study of Picture, The Swallow and the Stork
      Came--Volume X, page 55)
      (See Study in The Lesson and the Author's Purpose--Volume
      X, page 173)
  Picture Books in Winter                                         87
  Seven Times One                                                119
      (See Study--Volume X, page 278)
  Shuffle-Shoon and Amber Locks                                  121
      (See Study of Picture--Volume X, page 54)
  The Snow Queen                                                 124
      (See Study on The Plot--Volume II, page 169)
  A Visit from Saint Nicholas                                    202
      (See Study in Figures--Volume X, page 270)
  Tom, the Water Baby                                            215
      (See Study of Picture, Tom and the Dragon Fly--Volume X,
      page 55)
      (See Nature Study Lesson--Volume X, page 381)
  The Milkmaid                                                   374
  Holger Danske                                                  377
  The Fairies of Caldon-Low                                      395
      (See Story Told--Volume X, page 68)
  Who Stole the Bird's Nest?                                     399
      (See Character Study--Volume X, page 95)
  The First Snowfall                                             403
      (See Study in Figures--Volume X, page 270)
      (See Complete Study--Volume X, page 281)
  King of the Golden River                                       405
      (See Study--Volume II, page 441)
      (See Study in Description--Volume X, page 366)
      (See Complete Study--Volume X, page 393)
  The Potato                                                     467
      (See Study--Volume X, page 285)
  The Queen of the Underworld                                    468
  Origin of the Opal                                             480
      (See Study--Volume X, page 285)
  In Time's Swing                                                481
  Why the Sea Is Salt                                            484
      (See Study in Close Reading--Volume X, page 231)

VOLUME THREE

  Robinson Crusoe                                                 45
      (See Nature Study--Volume X, page 382)
  Faithless Sally Brown                                           92
      (See Study in Close Reading--Volume X, page 232)
  Swiss Family Robinson                                           99
      (See Nature Study--Volume X, page 382)
  Cupid and Psyche                                               365
  Frithiof The Bold                                              394
  Lochinvar                                                      432
  Robin Hood and the Stranger                                    444
      (See Study in Narration--Volume X, page 363)

VOLUME FOUR

  The Barefoot Boy                                                 3
      (See Study--Volume X, page 286)
  Cid Campeador                                                    9
      (See Study in Exposition--Volume X, page 368)
  To H. W. L.                                                     84
  The Village Blacksmith                                          86
  The Definition of a Gentleman                                  170
      (See Study in Close Reading--Volume X, page 234)
  Incident of the French Camp                                    174
  The Boston Massacre                                            217
      (See Study in Argument--Volume X, page 370)
  Alfred the Great                                               260
      (See Study in History--Volume X, page 414)
  Little Giffin of Tennessee                                     461
      (See Story Told--Volume X, page 71)

VOLUME FIVE

  Gulliver's Travels                                               6
      (See Study in Close Reading on Adventures in
      Lilliput--Volume X, page 235)
  Ballad of Agincourt                                             95
      (See Story Told--Volume X, page 74)
  Lead, Kindly Light                                             110
      (See Study--Volume X, page 98)
  Geraint and Enid                                               148
      (See Study of Picture, Geraint hears Enid Singing--Volume X,
      page 60)
  The Passing of Arthur                                          237
      (See Complete Study--Volume X, page 214)
  The Heart of Bruce                                             316
      (See Study in Close Reading--Volume X, page 238)
  How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to Aix               335
  Reminiscences of a Pioneer                                     340
      (See Study--Volume X, page 119)
  Braddock's Defeat                                              379
      (See Study in Close Reading--Volume X, page 227)
  The American Flag                                              396

VOLUME SIX

  Rab and His Friends                                             99
      (See Study in Emotional Power--Volume X, page 177)
      (See Study in Close Reading--Volume X, page 225)
  Annie Laurie                                                   119
      (See Study in Close Reading--Volume X, page 243)
  Sweet and Low                                                  122
  The Bugle Song                                                 133
      (See Study--Volume X, page 287)
  A Christmas Carol                                              244
      (See Study in Scene--Volume X, page 168)
      (See Study of Picture, Bob and Tiny Tim--Volume X, page 41)
  Christmas in Old Time                                          356
  Poor Richard's Almanac                                         407
      (See Study in Character Building--Volume X, page 101)
  The Country Squire                                             474
  To My Infant Son                                               478

  VOLUME SEVEN

  The Daffodils                                                    1
  The Old Oaken Bucket                                            11
  Bannockburn                                                     15
  Boat Song                                                       17
  The Petrified Fern                                              77
      (See Study--Volume X, page 291)
  An Exciting Canoe Race                                          79
      (See Study in Forms of Expression--Volume X, page 376)
  The Recessional                                                164
  The Forsaken Merman                                            180
      (See Study--Volume X, page 295)
  Tom and Maggie Tulliver                                        186
  The Cloud                                                      257
      (See Study--Volume X, page 301)
  Brute Neighbors                                                260
      (See Study--Volume X, page 383)
  Ode to a Skylark                                               275
      (See Study in Figures--Volume X, page 268)
  The Pond in Winter                                             280
      (See Nature Study--Volume X, page 383)
  Winter Animals                                                 293
      (See Study--Volume X, page 383)
  Trees and Ants that Help Each Other                            306
      (See Study--Volume X, page 385)
  My Mother's Picture                                            335
      (See Study in Description--Volume X, page 367)
  The Reaper's Dream                                             345
  The Recovery of the Hispaniola                                 352
  The Cubes of Truth                                             406
  The Lost Child                                                 409
      (See Study in Close Reading--Volume X, page 243)

  VOLUME EIGHT

  David Crockett in the Creek War                                 37
      (See Study--Volume X, page 244)
  America                                                         60
  A Descent into the Maelstrom                                    95
  Hervé Riel                                                     168
      (See Story Told--Volume X, page 78)
  Dream Children                                                 335
  Reading Shakespeare                                            346
  The Tempest                                                    364

  VOLUME NINE

  The Impeachment of Warren Hastings                              32
      (See Study--Volume X, page 248)
  From The Death of Caesar                                       143
      (See Study--Volume X, page 253)
  Battle of Saratoga                                             176
      (See Study in History--Volume X, page 419)
  The Gold Bug                                                   232
      (See Study--Volume IX, page 283)
  The Vision of Mirza                                            285
      (See Study in Notes)
  Pippa Passes                                                   293
      (See Study--Volume IX, page 316)
  The Gettysburg Address                                         321
  Of Expense                                                     397
  Robert of Lincoln                                              444
  The Chambered Nautilus                                         454
  Ode to a Grecian Urn                                           462
  The Fate of the Indians                                        466
  A Call to Arms                                                 475

CHAPTER XX

SUPPLEMENTARY BOOK LISTS

If Journeys Through Bookland is read as we intend, it will occupy no inconsiderable part of
the time boys and girls give to reading. Yet there will be a call for more books. Some selections
from great authors will create a taste for more from the same writers, and certain pieces will
suggest lines of reading that may profitably extend far beyond the limits of the present volumes.
In fact, this series is meant to be the stimulus to a lifetime of reading. Some children are
naturally readers, and will require more to satisfy their avid tastes than may be sufficient
for their brothers and sisters, while other children may need to be helped even beyond the
limits covered by our plans. It may be that some parents will feel uncertain what advice to
give their boys and girls when asked about other books than those indicated in the text. For
such the following lists have been prepared.

At the present day, good libraries are to be found in almost every town, and either from the
school or the town library may be drawn most of the books mentioned. Books are always good
presents, and from these lists parents who have watched the development of their children's
tastes will find helpful hints in the selection of presents that will be accepted with joy
and read with continued pleasure.

The training these plans for reading have given will excite interest in the great classics
which the quantities of light, frivolous stories carelessly written for children have in a
measure relegated to the background. These classics are the foundation of literature, and without
a knowledge of them, best obtained in youth, genuine culture seems almost impossible.

In presenting the lists it has seemed best to make some of them parallel to the volumes of
this work rather than to arrange them by the ages of the children or their grades in school.
The power to read intelligently and with appreciation is not wholly dependent upon age, nor
does rank in school show the capability of the young person. Some boys of twelve will read
and enjoy things that others of sixteen will find almost impossible. Not infrequently a little
"sixth-grader" reads better literature than many a high school student. Other lists for older
boys and girls are classified according to subject-matter. The method in every case is obvious.

This series is for boys and girls of all ages; for girls as much as for boys. Good literature
appeals to universal taste, and there is little question of sex in it. There was a time when
girls were thought so different from boys that "girls' books" were written in abundance. Now
that girls are given the same education that boys have, they usually like the same things.
There will be found nearly as great extremes of taste in one sex as in the other during those
years to which this set is adapted. Whatever difference there is in the sexes will manifest
itself in what each selects for his or her own from the masterpiece that both read. That we
get from our reading what we put into it, is as true of us when we are young as it is when
we have grown older. To as great an extent as Alice is different from Fred will what she gets
from reading Rab and His Friends differ from what he absorbs.

In the books of this series the love story has little place, and into it sex problems do not
enter. Its readers have not reached an age when such things are of serious moment, and there
is enough good literature for them without dragging in or even admitting stories of passion
and those that make their strongest appeal to the attraction of one sex for another. However,
there is an abundance of sentiment, and the home feelings are recognized again and again; the
love of parents for each other and for their offspring, the love of brother and sister, friendship,
the pure affection of young people, love of home, of God, of country, all are subjects of the
finest selections the language contains. Such are to be found in abundance.

In the lists more latitude has been allowed, and while nothing has been included that may excite
anything but the purest emotions, yet room has been made for many of the great novels that
are real studies of the lives and characters of adults. These books, really written for older
people, will have their message for the young, a message that will be amplified and perhaps
changed entirely, when, after many years, the book is read again with no lessened interest.
Les Miserables was read once by a young boy whose attention was caught and held so strongly
by the exciting story that he held himself through all the long, prosy meanderings with which
Hugo has delayed the march of his plot. Some years later the same boy, grown to a college student,
read Les Miserables again with even greater interest. He remembered the story quite well, but
the prosy meanderings had to his broadened intelligence become wonderful pictures of life,
and even the book-long description of the Battle of Waterloo was fascinating, though its only
function in the story was to say that one man saved another man's life. The boy, now a man
in middle life, read Hugo's masterpiece a third time. Story and description were now secondary
in interest, but the author's deep insight into human nature, his brilliant style and shrewd,
kindly philosophy held the old reader more closely than had anything before. So will it be
with many of the books in the list. If we are to make friends, let us meet them as early as
we can, see them as often as we can, and cling to them as long as we can.

In recommending books to children, parents will do well to remember that books in which young
people are not interested will not be read in such a way as to be profitable. The books in
these lists are all interesting in themselves, and there need be no fear that they will not
be read. The child who has been trained after the manner indicated in these talks will need
little further assistance in mastering these books.

Volume I

     ÆSOP'S FABLES.
        There are many good editions published by the various schoolbook
        houses. That edited by J. H. Stickney and published by Ginn &
        Co. is as good as any, and contains also a supplement with
        fables from La Fontaine and Krilof.

     A CHILD'S GARDEN OF VERSES, by Robert Louis Stevenson.
        The edition illustrated by E. Mars and H. M. Squire and
        published by Rand, McNally & Co. is excellent. Jessie Wilcox
        Smith illustrates an edition for Charles Scribner's Sons.

     LULLABY LAND, by Eugene Field.
        This is published in beautiful form by Charles Scribner's Sons.

     FAIRY TALES, by Hans Christian Andersen.
        The schoolbook houses publish selections in an attractive form;
        Blackie and Son, London, a cheap edition.

     FAIRY TALES, by Wilhelm and Jakob Grimm.
        Selections, such as those edited by Sarah E. Wiltse for Ginn &
        Co., are better than the complete editions, for many of the
        Grimm tales are coarse and valueless.

     BLUE FAIRY BOOK and GREEN FAIRY BOOK, by Andrew Lang.
        Besides some of the Grimm tales these books contain folklore
        stories from many nations. Lang has edited other books in this
        series, but two are probably enough.

     THE ADVENTURES OF A BROWNIE, by Dinah Maria (Mulock) Craik.
        This is a charming little tale, much loved by children.

     PINOCCHIO, by C. Collodi.
        Walter Cramp's translation of this little Italian classic will
        be highly appreciated. Ginn and Company.

     OLD GREEK STORIES, by James Baldwin.
        American Book Company. This contains the stories of Arachne, the
        Gorgon's Head, Prometheus and Theseus.

     LETTERS FROM A CAT, by Helen Hunt Jackson.
        Amusing letters which a cat writes to its mistress. Helpful in
        teaching kindness to animals.

     THE BOOK OF JOYOUS CHILDREN, by James Whitcomb Riley.
        Charles Scribner's Sons; Child Rhymes, Bobbs-Merrill Co.;
        Child World, Bobbs-Merrill Co. Three books with delightful
        poems for children and about them.

Volume II

While the books mentioned in these lists seem most closely connected to the volume to which
they are ascribed, yet no hard and fast lines can be drawn. Children will read in the second
volume of this set before they have finished the first, and the books in the lists are suitable
whenever interest is ripe in the kind of literature which the books contain. Several of the
titles given in the list for the first volume should be considered with the second volume.

     WONDER BOOK FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
        This contains many other stories than those given in these
        volumes.

     TANGLEWOOD TALES, by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
        A second wonder book of classic myths. Houghton, Mifflin Co. are
        the authorized publishers of the wonder books.

     THE HEROES, OR GREEK FAIRY TALES, by Charles Kingsley.
        Published by E. P. Dutton & Co., with pictures by Rose Le
        Quesne.

     THREE FAIRY TALES, by Jean Ingelow.
        Illustrated by A. J. Ripley. D. C. Heath & Co.

     THE STORY OF ÆNEAS, by Michael Clarke.
        American Book Company. Fine illustrations. This contains the
        story of the Aeneid for young American readers.

     THE LITTLE LAME PRINCE, by Dinah Maria (Mulock) Craik.
        D. C. Heath & Co. An allegorical fairy tale of great beauty,
        teaching the lesson of patience and true manhood.

     LITTLE MR. THIMBLEFINGER AND HIS QUEER COUNTRY, by Joel Chandler
     Harris.
        Illustrations by Oliver Herford. Houghton, Mifflin Co.

     MR. RABBIT AT HOME, by Joel Chandler Harris.
        A sequel to Little Mr. Thimblefinger.

     NONSENSE SONGS AND STORIES, by Edward Lear.
        F. Warne & Co.

     COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
        This is one of the books that every family ought to own, there
        is so much in it for every age. Besides the lyrics children love
        so well, there are Hiawatha, Evangeline, Miles Standish
        and other poems, which belong to children as well as to the
        adults. The Cambridge edition published by Houghton, Mifflin Co.
        is a cheap, serviceable book, though the print is necessarily
        rather small.

     THE WONDERFUL CHAIR AND THE TALES IT TOLD, by Frances R.
     Browne.
        D. C. Heath & Co.

     THE BLUE BIRD FOR CHILDREN, by Maurice Maeterlinck.
        The story of the play, beautifully told. Silver, Burdett & Co.

     THE JUNGLE BOOK, by Rudyard Kipling.
        The hero is a child brought up among the wolves. A delightful
        story to create interest in wild animals. The Century Company.

     THE SECOND JUNGLE BOOK, by Rudyard Kipling.
        The Century Company.

     JUST SO STORIES, by Rudyard Kipling.

     WILD ANIMALS I HAVE KNOWN, by Ernest Thompson Seton.
        A delightful series of stories full of human interest.

Volume III

This volume contains selections from several books which it is felt will be read in their entirety
by most children. They are:

     ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND and THROUGH THE LOOKING-GLASS.
        Two modern fairy tales by Lewis Carroll (Charles Lutwidge
        Dodgson). The amusing pictures are by Sir John Tenniel. The
        Macmillan Company. These fantastic stories delight everyone who
        reads them.

     ROBINSON CRUSOE, by Daniel Defoe.
        There are many editions of this old and popular story for boys,
        from an abbreviated form in words of one syllable to the
        original work in full. W. H. Lambert has edited a school edition
        in excellent manner for Ginn & Co.

     THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON, by Johann Rudolph Wyss.
        Though not of such literary merit as Robinson Crusoe, it is
        similar in plot and usually more popular. Ginn & Co. publish a
        good, cheap edition, edited by J. H. Stickney.

     ARABIAN NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENT.
        The complete editions are not suitable for children to read, but
        the edition edited by Andrew Lang is excellent. Several
        schoolbook houses publish good selections, including the most
        popular tales.

Besides the books mentioned in the lists for Volumes I and II, the following might be suggested
here:

     THE COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS of John Greenleaf Whittier.
        Houghton, Mifflin Company's Cambridge edition is perhaps the
        best. Whittier did not write as much for children as Longfellow
        did, but his Snow-Bound is a classic that every child will
        love if he is helped a little in reading it. Other poems will
        appeal to the older members of the family.

     THE BOOK OF LEGENDS TOLD OVER AGAIN, by Horace E. Scudder.
        Houghton, Mifflin Co. The Flying Dutchman, St. Christopher,
        William Tell, and The Wandering Jew are some of the names.

     THE ADVENTURES OF ULYSSES, by Charles Lamb.
        D. C. Heath & Co.

     NORSE STORIES RE-TOLD FROM THE SAGAS, by Hamilton Wright Mabie.
        Rand, McNally & Co.

     THE BIOGRAPHY OF A GRIZZLY, by Ernest Thompson Seton.
        The Century Company.

     SOME MERRY ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD.
        Written and illustrated by Howard Pyle. Charles Scribner's Sons.

     THE STORY OF ROLAND, by James Baldwin.
        Illustrated by R. B. Birch. Charles Scribner's Sons.

     THE STORY OF SIEGFRIED, by James Baldwin.
        Illustrated by Howard Pyle. Charles Scribner's Sons.

Volume IV

     STORY OF THE CID.
        Retold by Calvin Dill Wilson. Lathrop, Lee and Shepard.

     OLD INDIAN LEGENDS.
        Retold graphically by Zitkala Sä, one of the tribe of the
        Dakotahs, and illustrated by Angel de Cora
        (Hin-ook-Mahiroi-Kilinaka), the Indian artist. Ginn & Co.

     INDIAN BOYHOOD, by Charles Eastman, a Sioux Indian.
        Full of the manners and customs of the Indians, and containing
        as well some good stories of adventure. Little, Brown & Co.

     GRANDFATHER'S CHAIR, by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
        Houghton, Mifflin Co. This book contains, besides the stories
        printed in this set, many other interesting historical tales.

     THE BOYS OF '76, by Charles Carleton Coffin.
        Harper and Bros. A fine book that will interest any child in the
        story of the Revolution. There are other books in a similar vein
        by the same author.

     THE STORY OF THE GREEKS,
     THE STORY OF THE ROMANS, and
     THE STORY OF THE ENGLISH
        are three good books by H. A. Guerber, which will help to create
        an interest in the history of those peoples and at the same time
        give information valuable in reading literature. All are
        published for school use by the American Book Company.

     CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND, by Charles Dickens.
        This book is always interesting to children, and is such good
        reading that we need not feel afraid of Dickens' inexactness and
        apparent prejudices. Read it as literature, not so much as
        history.

     BIRDS AND BEES, SHARP EYES AND OTHER PAPERS, by John Burroughs.
        Houghton, Mifflin Co. Though this may seem rather hard reading
        to some, it is delightful literature, and full of good lessons
        in observation for children. Other books by the same author are
        equally entertaining. An excellent book to read to children.

     INDIAN DAYS OF THE LONG AGO, by E. S. Curtis.
        World Book Co.

     THE MAGIC FOREST, by Stewart Edward White.
        Macmillan Co.

     THE WORLD OF THE GREAT FOREST, by Paul Du Chaillu.
        Harper and Bros. An interesting account of animal life, not
        without some literary merit. Other books by the same author will
        delight the adventurous.

     SHARP EYES, and
     MY STUDIO NEIGHBORS
        are two beautiful books, illustrated by the author, William
        Hamilton Gibson. Harper and Bros. They are as interesting and as
        charmingly written as any of the multitudinous nature books.

Volume V

     THE BOYS' KING ARTHUR, edited by Sidney Lanier.
        Illustrated by Alfred Kappes. Charles Scribner's Sons.

     THE VISION OF SIR LAUNFAL, by James Russell Lowell.
        One of the finest poems in the language. Best read in connection
        with the stories of King Arthur. Houghton, Mifflin Co.

     THE BOYS' FROISSART.
        The chronicles retold in simple English by Sidney Lanier.
        Scribners.

     TRAVELS OF MARCO POLO, abridged by Thomas W. Knox.
        The touch of fiction does not injure these old tales.

     LITTLE SMOKE, by William Osborn.
        An exciting story of Sioux life.

     TEN BIG INDIANS, by Mary Hazelton Wade.
        W. A. Wilde & Co. An interesting introduction to Indian history.

     HANS BRINKER; OR THE SILVER SKATES, by Mary Mapes Dodge.
        A delightful story of child life in Holland. A valuable picture
        of manners and customs.

     THE HOOSIER SCHOOL BOY, by Edward Eggleston.
        Charles Scribner's Sons. An interesting story of pioneer times.

     THE PETERKIN PAPERS, by Lucretia Peabody Hale.
        Houghton, Mifflin Co. One of the few good humorous stories for
        children.

     TOBY TYLER, OR TEN WEEKS WITH A CIRCUS, and
     MR. STUBBS'S BROTHER
        are two wholesome stories full of humor and pathos. Harper and
        Bros.

     THE STORY OF A NÜRNBERG STOVE, by Louise De la Ramée (Ouida).
        Educational Publishing Company.

     BETTY LEICESTER, by Sarah Orne Jewett.
        A fine story for girls. Houghton, Mifflin Co.

     THE BIRDS' CHRISTMAS CAROL, by Kate Douglas Wiggin (Riggs).
        Houghton, Mifflin Co. A charming story which will delight
        everybody. By the same author, The Story of Patsy, Timothy's
        Quest and Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm are all wholesome and
        entertaining.

     REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM, by Kate Douglas Wiggin.
        Houghton, Mifflin Co.

     THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER, A TALE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE OF ALL AGES,
        by Mark Twain (Samuel Langhorne Clemens). Harper and Bros. The
        story relates to England in the sixteenth century.

     THE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY, by Edward Everett Hale.
        Little, Brown & Co. The style and language are mature, but the
        story is one of the best lessons in patriotism ever written.

Volume VI

     TALES OF A GRANDFATHER, by Sir Walter Scott.
        An abridged edition, published by Ginn & Co., contains the best
        tales, but many children will like them all.

     THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.
        An excellent book for young people on account of its interest
        and its clear literary style. An edition by Houghton, Mifflin
        Co., contains a sketch of Franklin's life subsequent to the time
        when his autobiography ends.

     LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME, by Thomas Babington Macaulay.
        Inspiring tales in verse such as children love to hear.
        Horatius is among them.

     IVANHOE, by Sir Walter Scott.
        Houghton, Mifflin Co. publish a cheap school edition.

     THE TALISMAN, by Sir Walter Scott.

     SCOTTISH CHIEFS, by Jane Porter.
        This is one of the stories that young people enjoyed years ago.
        It helps to the reading of Scottish history, and is a good type
        of the romantic novel.

     ENOCH ARDEN, by Alfred Tennyson.

     IDYLS OF THE KING, by Alfred Tennyson.

     THE COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS of Oliver Wendell Holmes.
        Cambridge edition of Houghton, Mifflin Co. The Grandmother's
        Story of Bunker Hill, A Ballad of the Boston Tea Party, Ode
        for Washington's Birthday, Old Ironsides, Lexington and
        others have historical value. The humorous poems like The
        One-Hoss Shay, How the Old Horse Won the Bet, and such
        beautiful poems as The Chambered Nautilus and The Last Leaf
        always appeal to young folks.

     THE SPY, by James Fenimore Cooper.
        This is a thrilling story of the Revolution.

     THE PILOT, by James Fenimore Cooper.
        This also is a story of the Revolution, and it has Paul Jones as
        its hero.

     MEN OF IRON, by Howard Pyle.
        Harper and Bros. The "men of iron" are Henry IV of England and
        the men of his court.

     THE STORY OF A BAD BOY, by Thomas Bailey Aldrich.
        Houghton, Mifflin Co. An amusing and frank story of New England
        boy life.

Volume VII

     THE CRICKET ON THE HEARTH, by Charles Dickens.
        This is one of the Christmas stories, and is written in the best
        vein of the fascinating author.

     DAVID COPPERFIELD, by Charles Dickens.
        This is usually considered the masterpiece of the author.

     A TALE OF TWO CITIES, by Charles Dickens.
        A thrilling story of the French Revolution, rather full of
        terrible happenings, and rather mature.

     THE LADY OF THE LAKE, and
     MARMION, by Sir Walter Scott,
        the two best of his longer poems, rarely fail to interest young
        people.

     TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE, by Charles and Mary Lamb.

     THE TEMPEST,
     A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM, and
     THE MERCHANT OF VENICE,
        are the three Shakespearean plays that first interest children.
        Care should be taken in the selection of the edition, as none of
        the plays in their original form are suitable for children.
        School editions with notes are excellent. The Tempest is
        printed in Volume VIII of this set, and is deferred to that
        point on account of the very full notes and comments that
        accompany it. The play itself may be read quite early, and
        children should be encouraged to try their skill on Shakespeare
        as soon as they show signs of interest.

     UNDINE, by Baron de la Motte Fouqué,
        is a beautiful fairy tale from the German, with interest for
        older children than those who read Andersen and Grimm.

     PLUTARCH'S LIVES.
        White's Boys' and Girls' Plutarch is recommended. The lives of
        Brutus, Julius Cæsar, Themistocles, Pericles and Alexander are
        among the more interesting.

     THE BURNING OF ROME, by A. J. Church,
        is a thrilling story of that event.

     CUORE, by Edmondo De Amicis.
        The journal of an Italian schoolboy. Useful and moral, but not
        always interesting to American boys.

     IN HIS NAME, by Edward Everett Hale.
        A tale of religious persecution.

     THE PEASANT AND THE PRINCE, by Harriet Martineau.
        An intensely interesting picture of France just before the
        Revolution.

     PICCIOLA, by X. B. Santine.
        A touching story whose scene is laid in France in the time of
        Napoleon.

     LIFE OF DANIEL BOONE, by J. and J. C. Abbott.

     THE ILIAD, Bryant's translation.

Classified Lists

When boys and girls can read the first seven volumes of this set intelligently and with pleasure
they are thinking for themselves. Their tastes are forming rapidly, and they have learned how
to read nearly everything that comes to them. They know how to use reference books, and can
"make out the meaning" of difficult passages. They are reading for information and culture.
What they lack is experience in life, and so they are unable to interpret what they read as
fully as can those who have lived longer, seen more of the world, enjoyed more, suffered more.
Where they are liable to fail and go astray is in the lack of judgment. They know right and
wrong, but they cannot always see the difference. They are apt to be misled by their feelings
and to be ruled by their emotions.

The studies and selections of the last three volumes are varied and highly suggestive. They
will open new lines of thought and prompt to wider reading in many directions. The contents
vary in difficulty as in character, but are not graded in a strict sense of the term. They
are meant for independent readers, readers who are governed by mood or purpose and no longer
rely upon outside guidance.

Accordingly, lists of books suitable for readers of these volumes will cover every department
of literature and lead into the reading favored by adults. The majority of these lists deal
with literature. They contain the names of those books which are distinctly helpful, and from
which young readers may derive nothing to corrupt taste or give false impressions of life.
They are the standard books of the language. The lists might have been longer; they do contain,
however, the names of those best books that every cultured person should know. For convenience
in reference the arrangement is the alphabetical order of authors' names.

Fiction

     AINSWORTH, WILLIAM HARRISON: The Tower of London, the story of
        Lady Jane Grey, and the plots and intrigues that centered about
        her.

     ALCOTT, LOUISA M.: Little Men and Little Women, two interesting
        and thoroughly wholesome books for boys and girls.

     AUSTEN, JANE: Pride and Prejudice, an old-fashioned story,
        interesting, but liable to be called dull by those who read only
        the lively stories of the day.

     BLACKMORE, R. D.: Lorna Doone, a delightful romance, the scene of
        which is laid in Exmoor, England, in the beginning of the
        eighteenth century.

     BULWER-LYTTON, SIR EDWARD: The Last Days of Pompeii, the author's
        greatest novel; The Last of the Barons, the story of the Earl
        of Warwick; Harold, The Last of the Saxons, a tale of the
        Norman Conquest of England.

     DOYLE, A. CONAN: The White Company, an exciting fourteenth
        century story.

     ELIOT, GEORGE: Silas Marner, an intensely human story, a heart
        history; Romola, a thrilling story of Florence in the days of
        Savonarola, a study in the degeneration of character that comes
        from doing only the agreeable things in life.

     GOLDSMITH, OLIVER: The Vicar of Wakefield, an amusing and at
        times pathetic picture of English country life in the eighteenth
        century.

     HAWTHORNE, NATHANIEL: The Scarlet Letter, a tale of sin and its
        punishment in Puritan New England; The Marble Faun, an Italian
        story full of the art and culture of Rome.

     HUGO, VICTOR: Les Miserables, one of the greatest novels of the
        world, but its digressions and its philosophy make it difficult
        reading for the young. Interesting abridgements of it may be had
        from the schoolbook houses.

     SAINT PIERRE, BERNARDIN DE: Paul and Virginia, a pretty love
        story from the French.

     SCOTT, SIR WALTER: Kenilworth, a tale of the days of Queen
        Elizabeth; Old Mortality, a story of the Covenanters; Guy
        Mannering, an eighteenth century tale, with Meg Merrilies,
        Dominic Sampson and others of Scott's most famous characters;
        The Heart of Midlothian, a tale of sin and its punishment,
        with a wonderful picture of a sister's love and devotion.

     STOWE, HARRIET BEECHER: Uncle Tom's Cabin, an interesting story,
        but like most books written for partisan purposes, its influence
        is not now wholesome.

     THACKERAY, WILLIAM MAKEPEACE: Henry Esmond, Pendennis and The
        Newcomes may be read in the order named. Vanity Fair is
        better appreciated by adults.

     TWAIN, MARK: Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn, two stories whose
        fun every boy will appreciate.

     WALLACE, LEW: Ben Hur, a Tale of the Christ. An admirable
        historical novel.

Poetry and Drama

     BROWNING, ROBERT: Besides the poems given in these books, The Lost
        Leader and Rabbi Ben Ezra are enjoyed by boys and girls.

     BRYANT, WILLIAM CULLEN: The Poetical Works (Household Edition),
        D. Appleton & Co. The Song of Marion's Men, The Green
        Mountain Boys, Thanatopsis, Sella, The Death of the
        Flowers, The Planting of the Apple Tree and Robert of
        Lincoln are among his best poems.

     SHAKESPEARE, WILLIAM: Julius Cæsar and Coriolanus, two plays
        based on Roman history and excellent for reading purposes;
        Richard II (1398-1399), Henry IV (1402-1413), Henry V
        (1414-1420), Henry VI (1422-1471), Richard III (1471-1485),
        all based on English history; As You Like It, a great comedy;
        Hamlet and King Lear, perhaps the two greatest tragedies.
        All these are excellent reading, especially in such an edition
        as the Temple Classics. Other plays may well be read, but
        everyone should know the foregoing list.

Essays

     EMERSON, RALPH WALDO: The American Scholar, Self-Reliance,
        Culture and Behavior may be read with profit by the young,
        even if they do not fully understand the philosophy.

     HALE, EDWARD EVERETT: American Essays and English Essays, two
        books edited by Hale. They contain selections from the writings
        of George William Curtis, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Washington
        Irving, James Russell Lowell, Addison, Goldsmith, Lamb and
        Thackeray.

     HOLMES, OLIVER WENDELL: The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table, a
        charming series of talks which embody the best of Holmes's wit,
        wisdom and philosophy. One of those things everybody must read.

     IRVING, WASHINGTON: The Sketch Book contains such perfect stories
        as Rip Van Winkle and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, as well
        as a number of fine essays for later reading.

     ROOSEVELT, THEODORE: American Ideals and Other Essays. Putnam.

     RUSKIN, JOHN: Sesame and Lilies. In spite of its seeming
        difficulty, this book contains some of the most inspiring words
        ever spoken on books and reading.

     WARNER, CHARLES DUDLEY: A-Hunting of the Deer and Other Essays, a
        delightful little collection that young people will enjoy and
        that has fine literary qualities. Houghton, Mifflin Co.

Nature

     THOREAU, HENRY DAVID: Walden, a vivid book of outdoor life. Such
        also are A Week on the Concord and Merrimac Rivers and
        Excursions in Field and Forest.

Biography

     FABRE, JEAN-HENRI: Our Humble Helpers, familiar talks on the
        domestic animals. The Century Co.

     BOSWELL, JAMES: Life of Samuel Johnson. The first great
        biography, and still the most remarkable in its intimacy. Not of
        general interest to young people.

     BROOKS, ELDRIDGE STREETER: Historic Girls. G. P. Putnam's Sons.

     BROOKS, NOAH: Life of Abraham Lincoln. G. P. Putnam's Sons.

     BURROUGHS, JOHN: John James Audubon. Small, Maynard & Co.

     GOLDING, VAUTIER: The Story of Henry M. Stanley. E. P. Dutton &
        Co.

     HARRISON, FREDERICK: Oliver Cromwell. Macmillan.

     IRVING, WASHINGTON: Washington, and Mahomet.

     LODGE, HENRY CABOT: Alexander Hamilton. Houghton, Mifflin Co.

     NICOLAY, JOHN G.: Boys' Life of Abraham Lincoln.

     OBER, FREDERICK O.: Pizarro. Harper.

     RIIS, JACOB A.: The Making of an American. Macmillan.

     SCHURZ, CARL: Life of Henry Clay. Houghton, Mifflin Co.

     SCUDDER, HORACE ELISHA: George Washington. Houghton, Mifflin Co.

     TRENT, W. P.: Robert E. Lee.

     WISTER, OWEN: U. S. Grant. Beacon Biography.

History

     BANCROFT, GEORGE: History of the United States (to the
        inauguration of Washington). A voluminous history with
        interesting passages, but tedious to young readers.

     DRAPER, ANDREW SLOAN: The Rescue of Cuba. Silver, Burdett & Co.

     FISKE, JOHN: The War of Independence. Houghton, Mifflin Co.

     LODGE, HENRY CABOT, and ROOSEVELT, THEODORE: Hero Tales from
        American History. The Century Company.

     MOTLEY, JOHN LOTHROP: The Rise of the Dutch Republic. This, with
        other histories by the same writer, is a long and brilliant
        account, full of interest to the older youths who have a taste
        for history.

     PARKMAN, FRANCIS: La Salle and the Northwest, The Conspiracy of
        Pontiac, and Montcalm and Wolfe are three histories of a
        brilliant series on the French explorations and colonizations in
        the Northwest. Parkman is one of our finest historical writers,
        and his graphic style has given many a young man a deep interest
        in history.

     PRESCOTT, WILLIAM HICKLING: The Conquest of Mexico and The
        Conquest of Peru are two interesting histories of the longer
        type, written in an interesting style that many youths will
        enjoy. Prescott's work lies with the Spanish, as Motley's with
        the Dutch and Parkman's with the French.

     ROOSEVELT, THEODORE (see LODGE, HENRY CABOT).

Travel and Geography

     BUTTERWORTH, HEZEKIAH: Zig-Zag Journeys in Classic Lands. There
        are other interesting Zig-Zag Journeys by the same author.

     DANA, RICHARD HENRY: Two Years Before the Mast.

     DARWIN, CHARLES: Voyage of a Naturalist.

     DU CHAILLU, PAUL: The Land of the Long Night. A winter journey
        through Northern Europe.

     INGERSOLL, ERNEST: The Book of the Ocean.

     JENKS, TUDOR: The Boy's Book of Exploration. Deals principally
        with Africa.

     KNOX, THOS.: The Boy Travelers in South America. There are other
        interesting books in the same series.

     ROOSEVELT, THEODORE: Stories of the Great West. Century Co.

     STANLEY, HENRY M.: In Darkest Africa.

     STOCKTON, FRANK RICHARD: Personally Conducted. Interesting
        descriptions of places in Europe.

     TAYLOR, BAYARD: Views Afoot.

     TWAIN, MARK (Samuel Langhorne Clemens): Innocents Abroad. An
        amusing account of European travel with good descriptions.

     WARNER, CHARLES DUDLEY: My Winter on the Nile.

Miscellaneous

The books in the following list have not been selected because of their literary qualities,
but because they contain things that are of interest and value to young people. It is thought
that parents may wish some information concerning such books as are mentioned, and those given
in the list can be relied upon as being interesting, instructive and not expensive. The arrangement
is by title.

     AMERICAN BOYS' HANDY BOOK OF CAMP LORE AND WOODCRAFT, by Daniel
        Cortes Beard. Tells how to fish, hunt, camp, and how to make a
        great variety of things.

     AMERICAN GIRLS' HANDY BOOK, by Adelia B. Beard. Directions for
        making and doing. A companion to American Boys' Handy Book.

     AMERICAN GIRLS' HOME BOOK OF WORK AND PLAY, by Helen Campbell.
        Outdoor and indoor games and amusements, Christmas gifts,
        cooking, etc.

     AMONG THE LAW MAKERS, by Edmund Alton Bailey. Deals with the
        national Congress, largely the recollections of a former page.

     BEGINNER'S GARDEN BOOK, THE, by Allen French.

     BOYS' BOOK OF INVENTIONS, THE, by Ray Stannard Baker.
        Descriptions of our latest inventions.

     BOYS' SECOND BOOK OF INVENTIONS, THE, by Ray Stannard Baker.

     BOY SCOUTS' BOOK OF STORIES, Edited by Franklin K. Mathiews.

     CAREERS OF DANGER AND DARING, by Cleveland Moffett. Deals with
        the dangerous occupations of man, steeple-climbing, fire
        service, ballooning, etc.

     CENTURY BOOK FOR YOUNG AMERICANS, THE, by Eldridge Streeter
        Brooks. Deals with Washington and the government of the United
        States.

     COMPLETE HOUSEKEEPER, by Emily Holt.

     ELECTRIC TOY-MAKING FOR AMATEURS, by T. O'Connor Sloane. A
        practical book, interesting to boys.

     EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE, by G. M. Hopkins. A large and rather
        expensive book on experimental physics.

     FLAME, ELECTRICITY AND THE CAMERA. An account of man's progress
        from the first kindling of fire to the present time.

     GARDEN MAKING, by Liberty Hyde Bailey. A practical book for
        school and house.

     HANDYCRAFT FOR HANDY GIRLS, by A. Neely Hall and Dorothy
        Perkins. Practical plans for work and play.

     HARPER'S INDOOR BOOK FOR BOYS, and HARPER'S OUTDOOR BOOK FOR BOYS,
        by J. H. Adams. Practical directions for work and play.

     MARY FRANCES SEWING-BOOK, by Jane Eyre Foyer.

     OUTLINES OF THE EARTH'S HISTORY, by N. S. Shaler. A popular book
        on physiography.

     PRACTICAL TRACK AND FIELD ATHLETICS, by John Graham and Ellery
        H. Clark.

     RULES OF ORDER (Pocket Manual), by General Henry M. Roberts.
        Deals with rules of practice in deliberating assemblies.

     YOUNG PEOPLE'S STORY OF ART, by Ida Prentice Whitcomb.

     YOUNG AMERICAN, by Harry Pratt Judson. An outline of our system
        of government.

     WITH MEN WHO DO THINGS, by A. Russell Bond. "Scientific American"
        Series.

HANDY TABLE OF ENGLISH WRITERS

  A. PERIOD OF PREPARATION. From Caedmon's Paraphrase, (670),
     to the death of Chaucer (1400).
     I. Prior to Chaucer's birth (1340?).
        Beowulf.
        Caedmon, ?-680.
        Bede, 673-735.

    II. During Chaucer's life.
        Sir John Mandeville, 1300-1372.
        John Wyclif, 1324-1384.
        William Langland, Piers Plowman, 1332-?.
        CHAUCER, 1340?-1400.

  B. PERIOD OF ACCOMPLISHMENT. From the death of Chaucer to present time.
     I. The Period of Italian Influence. From the death of Chaucer to the
        Restoration of Charles II (1660).
        1. The Age of Reaction. From the death of Chaucer to the
           Accession of Queen Elizabeth (1558).
           Malory, Morte d'Arthur.
           William Tyndale, 1449-1536.
        2. The Age of Elizabeth. From 1558 to 1603,
           the Accession of James I.
           John Lyly, 1554?-1606.
           FRANCIS BACON, 1561-1626.
           Sir Philip Sidney, 1554-1586.
           Sir Walter Raleigh, 1552-1618.
           EDMUND SPENSER, 1552-1599.
           Christopher Marlowe, 1564-1593.
           WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, 1564-1616.
           Ben Jonson, 1573-1637.

        3. The Puritan Age. From the Accession of James I to the
           Restoration of Charles II (1660).
             Izaak Walton, 1593-1683.
             Jeremy Taylor, 1613-1667.
             Sir Thomas Browne, 1605-1682.
             John Bunyan, 1628-1688.
             JOHN MILTON, 1608-1674.
             Robert Herrick, 1591-1674.

    II. The Period of French Influence. From the Restoration of Charles
        II to the death of Pope (1744).
        1. Age of the Restoration. From the Restoration of Charles II
           to the Accession of Queen Anne (1702).
             Samuel Butler, 1612-1680.
             JOHN DRYDEN, 1631-1700.
             John Locke, 1632-1704.
             Samuel Pepys, 1633-1703.
             Sir Isaac Newton, 1642-1727.

        2. The Age of Queen Anne. From the Accession of Queen Anne to
           the death of Pope.
             Jonathan Swift, 1667-1745.
             Daniel De Foe, 1661?-1731.
             Richard Steele, 1672-1729.
             JOSEPH ADDISON, 1662-1745.
             ALEXANDER POPE, 1688-1744.

   III. The Modern English Period. From the death of Pope to the present
        time.
        1. The Beginnings. From the death of Pope to 1780.
             Samuel Richardson, 1689-1761.
             Henry Fielding, 1707-1754.
             Dr. Samuel Johnson, 1709-1784.
             David Hume, 1711-1776.
             Laurence Sterne, 1713-1768.
             Thomas Gray, 1716-1771.
             Tobias George Smollett, 1721-1771.
             OLIVER GOLDSMITH, 1728-1774.
             Edmund Burke, 1729-1797.
             Edward Gibbon, 1737-1794.

        2. The Romantic School. From 1780 to 1837,
           the Accession of Queen Victoria.
             WILLIAM WORDSWORTH, 1770-1850.
             SIR WALTER SCOTT, 1771-1832.
             Samuel Taylor Coleridge, 1772-1834.
             Robert Southey, 1774-1843.
             Charles Lamb, 1775-1834.
             Lord Byron, 1788-1824.
             Percy Bysshe Shelley, 1792-1822.
             John Keats, 1795-1821.

        3. The Victorian Age. From the Accession of Victoria to the
           present time.
             Thomas Carlyle, 1795-1881.
             Thomas Macaulay, 1800-1859.
             Elizabeth Barrett Browning, 1806-1861.
             ALFRED TENNYSON, 1809-1892.
             William Makepeace Thackeray, 1811-1863.
             Charles Dickens, 1812-1870.
             Robert Browning, 1812-1889.
             John Ruskin, 1819-1900.
             GEORGE ELIOT, 1819-1880.
             Matthew Arnold, 1822-1888.
             Robert Louis Stevenson, 1850-1894.

HANDY TABLE OF AMERICAN WRITERS

  A. The Colonial Period. The seventeenth and eighteenth century writers.
       Anne Bradstreet, 1612-1672.
       Cotton Mather, 1663-1728.
       BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, 1706-1790.

  B. The National Period. The nineteenth century writers.
      I. The Earlier Group.
           William Ellery Channing, 1780-1842.
           WASHINGTON IRVING, 1783-1859.
           James Fenimore Cooper, 1789-1851.
           William Cullen Bryant, 1794-1878.
           William Hickling Prescott, 1796-1859.
           Edgar Allan Poe, 1809-1849.

     II. The Civil War Group.
           George Bancroft, 1800-1891.
           RALPH WALDO EMERSON, 1803-1882.
           NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE, 1804-1864.
           HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW, 1807-1882.
           JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER, 1807-1892.
           OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, 1809-1894.
           John Lothrop Motley, 1814-1877.
           Henry David Thoreau, 1817-1862.
           JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL, 1819-1891.
           Francis Parkman, 1823-1893.

    III. Later Writers.
           Walt Whitman, 1819-1892.
           Richard Henry Stoddard, 1825-1903.
           Bayard Taylor, 1825-1878.
           Edmund Clarence Stedman, 1833-1908.
           Mark Twain, 1835-1910.
           Eugene Field, 1850-1895.

GENERAL INDEX

  A

  Abou Ben Adhem: IX, 11.

  Abraham Lincoln: IX, 324.

  ADDISON, JOSEPH.
    Selections: The Vision of Mirza: IX, 285.
      Sir Roger de Coverley: IX, 371.

  ADVENTURE.
    Robinson Crusoe: III, 45.
    The Swiss Family Robinson: III, 99.
    The Escape from Prison: IV, 130.
    The Sunken Treasure: IV, 199.
    The Arickara Indians: IV, 472.
    Gulliver's Travels: V, 6.
    Reminiscences of a Pioneer: V, 340.
    The Buccaneers: V, 359.
    Captain Morgan at Maracaibo: V, 365.
    The Lion and the Missionary: VI, 93.
    The Shipwreck: VI, 371.
    Elephant Hunting: VI, 385.
    An Exciting Canoe Race: VII, 79.
    The Buffalo: VII, 96.
    A Gorilla Hunt: VII, 247.
    The Recovery of the Hispaniola: VII, 352.
    Ringrose and His Buccaneers: VIII, 1.
    David Crockett in the Creek War: VIII, 37.
    A Descent into the Maelstrom: VIII, 95.
    How They Took the Gold-Train: VIII, 180.
    Ascent of the Jungfrau: IX, 1.
    The Gold-Bug: IX, 232.
    Modestine: IX, 403.

  ÆSOP.
    Biography: II, 1.

  Afterwhile: II, 123.

  Aladdin, The Story of. See Story of Aladdin.

  ALEXANDER, CECIL FRANCES.
    Selection: The Burial of Moses: IV, 266.

  Alfred the Great: IV, 260.

  Alhambra, The: VIII, 153.

  ALLEN, GRANT.
    Selection: A Bed of Nettles: VIII, 209.

  ALLINGHAM, WILLIAM.
    Selections: Fairies, The: I, 405.
      Four Ducks on a Pond: VI, 98.
      Leprecaun, The: III, 33.

  ALLSTON, WASHINGTON.
    Selection: Boyhood: VI, 122.

  America: VIII, 60.

  American Flag, The: V, 396.

  American Writers, Handy Table of: X, 473.

  Ancient Mariner, The Rime of the. See Rime of the Ancient
     Mariner, The.

  ANDERSEN, HANS CHRISTIAN.
    Biography: II, 81.
    Selections: Darning-Needle, The: II, 463.
      Fir Tree, The: II, 68.
      Flax, The: I, 378.
      Hardy Tin Soldier, The: I, 148.
      Holger Danske: II, 377.
      Pea Blossom, The: I, 205.
      Snow Queen, The: II, 124.
      "Something:" I, 395.
      Ugly Duckling, The: I, 414.
      What the Old Man Does Is Always Right: II, 387.

  Annabel Lee: VII, 341.

  Annie Laurie: VI, 119.

  Apostrophe: X, 266.

  Arabian Nights.
    Selections: Falcon and the Partridge, The: II, 6.
      Second Voyage of Sinbad the Sailor, The: III, 340.
      Sparrow and the Eagle, The: II, 8.
      Story of Aladdin, The: III, 288.

  ARCHIBALD, MRS.
    Selection: John's Pumpkin: III, 1.

  Arickara Indians, The: IV, 472.

  ARNOLD, MATTHEW.
    Selections: Forsaken Merman, The: VII, 180.
      Sohrab and Rustum: VI, 173.

  Arthur, King: V, 113.

  ARTON, BERNARD.
    Selection: Bruce and the Spider: V, 314.

  Ascent of the Jungfrau: IX, 1.

  Ass in the Lion's Skin, The: I, 65.

  Atalanta's Race: I, 386.

  Attack on the Castle, The: IV, 322.

  At the Seaside: I, 129.

  Auld Lang Syne: VI, 228.

  Autumn Fires: I, 394.

  Away: IV, 460.

  AYTOUN, WILLIAM E.
    Selection: The Heart of Bruce: V, 316.

  B

  Baby, The: II, 11.

  BACON, SIR FRANCIS.
    Biography: IX, 395.
    Selections: Of Expence: IX, 397.
      Of Studies: IX, 400.

  BAKER, SIR SAMUEL W.
    Selection: The Escape from Prison: IV, 130.

  Bald Knight, The: I, 385.

  Balin and Balan: V, 130.

  Ballad of Agincourt, The: V. 95.

  BALLADS.
    Lochinvar: III, 432.
    Robin Hood: III, 436.
    Robin Hood and Little John: III, 437.
    Robin Hood and the Stranger: III, 444.
    Robin Hood and the Widow's Three Sons: III, 449.
    Robin Hood and Allin a Dale: III, 454.
    The Wreck of the Hesperus: IV, 89.
    Chevy-Chase: IV, 312.
    The Ballad of Agincourt: V, 95.
    The Heart of Bruce: V, 316.
    The Inchcape Rock: V, 465.
    Lord Ullin's Daughter: VI, 23.
    Hervé Riel: VIII, 168.

  Bannockburn: VII, 15.

  Barbara Frietchie: III, 347.

  Barefoot Boy, The: IV, 3.

  Baron Munchausen. See Munchausen, Baron.

  Bat and the Two Weasels, The: I, 154.

  Battle Hymn of the Republic: V, 399.

  Battle of Cressy, The: IX, 161.

  Battle of Hastings, The: IX, 330.

  Battle of Ivry: VIII, 76.

  Battle of Saratoga, The: IX, 176.

  Battle of Thermopylæ, The: VIII, 81.

  Battle of Trafalgar, The: VIII, 284.

  Battle of Waterloo, The: VIII, 176.

  Baucis and Philemon: I, 431.

  Beauty and the Beast: I, 318.

  Bed in Summer: I, 173.

  Bed of Nettles, A: VIII, 209.

  BEERS, MRS. ETHEL LYNN.
    Selection: The Picket Guard: VII, 177.

  BELT, THOMAS.
    Selections: Some Clever Monkeys: VI, 402.
      Trees and Ants That Help Each Other: VII, 306.

  Beowulf and Grendel: III, 350.

  Bernardo del Carpio: IV, 270.

  Beth Gelert: III, 42.

  Better Than Gold: IV, 1.

  BIOGRAPHY.
    Robert Louis Stevenson: I, 128.
    Eugene Field: I, 242.
    Æsop: II, 1.
    Hans Christian Andersen: II, 81.
    Henry Wadsworth Longfellow: IV, 62.
    Alice Cary: IV, 116.
    Phoebe Cary: IV, 116.
    Nathaniel Hawthorne: IV, 180.
    Alfred the Great: IV, 260.
    John Bunyan: IV, 417.
    Jonathan Swift: V, 1.
    Sir Walter Scott: VI, 26.
    Matthew Arnold: VI, 204.
    John Howard Payne: VI, 221.
    Charles Dickens: VI, 232.
    Thomas Gray: VI, 369.
    George Rogers Clark: VI, 422.
    Queen Victoria: VII, 152.
    William Cowper: VII, 331.
    John Greenleaf Whittier: VII, 381.
    William Cullen Bryant: VII, 391.
    Oliver Wendell Holmes: VII, 398.
    James Russell Lowell: VII, 411.
    Elizabeth Barrett Browning: VII, 419.
    David Crockett: VIII, 29.
    Père Marquette: VIII, 121.
    Washington Irving: VIII, 216.
    Charles Lamb: VIII, 328.
    Mary Lamb: VIII, 328.
    William Shakespeare: VIII, 468.
    Florence Nightingale: IX, 13.
    Julius Caesar: IX, 155.
    Geoffrey Chaucer: IX, 201.
    Samuel Johnson: IX, 216.
    Sir Francis Bacon: IX, 395.
    John Keats: IX, 457.
    See LEGENDARY HEROES; HISTORY.

  BJÖRNSON, BJÖRNSTJERNE.
    Selection: The Tree: I, 301.

  Black Hawk Tragedy, The: VII, 58.

  BLAKE, WILLIAM.
    Selection: Infant Joy: II, 10.

  Blind Lassie, The: VI, 120.

  Block City: I, 196.

  Bluebeard: II, 22.

  Boat Song: VII, 17.

  Book Lists, Supplementary: X, 451.

  Boston Massacre, The: IV, 217.

  BOSWELL, JAMES.
    Selection: From The Life of Johnson: IX, 216.

  Boy and the Nettle, The: I, 65.

  Boyhood: VI, 122.

  Boys and the Frogs, The: I, 63.

  Braddock's Defeat: V, 379.

  BRANCH, MARY BOLLES.
    Selection: The Petrified Fern, VII, 77.

  Breathes There the Man: VII, 151.

  Brook, The. See Song of the Brook.

  Brother and Sister, The: I, 410.

  BROWN, JOHN, M. D.
    Selection: Rab and His Friends: VI, 99.

  BROWNING, ELIZABETH BARRETT.
    Biography: VII, 419.
    Selections: Child's Thought of God, A: VII, 418.
      Romance of the Swan's Nest, The: VIII, 315.

  BROWNING, ROBERT.
    Selections: Hervé Riel: VIII, 168.
      How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to Aix: V, 335.
      Incident of the French Camp: IV, 174.
      Pied Piper of Hamelin, The: III, 384.
      Pippa Passes: IX, 293.

  Brown Thrush, The: I, 147.

  Bruce, Robert, The Rise of. See Rise of Robert Bruce, The.

  Bruce and the Spider: V, 314.

  Brute Neighbors: VII, 260.

  BRYANT, WILLIAM CULLEN.
    Biography: VII, 391.
    Selections: Robert of Lincoln: IX, 444.
      To a Waterfowl: VII, 395.
      To the Fringed Gentian: VII, 4.

  Buccaneers, The: V, 359.

  Buffalo, The: VII, 96.

  Bugle Song, The: VI, 133.

  BUNYAN, JOHN.
    Biography: IV, 417.
    Selection: The Pilgrim's Progress: IV, 423.

  Burial of Moses: IV, 266.

  BURNS, ROBERT.
    Selections: Auld Lang Syne: VI, 228.
      Bannockburn: VII, 15.
      Cotter's Saturday Night, The: VIII, 319.
      For A' That and A' That: VII, 149.
      To a Mountain Daisy: VII, 8.
      To a Mouse: VII, 5.

  BYRON, GEORGE GORDON, LORD.
    Selections: Battle of Waterloo, The: VIII, 176.
      Destruction of Sennacherib, The: VI, 141.
      Vision of Belshazzar, The: VI, 153.
      Call to Arms, A: IX, 475.

  C

  CAMPBELL, THOMAS.
    Selections: Lord Ullin's Daughter: VI, 23.
      Rainbow, The: VI, 91.
      Soldier's Dream, The: VII, 170.

  Captain Morgan at Maracaibo: V, 365.

  Capture of Vincennes, The: VI, 428.

  CARROLL, LEWIS.
    Selections: Mock Turtle's Story, The: III, 3.
      Queen Alice: III, 23.
      Walrus and the Carpenter, The: III, 36.

  CARY, ALICE.
    Biography: IV, 116.
    Selection: Pictures of Memory: IV, 127.

  CARY, PHOEBE.
    Biography: IV, 116.
    Selection: Nearer Home: IV, 126.

  Casabianca: VIII, 313.

  Cat and the Chestnuts, The: I, 142.

  CERVANTES. (Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra.)
    Selection: Don Quixote: VII, 431.

  Charge of the Light Brigade, The: VII, 147.

  Chambered Nautilus, The: IX, 454.

  Character, Influence of Reading in Formation of: X, 88.
      The Fox, the Wolf and the Horse: I, 377.

    Independence, Equality of Man:--
      The Village Blacksmith: IV, 86.
      For A' That and A' That: VII, 149.

    Courage and Bravery:--
      The Boy and the Nettle: I, 65.
      The Mice and the Cat: I, 197.
      Roland at Roncesvalles: III, 460.
      Cid Campeador: IV, 9.
      Ulysses: IV, 398.
      Horatius: VI, 1.

    Flattery as a Vice:--
      The Fox and the Crow: I, 64.
      The Spider and the Fly: III, 19.
      My Mother's Picture: VII, 335.

    Patience and Gentleness:--
      The Wind and the Sun: I, 95.
      Cinderella: I, 224.
      Rab and His Friends: VI, 99.

    Contentment, Hopefulness:--
      The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse: I, 199.
      The Pea Blossom: I, 205.
      The Flax: I, 378.

  Character, The Building of: X, 85.

  Chaucer, Geoffrey: IX, 201.

  Chevy-Chase: IV, 312.

  CHILD, L. MARIA.
    Selection: Who Stole the Bird's Nest?: II, 399.

  Childhood: VI, 124.

  Children's Books of the Past, Some. See Some Children's Books
     of the Past.

  Child's Thought of God, A: VII, 418.

  Child's World, The: II, 66.

  Chimera, The: II, 173.

  Christmas Carol, A: VI, 244.

  Christmas in Old Time: VI, 356.

  Cid Campeador: IV, 9.

  Cinderella: I, 224.

  CLARK, GEORGE ROGERS.
    Biography: VI, 422.
    Selection: The Capture of Vincennes: VI, 428.

  Classification of Masterpieces, Graphic: X, 12.

  CLEVELAND, HENRY R.
    Selection: Henry Hudson's Fourth Voyage: V, 254.

  Close Reading or Study: X, 224.

  Cloud, The: VII, 257.

  Cock and the Horses, The: I, 146.

  COE, EDWIN D.
    Selections: Black Hawk Tragedy, The: VII, 58.
      Reminiscences of a Pioneer: V, 340.

  COLERIDGE, SAMUEL TAYLOR.
    Selection: The Rime of the Ancient Mariner: VII, 29.

  COLLINS, WILLIAM.
    Selection: How Sleep the Brave: VII, 151.

  Comic Songs, On. See On Comic Songs.

  Contrast, A: II, 42.

  COOPER, JAMES FENIMORE.
    Selection: An Exciting Canoe Race: VII, 79.

  Correlation of Journeys with the School: X, 345.
    Reading: X, 315, 348.
    Language: X, 345, 349.
    Nature Study: X, 380.
    Geography and History: X, 400.
    High School: X, 425.

  Cortés, The Retreat of. See Retreat of Cortés, The.

  Cotters Saturday Night, The: VIII, 319.

  Country Squire, The: VI, 474.

  Cow, The: I, 106.

  COWPER, WILLIAM.
    Biography: VII, 331.
    Selections: Mercy to Animals: I, 413.
      My Mother's Picture: VII, 335.

  CREASY, E. S.
    Selections: Battle of Hastings, The: IX, 330.
      Battle of Saratoga, The: IX, 176.

  Creation, Stories of the. See Stories of the Creation.

  CROCKETT, DAVID.
    Biography: VIII, 29.
    Selections: David Crockett in the Creek War: VIII, 37.
      Fiddling Parson, The: V, 440.
      Knock-Out, The: VI, 471.

  Cubes of Truth, The: VII, 406.

  CUMMING, ROUALEYN GORDON.
    Selection: Elephant Hunting: VI, 385.

  Cupid and Psyche: III, 365.

  D

  Daffodils, The: VII, 1.

  Darning-Needle, The: II, 463.

  David: IV, 274.

  David Crockett in the Creek War: VIII, 37.

  Death of Balder, The: II, 99.

  Death of Cæsar, The: IX, 126.

  Death of Cæsar, The: IX, 143.

  Death of Hector, The: IV, 364.

  Definition of a Gentleman: IV, 170.

  DEFOE, DANIEL.
    Selection: Robinson Crusoe: III, 45.

  DEKKER, THOMAS.
    Selection: Lullaby: I, 96.

  DE QUINCEY, THOMAS.
    Selection: Joan of Arc: IV, 225.

  Descent into the Maelstrom, A: VIII, 95.

  Destruction of Sennacherib, The: VI, 141.

  DICKENS, CHARLES.
    Biography: VI, 232.
    Selections: Alfred the Great: IV, 260.
      Christmas Carol, A: VI, 244.
      Pickwick and Sam Weller: IX, 76.

  DIMOND, WILLIAM.
    Selection: The Mariner's Dream: III, 95.

  Discontented Stonecutter, The: II, 12.

  Discreet Hans: II, 15.

  Dissensions at King Arthur's Court: V, 232.

  Dissertation upon Roast Pig, A: IX, 56.

  DOBELL, SYDNEY.
    Selection: How's My Boy?: VII, 169.

  Dog and his Shadow, The: I, 63.

  Dog in the Manger, The: I, 134.

  Dog of Flanders, A: IV, 93.

  Don Quixote: VII, 431.

  DOUGLAS, WILLIAM.
    Selection: Annie Laurie: VI, 119.

  DRAKE, JOSEPH RODMAN.
    Selection: The American Flag: V, 396.

  DRAMA.
    The Tempest: VIII, 364.
    The Death of Cæsar: IX, 143.

  Drama, Definition and Study of: X, 325.

  Dramatic Poetry, Definition of: X, 339.

  DRAYTON, MICHAEL.
    Selection: The Ballad of Agincourt: V, 95.

  Dream Children: A Revery: VIII, 335.

  Drummer, The: I, 303.

  DU CHAILLU, PAUL.
    Selection: A Gorilla Hunt: VII, 247.

  Duel, The: I, 384.

  DUFFERIN, LADY.
    Selection: Katey's Letter: IV, 470.

  E

  Echo: III, 286.

  Education, Forces in: X, 3.

  Elegy on the Death of a Mad Dog: IV, 57.

  Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard: VI, 360.

  Elephant Hunting: VI, 385.

  ELIOT, GEORGE.
    Selection: Tom and Maggie Tulliver: VII, 186.

  Emotional Power in Fiction: X, 176.

  Enchanted Stag, The: I, 341.

  English Robin, The: II, 214.

  English Writers, Handy Table of: X, 469.

  Epic Poetry, Definition of: X, 331.

  Escape from Prison, The: IV, 130.

  Essay, Definition and Study of the: X, 322, 431.

  ESSAYS.
    Some Children's Books of the Past: V, 101.
    Childhood: VI, 124.
    Poor Richard's Almanac: VI, 407.
    Cubes of Truth: VII, 406.
    The Alhambra: VIII, 153.
    Dream Children: VIII, 335.
    The Impeachment of Warren Hastings: IX, 32.
    A Dissertation upon Roast Pig: IX, 56.
    The Praise of Chimney Sweepers: IX, 66.
    Of Expense: IX, 397.
    Of Studies: IX, 400.
    Modestine: IX, 403.

  Esther, The Story of: II, 448.

  Exciting Canoe Race, An: VII, 79.

  Expense, Of: IX, 397.

  F

  FABLES.
    The Boys and the Frogs: I, 63.
    The Dog and His Shadow: I, 63.
    The Fox and the Crow: I, 64.
    The Ass in the Lion's Skin: I, 65.
    The Boy and the Nettle: I, 65.
    The Frog Who Wished to Be as Big as an Ox: I, 66.
    The Gnat and the Bull: I, 70.
    The Hare and the Tortoise: I, 71.
    The Fox and the Stork: I, 73.
    The Lion and the Mouse: I, 75.
    The Old Man and His Sons: I, 78.
    The Shepherd Boy and the Wolves: I, 92.
    The Wind and the Sun: I, 95.
    The Wolf and the Crane: I, 96.
    The Two Travelers: I, 109.
    The Two Travelers and the Oyster: I, 111.
    The Lark and Her Young Ones: I, 131.
    The Goose That Laid the Golden Eggs: I, 173.
    The Dog in the Manger: I, 134.
    The Fox and the Grapes: I, 135.
    The Cat and the Chestnuts: I, 142.
    The Cock and the Horses: I, 146.
    The Bat and the Two Weasels: I, 154.
    The Mice and the Cat: I, 197.
    The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse: I, 199.
    The Lion, the Fox and the Ass: I, 223.
    Industry and Sloth: I, 300.
    The Brother and Sister: I, 410.
    The Wolf and the Lamb: I, 455.
    Æsop: II, 1.
    Minerva and the Owl: II, 7.
    The Falcon and the Partridge: II, 6.
    The Sparrow and the Eagle: II, 8.
    The Old Man and Death: II, 9.

  Fairies, The: I, 405.

  Fairies of the Caldon-Low, The: II, 395.

  Fairy Bread: I, 198.

  FAIRY LORE AND FOLK LORE.
    Little Red Riding Hood: I, 79.
    Tom Thumb: I, 84.
    The Little Old Woman and Her Pig: I, 97.
    Silver-Locks and the Three Bears: I, 101.
    The Ladybird and the Fly: I, 107.
    Hop-O'-My-Thumb: I, 112.
    The Three Little Pigs: I, 136.
    The Hardy Tin Soldier: I, 148.
    Jack and the Beanstalk: I, 156.
    Jack the Giant-Killer: I, 174.
    The Pea Blossom: I, 205.
    Hansel and Grethel: I, 210.
    Cinderella: I, 224.
    The Three Tasks: I, 247.
    The Snow Maiden: I, 257.
    The Twin Brothers: I, 264.
    The Drummer: I, 303.
    Beauty and the Beast: I, 318.
    The Enchanted Stag: I, 341.
    The Golden Bird: I, 352.
    The Flax: I, 378.
    "Something": I, 395.
    The Fairies: I, 405.
    The Ugly Duckling: I, 414.
    Whittington and His Cat: I, 442.
    Bluebeard: II, 22.
    Rumpelstiltzkin: II, 33.
    Mirror of Matsuyana, II, 36.
    The Fir Tree: II, 68.
    The Snow Queen: II, 124.
    Tom, The Water Baby: II, 215.
    The Fairies of the Caldon-Low: II, 395.
    The Darning-Needle: II, 463.
    Why the Sea Is Salt: II, 484.
    Origin of the Opal: II, 480.
    What the Old Man Does Is Always Right: II, 387.
    Holger Danske: II, 377.
    The King and the Golden River: II, 405.
    The Leprecaun: III, 33.
    The Walrus and the Carpenter: III, 36.
    The Pied Piper of Hamelin: III, 384.
    The Forsaken Merman: VII, 180.
    See MYTHS and LEGENDARY HEROES.

  Faithless Sally Brown: III, 92.

  Falcon and the Partridge, The: II, 6.

  Fall of the Alamo, The: VIII, 141.

  Family of Michael Arout, The: VII, 314.

  Farewell, A: III, 22.

  Fate of the Indians, The: IX, 466.

  Father and Son: X, 107.

  FICTION. See ADVENTURE; FABLES; FAIRY LORE AND FOLK LORE; NARRATIVE
    POEMS; NOVELS; STORIES.

  Fiction, How to Read: X, 143.

  Fiddling Parson, The: V, 440.

  FIELD, EUGENE.
    Biography: I, 242.
    Selections: Duel, The: I, 384.
      Lady Button-Eyes: I, 366.
      Little Blue Pigeon: I, 133.
      Norse Lullaby: I, 246.
      Rock-a-By-Lady, The: I, 94.
      Seein' Things: I, 240.
      Shuffle-Shoon and Amber-Locks: II, 121.
      Wynken, Blynken, and Nod: I, 262.

  Figures of Speech: X, 256.

  First Snowfall, The: II, 403.

  Fir Tree, The: II, 68.

  Flax, The: I, 378.

  Florence Nightingale: IX, 13.

  FOLK LORE. See FAIRY LORE AND FOLK LORE.

  FOLLEN, MRS. ELIZA LEE.
    Selection: Stop, Stop, Pretty Water: I, 317.

  Footsteps of Angels: IV, 82.

  For A' That and A' That: VII, 149.

  Forces in Education: X, 3.

  Foreign Children: I, 351.

  Foreign Lands: I, 130.

  Forsaken Merman, The: VII, 180.

  FOSTER, STEPHEN COLLINS.
    Selection: My Old Kentucky Home: VII, 179.

  Four Ducks on a Pond: VI, 98.

  Fox and the Crow, The: I, 64.

  Fox and the Grapes, The: I, 135.

  Fox and the Stork, The: I, 73.

  Fox, the Wolf, and the Horse, The: I, 377.

  FRANKLIN, BENJAMIN.
    Selections: Braddock's Defeat: V, 379.
      Poor Richard's Almanac: VI, 407.

  Frithiof the Bold: III, 394.

  Frog Who Wished to be as Big as an Ox, The: I, 66.

  FROISSART, JEAN.
    Selection: The Battle of Cressy: IX, 161.

  From a Railway Carriage: I, 198.

  FROUDE, JAMES ANTHONY.
    Selection: Julius Cæsar: IX, 155.

  G

  Geography, Analysis and Classification of Selections Correlated
     with: X, 402.

  Geography, The Teaching of: X, 400.

  Geraint and Enid: V, 148.

  Gettysburg Address, The: IX, 321.

  GILBERT, W. S.
    Selection: The Yarn of the "Nancy Bell": IV, 466.

  Gnat and the Bull, The: I, 70.

  Gold-Bug, The: IX, 232.

  Golden Bird, The: I, 352.

  Golden Touch, The: II, 43.

  GOLDSMITH, OLIVER.
    Selection: Elegy on the Death of a Mad Dog: IV, 57.

  Goose That Laid the Golden Eggs, The: I, 173.

  Gorilla Hunt, A: VII, 247.

  Governor and the Notary, The: VII, 20.

  Graphic Classification of Masterpieces: X, 12.

  GRAY, THOMAS.
    Selection: Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard: VI, 360.

  GRIFFIN, GERALD.
    Selection: Limestone Broth: VI, 467.

  GRIMM, JAKOB AND WILHELM.
    Selections: Discreet Hans: II, 15.
      Drummer, The: I, 303.
      Enchanted Stag, The: I, 341.
      Golden Bird, The: I, 352.
      Hansel and Grethel: I, 210
      Ladybird and the Fly, The: I, 107.
      Three Tasks, The: I, 247.
      Twin Brothers, The: I, 264.
      Rumpelstiltzken: II, 33.

  Gulliver's Travels: V, 6.

  H

  HALLECK, FITZ-GREENE.
    Selection: Marco Bozzaris: VIII, 90.

  Handy Tables of American Writers: X, 473.

  Handy Tables of English Writers: X, 469.

  Hansel and Grethel: I, 210.

  Hardy Tin Soldier, The: I, 148.

  Hare and the Tortoise, The: I, 71.

  HAWTHORNE, NATHANIEL.
    Biography: IV, 180.
    Selections: Boston Massacre, The: IV, 217.
      Chimera, The: II, 173.
      Golden Touch, The: II, 43.
      Hutchinson Mob, The: IV, 208.
      Pine-Tree Shillings, The: IV, 192.
      Sunken Treasure, The: IV, 199.

  HAY, JOHN.
    Selection: Little Breeches: IV, 462.

  Heart of Bruce, The: V, 316.

  HEMANS, FELICIA BROWNE.
    Selections: Bernardo del Carpio: IV, 270.
      Casabianca: VIII, 313.
      Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers in New England: IV, 197.

  HENRY, PATRICK.
    Selection: A Call to Arms: IX, 475.

  HEROES. See LEGENDARY HEROES.

  Hervé Riel: VIII, 168.

  High School, Correlation of Journeys with: X, 425.

  HISTORY.
    The Story of Joseph: I, 456.
    The Hutchinson Mob: IV, 208.
    The Boston Massacre: IV, 217.
    Joan of Arc: IV, 226.
    Alfred the Great: IV, 260.
    Henry Hudson's Fourth Voyage: V, 254.
    The Arickara Indians: IV, 472.
    The Rise of Robert Bruce: V, 278.
    The Buccaneers: V, 359.
    Captain Morgan at Maracaibo: V, 365.
    Braddock's Defeat: V, 379.
    The Capture of Vincennes: VI, 428.
    The Black Hawk Tragedy: VII, 58.
    The Retreat of Cortés: VIII, 63.
    The Battle of Thermopylæ: VIII, 81.
    Père Marquette: VIII, 121.
    The Fall of the Alamo: VIII, 141.
    The Battle of Trafalgar: VIII, 284.
    The Impeachment of Warren Hastings: IX, 32.
    The Battle of Cressy: IX, 161.
    The Battle of Saratoga: IX, 176.
    The Battle of Hastings: IX, 330.

  History, Analysis and Classification of Selections Correlated with:
     X, 403-410.

  History, The Teaching of: X, 400.

  Holger Danske: II, 377.

  HOLMES, OLIVER WENDELL.
    Biography: VII, 398.
    Selections: The Cubes of Truth: VII, 406.
      The Chambered Nautilus: IX, 454.

  Holy Grail, The: V, 207.

  HOMER.
    Selection: The Death of Hector: IV, 364.

  HOOD, THOMAS.
    Selections: Faithless Sally Brown: III, 92.
      To My Infant Son: VI, 478.

  Hop-O'-My-Thumb: I, 112.

  Horatius: VI, 1.

  Horse and the Stag, The: I, 338.

  HOWE, JULIA WARD.
    Selection: Battle Hymn of the Republic: V, 399.

  HOWITT, MARY.
    Selections: Fairies of the Caldon-Low, The: II, 395.
      Spider and the Fly, The: III, 19.
      Why the Sea Is Salt: II, 484.

  How Sleep the Brave: VII, 151.

  How's My Boy?: VII, 169.

  How the Wolf Was Bound: II, 91.

  How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to Aix: V, 335.

  How They Took the Gold-Train: VIII, 180.

  How to Read Aloud: X, 311.

  How to Read Fiction: X, 143.

  How to Read Poetry: X, 272.

  How to Read Stories: X, 145.

  Hudson's Fourth Voyage: V, 254.

  HUGHES, THOMAS.
    Selection: Tom Brown at Rugby: V, 469.

  HUMOR. See WIT AND HUMOR.

  HUNT, LEIGH.
    Selection: Abou Ben Adhem: IX, 11.

  Hutchinson Mob, The: IV, 208.

  I

  Imitation of Christ: VI, 134.

  Impeachment of Warren Hastings, The: IX, 32.

  Inchcape Rock, The: V, 465.

  Incident of the French Camp: IV, 174.

  Industry and Sloth: I, 300.

  Infant Joy: II, 10.

  INGELOW, JEAN.
    Selection: Seven Times One: II, 119.

  Interpretations. See STUDIES.

  In Time's Swing: II, 481.

  IRVING, WASHINGTON.
    Biography: VIII, 216.
    Selections: Alhambra, The: VIII, 153.
      Arickara Indians, The: IV, 472.
      Governor and the Notary, The: VII, 20.
      Knickerbocker History of New York, The: VIII, 224.

  J

  Jack and the Beanstalk: I, 156.

  Jack the Giant-Killer: I, 174.

  JEROME, JEROME K.
    Selections: On Comic Songs: V, 455.
      We Plan a River Trip: V, 443.

  Joan of Arc: IV, 226.

  Johnson, Samuel, The Life of: IX, 216.

  John's Pumpkin: III, 1.

  Joseph, The Story of: I, 456.

  Julius Cæsar: IX, 155.

  K

  Katey's Letter: IV, 470.

  KEATS, JOHN.
    Biography: IX, 457.
    Selection: Ode on a Grecian Urn: IX, 462.

  Keepsake Mill: I, 349.

  KEMPIS, THOMAS À.
    Selection: From Imitation of Christ: VI, 134.

  KEY, FRANCIS SCOTT.
    Selection: Star-Spangled Banner, The: VII, 167.

  King Arthur. See Arthur, King.

  King of the Golden River, The: II, 405.

  KINGSLEY, CHARLES.
    Selections: A Farewell: III, 22.
      How They Took the Gold-Train: VIII, 180.
      Sands of Dee, The: I, 412.
      Three Fishers, The: VII, 343.
      Tom, the Water Baby: II, 215.

  KINNEY, COATES.
    Selection: Rain on the Roof: IV, 7.

  KIPLING, RUDYARD.
    Selections: Recessional, The: VII, 164.
      Salmon Fishing: VII, 285.

  Knickerbocker History of New York, The: VIII, 224.

  Knock-Out, The: VI, 471.

  KRAUT, MARY HANNAH.
    Selection: Little Brown Hands: I, 441.

  KRUMMACHER.
    Selection: The Moss Rose: VI, 98.

  L

  Ladybird and the Fly, The: I, 107.

  Lady Button-Eyes: I, 366.

  LAMB, CHARLES.
    Biography: VIII, 328.
    Selections: Dissertation upon Roast Pig, A: IX, 56.
      Dream Children: A Revery: VIII, 335.
      Praise of Chimney Sweepers, The: IX, 66.
      Tempest, The: VIII, 348.

  LAMB, MARY.
    Biography: VIII, 328.
    Selection: The Tempest: VIII, 348.

  Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers in New England: IV, 197.

  Land of Counterpane, The: I, 144.

  Language, Analysis and Classification of Selections for the Study of:
    X, 354, 378.

  Language, Correlation of Journeys with Study of: X, 345, 349.

  Language, The Teaching of: X, 349.

  LARCOM, LUCY.
    Selections: Brown Thrush, The: I, 147.
      In Time's Swing: II, 481.

  Lark and Her Young Ones, The: I, 131.

  LATTO, T. C.
    Selection: The Blind Lassie: VI, 120.

  Lead, Kindly Light: V, 110.

  LEAR, EDWARD.
    Selection: The Owl and the Pussy-Cat: I, 339.

  LEGENDARY HEROES.
    Beowulf and Grendel: III, 350.
    Frithiof the Bold: III, 394.
    The Story of Siegfried: III, 410.
    Ulysses: IV, 398.
    King Arthur: V, 113.
    Balin and Balan: V, 130.
    Geraint and Enid: V, 148.
    The Holy Grail: V, 207.
    Dissensions at King Arthur's Court: V, 232.
    The Passing of Arthur: V, 237.
    Horatius: VI, 1.
    Sohrab and Rustem: VI, 157.
    Sohrab and Rustum: VI, 173.

  Leprecaun, The: III. 33.

  Lesson and the Author's Purpose, in Fiction, The: X, 170.

  Let Something Good Be Said: V, 111.

  Life of Samuel Johnson, The: IX, 216.

  Limestone Broth: VI, 467.

  LINCOLN, ABRAHAM.
    Selection: The Gettysburg Address: IX, 321.

  Lincoln, Abraham. See Abraham Lincoln.

  Lion and The Missionary, The: VI, 93.

  Lion and the Mouse, The: I, 75.

  Lion, the Fox and the Ass, The: I, 223.

  Literature and Its Forms: X, 317.

  Literature, Different Kinds of: X, 143.

  Little Birdie: I, 142.

  Little Blue Pigeon: I, 133.

  Little Breeches: IV, 462.

  Little Brown Hands: I, 441.

  Little Giffin of Tennessee: IV, 461.

  Little Old Woman and Her Pig, The: I, 97.

  Little Red Riding-Hood: I, 79.

  LIVINGSTONE, DAVID.
    Selection: The Lion and the Missionary: VI, 93.

  Lochinvar: III, 432.

  LONGFELLOW, HENRY WADSWORTH.
    Biography: IV, 62.
    Selections: Footsteps of Angels: IV, 82.
      Reaper and the Flowers, The: I, 410.
      Skeleton in Armor, The: V, 327.
      Village Blacksmith, The: IV, 86.
      Wreck of the Hesperus, The: IV, 89.

  Looking Forward: I, 106.

  Lord Ullin's Daughter: VI, 23.

  Lost Child, The: VII, 409.

  LOVER, SAMUEL.
    Selection: Widow Machree: VI, 464.

  LOWELL, JAMES RUSSELL.
    Biography: VII, 411.
    Selections: First Snowfall, The: II, 403.
      Lost Child, The: VII, 409.
      To H. W. L.: IV, 84.

  LULLABIES.
    The Rock-a-By Lady: I, 94.
    Little Blue Pigeon: I, 133.
    Sleep, Baby, Sleep: I, 204.
    Old Gaelic Lullaby: I, 203.
    Norse Lullaby: I, 246.
    Wynken, Blynken, and Nod: I, 262.
    Lady Button-Eyes: I, 366.
    Lullaby: I, 96, II, 32.

  Lyric Poetry, Definition of: X, 333.

  LYRICS.
    A Thought: I, 66.
    The Swing: I, 67.
    The Sun's Travels: I, 68.
    Singing: I, 88.
    Looking Forward: I, 106.
    The Cow: I, 106.
    Rain: I, 110.
    System: I, 111.
    My Bed Is a Boat: I, 126.
    Foreign Lands: I, 130.
    At the Seaside: I, 129.
    The Land of Counterpane: I, 144.
    Bed in Summer: I, 173.
    Block City: I, 196.
    From a Railway Carriage: I, 198
    Fairy Bread: I, 198.
    Seein' Things: I, 240.
    Whole Duty of Children: I, 301.
    The Tree: I, 301.
    Young Night Thought: I, 302.
    Where Go the Boats?: I, 256.
    Stop, Stop, Pretty Water: I, 317.
    Time to Rise: I, 340.
    Keepsake Mill: I, 349.
    Foreign Children: I, 351.
    The Duel: I, 384.
    Autumn Fires: I, 394.
    The Reaper and the Flowers: I, 410.
    The Wind: I, 440.
    Little Brown Hands: I, 441.
    Infant Joy: II, 10.
    The Baby: II, 11.
    Poppyland Express: II, 21.
    A Contrast: II, 42.
    The Child's World: II, 66.
    Afterwhile: II, 123.
    Windy Nights: II, 123.
    Shuffle-Shoon and Amber-Locks: II, 121.
    Picture-Books in Winter: II, 87.
    Seven Times One: II, 119.
    The First Snowfall: II, 403.
    In Time's Swing: II, 481.
    A Farewell: III, 22.
    Night: III, 431.
    Better Than Gold: IV, 1.
    The Barefoot Boy: IV, 3.
    Rain on the Roof: IV, 7.
    Mother's Way: IV, 58.
    Footsteps of Angels: IV, 82.
    The Village Blacksmith: IV, 86.
    Pictures of Memory: IV, 127.
    Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers in New England: IV, 197.
    Away: IV, 460.
    Lead, Kindly Light: V, 110.
    Let Something Good be Said: V, 111.
    Boyhood: VI, 122.
    The Rainbow: VI, 91.
    Four Ducks on a Pond: VI, 98.
    The Blind Lassie: VI, 120.
    Home They Brought Her Warrior Dead: VI, 231.
    Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard: VI, 360.
    The Daffodils: VII, 1.
    The Recessional: VII, 164.
    The Cloud: VII, 257.
    My Mother's Picture: VII, 335.
    Annabel Lee: VII, 341.
    The Lost Child: VII, 409.
    A Child's Thought of God: VII, 418.
    Robert of Lincoln: IX, 444.
    The Chambered Nautilus: IX, 454.

  M

  MACAULAY, THOMAS BABINGTON.
    Selections: Battle of Ivry: VIII, 76.
      Horatius: VI, 1.
      Impeachment of Warren Hastings, The: IX, 32.

  MCCALEB, ANNA.
    Adaptations: Atalanta's Race: I, 386.
      Baucis and Philemon: I, 431.
      Cupid and Psyche: III, 365.
      Death of Balder, The: II, 99.
      How the Wolf Was Bound: II, 91.
      Punishment of Loki, The: II, 111.
      Queen of the Underworld, The: II, 468.
      Story of Phaethon, The: II, 245.
      Wonderful Gifts, The: I, 368.
    Selections: Battle of Thermopylæ, The: VIII, 81.
      Browning, Elizabeth Barrett: VII, 419.
      Cary, Alice and Phoebe: IV, 116.
      Dickens, Charles: VI, 232.
      Nightingale, Florence: IX, 13.
      Queen Victoria: VII, 152.

  MACDONALD, GEORGE.
    Selection: The Baby: II, 11.

  MCMASTER, GUY HUMPHREY.
    Selection: The Old Continentals: VII, 175.

  Make Way for Liberty: VII, 172.

  MALORY, SIR THOMAS.
    Selection: (Abridgment of) The Holy Grail: V, 207.

  Mandeville, The Travels of Sir John: IX, 207.

  Marching Song: I, 155.

  Marco Bozzaris: VIII, 90.

  Mariner's Dream, The: III, 95.

  Marquette, Père. See Père Marquette.

  MARVEL, IK. See MITCHELL, DONALD G.

  Masterpieces, Graphic Classification of: X, 12.

  Memorizing: X, 128.

  Mercy to Animals: I, 413.

  Metaphor, The: X, 264.

  Method and Style of the Authors, in Fiction: X, 174.

  Metonymy: X, 265.

  Mice and the Cat, The: I, 197.

  Milkmaid, The: II, 374.

  Minerva and the Owl: II, 7.

  Mirror of Matsuyana, The: II, 36.

  MITCHELL, DONALD G.
    Selection: Childhood: VI, 124.

  Mock Turtle's Story, The: III, 3.

  Modern Belle, The: VI, 463.

  Modestine: IX, 403.

  MONTGOMERY, JAMES.
    Selection: Make Way for Liberty: VII, 172.

  MOORE, CLEMENT C.
    Selection: A Visit from Saint Nicholas: II, 202.

  MOORE, THOMAS.
    Selections: Potato, The: II, 467.
      Those Evening Bells: VII, 340.

  Moral Instruction: X, 126.

  Moss Rose, The: VI, 98.

  Mother's Way: IV, 58.

  Munchausen, Baron: V, 403.

  My Bed Is a Boat: I, 126.

  My Heart Leaps Up: IV, 2.

  My Mother's Picture: VII, 335.

  My Old Kentucky Home: VII, 179.

  MYTHS.
    The Wonderful Gifts: I, 368.
    Atalanta's Race: I, 386.
    Baucis and Philemon: I, 431.
    The Golden Touch: II, 43.
    How the Wolf Was Bound: II, 91.
    The Death of Balder: II, 99.
    The Punishment of Loki: II, 111.
    The Chimera: II, 173.
    The Story of Phaethon: II, 206.
    The Queen of the Underworld: II, 468.
    Cupid and Psyche: III, 365.
    Stories of the Creation: IV, 159.

  N

  NARRATIVE POEMS.
    The Sands of Dee: I, 412.
    A Visit from Saint Nicholas: II, 202.
    The Spider and the Fly: III, 19.
    Beth Gelert: III, 42.
    The Mariner's Dream: III, 95.
    Sheridan's Ride: IV, 223.
    Burial of Moses: IV, 266.
    Bernardo del Carpio: IV, 270.
    Little Giffin of Tennessee: IV, 461.
    Little Breeches: IV, 462.
    Geraint and Enid: V, 148.
    The Passing of Arthur: V, 237.
    Bruce and the Spider: V, 314.
    The Skeleton in Armor: V, 327.
    How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to Aix: V, 335.
    Horatius: VI, 1.
    Sohrab and Rustum: VI, 173.
    The Rime of the Ancient Mariner: VII, 29.
    How's My Boy?: VII, 169.
    The Soldier's Dream: VII, 170.
    The Forsaken Merman: VII, 180.
    The Reaper's Dream: VII, 345.
    Battle of Ivry: VIII, 76.
    The Battle of Waterloo: VIII, 176.
    Casabianca: VIII, 313.
    The Romance of the Swan's Nest: VIII, 315.
    The Cotter's Saturday Night: VIII, 319.
    Abou Ben Adhem: IX, 11.
    Pippa Passes: IX, 293.
    See BALLADS.

  NATURE.
    The Brown Thrush: I, 147.
    Mercy to Animals: I, 413.
    The English Robin: II, 214.
    Who Stole the Bird's Nest?: II, 399.
    The Lion and the Missionary: VI, 93.
    The Moss Rose: VI, 98.
    Elephant Hunting: VI, 385.
    Some Clever Monkeys: VI, 402.
    The Petrified Fern: VII, 77.
    The Buffalo: VII, 96.
    A Gorilla Hunt: VII, 247.
    Brute Neighbors: VII, 260.
    The Pond in Winter: VII, 280.
    Salmon Fishing: VII, 285.
    Winter Animals: VII, 293.
    Owls: IX, 229.
    Robert of Lincoln: IX, 444.

  Nature Study: X, 380.

  Nature Study, Analysis and Classification of Selections related to:
    X, 381-393.

  Nearer Home: IV, 126.

  NEWMAN, JOHN HENRY (Cardinal).
    Selections: Definition of a Gentleman: IV, 170.
      Lead, Kindly Light: V, 110.

  Night: III, 431.

  NIGHTINGALE, FLORENCE.
    Biography: IX, 13.

  Norse Lullaby: I, 246.

  NOVELS (Selections from).
    Cast Up by the Sea:--
      The Escape from Prison: IV, 130.
    Fabiola:--
      Pancratius: IV, 245.
    Ivanhoe:--
      The Attack on the Castle: IV, 322.
      The Tournament: VI, 38.
    Tom Brown's School Days:--
      Tom Brown at Rugby: V, 469.
    An Attic Philosopher in Paris:--
      The Poet and the Peasant: VI, 206.
      The Family of Michael Arout: VII, 314.
    Kidnapped:--
      The Shipwreck: VI, 371.
    The Last of the Mohicans:--
      An Exciting Canoe Race: VII, 79.
    The Mill on the Floss:--
      Tom and Maggie Tulliver: VII, 186.
    Treasure Island:--
      The Recovery of the Hispaniola: VII, 352.
    Don Quixote:--
      Don Quixote Prepares to Set Out on His Adventures: VII, 433.
      The Adventure of the Windmills: VII, 438.
      Mambrino's Helmet: VII, 441.
      Don Quixote's Encounter with the Lions: VII, 448.
      The Adventure of the Enchanted Bark: VII, 459.
      The Adventure of the Wooden Horse: VII, 467.
      The Story of the Lashes: VII, 480.
    Westward Ho!:--
      How They Took the Gold-Train: VIII, 180.
    Pickwick Papers:--
      Mr. Pickwick and Sam Weller: IX, 76.

  NURSERY RHYMES: I, 3.

  Nursery Rhymes, Analysis of: X, 18.

  O

  ODES.
    To H. W. L.: IV, 84.
    To the Fringed Gentian: VII, 4.
    To a Mouse: VII, 5.
    To a Mountain Daisy: VII, 8.
    Ode to a Skylark: VII, 275.
    To a Waterfowl: VII, 395.
    Ode on a Grecian Urn: IX, 462.

  Ode on a Grecian Urn: IX, 462.

  Ode to a Skylark: VII, 275.

  Old Continentals, The: VII, 175.

  Old Gaelic Lullaby: I, 203.

  Old Man and Death, The: II, 9.

  Old Man and His Sons, The: I, 78.

  Old Oaken Bucket, The: VII, 11.

  On Comic Songs: V, 455.

  On the Receipt of My Mother's Picture: VII, 331.

  Oration, Definition and Study of: X, 324.

  Oration, Illustrative Study of "A Call to Arms," as a type of: IX, 481.
    The Fate of the Indians: IX, 466.
    A Call to Arms: IX, 475.

  Origin of the Opal: II, 480.

  Owl and the Pussy-Cat, The: I, 339.

  Owls: IX, 229.

  P

  PALMER, J. W.
    Selection: "Stonewall" Jackson's Way: V, 400.

  Pancratius: IV, 245.

  PARKMAN, FRANCIS.
    Selection: The Buffalo: VII, 96.

  Passing of Arthur, The: V, 237.

  PATRIOTIC POEMS.
    The American Flag: V, 396.
    "Stonewall" Jackson's Way: V, 400.
    Bannockburn: VII, 15.
    The Charge of the Light Brigade: VII, 147.
    Breathes There the Man: VII, 151.
    For A' That and A' That: VII, 149.
    Make Way for Liberty: VII, 172.
    The Old Continentals: VII, 175.
    The Picket Guard: VII, 177.
    Marco Bozzaris: VIII, 90.

  PAYNE, JOHN HOWARD.
    Biography: VI, 221.
    Selection: Home, Sweet Home: VI, 224.

  Pea Blossom, The: I, 205.

  Père Marquette: VIII, 121.

  PERRAULT, CHARLES.
    Adaptations from Cinderella: I, 224.
      Hop-O'-My-Thumb: I, 112.
      Little Red Riding-Hood: I, 79.

  Personification: X, 266.

  Persons, in Fiction, Study of: X, 156.

  Petrified Fern, The: VII, 77.

  Phaethon, The Story of: II, 206.

  Picket-Guard, The: VII, 177.

  Pickwick and Sam Weller: IX, 76.

  Picture Books in Winter: II, 87.

  Pictures and Their Use: X, 36.

  Pictures and Their Value in Literature: X, 44.

  Pictures in Journeys, On the Use of: X, 48.

  Pictures of Memory: IV, 127.

  Pied Piper of Hamelin, The: III, 384.

  Pilgrim's Progress, The: IV, 423.

  Pine-Tree Shillings, The: IV, 192.

  Pippa Passes: IX, 293.

  Plan and Contents of Journeys: X, 7.

  Plan and Contents of Each Volume: X, 24.

  Plot, in Fiction, Study of: X, 149.

  PLUTARCH.
    Selection: The Death of Cæsar: IX, 126.

  POE, EDGAR ALLAN.
    Selections: Annabel Lee: VII, 341.
      Descent into the Maelstrom, A: VIII, 95.
      Gold-Bug, The: IX, 232.
      Three Sundays in a Week: VI, 453.

  Poet and the Peasant, The: VI, 206.

  POETRY. See BALLADS; DRAMA; LULLABIES; LYRICS; NARRATIVE POEMS; ODES;
    PATRIOTIC POEMS; SONGS; WIT AND HUMOR.

  Poetry, Kinds of: X, 331.

  Poetry, Reading: X, 272.

  Polonius' Advice: V, 112.

  Pond in Winter, The: VII, 280.

  Poor Richard's Almanac: VI, 407.

  POPE, ALEXANDER.
    Selection: The Universal Prayer: IV, 172.

  Poppyland Express, The: II, 21.

  Potato, The: II, 467.

  Praise of Chimney Sweepers, The: IX, 66.

  PRESCOTT, WILLIAM HICKLING.
    Selection: The Retreat of Cortés: VIII, 63.

  PRONUNCIATION OF PROPER NAMES:
    Volume I, 487.
    Volume II, 491.
    Volume III, 487.
    Volume IV, 491.
    Volume V, 497.
    Volume VI, 481.
    Volume VII, 485.
    Volume VIII, 489.
    Volume IX, 489.

  Prose, Kinds of: X, 318.

  Punishment of Loki, The: II, 111.

  Q

  Queen Alice: III, 23.

  Queen of the Underworld, The: II, 468.

  QUEEN VICTORIA. See VICTORIA, QUEEN.

  Quotations, One Hundred Choice: X, 131.

  Rain: I, 110.

  Rainbow, The: VI, 91.

  Rain on the Roof: IV, 7.

  RANDS, W. B.
    Selection: The Child's World: II, 66.

  READ, THOMAS BUCHANAN.
    Selections: Reaper's Dream, The: VII, 345.
      Sheridan's Ride: IV, 223.

  Reading, Correlation of Journeys with Study of: X, 345.

  Reading Aloud: X, 123, 311.

  Reading and the Building of Character: X, 85.

  Reading History: V, 394.

  Reading Poetry: X, 272.

  Reading Shakespeare: VIII, 346.

  Reading Stories: X, 145.

  Reaper and the Flowers, The: I, 410.

  Reaper's Dream, The: VII, 345.

  Recessional, The: VII, 164.

  Recitations and Special Days in School: X, 436.

  Recovery of the Hispaniola, The: VII, 352.

  Reminiscences of a Pioneer: V, 340.

  Retreat of Cortés, The: VIII, 63.

  Riddles: I, 72, 202, 245.

  RILEY, JAMES WHITCOMB.
    Selections: Afterwhile: II, 123.
      Away: IV, 460.
      Let Something Good be Said: V, 111.

  Rime of the Ancient Mariner, The: VII, 29.

  Ringrose and His Buccaneers: VIII, 1.

  RINGROSE, BASIL.
    Selection: Ringrose and His Buccaneers: VIII, 1.

  Rise of Robert Bruce, The: V, 278.

  Robert of Lincoln: IX, 444.

  Robinson Crusoe: III, 45.

  Rock-a-by Lady, The: I, 94.

  Roland at Roncesvalles: III, 460.

  Romance of the Swan's Nest, The: VIII, 315.

  ROOSEVELT, THEODORE.
    Selection: Abraham Lincoln: IX, 324.

  Rumpelstiltzkin: II, 33.

  RUSKIN, JOHN.
    Selection: The King of the Golden River: II, 405.

  Ruth: VI, 143.

  RYAN, FATHER.
    Selections: Better Than Gold: IV, 1.
      Mother's Way: IV, 58.

  S

  Salmon Fishing: VII, 285.

  Sands of Dee, The: I, 412.

  SAXE, JOHN GODFREY.
    Selection: Echo: III, 286.

  Scenes, in Fiction, Study of: X, 162.

  SCOTT, SIR WALTER.
    Biography: VI, 26.
    Selections: Attack on the Castle, The: IV, 322.
      Boat Song: VII, 17.
      Breathes There the Man: VII, 151.
      Christmas in Old Time: VI, 356.
      Lochinvar: III, 432.
      Rise of Robert Bruce, The: V, 278.
      Tournament, The: VI, 38.

  Second Voyage of Sinbad the Sailor, The: III, 340.

  Seein' Things: I, 240.

  SELLON, GRACE E.
    Adaptations: Frithiof the Bold: III, 394.
      Pippa Passes: IX, 293.
      Snow Maiden, The: I, 257.
      Story of Siegfried, The: III, 410.
    Selections: Bryant, William Cullen: VII, 391.
      Hawthorne, Nathaniel: IV, 180.
      Holmes, Oliver Wendell: VII, 398.
      Irving, Washington: VIII, 216.
      Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth: IV, 62.
      Lowell, James Russell: VII, 411.
      Scott, Sir Walter: VI, 26.
      Some Children's Books of the Past: V, 101.
      Whittier, John Greenleaf: VII, 381.

  Seven Times One: II, 119.

  SHAKESPEARE, WILLIAM.
    Biography: VIII, 468.
    Selections: Death of Cæsar, The: IX, 143.
      Polonius' Advice: V, 112.
      Tempest, The: VIII, 364.

  SHEALE, RICHARD.
    Selection: Chevy-Chase: IV, 312.

  SHELLEY, PERCY BYSSHE.
    Selections: Cloud, The: VII, 257.
      Ode to a Skylark: VII, 275.

  Shepherd Boy and the Wolves, The: I, 92.

  Sheridan's Ride: IV, 223.

  Shipwreck, The: VI, 371.

  Shuffle-Shoon and Amber-Locks: II, 121.

  Siegfried, The Story of: III, 410.

  Silver-Locks and the Three Bears: I, 101.

  Simile, The: X, 263.

  Sinbad the Sailor, The Second Voyage of. See Second Voyage of
    Sinbad the Sailor, The.

  Singing: I, 83.

  Sir Roger de Coverley: IX, 371.

  Skeleton in Armor, The: V, 327.

  Sleep, Baby, Sleep: I, 204.

  SMITH, SAMUEL FRANCIS.
    Selection: America: VIII, 60.

  Snow Maiden, The: I, 257.

  Snow Queen, The: II, 124.

  Soldier's Dream, The: VII, 170.

  Some Children's Books of the Past: V, 101.

  Some Clever Monkeys: VI, 402.

  "Something": I, 395.

  Song of the Brook: IV, 60.

  Sonnet, Definition of: X, 337.

  SONGS.
    Singing: I, 83.
    Little Birdie: I, 142.
    Marching Song: I, 155.
    The Owl and The Pussy Cat: I, 339.
    Song of the Brook: IV, 60.
    Battle Hymn of the Republic: V, 399.
    Annie Laurie: VI, 119.
    Sweet and Low: VI, 122.
    The Bugle Song: VI, 133.
    Home, Sweet Home: VI, 221.
    Auld Lang Syne: VI, 228.
    The Old Oaken Bucket: VII, 11.
    Boat Song: VII, 17.
    The Star-Spangled Banner: VII, 167.
    How Sleep the Brave: VII, 151.
    My Old Kentucky Home: VII, 179.
    Those Evening Bells: VII, 340.
    The Three Fishers: VII, 343.
    America: VIII, 60.

  SOUTHEY, ROBERT.
    Selections: Battle of Trafalgar, The: VIII, 284.
      Inchcape Rock, The: V, 465.
      Night: III, 431.

  SOUVESTRE, EMILE.
    Selections: Family of Michael Arout, The: VII, 314.
      Poet and the Peasant, The: VI, 206.

  SPARKS, JARED.
    Selection: Père Marquette: VIII, 121.

  Sparrow and the Eagle, The: II, 8.

  SPENCER, WILLIAM R.
    Selection: Beth Gelert: III, 42.

  Spider and the Fly, The: III, 19.

  SPRAGUE, CHARLES.
    Selection: The Fate of the Indians: IX, 466.

  Star-Spangled Banner, The: VII, 167.

  STARK.
    Selection: The Modern Belle: VI, 463.

  STEVENSON, ROBERT LOUIS.
    Biography: I, 128.
    Selections: At the Seaside: I, 129.
      Autumn Fires: I, 394.
      Bed in Summer: I, 173.
      Block City: I, 196.
      Cow, The: I, 106.
      Fairy Bread: I, 198.
      Foreign Children: I, 351.
      Foreign Lands: I, 130.
      From a Railway Carriage: I, 198.
      Keepsake Mill: I, 349.
      Land of Counterpane, The: I, 144.
      Looking Forward: I, 106.
      Marching Song: I, 155.
      Modestine: IX, 403.
      My Bed Is a Boat: I, 126.
      Picture-Books in Winter: II, 87.
      Rain: I, 110.
      Recovery of the Hispaniola, The: VII, 352.
      Shipwreck, The: VI, 371.
      Singing: I, 83.
      Sun's Travels, The: I, 68.
      Swing, The: I, 67.
      System: I, 111.
      Thought, A: I, 66.
      Time to Rise: I, 340.
      Where Go the Boats?: I, 256.
      Whole Duty of Children: I, 301.
      Wind, The: I, 440.
      Windy Nights: II, 123.
      Young Night Thought: I, 302.

  "Stonewall" Jackson's Way: V, 400.

  Stop, Stop, Pretty Water: I, 317.

  STORIES.
    A Dog of Flanders: IV, 93.
    The Pine-Tree Shillings: IV, 192.
    Gulliver's Travels: V, 6.
    Rab and His Friends: VI, 99.
    A Christmas Carol: VI, 244.
    Three Sundays in a Week: VI, 453.
    The Governor and the Notary: VII, 20.
    A Descent into the Maelstrom: VIII, 95.
    The Tempest: VIII, 364.
    The Gold-Bug: IX, 232.
    See ADVENTURE; FAIRY LORE AND FOLK LORE; NOVELS.

  STORIES OF ADVENTURE. See ADVENTURE.

  Stories, Reading: X, 145.

  Stories, Telling: X, 63.

  Stories of the Creation: IV, 159.

  Story of Aladdin, or the Wonderful Lamp, The: III, 288.

  Story of Esther, The. See Esther, The Story of.

  Story of Joseph, The. See Joseph, The Story of.

  Story of Phaethon, The. See Phaethon, The Story of.

  Story of Ruth, The. See Ruth, The Story of.

  Story of Siegfried, The. See Siegfried, The Story of.

  Studies, Of: IX, 400.

  STUDIES. (The following are selections upon which the studies are
  based. In chapter XIX of Volume X the more important studies are
  arranged in the order in which the selections appear in the several
  volumes.)
    Alfred the Great: IV, 260.
       (Study in History--X, 414.)
    America: VIII, 60.
    American Flag, The: V, 396.
    Annie Laurie: VI, 119.
       (Study in Close Reading--X, 243.)
    Ballad of Agincourt: V, 95.
       (Story Told--X, 74.)
    Bannockburn: VII, 15.
    Barefoot Boy, The: IV, 3.
       (Study--X, 286.)
    Battle of Saratoga: IX, 176.
       (Study in History--X, 419.)
    Boat Song: VII, 17.
    Boston Massacre, The: IV, 217.
       (Study in Argument--X, 370.)
    Braddock's Defeat: V, 379.
       (Study in Close Reading--X, 227.)
    Brown Thrush, The: I, 147.
       (Study--X, 276.)
    Brute Neighbors: VII, 260.
       (Nature Study--X, 383.)
    Bugle Song, The: VI, 133.
       (Study--X, 287.)
    Call to Arms, A: IX, 475.
    Chambered Nautilus, The: IX, 454.
    Child's World, The: II, 66.
       (Study--X, 277.)
    Christmas Carol, A: VI, 244.
       (Study in Exposition--X, 368.)
    Cinderella: I, 224.
       (Character Study--I, 238.)
       (Complete Study--X, 150.)
    Cloud, The: VII, 257.
       (Study--X, 301.)
    Country Squire, The: VI, 474.
    Cubes of Truth, The: VII, 406.
    Cupid and Psyche: III, 365.
    Daffodils, The: VII, 1.
    David Crockett in the Creek War: VIII, 37.
       (Study--X, 244.)
    Death of Cæsar, The: IX, 143.
       (Study--X, 253.)
    Definition of a Gentleman: IV, 170.
       (Study in Close Reading--X, 234)
    Descent into the Maelstrom, A: VIII, 95.
    Dog and His Shadow, The: I, 63.
       (Study on Scene--X, 164.)
    Down Tumbled Wheelbarrow: I, 46.
       (Study of Picture--X, 58.)
    Dream Children: A Revery: VIII, 335.
    Drummer, The: I, 303.
       (Complete Study--X, 193.)
    Exciting Canoe Race, An: VII, 79.
       (Study in Forms of Expression--X, 376.)
    Expense, Of: IX, 397.
    Fairies, The: I, 405.
    Fairies of Caldon-Low, The: II, 395.
       (Story Told--X, 68.)
    Faithless Sally Brown: III, 92.
       (Study in Close Reading--X, 232.)
    Fate of the Indians, The: IX, 466.
    Fir Tree, The: II, 68.
       (Study of Picture, The Swallow and the Stork Came--X, 55.)
       (Study in The Lesson and the Author's Purpose--X, 173.)
    First Snowfall, The: II, 403.
       (Study in Figures--X, 270.)
       (Complete Study--X, 281.)
    Forsaken Merman, The: VII, 180.
       (Study--X, 295.)
    Fox and the Crow, The: I, 64.
       (Complete Study--X, 187.)
    Fox and the Stork, The: I, 73.
       (Study on Scene--X, 166.)
    Frithiof the Bold: III, 394.
    Gold-Bug, The: IX, 232.
       (Study--IX, 283.)
    Golden Touch, The: II, 43.
       (Character Study--X, 158.)
    Hare and the Tortoise, The: I, 71.
       (Complete Study--X, 185.)
    Heart of Bruce, The: V, 316.
       (Study in Close Reading--X, 238.)
    Hervé Riel: VIII, 168.
       (Story Told--X, 78.)
    Holger Danske: II, 377.
    How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to Aix: V, 335.
    Impeachment of Warren Hastings, The: IX, 32.
       (Study--X, 248.)
    In Time's Swing: II, 481.
       (Study in Close Reading--X, 229.)
    Jack and The Beanstalk: I, 156.
       (Study of Picture--X, 52.)
    Keepsake Mill: I, 349.
    King of The Golden River, The: II, 405.
       (Study--II, 441.)
       (Study in Description--X, 366.)
       (Complete Study--X, 393.)
    Land of Counterpane: I, 144.
    Lead, Kindly Light: V, 110.
       (Study--X, 98.)
    Little Blue Pigeon: I, 133.
    Little Giffin of Tennessee: IV, 461.
       (Story Told--X, 71.)
    Lochinvar: III, 432.
    Lost Child, The: VII, 409.
       (Study in Close Reading--X, 243.)
    Milkmaid, The: II, 374.
    My Bed is My Boat: I, 126.
       (Study of Picture--X, 52.)
    My Mother's Picture: VII, 331.
       (Study in Figures--X, 268.)
       (Study in Reading Poetry--X, 306.)
    Old Gaelic Lullaby: I, 203.
    Old Oaken Bucket: VII, 11.
    Origin of the Opal: II, 480.
       (Study--X, 285.)
    Passing of Arthur, The: V, 237.
       (Complete Study--X, 214.)
    Petrified Fern, The: VII, 77.
       (Study--X, 291.)
    Phaethon, the Story of: II, 206.
    Picture Books in Winter: II, 87.
    Pippa Passes: IX, 293.
       (Study--IX, 316.)
    Pond in Winter, The: VII, 280.
       (Nature Study--X, 384.)
    Poor Richard's Almanac: VI, 407.
       (Study in Character Building--X, 101.)
    Potato, The: II, 467.
       (Study--X, 285.)
    Queen of The Underworld, The: II, 468.
    Rab and His Friends: VI, 99.
       (Study in Emotional Power--X, 177.)
       (Study in Close Reading--X, 225.)
    Reading History: V, 394.
    Reading Shakespeare: VIII, 346.
    Reaper and the Flowers, The: I, 410.
       (Study--X, 272.)
    Reapers Dream, The: VII, 345.
    Recessional, The: VII, 164.
    Recovery of the Hispaniola, The: VII, 352.
    Reminiscences of a Pioneer: V, 340.
       (Study--X, 119.)
    Robert of Lincoln: IX, 444.
    Robin Hood and the Stranger: III, 444.
       (Study in Narration--X, 363.)
    Robinson Crusoe: III, 45.
       (Nature Study--X, 382.)
    Rock-a-By Lady, The: I, 94.
    Seven Times One: II, 119.
       (Study--X, 278.)
    Shuffle-Shoon and Amber-Locks: II, 121.
       (Study of Picture--X, 54.)
    Snow Queen, The: II, 124.
       (Study on Plot--II, 169.)
    Some Children's Books of the Past: V, 101.
    "Something": I, 395.
    Sweet and Low: VI, 122.
    Swiss Family Robinson: III, 99.
       (Nature Study--X, 382.)
    Tempest, The: VIII, 364.
       (Studies for The Tempest--VIII, 468.)
    To H. W. L.: IV, 84.
    To My Infant Son: VI, 478.
    Tom, the Water Baby: II, 215.
       (Study of Picture, Tom and the Dragon Fly--X, 55.)
       (Study of Story--X, 198.)
       (Nature Study Lesson--X, 381.