    "MARCH 8th.--Felt much wearied with visits and climbing stairs, and
    was glad to return to a cheerful fireside, and settle for the
    evening; but before I had removed my rubbers, a knock at the door
    assured me some call had come for me, and so it proved. A child of
    one of my families came to say her mother was ill, and wanted to see
    me. This woman, a few months before, did not seem to care for
    religion, and would not hear me read, saying she had no time for it;
    she had to earn her living without listening to what did not concern
    her. But when she came to lie upon a bed of suffering, she thought
    of me first, and found the word of God was just what she wanted; and
    as I read the words, 'Whosoever cometh unto me I will in no wise
    cast out,' the tears ran down her cheeks, and she at once cast
    herself upon Christ, taking him for her Saviour, and her face shone.
    As I left her my soul rejoiced, though it was far in the night when
    I returned home, that I had been permitted to point one soul to the
    'Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world.'

        "'Oh! that all the world my Jesus knew,
        Then all the world would love Him too.'

    "One poor woman asked me if I would get her a Bible, and she would
    pay twenty-five cents a month. I promised, and am rejoiced at
    finding so many that seem eager for Bibles; quite a number have
    asked for them, and I trust it may prove a lamp unto their feet and
    a light unto their path.

    "MARCH 11th.--After the fatigue of the day, I did not feel like
    going out again in the evening, but our pastor, Rev. Geo. O. Phelps,
    came in, and after tea he said, 'We have not many minutes to spare,
    but we will have a few words of prayer before parting.' They were
    few, but they cheered and comforted me so, I felt refreshed, and
    forgetting all fatigue, I arose and went to the prayer-meeting,
    feeling as my people do sometimes when they say to me after a visit,
    'Oh! Mrs. Knowles, how your prayer has rested me.'

    "MARCH 23d.--A message came to-day, saying Mrs. L. was dying, and
    wanted me to come at once. I went, and was helped in return to see
    the triumph of spiritual over temporal things. The Lord was present
    to bless us at the bedside of the dying one. Her trust and faith are
    firm in Jesus, and her whole desire is to be with Him and see Him as
    He is."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

Blessed hope, "to see Him as He is, and to be transformed into His image."

It was about this time that she penned in her diary the following touching record of her toil.
It reveals how sincere, diligent, systematic, and unprejudiced she was in her work for Jesus,
even mentioning the names of the streets. 11-16.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

She writes: "I called on a woman in Broome Street who was convicted of her lost condition and
ready to yield to despair. Her mind had been impressed by a letter from her husband who had
gone West some time since on business.

"He had been converted during his absence, being awakened by witnessing the wickedness and
depravity of his fellow-men, the profanation of the Sabbath, licentiousness in high and low
places, and reflecting that if there were a righteous God, the wicked could not go unpunished.
It was pleasant to be able to tell this distressed woman of the love of Jesus, and to urge
her to go with her husband in the narrow way. On my next visit I found her more cheerful, and
feeling that there is hope for her. She wishes me to get her a Bible, which she will pay for
by weekly instalments.

"Met with a woman in Eldridge Street,[4] who was given to drinking. As she was sober at that
time, I conversed with her about her sin. She burst into tears and said, 'I have long wanted
some one to talk to me about my soul.' As I read to her the story of redeeming love, she seemed
to drink it in with delight, and promised to attend the place of prayer. She, too, wishes to
possess a Bible, and to use the money she has before spent for rum in payment. I am greatly
encouraged to labor and pray for her.

      [4] This was the street in which our missionary died.

"Visiting some families in Madison Street, I conversed with one woman who excited my especial
interest. She had been very ill with a sore throat. She was a Romanist, but the Spirit of God
had opened to her view the evil of her heart, and she now desired to hear from me of the way
of life. I told her of the forgiveness of sin through Christ's blood. She said she had confessed
to the priest, and had received absolution, but found no relief from her load, which weighed
upon her like a mountain. I directed her to the Lamb of God, who alone can take away sin. But
after conversing with her some time (although her throat was so much inflamed as almost to
deprive her of the power of utterance), she broke forth into one of the most affecting prayers
I ever heard. Her husband sat by and listened to all that was said, being very anxious lest
she should abjure the Catholic faith and die out of the pale of the Church. He interrupted
me frequently, saying, 'My good lady, we don't want you to teach us, the priest instructs us
in all we need.' But I told him I had a message from God, and I could not be prevented from
delivering it. He left the room in anger, but I hope this poor soul may find peace, by trusting
in the 'sinner's Friend.'

"Who can tell but what even this poor man may be found at last among the ransomed ones!"

This short extract from The Home Mission Monthly for May, published by the Woman's Executive
Committee of Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church, is peculiarly appropriate to the above
experience of her who now sleeps in Cypress Hills Cemetery,

    "Under the shadows gray."

"At this spring-time season, when the seed is cast into the brown bosom of the earth, the lesson
taught by the great Teacher, eighteen hundred years ago, in Palestine, 'as the sower went forth
to sow,' is borne in upon the mind once more, and these lines are the reflex of the impulses
which are astir in many hearts:

    "I know my hand may never reap its sowing,
      And yet some other may;
    And I may never even see it growing--
      So short my little day!

    "Still must I sow, although I go forth weeping,
      I cannot, dare not stay.
    God grant a harvest! though I may be sleeping,
      Under the shadows gray."

CHAPTER XXV.

THE SIN OF IDOLATRY.

    It is not that the city is glorious to behold,
    Her walls of lucid crystal, her very pavement gold,
    All shrined in dazzling splendor, beyond description fair,
    But I am pressing onward to see my Saviour there.

How dangerous is idolatry. When God says, "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image,"
etc., He means that we should not only avoid kneeling to them, but we should worship Him alone,
and come to Him through the only mediator between God and man--the man Christ Jesus. How explicit
are the words of the beloved John: "Little children, keep yourselves from idols." (1 John,
v. 21.) She seemed to realize the importance of speaking of Jesus only.

There is an alarming and increasing propensity in religious circles, to look with leniency
on the worship of saints, angels, martyrs, and the Virgin, but the Master himself said, "I
am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by Me." Pure worship
is spiritual, not æsthetical; hence the use of all pictures, crucifixes, and figureheads of
apostles and saints dishonors Christ.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

In August, 1875, Mrs. Knowles writes: "Among many discouragements, I meet with enough to cheer
me on my way, and induce me to feel that my labor is not all in vain.

"Among other incidents, I will mention the case of a family I have referred to before, as having
visited. The mother received me very kindly. She had four children, and as I was speaking to
them of Jesus while the little ones gathered around me, the father came in, a very rough-looking
man, and at the time apparently under the influence of liquor. The mother and children looked
at me, and a feeling of sadness was visible on their faces. I spoke to him of his family, but
he said little, and I then knelt and prayed with them. I asked if they had a Bible. He said
'No,' and they had not much time to read. I then asked him if he would like to have one. He
said he would, as 'it was a good thing to have one in the house.'

"I took them one in the course of a day or two, and he has been led to read it daily; the mother
and children also read it, and a few nights since he signed the temperance pledge. He said
to me lately, while visiting him: 'No more pennies for rum; those pennies will go toward the
support of my wife and children.' He now attends evening church, feeling his clothing is not
good enough to go by daylight. He has told me, although they are very poor, he was never as
happy as now. He has not yet been able to procure steady employment, so I help them as I can.

"I have been helped on to perseverance in my work by what was told me by one I visited. In
speaking of herself, she said she owed much to the efforts of a home missionary, who not only
sought her out, but followed her up; and although she often neglected her duty, and stayed
away from the preaching, he was so persevering and diligent in his efforts to win her, he at
length succeeded, and she is now truly a Christian. A severe trial has lately come upon her:
her son, a boy of ten years, has been killed by falling from a house. He lived but a short
time after the accident; and as I stood by her at the side of the remains of her departed child,
she was calm and resigned, telling me the Lord was helping her.

"I have been visiting at the hospitals much of late, where I have procured places for my sick,
of whom there have been many this season. I have also assisted some, and procured work for
others; have also distributed several Bibles, for which some have promised to pay as they are
able. My Superintendent and Pastor are both kind in aiding me; for while I can truly say, 'of
myself I can do nothing,' I can also, I hope, add, 'I can do all things through Christ, who
strengtheneth me.'"

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

We cannot leave this part of the record of the Lord's work without observing her strong attachment
to the children. In this she was very judicious. What momentous issues are at stake during
early childhood. It is doubtless true that Christ meant to teach a practical lesson with reference
to our tender watch-care of the little ones during His third brief interview with His disciples,
after His resurrection.

Amid such a scene so truthfully depicted in the above narrative, we behold the insecurity of
the children. What a sad sight. An intemperate father and no Bible in the house. What a statement
in this land of Bibles! Oh, what fearful consequences hang upon the conduct of parents. What
would become of the masses in the lower part of the city, were it not for our truly devoted
Bible women? What victories for Christ and His Church have been achieved--who can tell?

The cheering light that dawned upon the deeply bereaved mother when her boy was killed, is
beheld as we, in imagination, take our stand by the bedside with them, and hear that sorrow-stricken
mother exclaiming, "that the Lord was helping her." This is a striking proof that He who comforted
Martha and Mary, at Bethany, was in that tenement-house, saying once again, "I am the resurrection
and the life, he that believeth in me, though he were dead yet shall he live." Yes, helping
her to look beyond this vale of tears, and say even amid the loss of her darling boy, "Though
He slay me, yet will I trust in Him." Surely the language of Job must have been experienced
on an occasion like the above. 11-15.

There is a very comforting reflection for bereaved parents in Dr. Payson's "Comparison of Departed
Children to Jewels." To a mother mourning the death of a child, he said:

"Suppose, now, some one was making a beautiful crown for you to wear, and you knew it was for
you, and that you were to receive it and wear it as soon as it should be done. Now, if the
maker of it were to come, and in order to make the crown more beautiful and splendid, were
to take some of your jewels to put into it, should you be sorrowful and unhappy because they
were taken away for a little while, when you knew they were gone to make up your crown?"

In endeavoring humbly to interpret the language of the deceased, and, at the same time, call
attention to her superior magnanimity of heart, I would not for a moment dare to make it appear
that I was compromising human merit with the free, rich grace of our Heavenly Father, so richly
displayed in His imparted power to His children, enabling them to do valiantly in the salvation
of souls. This power is the presence of the Holy Spirit in the heart. Just listen to the closing
sentence of the last paragraph: "I can truly say of myself I can do nothing!" though I can
also, I hope, add, "I can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth me." Ah! here is the
secret of distinguished merit in the great conflict against all the forms of evil in the world.
The instruction to the disciples were to tarry until they received this Divine strength. Tarry,
how?

CHAPTER XXVI.

PEACE THROUGH BELIEVING.

    Oh, the unsearchable riches of Christ!
      Wealth that can never be told;--
    Riches exhaustless of mercy and grace,
      Precious, more precious than gold!

At the sixty-eighth annual meeting of the New York Female Auxiliary Bible Society, the Rev.
Dr. William M. Taylor, in his earnest masterly address on the occasion, happily said:

"In the prosecution of the excavations at Pompeii, the workmen laid bare an ancient spring,
the water of which, as soon as it was set free, flowed forth as copiously as ever, and carried
refreshment with it wherever it went. For centuries it had been buried beneath the ashes of
the volcano, but the moment it was again uncovered, it sent out its stream of blessing with
all its pristine fulness and wholesome influence.

"Something like that was the work which Martin Luther did for the fountain of truth in the
Sacred Scriptures. For many generations that had been virtually stopped up by the rubbish of
tradition and entombed beneath the weight of authority, but by his sturdy strength, his steady
persistence and his dauntless courage, he dug it clear again; and it became once more, as at
the first, the well-head of the river of progress among the nations."

What was said of the great German Reformer can be truthfully applied to this humble mother
in Israel.

At the above meeting it was stated that this Missionary woman in her advanced age made four
hundred and forty visits in two months, she had read the Scriptures in many homes, prayed with
a large number, comforted dying believers with Christian song, administered first aid to the
injured; thus bringing into practical use the instructions she had received, and receiving
the commendations of physicians, distributed religious reading, and suspended the "Words of
Life" in the rooms of the sick. Streams from this uncovered fountain of truth are turned by
the cheerful, willing, working hands, heads, and hearts of our Bible women into human habitations
in this city, where degradation, poverty, drunkenness, vice, and squalor sink the inmates to
the level of brutes. The cleansing waters, as if by magic, convert these dark places into homes
of joy and brightness, sobriety, industry, cleanliness, and godliness.

The effulgence born of the lustre of Christ drives out the darkness of sin and sorrow, and
the thoughts of regenerated souls are indeed carried upward to the throne of God. All sorts
and conditions of men, all varieties of human life, find their adaptation in the religion of
our Lord Jesus Christ.

Later on she writes: "During the month of January, 1876, I have been greatly encouraged in
various ways. Knowing how many were the wants, and how small the means for supplying them during
the present winter, I called on my old friend, Mr. M., at his place of business, and telling
him how low our funds were, as he always took an interest in our work, he gave me twenty dollars
for the Society. Much encouragement has also been afforded me by seeing some, among whom I
have been laboring for years, brought to Christ, and those of whom I had the least hope, now
testifying their love for the Saviour. It is not more than three or four weeks since they began
to attend church, and since then it is surprising to witness the change. They have risen in
the prayer-meeting and told what the Lord had done for their souls.

"One of those women, when I visited her, told me when I asked her to attend church, that the
devil was her best friend; he helped her out of all her difficulties, by lying and cheating,
and she intended to give herself entirely to him. Such an expression falling from the lips
of any one, but especially from one for whom I have been watching and praying for years, rendered
me almost speechless; but I kissed her, and saying there would be no use in my calling on her
again, as she had settled in indifference, I left her. In a few days she sent for me, and I
had another interview with her, which resulted in a promise, on her part, to attend church.
She did not do so for some weeks. A noon-day prayer-meeting was then established in our church,
and I invited her there. In a few days she came, and since then has been attending both noon
and evening meetings, and coming to church. She has risen to ask prayers for herself, her husband,
and children, and a dear old mother, nearly eighty years of age, still out of the ark of safety.

"Last Sabbath morning, upon entering the church, and seeing a stranger in my pew, I could not
express the feeling of joy that filled my soul, upon discovering this was the same woman, now
come to the house of God, having exchanged masters, and forsaken the territory of Satan, anxious
to become the servant of Christ, and receive the gift of God which is eternal life, instead
of the wages of sin, which is death; and which, a short time since, she avowed herself determined
to secure.

"Another woman with whom I had talked about the sin of her encouraging a love for dress and
pleasure in her young daughter, acknowledged the truth of what I said, and has since attended
church, and undoubtedly been brought to Christ. Her husband, also, who had not set his foot
in a church for fifteen years, but spent all his leisure time in a liquor store, and associated
with a rough class of men, according to his own statements concerning himself, believes he
has found the Saviour, and attends the meetings regularly. A few evenings since he told me
he had to watch himself very closely, as he had become habituated to profane swearing. The
change that has been made in him is remarkable. It appears clear to my mind that nothing but
a Divine power could have effected it.

