Parliament Street and King Street have now been merged in one, and together have become a part
of Whitehall, so that the very names will soon be forgotten. Yet King Street was once the direct
land route to the Abbey and Palace from the north, and its narrow span was perforce wide enough
for all the pageantry of funerals, coronations, and other State shows that passed through it.
It must be remembered that King Street formerly ran right up to the Abbey precincts, from which
it was separated by a gate-house, called Highgate, built by Richard II.; but the street was
subsequently shorn of a third of its length, over which now grows green grass in smooth lawns.
The street was very picturesque: "The houses rose up three and four stories high; gabled all,
with projecting fronts, story above story, the timbers of the fronts painted and gilt, some
of them with escutcheons hung in front, the richly blazoned arms brightening the narrow way."
But it was also dirty: "The roadway was rough and full of holes; a filthy stream ran down the
middle, all kinds of refuse were lying about." But what mattered that? No one went on foot
who could possibly go by boat, and there lay the great highway of the river close at hand.
We have said processions went down this street; among them we may number all the coronation
processions up to the time when Parliament Street was cut through numerous small courts and
by-streets in the reign of George II. Lord Howard of Effingham set out from King Street to
fight the Spanish Armada. Charles I. came this way from Whitehall Palace to his trial at Westminster;
he went back by the same route condemned to death; and later Cromwell's funeral procession
followed the same route. Cromwell himself narrowly escaped assassination in this very street,
where he had a house north of Boar's Head Yard. The story is told that he was in his state
carriage, but owing to the crowd and narrow street he was separated from his guard. Suddenly
Lord Broghill, who was with him, saw the door of a cobbler's stall open and shut, while something
glittered behind it. He therefore got out of the carriage and hammered at the door with his
scabbard, when a tall man, armed with a sword, rushed out and made his escape.

Anne Oldfield was apprenticed to a seamstress in King Street. Sir Henry Wootton also lived
here; and Ben Jonson says that Spenser died here for "lack of bread," and that the Earl of
Essex sent him "20 pieces" on hearing of his poverty, but the poet refused them, saying they
came too late. But it seems hardly credible he was so badly off as to be destitute, for he
was at the time a pensioner of the Crown. Thomas Carew the poet lived in King Street. Most
of the taverns in Westminster seem to have clustered about this street; we have the names of
the Bell, the Boar's Head, and the Rhenish Wine House still handed down as places of importance.
There were innumerable courts and alleys opening out of King Street. On the west, south of
Downing Street, were Axe Yard, Sea Alley, Bell Yard, Antelope Alley. Gardener's Lane ran parallel
with Charles Street; here Hollar the engraver died in extreme poverty in 1677.

At the north end of King Street stood a second gate, called the King's Gate, and sometimes
the Cockpit Gate. It stood at the corner of what is now Downing Street. It had four domed towers;
on the south side were pilasters and an entablature enriched with the double rose, the portcullis,
and the royal arms. The gate was removed in 1723.

In the year 1605 a solemn function took place in which the gate played a part:

"On January 4, 1605, when Prince Charles, Duke of Albany, then only four years old, was to
be created Knight of the Bath, his esquires, the Earls of Oxford and Essex, with eleven noblemen
who were to share in the honour, tooke their lodgings in the first Gate-house going to King's-streete,
where they were all after supper, at which they sat by degrees, a row on the one side, with
the armes of every of them over the seate where he was placed; and lodged upon severall pallets
in one chamber, with their armes likewise over them, having their bathes provided for them
in the chamber underneath. The next morning they went about through the gallory downe into
the Parke in their hermits' weedes, the musitions playing, and the heralds going before them
into The Court, and so into the Chapell, and there after solemn courtesies, like to the Knights
of the Garter, first to the Altar, and then to the Cloath of Estate, every one took his place
in the stalles of the Quier" (Walcott, p. 58).

Great George Street, made 1750--at the same time as the Bridge, Bridge Street, etc.--contains
the Institution of Civil Engineers, a fine building, and at the west end is Delahay Street,
once Duke Street, a very fashionable locality in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
The poet Matthew Prior lived here, and Bishop Stillingfleet died here in 1699. Duke Street
Chapel, recently pulled down, was a very well-known place; it was originally part of a house,
overlooking the park built by Judge Jeffreys, and the steps into the park at Chapel Place were
made for Jeffreys' special convenience. In this wing of his house he sometimes heard cases,
and it was later made into a chapel for private subscribers. Jeffreys' house was also used
for a time as the Admiralty Office. In Delahay Street may be noted the west end of the Boar's
Head Court, marking the spot where Cromwell's house stood. The space between Great George Street
and Charles Street will soon be covered by Government offices, now in course of erection. When
Parliament Street was made it effaced Clinker's Court, White Horse Yard, Lady's Alley, Stephen's
Alley, Rhenish Wine Yard, Brewers' Yard, and Pensioners' Alley--some of the slums which had
sprung up outside the Abbey precincts. Now Parliament Street in its turn is effaced, swallowed
up in an extended Whitehall. King Street has been completely swept away, as one sweeps a row
of crumbs from a cloth, but the part it played in the ancient history of Westminster is not
yet forgotten. Undoubtedly the change could be justified: the thoroughfare is an important
one, the view as now seen from the direction of Charing Cross one of the finest in the world;
yet to gain it we have had to give, and one wonders sometimes whether the gain counterbalances
the loss.

Beyond the now vacant space on the north are the great group of Government offices, the Home
and Colonial Offices facing Parliament Street, and behind them the India and the Foreign Offices.
Above Downing Street there are others, the Privy Council Office and the Treasury.

Downing Street is called after George Downing, an American Ambassador to the Hague under Cromwell
and in Charles II.'s reign. John Boyle, Earl of Cork and Ossory and the last Earl of Oxford,
lived here. Boswell occupied a house in Downing Street in 1763. But the street is chiefly associated
with the official residence of the First Lord of the Treasury. Sir Robert Walpole accepted
this house from George II. on condition it should belong to his successors in office for ever.

On the east side, nearly opposite Downing Street, Richmond Terrace stands on the site of the
Duke of Richmond's house, burnt down in 1790. Beyond Richmond Terrace is Montagu House, the
town residence of the Duke of Buccleuch; the present building, which is of stone, in the Italian
style, dates from the middle of the nineteenth century.

Beyond, again, are Whitehall Gardens, on part of the site of the Privy Gardens, belonging to
Whitehall Palace. There is now a row of fine houses overlooking the Embankment and the Gardens.
One of these was the residence of Sir Robert Peel. A great gallery of sculpture formerly extended
along this part of the Embankment. It was partly destroyed in 1778, and wholly burnt down some
years later. Gwydyr House, a sombre brick building with heavy stone facings over the central
window and doorway is now occupied by the Charity Commission; it was built by Adam. Adjoining
it is a new building with an angle tower and cupola; this belongs to the Royal United Service
Institute, and next door to it is the banqueting-hall, now used as the United Service Museum.
This is the only fragment left of Whitehall Palace, and is described in detail on p. 88.

The gatehouse known as the Holbein Gate stood across Whitehall a little south of the banqueting-hall.
It was the third, and the most magnificent of those which previously stood in Westminster,
and was built by Henry VIII. after the design of Holbein. It is said that one of the chambers
was Holbein's studio. Later it was used as a State Paper Office, and was removed in 1750 to
widen the street. It was intended to rebuild it in Windsor Park, but this design was never
carried out; though various fragments of it were afterwards worked into other buildings.

It is a pity that it vanished, for it would have been a fine relic of the Tudor times, with
its high angular towers and its elaborate decoration. It had a large central entrance and two
smaller doorways beneath the towers. The brickwork was in diaper pattern, and the front ornamented
with busts in niches--altogether a very elaborate piece of work.

WHITEHALL PALACE.

Hubert de Burgh bequeathed a house on this site to the Dominican Friars in the thirteenth century,
and they sold it to the Archbishop of York. For 250 years it was the town-house of the Archbishops
of that see, and when Wolsey became Archbishop he entered into his official residence with
the intention of beautifying and enlarging it greatly; he had a passion for display, a quality
which perhaps cost him more than he was ever aware of. It was a dangerous thing to build or
rebuild great mansions close to the palace of so jealous a King as Henry VIII. It was especially
dangerous to do so at Whitehall, because, as has been already shown, the King lived at Westminster
in a congeries of old buildings more or less dilapidated and inconvenient. Wolsey's fall was
doubtless hastened by his master's covetousness, and after it, by agreement with the Chapter
of York, the King had the house conveyed to himself. Up to this time it had been known as York
Place, but was henceforth Whitehall. At Anne Boleyn's coronation in the Abbey, the Royal party
came to and from Whitehall.

    'King Henry VIII.,' Act IV.

It must be remembered that there was then no Parliament Street, and the palace buildings occupied
all the ground from Old Scotland Yard to Downing Street, from St. James's Park to the river.
King Henry added very much to the land belonging to the palace, also to the buildings. He was
fond of sport, and his additions show his tastes in this direction; he built a tennis-court,
a tilt-yard,--on the site of the Horse Guards--a bowling-green, and a cockpit. The exact site
of the cockpit has long been a matter of uncertainty, but it is now very generally believed
that the entrance was just where the present Treasury entrance is.

The palace does not seem to have been very homogeneous; it contained three courts, including
Old Scotland Yard, in which was the Guard House. The King and Queen occupied the first court,
where was what remained of old York House; here also was the great Hall, the Presence Chamber,
and the Banqueting House. In the second court was the way to the Audience and Council Chambers,
the Chapel, the offices of the Palace, and the Watergate.

