'

'I suppose you did not see many of our old country trees?'

'Hardly any. Pine is the most plentiful of all: how I like its sturdy independent look! as
if it were used to battling with snowstorms, and got strong by the exercise. The mate showed
me hickory and hemlock, and a lot of other foreigners, while the men were cutting logs in the
bush.'

'You have picked up the Canadian phraseology already,' observed Robert.

'Yes;' and Arthur reddened slightly. 'Impossible to avoid that, when you're thrown among fellows
that speak nothing else. But I wanted to tell you, that coming back we hailed a boat from one
of those outward-bound ships lying yonder at anchor: the mate says their wood and water is
half a pretence. They are smuggling skins, in addition to their regular freight of lumber.'

'Smuggling skins!'

'For the skippers' private benefit, you understand: furs, such as sable, marten, and squirrel;
they send old ship's stores ashore to trade with vagrant Indians, and then sew up the skins
in their clothes, between the lining and the stuff, so as to pass the Custom-house officers
at home. Bob! I'm longing to be ashore for good. You don't know what it is to feel firm ground
under one's feet after six weeks' unsteady footing. I'm longing to get out of this floating
prison, and begin our life among the pines.'

Robert shook his head a little sorrowfully. Now that they were nearing the end of the voyage,
many cares pressed upon him, which to the volatile nature of Arthur seemed only theme for adventure.
Whither to bend their steps in the first instance, was a matter for grave deliberation. They
had letters of introduction to a gentleman near Carillon on the Ottawa, and others to a family
at Toronto. Former friends had settled beside the lonely Lake Simcoe, midway between Huron
and Ontario. Many an hour of the becalmed days he spent over the maps and guide-books they
had brought, trying to study out a result. Jay came up to him one afternoon, as he leaned his
head on his hand perplexedly.

'What ails you? have you a headache?'

'No, I am only puzzled.'

Her own small elbow rested on the taffrail, and her little fingers dented the fair round cheek,
in unwitting imitation of his posture.

'Is it about a lesson? But you don't have to get lessons.'

'No; it is about what is best for me to do when I land.'

'Edith asks God always; and He shows her what is best,' said the child, looking at him wistfully.
Again he thought of his pious prayerful mother. She might have spoken through the childish
lips. He closed his books, remarking that they were stupid. Jay gave him her hand to walk up
and down the deck. He had never made it a custom to consult God, or refer to Him in matters
of daily life, though theoretically he acknowledged His pervading sovereignty. To procure the
guidance of Infinite Wisdom would be well worth a prayer. Something strong as a chain held
him back--the pride of his consciously unrenewed heart.

When the weather became favourable, they passed up the river rapidly; and a succession of the
noblest views opened around them. No panorama of the choice spots of earth could be lovelier.
Lofty granite islets, such as Kamouraska, which attains an altitude of five hundred feet; bold
promontories and deep basin bays; magnificent ranges of bald blue mountains inland; and, as
they neared Grosse Isle and the quarantine ground, the soft beauties of civilisation were superadded.
Many ships of all nations lay at anchor; the shore was dotted with white farmhouses, and neat
villages clustered each round the glittering spire of a church.

'How very French that is, eh?' said Captain Armytage, referring to those shining metal roofs.
'Tinsel is charming to the eyes of a habitan. You know, I've been in these parts before with
my regiment: so I am well acquainted with the ground. We have the parish of St. Thomas to our
left now, thickly spotted with white cottages: St. Joachim is on the opposite bank. The nomenclature
all about here smacks of the prevailing faith and of the old masters.'

''Tis a pity they didn't hold by the musical Indian names,' said Robert Wynn.

'Well, yes, when the music don't amount to seventeen syllables a-piece, eh?' Captain Armytage
had a habit of saying 'eh' at every available point in his sentences. Likewise had he the most
gentleman-like manners that could be, set off by the most gentleman-like personal appearance;
yet, an inexplicable something about him prevented a thorough liking. Perhaps it was the intrinsic
selfishness, and want of sincerity of nature, which one instinctively felt after a little intercourse
had worn off the dazzle of his engaging demeanour. Perhaps Robert had detected the odour of
rum, ineffectually concealed by the fragrance of a smoking pill, more frequently than merely
after dinner, and seen the sad shadow on his daughter's face, following. But that did not prevent
Captain Armytage's being a very agreeable and well-informed companion nevertheless.

'Granted that "Canada" is a pretty name,' said he; 'but it's Spanish more than native. "Aca
nada," nothing here,--said the old Castilian voyagers, when they saw no trace of gold mines
or other wealth along the coast. That's the story, at all events. But I hold to it that our
British John Cabot was the first who ever visited this continent, unless there's truth in the
old Scandinavian tales, which I don't believe.'

But the gallant officer's want of credence does not render it the less a fact, that, about
the year 1001, Biorn Heriolson, an Icelander, was driven south from Greenland by tempestuous
weather, and discovered Labrador. Subsequently, a colony was established for trading purposes
on some part of the coast named Vinland; but after a few Icelanders had made fortunes of the
peltries, and many had perished among the Esquimaux, all record of the settlement is blotted
out, and Canada fades from the world's map till restored by the exploration of the Cabots and
Jacques Cartier. The two former examined the seaboard, and the latter first entered the grand
estuary of the St. Lawrence, which he named from the saint's day of its discovery; and he also
was the earliest white man to gaze down from the mighty precipice of Quebec, and pronounce
the obscure Indian name which was hereafter to suggest a world-famed capital. Then, the dwellings
and navies of nations and generations yet unborn were growing all around in hundreds of leagues
of forest; a dread magnificence of shade darkened the face of the earth, amid which the red
man reigned supreme. Now, as the passengers of the good brig Ocean Queen gazed upon it three
centuries subsequently, the slow axe had chopped away those forests of pine, and the land was
smiling with homesteads, and mapped out in fields of rich farm produce: the encroachments of
the irresistible white man had metamorphosed the country, and almost blotted out its olden
masters. Robert Wynn began to realize the force of Hiram Holt's patriotic declaration, 'It's
the finest country in the world!'

'And the loveliest!' he could have added, without even a saving clause for his own old Emerald
Isle, when they passed the western point of the high wooded island of Orleans, and came in
view of the superb Falls of Montmorenci; two hundred and fifty feet of sheer precipice, leaped
by a broad full torrent, eager to reach the great river flowing beyond, and which seemed placidly
to await the turbulent onset. As Robert gazed, the fascination of a great waterfall came over
him like a spell. Who has not felt this beside Lodore, or Foyers, or Torc? Who has not found
his eye mesmerized by the falling sheet of dark polished waters, merging into snowy spray and
crowned with rainbow crest, most changeable, yet most unchanged?

Thousands of years has this been going on; you may read it in the worn limestone layers that
have been eaten through, inches in centuries, by the impetuous stream. Thus, also, has the
St. Lawrence carved out its mile-wide bed beneath the Heights of Abraham--the stepping-stone
to Wolfe's fame and Canadian freedom.

CHAPTER IV.

WOODEN-NESS.

Piled on the summit of Cape Diamond, and duplicated in shadow upon the deep waters at its base,
three hundred feet below, stands the fortress of Quebec. Edinburgh and Ehrenbreitstein have
been used as old-world symbols to suggest its beauty and strength; but the girdle of mighty
river is wanting to the former, and the latter is a trifling miniature of the Canadian city-queen.
Robert Wynn knew of no such comparisons; he only felt how beautiful was that mass of interwoven
rock, and wood, and town, reflected and rooted in the flood; he scarcely heard Captain Armytage
at his left reminding him for the tenth time that he had been here before with his regiment.

'There's Point Levi to the south, a mile away, in front of the mountains. Something unpleasant
once befell me in crossing there. I and another sub. hired a boat for a spree, just because
the hummocks of ice were knocking about on the tide, and all prudent people stayed ashore;
but we went out in great dreadnought boots, and bearskin caps over our ears, and amused ourselves
with pulling about for a while among the floes. I suppose the grinding of the ice deafened
us, and the hummocks hid us from view of the people on board; at all events, down came one
of the river steamers slap on us. I saw the red paddles laden with ice at every revolution,
and the next instant was sinking, with my boots dragging me down like a cannon-ball at my feet.
I don't know how I kicked them off, and rose: Gilpin, the other sub., had got astride on the
capsized boat; a rope flung from the steamer struck me, and you may believe I grasped it pretty
tightly. D'ye see here?' and he showed Robert a front tooth broken short: 'I caught with my
hands first, and they were so numb, and the ice forming so fast on the dripping rope, that
it slipped till I held by my teeth; and another noose being thrown around me lasso-wise, I
was dragged in. A narrow escape, eh?'

'Very narrow,' echoed Robert. He noticed the slight shiver that ran through the daughter's
figure, as she leaned on her father's arm. His handsome face looked down at her carelessly.

'Edith shudders,' said he; 'I suppose thinking that so wonderful an escape ought to be remembered
as more than a mere adventure.' To which he received no answer, save an appealing look from
her soft eyes. He turned away with a short laugh.

'Well, at all events, it cured me of boating among the ice. Ugh! to be sucked in and smothered
under a floe would be frightful.'

Mr. Wynn wishing to say something that would prove he was not thinking of the little aside-scene
between father and daughter, asked if the St. Lawrence was generally so full of ice in winter.

It was difficult to believe now in the balmy atmosphere of the Indian summer, with a dreamy
sunshine warming and gladdening all things,--the very apotheosis of autumn,--that wintry blasts
would howl along this placid river, surging fierce ice-waves together, before two months should
pass.

'There's rarely a bridge quite across,' replied Captain Armytage; 'except in the north channel,
above the isle of Orleans, where the tide has less force than in the southern, because it is
narrower; but in the widest place the hummocks of ice are frequently crushed into heaps fifteen
or twenty feet high, which makes navigation uncomfortably exciting.'

'I should think so,' rejoined Robert drily.

