But the laws of Pluto's kingdom know small difference between king, and cobbler; manager, and
call-boy; and, if haply your dates of life were conterminant, you are quietly taking your passage,
cheek by cheek (O ignoble levelling of Death) with the shade of some recently departed candle-snuffer.

But mercy! what strippings, what tearing off of histrionic robes, and private vanities! what
denudations to the bone, before the surly Ferryman will admit you to set a foot within his
battered lighter!

Crowns, sceptres; shield, sword, and truncheon; thy own coronation robes (for thou hast brought
the whole property man's wardrobe with thee, enough to sink a navy); the judge's ermine; the
coxcomb's wig; the snuff-box à la Foppington--all must overboard, he positively swears--and
that ancient mariner brooks no denial; for, since the tiresome monodrame of the old Thracian
Harper, Charon, it is to be believed, hath shown small taste for theatricals.

Aye, now 'tis done. You are just boat weight; pura et puta anima.

But bless me, how little you look!

So shall we all look--kings, and keysars--stript for the last voyage.

But the murky rogue pushes off. Adieu, pleasant, and thrice pleasant shade! with my parting
thanks for many a heavy hour of life lightened by thy harmless extravaganzas, public or domestic.

Rhadamanthus, who tries the lighter causes below, leaving to his two brethren the heavy calendars--honest
Rhadamanth, always partial to players, weighing their parti-coloured existence here upon earth,--making
account of the few foibles, that may have shaded thy real life as we call it, (though, substantially,
scarcely less a vapour than thy idlest vagaries upon the boards of Drury,) as but of so many
echoes, natural repercussions, and results to be expected from the assumed extravagancies of
thy secondary or mock life, nightly upon a stage--after a lenient castigation, with rods lighter
than of those Medusean ringlets, but just enough to "whip the offending Adam out of thee"--shall
courteously dismiss thee at the right hand gate--the O.P. side of Hades--that conducts to masques,
and merry-makings, in the Theatre Royal of Proserpine.

PLAUDITO, ET VALETO

ELLISTONIANA

My acquaintance with the pleasant creature, whose loss we all deplore, was but slight.

My first introduction to E., which afterwards ripened into an acquaintance a little on this
side of intimacy, was over a counter of the Leamington Spa Library, then newly entered upon
by a branch of his family. E., whom nothing misbecame--to auspicate, I suppose, the filial
concern, and set it a going with a lustre--was serving in person two damsels fair, who had
come into the shop ostensibly to inquire for some new publication, but in reality to have a
sight of the illustrious shopman, hoping some conference. With what an air did he reach down
the volume, dispassionately giving his opinion upon the worth of the work in question, and
launching out into a dissertation on its comparative merits with those of certain publications
of a similar stamp, its rivals! his enchanted customers fairly hanging on his lips, subdued
to their authoritative sentence. So have I seen a gentleman in comedy acting the shopman. So
Lovelace sold his gloves in King Street. I admired the histrionic art, by which he contrived
to carry clean away every notion of disgrace, from the occupation he had so generously submitted
to; and from that hour I judged him, with no after repentance, to be a person, with whom it
would be a felicity to be more acquainted.

To descant upon his merits as a Comedian would be superfluous. With his blended private and
professional habits alone I have to do; that harmonious fusion of the manners of the player
into those of every day life, which brought the stage boards into streets, and dining-parlours,
and kept up the play when the play was ended.--"I like Wrench," a friend was saying to him
one day, "because he is the same natural, easy creature, on the stage, that he is off." "My
case exactly," retorted Elliston--with a charming forgetfulness, that the converse of a proposition
does not always lead to the same conclusion--"I am the same person off the stage that I am
on." The inference, at first sight, seems identical; but examine it a little, and it confesses
only, that the one performer was never, and the other always, acting.

And in truth this was the charm of Elliston's private deportment. You had a spirited performance
always going on before your eyes, with nothing to pay. As where a monarch takes up his casual
abode for a night, the poorest hovel which he honours by his sleeping in it, becomes ipso facto
for that time a palace; so where-ever Elliston walked, sate, or stood still, there was the
theatre. He carried about with him his pit, boxes, and galleries, and set up his portable playhouse
at corners of streets, and in the market-places. Upon flintiest pavements he trod the boards
still; and if his theme chanced to be passionate, the green baize carpet of tragedy spontaneously
rose beneath his feet. Now this was hearty, and showed a love for his art. So Apelles always
painted--in thought. So G.D. always poetises. I hate a lukewarm artist. I have known actors--and
some of them of Elliston's own stamp--who shall have agreeably been amusing you in the part
of a rake or a coxcomb, through the two or three hours of their dramatic existence; but no
sooner does the curtain fall with its leaden clatter, but a spirit of lead seems to seize on
all their faculties. They emerge sour, morose persons, intolerable to their families, servants,
&c. Another shall have been expanding your heart with generous deeds and sentiments, till it
even beats with yearnings of universal sympathy; you absolutely long to go home, and do some
good action. The play seems tedious, till you can get fairly out of the house, and realise
your laudable intentions. At length the final bell rings, and this cordial representative of
all that is amiable in human breasts steps forth--a miser. Elliston was more of a piece. Did
he play Ranger? and did Ranger fill the general bosom of the town with satisfaction? why should
he not be Ranger, and diffuse the same cordial satisfaction among his private circles? with
his temperament, his animal spirits, his good-nature, his follies perchance, could he do better
than identify himself with his impersonation? Are we to like a pleasant rake, or coxcomb, on
the stage, and give ourselves airs of aversion for the identical character presented to us
in actual life? or what would the performer have gained by divesting himself of the impersonation?
Could the man Elliston have been essentially different from his part, even if he had avoided
to reflect to us studiously, in private circles, the airy briskness, the forwardness, and 'scape
goat trickeries of his prototype?

"But there is something not natural in this everlasting acting; we want the real man."

Are you quite sure that it is not the man himself, whom you cannot, or will not see, under
some adventitious trappings, which, nevertheless, sit not at all inconsistently upon him? What
if it is the nature of some men to be highly artificial? The fault is least reprehensible in
players. Cibber was his own Foppington, with almost as much wit as Vanburgh could add to it.

"My conceit of his person,"--it is Ben Jonson speaking of Lord Bacon,--"was never increased
towards him by his place or honours. But I have, and do reverence him for the greatness, that
was only proper to himself; in that he seemed to me ever one of the greatest men, that had
been in many ages. In his adversity I ever prayed that heaven would give him strength; for
greatness he could not want."

The quality here commended was scarcely less conspicuous in the subject of these idle reminiscences,
than in my Lord Verulam. Those who have imagined that an unexpected elevation to the direction
of a great London Theatre, affected the consequence of Elliston, or at all changed his nature,
knew not the essential greatness of the man whom they disparage. It was my fortune to encounter
him near St. Dunstan's Church (which, with its punctual giants, is now no more than dust and
a shadow), on the morning of his election to that high office. Grasping my hand with a look
of significance, he only uttered,--"Have you heard the news?"--then with another look following
up the blow, he subjoined, "I am the future Manager of Drury Lane Theatre."--Breathless as
he saw me, he stayed not for congratulation or reply, but mutely stalked away, leaving me to
chew upon his new-blown dignities at leisure. In fact, nothing could be said to it. Expressive
silence alone could muse his praise. This was in his great style.

But was he less great, (be witness, O ye Powers of Equanimity, that supported in the ruins
of Carthage the consular exile, and more recently transmuted for a more illustrious exile the
barren constableship of Elba into an image of Imperial France), when, in melancholy after-years,
again, much near the same spot, I met him, when that sceptre had been wrested from his hand,
and his dominion was curtailed to the petty managership, and part proprietorship, of the small
Olympic, his Elba? He still played nightly upon the boards of Drury, but in parts alas! allotted
to him, not magnificently distributed by him. Waiving his great loss as nothing, and magnificently
sinking the sense of fallen material grandeur in the more liberal resentment of depreciations
done to his more lofty intellectual pretensions, "Have you heard" (his customary exordium)--"have
you heard," said he, "how they treat me? they put me in comedy." Thought I--but his finger
on his lips forbade any verbal interruption--"where could they have put you better?" Then,
after a pause--"Where I formerly played Romeo, I now play Mercutio,"--and so again he stalked
away, neither staying, nor caring for, responses.

O, it was a rich scene,--but Sir A---- C----, the best of story-tellers and surgeons, who mends
a lame narrative almost as well as he sets a fracture, alone could do justice to it--that I
was witness to, in the tarnished room (that had once been green) of that same little Olympic.
There, after his deposition from Imperial Drury, he substituted a throne. That Olympic Hill
was his "highest heaven;" himself "Jove in his chair."

'Twas the identical argument a fortiori, which the son of Peleus uses to Lycaon trembling under
his lance, to persuade him to take his destiny with a good grace. "I too am mortal." And it
is to be believed that in both cases the rhetoric missed of its application, for want of a
proper understanding with the faculties of the respective recipients.

"Quite an Opera pit," he said to me, as he was courteously conducting me over the benches of
his Surrey Theatre, the last retreat, and recess, of his every-day waning grandeur.

Those who knew Elliston, will know the manner in which he pronounced the latter sentence of
the few words I am about to record. One proud day to me he took his roast mutton with us in
the Temple, to which I had superadded a preliminary haddock. After a rather plentiful partaking
of the meagre banquet, not unrefreshed with the humbler sort of liquors, I made a sort of apology
for the humility of the fare, observing that for my own part I never ate but of one dish at
dinner. "I too never eat but one thing at dinner"--was his reply--then after a pause--"reckoning
fish as nothing." The manner was all. It was as if by one peremptory sentence he had decreed
the annihilation of all the savory esculents, which the pleasant and nutritious-food-giving
Ocean pours forth upon poor humans from her watery bosom. This was greatness, tempered with
considerate tenderness to the feelings of his scanty but welcoming entertainer.

Great wert thou in thy life, Robert William Elliston! and not lessened in thy death, if report
speak truly, which says that thou didst direct that thy mortal remains should repose under
no inscription but one of pure Latinity. Classical was thy bringing up! and beautiful was the
feeling on thy last bed, which, connecting the man with the boy, took thee back in thy latest
exercise of imagination, to the days when, undreaming of Theatres and Managerships, thou wert
a scholar, and an early ripe one, under the roofs builded by the munificent and pious Colet.
For thee the Pauline Muses weep. In elegies, that shall silence this crude prose, they shall
celebrate thy praise.

    Lord Foppington in the Relapse.

To be strong-backed and neat-bound is the desideratum of a volume. Magnificence comes after.
This, when it can be afforded, is not to be lavished upon all kinds of books indiscriminately.
I would not dress a set of Magazines, for instance, in full suit. The dishabille, or half-binding
(with Russia backs ever) is our costume. A Shakespeare, or a Milton (unless the first editions),
it were mere foppery to trick out in gay apparel. The possession of them confers no distinction.
The exterior of them (the things themselves being so common), strange to say, raises no sweet
emotions, no tickling sense of property in the owner. Thomson's Seasons, again, looks best
(I maintain it) a little torn, and dog's-eared. How beautiful to a genuine lover of reading
are the sullied leaves, and worn out appearance, nay, the very odour (beyond Russia), if we
would not forget kind feelings in fastidiousness, of an old "Circulating Library" Tom Jones,
or Vicar of Wakefield! How they speak of the thousand thumbs, that have turned over their pages
with delight!--of the lone sempstress, whom they may have cheered (milliner, or harder-working
mantua-maker) after her long day's needle-toil, running far into midnight, when she has snatched
an hour, ill spared from sleep, to steep her cares, as in some Lethean cup, in spelling out
their enchanting contents! Who would have them a whit less soiled? What better condition could
we desire to see them in?

In some respects the better a book is, the less it demands from binding. Fielding, Smollet,
Sterne, and all that class of perpetually self-reproductive volumes--Great Nature's Stereotypes--we
see them individually perish with less regret, because we know the copies of them to be "eterne."

Not only rare volumes of this description, which seem hopeless ever to be reprinted; but old
editions of writers, such as Sir Philip Sydney, Bishop Taylor, Milton in his prose-works, Fuller--of
whom we have reprints, yet the books themselves, though they go about, and are talked of here
and there, we know, have not endenizened themselves (nor possibly ever will) in the national
heart, so as to become stock books--it is good to possess these in durable and costly covers.
I do not care for a First Folio of Shakspeare. I rather prefer the common editions of Rowe
and Tonson, without notes, and with plates, which, being so execrably bad, serve as maps, or
modest remembrancers, to the text; and without pretending to any supposable emulation with
it, are so much better than the Shakspeare gallery engravings, which did. I have a community
of feeling with my countrymen about his Plays, and I like those editions of him best, which
have been oftenest tumbled about and handled.--On the contrary, I cannot read Beaumont and
Fletcher but in Folio. The Octavo editions are painful to look at. I have no sympathy with
them. If they were as much read as the current editions of the other poet, I should prefer
them in that shape to the older one. I do not know a more heartless sight than the reprint
of the Anatomy of Melancholy. What need was there of unearthing the bones of that fantastic
old great man, to expose them in a winding-sheet of the newest fashion to modern censure? what
hapless stationer could dream of Burton ever becoming popular?--The wretched Malone could not
do worse, when he bribed the sexton of Stratford church to let him white-wash the painted effigy
of old Shakspeare, which stood there, in rude but lively fashion depicted, to the very colour
of the cheek, the eye, the eye-brow, hair, the very dress he used to wear--the only authentic
testimony we had, however imperfect, of these curious parts and parcels of him. They covered
him over with a coat of white paint. By ----, if I had been a justice of peace for Warwickshire,
I would have clapt both commentator and sexton fast in the stocks, for a pair of meddling sacrilegious
varlets.

I think I see them at their work--these sapient trouble-tombs.

Shall I be thought fantastical, if I confess, that the names of some of our poets sound sweeter,
and have a finer relish to the ear--to mine, at least--than that of Milton or of Shakspeare?
It may be, that the latter are more staled and rung upon in common discourse. The sweetest
names, and which carry a perfume in the mention, are, Kit Marlowe, Drayton, Drummond of Hawthornden,
and Cowley.

Much depends upon when and where you read a book. In the five or six impatient minutes, before
the dinner is quite ready, who would think of taking up the Fairy Queen for a stop-gap, or
a volume of Bishop Andrewes' sermons?

Milton almost requires a solemn service of music to be played before you enter upon him. But
he brings his music, to which, who listens, had need bring docile thoughts, and purged ears.

Winter evenings--the world shut out--with less of ceremony the gentle Shakspeare enters. At
such a season, the Tempest, or his own Winter's Tale--

These two poets you cannot avoid reading aloud--to yourself, or (as it chances) to some single
person listening. More than one--and it degenerates into an audience.

Books of quick interest, that hurry on for incidents, are for the eye to glide over only. It
will not do to read them out. I could never listen to even the better kind of modern novels
without extreme irksomeness.

A newspaper, read out, is intolerable. In some of the Bank offices it is the custom (to save
so much individual time) for one of the clerks--who is the best scholar--to commence upon the
Times, or the Chronicle, and recite its entire contents aloud pro bono publico. With every
advantage of lungs and elocution, the effect is singularly vapid. In barbers' shops and public-houses
a fellow will get up, and spell out a paragraph, which he communicates as some discovery. Another
follows with his selection. So the entire journal transpires at length by piece-meal. Seldom-readers
are slow readers, and, without this expedient no one in the company would probably ever travel
through the contents of a whole paper.

Newspapers always excite curiosity. No one ever lays one down without a feeling of disappointment.

What an eternal time that gentleman in black, at Nando's, keeps the paper! I am sick of hearing
the waiter bawling out incessantly, "the Chronicle is in hand, Sir."

Coming in to an inn at night--having ordered your supper--what can be more delightful than
to find lying in the window-seat, left there time out of mind by the carelessness of some former
guest--two or three numbers of the old Town and Country Magazine, with its amusing tête-à-tête
pictures--"The Royal Lover and Lady G----;" "The Melting Platonic and the old Beau,"--and such
like antiquated scandal? Would you exchange it--at that time, and in that place--for a better book?

Poor Tobin, who latterly fell blind, did not regret it so much for the weightier kinds of reading--the
Paradise Lost, or Comus, he could have read to him--but he missed the pleasure of skimming
over with his own eye a magazine, or a light pamphlet.

I should not care to be caught in the serious avenues of some cathedral alone, and reading Candide.

I do not remember a more whimsical surprise than having been once detected--by a familiar damsel--reclined
at my ease upon the grass, on Primrose Hill (her Cythera), reading--Pamela. There was nothing
in the book to make a man seriously ashamed at the exposure; but as she seated herself down
by me, and seemed determined to read in company, I could have wished it had been--any other
book. We read on very sociably for a few pages; and, not finding the author much to her taste,
she got up, and--went away. Gentle casuist, I leave it to thee to conjecture, whether the blush
(for there was one between us) was the property of the nymph or the swain in this dilemma.
From me you shall never get the secret.

I am not much a friend to out-of-doors reading. I cannot settle my spirits to it. I knew a
Unitarian minister, who was generally to be seen upon Snow-hill (as yet Skinner's-street was
not), between the hours of ten and eleven in the morning, studying a volume of Lardner. I own
this to have been a strain of abstraction beyond my reach. I used to admire how he sidled along,
keeping clear of secular contacts. An illiterate encounter with a porter's knot, or a bread
basket, would have quickly put to flight all the theology I am master of, and have left me
worse than indifferent to the five points. Venturing tenderly, page after page, expecting every
moment when he shall interpose his interdict, and yet unable to deny themselves the gratification,
they "snatch a fearful joy." Martin B----, in this way, by daily fragments, got through two
volumes of Clarissa, when the stall-keeper damped his laudable ambition, by asking him (it
was in his younger days) whether he meant to purchase the work. M. declares, that under no
circumstances of his life did he ever peruse a book with half the satisfaction which he took
in those uneasy snatches. A quaint poetess of our day has moralised upon this subject in two
very touching but homely stanzas.

THE OLD MARGATE HOY

I am fond of passing my vacations (I believe I have said so before) at one or other of the
Universities. Next to these my choice would fix me at some woody spot, such as the neighbourhood
of Henley affords in abundance, upon the banks of my beloved Thames. But somehow or other my
cousin contrives to wheedle me once in three or four seasons to a watering place. Old attachments
cling to her in spite of experience. We have been dull at Worthing one summer, duller at Brighton
another, dullest at Eastbourn a third, and are at this moment doing dreary penance at--Hastings!--and
all because we were happy many years ago for a brief week at--Margate. That was our first sea-side
experiment, and many circumstances combined to make it the most agreeable holyday of my life.
We had neither of us seen the sea, and we had never been from home so long together in company.

Can I forget thee, thou old Margate Hoy, with thy weather-beaten, sun-burnt captain, and his
rough accommodations--ill exchanged for the foppery and fresh-water niceness of the modern
steam-packet? To the winds and waves thou committedst thy goodly freightage, and didst ask
no aid of magic fumes, and spells, and boiling cauldrons. With the gales of heaven thou wentest
swimmingly; or, when it was their pleasure, stoodest still with sailor-like patience. Thy course
was natural, not forced, as in a hot-bed; nor didst thou go poisoning the breath of ocean with
sulphureous smoke--a great sea-chimæra, chimneying and furnacing the deep; or liker to that
fire-god parching up Scamander.

Can I forget thy honest, yet slender crew, with their coy reluctant responses (yet to the suppression
of anything like contempt, to the raw questions, which we of the great city would be ever and
anon putting to them, as to the uses of this or that strange naval implement?) 'Specially can
I forget thee, thou happy medium, thou shade of refuge between us and them, conciliating interpreter
of their skill to our simplicity, comfortable ambassador between sea and land!--whose sailor-trowsers
did not more convincingly assure thee to be an adopted denizen of the former, than thy white
cap, and whiter apron over them, with thy neat-fingered practice in thy culinary vocation,
bespoke thee to have been of inland nurture heretofore--a master cook of Eastcheap? How busily
didst thou ply thy multifarious occupation, cook, mariner, attendant, chamberlain; here, there,
like another Ariel, flaming at once about all parts of the deck, yet with kindlier ministrations--not
to assist the tempest, but, as if touched with a kindred sense of our infirmities, to soothe
the qualms which that untried motion might haply raise in our crude land-fancies. And when
the o'er-washing billows drove us below deck (for it was far gone in October, and we had stiff
and blowing weather) how did thy officious ministerings, still catering for our comfort, with
cards, and cordials, and thy more cordial conversation, alleviate the closeness and the confinement
of thy else (truth to say) not very savoury, nor very inviting, little cabin!

With these additaments to boot, we had on board a fellow-passenger, whose discourse in verity
might have beguiled a longer voyage than we meditated, and have made mirth and wonder abound
as far as the Azores. He was a dark, Spanish complexioned young man, remarkably handsome, with
an officer-like assurance, and an insuppressible volubility of assertion. He was, in fact,
the greatest liar I had met with then, or since. He was none of your hesitating, half story-tellers
(a most painful description of mortals) who go on sounding your belief, and only giving you
as much as they see you can swallow at a time--the nibbling pickpockets of your patience--but
one who committed downright, daylight depredations upon his neighbour's faith. He did not stand
shivering upon the brink, but was a hearty thoroughpaced liar, and plunged at once into the
depths of your credulity. I partly believe, he made pretty sure of his company. Not many rich,
not many wise, or learned, composed at that time the common stowage of a Margate packet. We
were, I am afraid, a set of as unseasoned Londoners (let our enemies give it a worse name)
as Aldermanbury, or Watling-street, at that time of day could have supplied. There might be
an exception or two among us, but I scorn to make any invidious distinctions among such a jolly,
companionable ship's company, as those were whom I sailed with. Something too must be conceded
to the Genius Loci. Had the confident fellow told us half the legends on land, which he favoured
us with on the other element, I flatter myself the good sense of most of us would have revolted.
But we were in a new world, with everything unfamiliar about us, and the time and place disposed
us to the reception of any prodigious marvel whatsoever. Time has obliterated from my memory
much of his wild fablings; and the rest would appear but dull, as written, and to be read on
shore. He had been Aid-de-camp (among other rare accidents and fortunes) to a Persian prince,
and at one blow had stricken off the head of the King of Carimania on horseback. He, of course,
married the Prince's daughter. I forget what unlucky turn in the politics of that court, combining
with the loss of his consort, was the reason of his quitting Persia; but with the rapidity
of a magician he transported himself, along with his hearers, back to England, where we still
found him in the confidence of great ladies. There was some story of a Princess--Elizabeth,
if I remember--having intrusted to his care an extraordinary casket of jewels, upon some extraordinary
occasion--but as I am not certain of the name or circumstance at this distance of time, I must
leave it to the Royal daughters of England to settle the honour among themselves in private.
I cannot call to mind half his pleasant wonders; but I perfectly remember, that in the course
of his travels he had seen a phoenix; and he obligingly undeceived us of the vulgar error,
that there is but one of that species at a time, assuring us that they were not uncommon in
some parts of Upper Egypt. Hitherto he had found the most implicit listeners. His dreaming
fancies had transported us beyond the "ignorant present." But when (still hardying more and
more in his triumphs over our simplicity) he went on to affirm that he had actually sailed
through the legs of the Colossus at Rhodes, it really became necessary to make a stand. And
here I must do justice to the good sense and intrepidity of one of our party, a youth, that
had hitherto been one of his most deferential auditors, who, from his recent reading, made
bold to assure the gentleman, that there must be some mistake, as "the Colossus in question
had been destroyed long since;" to whose opinion, delivered with all modesty, our hero was
obliging enough to concede thus much, that "the figure was indeed a little damaged." This was
the only opposition he met with, and it did not at all seem to stagger him, for he proceeded
with his fables, which the same youth appeared to swallow with still more complacency than
ever,--confirmed, as it were, by the extreme candour of that concession. With these prodigies
he wheedled us on till we came in sight of the Reculvers, which one of our own company (having
been the vogage before) immediately recognising, and pointing out to us, was considered by
us as no ordinary seaman.

All this time sat upon the edge of the deck quite a different character. It was a lad, apparently
very poor, very infirm, and very patient. His eye was ever on the sea, with a smile: and, if
he caught now and then some snatches of these wild legends, it was by accident, and they seemed
not to concern him. The waves to him whispered more pleasant stories. He was as one, being
with us, but not of us. He heard the bell of dinner ring without stirring; and when some of
us pulled out our private stores--our cold meat and our salads--he produced none, and seemed
to want none. Only a solitary biscuit he had laid in; provision for the one or two days and
nights, to which these vessels then were oftentimes obliged to prolong their voyage Upon a
nearer acquaintance with him, which he seemed neither to court nor decline, we learned that
he was going to Margate, with the hope of being admitted into the Infirmary there for sea-bathing.
His disease was a scrofula, which appeared to have eaten all over him. He expressed great hopes
of a cure; and when we asked him, whether he had any friends where he was going, he replied,
"he had no friends."

These pleasant, and some mournful passages, with the first sight of the sea, co-operating with
youth, and a sense of holydays, and out-of-door adventure, to me that had been pent up in populous
cities for many months before,--have left upon my mind the fragrance as of summer days gone
by, bequeathing nothing but their remembrance for cold and wintry hours to chew upon.

Will it be thought a digression (it may spare some unwelcome comparisons), if I endeavour to
account for the dissatisfaction which I have heard so many persons confess to have felt (as
I did myself feel in part on this occasion), at the sight of the sea for the first time? I
think the reason usually given--referring to the incapacity of actual objects for satisfying
our preconceptions of them--scarcely goes deep enough into the question. Let the same person
see a lion, an elephant, a mountain, for the first time in his life, and he shall perhaps feel
himself a little mortified. The things do not fill up that space, which the idea of them seemed
to take up in his mind. But they have still a correspondency to his first notion, and in time
grow up to it, so as to produce a very similar impression: enlarging themselves (if I may say
so) upon familiarity. But the sea remains a disappointment.--Is it not, that in the latter
we had expected to behold (absurdly, I grant, but, I am afraid, by the law of imagination unavoidably)
not a definite object, as those wild beasts, or that mountain compassable by the eye, but all
the sea at once, THE COMMENSURATE ANTAGONIST OF THE EARTH! I do not say we, tell ourselves
so much, but the craving of the mind is to be satisfied with nothing less. I will suppose the
case of a young person of fifteen (as I then was) knowing nothing of the sea, but from description.
He comes to it for the first time--all that he has been reading of it all his life, and that
the most enthusiastic part of life,--all he has gathered from narratives of wandering seamen;
what he has gained from true voyages, and what he cherishes as credulously from romance and
poetry; crowding their images, and exacting strange tributes from expectation.--He thinks of
the great deep, and of those who go down unto it; of its thousand isles, and of the vast continents
it washes; of its receiving the mighty Plata, or Orellana, into its bosom, without disturbance,
or sense of augmentation; of Biscay swells, and the mariner

  For many a day, and many a dreadful night,
  Incessant labouring round the stormy Cape;

of fatal rocks, and the "still-vexed Bermoothes;" of great whirlpools, and the water-spout;
of sunken ships, and sumless treasures swallowed up in the unrestoring depths: of fishes and
quaint monsters, to which all that is terrible on earth--

  Be but as buggs to frighten babes withal,
  Compared with the creatures in the sea's entral;

of naked savages, and Juan Fernandez; of pearls, and shells; of coral beds, and of enchanted
isles; of mermaids' grots--

I do not assert that in sober earnest he expects to be shown all these wonders at once, but
he is under the tyranny of a mighty faculty, which haunts him with confused hints and shadows
of all these; and when the actual object opens first upon him, seen (in tame weather too most
likely) from our unromantic coasts--a speck, a slip of sea-water, as it shows to him--what
can it prove but a very unsatisfying and even diminutive entertainment? Or if he has come to
it from the mouth of a river, was it much more than the river widening? and, even out of sight
of land, what had he but a flat watery horizon about him, nothing comparable to the vast o'er-curtaining
sky, his familiar object, seen daily without dread or amazement?--Who, in similar circumstances,
has not been tempted to exclaim with Charoba, in the poem of Gebir,--

  Is this the mighty ocean?--is this all?

I love town, or country; but this detestable Cinque Port is neither. I hate these scrubbed
shoots, thrusting out their starved foliage from between the horrid fissures of dusty innutritious
rocks; which the amateur calls "verdure to the edge of the sea." I require woods, and they
show me stunted coppices. I cry out for the water-brooks, and pant for fresh streams, and inland
murmurs. I cannot stand all day on the naked beach, watching the capricious hues of the sea,
shifting like the colours of a dying mullet. I am tired of looking out at the windows of this
island-prison. I would fain retire into the interior of my cage. While I gaze upon the sea,
I want to be on it, over it, across it. It binds me in with chains, as of iron. My thoughts
are abroad. I should not so feel in Staffordshire. There is no home for me here. There is no
sense of home at Hastings. It is a place of fugitive resort, an heterogeneous assemblage of
sea-mews and stock-brokers, Amphitrites of the town, and misses that coquet with the Ocean.
If it were what it was in its primitive shape, and what it ought to have remained, a fair honest
fishing town, and no more, it were something--with a few straggling fishermen's huts scattered
about, artless as its cliffs, and with their materials filched from them, it were something.
I could abide to dwell with Meschek; to assort with fisher-swains, and smugglers. There are,
or I dream there are, many of this latter occupation here. Their faces become the place. I
like a smuggler. He is the only honest thief. He robs nothing but the revenue,--an abstraction
I never greatly cared about. I could go out with them in their mackarel boats, or about their
less ostensible business, with some satisfaction. I can even tolerate those poor victims to
monotony, who from day to day pace along the beach, in endless progress and recurrence, to
watch their illicit countrymen--townsfolk or brethren perchance--whistling to the sheathing
and unsheathing of their cutlasses (their only solace), who under the mild name of preventive
service, keep up a legitimated civil warfare in the deplorable absence of a foreign one, to
show their detestation of run hollands, and zeal for old England. But it is the visitants from
town, that come here to say that they have been here, with no more relish of the sea than a
pond perch, or a dace might be supposed to have, that are my aversion. I feel like a foolish
dace in these regions, and have as little toleration for myself here, as for them. What can
they want here? if they had a true relish of the ocean, why have they brought all this land
luggage with them? or why pitch their civilised tents in the desert? What mean these scanty
book-rooms--marine libraries as they entitle them--if the sea were, as they would have us believe,
a book "to read strange matter in?" what are their foolish concert-rooms, if they come, as
they would fain be thought to do, to listen to the music of the waves? All is false and hollow
pretention. They come, because it is the fashion, and to spoil the nature of the place. They
are mostly, as I have said, stockbrokers; but I have watched the better sort of them--now and
then, an honest citizen (of the old stamp), in the simplicity of his heart, shall bring down
his wife and daughters, to taste the sea breezes. I always know the date of their arrival.
It is easy to see it in their countenance. A day or two they go wandering on the shingles,
picking up cockleshells, and thinking them great things; but, in a poor week, imagination slackens:
they begin to discover that cockles produce no pearls, and then--O then!--if I could interpret
for the pretty creatures (I know they have not the courage to confess it themselves) how gladly
would they exchange their sea-side rambles for a Sunday walk on the green-sward of their accustomed
Twickenham meadows!

I would ask of one of these sea-charmed emigrants, who think they truly love the sea, with
its wild usages, what would their feelings be, if some of the unsophisticated aborigines of
this place, encouraged by their courteous questionings here, should venture, on the faith of
such assured sympathy between them, to return the visit, and come up to see--London. I must
imagine them with their fishing tackle on their back, as we carry our town necessaries. What
a sensation would it cause in Lothbury? What vehement laughter would it not excite among

  The daughters of Cheapside, and wives of Lombard-street.

I am sure that no town-bred, or inland-born subjects, can feel their true and natural nourishment
at these sea-places. Nature, where she does not mean us for mariners and vagabonds, bids us
stay at home. The salt foam seems to nourish a spleen. I am not half so good-natured as by
the milder waters of my natural river. I would exchange these sea-gulls for swans, and scud
a swallow for ever about the banks of Thamesis.

THE CONVALESCENT

A pretty severe fit of indisposition which, under the name of a nervous fever, has made a prisoner
of me for some weeks past, and is but slowly leaving me, has reduced me to an incapacity of
reflecting upon any topic foreign to itself. Expect no healthy conclusions from me this month,
reader; I can offer you only sick men's dreams.

And truly the whole state of sickness is such; for what else is it but a magnificent dream
for a man to lie a-bed, and draw day-light curtains about him; and, shutting out the sun, to
induce a total oblivion of all the works which are going on under it? To become insensible
to all the operations of life, except the beatings of one feeble pulse?

If there be a regal solitude, it is a sick bed. How the patient lords it there! what caprices
he acts without controul! how kinglike he sways his pillow--tumbling, and tossing, and shifting,
and lowering, and thumping, and flatting, and moulding it, to the ever varying requisitions
of his throbbing temples.

He changes sides oftener than a politician. Now he lies full length, then half-length, obliquely,
transversely, head and feet quite across the bed; and none accuses him of tergiversation. Within
the four curtains he is absolute. They are his Mare Clausum.

How sickness enlarges the dimensions of a man's self to himself! he is his own exclusive object.
Supreme selfishness is inculcated upon him as his only duty. 'Tis the Two Tables of the Law
to him. He has nothing to think of but how to get well. What passes out of doors, or within
them, so he hear not the jarring of them, affects him not.

A little while ago he was greatly concerned in the event of a law-suit, which was to be the
making or the marring of his dearest friend. He was to be seen trudging about upon this man's
errand to fifty quarters of the town at once, jogging this witness, refreshing that solicitor.
The cause was to come on yesterday. He is absolutely as indifferent to the decision, as if
it were a question to be tried at Pekin. Peradventure from some whispering, going on about
the house, not intended for his hearing, he picks up enough to make him understand, that things
went cross-grained in the Court yesterday, and his friend is ruined. But the word "friend,"
and the word "ruin," disturb him no more than so much jargon. He is not to think of any thing
but how to get better.

What a world of foreign cares are merged in that absorbing consideration!

He has put on the strong armour of sickness, he is wrapped in the callous hide of suffering;
he keeps his sympathy, like some curious vintage, under trusty lock and key, for his own use only.

He lies pitying himself, honing and moaning to himself; he yearneth over himself; his bowels
are even melted within him, to think what he suffers; he is not ashamed to weep over himself.

He is for ever plotting how to do some good to himself; studying little stratagems and artificial
alleviations.

He makes the most of himself; dividing himself, by an allowable fiction, into as many distinct
individuals, as he hath sore and sorrowing members. Sometimes he meditates--as of a thing apart
from him--upon his poor aching head, and that dull pain which, dozing or waking, lay in it
all the past night like a log, or palpable substance of pain, not to be removed without opening
the very scull, as it seemed, to take it thence. Or he pities his long, clammy, attenuated
fingers. He compassionates himself all over; and his bed is a very discipline of humanity,
and tender heart.

He is his own sympathiser; and instinctively feels that none can so well perform that office
for him. He cares for few spectators to his tragedy. Only that punctual face of the old nurse
pleases him, that announces his broths, and his cordials. He likes it because it is so unmoved,
and because he can pour forth his feverish ejaculations before it as unreservedly as to his
bed-post.

To the world's business he is dead. He understands not what the callings and occupations of
mortals are; only he has a glimmering conceit of some such thing, when the doctor makes his
daily call: and even in the lines of that busy face he reads no multiplicity of patients, but
solely conceives of himself as the sick man. To what other uneasy couch the good man is hastening,
when he slips out of his chamber, folding up his thin douceur so carefully for fear of rustling--is
no speculation which he can at present entertain. He thinks only of the regular return of the
same phenomenon at the same hour to-morrow.

Household rumours touch him not. Some faint murmur, indicative of life going on within the
house, soothes him, while he knows not distinctly what it is. He is not to know any thing,
not to think of any thing. Servants gliding up or down the distant staircase, treading as upon
velvet, gently keep his ear awake, so long as he troubles not himself further than with some
feeble guess at their errands. Exacter knowledge would be a burthen to him: he can just endure
the pressure of conjecture. He opens his eye faintly at the dull stroke of the muffled knocker,
and closes it again without asking "who was it?" He is flattered by a general notion that inquiries
are making after him, but he cares not to know the name of the inquirer. In the general stillness,
and awful hush of the house, he lies in state, and feels his sovereignty.

To be sick is to enjoy monarchal prerogatives. Compare the silent tread, and quiet ministry,
almost by the eye only, with which he is served--with the careless demeanour, the unceremonious
goings in and out (slapping of doors, or leaving them open) of the very same attendants, when
he is getting a little better--and you will confess, that from the bed of sickness (throne
let me rather call it) to the elbow chair of convalescence, is a fall from dignity, amounting
to a deposition.

How convalescence shrinks a man back to his pristine stature! where is now the space, which
he occupied so lately, in his own, in the family's eye? The scene of his regalities, his sick
room, which was his presence chamber, where he lay and acted his despotic fancies--how is it
reduced to a common bedroom! The trimness of the very bed has something petty and unmeaning
about it. It is made every day. How unlike to that wavy, many-furrowed, oceanic surface, which
it presented so short a time since, when to make it was a service not to be thought of at oftener
than three or four day revolutions, when the patient was with pain and grief to be lifted for
a little while out of it, to submit to the encroachments of unwelcome neatness, and decencies
which his shaken frame deprecated; then to be lifted into it again, for another three or four
days' respite, to flounder it out of shape again, while every fresh furrow was a historical
record of some shifting posture, some uneasy turning, some seeking for a little ease; and the
shrunken skin scarce told a truer story than the crumpled coverlid.

Hushed are those mysterious sighs--those groans--so much more awful, while we knew not from
what caverns of vast hidden suffering they proceeded. The Lernean pangs are quenched. The riddle
of sickness is solved; and Philoctetes is become an ordinary personage.

Perhaps some relic of the sick man's dream of greatness survives in the still lingering visitations
of the medical attendant. But how is he too changed with everything else! Can this be he--this
man of news--of chat--of anecdote--of every thing but physic--can this be he, who so lately
came between the patient and his cruel enemy, as on some solemn embassy from Nature, erecting
herself into a high mediating party? Pshaw!'tis some old woman.

Farewell with him all that made sickness pompous--the spell that hushed the household--the
desart-like stillness, felt throughout its inmost chambers--the mute attendance--the inquiry
by looks--the still softer delicacies of self-attention--the sole and single eye of distemper
alonely fixed upon itself--world-thoughts excluded--the man a world unto himself--his own theatre--

  What a speck is he dwindled into! The summons, unseasonable as it appeared, seemed to
link me on again to the petty businesses of life, which I had lost
sight of; a gentle call to activity, however trivial; a wholesome
weaning from that preposterous dream of self-absorption--the puffy
state of sickness--in which I confess to have lain so long, insensible
to the magazines and monarchies, of the world alike; to its laws, and
to its literature. The hypochondriac flatus is subsiding; the acres,
which in imagination I had spread over--for the sick man swells in
the sole contemplation of his single sufferings, till he becomes
a Tityus to himself--are wasting to a span; and for the giant of
self-importance, which I was so lately, you have me once again in my
natural pretensions--the lean and meagre figure of your insignificant
Essayist.

SANITY OF TRUE GENIUS

So far from the position holding true, that great wit (or genius, in our modern way of speaking),
has a necessary alliance with insanity, the greatest wits, on the contrary, will ever be found
to be the sanest writers. It is impossible for the mind to conceive of a mad Shakspeare. The
greatness of wit, by which the poetic talent is here chiefly to be understood, manifests itself
in the admirable balance of all the faculties. Madness is the disproportionate straining or
excess of any one of them. "So strong a wit," says Cowley, speaking of a poetical friend,

  "--did Nature to him frame,
  As all things but his judgment overcame,
  His judgment like the heavenly moon did show,
  Tempering that mighty sea below." From beyond the scope of
Nature if he summon possible existences, he subjugates them to the
law of her consistency. He is beautifully loyal to that sovereign
directress, even when he appears most to betray and desert her. His
ideal tribes submit to policy; his very monsters are tamed to his
hand, even as that wild sea-brood, shepherded by Proteus. He tames,
and he clothes them with attributes of flesh and blood, till they
wonder at themselves, like Indian Islanders forced to submit to
European vesture. Caliban, the Witches, are as true to the laws of
their own nature (ours with a difference), as Othello, Hamlet, and
Macbeth. Herein the great and the little wits are differenced; that if
the latter wander ever so little from nature or actual existence, they
lose themselves, and their readers. Their phantoms are lawless; their
visions nightmares. They do not create, which implies shaping and
consistency. Their imaginations are not active--for to be active is to
call something into act and form--but passive, as men in sick dreams.
For the super-natural, or something super-added to what we know of
nature, they give you the plainly non-natural. And if this were all,
and that these mental hallucinations were discoverable only in the
treatment of subjects out of nature, or transcending it, the judgment
might with some plea be pardoned if it ran riot, and a little
wantonized: but even in the describing of real and every day life,
that which is before their eyes, one of these lesser wits shall more
deviate from nature--show more of that inconsequence, which has a
natural alliance with frenzy,--than a great genius in his "maddest
fits," as Withers somewhere calls them. We appeal to any one that is
acquainted with the common run of Lane's novels,--as they existed some
twenty or thirty years back,--those scanty intellectual viands of the
whole female reading public, till a happier genius arose, and expelled
for ever the innutritious phantoms,--whether he has not found his
brain more "betossed," his memory more puzzled, his sense of when and
where more confounded, among the improbable events, the incoherent
incidents, the inconsistent characters, or no-characters, of some
third-rate love intrigue--where the persons shall be a Lord Glendamour
and a Miss Rivers, and the scene only alternate between Bath and
Bond-street--a more bewildering dreaminess induced upon him, than
he has felt wandering over all the fairy grounds of Spenser. In the
productions we refer to, nothing but names and places is familiar; the
persons are neither of this world nor of any other conceivable one; an
endless string of activities without purpose, of purposes destitute
of motive:--we meet phantoms in our known walks; fantasques only
christened. In the poet we have names which announce fiction; and we
have absolutely no place at all, for the things and persons of the
Fairy Queen prate not of their "whereabout." But in their inner
nature, and the law of their speech and actions, we are at home and
upon acquainted ground. The one turns life into a dream; the other to
the wildest dreams gives the sobrieties of every day occurrences. By
what subtile art of tracing the mental processes it is effected, we
are not philosophers enough to explain, but in that wonderful episode
of the cave of Mammon, in which the Money God appears first in the
lowest form of a miser, is then a worker of metals, and becomes the
god of all the treasures of the world; and has a daughter, Ambition,
before whom all the world kneels for favours--with the Hesperian
fruit, the waters of Tantalus, with Pilate washing his hands vainly,
but not impertinently, in the same stream--that we should be at one
moment in the cave of an old hoarder of treasures, at the next at the
forge of the Cyclops, in a palace and yet in hell, all at once, with
the shifting mutations of the most rambling dream, and our judgment
yet all the time awake, and neither able nor willing to detect the
fallacy,--is a proof of that hidden sanity which still guides the poet
in his widest seeming-aberrations.

CAPTAIN JACKSON

Among the deaths in our obituary for this month, I observe with concern "At his cottage on
the Bath road, Captain Jackson." The name and attribution are common enough; but a feeling
like reproach persuades me, that this could have been no other in fact than my dear old friend,
who some five-and-twenty years ago rented a tenement, which he was pleased to dignify with
the appellation here used, about a mile from Westbourn Green. Alack, how good men, and the
good turns they do us, slide out of memory, and are recalled but by the surprise of some such
sad memento as that which now lies before us!

He whom I mean was a retired half-pay officer, with a wife and two grown-up daughters, whom
he maintained with the port and notions of gentlewomen upon that slender professional allowance.
Comely girls they were too.

And was I in danger of forgetting this man?--his cheerful suppers--the noble tone of hospitality,
when first you set your foot in the cottage--the anxious ministerings about you, where little
or nothing (God knows) was to be ministered.--Althea's horn in a poor platter--the power of
self-enchantment, by which, in his magnificent wishes to entertain you, he multiplied his means
to bounties.

You saw with your bodily eyes indeed what seemed a bare scrag--cold savings from the foregone
meal--remnant hardly sufficient to send a mendicant from the door contented. But in the copious
will--the revelling imagination of your host--the "mind, the mind, Master Shallow," whole beeves
were spread before you--hecatombs--no end appeared to the profusion.

It was the widow's cruse--the loaves and fishes; carving could not lessen nor helping diminish
it--the stamina were left--the elemental bone still flourished, divested of its accidents.

"Let us live while we can," methinks I hear the open-handed creature exclaim; "while we have,
let us not want," "here is plenty left;" "want for nothing"--with many more such hospitable
sayings, the spurs of appetite, and old concomitants of smoaking boards, and feast-oppressed
chargers. Then sliding a slender ratio of Single Gloucester upon his wife's plate, or the daughter's,
he would convey the remanent rind into his own, with a merry quirk of "the nearer the bone,"
&c., and declaring that he universally preferred the outside. For we had our table distinctions,
you are to know, and some of us in a manner sate above the salt. None but his guest or guests
dreamed of tasting flesh luxuries at night, the fragments were verè hospilibus sacra. But of
one thing or another there was always enough, and leavings: only he would sometimes finish
the remainder crust, to show that he wished no savings.

Wine he had none; nor, except on very rare occasions, spirits; but the sensation of wine was
there. Some thin kind of ale I remember--"British beverage," he would say! "Push about, my
boys;" "Drink to your sweethearts, girls." At every meagre draught a toast must ensue, or a
song. All the forms of good liquor were there, with none of the effects wanting. Shut your
eyes, and you would swear a capacious bowl of punch was foaming in the centre, with beams of
generous Port or Madeira radiating to it from each of the table corners. You got flustered,
without knowing whence; tipsy upon words; and reeled under the potency of his unperforming
Bacchanalian encouragements.

We had our songs--"Why, Soldiers, Why"--and the "British Grenadiers"--in which last we were
all obliged to bear chorus. Both the daughters sang. Their proficiency was a nightly theme--the
masters he had given them--the "no-expence" which he spared to accomplish them in a science
"so necessary to young women." But then--they could not sing "without the instrument."

Sacred, and by me, never-to-be violated, Secrets of Poverty! Should I disclose your honest
aims at grandeur, your make-shift efforts of magnificence? Sleep, sleep, with all thy broken
keys, if one of the bunch be extant; thrummed by a thousand ancestral thumbs; dear, cracked
spinnet of dearer Louisa! Without mention of mine, be dumb, thou thin accompanier of her thinner
warble! A veil be spread over the dear delighted face of the well-deluded father, who now haply
listening to cherubic notes, scarce feels sincerer pleasure than when she awakened thy time-shaken
chords responsive to the twitterings of that slender image of a voice.

We were not without our literary talk either. It did not extend far, but as far as it went,
it was good. It was bottomed well; had good grounds to go upon. In the cottage was a room,
which tradition authenticated to have been the same in which Glover, in his occasional retirements,
had penned the greater part of his Leonidas. This circumstance was nightly quoted, though none
of the present inmates, that I could discover, appeared ever to have met with the poem in question.
But that was no matter. Glover had written there, and the anecdote was pressed into the account
of the family importance. It diffused a learned air through the apartment, the little side
casement of which (the poet's study window), opening upon a superb view as far as to the pretty
spire of Harrow, over domains and patrimonial acres, not a rood nor square yard whereof our
host could call his own, yet gave occasion to an immoderate expansion of--vanity shall I call
it?--in his bosom, as he showed them in a glowing summer evening. It was all his, he took it
all in, and communicated rich portions of it to his guests. It was a part of his largess, his
hospitality; it was going over his grounds; he was lord for the time of showing them, and you
the implicit lookers-up to his magnificence.

He was a juggler, who threw mists before your eyes--you had no time to detect his fallacies.
He would say "hand me the silver sugar tongs;" and, before you could discover it was a single
spoon, and that plated, he would disturb and captivate your imagination by a misnomer of "the
urn" for a tea kettle; or by calling a homely bench a sofa. Rich men direct you to their furniture,
poor ones divert you from it; he neither did one nor the other, but by simply assuming that
everything was handsome about him, you were positively at a demur what you did, or did not
see, at the cottage. With nothing to live on, he seemed to live on everything. He had a stock
of wealth in his mind; not that which is properly termed Content, for in truth he was not to
be contained at all, but overflowed all bounds by the force of a magnificent self-delusion.

Enthusiasm is catching; and even his wife, a sober native of North Britain, who generally saw
things more as they were, was not proof against the continual collision of his credulity. Her
daughters were rational and discreet young women; in the main, perhaps, not insensible to their
true circumstances. I have seen them assume a thoughtful air at times. But such was the preponderating
opulence of his fancy, that I am persuaded, not for any half hour together, did they ever look
their own prospects fairly in the face. There was no resisting the vortex of his temperament.
His riotous imagination conjured up handsome settlements before their eyes, which kept them
up in the eye of the world too, and seem at last to have realised themselves; for they both
have married since, I am told, more than respectably.

It is long since, and my memory waxes dim on some subjects, or I should wish to convey some
notion of the manner in which the pleasant creature described the circumstances of his own
wedding-day. I faintly remember something of a chaise and four, in which he made his entry
into Glasgow on that morning to fetch the bride home, or carry her thither, I forget which.
It so completely made out the stanza of the old ballad--

  When we came down through Glasgow town,
   We were a comely sight to see;
  My love was clad in black velve,
   And I myself in cramasie.

I suppose it was the only occasion, upon which his own actual splendour at all corresponded
with the world's notions on that subject. In homely cart, or travelling caravan, by whatever
humble vehicle they chanced to be transported in less prosperous days, the ride through Glasgow
came back upon his fancy, not as a humiliating contrast, but as a fair occasion for reverting
to that one day's state. It seemed an "equipage etern" from which no power of fate or fortune,
once mounted, had power thereafter to dislodge him.

THE SUPERANNUATED MAN

  Sera tamen respexit
  Libertas.

  VIRGIL.

  A Clerk I was in London gay.

  O'KEEFE.

If peradventure, Reader, it has been thy lot to waste the golden years of thy life--thy shining
youth--in the irksome confinement of an office; to have thy prison days prolonged through middle
age down to decrepitude and silver hairs, without hope of release or respite; to have lived
to forget that there are such things as holidays, or to remember them but as the prerogatives
of childhood; then, and then only, will you be able to appreciate my deliverance.

It is now six and thirty years since I took my seat at the desk in Mincing-lane. Melancholy
was the transition at fourteen from the abundant play-time, and the frequently-intervening
vacations of school days, to the eight, nine, and sometimes ten hours' a-day attendance at
a counting-house. But time partially reconciles us to anything. I gradually became content--doggedly
contented, as wild animals in cages.

It is true I had my Sundays to myself; but Sundays, admirable as the institution of them is
for purposes of worship, are for that very reason the very worst adapted for days of unbending
and recreation. In particular, there is a gloom for me attendant upon a city Sunday, a weight
in the air. I miss the cheerful cries of London, the music, and the ballad-singers--the buzz
and stirring murmur of the streets. Those eternal bells depress me. The closed shops repel
me. Prints, pictures, all the glittering and endless succession of knacks and gewgaws, and
ostentatiously displayed wares of tradesmen, which make a week-day saunter through the less
busy parts of the metropolis so delightful--are shut out. No book-stalls deliciously to idle
over--No busy faces to recreate the idle man who contemplates them ever passing by--the very
face of business a charm by contrast to his temporary relaxation from it. Nothing to be seen
but unhappy countenances--or half-happy at best--of emancipated 'prentices and little trades-folks,
with here and there a servant maid that has got leave to go out, who, slaving all the week,
with the habit has lost almost the capacity of enjoying a free hour; and livelily expressing
the hollowness of a day's pleasuring. The very strollers in the fields on that day look anything
but comfortable.

But besides Sundays I had a day at Easter, and a day at Christmas, with a full week in the
summer to go and air myself in my native fields of Hertfordshire. This last was a great indulgence;
and the prospect of its recurrence, I believe, alone kept me up through the year, and made
my durance tolerable. But when the week came round, did the glittering phantom of the distance
keep touch with me? or rather was it not a series of seven uneasy days, spent in restless pursuit
of pleasure, and a wearisome anxiety to find out how to make the most of them? Where was the
quiet, where the promised rest? Before I had a taste of it, it was vanished. I was at the desk
again, counting upon the fifty-one tedious weeks that must intervene before such another snatch
would come. Still the prospect of its coming threw something of an illumination upon the darker
side of my captivity. Without it, as I have said, I could scarcely have sustained my thraldom.

Independently of the rigours of attendance, I have ever been haunted with a sense (perhaps
a mere caprice) of incapacity for business. This, during my latter years, had increased to
such a degree, that it was visible in all the lines of my countenance. My health and my good
spirits flagged. I had perpetually a dread of some crisis, to which I should be found unequal.
Besides my daylight servitude, I served over again all night in my sleep, and would awake with
terrors of imaginary false entries, errors in my accounts, and the like. I was fifty years
of age, and no prospect of emancipation presented itself. I had grown to my desk, as it were;
and the wood had entered into my soul.

My fellows in the office would sometimes rally me upon the trouble legible in my countenance;
but I did not know that it had raised the suspicions of any of my employers, when, on the 5th
of last month, a day ever to be remembered by me, L----, the junior partner in the firm, calling
me on one side, directly taxed me with my bad looks, and frankly inquired the cause of them.
So taxed, I honestly made confession of my infirmity, and added that I was afraid I should
eventually be obliged to resign his service. He spoke some words of course to hearten me, and
there the matter rested. A whole week I remained labouring under the impression that I had
acted imprudently in my disclosure; that I had foolishly given a handle against myself, and
had been anticipating my own dismissal. A week passed in this manner, the most anxious one,
I verily believe, in my whole life, when on the evening of the 12th of April, just as I was
about quitting my desk to go home (it might be about eight o'clock) I received an awful summons
to attend the presence of the whole assembled firm in the formidable back parlour. I thought,
now my time is surely come, I have done for myself, I am going to be told that they have no
longer occasion for me. L----, I could see, smiled at the terror I was in, which was a little
relief to me,--when to my utter astonishment B----, the eldest partner, began a formal harangue
to me on the length of my services, my very meritorious conduct during the whole of the time
(the deuce, thought I, how did he find out that? I protest I never had the confidence to think
as much). He went on to descant on the expediency of retiring at a certain time of life (how
my heart panted!) and asking me a few questions as to the amount of my own property, of which
I have a little, ended with a proposal, to which his three partners nodded a grave assent,
that I should accept from the house, which I had served so well, a pension for life to the
amount of two-thirds of my accustomed salary--a magnificent offer! This noble benefit--gratitude
forbids me to conceal their names--I owe to the kindness of the most munificent firm in the
world--the house of Boldero, Merryweather, Bosanquet, and Lacy.

Esto perpetua!

"Years," you will say! "what is this superannuated simpleton calculating upon? He has already
told us, he is past fifty." For that is the only true Time, which a man can properly call his
own, that which he has all to himself; the rest, though in some sense he may be said to live
it, is other people's time, not his. The remnant of my poor days, long or short, is at least
multiplied for me three-fold. My ten next years, if I stretch so far, will be as long as any
preceding thirty. 'Tis a fair rule-of-three sum.

Among the strange fantasies which beset me at the commencement of my freedom, and of which
all traces are not yet gone, one was, that a vast tract of time had intervened since I quitted
the Counting House. I could not conceive of it as an affair of yesterday. The partners, and
the clerks, with whom I had for so many years, and for so many hours in each day of the year,
been closely associated--being suddenly removed from them--they seemed as dead to me. There
is a fine passage, which may serve to illustrate this fancy, in a Tragedy by Sir Robert Howard,
speaking of a friend's death:

  --'Twas but just now he went away;
  I have not since had time to shed a tear;
  And yet the distance does the same appear
  As if he had been a thousand years from me.
  Time takes no measure in Eternity.

To dissipate this awkward feeling, I have been fain to go among them once or twice since; to
visit my old desk-fellows--my co-brethren of the quill--that I had left below in the state
militant. Not all the kindness with which they received me could quite restore to me that pleasant
familiarity, which I had heretofore enjoyed among them. We cracked some of our old jokes, but
methought they went off but faintly. My old desk; the peg where I hung my hat, were appropriated
to another. I knew it must be, but I could not take it kindly. D----l take me, if I did not
feel some remorse--beast, if I had not,--at quitting my old compeers, the faithful partners
of my toils for six and thirty years, that smoothed for me with their jokes and conundrums
the ruggedness of my professional road. Had it been so rugged then after all? or was I a coward
simply? Well, it is too late to repent; and I also know, that these suggestions are a common
fallacy of the mind on such occasions. But my heart smote me. I had violently broken the bands
betwixt us. It was at least not courteous. I shall be some time before I get quite reconciled
to the separation. Farewell, old cronies, yet not for long, for again and again I will come
among ye, if I shall have your leave. Farewell Ch----, dry, sarcastic, and friendly! Do----,
mild, slow to move, and gentlemanly! Pl----, officious to do, and to volunteer, good services!--and
thou, thou dreary pile, fit mansion for a Gresham or a Whittington of old, stately House of
Merchants; with thy labyrinthine passages, and light-excluding, pent-up offices, where candles
for one half the year supplied the place of the sun's light; unhealthy contributor to my weal,
stern fosterer of my living, farewell! In thee remain, and not in the obscure collection of
some wandering bookseller, my "works!" There let them rest, as I do from my labours, piled
on thy massy shelves, more MSS. in folio than ever Aquinas left, and full as useful! My mantle
I bequeath among ye.

A fortnight has passed since the date of my first communication. At that period I was approaching
to tranquillity, but had not reached it. I boasted of a calm indeed, but it was comparative
only. Something of the first flutter was left; an unsettling sense of novelty; the dazzle to
weak eyes of unaccustomed light. I missed my old chains, forsooth, as if they had been some
necessary part of my apparel. I was a poor Carthusian, from strict cellular discipline suddenly
by some revolution returned upon the world. I am now as if I had never been other than my own
master. It is natural to me to go where I please, to do what I please. I find myself at eleven
o'clock in the day in Bond-street, and it seems to me that I have been sauntering there at
that very hour for years past. I digress into Soho, to explore a book-stall. Methinks I have
been thirty years a collector. There is nothing strange nor new in it. I find myself before
a fine picture in a morning. Was it ever otherwise? What is become of Fish-street Hill? Where
is Fenchurch-street? Stones of old Mincing-lane, which I have worn with my daily pilgrimage
for six and thirty years, to the footsteps of what toil-worn clerk are your everlasting flints
now vocal? I indent the gayer flags of Pall Mall. It is Change time, and I am strangely among
the Elgin marbles. It was no hyperbole when I ventured to compare the change in my condition
to a passing into another world. Time stands still in a manner to me. I have lost all distinction
of season. I do not know the day of the week, or of the month. Each day used to be individually
felt by me in its reference to the foreign post days; in its distance from, or propinquity
to, the next Sunday. I had my Wednesday feelings, my Saturday nights' sensations. The genius
of each day was upon me distinctly during the whole of it, affecting my appetite, spirits,
&c. The phantom of the next day, with the dreary five to follow, sate as a load upon my poor
Sabbath recreations. What charm has washed that Ethiop white? What is gone of Black Monday?
All days are the same. Sunday itself--that unfortunate failure of a holyday as it too often
proved, what with my sense of its fugitiveness, and over-care to get the greatest quantity
of pleasure out of it--is melted down into a week day. I can spare to go to church now, without
grudging the huge cantle which it used to seem to cut out of the holyday. I have Time for everything.
I can visit a sick friend. I can interrupt the man of much occupation when he is busiest. I
can insult over him with an invitation to take a day's pleasure with me to Windsor this fine
May-morning. It is Lucretian pleasure to behold the poor drudges, whom I have left behind in
the world, carking and caring; like horses in a mill, drudging on in the same eternal round--and
what is it all for? A man can never have too much Time to himself, nor too little to do. Had
I a little son, I would christen him NOTHING-TO-DO; he should do nothing. Man, I verily believe,
is out of his element as long as he is operative. I am altogether for the life contemplative.
Will no kindly earthquake come and swallow up those accursed cotton mills? Take me that lumber
of a desk there, and bowl it down

  As low as to the fiends.

I am no longer ******, clerk to the Firm of &c. I am Retired Leisure. I am to be met with in
trim gardens. I am already come to be known by my vacant face and careless gesture, perambulating
at no fixed pace, nor with any settled purpose. I walk about; not to and from. They tell me,
a certain cum dignitate air, that has been buried so long with my other good parts, has begun
to shoot forth in my person. I grow into gentility perceptibly. When I take up a newspaper,
it is to read the state of the opera. Opus operatum est. I have done all that I came into this
world to do. I have worked task work, and have the rest of the day to myself. We should prefer
saying--of the lordly, and the gentlemanly. Nothing can be more unlike than the inflated finical
rhapsodies of Shaftesbury, and the plain natural chit-chat of Temple. The man of rank is discernible
in both writers; but in the one it is only insinuated gracefully, in the other it stands out
offensively. They scent of Nimeguen, and the Hague. Scarce an authority is quoted under an
ambassador. Don Francisco de Melo, a "Portugal Envoy in England," tells him it was frequent
in his country for men, spent with age or other decays, so as they could not hope for above
a year or two of life, to ship themselves away in a Brazil fleet, and after their arrival there
to go on a great length, sometimes of twenty or thirty years, or more, by the force of that
vigour they recovered with that remove. "Whether such an effect (Temple beautifully adds) might
grow from the air, or the fruits of that climate, or by approaching nearer the sun, which is
the fountain of light and heat, when their natural heat was so far decayed: or whether the
piecing out of an old man's life were worth the pains; I cannot tell: perhaps the play is not
worth the candle."--Monsieur Pompone, "French Ambassador in his (Sir William's) time at the
Hague," certifies him, that in his life he had never heard of any man in France that arrived
at a hundred years of age; a limitation of life which the old gentleman imputes to the excellence
of their climate, giving them such a liveliness of temper and humour, as disposes them to more
pleasures of all kinds than in other countries; and moralises upon the matter very sensibly.
The "late Robert Earl of Leicester" furnishes him with a story of a Countess of Desmond, married
out of England in Edward the Fourth's time, and who lived far in King James's reign. The "same
noble person" gives him an account, how such a year, in the same reign, there went about the
country a set of morrice-dancers, composed of ten men who danced, a Maid Marian, and a tabor
and pipe; and how these twelve, one with another, made up twelve hundred years. "It was not
so much (says Temple) that so many in one small county (Herefordshire) should live to that
age, as that they should be in vigour and in humour to travel and to dance." Monsieur Zulichem,
one of his "colleagues at the Hague," informs him of a cure for the gout; which is confirmed
by another "Envoy," Monsieur Serinchamps, in that town, who had tried it.--Old Prince Maurice
of Nassau recommends to him the use of hammocks in that complaint; having been allured to sleep,
while suffering under it himself, by the "constant motion or swinging of those airy beds."
Count Egmont, and the Rhinegrave who "was killed last summer before Maestricht," impart to
him their experiences.

But the rank of the writer is never more innocently disclosed, than where he takes for granted
the compliments paid by foreigners to his fruit-trees. His orange-trees too, are as large as
any he saw when he was young in France, except those of Fontainebleau, or what he has seen
since in the Low Countries; except some very old ones of the Prince of Orange's. Of grapes
he had the honour of bringing over four sorts into England, which he enumerates, and supposes
that they are all by this time pretty common among some gardeners in his neighbourhood, as
well as several persons of quality; for he ever thought all things of this kind "the commoner
they are made the better." The garden pedantry with which he asserts that 'tis to little purpose
to plant any of the best fruits, as peaches or grapes, hardly, he doubts, beyond Northamptonshire
at the furthest northwards; and praises the "Bishop of Munster at Cosevelt," for attempting
nothing beyond cherries in that cold climate; is equally pleasant and in character. "I may
perhaps" (he thus ends his sweet Garden Essay with a passage worthy of Cowley) "be allowed
to know something of this trade, since I have so long allowed myself to be good for nothing
else, which few men will do, or enjoy their gardens, without often looking abroad to see how
other matters play, what motions in the state, and what invitations they may hope for into
other scenes. For my own part, as the country life, and this part of it more particularly,
were the inclination of my youth itself, so they are the pleasure of my age; and I can truly
say that, among many great employments that have fallen to my share, I have never asked or
sought for any of them, but have often endeavoured to escape from them, into the ease and freedom
of a private scene, where a man may go his own way and his own pace, in the common paths and
circles of life. The measure of choosing well is whether a man likes what he has chosen, which
I thank God has befallen me; and though among the follies of my life, building and planting
have not been the least, and have cost me more than I have the confidence to own; yet they
have been fully recompensed by the sweetness and satisfaction of this retreat, where, since
my resolution taken of never entering again into any public employments, I have passed five
years without ever once going to town, though I am almost in sight of it, and have a house
there always ready to receive me. Nor has this been any sort of affectation, as some have thought
it, but a mere want of desire or humour to make so small a remove; for when I am in this corner,
I can truly say with Horace, Me quoties reficit, &c.

  "Me, when the cold Digentian stream revives,
  What does my friend believe I think or ask?
  Let me yet less possess, so I may live,
  Whate'er of life remains, unto myself.
  May I have books enough; and one year's store,
  Not to depend upon each doubtful hour:
  This is enough of mighty Jove to pray,
  Who, as he pleases, gives and takes away."

The writings of Temple are, in general, after this easy copy. On one occasion, indeed, his
wit, which was mostly subordinate to nature and tenderness, has seduced him into a string of
felicitous antitheses; which, it is obvious to remark, have been a model to Addison and succeeding
essayists. "Who would not be covetous, and with reason," he says, "if health could be purchased
with gold? who not ambitious, if it were at the command of power, or restored by honour? but,
alas! a white staff will not help gouty feet to walk better than a common cane; nor a blue
riband bind up a wound so well as a fillet. The glitter of gold, or of diamonds, will but hurt
sore eyes instead of curing them; and an aching head will be no more eased by wearing a crown,
than a common night-cap." In a far better style, and more accordant with his own humour of
plainness, are the concluding sentences of his "Discourse upon Poetry." Temple took a part
in the controversy about the ancient and the modern learning; and, with that partiality so
natural and so graceful in an old man, whose state engagements had left him little leisure
to look into modern productions, while his retirement gave him occasion to look back upon the
classic studies of his youth--decided in favour of the latter. She had already drawn tears
in young Arthur; had rallied Richard with infantine petulance in the Duke of York; and in her
turn had rebuked that petulance when she was Prince of Wales. She would have done the elder
child in Morton's pathetic after-piece to the life; but as yet the "Children in the Wood" was not.

Long after this little girl was grown an aged woman, I have seen some of these small parts,
each making two or three pages at most, copied out in the rudest hand of the then prompter,
who doubtless transcribed a little more carefully and fairly for the grown-up tragedy ladies
of the establishment. But such as they were, blotted and scrawled, as for a child's use, she
kept them all; and in the zenith of her after reputation it was a delightful sight to behold
them bound up in costliest Morocco, each single--each small part making a book--with fine clasps,
gilt-splashed, &c. She had conscientiously kept them as they had been delivered to her; not
a blot had been effaced or tampered with. They were precious to her for their affecting remembrancings.
They were her principia, her rudiments; the elementary atoms; the little steps by which she
pressed forward to perfection. "What," she would say, "could Indian rubber, or a pumice stone,
have done for these darlings?"

I am in no hurry to begin my story--indeed I have little or none to tell--so I will just mention
an observation of hers connected with that interesting time.

Not long before she died I had been discoursing with her on the quantity of real present emotion
which a great tragic performer experiences during acting. I ventured to think, that though
in the first instance such players must have possessed the feelings which they so powerfully
called up in others, yet by frequent repetition those feelings must become deadened in great
measure, and the performer trust to the memory of past emotion, rather than express a present
one. She indignantly repelled the notion, that with a truly great tragedian the operation,
by which such effects were produced upon an audience, could ever degrade itself into what was
purely mechanical. With much delicacy, avoiding to instance in her self-experience, she told
me, that so long ago as when she used to play the part of the Little Son to Mrs. Porter's Isabella,
(I think it was) when that impressive actress has been bending over her in some heart-rending
colloquy, she has felt real hot tears come trickling from her, which (to use her powerful expression)
have perfectly scalded her back.

I am not quite so sure that it was Mrs. Porter; but it was some great actress of that day.
The name is indifferent; but the fact of the scalding tears I most distinctly remember.

I was always fond of the society of players, and am not sure that an impediment in my speech
(which certainly kept me out of the pulpit) even more than certain personal disqualifications,
which are often got over in that profession, did not prevent me at one time of life from adopting
it. I have had the honour (I must ever call it) once to have been admitted to the tea-table
of Miss Kelly. I have played at serious whist with Mr. Listen. I have chatted with ever good-humoured
Mrs. Charles Kemble. I have conversed as friend to friend with her accomplished husband. I
have been indulged with a classical conference with Macready; and with a sight of the Player-picture
gallery, at Mr. Matthews's, when the kind owner, to remunerate me for my love of the old actors
(whom he loves so much) went over it with me, supplying to his capital collection, what alone
the artist could not give them--voice; and their living motion. Old tones, half-faded, of Dodd
and Parsons, and Baddeley, have lived again for me at his bidding. Only Edwin he could not
restore to me. I have supped with ----; but I am growing a coxcomb.

One thing I will only mention, that in some child's part, where in her theatrical character
she was to sup off a roast fowl (O joy to Barbara!) some comic actor, who was for the night
caterer for this dainty--in the misguided humour of his part, threw over the dish such a quantity
of salt (O grief and pain of heart to Barbara!) that when he crammed a portion of it into her
mouth, she was obliged sputteringly to reject it; and what with shame of her ill-acted part,
and pain of real appetite at missing such a dainty, her little heart sobbed almost to breaking,
till a flood of tears, which the well-fed spectators were totally unable to comprehend, mercifully
relieved her.

I have heard her say, that it was a surprise, not much short of mortification to her, to see
the coolness with which the old man pocketed the difference, which had caused her such mortal
throes.

This anecdote of herself I had in the year 1800, from the mouth of the late Mrs. Crawford,[1]
then sixty-seven years of age (she died soon after); and to her struggles upon this childish
occasion I have sometimes ventured to think her indebted for that power of rending the heart
in the representation of conflicting emotions, for which in after years she was considered
as little inferior (if at all so in the part of Lady Randolph) even to Mrs. Siddons.

[Footnote 1: The maiden name of this lady was Street, which she changed, by successive marriages,
for those of Dancer, Barry, and Crawford. She was Mrs. Crawford, and a third time a widow,
when I knew her.]

THE TOMBS IN THE ABBEY

IN A LETTER TO R---- S----, ESQ.

Though in some points of doctrine, and perhaps of discipline I am diffident of lending a perfect
assent to that church which you have so worthily historified, yet may the ill time never come
to me, when with a chilled heart, or a portion of irreverent sentiment, I shall enter her beautiful
and time-hallowed Edifices. Judge then of my mortification when, after attending the choral
anthems of last Wednesday at Westminster, and being desirous of renewing my acquaintance, after
lapsed years, with the tombs and antiquities there, I found myself excluded; turned out like
a dog, or some profane person, into the common street, with feelings not very congenial to
the place, or to the solemn service which I had been listening to. It was a jar after that music.

You had your education at Westminster; and doubtless among those dim aisles and cloisters,
you must have gathered much of that devotional feeling in those young years, on which your
purest mind feeds still--and may it feed! The antiquarian spirit, strong in you, and gracefully
blending ever with the religious, may have been sown in you among those wrecks of splendid
mortality. You owe it to the place of your education; you owe it to your learned fondness for
the architecture of your ancestors; you owe it to the venerableness of your ecclesiastical
establishment, which is daily lessened and called in question through these practices--to speak
aloud your sense of them; never to desist raising your voice against them, till they be totally
done away with and abolished; till the doors of Westminster Abbey be no longer closed against
the decent, though low-in-purse, enthusiast, or blameless devotee, who must commit an injury
against his family economy, if he would be indulged with a bare admission within its walls.
You owe it to the decencies, which you wish to see maintained in its impressive services, that
our Cathedral be no longer an object of inspection to the poor at those times only, in which
they must rob from their Attendance on the worship every minute which they can bestow upon
the fabric. In vain the public prints have taken up this subject, in vain such poor nameless
writers as myself express their indignation. A word from you, Sir--a hint in your Journal--would
be sufficient to fling open the doors of the Beautiful Temple again, as we can remember them
when we were boys. At that time of life, what would the imaginative faculty (such as it is)
in both of us, have suffered, if the entrance to so much reflection had been obstructed by
the demand of so much silver!--If we had scraped it up to gain an occasional admission (as
we certainly should have done) would the sight of those old tombs have been as impressive to
us (while we had been weighing anxiously prudence against sentiment) as when the gates stood
open, as those of the adjacent Park; when we could walk in at any time, as the mood brought
us, for a shorter or longer time, as that lasted? Is the being shown over a place the same
as silently for ourselves detecting the genius of it? In no part of our beloved Abbey now can
a person find entrance (out of service time) under the sum of two shillings. The rich and the
great will smile at the anticlimax, presumed to lie in these two short words. But you can tell
them, Sir, how much quiet worth, how much capacity for enlarged feeling, how much taste and
genius, may coexist, especially in youth, with a purse incompetent to this demand.--A respected
friend of ours, during his late visit to the metropolis, presented himself for admission to
Saint Paul's. At the same time a decently clothed man, with as decent a wife, and child, were
bargaining for the same indulgence. The price was only two-pence each person. The poor but
decent man hesitated, desirous to go in; but there were three of them, and he turned away reluctantly.
Perhaps he wished to have seen the tomb of Nelson. Perhaps the Interior of the Cathedral was
his object. But in the state of his finances, even sixpence might reasonably seem too much.
Tell the Aristocracy of the country (no man can do it more impressively); instruct them of
what value these insignificant pieces of money, these minims to their sight, may be to their
humbler brethren. Shame these Sellers out of the Temple. Stifle not the suggestions of your
better nature with the pretext, that an indiscriminate admission would expose the Tombs to
violation. Remember your boy-days. Did you ever see, or hear, of a mob in the Abbey, while
it was free to all? Do the rabble come there, or trouble their heads about such speculations?
It is all that you can do to drive them into your churches; they do not voluntarily offer themselves.
They have, alas! no passion for antiquities; for tomb of king or prelate, sage or poet. If
they had, they would be no longer the rabble.

For forty years that I have known the Fabric, the only well-attested charge of violation adduced,
has been--a ridiculous dismemberment committed upon the effigy of that amiable spy, Major André.
And is it for this--the wanton mischief of some schoolboy, fired perhaps with raw notions of
Transatlantic Freedom--or the remote possibility of such a mischief occurring again, so easily
to be prevented by stationing a constable within the walls, if the vergers are incompetent
to the duty--is it upon such wretched pretences, that the people of England are made to pay
a new Peter's Pence, so long abrogated; or must content themselves with contemplating the ragged
Exterior of their Cathedral? The mischief was done about the time that you were a scholar there.
Do you know any thing about the unfortunate relic?--

AMICUS REDIVIVUS

  Where were ye, Nymphs, when the remorseless deep
  Clos'd o'er the head of your loved Lycidas?

I do not know when I have experienced a stranger sensation, than on seeing my old friend G.D.,
who had been paying me a morning visit a few Sundays back, at my cottage at Islington, upon
taking leave, instead of turning down the right hand path by which he had entered--with staff
in hand, and at noon day, deliberately march right forwards into the midst of the stream that
runs by us, and totally disappear. A spectacle like this at dusk would have been appalling
enough; but, in the broad open daylight, to witness such an unreserved motion towards self-destruction
in a valued friend, took from me all power of speculation.

How I found my feet, I know not. Consciousness was quite gone. Some spirit, not my own, whirled
me to the spot. I remember nothing but the silvery apparition of a good white head emerging;
nigh which a staff (the hand unseen that wielded it) pointed upwards, as feeling for the skies.
In a moment (if time was in that time) he was on my shoulders, and I--freighted with a load
more precious than his who bore Anchises.

And here I cannot but do justice to the officious zeal of sundry passers by, who, albeit arriving
a little too late to participate in the honours of the rescue, in philanthropic shoals came
thronging to communicate their advice as to the recovery; prescribing variously the application,
or non-application, of salt, &c., to the person of the patient. Life meantime was ebbing fast
away, amidst the stifle of conflicting judgments, when one, more sagacious than the rest, by
a bright thought, proposed sending for the Doctor. Trite as the counsel was, and impossible,
as one should think, to be missed on,--shall I confess?--in this emergency, it was to me as
if an Angel had spoken. Great previous exertions--and mine had not been inconsiderable--are
commonly followed by a debility of purpose. This was a moment of irresolution.

MONOCULUS--for so, in default of catching his true name, I choose to designate the medical
gentleman who now appeared--is a grave, middle-aged person, who, without having studied at
the college, or truckled to the pedantry of a diploma, hath employed a great portion of his
valuable time in experimental processes upon the bodies of unfortunate fellow-creatures, in
whom the vital spark, to mere vulgar thinking, would seem extinct, and lost for ever. He omitteth
no occasion of obtruding his services, from a case of common surfeit-suffocation to the ignobler
obstructions, sometimes induced by a too wilful application of the plant Cannabis outwardly.
But though he declineth not altogether these drier extinctions, his occupation tendeth for
the most part to water-practice; for the convenience of which, he hath judiciously fixed his
quarters near the grand repository of the stream mentioned, where, day and night, from his
little watch-tower, at the Middleton's-Head, he listeneth to detect the wrecks of drowned mortality--partly,
as he saith, to be upon the spot--and partly, because the liquids which he useth to prescribe
to himself and his patients, on these distressing occasions, are ordinarily more conveniently
to be found at these common hostelries, than in the shops and phials of the apothecaries. His
ear hath arrived to such finesse by practice, that it is reported, he can distinguish a plunge
at a half furlong distance; and can tell, if it be casual or deliberate. He weareth a medal,
suspended over a suit, originally of a sad brown, but which, by time, and frequency of nightly
divings, has been dinged into a true professional sable. He passeth by the name of Doctor,
and is remarkable for wanting his left eye. His remedy--after a sufficient application of warm
blankets, friction, &c., is a simple tumbler, or more, of the purest Cognac, with water, made
as hot as the convalescent can bear it. Where he findeth, as in the case of my friend, a squeamish
subject, he condescendeth to be the taster; and showeth, by his own example, the innocuous
nature of the prescription. Nothing can be more kind or encouraging than this procedure. It
addeth confidence to the patient, to see his medical adviser go hand in hand with himself in
the remedy. When the doctor swalloweth his own draught, what peevish invalid can refuse to
pledge him in the potion? In fine, MONOCULUS is a humane, sensible man, who, for a slender
pittance, scarce enough to sustain life, is content to wear it out in the endeavour to save
the lives of others--his pretensions so moderate, that with difficulty I could press a crown
upon him, for the price of restoring the existence of such an invaluable creature to society
as G.D.

It was pleasant to observe the effect of the subsiding alarm upon the nerves of the dear absentee.
It seemed to have given a shake to memory, calling up notice after notice, of all the providential
deliverances he had experienced in the course of his long and innocent life. Sitting up in
my couch--my couch which, naked and void of furniture hitherto, for the salutary repose which
it administered, shall be honoured with costly valance, at some price, and henceforth be a
state-bed at Colebrooke,--he discoursed of marvellous escapes--by carelessness of nurses--by
pails of gelid, and kettles of the boiling element, in infancy--by orchard pranks, and snapping
twigs, in schoolboy frolics--by descent of tiles at Trumpington, and of heavier tomes at Pembroke--by
studious watchings, inducing frightful vigilance--by want, and the fear of want, and all the
sore throbbings of the learned head.--Anon, he would burst out into little fragments of chaunting--of
songs long ago--ends of deliverance-hymns, not remembered before since childhood, but coming
up now, when his heart was made tender as a child's--for the tremor cordis, in the retrospect
of a recent deliverance, as in a case of impending danger, acting upon an innocent heart, will
produce a self-tenderness, which we should do ill to christen cowardice; and Shakspeare, in
the latter crisis, has made his good Sir Hugh to remember the sitting by Babylon, and to mutter
of shallow rivers.

Waters of Sir Hugh Middleton--what a spark you were like to have extinguished for ever! Your
salubrious streams to this City, for now near two centuries, would hardly have atoned for what
you were in a moment washing away. Mockery of a river--liquid artifice--wretched conduit! henceforth
rank with canals, and sluggish aqueducts. Was it for this, that, smit in boyhood with the explorations
of that Abyssinian traveller, I paced the vales of Amwell to explore your tributary springs,
to trace your salutary waters sparkling through green Hertfordshire, and cultured Enfield parks?--Ye
have no swans--no Naiads--no river God--or did the benevolent hoary aspect of my friend tempt
ye to suck him in, that ye also might have the tutelary genius of your waters?

Had he been drowned in Cam there would have been some consonancy in it; but what willows had
ye to wave and rustle over his moist sepulture?--or, having no name, besides that unmeaning
assumption of eternal novity, did ye think to get one by the noble prize, and henceforth to
be termed the STREAM DYERIAN?

  And could such spacious virtue find a grave
  Beneath the imposthumed bubble of a wave?

I protest, George, you shall not venture out again--no, not by daylight--without a sufficient
pair of spectacles--in your musing moods especially. Your absence of mind we have borne, till
your presence of body came to be called in question by it. You shall not go wandering into
Euripus with Aristotle, if we can help it. Fie, man, to turn dipper at your years' after your
many tracts in favour of sprinkling only!

I have nothing but water in my head o' nights since this frightful accident. Sometimes I am
with Clarence in his dream. Then I have before me Palinurus, just letting go the steerage.
I cry out too late to save. Next follow--a mournful procession--suicidal faces, saved against
their wills from drowning; dolefully trailing a length of reluctant gratefulness, with ropy
weeds pendant from locks of watchet hue-constrained Lazari--Pluto's half-subjects--stolen fees
from the grave-bilking Charon of his fare. At their head Arion--or is it G.D.?--in his singing
garments marcheth singly, with harp in hand, and votive garland, which Machaon (or Dr. Hawes)
snatcheth straight, intending to suspend it to the stern God of Sea. Then follow dismal streams
of Lethe, in which the half-drenched on earth are constrained to drown downright, by wharfs
where Ophelia twice acts her muddy death.

And, doubtless, there is some notice in that invisible world, when one of us approacheth (as
my friend did so lately) to their inexorable precincts. When a soul knocks once, twice, at
death's door, the sensation aroused within the palace must be considerable; and the grim Feature,
by modern science so often dispossessed of his prey, must have learned by this time to pity
Tantalus.

A pulse assuredly was felt along the line of the Elysian shades, when the near arrival of G.D.
was announced by no equivocal indications. From their seats of Asphodel arose the gentler and
the graver ghosts-poet, or historian--of Grecian or of Roman lore--to crown with unfading chaplets
the half-finished love-labours of their unwearied scholiast. Him Markland expected--him Tyrwhitt
hoped to encounter--him the sweet lyrist of Peter House, whom he had barely seen upon earth[1],
with newest airs prepared to greet ----; and, patron of the gentle Christ's boy,--who should
have been his patron through life--the mild Askew, with longing aspirations, leaned foremost
from his venerable Æsculapian chair, to welcome into that happy company the matured virtues
of the man, whose tender scions in the boy he himself upon earth had so prophetically fed and
watered.

[Footnote 1: Graium tantum vidit.]

SOME SONNETS OF SIR PHILIP SYDNEY

Sydney's Sonnets--I speak of the best of them--are among the very best of their sort. They
fall below the plain moral dignity, the sanctity, and high yet modest spirit of self-approval,
of Milton, in his compositions of a similar structure. They are in truth what Milton, censuring
the Arcadia, says of that work (to which they are a sort of after-tune or application), "vain
and amatorious" enough, yet the things in their kind (as he confesses to be true of the romance)
may be "full of worth and wit." They savour of the Courtier, it must be allowed, and not of
the Commonwealthsman. But Milton was a Courtier when he wrote the Masque at Ludlow Castle,
and still more a Courtier when he composed the Arcades. When the national struggle was to begin,
he becomingly cast these vanities behind him; and if the order of time had thrown Sir Philip
upon the crisis which preceded the Revolution, there is no reason why he should not have acted
the same part in that emergency, which has glorified the name of a later Sydney. He did not
want for plainness or boldness of spirit. His letter on the French match may testify, he could
speak his mind freely to Princes. The times did not call him to the scaffold.

The Sonnets which we oftenest call to mind of Milton were the compositions of his maturest
years. Those of Sydney, which I am about to produce, were written in the very hey-day of his
blood. They are stuck full of amorous fancies--far-fetched conceits, befitting his occupation;
for True Love thinks no labour to send out Thoughts upon the vast, and more than Indian voyages,
to bring home rich pearls, outlandish wealth, gums, jewels, spicery, to sacrifice in self-depreciating
similitudes, as shadows of true amiabilities in the Beloved. We must be Lovers--or at least
the cooling touch of time, the circum præcordia frigus, must not have so damped our faculties,
as to take away our recollection that we were once so--before we can duly appreciate the glorious
vanities, and graceful hyperboles, of the passion. The images which lie before our feet (though
by some accounted the only natural) are least natural for the high Sydnean love to express
its fancies by. They may serve for the loves of Tibullus, or the dear Author of the Schoolmistress;
for passions that creep and whine in Elegies and Pastoral Ballads. I am sure Milton never loved
at this rate. I am afraid some of his addresses (ad Leonoram I mean) have rather erred on the
farther side; and that the poet came not much short of a religious indecorum, when he could
thus apostrophise a singing-girl:--

  Angelus unicuique suus (sic credite gentes)
    Obtigit ætheriis ales ab ordinibus.
  Quid mirum, Leonora, tibi si gloria major,
    Nam tua præsentem vox sonat ipsa Deum?
  Aut Deus, aut vacui certè mens tertia coeli,
    Per tua secretò guttura serpit agens;
  Serpit agens, facilisque docet mortalia corda
    Sensim immortali assuescere posse sono.
  QUOD SI CUNCTA QUIDEM DEUS EST, PER CUNCTAQUE FUSUS,
    IN TE UNÂ LOQUITUR, CÆTERA MUTUS HABET.

This is loving in a strange fashion; and it requires some candour of construction (besides
the slight darkening of a dead language) to cast a veil over the ugly appearance of something
very like blasphemy in the last two verses. I think the Lover would have been staggered, if
he had gone about to express the same thought in English. I am sure, Sydney has no nights like
this. His extravaganzas do not strike at the sky, though he takes leave to adopt the pale Dian
into a fellowship with his mortal passions.

The last line of this poem is a little obscured by transposition. He means, Do they call ungratefulness
there a virtue?

  III

  The curious wits, seeing dull pensiveness
  Bewray itself in my long-settled eyes,
  Whence those same fumes of melancholy rise,
  With idle pains, and missing aim, do guess.
  Some, that know how my spring I did address,
  Deem that my Muse some fruit of knowledge plies;
  Others, because the Prince my service tries,
  Think, that I think state errors to redress;
  But harder judges judge, ambition's rage,
  Scourge of itself, still climbing slippery place,
  Holds my young brain captiv'd in golden cage.
  O fools, or over-wise! alas, the race
  Of all my thoughts hath neither stop nor start,
  But only STELLA'S eyes, and STELLA'S heart.

  VII

  No more, my dear, no more these counsels try;
  O give my passions leave to run their race;
  Let Fortune lay on me her worst disgrace;
  Let folk o'er-charged with brain against me cry;
  Let clouds bedim my face, break in mine eye;
  Let me no steps, but of lost labour, trace;
  Let all the earth with scorn recount my case--
  But do not will me from my love to fly.
  I do not envy Aristotle's wit,
  Nor do aspire to Cæsar's bleeding fame;
  Nor aught do care, though some above me sit;
  Nor hope, nor wish, another course to frame.
  But that which once may win thy cruel heart:
  Thou art my wit, and thou my virtue art.

  VIII

  Love still a boy, and oft a wanton, is,
  School'd only by his mother's tender eye;
  What wonder then, if he his lesson miss,
  When for so soft a rod dear play he try?
  And yet my STAR, because a sugar'd kiss
  In sport I suck'd, while she asleep did lie,
  Doth lour, nay chide, nay threat, for only this.
  Sweet, it was saucy LOVE, not humble I.
  But no 'scuse serves; she makes her wrath appear
  In beauty's throne--see now, who dares come near
  Those scarlet judges, threat'ning bloody pain?
  O heav'nly Fool, thy most kiss-worthy face
  Anger invests with such a lovely grace,
  That anger's self I needs must kiss again.

  IX

  I never drank of Aganippe well,
  Nor ever did in shade of Tempe sit,
  And Muses scorn with vulgar brains to dwell;
  Poor lay-man I, for sacred rites unfit.
  Some do I bear of Poets' fury tell,
  But (God wot) wot not what they mean by it;
  And this I swear by blackest brook of hell,
  I am no pick-purse of another's wit.
  How falls it then, that with so smooth an ease
  My thoughts I speak, and what I speak doth flow
  In verse, and that my verse best wits doth please?
  Guess me the cause--what is it thus?--fye, no.
  Or so?--much less. How then? sure thus it is,
  My lips are sweet, inspired with STELLA'S kiss.

  XII

  Highway, since you my chief Parnassus be;
  And that my Muse, to some ears not unsweet,
  Tempers her words to trampling horses' feet,
  More soft than to a chamber melody,--
  Now blessed You bear onward blessed Me
  To Her, where I my heart safe left shall meet,
  My Muse and I must you of duty greet
  With thanks and wishes, wishing thankfully.
  Be you still fair, honour'd by public heed,
  By no encroachment wrong'd, nor time forgot;
  Nor blam'd for blood, nor shamed for sinful deed.
  And that you know, I envy you no lot
  Of highest wish, I wish you so much bliss,
  Hundreds of years you STELLA'S feet may kiss.

[Footnote 1: Press.]

Of the foregoing, the first, the second, and the last sonnet, are my favourites. But the general
beauty of them all is, that they are so perfectly characteristical. The spirit of "learning
and of chivalry,"--of which union, Spenser has entitled Sydney to have been the "president,"--shines
through them. I confess I can see nothing of the "jejune" or "frigid" in them; much less of
the "stiff" and "cumbrous"--which I have sometimes heard objected to the Arcadia. The verse
runs off swiftly and gallantly. It might have been tuned to the trumpet; or tempered (as himself
expresses it) to "trampling horses' feet."

2nd Sonnet.

  --That sweet enemy,--France--

5th Sonnet.

But they are not rich in words only, in vague and unlocalised feelings--the failing too much
of some poetry of the present day--they are full, material, and circumstantiated. Time and
place appropriates every one of them. It is not a fever of passion wasting itself upon a thin
diet of dainty words, but a transcendent passion pervading and illuminating action, pursuits,
studies, feats of arms, the opinions of contemporaries and his judgment of them. An historical
thread runs through them, which almost affixes a date to them; marks the when and where they
were written.

I have dwelt the longer upon what I conceive the merit of these poems, because I have been
hurt by the wantonness (I wish I could treat it by a gentler name) with which W.H. takes every
occasion of insulting the memory of Sir Philip Sydney. But the decisions of the Author of Table
Talk, &c., (most profound and subtle where they are, as for the most part, just) are more safely
to be relied upon, on subjects and authors he has a partiality for, than on such as he has
conceived an accidental prejudice against. Milton wrote Sonnets, and was a king-hater; and
it was congenial perhaps to sacrifice a courtier to a patriot. But I was unwilling to lose
a fine idea from my mind. The noble images, passions, sentiments, and poetical delicacies of
character, scattered all over the Arcadia (spite of some stiffness and encumberment), justify
to me the character which his contemporaries have left us of the writer. I cannot think with
the Critic, that Sir Philip Sydney was that opprobrious thing which a foolish nobleman in his
insolent hostility chose to term him. I call to mind the epitaph made on him, to guide me to
juster thoughts of him; and I repose upon the beautiful lines in the "Friend's Passion for
his Astrophel," printed with the Elegies of Spenser and others.

  You knew--who knew not Astrophel?
  (That I should live to say I knew,
  And have not in possession still!)--
  Things known permit me to renew--
    Of him you know his merit such,
    I cannot say--you hear--too much.

  Within these woods of Arcady
  He chief delight and pleasure took;
  And on the mountain Partheny.
  Upon the crystal liquid brook,
    The Muses met him every day,
    That taught him sing, to write, and say.

  When he descended down the mount,
  His personage seemed most divine:
  A thousand graces one might count
  Upon his lovely chearful eyne.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Above all others this is he,
  Which erst approved in his song,
  That love and honour might agree,
  And that pure love will do no wrong.
    Sweet saints, it is no sin or blame
    To love a man of virtuous name.

  Did never Love so sweetly breathe
  In any mortal breast before:
  Did never Muse inspire beneath
  A Poet's brain with finer store.
    He wrote of Love with high conceit,
    And beauty rear'd above her height.

Or let any one read the deeper sorrows (grief running into rage) in the Poem,--the last in
the collection accompanying the above,--which from internal testimony I believe to be Lord
Brooke's,--beginning with "Silence augmenteth grief,"--and then seriously ask himself, whether
the subject of such absorbing and confounding regrets could have been that thing which Lord
Oxford termed him.

NEWSPAPERS THIRTY-FIVE YEARS AGO

Dan Stuart once told us, that he did not remember that he ever deliberately walked into the
Exhibition at Somerset House in his life. He might occasionally have escorted a party of ladies
across the way that were going in; but he never went in of his own head. Yet the office of
the Morning Post newspaper stood then just where it does now--we are carrying you back, Reader,
some thirty years or more--with its gilt-globe-topt front facing that emporium of our artists'
grand Annual Exposure. We sometimes wish, that we had observed the same abstinence with Daniel.

A word or two of D.S. He ever appeared to us one of the finest tempered of Editors. Perry,
of the Morning Chronicle, was equally pleasant, with a dash, no slight one either, of the courtier.
S. was frank, plain, and English all over. We have worked for both these gentlemen.

It is soothing to contemplate the head of the Ganges; to trace the first little bubblings of
a mighty river;

  With holy reverence to approach the rocks,
  Whence glide the streams renowned in ancient song.

Fired with a perusal of the Abyssinian Pilgrim's exploratory ramblings after the cradle of
the infant Nilus, we well remember on one fine summer holyday (a "whole day's leave" we called
it at Christ's Hospital) sallying forth at rise of sun, not very well provisioned either for
such an undertaking, to trace the current of the New River--Middletonian stream!--to its scaturient
source, as we had read, in meadows by fair Amwell. Gallantly did we commence our solitary quest--for
it was essential to the dignity of a DISCOVERY, that no eye of schoolboy, save our own, should
beam on the detection. By flowery spots, and verdant lanes, skirting Hornsey, Hope trained
us on in many a baffling turn; endless, hopeless meanders, as it seemed; or as if the jealous
waters had dodged us, reluctant to have the humble spot of their nativity revealed; till spent,
and nigh famished, before set of the same sun, we sate down somewhere by Bowes Farm, near Tottenham,
with a tithe of our proposed labours only yet accomplished; sorely convinced in spirit, that
that Brucian enterprise was as yet too arduous for our young shoulders.

Not more refreshing to the thirsty curiosity of the traveller is the tracing of some mighty
waters up to their shallow fontlet, than it is to a pleased and candid reader to go back to
the inexperienced essays, the first callow flights in authorship, of some established name
in literature; from the Gnat which preluded to the Æneid, to the Duck which Samuel Johnson trod on.

While we were wringing our coy sprightlinesses for the Post, and writhing under the toil of
what is called "easy writing," Bob Allen, our quondam schoolfellow, was tapping his impracticable
brains in a like service for the "Oracle." Not that Robert troubled himself much about wit.
If his paragraphs had a sprightly air about them, it was sufficient. He carried this nonchalance
so far at last, that a matter of intelligence, and that no very important one, was not seldom
palmed upon his employers for a good jest; for example sake--"Walking yesterday morning casually
down Snow Hill, who should we meet but Mr. Deputy Humphreys! we rejoice to add, that the worthy
Deputy appeared to enjoy a good state of health. We do not remember ever to have seen him look
better." This gentleman, so surprisingly met upon Snow Hill, from some peculiarities in gait
or gesture, was a constant butt for mirth to the small paragraph-mongers of the day; and our
friend thought that he might have his fling at him with the rest. We met A. in Holborn shortly
after this extraordinary rencounter, which he told with tears of satisfaction in his eyes,
and chuckling at the anticipated effects of its announcement next day in the paper. We did
not quite comprehend where the wit of it lay at the time; nor was it easy to be detected, when
the thing came out, advantaged by type and letter-press. He had better have met any thing that
morning than a Common Council Man. His services were shortly after dispensed with, on the plea
that his paragraphs of late had been deficient in point. The one in question, it must be owned,
had an air, in the opening especially, proper to awaken curiosity; and the sentiment, or moral,
wears the aspect of humanity, and good neighbourly feeling. But somehow the conclusion was
not judged altogether to answer to the magnificent promise of the premises. We traced our friend's
pen afterwards in the "True Briton," the "Star," the "Traveller,"--from all which he was successively
dismissed, the Proprietors having "no further occasion for his services." Nothing was easier
than to detect him. When wit failed, or topics ran low, there constantly appeared the following--"It
is not generally known that the three Blue Balls at the Pawnbrokers' shops are the ancient
arms of Lombardy. The Lombards were the first money-brokers in Europe." Bob has done more to
set the public right on this important point of blazonry, than the whole College of Heralds.

The appointment of a regular wit has long ceased to be a part of the economy of a Morning Paper.
Editors find their own jokes, or do as well without them. Parson Este, and Topham, brought
up the set custom of "witty paragraphs," first in the "World." Boaden was a reigning paragraphist
in his day, and succeeded poor Allen in the Oracle. But, as we said, the fashion of jokes passes
away; and it would be difficult to discover in the Biographer of Mrs. Siddons, any traces of
that vivacity and fancy which charmed the whole town at the commencement of the present century.
Even the prelusive delicacies of the present writer--the curt "Astræan allusion"--would be
thought pedantic, and out of date, in these days. Stuart made that curious confession to us,
that he had "never deliberately walked into an Exhibition at Somerset House in his life."

BARRENNESS OF THE IMAGINATIVE FACULTY IN THE PRODUCTIONS OF MODERN ART

Hogarth excepted, can we produce any one painter within the last fifty years, or since the
humour of exhibiting began, that has treated a story imaginatively? By this we mean, upon whom
his subject has so acted, that it has seemed to direct him--not to be arranged by him? Any
upon whom its leading or collateral points have impressed themselves so tyrannically, that
he dared not treat it otherwise, lest he should falsify a revelation? Any that has imparted
to his compositions, not merely so much truth as is enough to convey a story with clearness,
but that individualising property, which should keep the subject so treated distinct in feature
from every other subject, however similar, and to common apprehensions almost identical; so
as that we might say, this and this part could have found an appropriate place in no other
picture in the world but this? Is there anything in modern art--we will not demand that it
should be equal--but in any way analogous to what Titian has effected, in that wonderful bringing
together of two times in the "Ariadne," in the National Gallery? Precipitous, with his reeling
Satyr rout about him, re-peopling and re-illuming suddenly the waste places, drunk with a new
fury beyond the grape, Bacchus, born in fire, fire-like flings himself at the Cretan. This
is the time present. With this telling of the story an artist, and no ordinary one, might remain
richly proud. Guido, in his harmonious version of it, saw no further. But from the depths of
the imaginative spirit Titian has recalled past time, and laid it contributory with the present
to one simultaneous effect. With the desert all ringing with the mad cymbals of his followers,
made lucid with the presence and new offers of a god,--as if unconscious of Bacchus, or but
idly casting her eyes as upon some unconcerning pageant--her soul undistracted from Theseus--Ariadne
is still pacing the solitary shore, in as much heart-silence, and in almost the same local
solitude, with which she awoke at day-break to catch the forlorn last glances of the sail that
bore away the Athenian.

Here are two points miraculously co-uniting; fierce society, with the feeling of solitude still
absolute; noon-day revelations, with the accidents of the dull grey dawn unquenched and lingering;
the present Bacchus, with the past Ariadne; two stories, with double Time; separate, and harmonising.
Had the artist made the woman one shade less indifferent to the God; still more, had she expressed
a rapture at his advent, where would have been the story of the mighty desolation of the heart
previous? merged in the insipid accident of a flattering offer met with a welcome acceptance.
The broken heart for Theseus was not lightly to be pieced up by a God.

We have before us a fine rough print, from a picture by Raphael in the Vatican. It is the Presentation
of the newborn Eve to Adam by the Almighty. A fairer mother of mankind we might imagine, and
a goodlier sire perhaps of men since born. But these are matters subordinate to the conception
of the situation, displayed in this extraordinary production. A tolerably modern artist would
have been satisfied with tempering certain raptures of connubial anticipation, with a suitable
acknowledgment to the Giver of the blessing, in the countenance of the first bridegroom; something
like the divided attention of the child (Adam was here a child man) between the given toy,
and the mother who had just blest it with the bauble. This is the obvious, the first-sight
view, the superficial. An artist of a higher grade, considering the awful presence they were
in, would have taken care to subtract something from the expression of the more human passion,
and to heighten the more spiritual one. This would be as much as an exhibition-goer, from the
opening of Somerset House to last year's show, has been encouraged to look for. It is obvious
to hint at a lower expression, yet in a picture, that for respects of drawing and colouring,
might be deemed not wholly inadmissible within these art-fostering walls, in which the raptures
should be as ninety-nine, the gratitude as one, or perhaps Zero! By neither the one passion
nor the other has Raphael expounded the situation of Adam. Singly upon his brow sits the absorbing
sense of wonder at the created miracle. The moment is seized by the intuitive artist, perhaps
not self-conscious of his art, in which neither of the conflicting emotions--a moment how abstracted--have
had time to spring up, or to battle for indecorous mastery.--We have seen a landscape of a
justly admired neoteric, in which he aimed at delineating a fiction, one of the most severely
beautiful in antiquity--the gardens of the Hesperides. To do Mr. ---- justice, he had painted
a laudable orchard, with fitting seclusion, and a veritable dragon (of which a Polypheme by
Poussin is somehow a fac-simile for the situation), looking over into the world shut out backwards,
so that none but a "still-climbing Hercules" could hope to catch a peep at the admired Ternary
of Recluses. No conventual porter could keep his keys better than this custos with the "lidless
eyes." He not only sees that none do intrude into that privacy, but, as clear as daylight,
that none but Hercules aut Diabolus by any manner of means can. So far all is well. We have
absolute solitude here or nowhere. Ab extra the damsels are snug enough. But here the artist's
courage seems to have failed him. He began to pity his pretty charge, and, to comfort the irksomeness,
has peopled their solitude with a bevy of fair attendants, maids of honour, or ladies of the
bed-chamber, according to the approved etiquette at a court of the nineteenth century; giving
to the whole scene the air of a fête champêtre, if we will but excuse the absence of the gentlemen.
This is well, and Watteauish. But what is become of the solitary mystery--the

  Daughters three,
  That sing around the golden tree?

This is not the way in which Poussin would have treated this subject.

The paintings, or rather the stupendous architectural designs, of a modern artist, have been
urged as objections to the theory of our motto. They are of a character, we confess, to stagger
it. On that side, the imagination of the artist halts, and appears defective. Let us examine
the point of the story in the "Belshazzar's Feast." We will introduce it by an apposite anecdote.

The court historians of the day record, that at the first dinner given by the late King (then
Prince Regent) at the Pavilion, the following characteristic frolic was played off. The guests
were select and admiring; the banquet profuse and admirable; the lights lustrous and oriental;
the eye was perfectly dazzled with the display of plate, among which the great gold salt-cellar,
brought from the regalia in the Tower for this especial purpose, itself a tower! stood conspicuous
for its magnitude. And now the Rev. **** the then admired court Chaplain, was proceeding with
the grace, when, at a signal given, the lights were suddenly overcast, and a huge transparency
was discovered, in which glittered in golden letters--

  "BRIGHTON-EARTHQUAKE-SWALLOW-UP-ALIVE!"

Imagine the confusion of the guests; the Georges and garters, jewels, bracelets, moulted upon
the occasion! The fans dropt, and picked up the next morning by the sly court pages! Mrs. Fitz-what's-her-name
fainting, and the Countess of **** holding the smelling bottle, till the good-humoured Prince
caused harmony to be restored by calling in fresh candles, and declaring that the whole was
nothing but a pantomime hoax, got up by the ingenious Mr. Farley, of Covent Garden, from hints
which his Royal Highness himself had furnished! Then imagine the infinite applause that followed,
the mutual rallyings, the declarations that "they were not much frightened," of the assembled
galaxy.

The point of time in the picture exactly answers to the appearance of the transparency in the
anecdote. The huddle, the flutter, the bustle, the escape, the alarm, and the mock alarm; the
prettinesses heightened by consternation; the courtier's fear which was flattery, and the lady's
which was affectation; all that we may conceive to have taken place in a mob of Brighton courtiers,
sympathising with the well-acted surprise of their sovereign; all this, and no more, is exhibited
by the well-dressed lords and ladies in the Hall of Belus. Just this sort of consternation
we have seen among a flock of disquieted wild geese at the report only of a gun having gone off!

But is this vulgar fright, this mere animal anxiety for the preservation of their persons,--such
as we have witnessed at a theatre, when a slight alarm of fire has been given--an adequate
exponent of a supernatural terror? the way in which the finger of God, writing judgments, would
have been met by the withered conscience? There is a human fear, and a divine fear. The one
is disturbed, restless, and bent upon escape. The other is bowed down, effortless, passive.
When the spirit appeared before Eliphaz in the visions of the night, and the hair of his flesh
stood up, was it in the thoughts of the Temanite to ring the bell of his chamber, or to call
up the servants? But let us see in the text what there is to justify all this huddle of vulgar
consternation. The golden and silver vessels are gorgeously enumerated, with the princes, the
king's concubines, and his wives.

This is the plain text. By no hint can it be otherwise inferred, but that the appearance was
solely confined to the fancy of Belshazzar, that his single brain was troubled. Not a word
is spoken of its being seen by any else there present, not even by the queen herself, who merely
undertakes for the interpretation of the phenomenon, as related to her, doubtless, by her husband.
The lords are simply said to be astonished; i.e. at the trouble and the change of countenance
in their sovereign. Even the prophet does not appear to have seen the scroll, which the king
saw. He recals it only, as Joseph did the Dream to the King of Egypt. "Then was the part of
the hand sent from him [the Lord], and this writing was written." He speaks of the phantasm
as past.

Then what becomes of this needless multiplication of the miracle? this message to a royal conscience,
singly expressed--for it was said, "thy kingdom is divided,"--simultaneously impressed upon
the fancies of a thousand courtiers, who were implied in it neither directly nor grammatically?
But admitting the artist's own version of the story, and that the sight was seen also by the
thousand courtiers--let it have been visible to all Babylon--as the knees of Belshazzar were
shaken, and his countenance troubled, even so would the knees of every man in Babylon, and
their countenances, as of an individual man, been troubled; bowed, bent down, so would they
have remained, stupor-fixed, with no thought of struggling with that inevitable judgment.

Not all that is optically possible to be seen, is to be shown in every picture. The eye delightedly
dwells upon the brilliant individualities in a "Marriage at Cana," by Veronese, or Titian,
to the very texture and colour of the wedding garments, the ring glittering upon the bride's
fingers, the metal and fashion of the wine pots; for at such seasons there is leisure and luxury
to be curious. But in a "day of judgment," or in a "day of lesser horrors, yet divine," as
at the impious feast of Belshazzar, the eye should see, as the actual eye of an agent or patient
in the immediate scene would see, only in masses and indistinction. Not only the female attire
and jewelry exposed to the critical eye of the fashion, as minutely as the dresses in a lady's
magazine, in the criticised picture,--but perhaps the curiosities of anatomical science, and
studied diversities of posture in the falling angels and sinners of Michael Angelo,--have no
business in their great subjects. There was no leisure of them.

By a wise falsification, the great masters of painting got at their true conclusions; by not
showing the actual appearances, that is, all that was to be seen at any given moment by an
indifferent eye, but only what the eye might be supposed to see in the doing or suffering of
some portentous action. Suppose the moment of the swallowing up of Pompeii. There they were
to be seen--houses, columns, architectural proportions, differences of public and private buildings,
men and women at their standing occupations, the diversified thousand postures, attitudes,
dresses, in some confusion truly, but physically they were visible. But what eye saw them at
that eclipsing moment, which reduces confusion to a kind of unity, and when the senses are
upturned from their proprieties, when sight and hearing are a feeling only? A thousand years
have passed, and we are at leisure to contemplate the weaver fixed standing at his shuttle,
the baker at his oven, and to turn over with antiquarian coolness the pots and pans of Pompeii.

"Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeah, and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon." Who, in reading
this magnificent Hebraism, in his conception, sees aught but the heroic son of Nun, with the
out-stretched arm, and the greater and lesser light obsequious? Doubtless there were to be
seen hill and dale, and chariots and horsemen, on open plain, or winding by secret defiles,
and all the circumstances and stratagems of war. But whose eyes would have been conscious of
this array at the interposition of the synchronic miracle? Yet in the picture of this subject
by the artist of the "Belshazzar's Feast"--no ignoble work either--the marshalling and landscape
of the war is everything, the miracle sinks into an anecdote of the day; and the eye may "dart
through rank and file traverse" for some minutes, before it shall discover, among his armed
followers, which is Joshua! Not modern art alone, but ancient, where only it is to be found
if anywhere, can be detected erring, from defect of this imaginative faculty. The world has
nothing to show of the preternatural in painting, transcending the figure of Lazarus bursting
his grave-clothes, in the great picture at Angerstein's. It seems a thing between two beings.
A ghastly horror at itself struggles with newly-apprehending gratitude at second life bestowed.
It cannot forget that it was a ghost. It has hardly felt that it is a body. It has to tell
of the world of spirits.--Was it from a feeling, that the crowd of half-impassioned by-standers,
and the still more irrelevant herd of passers-by at a distance, who have not heard or but faintly
have been told of the passing miracle, admirable as they are in design and hue--for it is a
glorified work--do not respond adequately to the action--that the single figure of the Lazarus
has been attributed to Michael Angelo, and the mighty Sebastian unfairly robbed of the fame
of the greater half of the interest? Now that there were not indifferent passers-by within
actual scope of the eyes of those present at the miracle, to whom the sound of it had but faintly,
or not at all, reached, it would be hardihood to deny; but would they see them? or can the
mind in the conception of it admit of such unconcerning objects? can it think of them at all?
or what associating league to the imagination can there be between the seers, and the seers
not, of a presential miracle?

Were an artist to paint upon demand a picture of a Dryad, we will ask whether, in the present
low state of expectation, the patron would not, or ought not to be fully satisfied with a beautiful
naked figure recumbent under wide-stretched oaks? Disseat those woods, and place the same figure
among fountains, and falls of pellucid water, and you have a--Naiad! Not so in a rough print
we have seen after Julio Romano, we think--for it is long since--there, by no process, with
mere change of scene, could the figure have reciprocated characters. Long, grotesque, fantastic,
yet with a grace of her own, beautiful in convolution and distortion, linked to her connatural
tree, co-twisting with its limbs her own, till both seemed either--these, animated branches;
those, disanimated members--yet the animal and vegetable lives sufficiently kept distinct--his
Dryad lay--an approximation of two natures, which to conceive, it must be seen; analogous to,
not the same with, the delicacies of Ovidian transformations.

To the lowest subjects, and, to a superficial comprehension, the most barren, the Great Masters
gave loftiness and fruitfulness. The large eye of genius saw in the meanness of present objects
their capabilities of treatment from their relations to some grand Past or Future. How has
Raphael--we must still linger about the Vatican--treated the humble craft of the ship-builder,
in his "Building of the Ark?" It is in that scriptural series, to which we have referred, and
which, judging from some fine rough old graphic sketches of them which we possess, seem to
be of a higher and more poetic grade than even the Cartoons. The dim of sight are the timid
and the shrinking. There is a cowardice in modern art. As the Frenchmen, of whom Coleridge's
friend made the prophetic guess at Rome, from the beard and horns of the Moses of Michael Angelo
collected no inferences beyond that of a He Goat and a Cornuto; so from this subject, of mere
mechanic promise, it would instinctively turn away, as from one incapable of investiture with
any grandeur. The dock-yards at Woolwich would object derogatory associations. The depôt at
Chatham would be the mote and the beam in its intellectual eye. But not to the nautical preparations
in the ship-yards of Civita Vecchia did Raphael look for instructions, when he imagined the
Building of the Vessel that was to be conservatory of the wrecks of the species of drowned
mankind. In the intensity of the action, he keeps ever out of sight the meanness of the operation.
There is the Patriarch, in calm forethought, and with holy prescience, giving directions. And
there are his agents--the solitary but sufficient Three--hewing, sawing, every one with the
might and earnestness of a Demiurgus; under some instinctive rather than technical guidance;
giant-muscled; every one a Hercules, or liker to those Vulcanian Three, that in sounding caverns
under Mongibello wrought in fire--Brontes, and black Steropes, and Pyracmon. So work the workmen
that should repair a world!

Artists again err in the confounding of poetic with pictorial subjects. In the latter, the
exterior accidents are nearly everything, the unseen qualities as nothing. Othello's colour--the
infirmities and corpulence of a Sir John Falstaff--do they haunt us perpetually in the reading?
or are they obtruded upon our conceptions one time for ninety-nine that we are lost in admiration
at the respective moral or intellectual attributes of the character? But in a picture Othello
is always a Blackamoor; and the other only Plump Jack. Deeply corporealised, and enchained
hopelessly in the grovelling fetters of externality, must be the mind, to which, in its better
moments, the image of the high-souled, high-intelligenced Quixote--the errant Star of Knighthood,
made more tender by eclipse--has never presented itself, divested from the unhallowed accompaniment
of a Sancho, or a rabblement at the heels of Rosinante. That man has read his book by halves;
he has laughed, mistaking his author's purport, which was--tears. The artist that pictures
Quixote (and it is in this degrading point that he is every season held up at our Exhibitions)
in the shallow hope of exciting mirth, would have joined the rabble at the heels of his starved
steed. We wish not to see that counterfeited, which we would not have wished to see in the
reality. Conscious of the heroic inside of the noble Quixote, who, on hearing that his withered
person was passing, would have stepped over his threshold to gaze upon his forlorn habiliments,
and the "strange bed-fellows which misery brings a man acquainted with?" Shade of Cervantes!
who in thy Second Part could put into the mouth of thy Quixote those high aspirations of a
super-chivalrous gallantry, where he replies to one of the shepherdesses, apprehensive that
he would spoil their pretty networks, and inviting him to be a guest with them, in accents
like these: "Truly, fairest Lady, Actæon was not more astonished when he saw Diana bathing
herself at the fountain, than I have been in beholding your beauty: I commend the manner of
your pastime, and thank you for your kind offers; and, if I may serve you, so I may be sure
you will be obeyed, you may command me: for my profession is this, To shew myself thankful,
and a doer of good to all sorts of people, especially of the rank that your person shows you
to be; and if those nets, as they take up but a little piece of ground, should take up the
whole world, I would seek out new worlds to pass through, rather than break them: and (he adds,)
that you may give credit to this my exaggeration, behold at least he that promiseth you this,
is Don Quixote de la Mancha, if haply this name hath come to your hearing." Illustrious Romancer!
were the "fine frenzies," which possessed the brain of thy own Quixote, a fit subject, as in
this Second Part, to be exposed to the jeers of Duennas and Serving Men? to be monstered, and
shown up at the heartless banquets of great men? Was that pitiable infirmity, which in thy
First Part misleads him, always from within, into half-ludicrous, but more than half-compassionable
and admirable errors, not infliction enough from heaven, that men by studied artifices must
devise and practise upon the humour, to inflame where they should soothe it? Why, Goneril would
have blushed to practise upon the abdicated king at this rate, and the she-wolf Regan not have
endured to play the pranks upon his fled wits, which thou hast made thy Quixote suffer in Duchesses'
halls, and at the hands of that unworthy nobleman.[1]

In the First Adventures, even, it needed all the art of the most consummate artist in the Book
way that the world hath yet seen, to keep up in the mind of the reader the heroic attributes
of the character without relaxing; so as absolutely that they shall suffer no alloy from the
debasing fellowship of the clown. If it ever obtrudes itself as a disharmony, are we inclined
to laugh; or not, rather, to indulge a contrary emotion?--Cervantes, stung, perchance, by the
relish with which his Reading Public had received the fooleries of the man, more to their palates
than the generosities of the master, in the sequel let his pen run riot, lost the harmony and
the balance, and sacrificed a great idea to the taste of his contemporaries. We know that in
the present day the Knight has fewer admirers than the Squire. Anticipating, what did actually
happen to him--as afterwards it did to his scarce inferior follower, the Author of "Guzman
de Alfarache"--that some less knowing hand would prevent him by a spurious Second Part: and
judging, that it would be easier for his competitor to out-bid him in the comicalities, than
in the romance, of his work, he abandoned his Knight, and has fairly set up the Squire for
his Hero. For what else has he unsealed the eyes of Sancho; and instead of that twilight state
of semi-insanity--the madness at second-hand--the contagion, caught from a stronger mind infected--that
war between native cunning, and hereditary deference, with which he has hitherto accompanied
his master--two for a pair almost--does he substitute a downright Knave, with open eyes, for
his own ends only following a confessed Madman; and offering at one time to lay, if not actually
laying, hands upon him! From the moment that Sancho loses his reverence, Don Quixote is become
a--treatable lunatic. Our artists handle him accordingly.

[Footnote 1: Yet from this Second Part, our cried-up pictures are mostly selected; the waiting-women
with beards, &c.]

REJOICINGS UPON THE NEW YEAR'S COMING OF AGE

The Old Year being dead, and the New Year coming of age, which he does, by Calendar Law, as
soon as the breath is out of the old gentleman's body, nothing would serve the young spark
but he must give a dinner upon the occasion, to which all the Days in the year were invited.
It was stiffly debated among them, whether the Fasts should be admitted. Some said, the appearance
of such lean, starved guests, with their mortified faces, would pervert the ends of the meeting.
But the objection was over-ruled by Christmas Day, who had a design upon Ash Wednesday (as
you shall hear), and a mighty desire to see how the old Domine would behave himself in his
cups. Only the Vigils were requested to come with their lanterns, to light the gentlefolks
home at night.

All the Days came to their day. It would have posed old Erra Pater to have found out any given
Day in the year, to erect a scheme upon--good Days, bad Days, were so shuffled together, to
the confounding of all sober horoscopy.

He had stuck the Twenty First of June next to the Twenty Second of December, and the former
looked like a Maypole siding a marrow-bone. Ash Wednesday got wedged in (as was concerted)
betwixt Christmas and Lord Mayor's Days. Lord! how he laid about him! Nothing but barons of
beef and turkeys would go down with him--to the great greasing and detriment of his new sackcloth
bib and tucker. And still Christmas Day was at his elbow, plying him the wassail-bowl, till
he roared, and hiccup'd, and protested there was no faith in dried ling, but commended it to
the devil for a sour, windy, acrimonious, censorious, hy-po-crit-crit-cri-tical mess, and no
dish for a gentleman. Then he dipt his fist into the middle of the great custard that stood
before his left-hand neighbour, and daubed his hungry beard all over with it, till you would
have taken him for the Last Day in December, it so hung in icicles.

At another part of the table, Shrove Tuesday was helping the Second of September to some cock
broth,--which courtesy the latter returned with the delicate thigh of a hen pheasant--so there
was no love lost for that matter. The Last of Lent was spunging upon Shrovetide's pancakes;
which April Fool perceiving, told him he did well, for pancakes were proper to a good fry-day.

In another part, a hubbub arose about the Thirtieth of January, who, it seems, being a sour
puritanic character, that thought nobody's meat good or sanctified enough for him, had smuggled
into the room a calf's head, which he had had cooked at home for that purpose, thinking to
feast thereon incontinently; but as it lay in the dish, March manyweathers, who is a very fine
lady, and subject to the megrims, screamed out there was a "human head in the platter," and
raved about Herodias' daughter to that degree, that the obnoxious viand was obliged to be removed;
nor did she recover her stomach till she had gulped down a Restorative, confected of Oak Apple,
which the merry Twenty Ninth of May always carries about with him for that purpose.

The King's health[1] being called for after this, a notable dispute arose between the Twelfth
of August (a zealous old Whig gentlewoman,) and the Twenty Third of April (a new-fangled lady
of the Tory stamp,) as to which of them should have the honour to propose it. August grew hot
upon the matter, affirming time out of mind the prescriptive right to have lain with her, till
her rival had basely supplanted her; whom she represented as little better than a kept mistress,
who went about in fine clothes, while she (the legitimate BIRTHDAY) had scarcely a rag, &c.

April fool, being made mediator, confirmed the right in the strongest form of words to the
appellant, but decided for peace' sake that the exercise of it should remain with the present
possessor. At the same time, he slily rounded the first lady in the ear, that an action might
lie against the Crown for bi-geny.

It beginning to grow a little duskish, Candlemas lustily bawled out for lights, which was opposed
by all the Days, who protested against burning daylight. Then fair water was handed round in
silver ewers, and the same lady was observed to take an unusual time in Washing herself.

May Day, with that sweetness which is peculiar to her, in a neat speech proposing the health
of the founder, crowned her goblet (and by her example the rest of the company) with garlands.
He felt proud on an occasion of meeting so many of his worthy father's late tenants, promised
to improve their farms, and at the same time to abate (if any thing was found unreasonable)
in their rents.

At the mention of this, the four Quarter Days involuntarily looked at each other, and smiled;
April Fool whistled to an old tune of "New Brooms;" and a surly old rebel at the farther end
of the table (who was discovered to be no other than the Fifth of November,) muttered out,
distinctly enough to be heard by the whole company, words to this effect, that, "when the old
one is gone, he is a fool that looks for a better." Which rudeness of his, the guests resenting,
unanimously voted his expulsion; and the male-content was thrust out neck and heels into the
cellar, as the properest place for such a boutefeu and firebrand as he had shown himself to be.

Order being restored--the young lord (who to say truth, had been a little ruffled, and put
beside his oratory) in as few, and yet as obliging words as possible, assured them of entire
welcome; and, with a graceful turn, singling out poor Twenty Ninth of February, that had sate
all this while mumchance at the side-board, begged to couple his health with that of the good
company before him--which he drank accordingly; observing, that he had not seen his honest
face any time these four years, with a number of endearing expressions besides. At the same
time, removing the solitary Day from the forlorn seat which had been assigned him, he stationed
him at his own board, somewhere between the Greek Calends and Latter Lammas.

Ash Wednesday, being now called upon for a song, with his eyes fast stuck in his head, and
as well as the Canary he had swallowed would give him leave, struck up a Carol, which Christmas
Day had taught him for the nonce; and was followed by the latter, who gave "Miserere" in fine
style, hitting off the mumping notes and lengthened drawl of Old Mortification with infinite
humour. April Fool swore they had exchanged conditions: but Good Friday was observed to look
extremely grave; and Sunday held her fan before her face, that she might not be seen to smile.

Shrove-tide, Lord Mayor's Day, and April Fool, next joined in a glee--

  Which is the properest day to drink?

in which all the Days chiming in, made a merry burden.

All this while, Valentine's Day kept courting pretty May, who sate next him, slipping amorous
billets-doux under the table, till the Dog Days (who are naturally of a warm constitution)
began to be jealous, and to bark and rage exceedingly. April Fool, who likes a bit of sport
above measure, and had some pretensions to the lady besides, as being but a cousin once removed,--clapped
and halloo'd them on; and as fast as their indignation cooled, those mad wags, the Ember Days,
were at it with their bellows, to blow it into a flame; and all was in a ferment: till old
Madam Septuagesima (who boasts herself the Mother of the Days) wisely diverted the conversation
with a tedious tale of the lovers which she could reckon when she was young; and of one Master
Rogation Day in particular, who was for ever putting the question to her; but she kept him
at a distance, as the chronicle would tell--by which I apprehend she meant the Almanack. Then
she rambled on to the Days that were gone, the good old Days, and so to the Days before the
Flood--which plainly showed her old head to be little better than crazed and doited. Two Vigils--so
watchmen are called in heaven--saw Christmas Day safe home--they had been used to the business
before. Another Vigil--a stout, sturdy patrole, called the Eve of St. Christopher--seeing Ash
Wednesday in a condition little better than he should be--e'en whipt him over his shoulders,
pick-a-back fashion, and Old Mortification went floating home, singing--

  On the bat's back do I fly,

and a number of old snatches besides, between drunk and sober, but very few Aves or Penitentiaries
(you may believe me) were among them.

[Footnote 1: The late King.]

THE WEDDING

I do not know when I have been better pleased than at being invited last week to be present
at the wedding of a friend's daughter. I like to make one at these ceremonies, which to us
old people give back our youth in a manner, and restore our gayest season, in the remembrance
of our own success, or the regrets, scarcely less tender, of our own youthful disappointments,
in this point of a settlement. On these occasions I am sure to be in good-humour for a week
or two after, and enjoy a reflected honey-moon. Being without a family, I am flattered with
these temporary adoptions into a friend's family; I feel a sort of cousinhood, or uncleship,
for the season; I am inducted into degrees of affinity; and, in the participated socialities
of the little community, I lay down for a brief while my solitary bachelorship. I carry this
humour so far, that I take it unkindly to be left out, even when a funeral is going on in the
house of a dear friend. But to my subject.--

The union itself had been long settled, but its celebration had been hitherto deferred, to
an almost unreasonable state of suspense in the lovers, by some invincible prejudices which
the bride's father had unhappily contracted upon the subject of the too early marriages of
females. He has been lecturing any time these five years--for to that length the courtship
has been protracted--upon the propriety of putting off the solemnity, till the lady should
have completed her five and twentieth year. We all began to be afraid that a suit, which as
yet had abated of none of its ardours, might at last be lingered on, till passion had time
to cool, and love go out in the experiment. But a little wheedling on the part of his wife,
who was by no means a party to these overstrained notions, joined to some serious expostulations
on that of his friends, who, from the growing infirmities of the old gentleman, could not promise
ourselves many years' enjoyment of his company, and were anxious to bring matters to a conclusion
during his life-time, at length prevailed; and on Monday last the daughter of my old friend,
Admiral ---- having attained the womanly age of nineteen, was conducted to the church by her
pleasant cousin J----, who told some few years older.

Before the youthful part of my female readers express their indignation at the abominable loss
of time occasioned to the lovers by the preposterous notions of my old friend, they will do
well to consider the reluctance which a fond parent naturally feels at parting with his child.
To this unwillingness, I believe, in most cases may be traced the difference of opinion on
this point between child and parent, whatever pretences of interest or prudence may be held
out to cover it. The hard-heartedness of fathers is a fine theme for romance writers, a sure
and moving topic; but is there not something untender, to say no more of it, in the hurry which
a beloved child is sometimes in to tear herself from the parental stock, and commit herself
to strange graftings? The case is heightened where the lady, as in the present instance, happens
to be an only child. I do not understand these matters experimentally, but I can make a shrewd
guess at the wounded pride of a parent upon these occasions. It is no new observation, I believe,
that a lover in most cases has no rival so much to be feared as the father. Certainly there
is a jealousy in unparallel subjects, which is little less heart-rending than the passion which
we more strictly christen by that name. Mothers' scruples are more easily got over; for this
reason, I suppose, that the protection transferred to a husband is less a derogation and a
loss to their authority than to the paternal. Mothers, besides, have a trembling foresight,
which paints the inconveniences (impossible to be conceived in the same degree by the other
parent) of a life of forlorn celibacy, which the refusal of a tolerable match may entail upon
their child. Mothers' instinct is a surer guide here, than the cold reasonings of a father
on such a topic. To this instinct may be imputed, and by it alone may be excused, the unbeseeming
artifices, by which some wives push on the matrimonial projects of their daughters, which the
husband, however approving, shall entertain with comparative indifference. A little shamelessness
on this head is pardonable. With this explanation, forwardness becomes a grace, and maternal
importunity receives the name of a virtue.--But the parson stays, while I preposterously assume
his office; I am preaching, while the bride is on the threshold.

Nor let any of my female readers suppose that the sage reflections which have just escaped
me have the obliquest tendency of application to the young lady, who, it will be seen, is about
to venture upon a change in her condition, at a mature and competent age, and not without the
fullest approbation of all parties. I only deprecate very hasty marriages.

It had been fixed that the ceremony should be gone through at an early hour, to give time for
a little déjeuné afterwards, to which a select party of friends had been invited. We were in
church a little before the clock struck eight.

Nothing could be more judicious or graceful than the dress of the bride-maids--the three charming
Miss Foresters--on this morning. To give the bride an opportunity of shining singly, they had
come habited all in green. I am ill at describing female apparel; but, while she stood at the
altar in vestments white and candid as her thoughts, a sacrificial whiteness, they assisted
in robes, such as might become Diana's nymphs--Foresters indeed--as such who had not yet come
to the resolution of putting off cold virginity. These young maids, not being so blest as to
have a mother living, I am told, keep single for their father's sake, and live altogether so
happy with their remaining parent, that the hearts of their lovers are ever broken with the
prospect (so inauspicious to their hopes) of such uninterrupted and provoking home-comfort.
Gallant girls! each a victim worthy of Iphigenia!

I do not know what business I have to be present in solemn places. I cannot divest me of an
unseasonable disposition to levity upon the most awful occasions. I was never cut out for a
public functionary. Ceremony and I have long shaken hands; but I could not resist the importunities
of the young lady's father, whose gout unhappily confined him at home, to act as parent on
this occasion, and give away the bride. Something ludicrous occurred to me at this most serious
of all moments--a sense of my unfitness to have the disposal, even in imagination, of the sweet
young creature beside me. I fear I was betrayed to some lightness, for the awful eye of the
parson--and the rector's eye of Saint Mildred's in the Poultry is no trifle of a rebuke--was
upon me in an instant, souring my incipient jest to the tristful severities of a funeral.

This was the only misbehaviour which I can plead to upon this solemn occasion, unless what
was objected to me after the ceremony by one of the handsome Miss T----s, be accounted a solecism.
She was pleased to say that she had never seen a gentleman before me give away a bride in black.
Now black has been my ordinary apparel so long--indeed I take it to be the proper costume of
an author--the stage sanctions it--that to have appeared in some lighter colour would have
raised more mirth at my expense, than the anomaly had created censure. But I could perceive
that the bride's mother, and some elderly ladies present (God bless them!) would have been
well content, if I had come in any other colour than that. But I got over the omen by a lucky
apologue, which I remembered out of Pilpay, or some Indian author, of all the birds being invited
to the linnets' wedding, at which, when all the rest came in their gayest feathers, the raven
alone apologised for his cloak because "he had no other." This tolerably reconciled the elders.
But with the young people all was merriment, and shakings of hands, and congratulations, and
kissing away the bride's tears, and kissings from her in return, till a young lady, who assumed
some experience in these matters, having worn the nuptial bands some four or five weeks longer
than her friend, rescued her, archly observing, with half an eye upon the bridegroom, that
at this rate she would have "none left."

My friend the admiral was in fine wig and buckle on this occasion--a striking contrast to his
usual neglect of personal appearance. He did not once shove up his borrowed locks (his custom
ever at his morning studies) to betray the few grey stragglers of his own beneath them. He
wore an aspect of thoughtful satisfaction. I trembled for the hour, which at length approached,
when after a protracted breakfast of three hours--if stores of cold fowls, tongues, hams, botargoes,
dried fruits, wines, cordials, &c., can deserve so meagre an appellation--the coach was announced,
which was come to carry off the bride and bridegroom for a season, as custom has sensibly ordained,
into the country; upon which design, wishing them a felicitous journey, let us return to the
assembled guests.

  As when a well-graced actor leaves the stage,
  The eyes of men
  Are idly bent on him that enters next,

so idly did we bend our eyes upon one another, when the chief performers in the morning's pageant
had vanished. None told his tale. None sipt her glass. The poor Admiral made an effort--it
was not much. I had anticipated so far. Even the infinity of full satisfaction, that had betrayed
itself through the prim looks and quiet deportment of his lady, began to wane into something
of misgiving. No one knew whether to take their leaves or stay. We seemed assembled upon a
silly occasion. In this crisis, betwixt tarrying and departure, I must do justice to a foolish
talent of mine, which had otherwise like to have brought me into disgrace in the fore-part
of the day; I mean a power, in any emergency, of thinking and giving vent to all manner of
strange nonsense. In this awkward dilemma I found it sovereign. I rattled off some of my most
excellent absurdities. All were willing to be relieved, at any expense of reason, from the
pressure of the intolerable vacuum which had succeeded to the morning bustle. By this means
I was fortunate in keeping together the better part of the company to a late hour: and a rubber
of whist (the Admiral's favourite game) with some rare strokes of chance as well as skill,
which came opportunely on his side--lengthened out till midnight--dismissed the old gentleman
at last to his bed with comparatively easy spirits.

I have been at my old friend's various times since. I do not know a visiting place where every
guest is so perfectly at his ease; nowhere, where harmony is so strangely the result of confusion.
Every body is at cross purposes, yet the effect is so much better than uniformity. Contradictory
orders; servants pulling one way; master and mistress driving some other, yet both diverse;
visitors huddled up in corners; chairs unsymmetrised; candles disposed by chance; meals at
odd hours, tea and supper at once, or the latter preceding the former; the host and the guest
conferring, yet each upon a different topic, each understanding himself, neither trying to
understand or hear the other; draughts and politics, chess and political economy, cards and
conversation on nautical matters, going on at once, without the hope, or indeed the wish, of
distinguishing them, make it altogether the most perfect concordia discors you shall meet with.
Yet somehow the old house is not quite what it should be. The Admiral still enjoys his pipe,
but he has no Miss Emily to fill it for him. The instrument stands where it stood, but she
is gone, whose delicate touch could sometimes for a short minute appease the warring elements.
He has learnt, as Marvel expresses it, to "make his destiny his choice." He bears bravely up,
but he does not come out with his flashes of wild wit so thick as formerly. His sea songs seldomer
escape him. His wife, too, looks as if she wanted some younger body to scold and set to rights.
We all miss a junior presence. It is wonderful how one young maiden freshens up, and keeps
green, the paternal roof. Old and young seem to have an interest in her, so long as she is
not absolutely disposed of. The youthfulness of the house is flown. Emily is married.

THE CHILD ANGEL

A DREAM

I chanced upon the prettiest, oddest, fantastical thing of a dream the other night, that you
shall hear of. I had been reading the "Loves of the Angels," and went to bed with my head full
of speculations, suggested by that extraordinary legend. It had given birth to innumerable
conjectures; and, I remember, the last waking thought, which I gave expression to on my pillow,
was a sort of wonder, "what could come of it."

I was suddenly transported, how or whither I could scarcely make out--but to some celestial
region. It was not the real heavens neither--not the downright Bible heaven--but a kind of
fairyland heaven, about which a poor human fancy may have leave to sport and air itself, I
will hope, without presumption.

Methought--what wild things dreams are!--I was present--at what would you imagine?--at an angel's
gossiping.

Whence it came, or how it came, or who bid it come, or whether it came purely of its own head,
neither you nor I know--but there lay, sure enough, wrapped in its little cloudy swaddling
bands--a Child Angel.

Sun-threads--filmy beams--ran through the celestial napery of what seemed its princely cradle.
All the winged orders hovered round, watching when the new-born should open its yet closed
eyes; which, when it did, first one, and then the other--with a solicitude and apprehension,
yet not such as, stained with fear, dims the expanding eye-lids of mortal infants, but as if
to explore its path in those its unhereditary palaces--what an inextinguishable titter that
time spared not celestial visages! Nor wanted there to my seeming--O the inexplicable simpleness
of dreams!--bowls of that cheering nectar,

  --which mortals caudle call below--

Nor were wanting faces of female ministrants,--stricken in years, as it might seem,--so dexterous
were those heavenly attendants to counterfeit kindly similitudes of earth, to greet, with terrestrial
child-rites the young present, which earth had made to heaven.

Then were celestial harpings heard, not in full symphony as those by which the spheres are
tutored; but, as loudest instruments on earth speak oftentimes, muffled; so to accommodate
their sound the better to the weak ears of the imperfect-born. And, with the noise of those
subdued soundings, the Angelet sprang forth, fluttering its rudiments of pinions--but forthwith
flagged and was recovered into the arms of those full-winged angels. And a wonder it was to
see how, as years went round in heaven--a year in dreams is as a day--continually its white
shoulders put forth buds of wings, but, wanting the perfect angelic nutriment, anon was shorn
of its aspiring, and fell fluttering--still caught by angel hands--for ever to put forth shoots,
and to fall fluttering, because its birth was not of the unmixed vigour of heaven.

And a name was given to the Babe Angel, and it was to be called Ge-Urania, because its production
was of earth and heaven.

And it could not taste of death, by reason of its adoption into immortal palaces: but it was
to know weakness, and reliance, and the shadow of human imbecility; and it went with a lame
gait; but in its goings it exceeded all mortal children in grace and swiftness. Then pity first
sprang up in angelic bosoms; and yearnings (like the human) touched them at the sight of the
immortal lame one.

And with pain did then first those Intuitive Essences, with pain and strife to their natures
(not grief), put back their bright intelligences, and reduce their ethereal minds, schooling
them to degrees and slower processes, so to adapt their lessons to the gradual illumination
(as must needs be) of the half-earth-born; and what intuitive notices they could not repel
(by reason that their nature is, to know all things at once), the half-heavenly novice, by
the better part of its nature, aspired to receive into its understanding; so that Humility
and Aspiration went on even-paced in the instruction of the glorious Amphibium.

But, by reason that Mature Humanity is too gross to breathe the air of that super-subtile region,
its portion was, and is, to be a child for ever.

And because the human part of it might not press into the heart and inwards of the palace of
its adoption, those full-natured angels tended it by turns in the purlieus of the palace, where
were shady groves and rivulets, like this green earth from which it came: so Love, with Voluntary
Humility, waited upon the entertainment of the new-adopted.

And myriads of years rolled round (in dreams Time is nothing), and still it kept, and is to
keep, perpetual childhood, and is the Tutelar Genius of Childhood upon earth, and still goes
lame and lovely.

By the banks of the river Pison is seen, lone-sitting by the grave of the terrestrial Adah,
whom the angel Nadir loved, a Child; but not the same which I saw in heaven. A mournful hue
overcasts its lineaments; nevertheless, a correspondency is between the child by the grave,
and that celestial orphan, whom I saw above; and the dimness of the grief upon the heavenly,
is as a shadow or emblem of that which stains the beauty of the terrestrial. And this correspondency
is not to be understood but by dreams.

And in the archives of heaven I had grace to read, how that once the angel Nadir, being exiled
from his place for mortal passion, upspringing on the wings of parental love (such power had
parental love for a moment to suspend the else-irrevocable law) appeared for a brief instant
in his station; and, depositing a wondrous Birth, straightway disappeared, and the palaces
knew him no more. And this charge was the self-same Babe, who goeth lame and lovely--but Adah
sleepeth by the river Pison.

A DEATH-BED

IN A LETTER TO R.H. ESQ. There they were, and seemed to have been sitting all the week. I could
only reach out a hand to Mrs. R. Speaking was impossible in that mute chamber. By this time
it must be all over with him. Old as I am getting, in his eyes I was still the child he knew
me. To the last he called me Jemmy. I have none to call me Jemmy now. He was the last link
that bound me to B----. You are but of yesterday. In him I seem to have lost the old plainness
of manners and singleness of heart. Lettered he was not; his reading scarcely exceeded the
Obituary of the old Gentleman's Magazine, to which he has never failed of having recourse for
these last fifty years. Yet there was the pride of literature about him from that slender perusal;
and moreover from his office of archive-keeper to your ancient city, in which he must needs
pick up some equivocal Latin; which, among his less literary friends, assumed the air of a
very pleasant pedantry. Can I forget the erudite look with which, having tried to puzzle out
the text of a Black lettered Chaucer in your Corporation Library, to which he was a sort of
Librarian, he gave it up with this consolatory reflection--"Jemmy," said he, "I do not know
what you find in these very old books, but I observe, there is a deal of very indifferent spelling
in them." His jokes (for he had some) are ended; but they were old Perennials, staple, and
always as good as new. He had one Song, that spake of the "flat bottoms of our foes coming
over in darkness," and alluded to a threatened Invasion, many years since blown over; this
he reserved to be sung on Christmas Night, which we always passed with him, and he sung it
with the freshness of an impending event.

What is the Brussels' Gazette now? I cry, while I endite these trifles. His poor girls who
are, I believe, compact of solid goodness, will have to receive their afflicted mother at an
unsuccessful home in a petty village in ----shire, where for years they have been struggling
to raise a Girls' School with no effect. Poor deaf Robert (and the less hopeful for being so)
is thrown upon a deaf world, without the comfort to his father on his death-bed of knowing
him provided for. They are left almost provisionless. Some life assurance there is; but, I
fear, not exceeding ----. Their hopes must be from your Corporation, which their father has
served for fifty years. Who or what are your Leading Members now, I know not. Is there any,
to whom without impertinence, you can represent the true circumstances of the family? You cannot
say good enough of poor R., and his poor wife. Oblige me and the dead, if you can.

OLD CHINA

I have an almost feminine partiality for old china. When I go to see any great house, I inquire
for the china-closet, and next for the picture gallery. I cannot defend the order of preference,
but by saying, that we have all some taste or other, of too ancient a date to admit of our
remembering distinctly that it was an acquired one. I can call to mind the first play, and
the first exhibition, that I was taken to; but I am not conscious of a time when china jars
and saucers were introduced into my imagination.

I had no repugnance then--why should I now have?--to those little, lawless, azure-tinctured
grotesques, that under the notion of men and women, float about, uncircumscribed by any element,
in that world before perspective--a china tea-cup.

I like to see my old friends--whom distance cannot diminish--figuring up in the air (so they
appear to our optics), yet on terra firma still--for so we must in courtesy interpret that
speck of deeper blue, which the decorous artist, to prevent absurdity, has made to spring up
beneath their sandals.

I love the men with women's faces, and the women, if possible, with still more womanish expressions.

Here is a young and courtly Mandarin, handing tea to a lady from a salver--two miles off. See
how distance seems to set off respect! And here the same lady, or another--for likeness is
identity on tea-cups--is stepping into a little fairy boat, moored on the hither side of this
calm garden river, with a dainty mincing foot, which in a right angle of incidence (as angles
go in our world) must infallibly land her in the midst of a flowery mead--a furlong off on
the other side of the same strange stream!

Farther on--if far or near can be predicated of their world--see horses, trees, pagodas, dancing
the hays.

Here--a cow and rabbit couchant, and co-extensive--so objects show, seen through the lucid
atmosphere of fine Cathay.

I was pointing out to my cousin last evening, over our Hyson (which we are old fashioned enough
to drink unmixed still of an afternoon) some of these speciosa miracula upon a set of extraordinary
old blue china (a recent purchase) which we were now for the first time using; and could not
help remarking, how favourable circumstances had been to us of late years, that we could afford
to please the eye sometimes with trifles of this sort--when a passing sentiment seemed to over-shade
the brows of my companion. I am quick at detecting these summer clouds in Bridget. A purchase
is but a purchase, now that you have money enough and to spare. Formerly it used to be a triumph.
When we coveted a cheap luxury (and, O! how much ado I had to get you to consent in those times!)
we were used to have a debate two or three days before, and to weigh the for and against, and
think what we might spare it out of, and what saving we could hit upon, that should be an equivalent.
A thing was worth buying then, when we felt the money that we paid for it. Yet do you?

"Then, do you remember our pleasant walks to Enfield, and Potter's Bar, and Waltham, when we
had a holyday--holydays, and all other fun, are gone, now we are rich--and the little hand-basket,
in which I used to deposit our day's fare of savory cold lamb and salad--and how you would
pry about at noon-tide for some decent house, where we might go in, and produce our store--only
paying for the ale that you must call for--and speculate upon the looks of the landlady, and
whether she was likely to allow us a table-cloth--and wish for such another honest hostess,
as Izaak Walton has described many a one on the pleasant banks of the Lea, when he went a fishing--and
sometimes they would prove obliging enough, and sometimes they would look grudgingly upon us--but
we had cheerful looks still for one another, and would eat our plain food savorily, scarcely
grudging Piscator his Trout Hall? Now, when we go out a day's pleasuring, which is seldom moreover,
we ride part of the way--and go into a fine inn, and order the best of dinners, never debating
the expense--which, after all, never has half the relish of those chance country snaps, when
we were at the mercy of uncertain usage, and a precarious welcome.

"You are too proud to see a play anywhere now but in the pit. Do you remember where it was
we used to sit, when we saw the battle of Hexham, and the surrender of Calais, and Bannister
and Mrs. Bland in the Children in the Wood--when we squeezed out our shillings a-piece to sit
three or four times in a season in the one-shilling gallery--where you felt all the time that
you ought not to have brought me--and more strongly I felt obligation to you for having brought
me--and the pleasure was the better for a little shame--and when the curtain drew up, what
cared we for our place in the house, or what mattered it where we were sitting, when our thoughts
were with Rosalind in Arden, or with Viola at the Court of Illyria? You used to say, that the
gallery was the best place of all for enjoying a play socially--that the relish of such exhibitions
must be in proportion to the infrequency of going--that the company we met there, not being
in general readers of plays, were obliged to attend the more, and did attend, to what was going
on, on the stage--because a word lost would have been a chasm, which it was impossible for
them to fill up. With such reflections we consoled our pride then--and I appeal to you, whether,
as a woman, I met generally with less attention and accommodation, than I have done since in
more expensive situations in the house? The getting in indeed, and the crowding up those inconvenient
staircases, was bad enough,--but there was still a law of civility to women recognised to quite
as great an extent as we ever found in the other passages--and how a little difficulty overcome
heightened the snug seat, and the play, afterwards! Now we can only pay our money, and walk
in. You cannot see, you say, in the galleries now. I am sure we saw, and heard too, well enough
then--but sight, and all, I think, is gone with our poverty.

"There was pleasure in eating strawberries, before they became quite common--in the first dish
of peas, while they were yet dear--to have them for a nice supper, a treat. What treat can
we have now? If we were to treat ourselves now--that is, to have dainties a little above our
means, it would be selfish and wicked. It is the very little more that we allow ourselves beyond
what the actual poor can get at, that makes what I call a treat--when two people living together,
as we have done, now and then indulge themselves in a cheap luxury, which both like; while
each apologises, and is willing to take both halves of the blame to his single share. I see
no harm in people making much of themselves in that sense of the word. It may give them a hint
how to make much of others. But now--what I mean by the word--we never do make much of ourselves.
None but the poor can do it. I do not mean the veriest poor of all, but persons as we were,
just above poverty.

"I know what you were going to say, that it is mighty pleasant at the end of the year to make
all meet--and much ado we used to have every Thirty-first Night of December to account for
our exceedings--many a long face did you make over your puzzled accounts, and in contriving
to make it out how we had spent so much--or that we had not spent so much--or that it was impossible
we should spend so much next year--and still we found our slender capital decreasing--but then,
betwixt ways, and projects, and compromises of one sort or another, and talk of curtailing
this charge, and doing without that for the future--and the hope that youth brings, and laughing
spirits (in which you were never poor till now,) we pocketed up our loss, and in conclusion,
with 'lusty brimmers' (as you used to quote it out of hearty cheerful Mr. Cotton, as you called
him), we used to welcome in the 'coming guest.' Now we have no reckoning at all at the end
of the old year--no flattering promises about the new year doing better for us."

Bridget is so sparing of her speech on most occasions, that when she gets into a rhetorical
vein, I am careful how I interrupt it. I could not help, however, smiling at the phantom of
wealth which her dear imagination had conjured up out of a clear income of poor--hundred pounds
a year. "It is true we were happier when we were poorer, but we were also younger, my cousin.
I am afraid we must put up with the excess, for if we were to shake the superflux into the
sea, we should not much mend ourselves. That we had much to struggle with, as we grew up together,
we have reason to be most thankful. It strengthened, and knit our compact closer. We could
never have been what we have been to each other, if we had always had the sufficiency which
you now complain of. The resisting power--those natural dilations of the youthful spirit, which
circumstances cannot straiten--with us are long since passed away. Competence to age is supplementary
youth; a sorry supplement indeed, but I fear the best that is to be had. We must ride, where
we formerly walked: live better, and lie softer--and shall be wise to do so--than we had means
to do in those good old days you speak of. Yet could those days return--could you and I once
more walk our thirty miles a-day--could Bannister and Mrs. Bland again be young, and you and
I be young to see them--could the good old one shilling gallery days return--they are dreams,
my cousin, now--but could you and I at this moment, instead of this quiet argument, by our
well-carpeted fireside, sitting on this luxurious sofa--be once more struggling up those inconvenient
stair-cases, pushed about, and squeezed, and elbowed by the poorest rabble of poor gallery
scramblers--could I once more hear those anxious shrieks of yours--and the delicious Thank
God, we are safe, which always followed when the topmost stair, conquered, let in the first
light of the whole cheerful theatre down beneath us--I know not the fathom line that ever touched
a descent so deep as I would be willing to bury more wealth in than Croesus had, or the great
Jew R---- is supposed to have, to purchase it. And now do just look at that merry little Chinese
waiter holding an umbrella, big enough for a bed-tester, over the head of that pretty insipid
half-Madona-ish chit of a lady in that very blue summer-house."

POPULAR FALLACIES

I.--THAT A BULLY IS ALWAYS A COWARD

This axiom contains a principle of compensation, which disposes us to admit the truth of it.
But there is no safe trusting to dictionaries and definitions. We should more willingly fall
in with this popular language, if we did not find brutality sometimes awkwardly coupled with
valour in the same vocabulary. The comic writers, with their poetical justice, have contributed
not a little to mislead us upon this point. To see a hectoring fellow exposed and beaten upon
the stage, has something in it wonderfully diverting. Some people's share of animal spirits
is notoriously low and defective. It has not strength to raise a vapour, or furnish out the
wind of a tolerable bluster. These love to be told that huffing is no part of valour. The truest
courage with them is that which is the least noisy and obtrusive. But confront one of these
silent heroes with the swaggerer of real life, and his confidence in the theory quickly vanishes.
Pretensions do not uniformly bespeak non-performance. A modest inoffensive deportment does
not necessarily imply valour; neither does the absence of it justify us in denying that quality.
Hickman wanted modesty--we do not mean him of Clarissa--but who ever doubted his courage? Even
the poets--upon whom this equitable distribution of qualities should be most binding--have
thought it agreeable to nature to depart from the rule upon occasion. Harapha, in the "Agonistes,"
is indeed a bully upon the received notions. Milton has made him at once a blusterer, a giant,
and a dastard. But Almanzor, in Dryden, talks of driving armies singly before him--and does
it. Tom Brown had a shrewder insight into this kind of character than either of his predecessors.
This was true distributive justice.

II.--THAT ILL-GOTTEN GAIN NEVER PROSPERS

The weakest part of mankind have this saying commonest in their mouth. It is the trite consolation
administered to the easy dupe, when he has been tricked out of his money or estate, that the
acquisition of it will do the owner no good. But the rogues of this world--the prudenter part
of them, at least--know better; and, if the observation had been as true as it is old, would
not have failed by this time to have discovered it. They have pretty sharp distinctions of
the fluctuating and the permanent. "Lightly come, lightly go," is a proverb, which they can
very well afford to leave, when they leave little else, to the losers. They do not always find
manors, got by rapine or chicanery, insensibly to melt away, as the poets will have it; or
that all gold glides, like thawing snow, from the thief's hand that grasps it. Church land,
alienated to lay uses, was formerly denounced to have this slippery quality. But some portions
of it somehow always stuck so fast, that the denunciators have been vain to postpone the prophecy
of refundment to a late posterity.

III.--THAT A MAN MUST NOT LAUGH AT HIS OWN JEST

The severest exaction surely ever invented upon the self-denial of poor human nature! This
is to expect a gentleman to give a treat without partaking of it; to sit esurient at his own
table, and commend the flavour of his venison upon the absurd strength of his never touching
it himself. On the contrary, we love to see a wag taste his own joke to his party; to watch
a quirk, or a merry conceit, flickering upon the lips some seconds before the tongue is delivered
of it. If it be good, fresh, and racy--begotten of the occasion; if he that utters it never
thought it before, he is naturally the first to be tickled with it; and any suppression of
such complacence we hold to be churlish and insulting. What does it seem to imply, but that
your company is weak or foolish enough to be moved by an image or a fancy, that shall stir
you not at all, or but faintly? This is exactly the humour of the fine gentleman in Mandeville,
who, while he dazzles his guests with the display of some costly toy, affects himself to "see
nothing considerable in it."

IV.--THAT SUCH A ONE SHOWS HIS BREEDING.--THAT IT IS EASY TO PERCEIVE HE IS NO GENTLEMAN

A speech from the poorer sort of people, which always indicates that the party vituperated
is a gentleman. The very fact which they deny, is that which galls and exasperates them to
use this language. The forbearance with which it is usually received, is a proof what interpretation
the bystander sets upon it. Of a kin to this, and still less politic, are the phrases with
which, in their street rhetoric, they ply one another more grossly:--He is a poor creature.--He
has not a rag to cover--&c.; though this last, we confess, is more frequently applied by females
to females. They do not perceive that the satire glances upon themselves. A poor man, of all
things in the world, should not upbraid an antagonist with poverty. Are there no other topics--as,
to tell him his father was hanged--his sister, &c.--, without exposing a secret, which should
be kept snug between them; and doing an affront to the order to which they have the honour
equally to belong? All this while they do not see how the wealthier man stands by and laughs
in his sleeve at both.

V.--THAT THE POOR COPY THE VICES OF THE RICH

A smooth text to the latter; and, preached from the pulpit, is sure of a docile audience from
the pews lined with satin. It is twice sitting upon velvet to a foolish squire to be told,
that he--and not perverse nature, as the homilies would make us imagine, is the true cause
of all the irregularities in his parish. This is striking at the root of free-will indeed,
and denying the originality of sin in any sense. But men are not such implicit sheep as this
comes to. If the abstinence from evil on the part of the upper classes is to derive itself
from no higher principle, than the apprehension of setting ill patterns to the lower, we beg
leave to discharge them from all squeamishness on that score: they may even take their fill
of pleasures, where they can find them. The Genius of Poverty, hampered and straitened as it
is, is not so barren of invention but it can trade upon the staple of its own vice, without
drawing upon their capital. The poor are not quite such servile imitators as they take them
for. Some of them are very clever artists in their way. Here and there we find an original.
Who taught the poor to steal, to pilfer? They did not go to the great for schoolmasters in
these faculties surely. It is well if in some vices they allow us to be--no copyists. In no
other sense is it true that the poor copy them, than as servants may be said to take after
their masters and mistresses, when they succeed to their reversionary cold meats. If the master,
from indisposition or some other cause, neglect his food, the servant dines notwithstanding.

"O, but (some will say) the force of example is great." We knew a lady who was so scrupulous
on this head, that she would put up with the calls of the most impertinent visitor, rather
than let her servant say she was not at home, for fear of teaching her maid to tell an untruth;
and this in the very face of the fact, which she knew well enough, that the wench was one of
the greatest liars upon the earth without teaching; so much so, that her mistress possibly
never heard two words of consecutive truth from her in her life. But nature must go for nothing:
example must be every thing. This liar in grain, who never opened her mouth without a lie,
must be guarded against a remote inference, which she (pretty casuist!) might possibly draw
from a form of words--literally false, but essentially deceiving no one--that under some circumstances
a fib might not be so exceedingly sinful--a fiction, too, not at all in her own way, or one
that she could be suspected of adopting, for few servant-wenches care to be denied to visitors.

This word example reminds us of another fine word which is in use upon these occasions--encouragement.
"People in our sphere must not be thought to give encouragement to such proceedings." To such
a frantic height is this principle capable of being carried, that we have known individuals
who have thought it within the scope of their influence to sanction despair, and give éclat
to--suicide. A domestic in the family of a county member lately deceased, for love, or some
unknown cause, cut his throat, but not successfully. The poor fellow was otherwise much loved
and respected; and great interest was used in his behalf, upon his recovery, that he might
be permitted to retain his place; his word being first pledged, not without some substantial
sponsors to promise for him, than the like should never happen again. His master was inclinable
to keep him, but his mistress thought otherwise; and John in the end was dismissed, her ladyship
declaring that she "could not think of encouraging any such doings in the county."

VI.--THAT ENOUGH IS AS GOOD AS A FEAST

Not a man, woman, or child in ten miles round Guildhall, who really believes this saying. The
inventor of it did not believe it himself. It was made in revenge by somebody, who was disappointed
of a regale. It is a vile cold-scrag-of-mutton sophism; a lie palmed upon the palate, which
knows better things. If nothing else could be said for a feast, this is sufficient, that from
the superflux there is usually something left for the next day. Morally interpreted, it belongs
to a class of proverbs, which have a tendency to make us undervalue money. Of this cast are
those notable observations, that money is not health; riches cannot purchase every thing: the
metaphor which makes gold to be mere muck, with the morality which traces fine clothing to
the sheep's back, and denounces pearl as the unhandsome excretion of an oyster. Hence, too,
the phrase which imputes dirt to acres--a sophistry so barefaced, that even the literal sense
of it is true only in a wet season. This, and abundance of similar sage saws assuming to inculcate
content, we verily believe to have been the invention of some cunning borrower, who had designs
upon the purse of his wealthier neighbour, which he could only hope to carry by force of these
verbal jugglings. Translate any one of these sayings out of the artful metonyme which envelops
it, and the trick is apparent. Goodly legs and shoulders of mutton, exhilarating cordials,
books, pictures, the opportunities of seeing foreign countries, independence, heart's ease,
a man's own time to himself, are not muck--however we may be pleased to scandalise with that
appellation the faithful metal that provides them for us.

VII.--OF TWO DISPUTANTS, THE WARMEST IS GENERALLY IN THE WRONG

Our experience would lead us to quite an opposite conclusion. Temper, indeed, is no test of
truth; but warmth and earnestness are a proof at least of a man's own conviction of the rectitude
of that which he maintains. Coolness is as often the result of an unprincipled indifference
to truth or falsehood, as of a sober confidence in a man's own side in a dispute. Nothing is
more insulting sometimes than the appearance of this philosophic temper. There is little Titubus,
the stammering law-stationer in Lincoln's Inn--we have seldom known this shrewd little fellow
engaged in an argument where we were not convinced he had the best of it, if his tongue would
but fairly have seconded him. When he has been spluttering excellent broken sense for an hour
together, writhing and labouring to be delivered of the point of dispute--the very gist of
the controversy knocking at his teeth, which like some obstinate iron-grating still obstructed
its deliverance--his puny frame convulsed, and face reddening all over at an unfairness in
the logic which he wanted articulation to expose, it has moved our gall to see a smooth portly
fellow of an adversary, that cared not a button for the merits of the question, by merely laying
his hand upon the head of the stationer, and desiring him to be calm (your tall disputants
have always the advantage), with a provoking sneer carry the argument clean from him in the
opinion of all the bystanders, who have gone away clearly convinced that Titubus must have
been in the wrong, because he was in a passion; and that Mr.----, meaning his opponent, is
one of the fairest, and at the same time one of the most dispassionate arguers breathing.

VIII.--THAT VERBAL ALLUSIONS ARE NOT WIT, BECAUSE THEY WILL NOT BEAR A TRANSLATION

The same might be said of the wittiest local allusions. A custom is sometimes as difficult
to explain to a foreigner as a pun. What would become of a great part of the wit of the last
age, if it were tried by this test? How would certain topics, as aldermanity, cuckoldry, have
sounded to a Terentian auditory, though Terence himself had been alive to translate them? Senator
urbanus, with Curruca to boot for a synonime, would but faintly have done the business. Words,
involving notions, are hard enough to render; it is too much to expect us to translate a sound,
and give an elegant version to a jingle. The Virgilian harmony is not translatable, but by
substituting harmonious sounds in another language for it. To Latinise a pun, we must seek
a pun in Latin, that will answer to it; as, to give an idea of the double endings in Hudibras,
we must have recourse to a similar practice in the old monkish doggrel. Dennis, the fiercest
oppugner of puns in ancient or modern times, professes himself highly tickled with the "a stick"
chiming to "ecclesiastic." Yet what is this but a species of pun, a verbal consonance?

IX.--THAT THE WORST PUNS ARE THE BEST

If by worst be only meant the most far-fetched and startling, we agree to it. A pun is not
bound by the laws which limit nicer wit. It is a pistol let off at the ear; not a feather to
tickle the intellect. It is an antic which does not stand upon manners, but comes bounding
into the presence, and does not show the less comic for being dragged in sometimes by the head
and shoulders. What though it limp a little, or prove defective in one leg--all the better.
A pun may easily be too curious and artificial. Who has not at one time or other been at a
party of professors (himself perhaps an old offender in that line), where, after ringing a
round of the most ingenious conceits, every man contributing his shot, and some there the most
expert shooters of the day; after making a poor word run the gauntlet till it is ready to drop;
after hunting and winding it through all the possible ambages of similar sounds; after squeezing,
and hauling, and tugging at it, till the very milk of it will not yield a drop further,--suddenly
some obscure, unthought-of fellow in a corner, who was never 'prentice to the trade, whom the
company for very pity passed over, as we do by a known poor man when a money-subscription is
going round, no one calling upon him for his quota--has all at once come out with something
so whimsical, yet so pertinent; so brazen in its pretensions, yet so impossible to be denied;
so exquisitely good, and so deplorably bad, at the same time,--that it has proved a Robin Hood's
shot; any thing ulterior to that is despaired of; and the party breaks up, unanimously voting
it to be the very worst (that is, best) pun of the evening. This species of wit is the better
for not being perfect in all its parts. What it gains in completeness, it loses in naturalness.
The more exactly it satisfies the critical, the less hold it has upon some other faculties.
The puns which are most entertaining are those which will least bear an analysis. Of this kind
is the following, recorded, with a sort of stigma, in one of Swift's Miscellanies.

An Oxford scholar, meeting a porter who was carrying a hare through the streets, accosts him
with this extraordinary question: "Prithee, friend, is that thy own hare, or a wig?"

There is no excusing this, and no resisting it. A man might blur ten sides of paper in attempting
a defence of it against a critic who should be laughter-proof. The quibble in itself is not
considerable. It is only a new turn given, by a little false pronunciation, to a very common,
though not very courteous inquiry. Put by one gentleman to another at a dinner-party, it would
have been vapid; to the mistress of the house, it would have shown much less wit than rudeness.
We must take in the totality of time, place, and person; the pert look of the inquiring scholar,
the desponding looks of the puzzled porter; the one stopping at leisure, the other hurrying
on with his burthen; the innocent though rather abrupt tendency of the first member of the
question, with the utter and inextricable irrelevancy of the second; the place--a public street,
not favourable to frivolous investigations; the affrontive quality of the primitive inquiry
(the common question) invidiously transferred to the derivative (the new turn given to it)
in the implied satire; namely, that few of that tribe are expected to eat of the good things
which they carry, they being in most countries considered rather as the temporary trustees
than owners of such dainties,--which the fellow was beginning to understand; but then the wig
again comes in, and he can make nothing of it: all put together constitute a picture: Hogarth
could have made it intelligible on canvass.

Yet nine out of ten critics will pronounce this a very bad pun, because of the defectiveness
in the concluding member, which is its very beauty, and constitutes the surprise. The same
persons shall cry up for admirable the cold quibble from Virgil about the broken Cremona;[1]
because it is made out in all its parts, and leaves nothing to the imagination. We venture
to call it cold; because of thousands who have admired it, it would be difficult to find one
who has heartily chuckled at it. As appealing to the judgment merely (setting the risible faculty
aside,) we must pronounce it a monument of curious felicity. But as some stories are said to
be too good to be true, it may with equal truth be asserted of this bi-verbal allusion, that
it is too good to be natural. One cannot help suspecting that the incident was invented to
fit the line. It would have been better had it been less perfect. Like some Virgilian hemistichs,
it has suffered by filling up. The nimium Vicina was enough in conscience; the Cremonæ afterwards
loads it. It is in fact a double pun; and we have always observed that a superfoetation in
this sort of wit is dangerous. When a man has said a good thing, it is seldom politic to follow
it up. We do not care to be cheated a second time; or, perhaps, the mind of man (with reverence
be it spoken) is not capacious enough to lodge two puns at a time. The impression, to be forcible,
must be simultaneous and undivided.

[Footnote 1: Swift.]

X.--THAT HANDSOME IS THAT HANDSOME DOES

Those who use this proverb can never have seen Mrs. Conrady.

The soul, if we may believe Plotinus, is a ray from the celestial beauty. As she partakes more
or less of this heavenly light, she informs, with corresponding characters, the fleshly tenement
which she chooses, and frames to herself a suitable mansion.

All which only proves that the soul of Mrs. Conrady, in her pre-existent state, was no great
judge of architecture.

From which it would follow, that Spenser had seen somebody like Mrs. Conrady.

The spirit of this good lady--her previous anima--must have stumbled upon one of these untoward
tabernacles which he speaks of. A more rebellious commodity of clay for a ground, as the poet
calls it, no gentle mind--and sure hers is one of the gentlest--ever had to deal with.

Pondering upon her inexplicable visage--inexplicable, we mean, but by this modification of
the theory--we have come to a conclusion that, if one must be plain, it is better to be plain
all over, than, amidst a tolerable residue of features, to hang out one that shall be exceptionable.
No one can say of Mrs. Conrady's countenance, that it would be better if she had but a nose.
It is impossible to pull her to pieces in this manner. We have seen the most malicious beauties
of her own sex baffled in the attempt at a selection. The tout ensemble defies particularising.
It is too complete--too consistent, as we may say--to admit of these invidious reservations.
It is not as if some Apelles had picked out here a lip--and there a chin--out of the collected
ugliness of Greece, to frame a model by. It is a symmetrical whole. We challenge the minutest
connoisseur to cavil at any part or parcel of the countenance in question; to say that this,
or that, is improperly placed. We are convinced that true ugliness, no less than is affirmed
of true beauty, is the result of harmony. Like that too it reigns without a competitor. No
one ever saw Mrs. Conrady, without pronouncing her to be the plainest woman that he ever met
with in the course of his life. The first time that you are indulged with a sight of her face,
is an era in your existence ever after. You are glad to have seen it--like Stonehenge. No one
can pretend to forget it. No one ever apologised to her for meeting her in the street on such
a day and not knowing her: the pretext would be too bare. Nobody can mistake her for another.
Nobody can say of her, "I think I have seen that face somewhere, but I cannot call to mind
where." You must remember that in such a parlour it first struck you--like a bust. You wondered
where the owner of the house had picked it up. You wondered more when it began to move its
lips--so mildly too! No one ever thought of asking her to sit for her picture. Lockets are
for remembrance; and it would be clearly superfluous to hang an image at your heart, which,
once seen, can never be out of it. It is not a mean face either; its entire originality precludes
that. Neither is it of that order of plain faces which improve upon acquaintance. Some very
good but ordinary people, by an unwearied perseverance in good offices, put a cheat upon our
eyes: juggle our senses out of their natural impressions; and set us upon discovering good
indications in a countenance, which at first sight promised nothing less. We detect gentleness,
which had escaped us, lurking about an under lip. But when Mrs. Conrady has done you a service,
her face remains the same; when she has done you a thousand, and you know that she is ready
to double the number, still it is that individual face. Neither can you say of it, that it
would be a good face if it was not marked by the small pox--a compliment which is always more
admissive than excusatory--for either Mrs. Conrady never had the small pox; or, as we say,
took it kindly. No, it stands upon its own merits fairly. There it is. It is her mark, her
token; that which she is known by.

XI.--THAT WE MUST NOT LOOK A GIFT-HORSE IN THE MOUTH

Nor a lady's age in the parish register. We hope we have more delicacy than to do either: but
some faces spare us the trouble of these dental inquiries. And what if the beast, which my
friend would force upon my acceptance, prove, upon the face of it, a sorry Rozinante, a lean,
ill-favoured jade, whom no gentleman could think of setting up in his stables? Must I, rather
than not be obliged to my friend, make her a companion to Eclipse or Lightfoot? A horse-giver,
no more than a horse-seller, has a right to palm his spavined article upon us for good ware.
An equivalent is expected in either case; and, with my own good will, I would no more be cheated
out of my thanks, than out of my money. Some people have a knack of putting upon you gifts
of no real value, to engage you to substantial gratitude. We thank them for nothing. Our friend
Mitis carries this humour of never refusing a present, to the very point of absurdity--if it
were possible to couple the ridiculous with so much mistaken delicacy, and real good-nature.
Not an apartment in his fine house (and he has a true taste in household decorations), but
is stuffed up with some preposterous print or mirror--the worst adapted to his pannels that
may be--the presents of his friends that know his weakness; while his noble Vandykes are displaced,
to make room for a set of daubs, the work of some wretched artist of his acquaintance, who,
having had them returned upon his hands for bad likenesses, finds his account in bestowing
them here gratis. The good creature has not the heart to mortify the painter at the expense
of an honest refusal. It is pleasant (if it did not vex one at the same time) to see him sitting
in his dining parlour, surrounded with obscure aunts and cousins to God knows whom, while the
true Lady Marys and Lady Bettys of his own honourable family, in favour to these adopted frights,
are consigned to the staircase and the lumber-room. In like manner his goodly shelves are one
by one stript of his favourite old authors, to give place to a collection of presentation copies--the
flower and bran of modern poetry. A presentation copy, reader--if haply you are yet innocent
of such favours--is a copy of a book which does not sell, sent you by the author, with his
foolish autograph at the beginning of it; for which, if a stranger, he only demands your friendship;
if a brother author, he expects from you a book of yours which does sell, in return. We can
speak to experience, having by us a tolerable assortment of these gift-horses. Not to ride
a metaphor to death--we are willing to acknowledge, that in some gifts there is sense. A duplicate
out of a friend's library (where he has more than one copy of a rare author) is intelligible.
There are favours, short of the pecuniary--a thing not fit to be hinted at among gentlemen--which
confer as much grace upon the acceptor as the offerer: the kind, we confess, which is most
to our palate, is of those little conciliatory missives, which for their vehicle generally
choose a hamper--little odd presents of game, fruit, perhaps wine--though it is essential to
the delicacy of the latter that it be home-made. We love to have our friend in the country
sitting thus at our table by proxy; to apprehend his presence (though a hundred miles may be
between us) by a turkey, whose goodly aspect reflects to us his "plump corpusculum;" to taste
him in grouse or woodcock; to feel him gliding down in the toast peculiar to the latter; to
concorporate him in a slice of Canterbury brawn. This is indeed to have him within ourselves;
to know him intimately: such participation is methinks unitive, as the old theologians phrase
it. For these considerations we should be sorry if certain restrictive regulations, which are
thought to bear hard upon the peasantry of this country, were entirely done away with. A hare,
as the law now stands, makes many friends. Caius conciliates Titius (knowing his goût) with
a leash of partridges. Titius (suspecting his partiality for them) passes them to Lucius; who
in his turn, preferring his friend's relish to his own, makes them over to Marcius; till in
their ever widening progress, and round of unconscious circum-migration, they distribute the
seeds of harmony over half a parish. We are well disposed to this kind of sensible remembrances;
and are the less apt to be taken by those little airy tokens--inpalpable to the palate--which,
under the names of rings, lockets, keep-sakes, amuse some people's fancy mightily. We could
never away with these indigestible trifles. They are the very kickshaws and foppery of friendship.

XII.--THAT HOME IS HOME THOUGH IT IS NEVER SO HOMELY

Homes there are, we are sure, that are no homes: the home of the very poor man, and another
which we shall speak to presently. Crowded places of cheap entertainment, and the benches of
ale-houses, if they could speak, might bear mournful testimony to the first. To them the very
poor man resorts for an image of the home, which he cannot find at home. For a starved grate,
and a scanty firing, that is not enough to keep alive the natural heat in the fingers of so
many shivering children with their mother, he finds in the depth of winter always a blazing
hearth, and a hob to warm his pittance of beer by. Instead of the clamours of a wife, made
gaunt by famishing, he meets with a cheerful attendance beyond the merits of the trifle which
he can afford to spend. He has companions which his home denies him, for the very poor man
has no visiters. He can look into the goings on of the world, and speak a little to politics.
At home there are no politics stirring, but the domestic. Beyond the price of bread, news is
senseless and impertinent. At home there is no larder. Here there is at least a show of plenty;
and while he cooks his lean scrap of butcher's meat before the common bars, or munches his
humbler cold viands, his relishing bread and cheese with an onion, in a corner, where no one
reflects upon his poverty, he has sight of the substantial joint providing for the landlord
and his family. He takes an interest in the dressing of it; and while he assists in removing
the trivet from the fire, he feels that there is such a thing as beef and cabbage, which he
was beginning to forget at home. All this while he deserts his wife and children. But what
wife, and what children? Prosperous men, who object to this desertion, image to themselves
some clean contented family like that which they go home to. But look at the countenance of
the poor wives who follow and persecute their good man to the door of the public house, which
he is about to enter, when something like shame would restrain him, if stronger misery did
not induce him to pass the threshold. That face, ground by want, in which every cheerful, every
conversable lineament has been long effaced by misery,--is that a face to stay at home with?
is it more a woman, or a wild cat? alas! it is the face of the wife of his youth, that once
smiled upon him. It can smile no longer. What comforts can it share? what burthens can it lighten?
Oh, 'tis a fine thing to talk of the humble meal shared together! But what if there be no bread
in the cupboard? The innocent prattle of his children takes out the sting of a man's poverty.
But the children of the very poor do not prattle. It is none of the least frightful features
in that condition, that there is no childishness in its dwellings. Poor people, said a sensible
old nurse to us once, do not bring up their children; they drag them up. The little careless
darling of the wealthier nursery, in their hovel is transformed betimes into a premature reflecting
person. No one has time to dandle it, no one thinks it worth while to coax it, to soothe it,
to toss it up and down, to humour it. There is none to kiss away its tears. If it cries, it
can only be beaten. It has been prettily said that "a babe is fed with milk and praise." But
the aliment of this poor babe was thin, unnourishing; the return to its little baby-tricks,
and efforts to engage attention, bitter ceaseless objurgation. It never had a toy, or knew
what a coral meant. It grew up without the lullaby of nurses, it was a stranger to the patient
fondle, the hushing caress, the attracting novelty, the costlier plaything, or the cheaper
off-hand contrivance to divert the child; the prattled nonsense (best sense to it), the wise
impertinences, the wholesome lies, the apt story interposed, that puts a stop to present sufferings,
and awakens the passion of young wonder. It was never sung to--no one ever told to it a tale
of the nursery. It was dragged up, to live or to die as it happened. It had no young dreams.
It broke at once into the iron realities of life. A child exists not for the very poor as any
object of dalliance; it is only another mouth to be fed, a pair of little hands to be betimes
inured to labour. It is the rival, till it can be the co-operator, for food with the parent.
It is never his mirth, his diversion, his solace; it never makes him young again, with recalling
his young times. The children of the very poor have no young times. It makes the very heart
to bleed to overhear the casual street-talk between a poor woman and her little girl, a woman
of the better sort of poor, in a condition rather above the squalid beings which we have been
contemplating. It is not of toys, of nursery books, of summer holidays (fitting that age);
of the promised sight, or play; of praised sufficiency at school. It is of mangling and clear-starching,
of the price of coals, or of potatoes. The questions of the child, that should be the very
outpourings of curiosity in idleness, are marked with forecast and melancholy providence. It
has come to be a woman, before it was a child. It has learned to go to market; it chaffers,
it haggles, it envies, it murmurs; it is knowing, acute, sharpened; it never prattles. Had
we not reason to say, that the home of the very poor is no home?

There is yet another home, which we are constrained to deny to be one. It has a larder, which
the home of the poor man wants; its fireside conveniences, of which the poor dream not. But
with all this, it is no home. It is--the house of the man that is infested with many visiters.
May we be branded for the veriest churl, if we deny our heart to the many noble-hearted friends
that at times exchange their dwelling for our poor roof! It is not of guests that we complain,
but of endless, purposeless visitants; droppers in, as they are called. We sometimes wonder
from what sky they fall. It is the very error of the position of our lodging; its horoscopy
was ill calculated, being just situate in a medium--a plaguy suburban mid-space--fitted to
catch idlers from town or country. We are older than we were, and age is easily put out of
its way. We have fewer sands in our glass to reckon upon, and we cannot brook to see them drop
in endlessly succeeding impertinences. At our time of life, to be alone sometimes is as needful
as sleep. It is the refreshing sleep of the day. The growing infirmities of age manifest themselves
in nothing more strongly, than in an inveterate dislike of interruption. The thing which we
are doing, we wish to be permitted to do. We have neither much knowledge nor devices; but there
are fewer in the place to which we hasten. We are not willingly put out of our way, even at
a game of nine-pins. While youth was, we had vast reversions in time future; we are reduced
to a present pittance, and obliged to economise in that article. We bleed away our moments
now as hardly as our ducats. We cannot bear to have our thin wardrobe eaten and fretted into
by moths. We are willing to barter our good time with a friend, who gives us in exchange his
own. Herein is the distinction between the genuine guest and the visitant. This latter takes
your good time, and gives you his bad in exchange. The guest is domestic to you as your good
cat, or household bird; the visitant is your fly, that flaps in at your window, and out again,
leaving nothing but a sense of disturbance, and victuals spoiled. The inferior functions of
life begin to move heavily. We cannot concoct our food with interruptions. Our chief meal,
to be nutritive, must be solitary. With difficulty we can eat before a guest; and never understood
what the relish of public feasting meant. Meats have no sapor, nor digestion fair play, in
a crowd. The unexpected coming in of a visitant stops the machine. There is a punctual generation
who time their calls to the precise commencement of your dining-hour--not to eat--but to see
you eat. Our knife and fork drop instinctively, and we feel that we have swallowed our latest
morsel. Others again show their genius, as we have said, in knocking the moment you have just
sat down to a book. They have a peculiar compassionating sneer, with which they "hope that
they do not interrupt your studies." Though they flutter off the next moment, to carry their
impertinences to the nearest student that they can call their friend, the tone of the book
is spoiled; we shut the leaves, and, with Dante's lovers, read no more that day. It were well
if the effect of intrusion were simply co-extensive with its presence; but it mars all the
good hours afterwards. These scratches in appearance leave an orifice that closes not hastily.
"It is a prostitution of the bravery of friendship," says worthy Bishop Taylor, "to spend it
upon impertinent people, who are, it may be, loads to their families, but can never ease my
loads." This is the secret of their gaddings, their visits, and morning calls. They too have
homes, which are--no homes.

XIII.--THAT YOU MUST LOVE ME, AND LOVE MY DOG

"Good sir, or madam, as it may be--we most willingly embrace the offer of your friendship.
We long have known your excellent qualities. We have wished to have you nearer to us; to hold
you within the very innermost fold of our heart. We can have no reserve towards a person of
your open and noble nature. The frankness of your humour suits us exactly. We have been long
looking for such a friend. Quick--let us disburthen our troubles into each other's bosom--let
us make our single joys shine by reduplication--But yap, yap, yap!--what is this confounded
cur? he has fastened his tooth, which is none of the bluntest, just in the fleshy part of my leg."

"It is my dog, sir. You must love him for my sake. Here, Test--Test--Test!"

"But he has bitten me."

"Ay, that he is apt to do, till you are better acquainted with him. I have had him three years.
He never bites me."

Yap, yap, yap!--"He is at it again."

"Oh, sir, you must not kick him. He does not like to be kicked. I expect my dog to be treated
with all the respect due to myself."

"But do you always take him out with you, when you go a friendship-hunting?"

"Invariably. 'Tis the sweetest, prettiest, best-conditioned animal. I call him my test--the
touchstone by which I try a friend. No one can properly be said to love me, who does not love him."

"Excuse us, dear sir--or madam aforesaid--if upon further consideration we are obliged to decline
the otherwise invaluable offer of your friendship. We do not like dogs."

"Mighty well, sir--you know the conditions--you may have worse offers. Come along, Test."

The above dialogue is not so imaginary, but that, in the intercourse of life, we have had frequent
occasions of breaking off an agreeable intimacy by reason of these canine appendages. They
do not always come in the shape of dogs; they sometimes wear the more plausible and human character
of kinsfolk, near acquaintances, my friend's friend, his partner, his wife, or his children.
We could never yet form a friendship--not to speak of more delicate correspondences--however
much to our taste, without the intervention of some third anomaly, some impertinent clog affixed
to the relation--the understood dog in the proverb. The good things of life are not to be had
singly, but come to us with a mixture; like a schoolboy's holiday, with a task affixed to the
tail of it. What a delightful companion is ****, if he did not always bring his tall cousin
with him! He seems to grow with him; like some of those double births, which we remember to
have read of with such wonder and delight in the old "Athenian Oracle," where Swift commenced
author by writing Pindaric Odes (what a beginning for him!) upon Sir William Temple. There
is the picture of the brother, with the little brother peeping out at his shoulder; a species
of fraternity, which we have no name of kin close enough to comprehend. When **** comes, poking
in his head and shoulders into your room, as if to feel his entry, you think, surely you have
now got him to yourself--what a three hours' chat we shall have!--but, ever in the haunch of
him, and before his diffident body is well disclosed in your apartment, appears the haunting
shadow of the cousin, over-peering his modest kinsman, and sure to over-lay the expected good
talk with his insufferable procerity of stature, and uncorresponding dwarfishness of observation.
Misfortunes seldom come alone. 'Tis hard when a blessing comes accompanied. Cannot we like
Sempronia, without sitting down to chess with her eternal brother? or know Sulpicia, without
knowing all the round of her card-playing relations? must my friend's brethren of necessity
be mine also? must we be hand and glove with Dick Selby the parson, or Jack Selby the calico
printer, because W.S., who is neither, but a ripe wit and a critic, has the misfortune to claim
a common parentage with them? Let him lay down his brothers; and 'tis odds but we will cast
him in a pair of ours (we have a superflux) to balance the concession. Let F.H. lay down his
garrulous uncle; and Honorius dismiss his vapid wife, and superfluous establishment of six
boys--things between boy and manhood--too ripe for play, too raw for conversation--that come
in, impudently staring their father's old friend out of countenance; and will neither aid,
nor let alone, the conference: that we may once more meet upon equal terms, as we were wont
to do in the disengaged state of bachelorhood.

It is well if your friend, or mistress, be content with these canicular probations. Few young
ladies but in this sense keep a dog. But when Rutilia hounds at you her tiger aunt; or Ruspina
expects you to cherish and fondle her viper sister, whom she has preposterously taken into
her bosom, to try stinging conclusions upon your constancy; they must not complain if the house
be rather thin of suitors. Scylla must have broken off many excellent matches in her time,
if she insisted upon all, that loved her, loving her dogs also.

An excellent story to this moral is told of Merry, of Della Cruscan memory. In tender youth,
he loved and courted a modest appanage to the Opera, in truth a dancer, who had won him by
the artless contrast between her manners and situation. She seemed to him a native violet,
that had been transplanted by some rude accident into that exotic and artificial hotbed. Nor,
in truth, was she less genuine and sincere than she appeared to him. He wooed and won this
flower. Only for appearance' sake, and for due honour to the bride's relations, she craved
that she might have the attendance of her friends and kindred at the approaching solemnity.
The request was too amiable not to be conceded; and in this solicitude for conciliating the
good will of mere relations, he found a presage of her superior attentions to himself, when
the golden shaft should have "killed the flock of all affections else." The morning came; and
at the Star and Garter, Richmond--the place appointed for the breakfasting--accompanied with
one English friend, he impatiently awaited what reinforcements the bride should bring to grace
the ceremony. A rich muster she had made. They came in six coaches--the whole corps du ballet--French,
Italian, men and women. Monsieur de B., the famous pirouetter of the day, led his fair spouse,
but craggy, from the banks of the Seine. The Prima Donna had sent her excuse. But the first
and second Buffa were there; and Signor Sc----, and Signora Ch----, and Madame V----, with
a countless cavalcade besides of chorusers, figurantes, at the sight of whom Merry afterwards
declared, that "then for the first time it struck him seriously, that he was about to marry--a
dancer." But there was no help for it. Besides, it was her day; these were, in fact, her friends
and kinsfolk. The assemblage, though whimsical, was all very natural. But when the bride--handing
out of the last coach a still more extraordinary figure than the rest--presented to him as
her father--the gentleman that was to give her away--no less a person than Signor Delpini himself--with
a sort of pride, as much as to say, See what I have brought to do us honour!--the thought of
so extraordinary a paternity quite overcame him; and slipping away under some pretence from
the bride and her motley adherents, poor Merry took horse from the back yard to the nearest
sea-coast, from which, shipping himself to America, he shortly after consoled himself with
a more congenial match in the person of Miss Brunton; relieved from his intended clown father,
and a bevy of painted Buffas for bridemaids.

XIV.--THAT WE SHOULD RISE WITH THE LARK

At what precise minute that little airy musician doffs his night gear, and prepares to tune
up his unseasonable matins, we are not naturalists enough to determine. But for a mere human
gentleman--that has no orchestra business to call him from his warm bed to such preposterous
exercises--We take ten, or half after ten (eleven, of course, during this Christmas solstice),
to be the very earliest hour, at which he can begin to think of abandoning his pillow. To think
of it, we say; for to do it in earnest, requires another half hour's good consideration. Not
but there are pretty sun-risings, as we are told, and such like gawds, abroad in the world,
in summer time especially, some hours before what we have assigned; which a gentleman may see,
as they say, only for getting up. But, having been tempted once or twice, in earlier life,
to assist at those ceremonies, we confess our curiosity abated. We are no longer ambitious
of being the sun's courtiers, to attend at his morning levees. We hold the good hours of the
dawn too sacred to waste them upon such observances; which have in them, besides, something
Pagan and Persic. To say truth, we never anticipated our usual hour, or got up with the sun
(as 'tis called), to go a journey, or upon a foolish whole day's pleasuring, but we suffered
for it all the long hours after in listlessness and headachs; Nature herself sufficiently declaring
her sense of our presumption, in aspiring to regulate our frail waking courses by the measures
of that celestial and sleepless traveller. We deny not that there is something sprightly and
vigorous, at the outset especially, in these break-of-day excursions. It is flattering to get
the start of a lazy world; to conquer death by proxy in his image. But the seeds of sleep and
mortality are in us; and we pay usually in strange qualms, before night falls, the penalty
of the unnatural inversion. Therefore, while the busy part of mankind are fast huddling on
their clothes, are already up and about their occupations, content to have swallowed their
sleep by wholesale; we chose to linger a-bed, and digest our dreams. It is the very time to
recombine the wandering images, which night in a confused mass presented; to snatch them from
forgetfulness; to shape, and mould them. Some people have no good of their dreams. Like fast
feeders, they gulp them too grossly, to taste them curiously. We love to chew the cud of a
foregone vision: to collect the scattered rays of a brighter phantasm, or act over again, with
firmer nerves, the sadder nocturnal tragedies; to drag into day-light a struggling and half-vanishing
night-mare; to handle and examine the terrors, or the airy solaces. We have too much respect
for these spiritual communications, to let them go so lightly. We are not so stupid, or so
careless, as that Imperial forgetter of his dreams, that we should need a seer to remind us
of the form of them. They seem to us to have as much significance as our waking concerns; or
rather to import us more nearly, as more nearly we approach by years to the shadowy world,
whither we are hastening. We have shaken hands with the world's business; we have done with
it; we have discharged ourself of it. Why should we get up? we have neither suit to solicit,
nor affairs to manage. The drama has shut in upon us at the fourth act. We have nothing here
to expect, but in a short time a sick bed, and a dismissal. We delight to anticipate death
by such shadows as night affords. We are already half acquainted with ghosts. Our spirits showed
grey before our hairs. The mighty changes of the world already appear as but the vain stuff
out of which dramas are composed. We have asked no more of life than what the mimic images
in play-houses present us with. Even those types have waxed fainter. Our clock appears to have
struck. We are SUPERANNUATED. In this dearth of mundane satisfaction, we contract politic alliances
with shadows. It is good to have friends at court. The abstracted media of dreams seem no ill
introduction to that spiritual presence, upon which, in no long time, we expect to be thrown.
We are trying to know a little of the usages of that colony; to learn the language, and the
faces we shall meet with there, that we may be the less awkward at our first coming among them.
We willingly call a phantom our fellow, as knowing we shall soon be of their dark companionship.
Therefore, we cherish dreams. We try to spell in them the alphabet of the invisible world;
and think we know already, how it shall be with us. Those uncouth shapes, which, while we clung
to flesh and blood, affrighted us, have become familiar. We feel attenuated into their meagre
essences, and have given the hand of half-way approach to incorporeal being. We once thought
life to be something; but it has unaccountably fallen from us before its time. Therefore we
choose to dally with visions. The sun has no purposes of ours to light us to. Why should we get up?

XV.--THAT WE SHOULD LIE DOWN WITH THE LAMB

We could never quite understand the philosophy of this arrangement, or the wisdom of our ancestors
in sending us for instruction to these woolly bedfellows. A sheep, when it is dark, has nothing
to do but to shut his silly eyes, and sleep if he can. Man found out long sixes.--Hail candle-light!
without disparagement to sun or moon, the kindliest luminary of the three--if we may not rather
style thee their radiant deputy, mild viceroy of the moon!--We love to read, talk, sit silent,
eat, drink, sleep, by candle-light. They are every body's sun and moon. This is our peculiar
and household planet. Wanting it, what savage unsocial nights must our ancestors have spent,
wintering in caves and unillumined fastnesses! They must have lain about and grumbled at one
another in the dark. What repartees could have passed, when you must have felt about for a
smile, and handled a neighbour's cheek to be sure that he understood it? This accounts for
the seriousness of the elder poetry. It has a sombre cast (try Hesiod or Ossian), derived from
the tradition of those unlantern'd nights. Jokes came in with candles. We wonder how they saw
to pick up a pin, if they had any. How did they sup? what a melange of chance carving they
must have made of it!--here one had got a leg of a goat, when he wanted a horse's shoulder--there
another had dipt his scooped palm in a kid-skin of wild honey, when he meditated right mare's
milk. There is neither good eating nor drinking in fresco. Who, even in these civilised times,
has never experienced this, when at some economic table he has commenced dining after dusk,
and waited for the flavour till the lights came? The senses absolutely give and take reciprocally.
Can you tell pork from veal in the dark? or distinguish Sherris from pure Malaga? Take away
the candle from the smoking man; by the glimmering of the left ashes, he knows that he is still
smoking, but he knows it only by an inference; till the restored light, coming in aid of the
olfactories, reveals to both senses the full aroma. Then how he redoubles his puffs! how he
burnishes!--There is absolutely no such thing as reading, but by a candle. We have tried the
affectation of a book at noon-day in gardens, and in sultry arbours; but it was labour thrown
away. Those gay motes in the beam come about you, hovering and teazing, like so many coquets,
that will have you all to their self, and are jealous of your abstractions. By the midnight
taper, the writer digests his meditations. By the same light, we must approach to their perusal,
if we would catch the flame, the odour. They are abstracted works--

  "Things that were born, when none but the still night,
  And his dumb candle, saw his pinching throes."

Marry, daylight--daylight might furnish the images, the crude material; but for the fine shapings,
the true turning and filing (as mine author hath it), they must be content to hold their inspiration
of the candle. The mild internal light, that reveals them, like fires on the domestic hearth,
goes out in the sunshine. Even ourself, in these our humbler lucubrations, tune our best measured
cadences (Prose has her cadences) not unfrequently to the charm of the drowsier watchman, "blessing
the doors;" or the wild sweep of winds at midnight. Even now a loftier speculation than we
have yet attempted, courts our endeavours. We would indite something about the Solar System.--Betty,
bring the candles.

XVI.--THAT A SULKY TEMPER IS A MISFORTUNE

We grant that it is, and a very serious one--to a man's friends, and to all that have to do
with him; but whether the condition of the man himself is so much to be deplored, may admit
of a question. We can speak a little to it, being ourself but lately recovered--we whisper
it in confidence, reader--out of a long and desperate fit of the sullens. Was the cure a blessing?
The conviction which wrought it, came too clearly to leave a scruple of the fanciful injuries--for
they were mere fancies--which had provoked the humour. But the humour itself was too self-pleasing,
while it lasted--we know how bare we lay ourself in the confession--to be abandoned all at
once with the grounds of it. We still brood over wrongs which we know to have been imaginary;
and for our old acquaintance, N----, whom we find to have been a truer friend than we took
him for, we substitute some phantom--a Caius or a Titius--as like him as we dare to form it,
to wreak our yet unsatisfied resentments on. It is mortifying to fall at once from the pinnacle
of neglect; to forego the idea of having been ill-used and contumaciously treated by an old
friend. The first thing to aggrandise a man in his own conceit, is to conceive of himself as
neglected. There let him fix if he can. To undeceive him is to deprive him of the most tickling
morsel within the range of self-complacency. No flattery can come near it. Happy is he who
suspects his friend of an injustice; but supremely blest, who thinks all his friends in a conspiracy
to depress and undervalue him. There is a pleasure (we sing not to the profane) far beyond
the reach of all that the world counts joy--a deep, enduring satisfaction in the depths, where
the superficial seek it not, of discontent. Were we to recite one half of this mystery, which
we were let into by our late dissatisfaction, all the world would be in love with disrespect;
we should wear a slight for a bracelet, and neglects and contumacies would be the only matter
for courtship. Unlike to that mysterious book in the Apocalypse, the study of this mystery
is unpalatable only in the commencement. The first sting of a suspicion is grievous; but wait--out
of that wound, which to flesh and blood seemed so difficult, there is balm and honey to be
extracted. Your friend passed you on such or such a day,--having in his company one that you
conceived worse than ambiguously disposed towards you,--passed you in the street without notice.
To be sure he is something shortsighted; and it was in your power to have accosted him. But
facts and sane inferences are trifles to a true adept in the science of dissatisfaction. He
must have seen you; and S----, who was with him, must have been the cause of the contempt.
It galls you, and well it may. But have patience. Go home, and make the worst of it, and you
are a made man from this time. Shut yourself up, and--rejecting, as an enemy to your peace,
every whispering suggestion that but insinuates there may be a mistake--reflect seriously upon
the many lesser instances which you had begun to perceive, in proof of your friend's disaffection
towards you. None of them singly was much to the purpose, but the aggregate weight is positive;
and you have this last affront to clench them. Thus far the process is any thing but agreeable.
But now to your relief comes in the comparative faculty. You conjure up all the kind feelings
you have had for your friend; what you have been to him, and what you would have been to him,
if he would have suffered you; how you defended him in this or that place; and his good name--his
literary reputation, and so forth, was always dearer to you than your own! Your heart, spite
of itself, yearns towards him. You could weep tears of blood but for a restraining pride. How
say you? do you not yet begin to apprehend a comfort? some allay of sweetness in the bitter
waters? Stop not here, nor penuriously cheat yourself of your reversions. You are on vantage
ground. Enlarge your speculations, and take in the rest of your friends, as a spark kindles
more sparks. Was there one among them, who has not to you proved hollow, false, slippery as
water? Begin to think that the relation itself is inconsistent with mortality. That the very
idea of friendship, with its component parts, as honour, fidelity, steadiness, exists but in
your single bosom. Image yourself to yourself, as the only possible friend in a world incapable
of that communion. Now the gloom thickens. The little star of self-love twinkles, that is to
encourage you through deeper glooms than this. You are not yet at the half point of your elevation.
You are not yet, believe me, half sulky enough. Adverting to the world in general, (as these
circles in the mind will spread to infinity) reflect with what strange injustice you have been
treated in quarters where, (setting gratitude and the expectation of friendly returns aside
as chimeras,) you pretended no claim beyond justice, the naked due of all men. Think the very
idea of right and fit fled from the earth, or your breast the solitary receptacle of it, till
you have swelled yourself into at least one hemisphere; the other being the vast Arabia Stony
of your friends and the world aforesaid.