How often have you said: "If only someone had the vision to see and the courage and ability
to state the truth about these false theories which today are attracting our youth and confusing
well-meaning people everywhere!" Well, here is the answer to your prayer--the everlasting truth
upon the greatest of issues in social science stated for you by the master of them all in this
field. If this edition calls this great work to the attention of any of you for the first time,
that alone will amply justify its republication. To those of you who have read it before, we
commend it anew as the most up-to-date and best discussion you can find anywhere of the most
important questions of these critical days.

          --WILLIAM C. MULLENDORE

Los Angeles, California November 15, 1951

WHAT SOCIAL CLASSES OWE TO EACH OTHER

INTRODUCTION

We are told every day that great social problems stand before us and demand a solution, and
we are assailed by oracles, threats, and warnings in reference to those problems. There is
a school of writers who are playing quite a rôle as the heralds of the coming duty and the
coming woe. They assume to speak for a large, but vague and undefined, constituency, who set
the task, exact a fulfillment, and threaten punishment for default. The task or problem is
not specifically defined. Part of the task which devolves on those who are subject to the duty
is to define the problem. They are told only that something is the matter: that it behooves
them to find out what it is, and how to correct it, and then to work out the cure. All this
is more or less truculently set forth.

After reading and listening to a great deal of this sort of assertion I find that the question
forms itself with more and more distinctness in my mind: Who are those who assume to put hard
questions to other people and to demand a solution of them? How did they acquire the right
to demand that others should solve their world-problems for them? Who are they who are held
to consider and solve all questions, and how did they fall under this duty?

So far as I can find out what the classes are who are respectively endowed with the rights
and duties of posing and solving social problems, they are as follows: Those who are bound
to solve the problems are the rich, comfortable, prosperous, virtuous, respectable, educated,
and healthy; those whose right it is to set the problems are those who have been less fortunate
or less successful in the struggle for existence. The problem itself seems to be, How shall
the latter be made as comfortable as the former? To solve this problem, and make us all equally
well off, is assumed to be the duty of the former class; the penalty, if they fail of this,
is to be bloodshed and destruction. If they cannot make everybody else as well off as themselves,
they are to be brought down to the same misery as others.

During the last ten years I have read a great many books and articles, especially by German
writers, in which an attempt has been made to set up "the State" as an entity having conscience,
power, and will sublimated above human limitations, and as constituting a tutelary genius over
us all. I have never been able to find in history or experience anything to fit this concept.
I once lived in Germany for two years, but I certainly saw nothing of it there then. Whether
the State which Bismarck is moulding will fit the notion is at best a matter of faith and hope.
My notion of the State has dwindled with growing experience of life. As an abstraction, the
State is to me only All-of-us. In practice--that is, when it exercises will or adopts a line
of action--it is only a little group of men chosen in a very haphazard way by the majority
of us to perform certain services for all of us. The majority do not go about their selection
very rationally, and they are almost always disappointed by the results of their own operation.
Hence "the State," instead of offering resources of wisdom, right reason, and pure moral sense
beyond what the average of us possess, generally offers much less of all those things. Furthermore,
it often turns out in practice that "the State" is not even the known and accredited servants
of the State, but, as has been well said, is only some obscure clerk, hidden in the recesses
of a Government bureau, into whose power the chance has fallen for the moment to pull one of
the stops which control the Government machine. In former days it often happened that "The
State" was a barber, a fiddler, or a bad woman. In our day it often happens that "the State"
is a little functionary on whom a big functionary is forced to depend.

I cannot see the sense of spending time to read and write observations, such as I find in the
writings of many men of great attainments and of great influence, of which the following might
be a general type: If the statesmen could attain to the requisite knowledge and wisdom, it
is conceivable that the State might perform important regulative functions in the production
and distribution of wealth, against which no positive and sweeping theoretical objection could
be made from the side of economic science; but statesmen never can acquire the requisite knowledge
and wisdom.--To me this seems a mere waste of words. The inadequacy of the State to regulative
tasks is agreed upon, as a matter of fact, by all. Why, then, bring State regulation into the
discussion simply in order to throw it out again? The whole subject ought to be discussed and
settled aside from the hypothesis of State regulation.

The little group of public servants who, as I have said, constitute the State, when the State
determines on anything, could not do much for themselves or anybody else by their own force.
If they do anything, they must dispose of men, as in an army, or of capital, as in a treasury.
But the army, or police, or posse comitatus, is more or less All-of-us, and the capital in
the treasury is the product of the labor and saving of All-of-us. Therefore, when the State
means power-to-do it means All-of-us, as brute force or as industrial force.

If anybody is to benefit from the action of the State it must be Some-of-us. If, then, the
question is raised, What ought the State to do for labor, for trade, for manufactures, for
the poor, for the learned professions? etc., etc.--that is, for a class or an interest--it
is really the question, What ought All-of-us to do for Some-of-us? But Some-of-us are included
in All-of-us, and, so far as they get the benefit of their own efforts, it is the same as if
they worked for themselves, and they may be cancelled out of All-of-us. Then the question which
remains is, What ought Some-of-us to do for Others-of-us? or, What do social classes owe to
each other?

I now propose to try to find out whether there is any class in society which lies under the
duty and burden of fighting the battles of life for any other class, or of solving social problems
for the satisfaction of any other class; also, whether there is any class which has the right
to formulate demands on "society"--that is, on other classes; also, whether there is anything
but a fallacy and a superstition in the notion that "the State" owes anything to anybody except
peace, order, and the guarantees of rights.

I have in view, throughout the discussion, the economic, social, and political circumstances
which exist in the United States.

I.

ON A NEW PHILOSOPHY: THAT POVERTY IS THE BEST POLICY.

It is commonly asserted that there are in the United States no classes, and any allusion to
classes is resented. On the other hand, we constantly read and hear discussions of social topics
in which the existence of social classes is assumed as a simple fact. "The poor," "the weak,"
"the laborers," are expressions which are used as if they had exact and well-understood definition.
Discussions are made to bear upon the assumed rights, wrongs, and misfortunes of certain social
classes; and all public speaking and writing consists, in a large measure, of the discussion
of general plans for meeting the wishes of classes of people who have not been able to satisfy
their own desires. These classes are sometimes discontented, and sometimes not. Sometimes they
do not know that anything is amiss with them until the "friends of humanity" come to them with
offers of aid. Sometimes they are discontented and envious. They do not take their achievements
as a fair measure of their rights. They do not blame themselves or their parents for their
lot, as compared with that of other people. Sometimes they claim that they have a right to
everything of which they feel the need for their happiness on earth. To make such a claim against
God and Nature would, of course, be only to say that we claim a right to live on earth if we
can. But God and Nature have ordained the chances and conditions of life on earth once for
all. The case cannot be reopened. We cannot get a revision of the laws of human life. We are
absolutely shut up to the need and duty, if we would learn how to live happily, of investigating
the laws of Nature, and deducing the rules of right living in the world as it is. These are
very wearisome and commonplace tasks. They consist in labor and self-denial repeated over and
over again in learning and doing. When the people whose claims we are considering are told
to apply themselves to these tasks they become irritated and feel almost insulted. They formulate
their claims as rights against society--that is, against some other men. In their view they
have a right, not only to pursue happiness, but to get it; and if they fail to get it, they
think they have a claim to the aid of other men--that is, to the labor and self-denial of other
men--to get it for them. They find orators and poets who tell them that they have grievances,
so long as they have unsatisfied desires.

Now, if there are groups of people who have a claim to other people's labor and self-denial,
and if there are other people whose labor and self-denial are liable to be claimed by the first
groups, then there certainly are "classes," and classes of the oldest and most vicious type.
For a man who can command another man's labor and self-denial for the support of his own existence
is a privileged person of the highest species conceivable on earth. Princes and paupers meet
on this plane, and no other men are on it all. On the other hand, a man whose labor and self-denial
may be diverted from his maintenance to that of some other man is not a free man, and approaches
more or less toward the position of a slave. Therefore we shall find that, in all the notions
which we are to discuss, this elementary contradiction, that there are classes and that there
are not classes, will produce repeated confusion and absurdity. We shall find that, in our
efforts to eliminate the old vices of class government, we are impeded and defeated by new
products of the worst class theory. We shall find that all the schemes for producing equality
and obliterating the organization of society produce a new differentiation based on the worst
possible distinction--the right to claim and the duty to give one man's effort for another
man's satisfaction. We shall find that every effort to realize equality necessitates a sacrifice
of liberty.

