       *       *       *       *       *

THE DRUG HABIT--ALARMING DEVELOPMENT.

    "The old-fashioned doctor is scandalised at the trade union
    movement in the profession. In extreme cases he is said to be
    taking his own medicines."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from The London Customs Bill of Entry, January 25th:--

    "Import, s. @ Rotterdam, of Holland, 175 bdls baskets containing
    700 strikes."

We always suspected they were of foreign origin; and here we have "manifest" proof.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a report of Col. F.B. MILDMAY'S speech:--

    "Just as an accomplished horseman exercised ideal control over the
    strongest horse with the lightest hand, so Mr. Lowther had shown
    such tactful skill in handling them that those who had sat under
    him had bus-consciously been disposed to accept his guidance."

    Provincial Paper.

A praiseworthy effort of the printer to keep up the metaphor.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PATRIOT PIG.

Last Spring I was discussing food with our local doctor. Last Spring it was quite a favourite
topic.

"Now," I said, "we can manage to scratch along somehow. But next year..."

The Doctor, a hearty man, gave me a smashing blow on the shoulder. "I have it!" he trumpeted.
"We'll start a Patriot Pig Club."

Before he left I found myself an important pillar of the scheme. Pillars, you know, are the
parts of an edifice that bear the weight. Their function is to be sat upon by the arches. In
this case the arches were Jones the doctor and Perkins the butcher.

The Committee began sitting. I put five pounds into the preliminary pool and promised them
all my pig-swill. I know I did, because the Doctor came straight from the meeting to my house
to tell me I had, and to collect the cheque.

The pigs arrived. I myself and a number of other enthusiasts turned out to welcome them. The
Doctor, I remember, made a happy little speech, and we all laughed a lot. The Committee were
very pleased with themselves. They were dear little chaps--the pigs, I mean--very small, of
course, but that gave me the opening for what was undoubtedly the most successful sally of
the afternoon. Someone said they weighed five pounds apiece. "One pound per pound," I remarked.

A week later the Doctor called for my second instalment. "Pig going strong," he chattered gaily
while I wrote out the cheque; "best of a good litter--bust its pink ribbon yesterday; twice
the weight it was when it came."

It was on the tip of my tongue to repeat my witticism, which was still true, but I refrained.

I paid the first dozen five-pound instalments without comment. Up till then I had been fully
occupied in studying how FOCH was getting on with the other sort of pig over there. But now
I began to think.

I was thinking heavily when I put on my hat, but when I reached the premises of the Patriot
Pigs I was thinking things that I prefer not to talk about. To begin with, they were housing
the poor little beasts in a place you wouldn't dream of inflicting on the poorest labourer.
And the overcrowding! And the dirt! And the pigs themselves! They were positively uncanny.
There was something almost human about them. They were all heads and no bodies. It was just
as though the other half of the wits of the half-witted boy who looked after them had distributed
itself among the whole herd. I could have wept when I thought how my purse and my swill-tub
had been emptied to keep such puny monstrosities in the land of the living.

I had my pig taken out and weighed. He turned the scale at forty-eight pounds.

A week later I went and weighed him again; he had shrunk to forty.

I am a man of action. In a flash my mind was made up. I put him on a string and led him home.

My wife seemed rather surprised when we entered the drawing-room, but I hastened to explain.

"I paid five pounds," I said, "for a five-pound pig. Since then I 've paid fifty-five pounds
more, and I have been led to expect, that at the very least the pig was keeping pace. But it
isn't. The sterling is increasing by leaps and bounds; the avoirdupois is not even stationary.
That's not counting several tons of swill that ought to be inside him but aren't. It can't
go on." I paused and added darkly, "That pig shall not return."

"But surely you're not going to have him live with us, Henry?"

I controlled myself.

"No, Maria," I said, "I am not. At a late hour to-night we will take him out into the country
and lose him."

"Oh, Henry," she began, "supposing--"

I interrupted gently but firmly.

"My mind," said I, "like BERT COOTE'S, is made up. He is my pig and I may do what I like with
him. There is no law against one losing one's pig. Besides, he is ruining me."

At 10 P.M. we set out en famille. It was July. I remember the date rather particularly because
it was just then that they ceased to ration bacon altogether. At 10.30 the pig was safely lost.
At 11 the front-door closed upon us. At 11.1 little Willy Perkins, the butcher's son, arrived
with the pig and claimed something for restoring lost property.

A man with a position to keep up simply can't afford to be caught in the act of feloniously
making away with pigs in war-time; besides DORA was still alive and she might have something
to say; so I had to pretend how pleased I was, and I gave the scamp half-a-crown.

Now I know Perkins and Son well enough to realise that if the animal had been worth more than
half-a-crown they would have allowed me to lose my pig free of charge. So I made another resolution.
It was pretty drastic, but in a crisis like this severe measures are often the best. In short,
it was murder I contemplated--nothing less.

I went to work carefully. I let four months slip by to allay any possible suspicion. I paid
my weekly cheque without being asked; without a murmur I parted daily with my swill; in fact
I comported myself as though the unholy plot maturing in my breast was nonexistent.

At length the night arrived. I took down my long magazine Lee Enfield and my cartridge (I am
not a Volunteer for nothing) and crept to the Patriot Pig H.Q.

The once-crowded sty lay dark and still. I entered and switched on my torch: it shone on the
loathsome features that I knew so well. He was all alone, so there could be no mistake. His
head was as large as ever, but his body seemed scarcely visible. I weighed him; he registered
fourteen pounds.:

I will not harrow you, my reader, with details. Suffice it to say my nerve was sure, my eye
true and my hand steady. I killed that pig with a single shot and went home to bed.

The Doctor arrived next morning while I was shaving. He was white with rage. He said:

"What the deuce do you mean by killing my pig?"

"Your pig ?" I smiled. "No, my Pig!"

"Stuff and nonsense!" he spluttered. "Your pig died four months ago--caught cold last July
through being out so late at night and died next day."

That roused me. "Do you mean to tell me," I asked coldly, "that I've been paying five pounds
a week for the last four months for a dead pig?"

"Very kind of you, I'm sure," replied the Doctor, "but no one asked you to, you know."

Adding together all my expenses--the weekly subscription for my pig; a similar sum paid to
the Doctor for his; the value of my swill; the fine imposed (by DORA) for improper use of firearms;
ditto (by the Magistrate) for shooting game without a licence; alleged damage to the P.P. premises
and the remaining wits of their custodian; and finally, the bill from Mr. Perkins for a pound
of pork purchased in July, and the account from Dr. Jones for professional attendance subsequent
to consumption of same--adding all these together I find that from first to last I disbursed
£385 5s. 5-1/2d. on the patriot.

With pork at two shillings a pound my outlay should have produced a pig that weighed 1 ton
14-1/2 cwt. Truly that would have been a very Hindenburg of a pig. It was almost worth trying.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR EUPHEMISTS.

    "General Servant wanted, by middle of February; no small
    family."--Oxford Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE SPEAKER ON HIS RE-ELECTION.

  Good Mr. SPEAKER, in this troublous time,
  When it is hard to string a cheerful rhyme,
  Your genial influence unshaken bides
  Amid the flux of shifting sands and tides;
  And, re-electing you by acclamation,
  The Parliament has acted for the nation,
  Which, while acknowledging the Members' nous,
  Congratulates not you, Sir, but the House.

  'Tis fourteen years since you were called to bear
  The heavy burdens of your "perilous Chair"--
  What years, what burdens! Yet your steadfast mien
  Has never failed to dominate the scene.
  Others have found the post a giant's robe
  Or lacked the needful patience of a Job;
  But you, by dint of fearless common sense,
  Have won and held all Parties' confidence;
  Firm as the rock and as the crystal clear,
  When need arises righteously austere,
  Ready, not eager, your advice to lend,
  And not afraid in season to unbend.

  Thus, tested by a strain that very few,
  If any, of your predecessors knew,
  You come at last, among the lesser fry,
  To loom so largely in the public eye,
  That, we regard you, greatest of your clan,
  More as an institution than a man.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REST-CURE.

    "Will young officer requiring rest help farmer catch rabbits for a
    month?"--Church Family Newspaper.

THE RETURN.

It was at tea last Sunday that we met for the first time for three-and-a-half years. He was
sadly altered. To the casual observer he may still appear his own attractive self; the change
in him is deeper.

He isn't what he was, but none the less it is wonderfully delightful to have him among us again.
A girl at the next table noticed him and spoke smilingly to her companion. But I--I sat and
looked at him and never said a word.

Before the War I was fond of him, but I doubt if I could ever have realised how much I should
miss him; and nothing has brought home to me so surely the astounding fact that at last it
is over as his return.

Sitting opposite to him here brought back the jolly memories of other teas in that distant
pre-war life of ours--memories of bright faces, gentle clatter of cups, charm of soft clothes,
strange forgotten sense of comforts, and one particular smile; and, throwing off from me the
gathering gloom of the war-weary, I dug my fork joyously into his brown bosom and raised the
chocolate éclair to my lips.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "By placing a lemon in the oven for a few minutes nearly the
    entire pulp turns to juice. When next you want orange-juice try
    this."--Glasgow Citizen.

But why not use an orange?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "As a woman married to an Army officer for nineteen years I do not
    consider that I could possibly, on less than our present income,
    provide my children and husband with the necessary education and
    comfort."--Letter in Daily Paper.

Some husbands take a lot of educating.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAN WHO STAYED AT HOME

(A SOLILOQUY AFTER A DAY'S WORK AT THE MINISTRY OF FOOD).

    [Sir JOHN FIELD BEALE, formerly First Secretary of the Ministry of
    Food, has been in consultation with the Supreme Council for Supply
    and Relief in Paris. Sir WILLIAM BEVERIDGE has just returned from
    a mission of inquiry into the food situation in Austria.]

    Let others speed to far Sequanian shores
    To end the War that was to end all wars,
    Where peace-pursuing Discord loud debates
    And all hotels are packed with Delegates;
    Where pundits in the Parliament of Man
    Discuss or Georgian or Wilsonian Plan;
    Where fickle Fate dispenses weal or woe
    Respectively assigned to friend and foe;
    Where Cornucopia meekly comes to heel
    Under instructions from Sir JOHN FIELD BEALE.

    Let others in Icarian feats engage
    With the ingenious aid of HANDLEY PAGE;
    Haste to discover all that may be known
    About the situation in Cologne;
    Or, like Sir WILLIAM BEVERIDGE, to appease
    The clamourings of esurient Viennese--
    In none of these things Fortune waits for me,
    Nor Knighthood cheap, nor unctuous O.B.E.
    Ah, not for me to note with facile pen
    Successive stages of the L. of N.
    With calorimetric and statistic arts
    Administer the prog of Foreign Parts,
    Or, eager not to do the thing by halves,
    To reconcile the Czechs and Jugo-Slavs--
    I will, resigning honours, kudos, pelf,
    Administer hot cocoa to myself;
    Then to repose; for it is truly said
    The best location of mankind is BED.

       *       *       *       *       *

EMANCIPATION.

    "Wanted by respectable woman, a couple of Gentleman's Trousers
    (left off)."--Irish Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A Caproni machine flew a distance of 325 miles in four
    fours."--Scottish Paper.

A correspondent writes to ask if this is double the time usually described as "two two's."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "At 11 o'clock the muster roll at many shops and offices was still
    incomplete. Indeed assistants were reported 'missing' at many
    establishments an hour later. There were girls--Government and
    others--who stayed at home."--Evening Paper.

Little pigs who wouldn't go to market.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "At Bolton on Saturday the United Textile Factory Workers'
    Association decided to put forward a demand for a 4-hours week,
    with the same rate of pay as for 55-1/2 hours."--Provincial
    Paper.

We trust this is a misprint and not an "intelligent anticipation" of what we are coming to.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The teachers of ---- are not satisfied with the scale of salary
    fixed by the Education Committee, and yesterday morning a
    deputation waited upon the Special Salaries Committee to state
    their case. The Education Committee decided to increase the salary
    of the borough Director of Education from £450 to £500."

    Provincial Paper.

And if that don't satisfy 'em--Bolshevism, my dear Sir, Bolshevism!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *
  OLD HEN-PECK.

  Captain Edwin Peck, E.N.,
  Had the habits of a hen.
  Edwin's nose was like a bone,
  And his teeth were not his own;
  Neither, I regret to tell,
  Did they fit him very well.
  It was not his fault, no doubt,
  That they tried to tumble out,
  And in fact he seldom dropped them,
  For he almost always copped them
  Just as they became unstuck
  By ejaculating, "Cluck."

  Yoked to this elusive plate,
  Did our Edwin curse his fate?
  No, he was content to live,
  For he was inquisitive.
  If he saw a speck of grit
  He must needs examine it,
  Not as any other might,
  Standing at his proper height,
  But with body slightly slanted
  And his head obliquely canted,
  While with small unblinking eye
  He surveyed it wickedly.

  One fine Sunday Captain Peek
  Stalked along the lower deck,
  Pausing now and then to stare,
  Poking here and scratching there,

  Like a pullet in her prime
  Clucking softly all the time.
  Presently the Captain spied
  One small scuttle open wide.
  "Cluck!" he said, and likewise. "Tut!

  "Every scuttle should be shut;"
  And with a malignant snort
  Poked his head out through the port.

  That was easy, but, alack!
  When he tried to get it back
  There was heard an angry cluck--
  Captain Edwin Peck was stuck!

  Strange at first as it appears,
  He had overlooked his ears;
  But it's not so queer, perhaps,
  When you ask, "Have hens got flaps?"

  Silence! You'd have heard a pin
  Fall upon the deck within,
  Till the Bloke was heard to shout,
  "Stick it, Sir! We'll get you out!"

  Everybody had a go--
  Chief, Commander, P.M.O.,
  Padre, Carpenter and Stoker,
  Using engine-grease and poker,
  Hawser, marlin-spike and soap,
  Till at length they gave up hope,
  For, in spite of all they did,
  Edwin fitted like a lid.

  Suddenly upon the scene
  Came a German submarine.
  Then a flash, a roar, a groan;
  "We are sinking like a stone!"
  Cried the Bloke with angry frown;
  "Can we leave poor Peck to drown?
  Really, this is too absurd;"
  Then a miracle occurred.

  As the cold green waters roll
  Round poor Edwin in his hole,
  Are the watchers wrong in thinking
  That the Captain's neck is shrinking?
  As she took her final list on,
  Sighing, "üdor mén äriston!"
  Long-enduring Captain Peck
  Gracefully withdrew his neck,
  Poked it out again and spoke
  To the sorrow-stricken Bloke:
  "Nothing more that we can do?
  No? Then sound the 'Sove kee poo!'"

  Need I tell how Captain Peck
  Was the last to leave the wreck,
  How the good ship perished, or
  How he brought them safe to shore,
  Landing, after all his men,
  Clucking softly like a hen?

       *       *       *       *       *

Up-to date quotation for foot-sore Londoners: "Et Tube, brute!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUD LARKS.

One reads a lot nowadays about the "slavery" of various habits (drug, drink, bigamy, etc.)
and loud is the outcry. But there is yet another bondage, just as binding and far more widespread,
which nobody ever seems to mention, namely, the drill habit. Drill the young soldier up in
the way he should go and for ever after his body will spring to the word of command, whether
his soul approves or no.

Once upon a time two men turned up in a railway construction camp deep in the Rhodesian bush.
They were a silent, furtive, friendless pair, dwelling apart, and nobody could discover whence
they came, whither they were bound, or, in fact, anything about them. It was generally conceded
that they had some horrid secret to bury (camp optimists voted for "murder") and left it at
that. Time went by and so did the rail-head, leaving the two mysteries behind as permanent-way
gangers. Solitude seemed to suit them. Years passed along and still the two remained in that
abomination of desolation guarding their stretch of track and their horrid secret. Then one
day ROBERTS rolled by on his way to Victoria Falls, and, his train halting to tank-up, the
old Field-Marshal stepped ashore and called to the two gangers, who happened to be close at
hand tinkering at their trolley. The guard, who was taking a bottle of Bass with the steward
on the platform of the diner, suddenly jabbed his friend in the brisket.

"Look, for the love of Mike!" he giggled.

The two gangers were standing talking to "BOBS," shoulder to shoulder, heels together, feet
spread at an angle of forty-five degrees, knees braced, thumbs behind the seams of their trousers,
backs hollowed, heads erect--in short in the correct position of attention as decreed in the
Book of Infantry Training. The old man finished speaking and the two saluted smartly and broke
away. The steward looked at his friend and nodded, "Old soldiers."

"Old deserters, you mean," retorted the guard. "Now we know."

The drill habit had been too strong for those two fugitives even after ten years.

The other night our Babe, as Orderly Officer, sat up alone in the Mess, consuming other people's
cigarettes and whisky until midnight, then, being knocked up by the Orderly Sergeant, gave
the worthy fellow a tot to restore circulation, pulled on his gum-boots and sallied forth on
the rounds. By 12.45 he had assured himself that the line guards were functioning in the prescribed
"brisk and soldierly manner," and that the horses were all properly tucked up in bed, and so
turned for home.

He paused at the cross-roads to hear the end of the Sergeant's reminiscences of happy days
when he, the Sergeant, (then full-private, full in more senses than one) had held the responsible
position of beer-taster to a regiment at Jaipurbad ("an ideal drinkin' climate, Sir"), then,
dismissing the old connoisseur, continued on his way bedward.

It must have been one o'clock by then, a black wind-noisy night. As the Babe turned into the
home straight, he saw a light flash for an instant in a big cart-shed opposite the Mess--just
a flicker as of a match scratched and instantly extinguished.

This struck him as curious; it was no weather or hour for decent folk to be abroad. The Babe
then remembered that the mess-cart was in the shed, and it occurred to him that somebody might
be monkeying with the harness. He thereupon marched straight for the shed (treading quite noiselessly
in his gum-boots) and, pulling out his electric torch, flashed it, not on some cringing Picard
peasant, as he had expected, but on three unshorn, unwashed, villainous, whopping big Bosch
infantrymen! It would be difficult to say who was the most staggered for the moment, the Huns
blinking in the sudden glare of the torch or the Babe well aware that he was up against a trio
of escaped and probably quite desperate prisoners of war. "Victory," says M. HILAIRE BELLOC
(or was it NAPOLEON? I am always getting them mixed) "is to him who can bring the greatest
force to bear on a given position." That is as may be, but, after personal participation in
one or two of the major disputes in the late lamented war, I put it this way. Two opposing
factions bump, utter chaos reigns supreme and the side which recovers first wins. In this case
the Babe was the first to recover. A year before the War he found himself in a seminary in
the suburbs of Berlin, learning to cough his vowels, roll his r's and utter German phonetically.
Potsdam was near at hand, and many a pleasant hour did the Babe spend on a bench outside the
old Stadt Palast, watching young recruits of the Prussian Guard having their souls painfully
extracted from them by Feldwebels of great muzzle velocity and booting force. The sight of
those three Hun uniforms standing before him must have pricked a memory, which in turn set
some sub-conscious mechanism to work, for suddenly the Babe heard a voice bawling orders in
German. It was fully five seconds, he swears, before he recognised it as his own. "Attention!"
snarled the voice in proper Potsdammer style. "Quick march! Right wheel!" The three great hooligans
trembled all over, clicked their heels and stepped off the mark as punctiliously as though
on the Tempelhofer Feld at the Spring Parade.

In two minutes the Babe, snarling like a Zoo tiger at dinner-time, had manoeuvred them across
a hundred yards of bog and filed them, goose-stepping, into a Nissen Hut full of sleeping Atkinses.
The Atkinses rolled, gaping, off their beds at the Babe's first shout, and the game was up.

Ten minutes later the Bosch gentlemen were en route for the main guard under strong, if déshabillé,
escort.

It turned out that one of them spoke English quite badly and on reaching the Guard Room he
opened out.

They had escaped from a prison camp at Abbeville, he said, and were heading for Holland, travelling
by night.

Passing the farm at about midnight they espied our hooded mess-cart and, feeling tired and
footsore, had conceived the bright idea of stealing a horse to fit the cart and driving to
Holland in style and comfort. Just as they were getting things shipshape along came the Babe
and clapped the lid on--"verfluchte kleine Teufel!"

When the Main Guard lads inquired how it was that after all their trouble they had allowed
one lone unarmed infant to corral the three of them, instead of quietly biffing him on the
head, as they quite easily might have done, the Huns were very confused. At one moment they
were in the shed, they said, fascinated like moths in the glare of the torch, and the next
thing they knew they were in the midst of a horde of underclothed Tommies--trapped. As to what
had happened in the interval, or how they had been spirited from one place to the other, they
were not in the least clear--couldn't explain it at all.

The Drill Habit again.

PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARMISTICE-TIME ECONOMY.

    "The Consecrating Officers were elected Honorary Members of the
    Lodge and were presented with a souvenir in the form of a solid
    silver cigar ash-tray, made from the lead used in the production
    of shrapnel bullets."

    Freemason's Chronicle.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Several persons dropped to the pavement, several dripping with
    blood. One man had his head partially opened, and he lay writing
    on the ground."--Provincial Paper.

If the poor fellow was, as we presume, a reporter, we cannot too much applaud his devotion to duty.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BET.

The Colonel was, as usual, laying down the law.

"Economy!" he said with a snort; "economy's dead. No one cares about saving money any more.
No one cares about the value of money. We are asked excessive prices and we pay them. We eat,
drink and are merry--or approximately so--and be hanged to you! With the exception of the halfpenny
stamp we put on circulars I can think of nothing that has not gone up or, in other words, lost
buying power. I defy anyone to name a thing that hasn't."

He glowered fiercely and challengingly around.

"I repeat," he said, "that the purchasing power of money is not what it was in any respect.
The other day, for instance, I bought a new hat. I used to pay a guinea; it is now thirty-two
and six. And a worse hat probably. What do you think I was charged for soling and heeling shoes?
One pound ten! And worse leather. That's partly what I mean by the loss of purchasing power;
where the price may in some extraordinary way remain the same, the quality of the article paid
for is inferior. There's a steady deterioration. Can anyone name a case where I am wrong?"

His red eyes again defied us.

"Yes, I can," said a meek voice.

The Colonel subjected the speaker to a long and ferocious scrutiny.

"You can'?" he said at last.

"Yes," replied the meek voice. "Will you bet on it?"

"Bet on it? Most certainly I will," said the Colonel, who has done fairly well in wagers in
his time. "How much?"

"What you like," replied the meek voice.

"Very well," said the Colonel, "make it a tenner."

"With pleasure," was the rejoinder. "The bet is that I can't name a single thing which has
not either increased in price or decreased in quality since the War?"

"Yes," said the Colonel.

We all sat up and waited, as though for the maroons in the old, old days.

"Well," said the meek voice, "the cost of pulling a communication cord is I still five pounds,
and you can have just as good a pull as ever."

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE SAFE SIDE.

  "Why, what's this, Ben, they're telling me?--
  Eighty and going to get a wife!
  Gaffer, I thought you'd surely be
  A snug old bachelor for life."

  "Well, Sur, ye see I allus meant
  To take ole Martha some fine day;
  But 'wed in haste and then repent'
  I heer'd as many folks did say.

  "But now, thinks I, there's sure no fear
  Through too much haste o' goin' wrong;

  "An', anyways, at eighty year
  I can't repent fur wery long."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREATEST PATRIOT OF ALL: A public servant who did not strike during the War--Big Ben.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE APPOINTMENT.

  They tell me there is work for most,
      However tired they be,
  That there are Offices engrossed
  In finding me a well-paid post
      Of suitable degree;
  That there are businesses that itch
  To make the young lieutenant rich,
  Yet I have not discovered which
      Is itching after me.

  And this is strange; for I could shine
      In any place you please,
  Although, if there is any line
  Which is most obviously mine,
      It is the man of ease--
  The man whose intellect is such
  He never has to labour much,
  But does the literary touch
      In comfort at "The Leas."

  Or I could be a splendid Squire
      And watch the harvest grow,
  Could urge the reaper to perspire
  And put the cattle in the byre
      (If that is where they go),
  And every morning do the rounds
  Of my immense ancestral grounds
  With six or seven faithful hounds,
      And say, "It looks like snow."

  And there are moments when I feel
      The diplomatic call;
  No trickery would long conceal
  The state of things at Bubazeel
      When I was at the Ball,
  To spy across the "brilliant floors"
  On daughters of Ambassadors,
  And "obviate" impending wars
      By dancing with them all.

  A bishopric I can't afford,
      Though I could give it tone,
  And often when the people snored
  I've felt they would not be so bored
      By sermons of my own;
  But if the Secretaries cry
  For secretaries--here am I;
  Or nobly would I occupy
      The taxi-driver's throne.

  For I should beam across the street
      When people waved at me,
  And say, "My petrol's incomplete,
  I haven't had my bit of meat
      Nor yet my bit of tea,
  But just because I like your face
  I'll take you out to any place
  However distant from my base--
      And ask no extra fee."

  And yet I doubt could England bear
      To see my rest destroyed?
  A soul so delicate and fair
  Should simply saunter through the air
      And cultivate the void;
  One would not readily degrade
  One's loveliness in any trade,
  Only, of course, one must be paid
      For being unemployed.

A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SMITH MINOR PROFFERS A REQUEST.

(An authentic document.)

Will you please send me a fountain pen because nearly every boy but me has a fountain pen and
I should so like to have one because I often want to write something outside and I carn't and
then when I come in I don't no what it is and I miss something out of my letter then when I
have writen my letter I remember what it was and genulry I remember it in lesons and when I
begin to write my next letter I have for goten it and it goes on like that till at last I remember
it and then some times I don't rember it all and that is why I want a fontin pen.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

