In some details of chuck turning the tool operations already learned can be employed, but for
the most part they are entirely different. In order to preserve the educational value of the
work as brought out by skill and dexterity in handling tools, it will be necessary to use the
cutting method wherever possible. In some instances that method will be impossible, and the
scraping method must be used.

METHODS OF FASTENING STOCK

All the work thus far has been on models where the stock worked upon is held between the live
and dead centers. In face-plate and chuck turning the work is done at the head stock only and
the piece is supported by means of a face-plate, or chuck, that is fastened to a face-plate,
which is screwed onto the end of the live spindle. There are three methods of fastening stock
to the face-plate, and it depends upon the nature of the exercise or model to be made which
method is used.

1. SMALL SINGLE SCREW FACE-PLATE. For all work that does not require deep cutting in the center,
such as in towel rings, picture frames, etc., the small face-plate with a single screw should
be used.

Note:--Should it be found difficult to keep the block from working loose and turning, it is
a good plan to fold a piece of sandpaper, grit side out, and place it between the face-plate
and the stock.

2. LARGE SURFACE SCREW FACE-PLATE. For all work that does not require deep cutting on the outside,
such as exercises, jewel boxes, etc., as well as all large stock, and all stock from which
chucks are to be made, the large face-plate with the surface screws should be used.

3. GLUING TO WASTE STOCK. A block of scrap wood is fastened to a face-plate the same as for
a chuck and surfaced off square. The block from which the model is to be made is planed square
on one side and glued to the block on the face-plate with a sheet of paper between the two.
To separate the model from the chuck, after it is completed, place a chisel on the waste stock,
1/16" back of the glue joint at such a point as will bring the chisel parallel to the grain
of the model, and strike lightly with a mallet. This will cause the paper to separate and the
model to become free.

This method will be found very convenient epecially on models where the base is to be left
straight. It will also be found to save much stock when working with expensive woods.

LATHE ADJUSTMENTS

To get the best results in face-plate or chuck turning there should be no end play in the spindle
of the lathe. The spindle should always be tested out, and if any play is found, should be
adjusted before attempting any work. It is almost impossible to make a true cut when such a
condition obtains.

POSITION OF TOOL REST

For all face-plate and chuck turning the tool rest should be kept as close to the stock as
possible, the same as in spindle turning, regardless of the angle it may be set. Vertically,
the rest in most cases should be sufficiently below the center of the stock to bring the center
or cutting point of the tools used, when held parallel to the bed of the lathe, even with the
center of the stock. This last condition will necessitate adjusting the height occasionally
when changing from large to small tools.

CHAPTER X

TOOL PROCESSES IN FACE-PLATE AND CHUCK TURNING

B-I--1-a. Straight Cuts

1. ROUGHING OFF CORNERS. (3/4" GOUGE.) FIG. 14. The tool rest is set crosswise to the bed of
the lathe and parallel to the face of the stock.

Place the gouge on the rest with the handle well down. Roll the gouge to the left until the
grind which forms the cutting edge is perpendicular to the stock. The point of contact should
be slightly below the center or nose of the tool.

The handle of the gouge is then swung well to the back of the lathe or to the operator's right.
The gouge is then pushed forward into the stock and to the left, making a shearing cut. The
cut should not be too heavy. The starting point for this cut should be a line which will indicate
the largest diameter or circle that can be made from the block.--This cut should be repeated
until the corners are removed from the block.

To complete the cutting of thick stock it will be found necessary to change the tool rest to
an angle of 45° with the bed of the lathe.

When hardwood is being turned it is sometimes advisable to saw the block almost round with
a compass saw or bandsaw, if one is to be had. Should this be done the preceding steps are omitted.

The tool rest is then placed parallel with the lathe bed and a roughing cut is taken with the
gouge the entire thickness of the block.

The lathe should be run on second or third speed until the corners are removed, and then changed
to first speed.

2. CALIPERING FOR DIAMETER. The true diameter is then calipered the same as in spindle work.

3. SMOOTHING CUT. A smoothing cut is taken with a skew chisel the same as in spindle work.

4. ROUGHING CUT ON THE FACE. (3/4" GOUGE.) FIG. 15. The rest is now placed parallel to the
bed of the lathe and slightly above the center of the spindle. Place the gouge on the rest
on its edge with the grind toward the stock and parallel to the face to be surfaced. The nose
of the gouge is the cutting point.

The handle is then raised and the cutting point is forced toward the center. A very thin shaving
should be taken. If the gouge is allowed to roll back so the grind above the cutting point
comes in contact with the wood it is sure to catch and gash the wood.

5. SMOOTHING THE FACE. (SMALL SKEW CHISEL.) FIG. 16. For all work up to 3" in diameter, the
surface may be smoothed by using a small skew chisel in the same manner as in squaring the
ends of Stock in cylinder work. (Step 6--Exercise A-I--1-a, Straight Cuts.)

For larger work, place the chisel flat on the rest with the toe next to the stock and the back
edge of the chisel parallel to the face to be surfaced.

The point of the chisel is then forced toward the center of the stock, using the straight back
of the tool as a guide against the finished surface. Only a very thin cut should be taken at
a time.

Note:--While this operation may be termed a scraping cut, it will be found to be much easier
on the tool than if the cutting edge were held flat against the work as in other scraping cuts.

The surface of the work should be tested for squareness by holding the edge of the chisel or
a straight edge across the face.

LAYING OFF MEASUREMENTS

In laying off measurements on the face of the stock a pencil compass or dividers should be
used. Set the compass or dividers to one-half the diameter of the circle wanted. While one
point is held at the exact center of the stock, which is easily located while the stock is
revolving, the other is brought in contact with the revolving stock until a circle of the correct
diameter is marked.

Should the center of the stock be cut away, rendering this method impossible, the following
method may be used: Set the compass or dividers to the exact diameter wanted. Place one point
in contact with the stock a little to one side of the required line on the part that is to
be cut-away. Bring the other point to the stock and see if it touches the line first made.
If not, move the first point until the two points track in the same line.

The rest should be set at the exact center for measuring.

All measurements on the edge of the stock can be made with pencil and rule as in cylinder turning.

B-I--2-a. Shoulder Cuts

1. EXTERNAL SHOULDERS. FIG. 18. The surplus stock at each successive shoulder is roughed out
with a 3/4" gouge, keeping well outside the finished measurements. The gouge for this work
is held in the same position as described in B-I--1-a, Step 1, for Roughing Off Corners.

2. For the finishing cut a small skew chisel is used, and the process is the same as that used
in squaring ends of stock. Both the vertical and horizontal shoulders can be handled easily
by this method. Fig, 19.

3. INTERNAL SHOULDERS. For internal shoulder cutting the same methods may be used for roughing
out and cutting the horizontal shoulders, but for the vertical or base shoulder it will be
necessary to use the scraping process. (See "Use of Scraping Tools.")

B-I--3-a. Taper Cuts

Taper cutting will not be found hard as the gouge and skew chisel are used in the same manner
as described in B-I--1-a, Steps 4 and 5. After the stock has been roughed away with the gouge
to the approximate angle desired, a smoothing cut is taken with the skew. Care should be taken
that the skew chisel is held at the exact angle of the taper desired.

B-I--4-a. V Cuts

V cutting will also be found easy as the tool process is exactly the same as that used in spindle
turning. Exercise A-I--4-a. Fig. 20.

B-I--5-a. Concave Cuts

Place the 3/4" gouge on the rest with the handle parallel to the bed of the lathe. Roll the
gouge on its edge and swing the handle so that the grind is perpendicular to the stock with
the nose of the tool as the cutting point.

Force the gouge forward into the wood. As soon as the cut is started, the handle is lowered
and swung to the left; (if cutting the left side of the concave) at the same time the tool
is rolled back toward its original position. This movement brings the cutting point farther
down on the lip and the grind, resting on the side of the cut, will force the gouge sidewise
and will form one-quarter of the circle. Fig. 21.

This cut is continued from alternate side until the concave is nearly to size. The cut should
be tested with a templet before the finishing cut is taken.

B-I--6-a. Convex Cuts

Rough out the stock between the beads with a parting tool.

Hold the edge of the gouge on the rest with the handle, parallel to the bed of the lathe, to
make the nose the cutting point.

Swing the handle to the left so that the grind will form a tangent to the bead at its highest
point.

The gouge is then forced into the stock and to the right; at the same time the handle is swung
to the right; keeping the grind tangent to the bead at the point of contact. Fig. 22. This
cut is continued until the base of the bead is reached.

B-I--7-a. Combination Cuts

As in spindle turning, a combination exercise should be given at this point to provide an opportunity
for studying out the best methods of working the various cuts just described into a finished
product.

USE OF SCRAPING TOOLS

When scraping is to be employed, it should be done with only those tools that are made for
that purpose, i.e., Square Nose, Round Nose, Spear Point, Right and Left Skew. The handling
of these tools will be found easy. The only point to remember is that they should be held flat
on the tool rest and parallel to the bed of the lathe when in use.

In general practice the ordinary skew chisel should not be used as a scraping tool, for the
cutting edge is not sharpened to withstand the heavy strain required by such work. Should it
be necessary, however, to use a skew chisel as a scraper, the tool should be held so that the
top grind is parallel to the bed of the lathe while in use.

INTERNAL BORING

In roughing out the center for Napkin Rings, Jewel Boxes, etc., the quickest method is to work
it out with a small gouge.

Place the gouge on the rest parallel to the bed of the lathe, having the point even with the
center of the stock.

Force the gouge into the wood until a hole is bored to the depth required. If the hole is deeper
than 1", remove the tool often and clear out the shavings in order not to burn the point.

In order to enlarge the hole to the proper size the point of the gouge is pressed against the
left side of the hole a little above the center and a shearing cut is taken. To obviate the
danger of the tool catching, all cuts should start from the back of the hole and proceed toward
the front.

B-III--8-a. Sphere

After the sphere is turned as nearly perfect as is possible when working between centers (Steps
1 to 4) it is cut free from the waste stock and is centered in a chuck.

The chuck is made of any soft wood and should be cut in the end grain, which will insure equal
pressure on all sides. Equal pressure cannot be obtained if the Chuck is cut in cross grain
wood, owing to the tendency of side grain to give more than the end grain. The sphere should
be forced into the chuck with slightly over half protruding. Very thin cuts should be taken
and the sphere should be revolved one-quarter turn after each until true. As the sphere becomes
smaller during the cutting, it will be necessary to cut the face of the chuck down and bore
the hole deeper and smaller in order to keep more than half of it protruding at all times.

To remove the sphere tap the chuck lightly with a hammer just above it, at the same time pull
out on the sphere.

CHAPTER XI

SPIRAL TURNING

Spiral turning is a subject that has received very little attention by most schools in which
wood turning is taught. Spiral work is seen in antique furniture and also in the modern furniture
of the present day. It seems that it takes the wheel of fashion about a century to make a complete
turn, for what our forefathers neglected and destroyed the people of the present day value
and cherish.

Spiral work gives excellent practice in shaping and modelling wood. It brings into play the
principle of the helix as used in cutting threads, etc.; and its form, size and shape may be
varied according to the taste of the individual. As in threads so in spiral work we have single
and double spirals, and their form and proportion depend upon their use and application in
furniture making. A variation of the spiral may be made in several ways: First, by changing
the number of turns of the spiral on a straight shaft; second, by running a spiral on a tapered
shaft; third, by changing the shape or form of the spiral itself; and fourth, by making more
than one spiral on a shaft. It is uncommon to see ten or twelve spirals running around a single
shaft.

Some of the forms of the above types are fully taken up and explained in the work that is to
follow.

PLATES B-V--1-a, a´. SINGLE SPIRAL. STRAIGHT SHAFT

To work out a single spiral for a pedestal proceed as follows:

1. Turn a cylinder 2-1/4" in diameter. Make the ends slightly larger in order that the design
may be turned on each, after the spiral has been worked out.

2. Lay off spaces 2-1/16" apart on the cylinder while the spindle is turning in the lathe and
divide each of these into four equal parts. Each one of these large spaces represents one turn
of the spiral. A good proportion is slightly less than the diameter of the cylinder; thus the
diameter of the cylinder equals 2-1/4" and the width of the space 2-1/16".

3. On the cylinder parallel to the axis draw lines A-A B-B C-C D-D. These lines should be 90°
apart as shown in the top diagram (Plate B-V--1-a´). Line D-D is on the other side of the cylinder
as shown in the top and middle diagrams.

4. Start on line A-A at point X, circle 1, and draw a line connecting it with line B-B on circle
1´. Then connect B-B on circle 1´ with C-C on circle 2 and so on until a spiral has been drawn
the entire length of the cylinder. This line will form the ridge of the spiral as shown in
the middle diagram.

