I am approaching a feudal fortress. The deep moat, the turreted walls, the old gray towers,
the lattice of my lady's bower, the sentry pacing the battlements, the warder stationed at
the gate, the severe exterior of the grim pile, the smoking hospitality that reigns within,--I
recognize them all. Much that I have taken on faith from my childhood has already been realized
since I touched English shores,--why not this? I climb the steep slope leading to the principal
entrance, and knock at the gate. Hark! is not that the sound of an answering horn? Is not that
distant rattling the clash of armor on the stones? Do I not hear the voice of the stout baron
mustering his retainers to bid me welcome? If so, they are a long time about it,--for I have
knocked once, twice, three times, and there is no admittance. It is a severe process, too;
for, though the original gate, which may have been an iron portcullis for aught I know, has
given place to rough boards, the latter are not particularly tender of my knuckles, and, though
romance is romance, pain is a fact. So I fold my airy wings for the present, and look about
me for a big stone to pound with. It is of no use. The old castle is deaf and dumb. It neither
hears nor answers. I creep along the edge of a steep bank, pry round a corner of the building,
gaze up at the high Gothic windows, but see nothing like a practicable approach, and turn back,
discouraged. We take counsel together, I and my party, and at length condescend to the belief
that our best hope of obtaining an entrance lies in a modern farm-house, at the foot of the
eminence on which the fortress stands. The farm-house is beyond the hail of our voices, but
our coachman, who is stationed there with his post-chaise, a witness of our embarrassment,
makes an encouraging sign. That the farm-house bears some relation to the manor-house is suggested
also by the fact that its garden boasts a yew-tree cut into the form of a peacock, and the
book of heraldry says that the crest of the noble Earls of Rutland, who occupied the hall for
centuries, includes, among its other belongings, "a peacock, in pride, proper."

At last, just as our impatience had reached the verge of indignation, a little figure emerged
from the shadow of the farm-house, and sauntered towards us. She was a pretty child, a true
daughter of the Saxon race, fair-haired, blue-eyed, and sunny-complexioned. She was the pink
of neatness, too, and it was evident that the time we had spent in waiting had been passed
by her at her toilet, for the folds were still fresh in her snowy apron, and her golden hair
glistened smoothly within the bars of a net,--that unfailing net, sure emblem of British female
nationality. Her dainty little hat was trimmed with white ribbons, which streamed behind her
in the breeze, and, altogether, she was as complete a picture as one would wish to see of youth,
health, and self-complacency.

The nonchalance with which she approached us was a thing I have never seen equalled. The independence
of American children is proverbial; but democratic institutions never produced anything more
saucily self-reliant than this little Briton. Without looking at us, or deigning any apology
for the great gate,--which, it seems, is a mere barricade, not made to be opened,--she unlocked
a side-postern, a rude door, consisting of two or three rough boards, and made a motion for
us to enter. As we trod the time-worn pavement of the outer court, and gained an open quadrangle
round which various apartments were grouped, imagination once more took possession of me, and
I found myself peopling the place with its original inmates.

"Oh, how old and story-like!" I exclaimed to my companions. "Can you not imagine knights on
horseback prancing over these stones, and alighting at the great hall-door beyond?"

"Horses never came up here!" was the interruption which my suggestion met from our practical
little guide. "Horses couldn't climb those stairs," she added, somewhat scornfully; and I then
observed that I had unconsciously ascended a rough, angular stairway, passable only to foot-passengers.

Knights on foot, then, my fancy at once substituted; and as the child, now commencing her duties
as show-woman, pointed out the servants' offices, it was no difficult matter to picture the
baron's retainers lazily grouped around the stone walls of the low cells, for such the apartments
were, polishing their master's armor, or bousing over jugs of ale, while handsome pages loitered
about the court-yard, waiting the summons of their lord, or the sound of their lady's silver
whistle. Fancy was an indispensable attendant in making the circuit of the apartments, which
surrounded at least three sides of this outer quadrangle. Without her aid, they were simply
remarkable for their similarity, their vacancy, their unfitness for any modern purpose save
that of sheep-pens or lumber-rooms. Destitute of windows, so that the sun and air found admittance
only through the doorway, without fireplaces, boarded floors, or plastered walls, they presented
simply so many square feet of space walled in by stone and mortar. But Fancy had the power
to enliven, furnish, people them. She suggested that their very number was an indication of
sociability, excitement, noise, and mirth. Here, as in all feudal dwellings, the vast disproportion
between the space allotted to the dependents and that reserved for the lord of the manor pointed
to the time when each castle was a walled city, each baronial hall the home of a crowd of petty
retainers. In that long-ago, what multitudes of voices had stirred the silence of the court-yard!
The bare walls of the apartments then were hung with breast-plate, spear, and cross-bow,--trophies
of war and the chase furnished decorations suited to the taste of the occupants, and the hides
of slaughtered beasts carpeted the cold floor. Stirring tales of love and warfare gathered
little knots of listeners; wandering minstrels sought hospitality, and repaid it in songs and
rhymes; the beef and the bowl went round; my lord's jester made his privileged way into every
circle in turn, and cracked his jokes at everybody's expense; and pretty Bess, my lady's maid,
peeped in at the open door, just in time to join in the laugh against her lover.

But Fancy only whispered, and another little attendant, whose name was Fact, spoke out, and
interrupted her.

"Would you like to see the family-plate?" asked our guide, with the air of one who felt she
had really nothing worth showing, but was bound to fulfil her task; and, entering one of the
stone-walled apartments, she pointed out a few enormous pewter platters, much dimmed by time
and neglect, leaning against the wall.

What visions of Christmas feasts and wassails these relics might have awakened in me, had I
been left to gaze on them undisturbed, it is impossible to say; but my mind was not permitted
to follow its own bent.

"There's nicer ones down at the house, all brightened up," said the child, with simplicity,
and looking disdain at the heirlooms she was displaying.

The estimate put by the little girl upon the comparative value of old pewter dishes was suggestive.
Whether the farm-house had robbed the castle, or the castle the farm-house, became at once
an open question, and romance died in doubt.

There could be no doubt, however, as to the genuineness of the rude old dining-hall to which
we were conducted next. The clumsy oaken table still occupied the raised end of the apartment,
where the baron feasted his principal guests. The carved and panelled gallery whence his minstrels
cheered the banquet still stood firm on its massive pillars, and the great stags'-antlers which
surmounted it told of his skill as a sportsman. What giant logs might once have burned in the
wide fireplaces, what sounds of revelry have gone up to the bare rafters! Our guide's tongue
went glibly as she pointed out these familiar objects, and in the kitchen, buttery, and wine-vault,
which were situated conveniently near to the dining-hall, she seemed equally at home. It was
easy to recognize in the great stone chimneys, with their heavy hooks and cross-bars, symptoms
of banquets for which bullocks were roasted whole and sheep and calves slain by the dozen;
but we needed her practised lips to suggest the uses of the huge stone chopping-blocks, the
deeply sunk troughs, the narrow gutters that crossed the stone pavement, all illustrative of
the primitive days when butcher and cook wrought simultaneously, and this contracted cellar
served at once for slaughter-house and kitchen. Her little airy figure was in strange contrast
with these gloomy passages, these stones that had reeked with blood and smoke. She glided before
us into the mysterious depths of the storehouse and ale-vault, as the new moon glides among
damp, black clouds; as she directed our attention to the oaken cupboards for bread and cheese,
the stone benches that once supported long rows of casks, the little wicket in the doorway,
through which the butler doled out provisions to a waiting crowd of poor, she might well have
been likened to a freshly trimmed lamp, lighting up the dark, mysterious past.

Freshly trimmed she unquestionably was, and by careful hands, but not a voluntary light; for,
the moment her explanations were finished, or our curiosity satisfied, she sank into an indifference
of speech and attitude which proved her distaste to a place and a task utterly foreign to her
nature. Evidently, the hall which we had come so far to see, and were so eager to explore,
was at once the most familiar object of her life and her most utter aversion. She had been
drilled into a mechanical knowledge of its history, but the place itself was to her what an
old grammar or spelling-book is to the unwilling pupil,--a thing to be learned by rote, to
be abused, contemned, escaped from. As we finished our exploration of the lower floor, she
probably breathed a sigh of relief, feeling that the first chapter of her task was concluded.

But a second and more difficult was yet to follow,--for we now ascended a staircase of uncemented
blocks of stone, crossed a passage, and found ourselves in a long gallery or hall, the finest
and best-preserved room in the castle, the state-apartment and ball-room of the lords of the
manor. Our admiration at once broke forth in words of surprise and delight. The architecture
of this room was of much more recent date than that portion of the building which we had already
visited. It was Elizabethan in its style, and one of the finest specimens of the period. It
was floored and wainscoted with oak; its frieze richly carved and adorned with boars' heads,
thistles, and roses; its ceiling, also of oak, beautifully panelled and ornamented. There was
a great square recess in the middle of the gallery, and along one side of it a row of bow-windows,
through whose diamond panes a fine view was afforded of the quaint old garden and balconies
below. Here, doubtless, knights and dames of the olden time had danced, coquetted, quarrelled,
and been reconciled. Within those deep embrasures courtiers in ruffs and plumes had sued for
ladies' favors, and plotted deep intrigues of state. What stories these walls could tell, had
they but tongues to speak! What dreams did their very silence conjure up!

Led by a more erratic spirit than that even of our child-guide, I am afraid I lent an inattentive
ear to her accurate statement of the length, breadth, and height of the gallery in which we
stood, the precise date of its erection, the noble owners of the various coats-of-arms carved
above the doorway; for I remember only that she seemed confident and well-informed, and recited
her lesson faithfully so long as she was suffered to follow the beaten track. How impossible
it was to extract anything beyond that from her we soon had proof.

She ushered us next into my lord's parlor, which nearly adjoined the gallery. This room was
hung with arras, retained a few articles of ancient furniture, had one or two pictures hanging
on its walls, and presented, altogether, a more habitable look than any other portion of the
castle. Our little maid had got on well with her description of this room, had pointed out
the portrait of Prince Arthur, once a resident at the hall, had introduced that of Will Somers,
my lord's jester, as glibly as if Will were a playmate of her own, had deciphered for us the
excellent moral precept carved in old English beneath the royal arms, "Drede God and honour
the King," and was proceeding rapidly with an array of measurements and dates, when I unluckily
interrupted her,--I think it was to ask some question about the tapestry. She looked at me
reproachfully, indignantly,--just as a child reciting the multiplication-table before the School-Committee
would look, if tripped up between the numbers, or as a boy, taken advantage of in play, might
cry, "No fair!" She did not condescend to answer me, perhaps she could not, but paused a moment,
reflected, went deliberately back in her recital, repeated the last few dates and phrases by
way of gaining an impetus, and then went on without faltering to the end of her prescribed
narration.

Poor child! She had my sympathy, and has still. What a grudge she must owe us tourists, even
the tamest and most submissive of us, for whom she is thus compelled to tax her unwilling memory!

But if her spirits were damped, her good-humor threatened, it was for a minute only. Upon completing
our rapid survey of my lord's parlor, and looking round for the guide who should conduct us
farther, she had become invisible. So we moved on without her, and commenced exploring a narrow
passage with a certain sense of bewilderment at its loneliness, and the doubt whither it might
lead, when, suddenly, we were startled by a merry laugh, which seemed to ring through the air
directly above our heads. Was it a mocking spirit that haunted the place? or one of the old
figures on the tapestry, started into life? We looked up, and there, on a rough platform of
pine boards, projecting from the wall, stood our Fenella. She was leaning over the shoulder
of an artist-boy, who, seated at his easel, was copying one of the Gorgon-heads that stood
out on the faded tapestry. She had dismissed us wholly from her thoughts, and, giving play
to her native fun and coquetry, was taunting the youth with the slowness of his labors and
the little progress he had made since she last inspected his work. No wonder that she laughed
at the taste of the boy or his employer. Graver heads than hers might question the motive which
had set the painter such a model. Imagination suggested that some elfin godmother must have
prescribed the task as a condition of her future favor. At all events, the malicious sprite
now acting as overseer felt a sense of triumph in this captive boy, perched against the wall,
and condemned, like herself, to reproduce the past and bring out in fresh colors the staring
eyes and mummied cheeks which would otherwise soon be lost to memory. She certainly made the
most of her opportunity to taunt and tease him, for there was time for a laugh and a word of
raillery only, to which he seemed too shamefaced to respond, before she was at our side again,
gravely announcing, "My lady's chamber!"--and as we looked around the apartment, whose furniture
and decorations imparted to it a superior air of neatness and refinement to that observable
elsewhere, she pointed out to us a private doorway, conducting to a flight of steps, and affording
an exit by which "my lady" had easy access to the court-yard, and thence to the chapel where
she performed her devotions.

"And what are the rooms opposite?" we asked, pointing to a long row of windows on the second
floor, on the opposite side of the quadrangle to that of which we had now completed the inspection.

"Those rooms are never shown," was the mysterious answer.

"But you will show them to us" (spoken coaxingly).

She shook her head, and sealed her lips, with an expression of determination.

"What is in them?"

"Oh, nothing in particular."

"Then we might see them."

No encouragement, but, on the contrary, a resolute negative.

A bribe was held out,--for, by this time, the child's air of mystery and reserve had suggested
a closet like that of Bluebeard, a chamber of torture, or, at least, the proofs of some family-secret.

We might as well have offered a two-shilling bribe to the Iron Duke himself. The miniature
castle-keeper was so firm and so non-committal that she disarmed us of all our ingenuity, defeated
all our tactics, and we gave up the point. I have since learned that this quarter of the mansion
consists of a labyrinth of rooms, shut up because devoid of interest, and containing only some
old lumber. To have conducted us through them would have been to disobey orders, and, worse
still, establish a precedent, from which the child might well shrink. It would have doubled
her arduous round of duty. It was policy, no less than loyalty, which had inspired her.

So, too, when we came to inspect the chapel. She mounted an old oak chest in the rear of the
little sanctuary, just beneath the solitary window, whose quaint patterns in stained glass
pointed to centuries long past. Seated comfortably on this elevation, she rehearsed the history
and described the architecture of the most primitive place of worship I ever saw,--or, if she
left her post to point out some minuter detail, she returned to it as jealously as a watch-dog
to some spot which he is specially appointed to guard. When our curiosity was otherwise satisfied,--when
we had even ascended to the rude confessional, which was a mere excavation in the soft stone
of the wall,--when we had put our hands in the hollow, not unlike a swallow's nest in a mud-bank,
once the receptacle for holy water,--when we had descended the stony pathway, for it was so
worn as scarcely to merit the name of staircase,--when, standing once more on the chapel-pavement,
with minds excited by the thought of those monkish days when priestcraft ruled the land,--our
eyes naturally fell on the old oak chest. What further revelation might not this disclose!
What sacred relics, what curious church-plate, what vellum manuscript, might not be hidden
beneath this heavy lid! Would she rise and let us see?

No,--she maintained her seat and her reserve with as much rigidity as on the former occasion.
Unconvinced by this experience, our imaginations still ran riot. They shadowed forth every
possible beauty and horror which such a giant chest might contain. The story even of "The Bride
of the Mistletoe-Bough" might be verified, if we could but get a peep. At last we prevailed.
The child was persuaded to dismount, we lifted the cover, and the chest was empty,--literally
empty.

Once more the plain fact of the present had swept away the cobwebs of the past, the real had
banished the ideal. While the child of to-day sought only a comfortable rest from weariness,
we had been seeking myths. She looked on as indignant as a dethroned queen. We turned away
a little mortified, and a good deal disappointed.

But the Fenella of the castle was not so very tired, after all. True, she was tired of the
old manor-house, tired of us, tired of her own dull routine of duty; but there was a well-spring
of freshness in her yet. She moved languidly, to be sure, as she now led the way to the tower,
the only portion of the castle yet unvisited. Following her, we ascended, first, to a bare
upper room, a sort of anteroom, from which the ascent to the tower commenced. It presented
a solid inclosure of stone, except on the western side, where it was dimly lighted through
one or two slits in the masonry. Turning my eyes in this direction, I saw our little guide
leaning against the stone framework of one of these chinks in the wall. The beams of western
sunlight came slanting in at precisely the angle of her figure as she leaned back in infantile
repose; her white ribbons, her snowy apron, her golden hair caught and held the sunshine, and
the ray of light which relieved the gloom of the gray old vault seemed to emanate from the child.

One of our party addressed some question to her regarding the probable design of the empty
room in which we stood; but there was no answer,--not even a responsive glance. Her eyes were
fixed upon the stone roof. She looked spell-bound. Before we could follow the direction of
her steady gaze, we were startled by the flapping of wings overhead, and, still more, by the
sudden rushing forward of the child with a loud cry of "Shoo! shoo!" and with her hands stretched
eagerly into the air. Our presence had disturbed a swallow, which had found its way in through
one of the slits, and, perhaps, built a nest in some crevice of the wall. The girl's languor
was instantaneously dispelled by the discovery and the excitement of pursuit. Here, now, was
congenial sport. Hopeless as was the attempt to catch the bird, the joy of frightening it was
sure; and our guide sprang wildly from side to side of the building, uttering exciting exclamations,
and making vain passes at the little creature, which flew round high above her head, now and
then settling in some secure "coigne of vantage." In these intervals we endeavored to catch
the attention of the mischievous fowler, but her task had ended with this tower-room, she had
done with us, she had found an unexpected source of sport, and was not to be deterred from
an enjoyment which she probably thought well-earned. With one eye following the least motion
of the bird, she informed us, at last, in reply to repeated inquiries, that there was nothing
to be told about the room we were in,--that it merely led to the tower,--we could go up into
the tower, if we wished.

She must go with us and show us the way.

"No," was the cool reply. She never went into the tower; she never went any farther than this.

Glancing at the dilapidated state of the stairs leading to the successive stones of the tower,
we were almost tempted to believe that her instinct of self-preservation had reached its climax
here,--that we might break our necks, if we liked,--she preferred not to run the risk. Resolved
to satisfy our suspicions, we pressed the point, and, after many inquiries and waiting a considerable
time upon the motions of the child and her new plaything, we got the brief and somewhat scornful
explanation,--

"What if some other party should come while I was away?"

"We part here, then?"

She nodded in assent, received the fee for her services without acknowledgment, and saw us
depart on our breakneck expedition with an indifference equalled only by the nonchalance with
which she had admitted us on our arrival. The moment our backs were turned, she resumed her play.

After exploring the successive stories of the tower in safety, we descended by way of the anteroom,
but the bird and its pursuer had both of them flown. We passed through a door she had previously
pointed out, and gained the garden as surreptitiously as did Dorothy Vernon, of old, when,
according to the tradition, she escaped through this same doorway on the night of her sister's
nuptials, and eloped with her lover, Mr. (afterwards Sir John) Manners, who had long been haunting
the neighboring forest as an outlaw. We strolled through the ancient garden, all ivied and
moss-grown, admired the stone balustrade, which, time-stained and mouldy, is still the student's
favorite bit of architecture, and at last made our way back to the farm-house,--I am sure I
do not remember how, for we were as deficient in a guide as on our first attempt at entrance.
Whether another party arrived while we were in the tower, and were engrossing her attention,--whether
she was engaged in the more agreeable office of coquetting with the young artist, or was still
chasing the swallow from room to room of the manor-house, I do not know. We saw her no more.
She had barely condescended to let us in, and now left us to find our way out as we could.

She cared nothing at all for us. All the interest we had manifested in her (and it was considerable)
had failed to awaken any emotion. We were a stereotyped feature of the old hall; and the old
hall, though she had sprung from its root, and her life had been nourished by its strength,
was no part of herself,--was her antipathy. Still I never think of the mansion, with all the
romantic associations which cluster around it, but the image of this child comes to break my
reverie, as she did on the day when it was first indulged.

So we go to visit some royal oak, and bring away, as a memento, the daisy which blooms at its
foot; so we stand, as the reward of toil and fatigue, upon an Alpine glacier, and the trophy
and pledge of our visit are the forget-me-not that grew on its margin. Thus youth and beauty
ever press on the footsteps of old age, and youth and beauty bear away the palm.

My faith in legendary lore is confirmed, when I call to mind the Gothic fortress, with its
strong defences against the enemy, its rude suggestions of centuries of hospitality, its tower-lattices,
whence generation after generation of high-born maids waved signals to knightly lovers, its
stairways, worn slippery with the tread of heavy-mailed warriors, its chapel-vault, where chivalrous
lord and noble dame have turned to dust. But there is a faith more precious than the faith
in old song and legend; and the golden-haired child, who flourishes so fresh and fair amidst
all this ruin and decay, stands forth to my mind as an emblem of that power which renovates
earth and defies time. Had she been a pattern child, had her instructors (whoever they were)
succeeded in moulding her into a mere machine, she might not so vividly have roused my interest;
but there was something in her saucy independence, her wayward freaks, her coquettish airs,
her fiery chase after the swallow, which--breaking in, as they did, upon the docility with
which she otherwise went through her round of duty--revivified the desolation of the old hall
with a sudden outburst of humanity. Everywhere else the fountain of life seemed to have died
out, but here it gushed forth a living stream.

We gaze down the centuries and see in them ignorance, error, warning, and ruin at last. What
hope for the race, then, if this were all? But it is not all. The child's foot treading lightly
over the graves is the type of the time-is triumphing over the time-was. Full of faults and
imperfections, she is still the daughter of Hope and Opportunity. She has the past for her
teacher, and the door of knowledge, repentance, and faith stands open before her. Thus childhood
is the rainbow of God's providence, and the brightest feature of His covenant with men.

Silence, desolation, and decay have set their seal upon old Haddon Hall, but chance has set
a child over them all, and the lesson her simple presence teaches is worth more to me than
all the Idyls of the King.

And thus it is that I treasure up the memory of her among my catalogue of guides; and so she
did more for me than she promised, when she undertook to lend me her light through the old Hall.

If there are any who can live without thus borrowing, then let them disparage guides. For the
rest, the best guide is Humility. We have all so many dark paths to tread from the cradle to
the grave, that we need to lay hold on all the helps we can. Groping blindly down the avenues
of Time, who is there that does not long to grasp some friendly hand, or follow in the track
of some traveller familiar with the way?

For me, Experience is a staff on which I am glad to lean, Simplicity is an unfailing leader
where Learning might go astray. Trust is a lamp that burns through the darkest night; and sometimes,
when strong men are weak and wise men foolish, strength and wisdom are given unto babes, and
he whom the counsels of the elders cannot save may walk the narrowest path in safety with his
hand in the hand of a little child.

God grant me guides, then, to my journey's end! God guide us all, whether we will or no! guide
the nations, and make for them a way through the dust, the turmoil, and the strife which Time
has heaped in their path, to the freshness and promise of the new birth! guide each poor yearning
soul through the darkness and doubt that overshadow it, as it journeys on to the clear light
of immortal day!

THE KALIF OF BALDACCA.

    Into the city of Kambalu,
    By the road that leadeth to Ispahan,
    At the head of his dusty caravan,
    Laden with treasure from realms afar,
    Baldacca and Kelat and Kandahar,
    Rode the great captain Alaù.

    The Khan from his palace-window gazed:
    He saw in the thronging street beneath,
    In the light of the setting sun, that blazed
    Through the clouds of dust by the caravan raised,
    The flash of harness and jewelled sheath,
    And the shining scimitars of the guard,
    And the weary camels that bared their teeth,
    As they passed and passed through the gates unbarred
    Into the shade of the palace-yard.

    Thus into the city of Kambalu
    Rode the great captain Alaù;
    And he stood before the Khan, and said,--
    "The enemies of my lord are dead;
    All the Kalifs of all the West
    Bow and obey his least behest;
    The plains are dark with the mulberry-trees,
    The weavers are busy in Samarcand,
    The miners are sifting the golden sand,
    The divers are plunging for pearls in the seas,
    And peace and plenty are in the land.

    "Only Baldacca's Kalif alone
    Rose in rebellion against thy throne:
    His treasures are at thy palace-door,
    With the swords and the shawls and the jewels he wore;
    His body is dust o'er the Desert blown.

    "A mile outside of Baldacca's gate
    I left my forces to lie in wait,
    Concealed by forests and hillocks of sand,
    And forward dashed with a handful of men
    To lure the old tiger from his den
    Into the ambush I had planned.
    Ere we reached the town the alarm was spread,
    For we heard the sound of gongs from within;
    With clash of cymbals and warlike din
    The gates swung wide; we turned and fled,
    And the garrison sallied forth and pursued,
    With the gray old Kalif at their head,
    And above them the banner of Mahomed:
    Thus we snared them all, and the town was subdued.

    "As in at the gate we rode, behold,
    A tower that was called the Tower of Gold!
    For there the Kalif had hidden his wealth,
    Heaped and hoarded and piled on high,
    Like sacks of wheat in a granary;
    And there the old miser crept by stealth
    To feel of the gold that gave him health,
    To gaze and gloat with his hungry eye
    On jewels that gleamed like a glow-worm's spark,
    Or the eyes of a panther in the dark.

    "I said to the Kalif,--'Thou art old,
    Thou hast no need of so much gold.
    Thou shouldst not have heaped and hidden it here,
    Till the breath of battle was hot and near,
    But have sown through the land these useless hoards
    To spring into shining blades of swords,
    And keep thine honor sweet and clear.
    These grains of gold are not grains of wheat;
    These bars of silver thou canst not eat;
    These jewels and pearls and precious stones
    Cannot cure the aches in thy bones,
    Nor keep the feet of Death one hour
    From climbing the stairways of thy tower!'

    "Then into this dungeon I locked the drone,
    And left him to feed there all alone
    In the honey-cells of his golden hive:
    Never a prayer, nor a cry, nor a groan
    Was heard from those massive walls of stone,
    Nor again was the Kalif seen alive!

    "When at last we unlocked the door,
    We found him dead upon the floor;
    The rings had dropped from his withered hands,
    His teeth were like bones in the Desert sands;
    Still clutching his treasures he had died;
    And as he lay there, he appeared
    A statue of gold with a silver beard,
    His arms outstretched as if crucified."

    This is the story, strange and true,
    That the great captain Alaù
    Told to his brother the Tartar Khan,
    When he rode that day into Kambalu
    By the road that leadeth to Ispahan.

LIFE ON THE SEA ISLANDS.

PART II.

A few days before Christmas, we were delighted at receiving a beautiful Christmas Hymn from
Whittier, written by request, especially for our children. They learned it very easily, and
enjoyed singing it. We showed them the writer's picture, and told them he was a very good friend
of theirs, who felt the deepest interest in them, and had written this hymn expressly for them
to sing,--which made them very proud and happy. Early Christmas morning, we were wakened by
the people knocking at the doors and windows, and shouting, "Merry Christmas!" After distributing
some little presents among them, we went to the church, which had been decorated with holly,
pine, cassena, mistletoe, and the hanging moss, and had a very Christmas-like look. The children
of our school assembled there, and we gave them the nice, comfortable clothing, and the picture-books,
which had been kindly sent by some Philadelphia ladies. There were at least a hundred and fifty
children present. It was very pleasant to see their happy, expectant little faces. To them,
it was a wonderful Christmas-Day,--such as they had never dreamed of before. There was cheerful
sunshine without, lighting up the beautiful moss-drapery of the oaks, and looking in joyously
through the open windows; and there were bright faces and glad hearts within. The long, dark
night of the Past, with all its sorrows and its fears, was forgotten; and for the Future,--the
eyes of these freed children see no clouds in it. It is full of sunlight, they think, and they
trust in it, perfectly.

After the distribution of the gifts, the children were addressed by some of the gentlemen present.
They then sang Whittier's Hymn, the "John Brown" song, and several of their own hymns, among
them a very singular one, commencing,--

    "I wonder where my mudder gone;
      Sing, O graveyard!
    Graveyard ought to know me;
      Ring, Jerusalem!
    Grass grow in de graveyard;
      Sing, O graveyard!
    Graveyard ought to know me;
      Ring, Jerusalem!"

They improvise many more words as they sing. It is one of the strangest, most mournful things
I ever heard. It is impossible to give any idea of the deep pathos of the refrain,--

    "Sing, O graveyard!"

In this, and many other hymns, the words seem to have but little meaning; but the tones,--a
whole lifetime of despairing sadness is concentrated in them. They sing, also, "Jehovyah, Hallelujah,"
which we like particularly:--

      "De foxes hab holes,
      An' de birdies hab nes',
      But de Son ob Man he hab not where
      To lay de weary head.

            CHORUS.

