About a month later that county superintendent suddenly became a much wiser mother than she
was before, although her heart was made to ache. Both boys came home from school one day and
the older one met her with something like this: "I am mad! I've been lied to; all the fellows
at school say I have, and they are making sport of me, too," and with a glare in his reddened
eye he continued, "You know that new calf did not come off that wagon; you know that calf came
from old Bess herself; all the fellows say so at school, and they are making all kinds of fun
of me, and I don't want to go back. I'd like to run away from home." The mother quietly drew
the boy to her side and reminded him that she had simply listened; that she had not opened
her mouth; that he came into the room and told about the incident himself, but this did not
satisfy him. He turned to her wounded and crushed, saying: "Well, you let a fellow believe
it, and that's just as bad;" and this educated mother--this trusted custodian of a county full
of school children--beseeched me to warn mothers everywhere to teach their children the truth,
and to never let a child go to school with a sex misunderstanding. She told me that it took
her six months to get that boy's confidence back again.

DON'T GET SHOCKED

I believe that many mothers make the sad mistake of showing the child that they are shocked
by trivial sayings and trifling experiences of their little people. If we could only get it
into our heads for once and for all that our children are born into this world veritable little
thieves and falsifiers, as well as adventurers and explorers, we would then cease being so
shocked and outraged by their frank statements of what they have heard or have done. Let the
mother listen to all these things with calmness, while she seeks to direct the child's mind
in pure and elevated channels--to help him upward by imparting "precept upon precept; here
a little and there a little."

Children will come in with stories that at first thought do greatly shock the parent; but under
no circumstances should the boy or girl discover that the parent is shocked, for if he does
he will not likely come again with another such "shocking" difficulty. One mother told me that
her seven-year-old boy, beginning third grade, came into her bedroom one morning saying: "Mother,
I am just busting to say something," and this mother very wisely said, "Well, say it; certainly
I don't want you to burst," and she told me that this boy whispered to her three of the filthiest
words that he could possibly have heard on the streets. In relating this experience to me she
said: "Do you know, doctor, that I really did not know what to think at first, but I remembered
that you had taught me never to be shocked, and so I looked up and asked: "Do you feel better?"
whereupon he breathed a big sigh and exclaimed: "What a relief! I have just been busting to
say that to somebody." Mother, to whom would you rather he would say these things? to you,
or to some little girl out on the street, or to some older boy? Think what trouble and possible
mischief were avoided by whispering into the sympathetic ear of mother. This wise mother turned
to that little boy and said: "Son, that ear is always waiting for just such things and whenever
you feel like saying something--like getting it off your mind--you just come to me;" and he
came repeatedly. One time he came in saying: "I don't know whether you want me to play with
Harold or not; he does some of those things you told me about the other day." And the mother
thoughtfully and wisely looked up and said: "Did he do it in front of his mother? Why of course
he didn't. Did he ask you to go into the bedroom or bathroom and lock the door?" and the little
fellow quickly answered: "Why sure he did; how did you guess it?" and added "now I suppose
you are not going to let me play with him any more," and this wise mother, knowing that if
she denied him this privilege that it would quite likely be frequently sought, said: "Why,
certainly play with Harold in the open, but whenever he suggests secrecy--" she did not have
time to finish the sentence, the boy said: "I am wise; whenever he gets to doing that 'funny
business' I'll skiddoo." The confidence between that mother and son, to my mind, was wonderfully
sublime--all the while practical and helpful in his daily training.

DON'T REPULSE THE CHILD

A little older child sees the fowls, the dogs, or the cats, "mating," and then, rushing into
the house, inquires what it is all about; and unless the mother is on her guard some older
member of the family may show surprise and thus thoughtlessly convey to the child's mind that
his question is improper and entirely out of place. To the question, "What are they doing,
mamma?" quietly answer, "Just mating, dear, just as the flowers mate; everything that lives
or grows comes as the result of mating."

Suppose that you were repulsed every time you approached a dear friend, your husband, or some
other member of the family? Take, for instance, the matter of a caress or an embrace--how would
you react to repeated rebuff? And so with the little child; he comes into this world full of
confidence and trust, full of wonder and curiosity; possessed with the spirit of exploration
and investigation--everywhere and all the time he asks questions. Usually, his questions are
answered thoughtfully and without hesitancy, except along the line of one thought--that of
sex. Do not think for one moment that he is satisfied by your evasive answers. You have but
to recall your own childhood experiences, and remember that today the moving picture show and
general public sentiment has placed the age for such knowledge from one to five years earlier
in this generation than in the past. I do not care what the child comes into your presence
with, be it the most shocking thing in this world, do not under any circumstances let it disturb
your mental poise, or raise your ire or shock you; for if you do, then and there--at that moment--occurs
a break in the sublime confidence which the child reposes in you.

NECESSARY MORAL TRAINING

While we are using the plant and animal world as object lessons in teaching our children the
facts of sex and the secrets of life; while we face the commonplace sex matings of the animals
about us without cringing, without appearing to be shocked when our children call attention
to these things; nevertheless, when the child is old enough to take cognizance of these phenomena,
he is old enough to begin to receive some definite instruction from his parents regarding the
moral phase of these great biologic problems. We cannot safely and indefinitely utilize the
animal world as an object lesson in sex education, without at the same time emphasizing the
moral difference between man and the beast.

Many parents treat these sex problems so lightly and endeavor to act so naturally and unconcerned
about these questions, that the child comes to look upon the promiscuous sexual relations of
the animal world as something altogether natural; and, unless proper moral and religious training
is carried on at this time, he stands in danger of coming to regard lightly the moral standards
of modern society.

At the same time of life that Mother Nature fully develops the sex instincts--at adolescence--she
also awakens the religious emotions; the one being so necessary for the proper and adequate
control of the other. Let parents take a cue from old Mother Nature, and at the same time the
sex relations of animals are freely discussed with the growing child, let the mother or father
wisely call attention to the fact that but very few of the animals live family lives as do
human beings. In this connection valuable use--by way of illustration--can be made of the ostrich
and some of the ape family who are loyal and true to their chosen companions.

Moral and religious instruction must accompany sex-hygiene teaching just as soon as you leave
the realms of botany and enter the sphere of zoology. We could here relate many a tragic experience
which our patients have passed through as a result of volunteering too much sex knowledge and
at the same time neglecting this very necessary moral instruction.

SANTA CLAUS AND THE STORK

We must bear in mind that the child believes what we tell him; he trusts us implicitly and
we owe it to him to teach him the truth in answer to his numerous questions. We must keep his
confidence. Take the matter of Christmas, for instance. How many confidences have been broken
over the falsehood of Santa Claus and the chimney. Two little fellows hesitated in their play
in the back yard, and the following conversation was heard: "You know that story about Santa
Claus is all a fake." "Sure it is, I know it isn't so, I saw my father and mother filling the
stockings. You know that stork story is all a lie too, there's nothing to it, babies don't
come that way, and now I'm investigating this Jesus Christ story, I suppose that's all a fake
too." The fact of the matter is, that while these children have discovered the truth of the
first two stories, for a long time they will query the third story, for to them, that too is
mysterious and fairy-like. They hadn't seen Santa or the Stork and had only heard about Jesus.

STORY OF THE HUMAN BABY

The story of the human baby may be told to any child of seven to ten years. Each mother will
have to decide in her own mind the right time to go into the details of the human baby seed.
The child should have had an opportunity to have planted some seeds in the ground, to have
visited an incubator, or to have visited the farm and observed the family groups of babies--the
chicks, pigs, calves, etc.--with their mothers.

Let me see now how many different baby seeds do we know? Yes, we do know the radish seeds,
many flower seeds, chicken seeds, bird seeds, corn, potatoes, and many others, and we can tell
them all apart. The boy and girl baby seeds are too tiny to be seen with the eye. They are
so small that it takes about two hundred of them in a row to make one inch. We can only see
these human baby seeds with the aid of a microscope. It is such a precious seed that it cannot
be intrusted to the ground or to a tree nest for development. The great Wise Father decided
that a mamma would love and care for it better than anything or anybody in all the world. So,
just as there is a cradle bed in the mamma flower, so there is in the human mother's own warm
body, tucked far away from the cold rains and the hot sun, a little bed, for the boy and girl
baby seeds. Right near to this little seed bed Mother Nature has prepared a little room, which
holds the tiny "waked up" seed for nearly a year as it slowly grows into a little baby girl
or baby boy.

THE MATING STORY

You remember the story of how Bob Robin found Jenny Robin, don't you? You remember mamma told
you how Bob came up from the southland early in the spring and asked Jenny in lovely bird song
to come and be his very own wife? How he promised her he would feed her on cherries, and currants
and the fattest of worms? And that she told Bob she loved him and went to live with him, and
how they built that cute little nest to hold the eggs; and how Jenny Robin sat on the nest
until the little baby robins were all hatched out.

Well, one day papa found mamma. He met her and loved her dearly and told her he wanted her
to come and live with him, and they built their home nest and were very happy together, because
they decided they would always love each other more than any one else in the world. After mamma
and papa built their home and lived together, one day a wonderful change came to one of the
baby seeds and it awakened and began to grow. Mother Nature whispered to it, and told it how
to find its way into this little room and there it clung to the wall and grew for nearly a
year. Papa brought mamma nice things to eat, just as Bob Robin did Jenny. Papa did everything
he could to make mamma happy and comfortable.

For nearly five months this little seed just grew and did not let anybody know it was there,
until one day it began to tap against the sides of the walls of this little room, and every
time it did mamma's heart just bounded with joy as she thought of the precious seed growing
to be a darling baby--and all inside of her very own body. And one day, after nearly a whole
year had passed, the door to the room began to open, and, very soon, a lovely baby found its
way out of this special room into the big, big world. Mother Nature then told this little baby
that it might still remain close to the mamma it had been with so long, and so she taught it
how to get its food every day from mamma's breast. At this point the child usually breaks out
by saying, "Now, mamma, I know just why I love you so much."

UNFOLDING THE TRUTH

I shall always remember with pleasure my own son, not quite two-and-a-half years old, who sat
at the table one day asking numerous questions such as, "Mamma, what is that? Mamma, where
did that come from?" etc.

He picked up a navel orange, and pointing to the navel said, "What is that?"

I frankly said to him, "Why, my dear, that is the baby orange."

"Why, Mamma," he exclaimed, "do oranges come from oranges?"

"Certainly, dear child; where else could they come from?"

"But," he says, "Mamma, do potatoes come from potatoes?"

"Why, honey," I said, "Orange babies come from orange mammas, potato babies from potato mammas,
grapes come from grape mammas, little kitties from kitty mammas, and little boys from their
mammas."

We simply mixed all the babies up, just as you would mix up a delicious fruit salad. We took
from the mind all question of mystery and surprise by quickly and honestly answering his question.
Thus, his first knowledge of his origin, if he is able to recall it, will ever be associated
with oranges, grapes, potatoes, kittens, etc.

We did not tell the whole story for some two or three years later, but day by day we simply
answered the questions as he asked them.

One day, when he was about three, he burst into my bedroom, saying, "Mamma, dear, I did come
from you, didn't I?"

"Why, yes, darling, from nobody else; just from your own mamma and papa."

"Say, mamma, was my hand in your hand, my foot in your foot, my head in your head?"

"No, dear," I replied, "You were all curled up as snug as a little kitty is when it's asleep,
and you slept for nearly a year in a little room underneath mamma's heart."

It was a wonderful story. He threw his chubby arms about my neck, his legs around my waist,
and said: "You dear, dear, mamma. I do love you and papa more, just awful much."

THE DOCTOR'S PART

In my private sitting-room, where William and I have had many conferences, there hangs my medical-class
picture with classmates and faculty. A member of my family was one day answering the boy's
queries as to who this one or that one was, etc. Finally, on pointing to one particular face,
the answer came to his inquiry, "That's Dr. P. You wouldn't be here if it wasn't for him."
That evening the little fellow, just past three years, came to me and asked, "Mamma, didn't
you say I came from you?"

"Yes, dear," I replied.

"Well, Auntie says I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for Dr. P. What did the doctor have to do
with it?"

"Why, simply this, dear. The door to the little room in which you grew in mamma's body wouldn't
open, and so kind Dr. P. came and helped open the door."

"And let me out?" exclaimed the eager child. "Oh, I want to go and see Dr. P. and thank him
for helping me out!"

And this little fellow was neither shocked or surprised, any more than he was over finding
out that orange babies came from orange mammas.

In the same frank manner in which the simpler questions are answered, strive to answer these
important ones. If we seek to evade, to postpone, to wrap in mystery these sex questions, the
little ones will not forget but will ponder and worry over them, and seek to obtain certain
knowledge from others who oftentimes tell too much or too little, and such information is usually
mixed with much unnecessary matter which may or may not be foreign to this particular subject.
On the other hand, if we frankly and honestly answer the question at hand, curiosity is avoided
and the child feels he understands it all. The subject drops into the background of his mind--into
the marginal consciousness--with the countless other facts he has accumulated. A sense of "knowledge
possession" is as comfortable to the child as it is to the adult.

TRUSTING YOUR CHILD

Often the question arises: "Will they tell to other children this newly found knowledge?" If
the wise mother makes them feel they are a part of a "family," and reminds them that such matters
as the secrets about Santa Claus, the stork, and the baby nest are only discussed in "family
groups," they are often seized with the normal pride which accompanies confidence, and often
keep secrets as well or even better than do most adults.

One day a little man, three-and-a-half years old, was posing for a photograph. The photographer
said: "My little fellow, you pose well. We've had such a good time together. Where did they
get such a lad as you?"

The mother's heart stood still. From her hiding place behind a large curtain at the back of
the studio, she listened, wondering what would be his answer.

At first he hesitated, but after a moment's pause, said: "Really, Mr. W. if you don't know
I feel sorry for you, and I'd really like to tell you, but I can't, it's a secret between me
and my mamma."

Children enjoy secrets. If possible, isolate a group of subjects that are not to be discussed
with playmates, such as Santa Claus facts, the stork story, and the baby story; often the very
isolation of one single fact stands out so big in the child's mind that he is many times tempted
to mention it, when, if it were associated with a whole group of "family secrets" he would
seldom be led to talk about it. As we have said, children can keep secrets much better than
most adults; and just suppose they should tell something--what harm? With twenty-five false
stories in the neighborhood, suppose one story of truth should escape! No particular harm would
result; but I find they keep these secrets well.

Numerous questions will arise which should be met with open frankness. No blush, no shame,
should even suggest itself, for we are dealing with a wonderful truth, so let us give out our
answers with clean hearts and pure minds. The Great Father will bless us and surround our loved
"flock" with a garment of confidence in mother and father that will protect from much of the
evil which is in the world, and, eventually, our little ones will grow into men and women whose
very life of purity will cast its influence into the social circle. Only the company of the
good and the true and the pure will be sought when associating with the opposite sex; while,
in the end, better mothers and better fathers will be developed for the work of the next generation.

TEN POSSIBLE CAUSES OF SECRET VICE

1. The attention of the little folks is often drawn to the sexual organs by a sensation of
itching which accompanies a state of uncleanliness and filth. The genitals must be kept scrupulously
clean. Elsewhere in this book we paid our respects to the rubber diaper, and we wish to reiterate
at this time that it is in all probability responsible for a great deal of masturbation. The
constant moisture and heat keeps the genital organs in a state of congestion which is more
or less accompanied by itching sensations.

2. A long or tight foreskin in the male child favors the accumulation of secretions which not
only occasion itching sensations but oftentimes are the cause of convulsions in early infancy.
In the case of the female, a tight foreskin over the clitoris will retain secretions which
also cause an itching sensation.

3. Unscrupulous nurses sometimes actually teach these little fellows to masturbate.

4. Lying in bed on the back with a full bladder, in the case of the boy, often produces an
erection of the penis, and this is usually accompanied by a feeling of fullness which serves
to direct the mind to the genital organs.

5. Lying in bed alone with nothing to do but to investigate often results in secret vice.

6. The unwise practice of allowing children to visit each other over night and sleep together,
is often productive of mischief.

7. Constantly telling a little girl to keep her feet down, to keep her dress down, makes her
over conscious of sex and otherwise causes the attention to be directed in unhealthy channels.

8. Teasing a child unnecessarily about a little sweetheart often produces an emotional reaction
which is not altogether desirable. These suggestions are especially bad in the older children.

9. Unwise sex knowledge is usually productive of curious investigations, which if not properly
followed up, particularly in those children who are temperamentally secretive, and who do not
fully confide in mother and father, often results in moral misdemeanors.

10. Do not allow two young children habitually to isolate themselves in their play. Direct
their play away from the attic, the basement, and other places remote from direct observation.

There is no use telling a child not to touch that part of his body, particularly if it is a
boy, for it is going to be absolutely impossible for him to carry out such instructions. One
mother overheard her caretaker say, "Don't put your hand there, it isn't nice." Immediately
the wise mother called the caretaker to her and reminded her that most children usually continue
to investigate even though they are told not to, and so the caretaker received this instruction:
"When you see Harry putting his hand to that particular part of his body, just gently draw
it away and divert his attention to something else, and when he goes to sleep in his little
bed teach him to lie on his side and bring his little hands up under his chin or the side of
his face and remain near him telling him a beautiful story until the eyes begin to get sleepy
and pick him up immediately on awaking in the morning."

This mother was quite unlike the mother who once came to my office, saying: "Doctor Lena, I
have done everything to prevent my boy's handling himself, why every time he wakes up at night
I am always awake and I instantly say to him, Charlie where are your hands? You see Doctor,
I am doing the best I know how." Very likely it is unnecessary to call the attention of the
reader to the fact that this mother was doing more harm than good in constantly calling his
attention to the fact that he did have a sexual side to his nature.

TRUTH VS. EXAGGERATION

And just here let us add that while masturbation is an unclean habit, an impure habit, and
a thing altogether to be shunned, we would not be honest to ourselves and to our readers if
we did not explain that under no circumstances does it make foolish minds out of sound minds
or insane minds out of sane minds. If your boy or your girl is going to grow up to be foolish
or insane he had a through ticket for the feebleminded institution or the insane asylum when
he was born into the world. The time when masturbation does affect the mind of the child is
when the mind awakens to the fact that it is allowing an abnormal, unclean, or filthy habit
to dominate mind, soul, and body, and then, and usually not until then, does this bad habit
begin to cause mental depression and a host of other symptoms that so often accompany masturbation.

In our worthy efforts to combat the evils of secret vice let us not go to the other extreme
and create such a condition of mind in the youth of our generation as to lay the foundation
for sexual neurasthenia later on in life, as a result of the protracted worry, constant brooding,
and conscientious condemnation, which they so often experience following some brief or trivial
indulgence in early secret vice. Let us fight this vice with the truth, and not resort to over-exaggerated
pictures which can only serve to blight the hopes and destroy the courage of over-sensitive
boys and girls after they have grown up--as they look back on their lives and recall perhaps
a single misstep in their childhood. In this way we can hope to do good today without mortgaging
the child's happiness and mental peace in years to come.

APPENDIX

APPENDIX

BATHS USED TO REDUCE FEVER

1. The Sponge Bath. The child, completely undressed but loosely wrapped in a wool blanket,
is placed on a table so that the mother or a nurse may conveniently stand while administering
the bath. Close at hand have a number of soft linen towels and a large bowl of tepid water
which may or may not contain a small amount of alcohol, witch-hazel, salt, or vinegar, according
to the doctor's directions. The upper portion of the body is partially uncovered and the tepid
water is applied with the hands to the skin surface of one arm. The hands may be dipped in
water from one to four times, thus making repeated applications of the water to the arm. These
are followed by careful drying--patting rather than rubbing. The other arm is now taken, then
the chest, then the back and last the legs.

2. The Wet-Sheet Pack. Two light-weight wool blankets are folded to fit the child; they should
extend eighteen inches below the feet and should be wide enough to lap well in front. A sheet
just large enough to envelop the body is then wrung out of cold water and spread out over the
woolen blankets. The feverish child is entirely disrobed and is placed on the wet sheet, which
is quickly wrapped about the body, over the chest, under the arms, and between the legs--coming
in contact with the entire skin surface. The dry blankets are quickly brought around and tucked
snugly about the patient. This is a cooling wet-sheet pack and will often so relieve the nervousness
and irritability of a feverish child that he will go to sleep in the pack. In the very young
child, under two years, it is important to put some accessory warmth to the feet such as a
warm-water bottle--not hot. The effect of this pack is very quieting, and is indicated when
the temperature of the child reaches 103 F. or more.

3. The Graduated Bath. This is usually administered in a large bathtub and is beneficial in
the fevers of the older children. The temperature of the water should be one or two degrees
higher than the body temperature, for example--if the child's temperature is 103 F. then the
bath starts out with a temperature of 104 or 105 F. The temperature is then gradually lowered,
about a degree every two minutes, until it reaches 92 or 90 F. A helper should support the
head while the mother or nurse briskly rubs the entire skin surface of the body. This friction
greatly facilitates the fever-reducing work of the bath because it brings the blood to the
surface where it is more readily cooled by the bath. This bath should last ten or fifteen minutes.

4. The Hot Sponge Bath. Often, in combating the high fever of typhoid, the hot sponge bath
is valuable. The hands are dipped in water just as hot as can be borne and are applied to the
chilly, mottled skin which is so often seen in high fever. This bath is administered just as
is the tepid sponge bath. Evaporation is allowed to take place to some extent by delaying the
drying. In this instance the child should be wrapped in a warm wool blanket with only a portion
of the body exposed at one time.

5. The Hot-Blanket Pack. The hot-blanket pack is indicated at the onset of many fevers such
as in typhoid, grippe, pneumonia, etc. Like the wet-sheet pack, the blankets are spread upon
the bed, abundant accessory heat is applied--such as a half-dozen hot-water bottles. In the
absence of these, glass jars or hot ears of corn may be utilized. Hot bricks or hot stove lids
wrapped in paper are also serviceable. A blanket, in size to suit the individual (an adult
would use a full single blanket, a child one-half of a single blanket), is wrung very dry from
boiling water. This may be done by the means of a wash wringer, or two persons grasping the
blanket by its gathered ends may so twist it that it looks very much like an old-fashioned
twisted doughnut. The twist is now lowered into boiling water, and as each pulls the twist
wrings itself. This is at once quickly spread out so as to let the child lay on the center,
and then the hot sides are brought in contact with the skin, just as in the wet-sheet pack.
The dry blankets are now brought quickly and snugly about the child. Just outside the second
dry blanket the accessory heat is placed to the sides of the trunk, the sides of the thighs,
and one at the feet. A wrapped stove lid or a hot-water bottle is placed over the pelvis and
one under the back. Cold cloths are put on the face and around the neck, and these should be
changed every three minutes. This pack continues for fifteen or twenty minutes, at the end
of which time the accessory heat and the wet blanket are removed and the patient is cooled
off by a cold mitten friction, a saline rub, a witch-hazel rub, or an alcohol rub; or the patient
may be placed in a tub of water, temperature 98 F., after which he should be carefully dried off.

6. Sweating Baths. Another bath which is effectual at the onset of grippe or pneumonia is the
sweating bath. The bowels should have moved some time before the treatment. Have ready a large
bowl of ice water, two turkish towels, one sheet, and four wool blankets. The bathtub is now
filled with water at the temperature of 100 F.; which is quickly raised up to 103 or 104 F.
Ice-water towels are applied to the head, neck and heart. The patient remains in this bath
for about ten minutes, after which he steps out and at once gets into the four hot, dry blankets
previously spread out on the bed. No time is lost, the patient is quickly wrapped in the hot
blankets and sweating continues for twenty minutes. The covering is now loosened and gradual
cooling takes place. It is well to go to bed at once.

TONIC BATHS

1. The Cold Mitten Friction. The cold mitten friction is a bath that is applicable to any condition
where the child or adult needs "toning up." It should always be preceded by heat to the feet.
The following articles are necessary. Four or five turkish towels, a warm wool blanket, a hot-water
bottle for the feet, a bowl containing water, a generous piece of ice, and a rough mitten without
a thumb. The patient's clothes are removed and he is wrapped in the warm blanket with heat
to the feet. One part of the body is taken at a time, first the arm, then the other arm, then
the chest, the abdomen, one leg, the second leg, and last the back and the buttocks. A dry
turkish towel is placed under the part to be treated, and after the mittened hand is dipped
in ice-water, brisk short friction strokes are given to the arm until it is pink. Several dippings
of the mitten in ice-water are necessary. One cannot be too active in administering this bath.
Slow, Delsarte movements are entirely out of place at this time. Action--and quick action--is
a necessity. No part of the child's body is left until it is pink. It is an invigorating tonic
bath and is indicated in all conditions of low vitality, functional inactivity, puniness, rickets,
etc.

2. The Salt Glow. Fill the bathtub half full of warm water, temperature 100 F. Slightly moisten
one quart of coarse salt. Stand the patient in the water, placing one foot on the side of the
tub while you rub the entire leg with the salt until it is very pink. The other leg is treated
in the same manner, as also are the arms, abdomen, chest, and last, the back. By this time
he will be all aglow from head to foot. Rinse off the salt, and give him a cold dash with the
hands or a spray.

THE NEUTRAL BATH

Fill the tub with water at just 97 F., and remain in the bath for twenty minutes or more, with
the eyes covered, all the while maintaining the temperature at 97 F. Dry gently with a sheet
to avoid exertion and exposure. Go at once to bed.

FOMENTATIONS

Hot fomentations often relieve suffering and are indicated in such conditions as menstrual
pain, abdominal cramps, colic, backaches, etc. A good substitute for fomentations may be given
as follows: Fill a hot bag half-full of boiling water. Over this place a wet flannel and two
layers of dry flannel. Apply for fifteen or twenty minutes over the skin area to be treated,
finishing up with a cold water or alcohol rub.

A very effectual way of applying moist heat to any portion of the body is by the means of hot
fomentations which are given as follows:

One-fourth of a single woolen blanket (part cotton) is folded and grasped at the ends and twisted
like an old-fashioned doughnut. The twist is then immersed in boiling water, the hands still
grasping the dry ends, and then by simply pulling out the twist (widely separating the hands)
the fomentation wrings itself. This is placed steaming hot over the affected area which has
been first covered by a dry flannel. It is allowed to remain on for three or four minutes,
and then another hot one wrung from the boiling water replaces the cool one. About four or
five such applications are made. The skin should be very red at the close of this treatment.
It is finished up with a quick, cold application to the reddened skin area.

THE SOAP SHAMPOO

The undressed child is placed upon a low stool in the half-filled bathtub at 100 F. with the
feet in the warm water. A good lather is applied all over the body with good friction by the
means of a shampoo brush and soap. He is then allowed to sit down in the tub and splash about
all he pleases, rinse the soap off and allow him to have a good time generally. At the close
of the treatment the water is cooled down and the treatment is finished with a brisk rub with
the hands dipped in cold water. The skin of the child should be pink at the close of the treatment.

MOIST ABDOMINAL BANDAGE

The moist abdominal bandage is indicated in such conditions as kidney inflammation which is
so often seen in the second week of scarlet fever; or in congestion of any of the internal
organs such as the liver, the stomach, intestines, etc., and is applied as follows: Spread
out the flannel bandage and over it place the mackintosh. Wring dry the cotton strip from cold
water, and spread it over the mackintosh. Wrap all three layers, the wet cloth next the skin,
closely about the body, so as to prevent the air from getting under it. Be sure that the feet
are warm while adjusting the bandage. In the morning remove the bandage, and rub the skin briskly
with a turkish towel dipped in cold water, until the skin is pink and dry. The cotton strip
should be boiled every other day to avoid skin eruptions.

HEATING COMPRESS

