This is the only simple sound, but four other sounds are derived from it. The three a's articulated
by closing the uvula, give the nasal an. Each family also gives its special nasal sound: in
for the eccentric voice, on for the normal state, un for the concentric. All other sounds are
derived from combinations of these. The mouth cannot possibly produce more than three families
of sounds, and in each family it is a united with the others that forms the trinity.

The variety of sounds in these three families of vowels arises from the difference of the opening
of the mouth and lips in articulating them. These different modes of articulation may be rendered
more intelligible by the subjoined diagrams:

â is pronounced with the mouth very wide open, the uvula raised and the tongue much lowered.

    ---------------------
   O                     O
    ---------------------

é, è, i and in are articulated with the lips open and the back part of the mouth gradually closed.

      /
     /
    /
    \
     \
      \

a, au, ou and on are articulated with the back of the mouth open and the lips gradually closed.

    \
     \
      \
      /
     /
    /

e, eu, u and un are articulated with the back of the mouth and the lips uniformly closed.

    ---------------------
    ---------------------

The voice takes different names, according to the different sounds in each family of vowels:
the chest-voice, the medium voice and the head-voice.

These names imply no change in the sort of voice, but a change in the manner of emission. The
head, medium or chest-voice, indicates only variety in the emission of vowels, and may be applied
to the high as well as the deep and medium voice. Thus the deep voice may produce sounds in
the head-voice, as well as in the medium and chest voices.

The head-voice is produced by lowering the larynx, and at the same time raising the uvula.
In swallowing, the larynx rises by the elevation of the uvula, without which elevation there
can be no head-tones.

Practical Conclusions.

1. It is highly important to know how to assume either of these voices at will. The chest-voice
is the expression of the sensitive or vital life, and is the interpreter of all physical emotions.
The medium voice expresses sentiment and the moral emotions. The head-voice interprets everything
pertaining to scientific or mental phenomena. By observing the laugh in the vital, moral and
intellectual states, we shall see that the voice takes the sound of the vowel corresponding
to each state.

We understand the laugh of an individual; if upon the i (e long), he has made a sorry jest;
if upon é (a in fate), he has nothing in his heart and most likely nothing in his head; if
upon á (a short), the laugh is forced. O, à, (a long) and ou are the only normal expressions.
Thus every one is measured, numbered, weighed. There is reason in everything, even when unknown
to man. In physical pain or joy, the laugh or groan employs the vowels é, è, i.[3]

2. The chest-voice should be little used, as it is a bestial and very fatiguing voice.

3. The head-voice or the medium voice is preferable, it being more noble and more ample, and
not fatiguing. In these voices there is far less danger of hoarseness. The head and medium
voices proceed more from the mouth, while the chest-voice has its vibrating point in the larynx.

4. The articulation of the three syllables, la, mo and po, is a very useful exercise in habituating
one to the medium voice. Besides reproducing the tone of this voice, these are the musical
consonants par excellence. They give charm and development to the voice. We can repeat these
tones without fatiguing the vocal chords, since they are produced by the articulative apparatus.

5. It is well to remark that the chest, medium and head voices are synonymous with the eccentric,
normal or concentric voice.

6. It is only a hap-hazard sort of orator who does not know how to attain, at the outset, what
is called the white voice, to be colored afterward at will. The voice should resemble the painter's
pallet, where all the colors are arranged in an orderly manner, according to the affinities
of each. A colorless tint may be attained in the same way as a pure tint. It may be well to
remark here, although by anticipation, that the expressions of the hand and brow belong to
the voice. The coloring of the larynx corresponds to the movements of the hand or brows.

Sound is painting, or it is nothing. It should be in affinity with the subject.

The voice has three dimensions--height, depth and breadth; in other terms, diapason, intensity
and duration; or in yet other words, tonality, timbre and succession.

Intensity may be applied alike to the voice and to sound. The voice is strong or weak, according
to the mechanism of the acoustic apparatus. The strength or weakness of sound depends upon
the speaker, who from the same apparatus evolves tones more or less strong. It is the forte,
piano and pianissimo in music. Thus a loud voice can render weak tones, and a weak voice loud
tones. Hence the tones of both are capable of increase or diminution.

Means of Augmenting the Timbre of the Voice.

1. A stronger voice may be obtained by taking position not upon the heel or flat of the foot,
but upon the ball near the toes--that attitude which further on we shall designate as the third.
The chest is eccentric; that is, convex and dilated. In this position all the muscles are tense
and resemble the chords of an instrument whose resonance is proportional to their tension.

2. There are three modes of developing the voice. A voice may be manufactured. A natural voice
is almost always more or less changed by a thousand deleterious influences.

1. In volume, by lowering the larynx, elevating the soft-palate and hollowing the tongue.

2. In intensity.--A loud voice may be hollow. It must be rendered deep, forcible and brilliant
by these three methods: profound inspiration, explosion and expulsion. The intensity of an
effect may depend upon expulsion or an elastic movement. Tenuity is elasticity. It is the rarest
and yet the most essential quality of diction.

3. In compass.--There are three ways of increasing the compass of the voice:

  1. By the determination of its pitch;
  2. By practicing the vocal scale;
  3. By the fusion of the registers upon the key-note.

The first of these methods is most effective. The second consists in exercising upon those
notes which are near the key-note. Upon this exercise depends in great measure the homogeneity
of the voice. Taking la for the diapason, the voice which extends from the lowest notes to
upper re is the chest-voice, since it suffers no acoustic modification. From mi to la the voice
is modified; it is the medium voice, or the second register, which gives full and supple tones.
The head or throat-voice, or the third register, extends from si to the highest and sharpest
notes. Its tones are weak, and should be avoided as much as possible. There are then only four
good notes--those from mi to la, upon which the voice should be exercised. By uniting the registers,
an artificial, homogeneous voice may be created, whose tones are produced without compression
and without difficulty. This being done, it is evident that every note of the voice must successively
indicate the three registers--that is, it must be rendered in the chest, medium and head voices.

There is also a method of diminishing the voice. As the tone is in proportion to the volume
of air in the lungs, it may be weakened by contracting the epiglottis or by suppressing the
respiration.

Rules for Intensity of Sound.

1. The strength of the voice is in an inverse ratio to the respiration. The more we are moved,
the less loudly we speak; the less the emotion, the stronger the voice. In emotion, the heart
seems to mount to the larynx, and the voice is stifled. A soft tone should always be an affecting
tone, and consist only of a breath. Force is always opposed to power. It is an error to suppose
that the voice must be increased as the heart is laid bare. The lowest tones are the best understood.
If we would make a low voice audible, let us speak as softly as we can.

Go to the sea-shore when the tempest rages. The roar of the waves as they break against the
vessel's side, the muttering thunders, the furious wind-gusts render the strongest voice impotent.
Go upon a battle-field when drums beat and trumpets sound. In the midst of this uproar, these
discordant cries, this tumult of opposing armies, the leader's commands, though uttered in
the loudest tones, can scarce be heard; but a low whistle will be distinctly audible. The voice
is intense in serenity and calm, but in passion it is weak.

Let those who would bring forward subtle arguments against this law, remember that logic is
often in default when applied to artistic facts.

A concert is given in a contracted space, with an orchestra and a double-bass. The double-bass
is very weak. Logic would suggest two double-basses in order to produce a stronger tone. Quite
the contrary. Two double-basses give only a semitone, which half a double-bass renders of itself.
So much for logic in this case.

The greatest joy is in sorrow, for here there is the greatest love. Other joys are only on
the surface. We suffer and we weep because we love. Of what avail are tears? The essential
thing is to love. Tears are the accessories; they will come in time, they need not be sought.
Nothing so wearies and disgusts us, as the lachrymose tone. A man who amounts to anything is
never a whimperer.

Take two instruments in discord and remote from each other. Logic forbids their approach lest
their tones become more disagreeable. The reverse is true. In bringing them together, the lowest
becomes higher and the highest lower, and there is an accord.

Let us suppose a hall with tapestries, a church draped in black. Logic says, "sing more loudly."
But this must be guarded against lest the voice become lost in the draperies. The voice should
scarce reach these too heavy or too sonorous partitions, but leaving the lips softly, it should
pulsate through the audience, and go no farther.

An audience is asleep. Logic demands more warmth, more fire. Not at all. Keep silent and the
sleepers will awaken.

2. Sound, notwithstanding its many shades, should be homogeneous; that is, as full at the end
as at the beginning. The mucous membrane, the lungs and the expiratory muscles have sole charge
of its transmission. The vocal tube must not vary any more for the loud tone than for the low
tone. The opening must be the same. The low tone must have the power of the loud tone, since
it is to be equally understood. The acoustic organs should have nothing to do with the transmission
of sound. They must be inert so that the tone may be homogeneous. The speaker or singer should
know how to diminish the tone without the contraction of the back part of the mouth.

To be homogeneous the voice must be ample. To render it ample, take high rather than low notes.
The dipthong eu (like u in muff), and the vowels u and o give amplitude to sound. On the contrary,
the tone is meagre in articulating the vowels é, í and á. To render the voice ample, we open
the throat and roll forth the sound. The more the sound is circumvoluted, the more ample it
is. To render the voice resonant, we draw the tongue from the teeth and give it a hollow form;
then we lower the larynx, and in this way imitate the French horn.

3. The voice should always be sympathetic, kindly, calm, and noble, even when the most repulsive
things are expressed. A tearful voice is a grave defect, and must be avoided. The same may
be said of the tremulous voice of the aged, who emphasize and prolong their syllables. Tears
are out of place in great situations; we should weep only at home. To weep is a sure way of
making people laugh.

The third and last relation in which we shall study voice, is its breadth, that is, the measure
or rhythm of its tones.

The object of measure in oratorical diction is to regulate the interval of sounds. But the
length of the interval between one sound and another is subject to the laws of slowness and
rapidity, respiration, silence and inflection.

Let us first consider slowness and rapidity, and the rules which govern them.

1. A hasty delivery is by no means a proof of animation, warmth, fire, passion or emotion in
the orator; hence in delivery, as in tone, haste is in an inverse ratio to emotion. We do not
glide lightly over a beloved subject; a prolongation of tones is the complaisance of love.
Precipitation awakens suspicions of heartlessness; it also injures the effect of the discourse.
A teacher with too much facility or volubility puts his pupils to sleep, because he leaves
them nothing to do, and they do not understand his meaning. But let the teacher choose his
words carefully, and every pupil will want to suggest some idea; all will work. In applauding
an orator we usually applaud ourselves. He says what we were just ready to say; we seem to
have suggested the idea. It is superfluous to remark that slowness without gesture, and especially
without facial expression, would be intolerable. A tone must always be reproduced with an expression
of the face.

2. The voice must not be jerky. Here we must keep jealous watch over ourselves. The entire
interest of diction arises from a fusion of tones. The tones of the voice are sentient beings,
who love, hold converse, follow each other and blend in a harmonious union.

3. It is never necessary to dwell upon the sound we have just left; this would be to fall into
that jerky tone we wish to avoid.

Of Respiration and Silence.

We place respiration and silence under the same head because of their affinity, for respiration
may often be accounted silence.

Of silence.--Silence is the father of speech, and must justify it. Every word which does not
proceed from silence and find its vindication in silence, is a spurious word without claim
or title to our regard. Origin is the stamp, in virtue of which we recognize the intrinsic
value of things. Let us, then, seek in silence the sufficient reason of speech, and remember
that the more enlightened the mind is, the more concise is the speech that proceeds from it.
Let us assume, then, that this conciseness keeps pace with the elevation of the mind, and that
when the mind arrives at the perception of the true light, finding no words that can portray
the glories open to its view, it keeps silent and admires. It is through silence that the mind
rises to perfection, for silence is the speech of God.

Apart from this consideration, silence recommends itself as a powerful agent in oratorical
effects. By silence the orator arouses the attention of his audience, and often deeply moves
their hearts. When Peter Chrysologue, in his famous homily upon the gospel miracle of the healing
of the issue of blood, overcome by emotion, paused suddenly and remained silent, all present
immediately burst into sobs.

Furthermore, silence gives the orator time and liberty to judge of his position. An orator
should never speak without having thought, reflected and arranged his ideas. Before speaking
he should decide upon his stand-point, and see clearly what he proposes to do. Even a fable
may be related from many points of view; from that of expression as well as gesture, from that
of inflection as well as articulate speech. All must be brought back to a scene in real life,
to one stand-point, and the orator must create for himself, in some sort, the rôle of spectator.

Silence gives gesture time to concentrate, and do good execution.

One single rule applies to silence: Wherever there is ellipsis, there is silence. Hence the
interjection and conjunction, which are essentially elliptic, must always be followed by a silence.

Respiration.--For the act of respiration, three movements are necessary: inspiration, suspension
and expiration.

Its importance.--Respiration is a faithful rendering of emotion. For example: He who reigns
in the skies. Here is a proposition which the composed orator will state in a breath. But should
he wish to prove his emotion, he inspires after every word. He--who--reigns--in--the--skies.
Multiplied inspirations can be tolerated on the strength of emotion, but they should be made
as effective as possible.

Inspiration is allowable:--

  1. After all words preceded or followed by an ellipse;
  2. After words used in apostrophe, as Monsieur, Madame;
  3. After conjunctions and interjections when there is silence;
  4. After all transpositions; for example: To live, one must work. Here
     the preposition to takes the value of its natural antecedent,
     work; that is to say, six degrees, since by inversion it precedes
     it, and the gesture of the sentence bears wholly on the preposition;
  5. Before and after incidental phrases;
  6. Wherever we wish to indicate an emotion.

To facilitate respiration, stand on tip-toe and expand the chest.

Inspiration is a sign of grief; expiration is a sign of tenderness. Sorrow is inspiratory;
happiness, expiratory.

The inspiratory act expresses sorrow, dissimulation.

The expiratory act expresses love, expansion, sympathy.

The suspensory act expresses reticence and disquietude. A child who has just been corrected
deservedly, and who recognizes his fault, expires. Another corrected unjustly, and who feels
more grief than love, inspires.

Inspiration is usually regulated by the signs of punctuation, which have been invented solely
to give more exactness to the variety of sounds.

Inflections.

Their importance.--Sound, we have said, is the language of man in the sensitive state. We call
inflections the modifications which affect the voice in rendering the emotions of the senses.
The tones of the voice must vary with the sensations, each of which should have its note. Of
what use to man would be a phonetic apparatus always rendering the same sound? Delivery is
a sort of music whose excellence consists in a variety of tones which rise or fall according
to the things they have to express. Beautiful but uniform voices resemble fine bells whose
tone is sweet and clear, full and agreeable, but which are, after all, bells, signifying nothing,
devoid of harmony and consequently without variety. To employ always the same action and the
same tone of voice, is like giving the same remedy for all diseases. "Ennui was born one day
from monotony," says the fable.

Man has received from God the privilege of revealing the inmost affections of his being through
the thousand inflections of his voice. Man's least impressions are conveyed by signs which
reveal harmony, and which are not the products of chance. A sovereign wisdom governs these signs.

With the infant in its cradle the signs of sensibility are broken cries. Their acuteness, their
ascending form, indicate the weakness, and physical sorrow of man. When the child recognizes
the tender cares of its mother, its voice becomes less shrill and broken; its tones have a
less acute range, and are more poised and even. The larynx, which is very impressionable and
the thermometer of the sensitive life, becomes modified, and produces sounds and inflections
in perfect unison with the sentiments they convey.

All this, which man expresses in an imitative fashion, is numbered, weighed and measured, and
forms an admirable harmony. This language through the larynx is universal, and common to all
sensitive beings. It is universal with animals as with man. Animals give the identical sounds
in similar positions.

The infant, delighted at being mounted on a table, and calling his mother to admire him, rises
to the fourth note of the scale. If his delight becomes more lively, to the sixth; if the mother
is less pleased than he would have her, he ascends to the third minor to express his displeasure.
Quietude is expressed by the fourth note.

Every situation has its interval, its corresponding inflection, its corresponding note: this
is a mathematical language.

Why this magnificent concert God has arranged in our midst if it has no auditors? If God had
made us only intelligent beings, he would have given us speech alone and without inflections.
Let us further illustrate the rôle of inflection.

A father receives a picture from his daughter. He expresses his gratitude by a falling inflection:
"Ah well! the dear child." The picture comes from a stranger whom he does not know as a painter;
he will say, "Well now! why does he send me this?" raising his voice.

If he does not know from whom the picture comes, his voice will neither rise nor fall; he will
say, "Well! well! well!"

Let us suppose that his daughter is the painter. She has executed a masterpiece. Astonished
at the charm of this work and at the same time grateful, his voice will have both inflections.

If surprise predominates over love the rising inflection will predominate. If love and surprise
are equal, he will simply say, "Well now!"

Kan in Chinese signifies at the same time the roof of a house, a cellar, well, chamber, bed--the
inflection alone determines the meaning. Roof is expressed by the falling, cellar by the rising
inflection. The Chinese note accurately the depth and acuteness of sound, its intervals and
its intensity.

We can say: "It is pretty, this little dog!" in 675 different ways. Some one would do it harm.
We say: "This little dog is pretty, do not harm it!" "It is pretty because it is so little."
If it is a mischievous or vicious dog, we use pretty in an ironical sense. "This dog has bitten
my hand. It is a pretty dog indeed!" etc.

Rules of Inflection.

1. Inflections are formed by an upward or downward slide of the voice, or the voice remains
in monotone. Inflections are, then, eccentric, concentric and normal.

2. The voice rises in exaltation, astonishment, and conflict.

3. The voice falls in affirmation, affection and dejection.

4. It neither rises nor falls in hesitation.

5. Interrogation is expressed by the rising inflection when we do not know what we ask; by
the falling, when we do not quite know what we ask. For instance, a person asks tidings of
his friend's health, aware or unaware that he is no better.

6. Musical tones should be given to things that are pleasing. Courtiers give musical inflections
to the words they address to royalty.

7. Every manifestation of life is a song; every sound is a song. But inflections must not be
multiplied, lest delivery degenerate into a perpetual sing-song. The effect lies entirely in
reproducing the same inflection. A drop of water falling constantly, hollows a rock. A mediocre
man will employ twenty or thirty tones. Mediocrity is not the too little, but the too much.
The art of making a profound impression is to condense; the highest art would be to condense
a whole scene into one inflection. Mediocre speakers are always seeking to enrich their inflections;
they touch at every range, and lose themselves in a multitude of intangible effects.

8. In real art it is not always necessary to fall back upon logic. The reason needs illumination
from nature, as the eye, in order to see, needs light. Reason may be in contradiction to nature.
For instance, a half-famished hunter, in sight of a good dinner, would say: "I am hungry" emphasizing
hungry, while reason would say that am must be emphasized. A hungry pauper would say: "I am
hungry," dwelling upon am and gliding over hungry. If he were not hungry, or wished to deceive,
he would dwell upon hungry.

Special Inflections.

Among the special inflections we may reckon:--

1. Exclamations.--Abrupt, loud, impassioned sounds, and improvisations.

2. Cries.--These are prolonged exclamations called forth by a lively sentiment of some duration,
as acute suffering, joy or terror. They are formed by the sound a. In violent pain arising
from a physical cause, the cries assume three different tones: one grave, another acute, the
last being the lowest, and we pass from one to the other in a chromatic order.

There are appealing cries which ask aid in peril. These cries are formed by the sounds ē and
ŏ. They are slower than the preceding, but more acute and of greater intensity.

3. Groans.--Here the voice is plaintive, pitiful, and formed by two successive tones, the one
sharp, the final one deep. Its monotony, the constant recurrence of the same inflection, give
it a remarkable expression.

4. Lamentation is produced by a voice loud, plaintive, despairing and obstinate, indicating
a heart which can neither contain nor restrain itself.

5. The sob is an uninterrupted succession of sounds produced by slight, continuous inspirations,
in some sort convulsive, and ending in a long, violent inspiration.

6. The sigh is a weak low tone produced by a quick expiration followed by a slow and deep inspiration.

7. The laugh is composed of a succession of loud, quick, monotonous sounds formed by an uninterrupted
series of slight expirations, rapid and somewhat convulsive, of a tone more or less acute and
prolonged, and produced by a deep inspiration.

8. Singing is the voice modulated or composed of a series of appreciable tones.

Part Second.

Gesture.

Chapter I.

Of Gesture in General.

Human word is composed of three languages. Man says what he feels by inflections of the voice,
what he loves by gesture, what he thinks by articulate speech. The child begins with feeling;
then he loves, and later, he reasons. While the child only feels, cries suffice him; when he
loves, he needs gestures; when he reasons, he must have articulate language. The inflections
of the voice are for sensations, gesture is for sentiments; the buccal apparatus is for the
expression of ideas. Gesture, then, is the bond of union between inflection and thought. Since
gesture, in genealogical order, holds the second rank in human languages, we shall reserve
for it that place in the series of our oratorical studies.

We are entering upon a subject full of importance and interest. We purpose to render familiar
the heart language, the expression of love.

We learn dead languages and living languages: Greek, Latin, German, English. Is it well to
know conventional idioms, and to ignore the language of nature? The body needs education as
well as the mind. This is no trivial work. Let it be judged by the steps of the ideal ladder
we must scale before reaching the perfection of gesture. Observe the ways of laboring men.
Their movements are awkward, the joints do not play. This is the first step.

At a more advanced stage, the shoulders play without the head. The individual turns around
with a great impulse from the shoulders, with the leg raised, but the hand and the rest of
the body remain inert. Then come the elbows, but without the hand. Later come the wrist-joint
and the torso. With this movement of the wrist, the face becomes mobilized, for there is great
affinity between these two agents. The face and hand form a most interesting unity. Finally,
from the wrist, the articulation passes to the fingers, and here is imitative perfection. If
we would speak our language eloquently, we must not be beguiled into any patois of gesture.

Gesture must be studied in order to render it faultlessly elegant, but in such a thorough way
as not to seem studied. It has still higher claims to our regard in view of the services it
has rendered to humanity. Thanks to this language of the heart, thousands of deaf-mutes are
enabled to endure their affliction, and to share our social pleasures. Blessèd be the Abbé
de l'Epée, who, by uniting the science of gesture to the conventional signs of dactyology,
has made the deaf hear and the dumb speak! This beneficent invention has made gesture in a
twofold manner, the language of the heart.

Gesture is an important as well as interesting study. How beautiful it is to see the thousand
pieces of the myological apparatus set in motion and propelled by this grand motor feeling!
There surely is a joy in knowing how to appreciate an image of Christ on the cross, in understanding
the attitudes of Faith, Hope and Charity. We can note a mother's affection by the way she holds
her child in her arms. We can judge of the sincerity of the friend who grasps our hand. If
he holds the thumb inward and pendant, it is a fatal sign; we no longer trust him. To pray
with the thumbs inward and swaying to and fro, indicates a lack of sacred fervor. It is a corpse
who prays. If you pray with the arms extended and the fingers bent, there is reason to fear
that you adore Plutus. If you embrace me without elevating the shoulders, you are a Judas.

What can you do in a museum, if you have not acquired, if you do not wish to acquire the science
of gesture? How can you rightly appreciate the beauty of the statue of Antinous? How can you
note a fault in Raphael's picture of Moses making water gush from the rock? How see that he
has forgotten to have the Israelites raise their shoulders, as they stand rapt in admiration
of the miracle? One versed in the science of gesture, as he passes before the Saint Michael
Fountain, must confess that the statue of the archangel with its parallel lines, is little
better than the dragon at his feet.

In view of the importance and interest of the language of gesture, we shall study it thoroughly
in the second book of our course. It is elliptical discourse. Each part of this definition
may be easily justified.

1. Gesture is the Direct Agent of the Heart.--Look at an infant. For some time he manifests
his joy or sorrow through cries; but these are not gesture. When he comes to know the cause
of his joy or sorrow, sentiment awakens, his heart opens to love or hatred, and he expresses
his new emotion not by cries alone, nor yet by speech; he smiles upon his mother, and his first
gesture is a smile. Beings endowed only with the sensitive life, have no smile; animals do
not laugh.

This marvelous correspondence of the organs with the sentiment arises from the close union
of soul and body. The brain ministers to the operations of the soul. Every sentiment must have
its echo in the brain, in order to be unerringly transmitted by the organic apparatus.

Ex visu cognoscitur vir. ("The man is known by his face.") The rôle of dissimulation is a very
difficult one to sustain.

2. Gesture is the Interpreter of Speech.--Gesture has been given to man to reveal what speech
is powerless to express. For example: I love. This phrase says nothing of the nature of the
being loved, nothing of the fashion in which one loves. Gesture, by a simple movement, reveals
all this, and says it far better than speech, which would know how to render it only by many
successive words and phrases. A gesture, then, like a ray of light, can reflect all that passes
in the soul.

Hence, if we desire that a thing shall be always remembered, we must not say it in words; we
must let it be divined, revealed by gesture. Wherever an ellipse is supposable in a discourse,
gesture must intervene to explain this ellipse.

3. Gesture is an Elliptical Language.--We call ellipse a hidden meaning whose revelation belongs
to gesture. A gesture must correspond to every ellipse. For example: "This medley of glory
and gain vexes me." If we attribute something ignominious or abject to the word medley, there
is an ellipse in the phrase, because the ignominy is implied rather than expressed. Gesture
is then necessary here to express the value of the implied adjective, ignominious.

Suppress this ellipse, and the gesture must also be suppressed, for gesture is not the accompaniment
of speech. It must express the idea better and in another way, else it will be only a pleonasm,
an after conception of bad taste, a hindrance rather than an aid to intelligible expression.

Division of Gesture.

Every act, gesture and movement has its rule, its execution and its raison d'être. The imitative
is also divided into three parts: the static, the dynamic and the semeiotic. The static is
the base, the dynamic is the centre, and the semeiotic the summit. The static is the equiponderation
of the powers or agents; it corresponds to life.

The dynamic is the form of movements. The dynamic is melodic, harmonic and rhythmic. Gesture
is melodic by its forms or its inflections. To understand gesture one must study melody. There
is great affinity between the inflections of the voice and gesture. All the inflections of
the voice are common to gesture. The inflections of gesture are oblique for the life, direct
for the soul and circular for the mind. These three terms, oblique, direct and circular, correspond
to the eccentric, normal and concentric states. The movements of flection are direct, those
of rotation, circular, those of abduction, oblique.

Gesture is harmonic through the multiplicity of the agents which act in the same manner. This
harmony is founded upon the convergence or opposition of the movements. Thus the perfect accord
is the consonance of the three agents,--head, torso and limbs. Dissonance arises from the divergence
of one of these agents.

Finally, gesture is rhythmic because its movements are subordinated to a given measure. The
dynamic corresponds to the soul.

The semeiotic gives the reason of movements, and has for its object the careful examination
of inflections, attitudes and types.

Under our first head, we treat of the static and of gesture in general; under our second, of
the dynamic, and of gesture in particular; and finally, under our third head, of the semeiotic,
with an exposition of the laws of gesture.

Chapter III.

Origin and Oratorical Value of Gesture.

Origin.

The infant in the cradle has neither speech nor gesture:--he cries. As he gains sensibility
his tones grow richer, become inflections, are multiplied and attain the number of three million
special and distinct inflections. The young infant manifests neither intelligence nor affection;
but he reveals his life by sounds. When he discerns the source of his joys or sufferings, he
loves, and gesticulates to repulse or to invite. The gestures, which are few at first, become
quite numerous. It is God's art he follows; he is an artist without knowing it.

Oratorical Value of Gesture.

The true aim of art is to move, to interest and to persuade. Emotion, interest and persuasion
are the first terms of art. Emotion is expressed by the voice, by sounds; interest, by language;
persuasion is the office of gesture.

To inflection belongs emotion through the beautiful; to logic, interest through the truth;
to plastic art, persuasion through the good.

Gesture is more than speech. It is not what we say that persuades, but the manner of saying
it. The mind can be interested by speech, it must be persuaded by gesture. If the face bears
no sign of persuasion, we do not persuade.

Why at first sight does a person awaken our sympathy or antipathy? We do not understand why,
but it is by reason of his gestures.

Speech is inferior to gesture, because it corresponds to the phenomena of mind; gesture is
the agent of the heart, it is the persuasive agent.

Articulate language is weak because it is successive. It must be enunciated phrase by phrase;
by words, syllables, letters, consonants and vowels--and these do not end it. That which demands
a volume is uttered by a single gesture. A hundred pages do not say what a simple movement
may express, because this simple movement expresses our whole being. Gesture is the direct
agent of the soul, while language is analytic and successive. The leading quality of mind is
number; it is to speculate, to reckon, while gesture grasps everything by intuition,--sentiment
as well as contemplation. There is something marvelous in this language, because it has relations
with another sphere; it is the world of grace.

An audience must not be supposed to resemble an individual. A man of the greatest intelligence
finding himself in an audience, is no longer himself. An audience is never intelligent; it
is a multiple being, composed of sense and sentiment. The greater the numbers, the less intelligence
has to do. To seek to act upon an individual by gesture would be absurd. The reverse is true
with an audience; it is persuaded not by reasoning, but by gesture.

There is here a current none can control. We applaud disagreeable things in spite of ourselves--things
we should condemn, were they said to us in private. The audience is not composed of intellectual
people, but of people with senses and hearts. As sentiment is the highest thing in art, it
should be applied to gesture.

If the gestures are good, the most wretched speaking is tolerated. So much the better if the
speaking is good, but gesture is the all-important thing. Gesture is superior to each of the
other languages, because it embraces the constituent parts of our being. Gesture includes everything
within us. Sound is the gesture of the vocal apparatus. The consonants and vowels are the gesture
of the buccal apparatus, and gesture, properly so called, is the product of the myological
apparatus.

It is not ideas that move the masses; it is gestures.

We easily reach the heart and soul through the senses. Music acts especially on the senses.
It purifies them, it gives intelligence to the hand, it disposes the heart to prayer. The three
languages may each move, interest and persuade.

Language is a sort of music which moves us through vocal expression; it is besides normal through
the gesture of articulation. No language is exclusive. All interpenetrate and communicate their
action. The action of music is general.

The mind and the life are active only for the satisfaction of the heart; then, since the heart
controls all our actions, gesture must control all other languages.

Gesture is magnetic, speech is not so. Through gesture we subdue the most ferocious animals.

The ancients were not ignorant of this all-powerful empire of gesture over an audience. Therefore,
sometimes to paralyze, sometimes to augment this magic power, orators were obliged to cover
their faces with a mask, when about to speak in public. The judges of the Areopagus well knew
the power of gesture, and to avoid its seductions, they adopted the resource of hearing pleas
only in the darkness.

The sign of the cross made at the opening of a sermon often has great effect upon good Catholics.
Let a priest with his eyes concentric and introspective make deliberately the sign of the cross
while solemnly uttering these words: "In-the-name-of-the-Father;" then let his glance sweep
the audience. What do they think of him? This is no longer an ordinary man; he seems clothed
with the majesty of God, whose orders he has just received, and in whose name he brings them.
This idea gives him strength and assurance, and his audience respect and docility.

Chapter IV.

The Laws of Gesture.

The static treats of the laws of gesture which are six in number, viz.: Priority, retroaction,
the opposition of agents, unity, stability and rhythm.

The Priority of Gesture to Speech.

Gesture must always precede speech. In fact, speech is reflected expression. It must come after
gesture, which is parallel with the impression received. Nature incites a movement, speech
names this movement. Speech is only the title, the label of what gesture has anticipated. Speech
comes only to confirm what the audience already comprehend. Speech is given for naming things.
Gesture asks the question, "What?" and speech answers. Gesture after the answer would be absurd.
Let the word come after the gesture and there will be no pleonasm.

Priority of gesture may be thus explained: First a movement responds to the sensation; then
a gesture, which depicts the emotion, responds to the imagination which colors the sensation.
Then comes the judgment which approves. Finally, we consider the audience, and this view of
the audience suggests the appropriate expression for that which has already been expressed
by gesture.

The basis of this art is to make the auditors divine what we would have them feel.

Every speaker may choose his own stand-point, but the essential law is to anticipate, to justify
speech by gesture. Speech is the verifier of the fact expressed. The thing may be expressed
before announcing its name. Sometimes we let the auditors divine rather than anticipate, gazing
at them in order to rivet their attention. Eloquence is composed of many things which are not
named, but must be named by slight gestures. In this eloquence consists. Thus a smack of the
tongue, a blow upon the hand, an utterance of the vowel u as if one would remove a stain from
his coat. The writer cannot do all this. The mere rendition of the written discourse is nothing
for the orator; his talent consists in taking advantage of a great number of little nameless
sounds.

A written discourse must contain forced epithets and adjectives to illustrate the subject.
In a spoken discourse a great number of adjectives are worse than useless. Gesture and inflection
of the voice supply their place. The sense is not in the words; it is in inflection and gesture.

Retroaction.

We have formulated this general law: The eccentric, normal and concentric expression must correspond
to the sensitive, moral and intellectual state of man. When gesture is concerned, the law is
thus modified: In the sensitive state, the gesture, which is naturally eccentric, may become
concentric, as the orator is passive or active.

He is passive when subject to any action whatever, when he depicts an emotion.

He is agent when he communicates to the audience the expression of his own will or power; in
a word, at all times when he controls his audience.

When the orator assumes the passive rôle, that is, when he reflects, he gazes upon his audience;
he makes a backward (or concentric) movement; when he assumes the active rôle, he makes a forward
(or eccentric) movement. When one speaks to others, he advances; when one speaks to himself,
he recoils a step, his thought centres upon himself.

In the passive state, one loves. But when he loves, he does not move forward. A being who feels,
draws back, and contemplates the object toward which the hand extends. Contemplation makes
the body retroact.

Hence in the passive state, the orator must step backward. In the opposite state he moves forward.
Let us apply this law: A spendthrift officer meets his landlord, whom he has not yet paid,
and greets him with an--"Ah, good day, sir!" What will be his movement? It must be retroactive.
In the joy of seeing a friend again, as also in fright, we start back from the object loved
or hated. Such is the law of nature, and it cannot be ignored.

Whence comes this law? To behold a loved object fully, we must step back, remove to some little
distance from it. Look at a painter admiring his work. It is retroaction at sight of a beloved
person, which has led to the discovery of the phenomena of life, to this triple state of man
which is found in like manner, everywhere: Concentric, eccentric, and normal.

The concentric is the passive state, for when one experiences a deep emotion, he must retroact.
Hence a demonstration of affection is not made with a forward movement. If so, there is no
love. Expiration is the sign of him who gives his heart. Hence there is joy and love. In inspiration
there is retroaction, and, in some sort, distrust. The hand extends toward the beloved object;
if the hand tend toward itself, a love of self is indicated. Love is expressed by a retroactive,
never by a forward movement. In portraying this sentiment the hand must not be carried to the
heart. This is nonsense; it is an oratorical crime. The hand must tend toward the loved being
to caress, to grasp, to reassure or to defend. The hand is carried to the heart only in case
of suffering there.

Take this passage from Racine's Phèdre:

    Dieu--que ne puis-je à l'ombre des fôrets,
    Suivre de l'oeil un char fuyant dans la carrière--

    ("God--may I not, through the dim forest shades,
    With my glance follow a fleet chariot's course.")

Here the actor does not follow affectionately, but with the eye, and then by recoiling and
concentrating his thought upon himself.

In the role of Emilie:

    "He may in falling crush thee 'neath his fall"

at sight of her crushed lover Emilie must recoil in terror, and not seem to add the weight
of her body to that which crushes the victim.

Augustus, on the contrary, may say:

    "I might in falling crush thee 'neath my fall,"

pausing upon a forward movement, because he is here the agent.

Let us note in passing that the passive attitude is the type of energetic natures. They have
something in themselves which suffices them. This is a sort of repose; it is elasticity.

Opposition of Agents.

The opposition of the agents is the harmony of gesture. Harmony is born of contrasts. From
opposition, equilibrium is born in turn. Equilibrium is the great law of gesture, and condemns
parallelism; and these are the laws of equilibrium:

1. The forward inclination of the torso corresponds to the movement of the leg in the opposite
direction.

2. When one arm is added to the weight of the already inclined torso, the other arm must rise
to form a counterpoise.

3. In gazing into a well, the two arms must be drawn backward if the body is equally supported
by the two legs; in like manner the two arms may be carried in front if the torso bends backward.
This is allowable only in the first attitude of the base, or in a similar attitude.

The harmonic law of gesture is the static law par excellence.

It is of childlike simplicity. We employ it in walking; also when we carry a weight in one
hand, the other rises. The law consists in placing the acting levers in opposition, and thus
realizing equilibrium. All that is in equilibrium is harmonized. All ancient art is based upon
this opposition of levers. Modern art, with but few exceptions, is quite the contrary.

Here is an example of the observance of this rule: If the head and arms are in action, the
head must move in opposition to the arms and the hand. If both move in the same direction,
there is a defect in equilibrium, and awkwardness results.

When the arm rises to the head, the head bends forward and meets it half-way. The reverse is
true. Every movement in the hand has its responsive movement in the head. If the head advances,
the hand withdraws. The movements must balance, so that the body may be in equilibrium and
remain balanced.

Here is the difference between ancient and modern art. Let us suppose a statue of Corneille
reading his works. To-day we should pose it with one leg and arm advanced. This is parallelism.
Formerly the leg would have been opposed to this movement of the arm, because there should
be here the expansion of the author toward his work, and this expansion results precisely from
an opposition of levers.

We know the ancient gladiator; we do exactly the opposite from him in fencing.

Modern art makes the man walk with leg and arm parallel. Ancient art would have the leg opposed
to the arm.

It is through opposition that the smile expresses moral sadness. This law of opposition must
be observed in the same member. For example, the hand should be opposed to the arm. Thus we
have magnificent spheroidal movements which are graceful and also have considerable force.
Thus all the harmonies occur in one same whole, in one same truth. In a word, all truths interpenetrate,
and when a thing is true from one point of view, it is so from all.

Number of Gestures.

Many reasons go to prove that gestures need not be multiplied:

A.--We are moved by only one sentiment at a time; hence it is useless to multiply gestures.

B.--But one gesture is needed for the expression of an entire thought; since it is not the
word but the thought that the gesture must announce; if it expressed only the word, it would
be trivial and mean, and also prejudicial to the effect of the phrase.

In these phrases: "What do you seek in the world, happiness? It is not there," that which first
strikes us is the absence of happiness. Gesture must indicate it in advance, and this should
be the dominating movement.

The intelligent man makes few gestures. To multiply gestures indicates a lack of intelligence.
The face is the thermometer of intelligence. Let as much expression as possible be given to
the face. A gesture made by the hand is wrong when not justified in advance by the face. Intelligence
is manifested by the face. When the intelligent man speaks, he employs great movements only
when they are justified by great exaltation of sentiment; and, furthermore, these sentiments
should be stamped upon his face. Without expression of the face, all gestures resemble telegraphic
movements.

C.--The repeated extension of the arms denotes but little intelligence, little suppleness in
the wrist and fingers. The movement of a single finger indicates great finesse.

It is easy to distinguish the man of head, heart and actions. The first makes many gestures
of the head; the second many of the shoulders; the last moves the arms often and inappropriately.

D.--Gesture is allowable only when an ellipse of the word or phrase admits of an additional value.

E.--Effects must not be multiplied; this is an essential precaution. Multiplied movements are
detrimental when a graver movement is awaited.

F.--The orator is free to choose between the rôle of actor or that of mere spectator or narrator.
Neither the one nor the other can be forced upon him. The actor's rôle arises not from intelligence
but simply from instinct. The actor identifies himself with the personages he represents. He
renders all their sentiments. This rôle is the most powerful, but, before making it the object
of his choice, there must be severe study; he must not run the risk of frivolity.

We can dictate to the preacher and mark out his path. He must not be an actor, but a doctor.
Hence his gestures must never represent the impressions of those of whom he speaks, but his
own. Hence he should proportion the number of his gestures to the number of his sentiments.

G.--If the orator would speak to any purpose, he must bring back his discourse to some picture
from nature, some scene from real life.

There must be unity in everything; but a rôle may be condensed in two or three traits; therefore
a great number of gestures is not necessary.

Let it be carefully noted: the expression of the face should make the gesture of the arms forgotten.
Here the talent of the orator shines forth. He must captivate his public in such a way that
his arm gestures will be ignored. He must so fascinate his auditors that they cannot ask the
reason of this fascination, nor remark that he gesticulates at all.

H.--Where there are two gestures in the same idea, one of them must come before the proposition,
the other in its midst.

If there is but one gesture and it precedes the proposition, the term to which it is applied
must be precisely indicated.

For example: Would he be sensible to friendship? Although friendship may in some degree be
qualified as the indirect regimen, gesture should portray it in all its attributes.

Duration of Gesture.

The suspension or prolongation of a movement is one of the great sources of effect. It is in
suspension that force and interest consist. A good thing is worth being kept in sight long
enough to allow an enjoyment of the view.

The orator should rest upon the preceding gesture until a change is absolutely required.

A preoccupied man greets you with a smile, and after you have left, he smiles on, until something
else occurs to divert his mind.

The orator's abstraction should change the face, but not the gesture. If the double change
takes place simultaneously, there will be no unity. The gesture should be retained and the
expression of the face changed.

A variety of effects and inflections should be avoided. While the speaker is under the influence
of the same sentiment, the same inflection and gesture must be retained, so that there may
be unity of style.

Art proposes three things: to move, to interest, to persuade by unity of inflection and gesture.
One effect must not destroy another. Divergence confuses the audience, and leaves no time for
sentiment.

It is well to remember that the stone becomes hollowed by the incessant fall of the drop of
water in the same place.

The Rhythm of Gesture.

Gesture is at the same time melodic, or rather inflective, harmonic and rhythmic. It must embrace
the elements of music, since it corresponds to the soul; it is the language of the soul, and
the soul necessarily includes the life with its diverse methods of expression, and the mind.
Gesture is melodic or inflective through the richness of its forms, harmonic through the multiplicity
of parts that unite simultaneously to produce it. Gesture is rhythmic through its movement,
more or less slow, or more or less rapid.

Gesture is, then, inevitably synthetic, and consequently harmonic; for harmony is but another
name for synthesis.

Each of the inflective, harmonic and rhythmic modes has its peculiar law.

The rhythmic law of gesture is thus formulated:

"The rhythm of gesture is proportional to the mass to be moved."

The more an organ is restrained, the more vehement is its impulse.

This law is based upon the vibration of the pendulum. Great levers have slow movements, small
agents more rapid ones. The head moves more rapidly when the torso and the eye have great facility
of motion. Thus the titillations of the eye are rapid as lightning.

This titillation always announces an emotion. Surprise is feigned if there is no titillation.

For example, at the unexpected visit of a friend there is a lighting up of the eye. Wherefore?
Because the image is active in the imagination. This is an image which passes within ourselves,
which lies in inward phenomena.

So in relation to material phenomena: there is a convergence, a direction of the eyes toward
the object; if the object changes place, the eyes cannot modify their manner of convergence;
they must close to find a new direction, a convergence suited to the distance of the object.

There is never sympathetic vision. The phenomena of the imagination are in the imagination
at a fixed distance. When an image changes place in the idea, it produces a titillation equal
to that which would be produced in the order of material things. For example, let us quote
these lines:

      "At last I have him in my power,
    This fatal foe, this haughty conqueror!
    Through him my captives leave their slavery."

Here the body must be calm; there is a sort of vehemence in the eyes; it will be less in the
head than in the arms. All these movements are made, but the body remains firm. Generally the
reverse takes place; the whole body is moved; but this is wrong.

In these words: "Where are they, these wretches?" there must be great violence in the upper
part of the body, but the step is very calm.

To affect a violent gait is an awkward habit. A modified slowness in the small agents creates
emphasis; if we give them too great facility of movement, the gestures become mean and wretched.

Rhythm is in marvelous accord with nature under the impulse of God.

Importance of the Laws of Gesture.

We never really understand an author's meaning. Every one is free to interpret him according
to his individual instinct. But we must know how to justify his interpretation by gesture.
Principles must aid us in choosing a point of view in accordance with his individual nature;
otherwise incoherence is inevitable. Hence rules are indispensable. But when the law is known,
each applies it in accordance with his own idea.

The author himself cannot read without rules, in such a manner as to convey the ideas he intended
to express. Only through rules can we become free in our interpretation; we are not free without
law, for in this case we are subject to the caprice of some master.

The student of oratory should not be a servile copyist. In the arrangement of his effects,
he must copy, imitate and compose. Let him first reproduce a fixed model, the lesson of the
master. This is to copy. Let him then reproduce the lesson in the absence of the master. This
is to imitate. Finally, let him reproduce a fugitive model. This is to compose.

Thus to reproduce a lesson, to give its analysis and synthesis, is to disjoint, to unite and
to reunite; this is the progressive order of work.

The copying and imitative exercises should be followed by compositions, applying the principles
already known. The orator may be allowed play for his peculiar genius; he may be sublime even
in employing some foolish trick of his art. But whatever he does, he must be guided by fixed rules.

Chapter V.

Of Gesture in Particular.

The Head.

The dynamic apparatus is composed of the head, the torso and the limbs. As in the vocal apparatus,
we have the lever, the impelling force, and the fulcrum.

The dynamic apparatus produces gesture, which renders the moral or normal state; as the voice
expresses inflection and reveals the sensitive state.

The head must be studied under two relations: as the agent of expression through its movements,
and as the centre of attraction; that is, the point of departure or arrival for the different
gestures of the arm.

Let us now apply ourselves to the signification of the movements of the head and eyes, the
face and lips.

The Movements of the Head.

There are two sorts of movements of the head: movements of attitude and fugitive movements.

Movements of Attitude.--The head has nine primary attitudes, from which many others proceed.

In the normal attitude, the head is neither high nor low.

In the concentric attitude the head is lowered; this is the reflective state.

In the eccentric attitude the head is elevated; this is the vital state.

Soldiers and men of robust physique carry the head high.

Here are three genera, each of which gives three species.

The Normal State.

When the head is erect, it is passive and neutral.

The head inclining laterally toward the interlocutor indicates affection.

If in the inverse direction, opposite the interlocutor, sensualism is indicated. This is in
fact retroaction; in the first case we love the soul, in the latter the form.

The Eccentric State.

If the head bends backward it is the passional or vehement state.

The head inclined toward the interlocutor, denotes abandon, confidence.

The head turned away from the interlocutor, denotes pride, noble or base. This is a neutral
expression which says something, but not the whole.

The Concentric State.

The head lowered, that is, inclined forward, denotes the reflective state.

If the head inclines toward the interlocutor, it is veneration, an act of faith in the object
we love.

If the head inclines away from the interlocutor, it is stratagem or suspicion.

All other attitudes of the head are modifications of these. These nine attitudes characterize
states, that is, sentiments, but sentiments which are fugitive. Either of these attitudes may
be affected until it becomes habitual. But there are movements which cannot be habitually affected,
which can only modify types and attitudes of the inflections of the head. These are fugitive
movements.

There are nine inflections or fugitive movements of the head:--

1. If a forward movement, it ends in an upright one, with elevated chin, and indicates interrogation,
hope, appellation, desire.

2. The same movement with the chin lowered, indicates doubt, resignation.

3. A nod of the head, a forward movement, means confirmation, yes, or well.

4. If the movement is brusque forward, it is the menace of a resolute man.

5. The head thrown back means exaltation.

6. If the movement is brusque backward, it is the menace of a weak man.

7. There are rotative inflections from one shoulder to the other; this is impatience, regret.

8. The rotary movement of the head alone signifies negation, that is no.

If the movement ends toward the interlocutor, it is simple negation.

If the movement ends opposite to him, it is negation with distrust.

9. The rotative and forward inflection would denote exaltation.

The sense of this response,--"I do not know," when tidings of a friend are asked, may be divined
by an inflection of the head.

It is well to note how these movements are transmitted from agent to agent.

All movements which severally affect the head, the hand, the body and the leg, may affect the
whole.

Thus the movement of negation is made by the hand. This movement is double. There is negation
with direct resolution, and negation with inverse resolution, which is elliptical. The hand
recoils as the head recoils, and when the head makes the movement of impatience, the hand rises
with the head and says:--"Leave me alone, I do not wish to hear you."

It is curious to see an inflection pass successively from the head to the hand, from the hand
to the eye, from the eye to the shoulders, from the shoulders to the arms, from the arms to
the legs, from the legs to the feet.

For example: Above we have indicated a double menace made by the head. One might transfer this
menace to the hand and say: "You will have a quarrel to settle with me!"

Each agent has its rôle, and this is why they transmit their movements.

When the head has a serious part to play, it communicates an inflective movement to the hand,
which renders it terrible.

A man who menaces with the head is not sure of his aim, but he who menaces with the hand is
sure of striking right. In order to do this, the eye must be firmly fixed, as the eye necessarily
loses its power and accuracy by a movement of the head.

There is great power in the menace communicated to the hand, a power not found in the other
movement. The head-menace is more physical, and the hand-menace more intellectual; in the one
the eye says a great deal, while in the other it says nothing.

The orator cannot always make these gestures with facility. The menace may be elliptical. Then
it must be made by the head, and expressed through the eyes. This is why the speaker gazes
downward as he makes it.

It is the same downward or upward movement which is reproduced when the menace is concentric
or elliptical.

The menace may be made in yet another way. The speaker does not wish to express his opinion,
and for fear of compromising himself with his eyes, he does not gaze at his interlocutor; he
turns aside his glance, and the menace is communicated to the shoulder. This has less strength,
because it is rendered by one of the sensitive agents.

The man who threatens with the shoulder is more passionate; but he is not the agent, he is passive.

A simple menace may be made by the knee. The foot is susceptible of great mobility. A slight
movement quickly changes its significance; in passing from one agent to another, it is modified
by many ellipses.

                      Criterion of the Head Attitudes.

      GENUS.                      SPECIES.

                  1                  3                     2

                 1-II               3-II                  2-II
      II       Ecc. Conc.         Norm. Conc.          Conc. Conc.
              Stratagem or   Reflection.   Veneration.
              cunning.

                 1-III              3-III                 2-III
      III      Ecc. Norm.         Norm. Norm.          Conc. Norm.
             Sensualism. Passive state. Affection.
               Pride.    Vehemence.    Confidence.

These attitudes, being wholly characteristic, cannot be transmitted. They characterize the
special rôle of the agent set in motion, while inflection is universal.

The head alone expresses trouble, dejection.

Dejection is in the head, as firmness is in the reins and exaltation in the shoulders.

All the movements of the head are communicated to all the active organs. The head is always
in opposition to the arms. The head must be turned away from the leg which is advanced.

Men of small brain habitually carry their heads high. The head is lowered in proportion to
the quantity of intelligence.

Examine the criterion for the fixed attitudes of the head.

Of the Eyes.

The eye, in common with all the other agents, has nine primary expressions, three genera and
nine species.

The eye contains three agents: The optic or visual, the palpebral or pupil, and the eyebrow
agent. Each of these has its peculiar sense, and we shall show how they are united.

The optic agent has three direct or convergent glances. The eyes converge toward the object
they examine, at such a point that if the object were there they would squint. A skilled observer
can determine the distance of the object, upon seeing the two eyes.

There is a revolving or divergent glance. If both eyes project in parallel lines, they see
double. A drunken man sees double because the eyes do not converge.

Between these two glances there is the ecstatic or parallel vision; but the object is not so
far away that its distance may not be determined. The convergence is not appreciable. This
is the dreamy expression. We shall here treat of one only, to which we refer the three others.
Let us take the direct glance, passing by the optic agent, since it is direct in all the phenomena
we have to consider.

There are three phenomena in the eyebrow: eccentric, concentric and normal. From these we derive
nine terms. If the eye is normal, it is a passive expression which determines nothing. If,
with the same eye, the eyebrow is eccentric, there is a difference; one part of us tends vehemently
toward something, and the other says: "It is not worth the trouble." The sensitive part aspires,
while the intellect says, "This amounts to nothing."

The concentric eyebrow indicates a mind disconcerted by fatigue or ennui, a contention of one
part of the nature with the other, which resists, and says: "I do not wish to be troubled about
this; it wearies me."

The normal brow and the eccentric eye indicate stupor.

Here there is again contrariety. One part of the being ardently aspires toward some object,
while the other is powerless to aid it.

The eye is purely an intellectual agent, denoting the various states of the mind.

The eccentric eye and the elevated eyebrow denote vehemence. This is an active state that will
become astonishment. Many phenomena will arise and be subordinate to this movement; but it
is vehemence par excellence; it is aspiration.

If the brow lowers vehemently with the eyes open, it is not rage, but a state of mind independent
of everything the senses or the heart can say.

This is firmness of mind, a state of the will independent of every outside influence. It may
be attention, or anger, or many other things.

If the eye is concentric and the eyebrow in the normal state, it is slumber, fatigue.

If the eyebrow is eccentric and the eye concentric, it will represent not indifference only,
but scorn, and after saying, "This thing is worthless," will add, "I protest against it, I
close my eyes."

If both the eye and eyebrow are concentric, there is contention of mind. This is a mind which
seeks but does not possess.

This explanation may be rendered more clear and easier to retain in mind by the following resume:

                           E  Concentric.   Contention of mind.
       Concentric eyebrow  Y  Normal.       Bad humor.
                           E  Eccentric.    Firmness

                           E  Concentric.   Grief.
       Normal eyebrow.     Y  Normal.       Passiveness.
                           E  Eccentric.    Stupor.

                           E  Concentric.   Scorn.
       Eccentric eyebrow.  Y  Normal.       Disdain.
                           E  Eccentric.    Astonishment.

The nine expressions of the eye correspond to each of the nine movements of the head. Thus
the eye may give nine types of affection, nine of pride, nine of sensualism, etc. This gives
eighty-one expressions of the eye. Hence, knowing eighteen elements, we inevitably possess
eighty-one.

The nine expressions of the eye may be verified by the criterion.

As a model, we give the nine expressions of the eye in the subjoined chart.

        GENUS.                        SPECIES.

                          1           3             2
                  Eye eccentric. Eye normal. Eye concentric.

        Eyebrow   Firmness.      Bad humor.  Contention of
          conc.                                  mind.
           II

        Eyebrow    Stupor.     Passive state.    Grief.
           III

        Eyebrow  Inspiration.    Disdain.        Scorn.
            I

For ordinary purposes it is sufficient to understand the nine primary expressions. There are
many others which we merely indicate. In sleep there may be an inclination either way. The
top of the eyebrow may be lifted.

Thus in the concentric state, three types may be noted, and these go to make twenty-seven primary
movements. The lower eyelid may be contracted; the twenty-seven first movements may be examined
with this, which makes 2×27.

A movement of the cheek may contract the eye in an opposite direction, and this contraction
may be total, which makes eighty-one expressions belonging to the normal glance alone.

This direct glance may also be direct on the inferior plane, which makes 2×81; for these are
distinct expressions which cannot be confounded.

This movement could again be an upward one, which would make 3×81.

The movement may be outward and superior, or it may be simply outward; it may also be outward
and inferior. A special sense is attached to each of these movements,--a sense which cannot
be confounded with any of the preceding movements.

By making the same computation for the three glances above noted, we shall have from eight
to nine hundred movements.

All this may appear complicated, but with the key of the primary movements, nothing can be
more simple than this deduction.

The above chart with its exposition of the phases of the eye explains everything. A small eye
is a sign of strength; a large eye is a sign of languor. A small oblique eye (the Chinese eye),
when associated with lateral development of the cranium, and ears drawn back, indicates a predisposition
to murder.

The eye opens only in the first emotion; then it becomes calm, closing gradually; an eye wide
open in emotion, denotes stupidity.

Of the Eyebrows.

There are three thermometers: the eyebrow is the thermometer of the mind; the shoulder is the
thermometer of the life; the thumb is the thermometer of the will.

There is parallelism between the eye and the voice. The voice lowered and the brow lifted,
indicate a desire to create surprise, and a lack of mental depth.

It is very important to establish this parallelism between the movements of the brow and voice.

The lowered brow signifies retention, repulsion: It is the signification of a closed door.
The elevated brow means the open door. The mind opens to let in the light or to allow it to
escape. The eyebrow is nothing less than the door of intelligence. In falling, the voice repels.
The efforts in repulsion and retention are equal.

The inflections are in accord with the eyebrows. When the brows are raised, the voice is raised.
This is the normal movement of the voice in relation to the eyebrow.

Sometimes the eyebrow is in contradiction to the movement of the voice. Then there is always
ellipse; it is a thought unexpressed. The contradiction between these two agents always proves
that we must seek in the words which these phenomena modify, something other than they seem
to say. For instance, when we reply to a story just told us, with this exclamation: "Indeed!"

If the brow and voice are lowered, the case is grave and demands much consideration.

If brow and voice are elevated, the expression is usually mild, amiable and affectionate.

If the voice is raised and the brow lowered, the form is doubtful and suspicious. With the
brow concentric, the hand is repellent.

Both brow and hand concentric denote repulsion or retention; this is always the case with a door.

Both brow and hand eccentric mean inspiration, or allowing departure without concern.

There is homogeneity between the face, the eyebrow and the hand.

The degree and nature of the emotion must be shown in the face, otherwise there will be only
grimace.

The hand is simply another expression of the face. The face gives the hand its significance.
Hand movements without facial expression would be purely automatic. The face has the first
word, the hand completes the sense. There are eighty-one movements of the hand impossible to
the face; hence, without the hand, the face cannot express everything. The hand is the detailed
explanation of what the face has sought to say.

There are expressions of the hand consonant with the facial traits, and others dissonant: this
is the beautiful.

The weak hand and the strong face are the sign of impotence.

The weak hand and the strong face are the sign of perfidy.

The tones of the voice vary according to the expression of the face. The face must speak, it
must have charm.

In laughing, the face is eccentric; a sombre face is concentric.

The face is the mirror of the soul because it is the most impressionable agent, and consequently
the most faithful in rendering the impressions of the soul.

Not only may momentary emotions be read in the expression of the features, but by an inspection
of the conformation of the face, the aptitude, thoughts, character and individual temperament
may be determined.

The difference in faces comes from difference in the configuration of profiles.

There are three primitive and characteristic profiles, of which all others are only derivations
or shades. There is the upright, the concave and the convex profile. Each of these genera must
produce three species, and this gives again the accord of nine.

These different species arise from the direction of the angles, as also from the position of
the lips and nose.

Uprightness responds to the perpendicular profile; chastity, to the concave; sensualism, to
the convex.

Let it be understood that we derogate in no way from the liberty of the man who remains always
master of his will, his emotions and his inclinations.

A criterion of the face is indispensable to the intelligent physiognomist, and as the lips
and nose have much to do with the expression of the face, we offer an unerring diagnosis in
the three following charts:

                Criterion of the Profile of the Lips.

          SPECIES.

Here the profile of the lower lip indicates the genus, and the profile of the upper lip belongs
to the species.

                  Criterion of the Profile of the Nose.

For surety of diagnosis the lips must be taken in unison with the nose and forehead, as may
be seen in the following chart.

Chapter VI.

Of the Torso.

The torso includes the chest, and shares the shoulder movements with the arms.

The Chest.--There are three chest attitudes, eccentric, concentric and normal.

1. If the chest is greatly dilated, this is the eccentric state--the military attitude, the
sign of energy.

2. The normal, when the chest is in a state more homogeneous, less contentious, more sympathetic,
as in the statue of Antinous.

3. The concentric, when the chest is hollow, with the shoulders elevated and inclining forward.

The convex eccentric chest is the sign of the agent, or of him who gives.

The convex concentric chest or the pathetic, is the sign of the sufferer, or of him who receives.

The chest drawn in with the shoulders elevated, is the expression of the sublime.

From these three positions, the eccentric, the concentric and the normal, are derived nine
degrees or species. Thus in each of these genera, the torso is inclined toward the speaker,
or away from him, hence we have three times three, or nine, or the triple accord.

The chest need not be lowered; it is here that all the energy concentrates.

The Shoulders.--Every sensitive, agreeable or painful form is expressed by an elevation of
the shoulders. The shoulders are the thermometer of the sensitive and passional life. If a
man's shoulders are raised very decidedly, we may know that he is decidedly impressed.

The head tells us whether this impression is joyous or sorrowful. Then the species belongs
to the head, and the genus to the shoulder.

If the shoulder indicates thirty degrees, the head must say whether it is warmth or coldness.
The face will specify the nature of the sorrow or joy whose value the shoulders have determined.

The shoulder is one of the great powers of the orator.

By a simple movement of the shoulder, he can make infinitely more impression than with all
the outward gestures which are almost always theatrical, and not of a convincing sort.

The shoulder, we have said, is the thermometer of emotion and of love. The movement is neutral
and suited to joy as well as to sorrow; the eyes and mouth are present to specify it.

The shoulder, like all the agents, has three and hence nine distinct phases.

The torso is divided into three parts: the thoracic, the epigastric and abdominal.

We shall state farther on, the rôle of these three important centres.

Liars do not elevate their shoulders to the required degree, hence the truth or falsity of
a sentiment may be known.

Raphael has forgotten this principle in his "Moses Smiting the Rock." None of his figures,
although joyous, elevate the shoulder.

Chapter VII.

Of The Limbs.

The limbs hold an important place in oratorical action.

The study of the role of the arms and limbs therefore deserves serious attention.

The Arms.

In the arms we distinguish the deltoid or shoulder movement, the inflection of the fore-arm,
the elbow, the wrist, the hand and the fingers.

Inflections of the Fore-Arm.

We have treated of what concerns the shoulder in the chapter upon the torso.

The arm has three movements: an upward and downward vertical movement, and a horizontal one.

These movements derive their significance from the different angles formed by the fore-arm
in relation to the arm. Let us first represent these different angles, and then we will explain
the chart.

All these different angles have their meaning, their absolute significance in affirmation.

The movement at the right angle signifies: To be.

Lower: Perhaps.

Lower still: I doubt if it is so.

Lower: It is improbable.

Lower: It is not.

Lower: It is not possible.

Ascending: This is proven, I have the proof in my hand.

Higher: This is superlatively beautiful.

Higher: It is enchantingly beautiful.

The degree of certainty in the affirmation varies with, the angle which the fore-arm forms
with the arm.

All these modes of affirmation may be applied to negation. For example:

"It is impossible that this should not be. This cannot be."

Thus all states of being, all forms of affirmation, belong to the acuteness or opening of an angle.

The hanging arm signifies depression. The two arms should never extend the same way. If they
follow each other, one should be more advanced than the other. Never allow parallelism. The
elementary gestures of the arms are represented in the foregoing chart.

Of the Elbow.

The elbow has nine movements, three primitive, as genera, and nine derivative, as species.
There are the forward and backward movements of the normal state. There are three degrees of
height, and finally the forward and backward movements of extension.

The elbow movements are relational. The epicondyle is called the eye of the arm.

Man slightly moves the torso, then the shoulder, and finally the elbow.

Among persons who would fain crush others, there is an elbow movement which seems to say, "I
annihilate thee, I am above thee."

The elbow turned outward signifies strength, power, audacity, domination, arrogance, abruptness,
activity, abundance. The elbow drawn inward, signifies impotence, fear, subordination, humility,
passiveness, poverty of spirit.

Modest people have a slight outward movement of the elbow. The humble make an inward movement.
The elbow thrust forward or backward, indicates a yielding character.

These movements should not be taken alone; they must be verified by the torso and the head.
The shoulder characterizes the expression of the elbow movements, just as the elbow verifies
marked exaltation, by the elevation of the shoulder.

It is by these little things that we determine millions of movements and their meaning. We
finally determine and class precisely five million movements of the different agents of the
arm. This would seem enormous; but it is nothing at all; it is childlike simplicity. The elements
being known, the process is always the same. Hence the advantage of possessing a criterion.
With this criterion, we have everything. If we possess nine, we possess twenty millions, which
are no more than nine.

Of the Wrist.

The wrist is a directing instrument for the forearm and the hand.

The wrist has its three movements.

It is eccentric when the extensor muscles are in motion.

It is normal in the horizontal position.

It is concentric when the flexor muscles are in action.

In the concentric position the wrist is in pronation, for the thumb is turned downward; this
is the sign of a powerful will, because the pronator muscles have more power than the flexors.

In the eccentric position the wrist is in supination; that is, the back of the hand is downward;
this is the sign of impotence.

The wrist has also forward and backward movements, either in pronation, in supination, or the
normal state. Thus there are nine phases for the wrist.

It is through the aid of the wrist that the aspects of the hand, placed upon the cube, receive,
as we shall see, their precise signification.

The orator needs great suppleness in wrist movements to give grace to the phases of the hand.

Of the Hand.

Man is perforce painter, poet, inspired dreamer or mystic, and scientist.

He is a painter, to reveal the phenomena of the sensitive life; a poet, to admire the mysteries
of grace; a scientist, to make known the conceptions of the mind. Thus the hand has three presentations,
neither more nor less, to render that which passes in man in the sensitive, moral or intellectual
state.

Let us now examine the three presentations of an open hand: its palmar, dorsal and digital aspect.

The same thing may be expressed by these three presentations, but with shades of difference
in the meaning.

If we say that a thing is admirable, with the palms upward, it is to describe it perfectly.
This is the demonstrative aspect.

If we say the same thing, displaying the back of the hand, it is with the sentiment of impotence.
We have an idea of the thing, but it is so beautiful we cannot express it. This is the mystic
aspect.

If we present the digital extremity, it is as if we said: "I have seen, I have weighed, I have
numbered the thing, I understand it from certain knowledge; it is admirable, and I declare
it so." These are the three aspects: the palmar, dorsal and digital.

Each of these attitudes of the hand may be presented under three forms: the eccentric, normal
and concentric.

Each of these forms as genera, produces three species; this gives the hand nine intrinsic attitudes,
whose neutral signification will be specified and determined by the presentation of the hand
upon the cube.

Let us first take the normal state as genus, and we shall have the normal hand as species in
the normal genus. This will then be the normo-normal attitude.

By presenting the hand in pronation or supination horizontally, without spreading or folding
the fingers, we shall have that attitude which signifies abandon.

Let us now take the eccentric species, still in the normal genus.

Raise the hand somewhat with a slight parting of the fingers, and we have the eccentro-normal
hand, which signifies expansion.

Finally, let us consider the concentric species, still in the normal state.

Present the hand lifeless and you have the concentro-normal attitude, which signifies prostration.

Let us pass on to the concentric genus.

By closing the fingers with the thumb inward upon the middle one, we shall have the normo-concentric
hand, which signifies the tonic or power.

To close the hand and place the thumb outside upon the index finger, signifies conflict. This
is the concentro-concentric hand.

To bend the first joint with the fingers somewhat apart, indicates the eccentro-concentric
hand. This is the convulsive state.

Let us pass on to the eccentric genus.

The fingers somewhat spread, denote the normo-eccentric hand. This is exaltation.

To spread the fingers and fold them to the second joint, indicates the concentro-concentric
hand. This is retraction.

To spread the fingers as much as possible, gives the eccentro-eccentric hand. This is exasperation.

In the subjoined charts we can see an illustration of the different attitudes of the hand.

                       Recapitulation

         II   +--   2   +-- Concentro-concentric.    Conflict.
              |     3 --+   Normo-concentric.        Tonic or power.
              |     1   +-- Eccentro-concentric.     Convulsive.
              |
              |     2   +-- Concentro-normal.        Prostration.
        III --+     3 --+   Normo-normal.            Abandon.
              |     1   +-- Eccentro-normal.         Expansion.
              |
              |     2   +-- Concentro-eccentric.     Retraction.
              |     3 --+   Normo-eccentric.         Exaltation.
          I   +--   1   +-- Eccentro-eccentric.      Exasperation.

    The nine primitive forms of the hand are, as is seen, undetermined.

                 +---------------------------------------------+
                /|                                            /|
               / |                                           / |
              /  |                                          /  |
             /   |                                         /   |
            /    |          UPPER SURFACE.                /    |
           /     |                                       /     |
          /      |             To hold.                 /      |
         /       |                                     /       |
        +---------------------------------------------+        |
        |        |                                    |  O     |
        |  I     |                                    |  U     |
        |  N     |                                    |  T     |
        |  W     |                                    |  W     |
        |  A     |                                    |  A     |
        |  R     |          FRONT SURFACE.            |  R     |
        |  D  T  |                           |        |  D     |
        |     o  |          To retain.       |        |     T  |
        |  L     |                                    |  L  o  |
        |  A  w  |          Limit.         --         |  A     |
        |  T  i  |                                    |  T  b  |
        |  E  t  |          Obtain.          |        |  E  e  |
        |  R  h  |                           |        |  R  l  |
        |  A  d  |          BACK SURFACE.             |  A  o  |
        |  L  r  |      |                             |  L  n  |
        |     a  |      |   To maintain.              |     g  |
        |  S  w  |      |                    |        |  S  .  |
        |  U  .  |          Contain.         |        |  U     |
        |  R     |                           |        |  R     |
        |  F     |                                    |  F     |
        |  A     |                                    |  A     |
        |  C     |                                    |  C     |
        |  E     |                                    |  E     |
        |  .     |                                    |  .     |
        |        +------------------------------------+--------+
        |       /                                     |       /
        |      /             LOWER SURFACE.           |      /
        |     /                                       |     /
        |    /                 To sustain.            |    /
        |   /                                         |   /
        |  /                                          |  /
        | /                                           | /
        |/                                            |/
        +---------------------------------------------+

The hand is raised. Why? For what purpose? The presentation of the hand upon the surfaces of
the cube will decide and specify.

By this presentation the nine movements of the hand correspond with the expressive movements
of the arm.

Take any cube whatever,--a book, a snuff-box, or rather cast your eyes upon the foregoing chart,
and examine it carefully.

There are three directions in the cube: horizontal, vertical and transverse. Hence there are
six faces, anterior, superior, inferior, interno-lateral and externo-lateral.

Of what use are angles and faces? All this is necessary for those who would know the reason
of the sentiments expressed by the hand. There are twenty-seven sorts of affirmation. We give
nine of them with the six faces of the cube.

The Digital Face.

To place the hand, whether eccentric, concentric or normal, upon the upper face of the cube,
is to hold, to protect, to control; it is to say: "I hold this under my protection."

To place the hand upon the external side-face of the cube, signifies to belong; it says: "All
this belongs to me." It is the affirmation of the man who knows, who has had the thing in dispute
under his own eyes, who has measured it, examined it in all its aspects. It is the affirmation
of the connoisseur.

To apply the hand to the inner side of the face is to let go. Here is the sense of this affirmation:
"You may say whatever you will, but I affirm in spite of every observation, in spite of all
objection; I affirm whether or no."

The Back Face.

There are three ways of touching the front face of the cube with the hand.

A.--To touch it with the end of the fingers upward and the thumb inward, is to obtain: "I have
obtained great benefits, I do not know how to express my gratitude." Or rather: "I keep the
object for myself; I do not care to let it be seen." This is the mystic face. Or yet again:
"I contemplate."

B.--To place the hand horizontally on the same face of the cube, is to restrain, or bound.
"Go no farther, if you please; all this belongs to me."

C.--To place the hand upon the same anterior face of the cube, but with the extremities of
the fingers vertically downward, means to retain. It says: "I reserve this for myself." Here,
then, are three aspects for the anterior face of the cube.

The Palmar Face.

A.--To place the lower face of the cube in the hand, is to sustain. It is to say: "I will sustain
you in misfortune."

B.--To apply as much as possible the palm upon the same posterior face of the cube, with the
fingers downward, is to maintain: "I maintain what I have said."

C.--To apply the hand upon the same face with the extremities of the fingers upward, is to
contain, is to show the object--it is to disclose: "I affirm; you cannot doubt me; I open my
heart; behold me!"

There are, then, nine affirmations, which are explained by a mere view of the cube and its faces.

The twelve edges of the cube give a double affirmation; the angles, a triple affirmation. Example
for the edges: To place the hand on the back edge, means: "I protect and I demonstrate."

There are three movements or inflections of the hand which must be pointed out: to hover, to
insinuate, to envelop.

The three rhythmic actions of the hand must not be passed over in silence: to incline, to fall,
to be precipitated.

The aspects of the hands would be simply telegraphic movements, were it not for the inflections
of the voice, and, above all, the expression of the eyes. The expressions of the hand correspond
to the voice. The hands are the last thing demanded in a gesture; but they must not remain
motionless, as (if they were stiff, for instance) they might say more than was necessary.

The hands are clasped in adoration, for it seems as if we held the thing we love, that we desire.

The rubbing of the hands denotes joy, or an eager thirst for action; in the absence of anything
else to caress, we take the hand, we communicate our joy to it.

There is a difference between the caress and the rubbing of the hands.

In the caress, the hand extends eagerly, and passes lightly, undulatingly, for fear of harming.
There is an elevation of the shoulders.

The hand is an additional expression of the face. The movement must begin with the face, the
hand only completes and interprets the facial expression. The head and hand cannot act simultaneously
to express the same sentiment. One could not say no with head and hands at the same time. The
head commands and precedes the movement of the hand.

The eyes, and not the head, may be parallel with the hand and the other agents.

The hand with its palm upward may be caressing, if there is an elevation of the eyebrow; repellent
with the eyebrow concentric.

The waving hand may have much sense, according to the expression of the face.

The eye is the essential agent, the hand is only the reverberatory agent; hence it must show
less energy than the eye.

Of the Fingers.

Each finger has its separate function, but it is exclusive of the great expressions which constitute
the accords of nine. These are interesting facts, but they do not spring naturally from the
fountain of gesture. They are more intellectual than moral.

In a synthetic action all the fingers converge. A very energetic will is expressed by the clenched
fist.

In dealing with a fact in detail, as we say: "Remark this well," all the fingers open to bid
us concern ourselves only with the part in dispute. This is analysis; it is not moral, it is
intellectual.

If we speak of condensation we close the hand. If we have to do with a granulated object, we
test it with the thumb and index finger.

If it is carneous, we touch it with the thumb and middle finger.

If the object is fluid, delicate, impressionable, we express it by the third finger.

If it is pulverized, we touch it with the little finger.

We change the finger as the body is solid, humid, delicate, or powdery.

The orator who uses the fingers in gesticulation, gives proof of great delicacy of mind.

Of the Legs.

The legs have nine positions which we call base attitudes.

We shall give a detailed description, summing up in a chart of the criterion of the legs at
the end of this section.

First Attitude.--This consists in the equal balance of the body upon its two legs. It is that
of a child posed upon its feet, neither of which extends farther than the other. This attitude
is normal, and is the sign of weakness, of respect; for respect is a sort of weakness for the
person we address. It also characterizes infancy, decay.

Second Attitude.--In this attitude the strong leg is backward, the free one forward. This is
the attitude of reflection, of concentration, of the strong man. It indicates the absence of
passions, or of concentred passions. It has something of intelligence;

it is neither the position of the child nor of the uncultured man. It indicates calmness, strength,
independence, which are signs of intelligence. It is the concentric state.

Third Attitude.--Here the strong leg is forward, the free leg backward. This is the type of
vehemence. It is the eccentric attitude.

The orator who would appear passive, that is, as experiencing some emotion, or submitting to
some action, must have a backward pose as in figure 2.

If, on the contrary, he would communicate to his audience the expression of his will or of
his own thought, he must have a forward poise as in figure 3.

Fourth Attitude.--Here the strong leg is behind, as in the second attitude, but far more apart
from the other and more inflected.

This is very nearly the attitude of the fencing master, except the position of the foot, which
is straight instead of being turned outward.

This is a sign of the weakness which follows vehemence.

Natural weakness is portrayed in figure 1; sudden weakness in figure 4.

Fifth Attitude.--This is necessitated by the inclination of the torso to one side or the other.
It is

a third to one side. It is a passive attitude, preparatory to all oblique steps. It is passing
or transitive, and ends all the angles formed by walking. It is in frequent use combined with
the second.

Sixth Attitude.--This is one-third crossed. It is an attitude of great respect and ceremony,
and is effective only in the presence of princes.

Seventh Attitude.--This is the first position, but the legs are farther apart. The free limb
is turned

to one side; both limbs are strong. This denotes intoxication, the man overwhelmed with astonishment,
familiarity, repose. It is a double fifth.

Eighth Attitude.--This is the second, with limbs farther apart. It is the alternative attitude.
The body faces one of the two legs. It is alternative from the fact that it ends in the expression
of two extreme and opposite sentiments; that is, in the third or the fourth. It serves for
eccentricity with reticence, for menace and jealousy. It is the type of hesitation. It is a
parade attitude. At the same time offensive and defensive, its aspect easily impresses and
leaves the auditor in doubt. What is going to happen? What sentiment is going to arise from
this attitude which must have its solution either in the third or fourth?

Ninth Attitude,--This is a stiff second attitude, in which the strong leg and also the free
one are equally rigid. The body in this attitude bends backward; it is the sign of distrust
and scorn.

The legs have one aspect. If, in the second, the strong leg advances slowly to find the other,
it is the tiger about to leap upon his prey; if, on the contrary, the free leg advances softly,
the vengeance is retarded.

The menace made in figure 3, with inclination of the head and agitation of the index finger,
is that of a valet who wishes to play some ill turn upon his master; for with the body bent
and the arm advanced, there is no intelligence. But it is ill-suited to vengeance, because
that attitude should be strong and solid, with the eye making the indication better than the
finger.

The semeiotic is the science of signs, and hence the science of the form of gesture. Its object
is to give the reason for the forms of gesture according to the types that characterize it,
the apparatus that modifies it, and the figures that represent it.

There are three sorts of types in man: constitutional or formal, fugitive or passional, and
habitual.

The constitutional type is that which we have at birth.

The passional type is that which is reproduced under the sway of passion.

The habitual types are those which, frequently reproduced, come to modify even the bones of
the man, and give him a particular constitution.

Habit is a second nature, in fact, a habitual movement fashions the material and physical being
in such a manner as to create a type not inborn, and which is named habitual.

To recognize constitutional types, we study the movements of the body, and the profound action
which the habit of these movements exercises upon the body; and, as the type produced by these
movements is in perfect analogy with the formal, constitutional types, we come through this
analogy to infer constant phenomena from the passional form. Thus all the formal types are
brought back to the passional types.

Passional types explain habitual types, and these last explain constitutional types. Thus,
when we know the sum of movements possible to an organ, when we know the sense of it, we arrive
at that semeiotic through which the reason of a form is perfectly given.

Of Gesture Relative to its Modifying Apparatus.

Every gesture places itself in relation with the subject and the object.

It is rare that a movement tending toward an object does not touch the double form. Thus, in
saying that a thing is admirable, we start from a multitude of physical centres whose sense
we are to determine. When this sense is known, understanding the point of departure, we understand
still better that of arrival.

This division, which is not made at random, is reproduced in the subjoined diagram.

1 represents the vital expression; 2, the intellectual; 3, the moral. We divide the face into
three zones: the genal,[4] buccal, and frontal.

The expression is physical, moral and intellectual.

In the posterior section of the head we have the occipital, parietal and temporal zones. The
life is in the occiput, the soul in the parietal zone, and the mind holds the temporal region
near the forehead as its inalienable domicile.

The chest is divided into the thoracic centre for the mind, into the epigastric for the soul,
and into the abdominal for the life.

The arm is divided into three sections: the deltoid, brachial and carpal.

This division is a rational one. Let us suppose this exclamation: "It is admirable!" Some say
it starting from the shoulder, others from the chest, others from the abdominal focus. These
are three very distinct modes. There is more intelligence when the movement is from the thoracic
centre. This concerns the honor, the dignity.

When the movement is from the epigastrium, it is moral in a high degree. For example: "This
is beautiful! It is admirable! I know not why, but this gives me pleasure!"

The movement from the abdomen indicates sensuality, good nature, and stupidity.

The movement is the same with the head. In emotion it proceeds from the chin; it is the life
movement, it is instinct. That from the cheeks, indicates sentiments, the most noble affections.

Carrying the hand to the forehead indicates intelligence. Here we seek relief from embarrassment,
in the other head movements we do not seek it. The one is a mental, the others are purely physical
efforts. In the latter case one becomes violent and would fain give blows with his fist.

An infinite number of movements proceed from these various seats.

We have now reached the semeiotic standpoint, that of these very clear plans, the very starting
point of gesture.

The articular centres of the arms are called thermometers: the wrist, that of the organic physical
life; the shoulder, that of the sensitive life; and the elbow, that of the relative life.

The thumb has much expression; drawn backward it is a symbol of death, drawn forward it is
the sign of life. Where there is abundance of life, the thumb stands out from the hand. If
a friend promises me a service with the thumb drawn inward, he deceives. If with the thumb
in the normal state, he is a submissive but not a devoted friend. He cannot be very much counted
upon. If the thumb stands outward, we may rely upon his promise.

We still find life, soul and mind in each division of the body.

There are also a buccal, an occipital and an abdominal life.

The body of man, with all its active and attractive foci, with all its manifestations, may
be considered an ellipse.

These well-indicated divisions may be stated in an analytic formula:

                         +-- LIFE: Occipital. -+
                         |-- MIND: Temporal.   |-
                         |-- SOUL: Parietal.  -+
                         |-- MIND: Frontal.   -+ --+
                         |-- SOUL: Buccal.     |-  |
                         |-- LIFE: Genal.     -+   |
                        / -- MIND: Thoracic.  -+   |
    Attractive centres.-  -- SOUL: Epigastric. |-  |
                        \ -- LIFE: Abdominal. -+    \
                         |-- LIFE: Shoulders. -+     - Expressive centres.
                         |-- SOUL: Elbows.     |-   /
                         |-- MIND: Wrists.    -+   |
                         |-- LIFE: Thigh.     -+   |
                         |-- SOUL: Knee.       |-  |
                         +-- MIND: Foot.      -+ --+

This is the proper place to fix the definition of each division by some familiar illustration.

Let us take an individual in a somewhat embarrassed situation. He is a gentleman who has been
overcome by wine. We see him touching the temporal bone, or the ear, as if to seek some expedient:
the strategic mind is there.

Let us begin with the descending gamut, and let the hand pass over all the divisions of the
attractive centres.

At the occiput: Here is an adventure! I have really had too strong a dose of them!

At the parietal bone: What a shame!

At the temporal bone: What will the people say of me?

At the forehead: Reason however tells me to pause.

At the buccal zone: How shall I dare reappear before those who have seen me in this state!

At the genal zone: But they did serve such good wine!

At the breast: Reason long ago advised temperance to me.

At the epigastrium: I have so many regrets every time I transgress!

At the abdomen: The devil! Gourmandism! I am a wretched creature!

The same illustrations may be reproduced in the rising scale.

When the parietals are touched, the idea and the sentiment are very elevated. As the foci rise,
they become more exalted.

Let this be considered from another point of view. We shall reproduce gratitude by touching
all the centres.

They have been centres of attraction, we shall render them points of departure.

"I thank you!" The more elevated the movements, the more nobility there is in the expression
of the sentiment. The exaltation is proportional to the section indicated.

The posterior region is very interesting. There are three sorts of vertebrae: cervical, dorsal
and lumbar.

This apparatus may first be considered as a lever. But taking the vertical column alone, we
shall have twenty-four special and distinct keys whose action and tonality will be entirely
specific. From these twenty-four vertebrae proceed the nervous plexi, all aiding a particular
expression; so that the vertebral column forms the keys of the sympathetic human instrument.

If the finger is cut, there is a special emotion in one place of the vertebral column.

If the finger is crushed by the blow of a hammer, the emotion will affect a special vertebra.

The nose is one of the most complex and important agents.

There are here nine divisions to be studied. (See page 82.)

Chapter IX.

Of Gesture in Relation to the Figures which Represent It.

Gesture through its inflections may reproduce all the figures of geometry. We shall confine
ourselves to a description of the primary and most usual imitative inflections.

These inflections comprise three sorts of movements affected by each gesture, which usually
unite and constitute a synthetic form. These three movements agree with the three primary actions
which characterize the manifestations of the soul, the mind and the life. These are direct,
circular and oblique inflections.

The flexor movements are direct, the rotary movements circular, the abductory movements oblique.
The sum of these movements constitutes nine co-essential terms, whose union forms the accord
of nine.

There are rising, falling and medium inflections.

Gesture does everything that the voice does in rising. Hence there is great affinity between
the voice and the arms. Vocal inflection is like the gestures of the blind; in fact, with acquaintance,
one may know the nature of the gesture from the sound of the voice.

We exalt people by a circle. We say that a thing is beautiful, noble, grand--making circles
which grew higher and broader as the object is more elevated.

We choose the circle for exalting and caressing, because the circle is the most agreeable form
to touch and to caress. For example, an ivory ball.

This form applies to all that is great.

For God there is no circle, there can be none. But we outline a portion of an immense circle,
of which we can touch but one point. We indicate only the inner periphery of a circle it is
impossible to finish, and then retrace our steps.

When the circle is made small, we make it with one, two, three or four fingers, with the hand,
with the arm. If the circle is vast as can be made with the arms, it is homogeneous.

But a small circle made with the arm will express stupidity. Thus we say of a witty man: "This
is a witty man," employing the fingers.

Stupidity wishing to simulate this, would make a broad movement.

Let us take the fable of Captain Renard as an example of this view of the circle.

I depict the cunning nature of this captain with my fingers. Without this he would not be a
captain; but at most a corporal.

      --"He went in company
    With his friend He-Goat of the branching horns.
    The one could see no farther than his nose;
    The other was past master in deceit."

As they go along, the fox relates all his exploits to the goat, and the goat surprised, and
wishing an end of the recital, sees fit to make a gesture, as he says:

    "I admire people full of sense like you."

In making the small circle, he employs not only the fingers, but the arm, the shoulder, the
whole body. He is an imbecile. He wastes too much effort in making a small circle.

Let us take a situation from an opera. When Robert enters and sees Isabella, he says of her:

    "This peaceful sleep, this lull of every sense,
    Lends a yet sweeter charm to this young face."

The gesture is in the form of a geometrical figure.

In another place, Robert says:

    "Thy voice, proud beauty, few can understand."

Here a spheroidal and then a rectangular movement must be made. We close the door. "Her voice
will be understood by me, alone." He might say: "Thy voice, proud beauty, will not be understood.
It will be elevated for me, and not for others."

Every sentiment has its form, its plastic expression, and as its form is more or less elaborated,
we may judge of the elevation of the speaker's thought. If we could stereotype gesture, we
might say: "This one has the more elevated heart, that one the least elevated; this one in
the matter, that one in the spirit of his discourse."

All gestures may be very well delineated. An orator gesticulating before the public, resembles
a painter who pencils outlines and designs upon a wall.

This reproduction of the figures of gesture is called Chorography. We give in the subjoined
chart some types of gesture. These are a few flowers culled from a rich garden.

To express sensual grace the gesture takes the downward spheroidal form. The virtuous form
would be upward.

If we wish to express many attractive things, we make many spheroidal gestures.

What is called the culminating point of the gesture, must not be forgotten. This is a ring
in the form of the last stroke of the German letter D, which is made by a quick, electric movement
of the wrist.

We refer the student to the close of the volume, for a model of exercises comprising a series
of gestures which express the most eloquent sentiments of the human heart.

This exercise in gesture has two advantages: it presents all the interest of the most fascinating
drama, and is the best means of gaining suppleness by accustoming ourselves to the laws of gesture.

The vertical line 1 expresses affirmation. The horizontal line 2 expresses negation. The oblique
line 3 rejects despicable things. The oblique line 4 rejects things which oppress us, of which
we would be freed.

5. The quarter-circle, whose form recalls that of the hammock, expresses well-being, happiness,
confidence.

6. The curvilinear eccentric quarter-circle expresses secrecy, silence, possession, domination,
stability, imposition, inclusion.

7. The curvilinear outside quarter-circle expresses things slender, delicate (in two ways);
the downward movement expresses moral and intellectual delicacy.

8. The outside quarter-circle expresses exuberance, plenitude, amplitude, generosity.

9. The circle which surrounds and embraces, characterizes glorification and exaltation.

Man reveals his life through more than four millions of inflections ere he can speak or gesticulate.
When he begins to reason, to make abstractions, the vocal apparatus and gesture are insufficient;
he must speak, he must give his thought an outside form so that it may be appreciated and transmitted
through the senses. There are things which can be expressed neither by sound nor gesture. For
instance, how shall we say at the same time of a plant: "It is beautiful, but it has no smell."
Thought must then be revealed by conventional signs, which are articulation. Therefore, God
has endowed man with the rich gift of speech.

Speech is the sense of the intelligence; sound the sense of the life, and gesture that of the
heart.

Soul communicates with soul only through the senses. The senses are the condition of man as
a pilgrim on this earth. Man is obliged to materialize all: the sensations through the voice,
the sentiments through gesture, the ideas through speech. The means of transmission are always
material. This is why the church has sacraments, an exterior worship, chants, ceremonies. All
its institutions arise from a principle eminently philosophical.

Speech is formed by three agents: the lips, the tongue and the soft-palate.

It is delightful to study the special rôle of these agents, the reason of their movements.

They have a series of gestures that may be perfectly understood. Thus language resembles the
hand, having also its gesture.

Chapter II.

Elements of Articulate Language.

Every language is composed of consonants and vowels. These consonants and vowels are gestures.
The value of the consonant is the gesture of the thing expressed. But as gesture is always
the expression of a moral fact, each consonant has the intrinsic character of a movement of
the heart. It is easy to prove that the consonant is a gesture. For example, in articulating
it, the tongue rises to the palate and makes the same movement as the arm when it would repel
something.

The elements of all languages have the same meaning. The vowels correspond directly to the
moral state.

There is diversity of language because the things we wish to express vary from difference in
usage and difference of manner and climate. What we call a shoe, bears among northern people
a name indicating that it protects the feet from the cold; among southern people it protects
the feet from the heat. Elsewhere the shoe protects the feet against the roughness of the soil;
and in yet other places, it exists only as a defensive object--a weapon.

These diverse interpretations require diverse signs. This does not prove the diversity of language,
but the diversity of the senses affected by the same object.

Things are perceived only after the fashion of the perceiver, and this is why the syllables
vary among different peoples.

Nevertheless, there is but one language. We find everywhere these words: I an active personality,
me</I> a passive personality, and mine an awarding personality. In every language we find the
subject, the verb and the adjective.

Every articulate language is composed of substantive, adjective and copulative ideas.

All arts are found in articulation. Sound is the articulation of the vocal apparatus; gesture
the articulation of the dynamic apparatus; language the articulation of the buccal apparatus.
Therefore, music, the plastic arts and speech have their origin and their perfection in articulation.

It is, then, of the utmost importance to understand thoroughly the elements of speech, which
is at the same time a vocalization and a dynamic. Without this knowledge no oratorical art
is possible.

Let us now hasten to take possession of the riches of speech.

Chapter III.

The Oratorical Value of Speech.

The privilege of speech may be considered under a double aspect, in itself and in its relations
to the art of oratory.

1. In Itself.--Speech is the most wonderful gift of the Creator. Through speech man occupies
the first rank in the scale of being. It is the language of the reason, and reason lifts man
above every creature. Man through speech incarnates his mind to unite himself with his fellow-men,
as the Son of God was incarnated to unite with human nature; like the Son of God who nourishes
humanity with his body in the eucharist, so man makes his speech understood by multitudes who
receive it entire, without division or diminution.

Eternal thanks to God for this ineffable gift, so great in itself, of such value in the art
of oratory!

2. What is the oratorical value of speech? In oratorical art, speech plays a subordinate but
indispensable rôle.

Let us examine separately the two members of this proposition.

A.--In the hierarchy of oratorical powers, speech comes only in the third order. In fact, the
child begins to utter cries and to gesticulate before he speaks.

The text is only a label. The sense lies not in speech, but in inflection and gesture. Nature
institutes a movement, speech names the movement. Writing is a dead letter.

Speech is only the title of that which gesture has announced; speech comes only to confirm
what is already understood by the auditors.

We are moved in reading, not so much by what is said, as by the manner of reading. It is not
what we hear that affects us, but that which we ourselves imagine.

An author cannot fully express his ideas in writing; hence the interpretation of the hearer
is often false, because he does not know the writer.

It is remarkable, the way in which we refer everything to ourselves. We must needs create a
semblance of it. We are affected by a discourse because we place the personage in a situation
our fancy has created. Hence it happens that we may be wrong in our interpretation, and that
the author might say: "This is not my meaning."

In hearing a symphony we at once imagine a scene, we give it an aspect; this is why it affects us.

A written discourse requires many illustrative epithets; in a spoken discourse, the adjectives
may be replaced by gesture and inflection.

Imitation is the melody of the eye, inflection is the melody of the ear. All that strikes the
eye has a sound; this is why the sight of the stars produces an enchanting melody in our souls.

Hence in a discourse, speech is the letter, and it is inflection and gesture which give it
life. Nevertheless:--

B.--The rôle of speech, although subordinate, is not only important, but necessary. In fact,
human language, as we have said, is composed of inflection, gesture and speech.

Language would not be complete without speech. Speech has nothing to do with sentiment, it
is true, but a discourse is not all sentiment; there is a place for reason, for demonstration,
and upon this ground gesture has nothing to do; the entire work here falls back upon speech.

Speech is the crown of oratorical action; it is this which gives the final elucidation, which
justifies gesture. Gesture has depicted the object, the Being, and speech responds: God.

Chapter IV.

The Value of Words in Phrases.

Expression is very difficult. One may possess great knowledge and lack power to express it.
Eloquence does not always accompany intellect. As a rule, poets do not know how to read what
they have written. Hence we may estimate the importance of understanding the value of the different
portions of a discourse. Let us now examine intellectual language in relation to intensity
of ideas.

There are nine species of words, or nine species of ideas. The article need not be counted,
since it is lacking in several languages. It is the accord of nine which composes the language,
and which corresponds to the numbers. Every word has a determinate, mathematical value.

As many unities must be reckoned on the initial consonant as there are values in the word.

Thus the subject has less value than the attribute.

The attribute has a value of six degrees and represents six times the intensity of the subject.
Why? Because God has willed that we should formulate our idea with mathematical intensities.

The value rests only upon the initial consonant of the word. Words have only one expressive
portion, that is, the initial consonant. It receives the whole value, and is the invariable
part of the word. It is the root. Words are transformed in passing from language to language,
and nevertheless retain their radical.

How shall we say that a flower is charming?

Do not demand of intensity of sound a value it does not possess. It suffices to await the articulation
of the consonant.

The most normal phenomena remain true to mechanical laws. The mere articulation of the word
expresses more than all the vocal and imitative effects that can be introduced.

Most speakers dwell upon the final word; this habit is absolutely opposed to the nature of
heart movements. This school habit is hard to correct, and if Rachel became a great artiste,
it was because she did not have this precedent.

The subject represents one degree; it is the weakest expression.

The verb represents two degrees; the attribute six. Let us illustrate the manner of passing
from one to six as follows:

A rustic comes to visit you upon some sort of business. This man has a purpose. As you are
a musician he is surprised by his first sight of a piano. He says to himself: "What is this?
It is a singular object."

It is neither a table nor a cupboard. He now perceives the ivory keys and other keys of ebony.
What can this mean? He stands confounded before an instrument entirely new to him. If it were
given to him, he would not know what to do with it; he might burn it. The piano interests him
so much that he forgets the object of his visit.

He sees you arrive. You occupy for him the place of the verb in relation to the object which
interests him. He passes from this object to you. Although you are not the object which engrosses
him, there is a progression in the interest, because he knows that through you he will learn
what this piece of furniture is. "Tell me what this is!" he cries.

You strike the piano; it gives forth an accord. O heavens, how beautiful! He is greatly moved,
he utters many expressions of delight, and now he would not burn the instrument.

Here is a progression. At first the piece of furniture interests him; then its owner still
more; at last the attributes of the piano give it its entire value.

But why six degrees upon the last term? The value of a fact comes from its limitation; the
knowledge of an idea also proceeds from its limitation. A fact in its general and vague expression,
awakens but little interest. But as it descends from the genus to the species, from the species
to the individual, it grows more interesting. It comes more within our capacity. We do not
embrace the vast circle of a generic fact.

Let us take another proposition: "A flower is pleasing."

                       1            2        3456
        --------- Flower           is      pleasing ------
       |  |   |                                       |   |
       |  |   |        3                       7      |   |
       |  |   +-- of the forest               very ---+   |
       |  |                                               |
       |  |            4                                  |
       |  +--------- this                +----------------+
       |                                 |
       |               5            8 ---+
       +----------- little     +-- but
                               |
                          +----+
                       1  |         2         6             9
                       it-+         is       faded         Oh!

The word flower alone says nothing to the imagination. Is it a rose or a lily of the valley?
The expression is too vague. When the idea of genus is modified by that of species, we are
better satisfied.

Let us say: "The flower of the forest." This word forest conveys an idea to the mind. We can
make our bouquet. We think of the lily of the valley, of the violet, the anemone, the periwinkle.
This restriction gives value to the subject. Forest is more important than the verb which does
not complete the idea, and less important than pleasing. Therefore we place 3 upon forest,
and shall rank pleasing from 3 to 4, since it closes the assertion.

If we individualize by the word this, we augment the value by giving actuality to the word
flower. This has more value than the forest, because it designates the subject. Hence this
has four degrees.

As pleasing forms the very essence of our proposition, we are obliged to give it five degrees.

The idea is still somewhat vague. If I specify it still further by saying this little flower,
little has a higher value than all the other words.

What value shall we give this adjective? We have reached five, but have not yet fully expressed
the idea which impresses us. Little must therefore have six degrees.

This is the sole law for all the languages of the world. There are no two ways of articulating
the words of a discourse. When we learn a discourse by heart in order to deliver it, and take
no account of the value of the terms, the divine law is reversed.

Now, if we could introduce an expression here, which would at once enhance the value of the
word pleasing, it would evidently be stronger than all the others. In fact, if the way in which
a thing is pleasing can be expressed, it is evident that this manner of being pleasing will
rise above the word itself.

We do not know the proportion in which the flower is pleasing. We will say that it is very
pleasing. This adverb gives the word pleasing a new value. It is in turn modified. If we should
say immensely, or use any other adverb of quantity, the value would remain the same. It would
still be a modification. Thus, when we say of God that he is good, immense, infinite, there
is always a limitation attached to the idea of God,--a limitation necessary to our nature.
For God is not good in the way we understand goodness or greatness; but our finite minds need
some expression for our idea.

We see the word pleasing modified in turn, and the term which modifies it, is higher than itself.
Very pleasing,--what value shall we give it? We can give it no more than seven here.

A single word may obliterate the effect produced by all these expressions. A simple conjunction
may be introduced which will entirely modify all we have taken pains to say. It is a but. But
is an entire discourse. We no longer believe what has been said hitherto, but what follows
this word. This conjunction has a value of eight degrees, a value possible to all conjunctions
without exception. It sums up the changes indicated by subsequent expressions, and embraces
them synthetically. It has, then, a very great oratorical value.

The Conjunction.

1. We refer here only to conjunctions in the elliptical sense. The conjunction is an ellipse,
because it is the middle term between two members of the sentence which are the extremes; it
recalls what has just been said, and indicates what is to come. Considered in itself, the word
and, when elliptical, embraces what has just been said, and what is about to be said. All this
is founded upon the principle that the means are equal to the extremes.

2. The copulative or enumerative conjunctions, have only two degrees. We see that a conjunction
is not elliptical when, instead of uniting propositions, it unites only ideas of the same character.

3. Determinative conjunctions have only three degrees. For example: "It is necessary that I
should work." That has only three degrees.

4. The values indicated can be changed only by additional values justified by gesture. Thus
in the phrase: "This medley of glory and honor,"--the value of the word medley can and must
be changed; but a gesture is necessary, for speech is only a feeble echo of gesture. Only gesture
can justify a value other than that indicated in this demonstration. This value is purely grammatical,
but the gesture may give it a superlative idea, which we call additional value. The value of
consonants may vary in the pronunciation according to their valuation by the speakers.

More or less value is given to the degrees noted and to be noted, as there is more or less
emotion in the speaker. This explains why a gesture, which expresses an emotion of the soul,
justifies changing the grammatical value in the pronunciation of consonants.

5. Even aside from additional values, the gesture must always precede the articulation of the
initial consonant. Otherwise to observe the degree would be supremely ridiculous. The speaker
would resemble a skeleton, a statue. The law of values becomes vital only through gesture and
inflection. Stripped of the poetry of gesture and inflection, the application of the law is
monstrous.

To place six degrees upon pleasing without gesture, is abominable.

We now understand the spirit of gesture, which is given to man to justify values. It is for
him to decide whether the proposition is true or not. If we deprive our discourse of gestures,
no way is left to prove the truth of values. Thus gesture is prescribed by certain figures,
and we shall now see from a proposition, how many gestures are needed, and to what word the
gesture should be given.

The Conjunction Continued--Various Examples.

The degree of value given to the conjunction, may be represented by the figure 8.

Let us justify this valuation by citing these two lines of Racine:

    "The wave comes on, it breaks, and vomits
      'neath our eyes,
    Amid the floods of foam, a monster
      grim and dire."

The ordinary reader would allow the conjunction and to pass unperceived, because the word is
not sonorous, and we accord oratorical effects only to sonorous words. But the man who sees
the meaning fully, and who adds and, has said the whole. The other words are important, but
everything is implied in this conjunction.

Racine has not placed and here to disjoin, but to unite.

We give another example of the conjunction:

Augustus says to Cinna:

    "Take a chair Cinna, and in all things heed
    Strictly the law that I lay down for thee."

Let us suppress the isolation and silence of the conjunction, and there is no more color.

Augustus adds:

    "Hold thy tongue captive, and if silence deep
    To thy emotion do some violence"--

Suppress the silence and isolation of the conjunction and, and how poor is the expression!

In the fable of "The Wolf and the Dog:"

    "Sire wolf would gladly have attacked and slain
    him, but it would have been necessary to give battle,
    and it was now almost morning."

The entire significance lies in the silence which follows the conjunctions.

We speak of a sympathetic conjunction, and also of one denoting surprise or admiration; but
this conjunction differs from the interjection, only in this respect: it rests upon the propositions
and unites its terms. Like the interjection, it is of a synthetic and elliptic nature; it groups
all the expressions it unites as interjectives. It is, then, from this point of view, exclamative.

In the fable of "The Wolf and the Lamb," the wolf says:

    "This must be some one of your own race, for
    you would not think of sparing me, you shepherds
    and you dogs."

Here is an interjective conjunction. Suppress the complaint after for, and there is no more
effect. The conjunction is the soul of the discourse.

In the exclamation in "Joseph Sold by his Brethren," we again find an interjective conjunction.

    "Alas.......... and
    The ingrates who would sell me!"

Here the conjunction and yields little to the interjection alas. It has fully as much value.

The Interjection in Relation to its Degree of Value.

The interjection has 9 degrees; this is admirably suited to the interjection, an elliptical
term which comprises the three terms of a proposition. In summing up the value of a simple
proposition, we have (a noteworthy thing) the figure 9. This gives the accord of 9. The subject
1, the verb 2, and 6 upon the attribute, equal 9. Thus the equation is perfect.

Gesture is the rendering of the ellipse. Gesture is the elliptical language given to man to
express what speech is powerless to say.

We have spoken of additional figures. Each of these figures supposes a gesture. There is a
gesture, an imitative expression wherever there is an additional figure. An ellipse in a word,
such as is met with in the conjunction and the interjection, demands a gesture.

9 is a neutral term which must be sustained by gesture and inflection. Gesture would be the
inflection of the deaf, inflection the gesture of the blind. The orator should, in fact, address
himself to the deaf as well as to the blind. Gesture and inflection should supplement physical
and mental infirmities, and God in truth has given man this double means of expression. There
is also a triple expression, which is double in view of this same modification of speech. Let
us suppose this proposition:

"How much pain I suffer in hearing!"

According to the rules laid down, we have 3 upon pain, 6 upon suffer, and 6 again upon hearing.

It is said that Talma brought out the intensity of his suffering by resting on the word pain.
This was wrong. We should always seek the expression equivalent to that employed, to attain
a certain value.

If, instead of the determinate conjunction that, we should have how much (combien), this would
evidently be the important word. This word has an elliptical form. It evidently belongs to
a preceding proposition. It means: "I could not express all that I suffer." Then 6 must be
placed upon how much and not upon pain.

But the figure 6 here is a thermometer which indicates a degree of vitality; it does not express
the degree of vitality; that is reserved for gesture. We need not ask what degree this can
give; its office is to express--and this is a good deal--a value mechanical and material, but
very significant. A reversion of values may constitute a falsehood. Stage actors are sometimes
indefinably comic in this way.

A Resumé of the Degrees of Value.

To crown this unprecedented study upon language, we give in a table, a resumé of the different
degrees of value in the various parts of a discourse, relative to the initial consonant.

     The object of the preposition                           1

     The verb to be and the prepositions                     2

     The direct or indirect regimen                          3

     The limiting (possessive and demonstrative) adjectives  4

     The qualifying adjectives                               5

     The participles or substantives taken adjectively or
     attributively; that is to say, every word coming
     immediately after the verb, in fine, the attribute      6

     The adverbs                                             7

     Conjunctions, superlative ideas or additional figures   8

     The interjection                                        9

The pronoun is either subject or complement, and therefore included in the rest. As for the
article, it is not essential to a language; there is no article in Latin.

Thus the value of our ideas is expressed by figures. We have only to reckon on our fingers.
We might beat time for the pronunciation of the consonants as for the notes of music. Let the
pupil exercise his fingers, and attain that skill which allows the articulation of a radical
consonant only after he has marked with his finger the time corresponding to its figure. If
difficulties present themselves at first, so much the better; he will only the more accurately
distinguish the value of the words.

Chapter V.

French and Latin Prosody.

French Prosody.

Prosody is the rhythmic pronunciation of syllables according to accent, respiration, and, above
all, quantity.

In the Italian there are no two equal sounds; the quantity is never uniform. Italian is, therefore,
the most musical of languages. Where we place one accent upon a vowel, the Italians place ten.

There is a euphonic law for every language; all idioms must have an accent. In every language
there are intense sounds and subdued sounds; the Italians hold to this variety of alternate
short and long sounds. Continuous beauty should be avoided. A beautiful tone must be introduced
to relieve the others. Monotony in sounds as well as in pronunciation, must be guarded against.
Harmony lies in opposition.

There is but one rule of quantity in French pronunciation. Here is the text of this law:

There are and can be only long initial or final vowels--whence we conclude:

1. Every final is long and every penultimate is final, since e mute is not pronounced.

2. The length of initial vowels depends upon the value of the initial consonants which they
precede.

A word cannot contain two long vowels unless it begins with a vowel. In this case, the vowel
of the preceding word is long, and prepares for the enunciation of the consonant according
to its degree.

Every first consonant in a word is strong, as it constitutes the radical or invariable part
of the word.

The force of this consonant is subordinate to the ruling degree of the idea it is called to
decide. But every vowel which precedes this first consonant is long, since it serves as a preparation
for it. But to what degree of length may this initial vowel be carried? The representative
figure of the consonant will indicate it.

Usually, the first consonant of every word is radical. Still there might be other radical consonants
in the same word. But the first would rise above the others.

The radical designates the substance of being, and the last consonant the manner.

The whole secret of expression lies in the time we delay the articulation of the initial consonant.
This space arrests the attention and prevents our catching the sound at a disadvantage.

Latin Prosody.

1. The final of a word of several syllables is usually short.

2. In words of two syllables, the first is long. In Latin words of two syllables, the first
almost always contains the radical.

3. In words of three and more syllables, there is one long syllable: sometimes the first, sometimes
another. We rest only upon this, all the others being counted more or less short.

In compound words no account need be made of prefixes; There are many compound words; and,
consequently, it is often the last or next to the last consonant which is the radical.

The last consonant represents always, in variable words, quality, person, mode or time. The
radical, on the contrary, represents the sum and substance.

4. Monosyllables are long, but they have, especially when they follow each other, particular
rules, which result from the sense of the phrases, and from the mutual dependence of words.

Chapter VI.

Method.

Dictation Exercises.

A subject and text being given, notes may be written under the nine following heads:

1. Oratorical value of ideas.

2. The ellipse.

3. Vocal inflections.

4. Inflective affinities, or relation to the preceding inflections.

5. Gestures.

6. Imitative affinities.

7. The special rule for each gesture.

8. The law whence this rule proceeds.

9. Reflections upon the portrayal of personal character.

Chapter VII.

A Series of Gestures for Exercises.

Preliminary Reflections.

We know the words of Garrick:

"I do not confide in myself, not I, in that inspiration for which idle mediocrity waits."

Art, then, presents a solid basis to the artist, upon which he can rest and reproduce at will
the history of the human heart as revealed by gesture.

This is true, and it is as an application of this truth that we are about to consider the series,
which is an exposition of the passions that agitate man, an initiation into imitative language.
It is a poem, and at the same time it lays down rules through whose aid the self-possessed
artist can regain the gesture which arises from sudden perturbation of the heart. It is a grammar
which must be studied incessantly, in order to understand the origin and value of imitative
expressions.

The development of the series is based upon the static, the semeiotic and the dynamic.

The static is the life of gesture; it is the science of the equipoise of levers, it teaches
the weight of the limbs and the extent of their development, in order to maintain the equilibrium
of the body. Its criterion should be a sort of balance.

The semeiotic is the spirit and rationale of gesture. It is the science of signs.

The dynamic is the action of equiponderant forces through the static; it regulates the proportion
of movements the soul would impress upon the body. The foundation and criterion of the dynamic,
is the law of the pendulum.

The series proceeds, resting upon these three powers. The semeiotic has given the signs, it
becomes æsthetic in applying them. The semeiotic says: "Such a gesture reveals such a passion;"
and gesture replies: "To such a passion I will apply such a sign." And without awaiting the
aid of an inspiration often hazardous, deceitful and uncertain, it moulds the body to its will,
and forces it to reproduce the passion the soul has conceived. The semeiotic is a science,
the æsthetic an act of genius.

The series divides its movements into periods of time, in accordance with the principle that
the more time a movement has, the more its vitality and power; and so every articulation becomes
the object of a time.

The articulations unfold successively and harmoniously. Every articulation which has no action,
must remain absolutely pendent, or become stiff. Grace is closely united to gesture; the manifold
play of the articulations which constitutes strength, also constitutes grace. Grace subdues
only because sustained by strength, and because strength naturally subdues. Grace without strength
is affectation.

Every vehement movement must affect the vertical position, because obliquity deprives the movement
of force, by taking from it the possibility of showing the play of the articulations.

The demonstration of movement is in the head. The head is the primary agent of movement; the
body is the medium agent, the arm the final agent.

Three agents in gesture are especially affected in characterizing the life, mind and soul.
The thumb is the index-sign of life; the shoulder is the sign of passion and sentiment; the
elbow is the sign of humility, pride, power, intelligence and sacrifice.

The first gesture of the series is the interpellation, the entrance upon the scene. The soul
is scarce moved as yet, and still this is the most difficult of gestures, because the most
complex. It must indicate the nature of the interpellation, its degree and the situation of
the giver and receiver of the summons in regard to each other.

A study of the signs which distinguish these different shades will teach us the analysis of
gesture.

Aside from simple interpellation, the series passes successively from gratitude, devotion,
etc., to anger, menace and conflict, leaving the soul at the point where it is subdued and
asks forgiveness.

The passional or fugitive type forms the constant subject of the study of this series.

The Series of Gestures Applied to the Sentiments Oftenest Expressed by the Orator.

First Gesture. Interpellation.

Interpellation embraces five steps:

The first consists in elevating the shoulder in token of affection. If the right shoulder,
as in figure 2 with the right leg weak.

The second step consists in a rotary movement of the arm, its object being to present the epicondyle
(elbow-joint) to the interlocutor. For this reason the epicondyle is called the eye of the arm.

The third stage consists in substituting the articulation of the wrist for the epicondyle.
In making the forward movement of the body, the epicondyle must resume its natural place.

The fourth step consists in extending the hand toward the speaker in such a way as to present
to him the extremities of the fingers.

The fifth step is formed by a rapid rotation of the hand.

Second Gesture. Thanks--Affectionate and Ceremonious.

This gesture consists of six steps:

1. Consists in lifting the hand and lowering the head.

2. Consists in raising the hand to the hip.

3. The head inclines to one side, and the elbow at the same time rises to aid the hand in reaching
the lips.

4. In this, the head resumes its normal position, while the elbow is lowered to bring back
the hand to the same position.

5. In this, the hand passes from the horizontal to the vertical position, rounding toward the arm.

6. In this, the arm is developed, and then the hand.

Third Gesture. Attraction.

In this gesture there are three steps:

1. The hand turns toward the interlocutor with an appealing aspect.

2. The hand opens like a fan with the little finger tending toward the chest.

3. The elbow is turned outward, and the hand passes toward the breast.

Fourth Gesture. Surprise and Assurance.

1. This consists in elevating the shoulders, opening the eyes and mouth and raising the eyebrow;
the whole in token of surprise.

2. Raise the passive hand above the chin, making it turn around the wrist.

3. The hand still passive, is directed toward the person addressed, the elbow being pressed
against the body.

4. The arm is gradually extended toward the person addressed, while the hand is given an opposite
direction; that is, the palm of the hand is toward him.

Fifth Gesture. Devotion.

This gesture embraces seven movements:

1. This consists in raising the passive hand to the level of the other hand, but in an inverse
direction.

2. This consists in turning back the hand toward one's self.

3. This consists in drawing the elbows to the body, and placing the hands on the chest.

4. This is produced by taking a step backward, and turning a third to one side; during the
execution of this step, the elbows are raised, and the head is lowered.

5. This consists in drawing the elbows near the body, and placing the hands above the shoulders.

6. This consists in developing the arms.

7. This consists in developing the hands.

Sixth Gesture. Interrogative Surprise.

This surprise is expressed in two movements:

1. This is wholly facial.

2. This is made by advancing the hand and drawing the head backward.

Seventh Gesture. Reiterated Interrogation.

This gesture signifies: I do not understand, I cannot explain your conduct to me. It embraces
five steps:

1. This consists in placing both hands beneath the chin, and violently elevating the shoulders.

2. This consists in bringing the hands to the level of the chest, as if in search of something
there.

3. This consists in extending both hands toward the interlocutor, as if to show him that they
contain nothing.

4. This consists in extending one hand in the opposite direction, and letting the head and
body follow the hand.

5. This consists in turning the head vehemently toward the interlocutor, and suddenly lowering
the shoulders.

Eighth Gesture. Anger.

This gesture is made in three movements:

1. This consists in raising the arm.

2. This consists in catching hold of the sleeve.

3. This consists in carrying the clenched hand to the breast, and drawing back the other arm.

Ninth Gesture. Menace.

This gesture consists of a preparatory movement, which is made by lowering the hand while the
arm is outstretched toward the interlocutor, then the finger is extended, and the hand is outstretched
in menace.

The eye follows the finger as it would follow a pistol; this occasions a reversal of the head
proportional to that of the hand.

Tenth Gesture. An Order for Leaving.

This is executed:

1. By turning around on the free limb.

2. By carrying the body with it.

3. By executing a one-fifth sideward movement--the right leg very weak. All these movements
are made by retaining the gesture of the preceding menace. Then only the menacing hand is turned
inward at the height of the eye, at the moment when it is about to pass the line occupied by
the head; the elbow is raised to allow the hand a downward movement, which ends in an indication
of departure. In this indication the hand is absolutely reversed, that is, it is in pronation.
Then only does the head, which has hitherto been lowered, rise through the opposition of the
extended arm.

Eleventh Gesture. Reiteration.

1. The whole body tends toward the hand which is posed above the head. The right leg passes
from weak to strong.

2. The head is turned backward toward the interlocutor.

3. It rises.

4. The arm extends.

5. The hand in supination gives intimation of the order.

Twelfth Gesture. Fright.

The right hand pendent. The left hand rises. Tremor.

The first movement is executed in one-third; the body gently passes into the fourth, and as
the fifth is being accomplished, the arm is thrust forward as if to repel the new object of terror.

At this moment a metamorphose seems to take place, and the object which had occasioned the
fright, seems to be transfigured and to become the subject of an affectionate impulse. The
hands extend toward this object not to repel it, but to implore it to remain; it seems to become
more and more ennobled, and to assume in the astonished eyes of the actor, a celestial form--it
is an angel. Therefore the body recoils anew one-fourth; the hands fall back in token of acquiescence;
then, while drawing near the body, they extend anew toward the angel (here a third in token
of affection and veneration). Then a prayer is addressed to it, and again the arms extend toward
it in entreaty. (Here the orator falls upon his knees.)

The series can be executed beginning with the right arm or the left, being careful to observe
the initial and principal movement, with the arms at the side where the scene opened. This
gives the same play of organs only in an inverse sense.

Important Remarks.

Should any student despair of becoming familiar with our method, we give him three pieces of
advice, all easy of application:

1. Never speak without having first expressed what you would say by gesture. Gesture must always
precede speech.

2. Avoid parallelism of gesture. The opposition of the agents is necessary to equilibrium,
to harmony.

3. Retain the same gesture for the same sentiment. In saying the same thing the gesture should
not be changed.

Should the student limit himself to the application of these three rules, he will not regret
this study of the

Practice of the Art of Oratory.

Appendix.

The Symbolism of Colors Applied to the Art of Oratory.

We close this book with an appendix which will serve for ornament. Before delivering up a suite
of rooms, we are wont to embellish them with rich decorations. Architects usually color their
plans. We also wish to give color to our criterion, by explaining the symbolism of colors.

                      SPECIES.
      GENUS.
      Concentric.
                   Violet-blue.  Green-blue.   Indigo.

                     1-III         3-III        2-III
      Normal.
                  Ecc.-Norm.    Norm.-Norm.   Cone.-Norm.
      III
                  Red-yellow.    Yellow.    Green-yellow.

                     1-I           3-I          2-I
      Eccentric.
                  Ecc.-Ecc.    Norm.-Ecc.     Conc.-Ecc.
      I
                     Red.      Yellow-red.    Violet-red.

In the literary world, color gives forms of speech consecrated by frequent usage. Thus we very
often say: a florid style, a brilliant orator. This figurative language signifies that in order
to shine, the orator must be adorned with the lustre of flowers. And as one flower excels others
and pleases us by the beauty of its colors, so the orator must excel, and please by the brilliant
shades of his diction. It is as impossible to give renown to a monotonous and colorless orator
as to a faded, discolored flower. Would you give to the phenomena of your organism this beautiful
corolla of the flower of your garden, throw your glance upon nature.

Nature speaks to the eye through an enchanting variety of colors, and these colors in turn
teach man how he may himself speak to the eyes. The whole man might recognize himself under
the smiling emblem of colors. Imagine him in whatever state you will, a color will give you
the secret of his aspirations. And so it has been easy for us to show you the orator imaged
in this colored chart, and we shall have no trouble in justifying our choice of colors.

Since man, as to his soul, presents himself in three states: the sensitive, intellectual and
moral; and in his organism in the eccentric, concentric and normal states; a priori, you may
conclude that nature has three colors to symbolize the three states, and experience will not
contradict you.

In fact, red, yellow and blue are the primitive colors. All others are derived from these three
rudimentary colors.

Why have we painted the column that corresponds to the life red? Because red is the color of
blood, and the life is in the blood. But life is the fountain of strength and power. Hence
red is the proper symbol of strength and power in God, in man and in the demon.

Why blue in the column of the concentric state, the mind? Because blue, from its transparency,
is most soothing to our eyes.

Why yellow in the column of the soul? Because yellow has the color of flame; it is the true
symbol of a soul set on fire by love. Yellow is, then, the emblem of pure love and of impure
flames.

Why not use white in our chart? Because white is incandescence in the highest degree. We say
of iron that it is at a red or a white heat. But in this world it is rare to see a heart at
a white heat. Earthly thermometers do not mark this degree of heat.

It cannot be denied that red, yellow and blue are the three elementary colors, whose union
gives birth to all the varieties that delight our eyes. We have proof of this in one of nature's
most beautiful phenomena--the rainbow.

The rainbow is composed of seven colors. Here we distinguish the red, yellow and blue in all
their purity; then from the fusion of these three primary colors, we have violet, orange, green
and indigo.

This is the order in which the seven colors of the rainbow appear to us:

Violet (red}, orange (yellow), green (blue), indigo. Orange is composed of yellow and red.
Yellow mixed with blue, produces green. Blue when saturated, becomes indigo. Upon closer investigation,
we may easily find the nine shades which correspond perfectly to the nine operations of our
faculties, and to the nine functions of angelic minds.

By complicating and blending the mixture of these colors, we shall have all the tints that
make nature so delightful a paradise.

The seven notes of music sound in accord with the seven colors of the rainbow. There is a brotherhood
between the seven notes and the seven colors.

The voice-apparatus, with that of speech and gesture, is for the orator a pallet like that
upon which the painter prepares and blends those colors which, under the brush of a Raphael,
would at once glow forth in a masterpiece.

Delsarte's criterion is true; still more, it is beautiful, especially so with its brilliant
adornment of the colors of the rainbow.

We verify our judgment by an explanation of the colored chart.

As may be seen, this chart is an exact reproduction of the criterion explained at the beginning
of this book, only we have adorned it with colors analogous to the different states of the
soul that art is called upon to reproduce.

Beginning with the three transverse columns corresponding to the genus, we have painted the
lower column red, the middle column yellow, and the upper one blue. These are the three colors
that symbolize the life, soul and mind, as well as the genera.

Passing to the vertical columns which correspond to species, we have painted the first column
red, the second yellow, and the third blue, passing from left to right. The blending of these
colors produces the variety of shades we might have in this representation.

Blue added to blue gives indigo; blue with yellow gives a deep green; with red, violet. Yellow
passed over to the middle column, gives bright green upon blue; pure yellow, when passed upon
yellow, and orange upon red.

Thus pure red will be the expression of the sensitive state or the life. Orange will render
soul from life, and violet will be the symbol of mind from life.

Applying this process of examination to the two other columns, we shall know by one symbolic
color, what the soul wishes at the present hour, and these same colors will, besides, serve
to regulate the attitude of our organs.

Honor and thanks to the genius which gives us this criterion, where is reflected the harmony
of all worlds!

Epilogue.

In this rational grammar of the art of oratory, I have given the rules of all the fine arts.
All arts have the same principle, the same means and the same end. They are akin, they interpenetrate,
they mutually aid and complete each other. They have a common scope and aim. Thus, music needs
speech and gesture. Painting and sculpture derive their merit from the beauty of attitudes.
There is no masterpiece outside the rules here laid down.

It is not enough to know the rules of the art of oratory. He who would become an orator, must
make them his own. Even this is not enough for the free movement of the agents which reveal
the mind, the soul and the life. The method must be so familiar as to seem a second nature.
Woe to the orator if calculation and artifice be divined in his speech! How shun this quicksand?
By labor and exercise. The instruments and the manner of using them are in your hands, student
of oratory. Set about your work. Practice gymnastics, but let them be gymnastics in the service
of the soul, in the service of noble thoughts and generous sentiments--divine gymnastics for
the service of God.

Renew your nature. Lay aside the swaddling-bands of your imperfections, conform your lives
to the highest ideals of uprightness and truth. Exercise your voice, your articulation and
your gestures. If need be, like Demosthenes, place pebbles in your mouth; repair like that
great orator to the sea-shore, brave the fury of the billows, accustom yourself to the tumult
and roar of assemblies. Do not fear the fracture or dislocation of your limbs as you seek to
render them supple, to fashion them after the model, the type you have before your eyes. Labor
omnia vincit.

In any event, be persevering. Novitiate and apprenticeship in any profession, are difficult.
In every state the bitterness of trial is to be expected. To arrive at initiation has its joys,
to arrive at perfection is a joy supreme. Beneath the rind of this mechanism, this play of
organs, dwells a vivifying spirit. Beneath these tangible forms of art, the Divine lies hidden,
and will be revealed. And the soul that has once known the Divine, feels pain no longer, but
is overwhelmed with joy.

Art is the richest gift of heaven to earth. The true artist does not grow old; he is never
too old to feel the charm of divine beauty. The more a soul has been deceived, the more it
has been chastened by suffering, the more susceptible it is to the benefits of art. This is
why music soothes our sorrows and doubles our joys. Song is the treasure of the poor.

Return, then, with renewed enthusiasm to your work! The end is worth the pains. The human organism
is a marvelous instrument which God has given for our use. It is a harmonious lyre, with nine
chords, each rendering various sounds. These three chords for the voice, and three for both
gesture and speech, have their thousand resonances at the service of the life, the soul and
the mind. As these chords vibrate beneath your fingers, they will give voice to the emotions
of the life, to the jubilations of the heart and the raptures of the mind. This delightful
concert will lend enchantment to your passing years, throwing around them all the attractions
of the Good, the True, and the Beautiful.

We may well salute the three Graces and the nine Muses as gracious emblems, but it is far better
to discern in art, the reflected image of the triple celestial hierarchy with its nine angel
choruses.

Honor, then, to the fine arts! Glory to eloquence! Praise to the good man who knows how to
speak well! Blessed be the great orator! Like our tutelary angel, he will show us the path
that conducts or leads back to God.

Part Fourth.

Arnaud on Delsarte.

The Delsarte System.

By

Angélique Arnaud, (Pupil of Delsarte).

Translated by Abby L. Alger.

Chapter I.

The Bases of the Science.

Delsarte published no book upon art. The bases of the science which he created are contained
in a synthetical table. Other tables develop each branch of it considered separately.

Starting from an undeniable law--that which regulates the constitution of man,--Delsarte applies
it to æsthetics; he designates man as "the object of art," and groups in series the organic
agents that co-operate in the manifestation of human thought, sentiment and passion; declaring
the purpose of these manifestations, now become artistic, to be the amelioration of our being
by throwing into relief and light the splendors of moral beauty and the horrors of vice.

Delsarte defines art in several ways. He has been reproached for his over-amplitude of definition,
and his development of it in a sense too metaphysical for a science which he himself calls
"positive." I give here only such definitions as seem to me most clear and important.

"Art is at once the knowledge, the possession and the free direction of the agents by virtue
of which are revealed the life, soul and mind. It is the appropriation of the sign to the thing.
It is the relation of the beauties scattered through nature to a superior type. It is not,
therefore, the mere imitation of nature."

The word life, in the sense employed above, is the equivalent of sensation, of physical manifestations.

Man being the object of art, it is from the working of the various faculties of the human organism
that Delsarte deduces the task of the artist; as from the knowledge of the essential modalities
of the ego, he deduces his law of general æsthetics.

Delsarte teaches, therefore, that man is a triplicity of persons; that is, he contains in his
indestructible unity, three principles or aspects, which he calls life, soul and mind; in other
words, physical, moral and intellectual persons.

In this statement this master agrees with the philosophers who give a triplicity of essential
principles as the base of ontology. Pierre Leroux names them as follows: sensation, sentiment,
consciousness.

That which is personal to Delsarte is the derivation of the law of æsthetics from this conception
of being.

The primal faculties once ascertained, he devotes himself to an analysis of the organism; he
describes the harmony of each of these faculties with the apparatus which serves it as agent
for manifesting itself, and demonstrates the fitness of each organ for the task assigned it.
The master establishes that the inflections of the voice betray more especially the sensitive
nature; that gesture is the interpreter of emotion; that articulation--a special element of
speech--is in the direct service of intelligence and thought. He gave the name of vocal to
the active apparatus of sensation; dynamic to that of sentiment; buccal to that of articulation.

From the union of the faculties and their agents arise three modes of expression: the language
of affection, the language of ellipsis (or gesture) and the language of philosophy. They respond
to the three states which Delsarte recognizes in man, and which the artist is to translate:
the sensitive state, corresponding to the life; the moral state, to the soul; the intellectual
state, to the mind.

But this division into three modalities or into three states is far from giving the number
of the manifestations of being. Nature is not reduced to this indigence. From the fusion of
these three states, in varying and incessant combination, and from the predominance of one
of the primitive modalities, whether accidental or permanent, countless individualities are
formed, each with its personal constitution, its shades of difference of education, habits,
age, character, etc.

It seems at the first glance as if the mind must be confused by these varieties, whose possible
number fades into infinity; but the teacher does not open this labyrinth to his disciples without
providing them with a clue.

Independently of these modalities, of these states, which form the basis of the system, Delsarte
traces triune subdivisions, which serve as a point of convergence; thus the intermediary rays
of the compass or mariner's card are multiplied, and receive special names, without ceasing
to belong to one of the four cardinal points.

Whatever, for instance, may be the tendency of the individual whom we desire to portray, or
to represent by any art whatsoever, we can think of him in his normal state, as well as in
a concentric or eccentric state: this is a first distinction.

Each of these states is itself subject to shades of difference, to modifications. The normal
state of a diplomat and that of an artist could not be the same. The one, by the very effect
of his profession, will incline to concentration; the other will tend to expansion, if not
to eccentration. Hence a simple normal state which is the most common; a normal-concentric
state, a normal-eccentric state: here we have a second distinction.

Delsarte, in order to avoid confusion between the word state applied to primordial modalities--which
he defines as sensitive, moral and intellectual states,--often uses the word element in place
of that of state in speaking of concentration, eccentration and normality, which, in this case,
he also calls calm; but, in teaching, he was always accustomed to use these more exact terms:
normal state, concentric state, eccentric state.

These differences may occur in regard to each of the other terms. Thus we may have the simple
concentric state, the concentro-concentric state, etc.

It is upon this mutual interpenetration of the various states in the triple unity, that the
master founds the idea which dominates and pervades his whole system; the three isolated and
independent terms do not, to his thinking, constitute the integrality of the human ego. To
constitute, according to Delsarte's theory, three, the vital number, it must, by its very essence,
and by inherent force, raise itself to its multiple nine. This is what the master calls the
ninefold accord.

Medicine--a science which also derives its justification from the human organism--from certain
points of view affords us analogies to this mixture of primordial components; for example,
nervous and sanguine temperaments which are blended in the sanguo-nervous, etc.

If we refer to our own faculties, does it not strike us indeed, that neither life--nor sensation--nor
sentiment, nor intellect can manifest itself without the aid of its congeners or co-associates?

Is intelligence evident elsewhere than in a sensitive being (life)? And even when considering
the most abstract things, does it not bear witness of its taste, its power of choice (sentiment)?
Can sentiment be absolutely disengaged from impression (life)? And if it is not always under
the sway of the idea, is it not certain that it gives rise to it, by provoking observation
and reflection (intellect)?

Finally, can an adult--save in the case of absolute idiocy--exist by sensitive life alone outside
of all sentiment and all thought (soul, intellect)?

It is by the harmony of the modalities among themselves, and the contribution of each to the
unity, that every individual type is formed. Delsarte thought that he could fix their numerical
scale; but he was not permitted to carry his scientific studies thus far; still, it is not
indispensable to art, which demands above all things very marked types, that verification should
be carried to its farthest limits. It will not be difficult, guided by the knowledge which
Delsarte has left us, to classify artistic personages as physical, intellectual and moral or
sentimental types; and, in the same category, to differentiate those belonging to the concentric
state from those falling more particularly into the eccentric or normal states: the Don Juans,
Othellos, Counts Ory, etc. Delsarte, in practice, excelled in characterizing these shades of
difference.

These prolegomena would not perhaps alone suffice to give this teacher a claim to the title
of creator of a science. Although they give the theory of the system, they are far from containing
all its developments. But Delsarte did not stop here.

In appropriate language--wherein new words are not lacking for the new science--he takes apart
each of the agents of the organism, enumerated above; he examines them in their details, and
assigns them their part in the sensitive, moral, or intellectual transmission with which they
are charged. Thus gesture--the interpreter of sentiment--is produced by means of the head,
torso and limbs; and in the functions of the head are comprised the physiognomic movements,
also classified and described, with their proper significance, such as anger, hate, contemplation,
etc.,--and the same with the other agents.

Each part observed gives rise to a special chart, where we see, for instance, what should be
the position of the eye in exaltation, aversion, intense application of the mind, astonishment,
etc. The same labor is given to the arms, the hands and the attitudes of the body, with the
mark, borrowed from nature, of the slightest movement, partial or total, corresponding to the
sensation, the sentiment, the thought that the artist wishes to express.

I hope that these works may yet be recovered entire, for the master was lavish of them, and
that they may be given to the public.[5]

An exact science at first sight appears contradictory to art. Will it not diminish its limits,
* * * trammel its transports? Will it not prove hostile to its liberty at every point? * *
* Will it not check the flights of its graceful fancy, its adorable caprice?

No, indeed! as I said in regard to the ideal, the theories of Delsarte, far from hampering
the free expansion of art, do but enlarge its horizons, and prepare a broader field for its
harmonies. They leave freedom to the opinions most difficult of seizure, the most unforeseen
creations; because, responding to every faculty of being, this science, while it corrects imagination,
respects its legitimate power.

Finally, what is this science which analyzes every spring and every part brought to play in
the manifestation of life? A compass to guide us to the desired goal; a measure of proportion
to fix each variety in the immensity of types; a touchstone by which to judge of each man's
vocation.

But do not let us forget that if this science holds back, restrains and preserves us from parasites,
* * * if it prepares proper soil, and assists feebly dowered natures to acquire real value,
it cannot supply the place of those marvelous talents, that personality, which showed us, in
Delsarte himself, the heights to which a dramatic singer may attain. What surprises and subjugates
us in these privileged persons is the secret of nature; it is not to be written down, not to
be demonstrated; this unknown quantity, this mystery, reveals itself at its own time by flashes,
and with different degrees of intensity during the career of the same artist. Some have thought
to explain the prodigy by that superior instinct known as intuition; but the discovery of the
word does not open the arcanum.

I have said enough, I hope, in regard to the science created by Delsarte, to put upon the track
such minds as are apt for the subject, and endowed with sufficient penetration to assimilate
it; but it must not be disguised that even should the whole work be collected together, the
science must still await its examination, its verification and its complements; for a science
at its birth is like a program given out for the study of present and future generations. Delsarte
was still working on his to the last years of his life. Every day he gained fresh insight;
he added branches and accessories. Yet the criticisms of details which will come later--even
when they are justified,--will not rob the inventor of the glory of his scientific discovery.
Let genius invent, scholars pursue its discoveries! * * * If genius works alone, scientists
work hand in hand,

Chapter II.

The Method.

I have shown Delsarte as a composer, as pre-eminently an artist, who, as a certain critic says,
"was never surpassed;" I have insisted upon the two titles which form his special glory: that
of revealer of the laws of æsthetics, and that of creator of a science to support his discoveries;
a science whose application relates particularly to the dramatic and lyric arts, although at
its base, and especially when considered as law, it embraces all the liberal arts.

It remains for me to speak of his method, properly so called; of his precepts, his maxims,
his opinions and his judgments; of that, in a word, which constitutes the personal manner of
each master, and his mode of instruction; for if the law is single in its essential and constitutive
ideas, it radiates into diversity in its individual manifestations; it has infinite possibilities.

Delsarte considered art as the surest, purest and most constant good in life. He required much
time to complete the education of a pupil, because he knew how long it had taken him to master
the methods of translating, through that noble interpreter, art, the best and most sublime
possibilities of the human soul; and because he knew as well all that is inherent in our nature
of vice and imperfection. He held that the truth, be it good or bad, is always instructive.

In regard to truth he says: "A man may possess remarkable qualities, may have grace, expression,
charm and elegance, but they are all as nothing if he does not interpret the truth." He desired
the artist to study beauty in every form, to seek and discover its secrets. He tells us that
he himself studied the poses of the statues of antiquity for fifteen years.

It was in consequence of this period of study, assuredly, that the master condemned the parallel
movement of the limbs in gesture, and recommended attitudes which he called inverse; if, for
instance, the actor leans on his left leg, the corresponding gesture must necessarily be entrusted
to the right arm.

The master taught that the gesture--the true interpreter of the sentiment--should precede the
word. He added: "The word is but an echo, the thought made external and visible, the ambassador
of intelligence. Every energetic passion, every deep sentiment, is accordingly announced by
a sign of the head, the hand or the eye, before the word expresses it." Thus, the actor and
the orator, if they do not conform to this precept, have failed to attain to art.

Delsarte proves his assertion by giving examples, somewhat overdrawn, in a sense the inverse
of this theory. Nothing was more amusing than to see him execute one of these dilatory gestures;
for instance, this phrase, uttered by the lackey of some comedy, delivering a message: "Sir,
here is a letter which I was told to deliver to you at once." The hand extending the note unseasonably,
produced so ridiculous an effect that the heartiest laughter never failed to follow.

On Ellipsis.

The preceding steps lead us to ellipsis, which plays an important part in the method of Delsarte.

All the thoughts and sentiments contained in literature, in one comprehensive word, are entrusted
to the mimic art of the actor, whose essential agent is gesture. The conjunction and interjection
are alike elliptical; thus in the phrase: "Ah! * * how unhappy I am! * *" "Ah!" should imply
a painful situation before the explanatory phrase begins. In his course of applied æsthetics,
Delsarte gives us the striking effects of the elliptic conjunction.

On Shades and Inflections.

The shade, that exquisite portion of art, which is rather felt than expressed, is the characteristic
sign of the perfection of talent; it forms a part of the personality of the artist. You may
have heard a play twenty times with indifference, or a melody as often, only to be bored by
it; some fine day a great actor relieves the drama of its chill, its apparent nullity; the
commonplace melody takes to itself wings beneath the magic of a well-trained, expressive and
sympathetic voice. Delsarte possessed this artistic talent to a supreme degree, and it was
one of the remarkable parts of his instruction; he had established typical phrases, where the
mere shade of inflection gave an appropriate meaning to every variety of impression and sentiment
which can possibly be expressed by any one set of words. One of these phrases was this: "That
is a pretty dog!"

A very talented young girl succeeded in giving to these words a great number of different modulations,
expressing endearment, coaxing, admiration, ironical praise, pity and affection. Delsarte,
with his far-reaching comprehension, conceived of more than 600 ways of differentiating these
examples; but he stopped midway in the execution of them, and certainly no one else will ever
pursue this outline to its farthest limits.

The second phrase was: "I did not tell you that I would not!"

This time the words were given as a study for adults; they lent themselves to other sentiments;
they revealed, as the case might be, indifference, reproach, encouragement, the hesitation
of a troubled soul, etc.

It was by means of these manifold shades that the artist-professor established characteristic
differences in parts wherein so many actors had seen but the identical fact of a similar passion
or a similar vice. To his mind, all misers were not the same miser, nor all seducers the same
seducer. In singing particularly, with what art Delsarte used the inflection!

On Vocal Music.

In regard to lyric art especially, Delsarte had his peculiar and personal theories. Singing
was not to him merely a means of displaying the singer's voice or person; it was a superior
language, charged with the rendition, in its individual charm, of all the greatest creations
of literature and poetry; all the sweet, tender, or cruel sentiments possible to humanity.

This exceptional singer attained his effects partly by means of certain modifications of the
rhythm, which caused inattentive critics to say: "Delsarte does not observe the measure." What
they themselves failed to note, was that the first beat was always given firmly; and that it
was in the divisions of one measure, and by subtle compensations, that he made the difference.
Far from having cause for complaint, the composer gained thereby, a more clear expression of
his thought, a more persuasive expansion of his sentiment, and the respiration appeared more
easy. It was something similar--with a greater value--to that personal punctuation with which
skilful readers often divide the text which they translate.

It was particularly in recitative, the style, moreover, least subject to precise laws, that
Delsarte used this license; and it was in this style that he especially excelled.

And is it not in what remains unwritten that the singer's true greatness is revealed? What
dilettante has not felt the power of a more incisive attack of the note; of that prolongation
of the note, held imperceptibly, which, having captured it, holds the attention of the listener?

But, to hear these things, it is not necessary, as the saying is, "to bestride technique."
In so far as the training of the voice is concerned, Delsarte gave himself a scientific basis.
He was the first to think that it would be well to know the mechanism of the organ, that it
might be used to the best advantage, both by avoiding injurious methods of exercising it, and
by aiding the development of the tone by appropriate work.

In his rooms were to be seen imitations of the larynx--in pasteboard--of various sizes. His
pupils, it seems to me, could profit but little by these far from pleasing sights. At the utmost
it increased their confidence in the man who desired an intimate acquaintance with everything
relating to the art which he taught. It is to teachers particularly that the introduction of
this auxiliary into the study of the vocal mechanism may have been of some value. I have lately
learned that several singing teachers use these artificial larynxes. Can priority be claimed
for Delsarte? I can only affirm that he refers to them in a treatise signed by himself, and
dated in the year 1831.

I shall not enter into the details of this contingent side of the method; the statement of
the facts is enough to lead all those who are interested, to devote thought and study to the
matter. I prefer to dwell upon the things which Delsarte carried with him into the grave, having
written them only on the memories of certain adepts destined to disappear soon after him.

On Respiration.

Delsarte established his theory of diaphragmatic breathing in accordance with his anatomical
knowledge. It consists in restoring the breath, without effort, from the commencing lift of
the diaphragm to the production of the tone. He opposed it to the costal breathing, which brings
the lungs suddenly into action by movements of the chest and shoulders, and causes extreme
fatigue. "The chest," he says, "should be a passive agent; the larynx and mouth, aiding the
diaphragm, alone have a right to act in breathing; the action of the larynx consists of a depression,
that of the mouth should produce the canalization (concavity) of the tongue and the elevation
of the veil of the palate."

To this first idea is attached what the master taught in regard to the distinction between
vital breath and artificial breath. It is certain that one may sing with the natural respiration;
but it is rapidly exhausted if not augmented by additional inhalation; for it results in dryness
and breathlessness, which cause suffering alike to singer and listener. The artificial breath,
on the contrary, preserves the ease and freshness of the voice.

On the Position of the Tone.

The placing of the tone was one of Delsarte's great anxieties. According to his theory, the
attack should be produced by explosion. He rejected that stress which induces the squeezing
out of the tone after it is produced. The way to avoid it is to prepare rapidly and in anticipation
of the emission of the note.

These ideas demand oral elucidation; but it is enough to declare them, for teachers and singers
to recognize their meaning.

On the Preparation of the Initial Consonant.

The preceding lines refer to vocalization; but Delsarte applied the same process to pronunciation.
He directed that the initial consonant should be prepared in the same way as the attack on
the tone; it was thus produced distinctly and powerfully, that is, in less appreciable extent
of time. Such is the concentration of the archer preparing to launch an arrow; of the runner
about to leap a ditch. The master, in no case permitted that annoying compass of the voice
before a consonant, so frequently employed by ordinary singers. The Italians justly translate
this disagreeable performance by the word strascinato (dragged out or prolonged).

Exercises.

Delsarte has been severely blamed for the way in which he trained the voice. I have nothing
to say in regard to those who imputed to him physical and barbarous methods of developing it;
but it may be true that he endangered it by certain exercises or by failure to cultivate the
mechanism. I do not feel myself competent to pronounce upon this technical point, but I can
give an exact account of what was done in his school.

Delsarte directed that the tones should be swelled on a single note, E flat (of the medium);
he claimed that by strengthening this intermediary note the ascending and descending scales
were sympathetically strengthened. He thus avoided, as he said, breaking the high treble notes
by exercises which would render the cords too severely tense, convinced morever, that at a
given moment a burst of enthusiasm and will-power would take the place of assiduous practice.

He also taught that this special exercise of the medium would prevent the separation of the
registers, that phylloxera of the vocal organ, which wrecks so many singers, and causes them
so many sorrows. This was the way to gain that mixed voice, the ideal held up to the scholars
as being the most impressive and the most exquisite; that which at the same time ravished the
ear and charmed the heart.

This master considered the chest-voice as more particularly physical; and the head-voice, it
must be confessed, is too much like the voice of a bird, to awaken sentiment and sympathy.

Delsarte himself possessed this mixed voice; in him, it seemed to start from the heart, and
brought tears to eyes which had never known them. The power of that tone--allied to the perfection
of shading, diction and lyric declamation--caused every listening soul to vibrate with latent
emotion which might never have been waked to life save by that appeal.

I return to the practice of swelled tones upon the note E flat. This note certainly acquired
broad and powerful tones about which there was nothing forced, and which were most agreeable.
This development was communicated to the neighboring notes. But did not these advantages take
from the compass of the scale? If so, were they a counterbalance to the injury? I repeat that
I dare not affirm anything in this respect.

Delsarte, assuredly, did not give as much space to vocalization as other teachers, especially
those of the Italian school.

It is also undeniable, that dramatic singing--the style which he preferred--is dangerous to
the vocal organism; particularly when one practices the shriek or scream, which produces a
fine effect when skilfully employed, but is most pernicious in excess.

Delsarte was too conscientious an artist not to sacrifice his voice, at certain moments, to
his pathetic effects; but he was very careful to warn his scholars against the abuse of this
method; he directed them to use it but very rarely, and with the greatest precaution.

I should also say, in his favor, that light voices were very differently trained from heavy
ones. Madame Carvalho, who began her studies in his school, did not alter the flexible but
feeble organ she brought there. Mlle. Chaudesaigues and Mlle. Jacob, under Delsarte's tuition,
attained to marvels of flexibility, without losing any of their natural gifts.

Appoggiatura.

Delsarte brought about a revolution in French music in everything relating to appoggiatura,
or rather, he restored its primitive meaning. The way in which he interpreted it has created
a school.

He taught that the root of the word--appoggiatura--being appuyer (to sustain), the chief importance
should be given in the phrase, to appoggiatura, by extent and expression; the more so that
this note is generally placed on a dissonance; and, according to this master's system, it is
on the dissonance--and not at random and very frequently, as is the habit of many singers--that
the powerful effect of the vibration of sound should be produced.

Contrary to this opinion, the appoggiatura was for a long time used in France as a short and
rapid passing note; it thus gave the music a vivacious character, wholly discordant with the
style of serious compositions; the music of Gluck was particularly unsuited to it.

Roulade and Martellato.

In every school of singing the roulade is effected by means of the staccato and legato. Delsarte
had a marked prejudice in favor of the martellato, which partakes of both. He compared it,
in his picturesque way of expressing his ideas, to pearls united by an invisible thread.

Pronunciation.

The master's pronunciation was irreproachable; not the slightest trace of a provincial accent;
never the least error of intonation, the smallest mistake in regard to a long or short syllable.
What is perhaps rarer than may be thought, he possessed, in its absolute purity, the prosody
of his native language, alike in lyric declamation and in the cantabile. His penetrating tones
added another charm to the many merits which he had acquired by study.

Pronunciation, therefore, was skilfully and carefully taught in Delsarte's school. The professor's
first care was to correct any tendency to lisp, which he did by temporarily substituting the
syllables te, de, over and over again, for the faulty R. This substitution brought the organ
back to the requisite position for the vibration of the R.

This process is now in common use; but I cannot say whether it was employed before Delsarte's
day. He obtained very happy results from it.

E mute before a Consonant.

Delsarte did not allow that absolute suppression of the E mute before a consonant, which seems
to prevail at present, and which produces so bad an effect in delivery. As the evil, at the
time of which I speak, was yet comparatively unknown, he did not make it a case of conscience;
but if he never lent himself to this ellipsis, he, "the lyric Talma," "the exquisite singer,"
as he has frequently been called, should we not regard his abstinence as a condemnation from
which there is no appeal? I do not believe, moreover, that either Nourrit or Dupré authorized
by their example a habit so contrary to the rules of French versification, so disagreeable
to the well-trained ear and so opposed to good taste. Such young singers as have yielded to
it, have only to listen to themselves for one moment to abandon it forever.

It is certain that E mute can in no instance be assimilated to the accented E; but to suppress
it entirely, is to break the symmetry of the verse, to put the measure out of time. It is unmistakable
that the weakness of the vowel, or mute syllable, concerns the sound, not the duration. Let
it die away gently; but for Heaven's sake, do not murder it! Voltaire wrote: "You reproach
us with our E mute, as a sad, dull sound that dies on our lips, but in this very E mute lies
the great harmony of our prose and verse." Littré recognizes two forms of the E mute: the E
mute, faintly articulated as in "àme;" and the E mute sounded as in me, ce, le; but he does
not allude to an E which is entirely null.

Once more, then, that there may be no misunderstanding, let me say that the word mute added
to the E, has but a relative sense, in view of the two vowels of the same name and marked with
an acute or a grave accent.

One fact throws light on the question: did any author ever make a character above the rank
of a peasant or a lackey, say:

/ "J'aime' ben Lisett' J'crois qu'ell' m'en veut!" P/

Take an example from Voltaire (tragedy of the Death of Caesar): "Voilà vos successeurs, Horace,
Décius." Evidently, if the E mute had not been counted, the second hemistich of the Alexandrine
verse would have had but five syllables instead of six.

Would any one like to know how the heresiarchs of the E mute would manage?

In this instance they would repeat the A of the penultimate, aspirating it and pronouncing
thus: "Voilà vos successeurs, Hora ... as', Décius."

In this way they would have the requisite number of syllables; but they would be wholly at
odds with the dictionary of the good actors of the Théâtre Français.

This falsification is especially common in singing, though it is no less revolting in that
field of art. How often at concerts--the force of tradition saves us at the theatre--do we
hear even artists of great reputation pronounce:

"Quel jour prosp'..er' plus de mystè..er," instead of: "Quel jour prospère plus de mystère."
And, in one of the choruses of the opera "La Reine de Chypre":

    "Jamais, jamais en Fran ... anç'
    Jamais l'Anglais ne régnera!"

This anomaly is most offensive in the final syllable of a verse, because there the measure
is more impaired than ever, and in this way that alternation of male and female rhymes is suppressed,
which produces so flowing and graceful a cadence in French verse.

E mute before a Vowel.

The encounter of E mute in a final syllable, with the initial vowel of the word which follows
it, makes the defect more apparent and accordingly easier to fight against.

Delsarte's process was as follows: When a silent syllable is immediately followed by a word
beginning with another vowel, the E mute (by a prolongation of the sound of the penultimate)
is suppressed with the next letter. Thus in the aria of Joseph (opera by Méhu):

"Loin de vous a langui ma jeune.. sexilée;" and in Count Ory: "Salut, ô vénéra ... blermite."

In these cases, by an unfortunate spirit of compensation, the abettors of the innovation, suppressing
the grammatical elision, sing thus:

    "Loin de vous a langui ma jeune ... ess'exilée."
    "Salut, ô vénréra ... abl'erm ... it!"

Littré's Dictionary gives us the same pronunciation as Delsarte; and his written demonstration
is even more positive. We find favorables auspices, arbres abattus, written in this way: "fa-vo-ra-ble-z-auspices,
arbre-z-abattus."

It is, however, very difficult to express these differences exactly, in type: what Littré expresses
radically by typographic characters, is blended with most natural delicacy by the voice of
a singer.

Thus, according to Delsarte, the E mute of a final syllable should be suppressed before a vowel,
on condition of a prolongation of the sound, in harmony with the penultimate syllable.

According to Delsarte again, according to Voltaire, according to Littré, the E mute is weakened,
more or less, but never completely suppressed, before a consonant.

Finally Legouvé, whose voice is preponderant in these matters, whose books are in the hands
of the whole world, has never entered into this lettricidal conspiracy.

I hope to be pardoned this long digression, thinking it my duty to protest against such a ludicrous
method of treating French prosody; I do so both in the name of æsthetics and as a part of my
task as biographer of Delsarte.[6]

Chapter III.

Was Delsarte a Philosopher?

If we consider philosophy in the light of all the questions upon which it touches, the subjects
which it embraces, we must answer "No;" but if we concentrate the word within the limits of
æsthetics, we may reply in the affirmative. Did not Delsarte point out the origin of art, its
object and its aim?

Not that this master never exceeded the limits of his science and his method. He had sketched
out a "Treatise on Reason," and had begun to classify the faculties of being, entering into
the subject more profoundly than the categories of Kant; but all this only exists in mere outline,
in a technology whose terms have not been weighed and connected together by a solid chain of
reasoning: logic has not uttered its final word therein.

A separate volume would be required to give an idea of these gigantic sketches, which must
remain in their rudimentary state.

If Delsarte had finished his work, it would seem that he must have leaned toward the scholastic
method, now so much out of favor; but certainly he would put his own personality into this,
as into everything that he undertook to investigate; for he was held back on the steeps of
mysticism by the science which he had created, and which could only afford a shelter to the
supernatural as an extension of those psychical faculties which have been called intuition,
imagination, etc.

Then the influence of Raymond Brucker, who died shortly after Delsarte, being lessened, and
conscientious and patient study having fed the flame in that vast brain, we might have obtained
affirmations of a new order. And Delsarte might have met with thinkers like Leibnitz, Descartes
and Jean Reynaud, on that height where religion is purged of superstition and fanaticism, philosophy
set free from atheism and materialism!

If Delsarte had a fault, it was that he regarded all modern philosophy as sensuous naturalism;
and if reason sometimes seemed to him suspicious, it was because he often confounded it with
sophistry, which reasons indeed, but is far from being reason.

Let us regret that Delsarte never finished his complete philosophy; but let us be grateful
to him for having raised his art and all arts to the level of philosophy, by giving them truth
as a basis and morality as a final aim; which fairly justifies, it seems to me, the title of
artist-philosopher, which I have sometimes applied to him.

I should not neglect, in this connection, to set down the explanation, given by Delsarte, of
what he meant by the word trinity, as used in his scientific system. The reader cannot fail
to see the elements of a system of philosophy in this succinct statement, this outline to be
filled up:

"The principle of the system lies in the statement that there is in the world a universal formula
which may be applied to all sciences, to all things possible: --this formula is the trinity.

"What is requisite for the formation of a trinity?

"Three expressions are requisite, each presupposing and implying the other two. Each of three
terms must imply the other two. There must also be an absolute co-necessity between them; thus,
the three principles of our being--life, mind and soul--form a trinity.

"Why?

"Because life and mind are one and the same soul; soul and mind are one and the same life;
life and soul are one and the same mind."

Independently of its method, which was especially applicable to dramatic and lyric arts, Delsarte's
doctrine, as we have seen, drew from the primordial sources, which are the law of things, the
principles of all poetry, all art and all science. The intense light which he brought thence
was too dazzling for young scholars, whose minds were rarely prepared by previous education.
It, nevertheless, overflowed into the daily lessons, and gave them that peculiar and somewhat
singular aspect, which acted even upon those whose intelligence could not cope with it. Such
is the mysterious magic of things which penetrate before they convince.

But these lofty problems demanded an audience in harmony with their elevation. Delsarte soon
attracted such. Under the title "Course of Applied Æsthetics," he collected in various places,
notably at the "Circle of Learned Societies," profane and sacred orators, and learned men of
all sorts. There he could develop points of view as new as they seemed to be strikingly true.
It was on leaving one of these meetings, that a distinguished painter thus expressed his enthusiasm:
"I have learned so much to-day, and it is all so simple and so true, that I am amazed that
I never thought of it before."

The Course of Applied Æsthetics was addressed to painters, sculptors, orators, as well as to
musicians, both performers and composers; and was finally extended to literary men. This audience
of scholars was no less astonished and enchanted than others had been.

Theory of the Degrees.

The theory of degrees was largely developed at these meetings, and I have purposely delayed
it till this chapter. To understand this theory--one of the most striking points in Delsarte's
method, and original with him,--one should have some idea of the grammar which he composed
for the use of his pupils.

I will not say that this treatise was complete in the sense usually attached to the word grammar.
There is no mention of orthography or of lexicology; but all that is the very essence of language,
that from which no language, no idiom can escape--the constituent parts of speech--are examined
and investigated from a philosophic and psychologic point of view. Just as the author examined
the constituent modalities of our being in the light of æsthetics, he seized the affinities
between the laws of speech, as far as regards the voice--logos--and the moral manifestations
of art.

This production of Delsarte has undergone the fate of almost all his works--it has not been
printed. Indeed, I greatly fear that, all his notes on the subject can never be collected;
nevertheless that which has been gathered together presents a certain development. I will not
enter into the purely metaphysical part, limiting myself, as I have done from the beginning
of this study, to making known the conceptions of Delsarte only in so far as they refer to
the special field of æsthetics.

In this category, we find the following definitions which serve to classify the quantitative
values or degrees: that is the extent assigned to each articulation or vocal emission to enable
it to express the thoughts, sentiments and sensations of our being in their truth and proportionate
intensity:

1. Substantive is the name given to a group of appearances, to a totality of attributes.

2. Adjective expresses ideas, simple, abstract, general and medicative; it is an abstraction
in the substantive.

3. Verb is the word that affirms the existence and the co-existence between the being existing
and its manner of existing: that is to say it connects the subject with the attribute. The
verb is not a sign of action, but of affirmation, and existence.

4. The participle alone is a sign of action.

5, 6, 7. The article, pronoun and preposition fit into the common definitions.

8. The adverb is the adjective of the adjective and of the participle (in so far as it is an
attribute of the verb); it modifies them both, and is not modifiable by either of them; it
is a sign of proportion, an intellectual compass.

9. The conjunction has the same function as the preposition: it unites one object to another
object; but it differs from it, inasmuch as the preposition has but a single word for its antecedent,
and a single word for its objective case, while the conjunction has an entire phrase for antecedent,
and the same for complement. It characterizes the point of view under the sway of which the
relations should be regarded: restrictive, as but; hypothetical or conditional, as if? conclusive,
as then, etc., etc. The conjunction presents a general view to our thought, it is the reunion
of scattered facts; it is essentially elliptical.

10. The interjection responds to those circumstances where the soul, moved and shaken by a
crowd of emotions at once, feels that by uttering a phrase it would be far from expressing
what it experiences. It then exhales a sound, and confides to gesture the transmission of its
emotion.

The interjection is essentially elliptical, because, expressing nothing in itself, it expresses
at the time all that the gesture desires it to express, for ellipsis is a hidden sense, the
revelation of which belongs exclusively to gesture.

It must first be noted that these degrees are numbered from one to nine, and that, of all the
grammatical values defined, the conjunction, interjection and adverb are classed highest.

Delsarte made the following experiment one day in the "Circle of Learned Societies," during
a lecture:

"Which word," he asked his audience, "requires most emphasis in the lines--

     "The wave draws near, it breaks, and vomits up before our eyes,
     Amid the surging foam, a monster huge of size?"

The absence of any rule applicable to the subject caused the most complete anarchy among the
listeners. One thought that the word to be emphasized must be monster--as indicating an object
of terror; another gave the preference to the adjective huge. Still another thought that vomits
demanded the most expressive accent, from the ugliness of that which it expresses.

Delsarte repeated the lines:

     "The wave draws near, it breaks, and ... vomits up before our
     eyes."

It was on the word and that he concentrated all the force of his accent; but giving it, by
gesture, voice and facial expression, all the significance lacking to that particle, colorless
in itself, as he pronounced the word, the fixity of his gaze, his trembling hands, his body
shrinking back into itself, while his feet seemed riveted to the earth, all presaged something
terrible and frightful. He saw what he was about to relate, he made you see it; the conjunction,
aided by the actor's pantomime, opened infinite perspectives to the imagination; his words
had only to specify the fact, and to justify the emotion which had accumulated in the interval.

But this particle, which here allows of eight degrees, is much diminished when it fills the
office of a simple copulative. The extent of the word or the syllable is always subordinate
to the sense of the phrase; in the latter case it does not require more than the figure 2.

Chapter V.

The Recitation of Fables.

Some years before his death Delsarte substituted for his concerts, lectures in which he explained
his scientific doctrines and his philosophy of art. He also supplied the place of song by the
recitation of certain fables selected from La Fontaine. He was not less perfect in this style
than in the interpretation of the great rôles of tragedy and grand lyric poems; but it must
be acknowledged, that under this new guise, his talent could not display itself in all its
amplitude; save for the facial expression which gave the lessons of the apologue a variety
of outline of which La Fontaine himself perhaps never dreamed ... and in spite of the fine
and scholarly accent which he could give to all those clever beasts, he was, on many points,
deprived of his power and his prestige: how endow a lion with the proud poses of Achilles;
and lend the foolish grasshopper the satanic charm of Armida?

Instead of noble or terrific attitudes, his gesture was confined to a few movements of forearm
or hand; of his fingers, when the intentions were more subtle, more refined ... Still it was
always most pleasant to hear him. It was Delsarte restrained, but not diminished. If you did
not recover in his speaking voice that sort of enchantment with which his slightly-veiled tone
pierced the soul, his accent remained so pure, so intelligent, that you were none the less
ravished.

When, in the fable of The Two Pigeons, he said:

    "Absence is the greatest of ills, ...
      Not so for you, cruel one!"

He discovered shades, hitherto unknown, with which to paint reproach mingled with grief. And
when he said:

    "The ant ... is not a lender!..."

A more affirmative and striking sense of the character attributed to our thrifty friend, was
detached from this delay, filled up by a negative movement of the narrator's head.

If Delsarte had limited himself in his lectures, to teaching men by means of the menagerie,
which was a sly burlesque of the courtiers of Louis XIV., perhaps he might have made idolatrous
partisans there as elsewhere; but it seems as if in the exposition of his theory, he posed
rather as a censor than a teacher; he delighted in baffling the mind by paradoxes. By annexes
superimposed and ill-blended with his system, he sometimes compromised those scientific truths
whose splendor bursts forth when they are freed from heterogeneous accessories. We cannot otherwise
explain the resistance of certain minds, distinguished otherwise, to the recognition in him
of the artist who excited the enthusiasm of all the most competent critics and brilliant amateurs.

Chapter VI.

The Law of Æsthetics.

However striking and superior the system of François Delsarte has been shown to be, however
admirable and attractive the manifestation of art in his person,--herein lie not his first
rights to the grateful sympathy which we owe to his memory. His works and discoveries in æsthetics
are a benefit of general interest, while they disclose to us the fruitful resources of his genius.

In the first place, what is a law? We have here to deal, not with the legislation decreed by
man for the regulation of social and political relations, but with those laws deduced from
a natural order, as the principle of life itself, which govern the relations of beings and
of things. In religion these laws are its dogmas and mysteries; philosophically speaking, the
laws of things are the essentials of their nature, their specific relations.

Voltaire has written: "Law is the instinct by which we feel justice." In Littré's Dictionary
we find stated that "laws are conditions imposed by circumstances." Another has said: "The
constant, uneludable succession in which phenomena occur, takes the name of law."

I would here state, that in no one of the last three citations does the word "law" seem to
me to be precisely defined. From the different explanations of the natural laws which I have
been able to compare, I conclude that laws are forces containing in themselves the reasons,
to us unknown, of a power and permanence which are unchangeable. Plato named them ideas. We
must now conclude that the nature of a law, in the present acceptation of the term, can be
but imperfectly interpreted by exact formulæ. Laws are still much involved in the secrets of
creation. Here must we seek their origin or origins.

But courage still! Although these formulæ but imperfectly define law, the facts suffice to
establish them. They (facts) show the certain action and, as stated heretofore, the uneludable
nature of these formulæ.

But the discovery of Delsarte is the application to æsthetics of a natural law, proven and
established by science. This law is that which governs the system of man's organism. Its present
application is justified by a series of scientifically coördinated facts. Delsarte rests upon
the principle that man is the object of art. Thus the artist should aim to manifest human nature
in its three modalities, in its three phases which the master named life, soul and mind. In
other words, the beings physical, moral and mental.

These three expressions figure in the work of Pierre Leroux (De l'Humanité) in the following
equivalent terms: sensation, sentiment, knowledge. But Leroux applied to ethics this law of
human organism, whereas Delsarte derived from it the law of æsthetics. When two minds of this
stamp are thus led, each in his own way, to the same source of analogous principles differently
applied, is it not a proof that they have stated truth? And in this case it is more than presumable
that the two men of whom I speak had never worked together. Delsarte was a philosopher in spite
of himself. With Pierre Leroux art was only an element contingent upon a system which he elaborated.

Was Delsarte led to his classification of man's nature by the doctrine of the three persons
in the Trinity combined in unity? Was he, by his observations upon the human triplicity, led
on to consider their infinite development in the divine personalities? I know not, nor is it
of importance in considering the system.

Leroux affirmed a relation between the unity of man and the universality of his pantheism;
both relying at the outset upon an idea at once religious and philosophical. But the research
of Leroux was philosophically inclined, while that of Delsarte was of a character more especially
religious.

Is it necessary to urge that you accept this obviously primitive classification of the human
faculties? Who, that shall have considered a moment to convince himself, can doubt this truth,--that
our sensations, our sentiments, our understanding, are the principal elements of our life,
and that all that we are able to know of ourselves is made known to us by them directly, or
by the result of their combinations? This consideration will soon lead us to the rational development
of the theory of Delsarte. For the present, it suffices to receive these principles as they
have been presented to us, and to admit that art could not go far astray while following a
clue leading from a law invincible, and guiding to a science as positive as that of the astronomer,
derived from the law of attraction, or that of the chemist, depending upon the law of affinities.
Here need be no confusion. The science is positive. The mystery of the natural law implies
a hypothesis,--even were the proposition negative.

Delsarte insisted upon the influence of a religious sentiment in art, as a part of the constitutive
animating faculties of the human being. In the light of this proposition his enemies maintain
that he teaches this heresy: that success in æsthetics depends upon a definite faith--even
upon the observance of the Catholic religion! This distinction between religion and creed,
between sentiment and assertion, I have followed carefully since the beginning of my study.
Delsarte was able to so address his pupils at the beginning of a lecture, as to arouse the
apathetic, and electrify the passionate; but his teaching was far from dogmatic. I do not say
that at times, in his aspirations and dreams, which he regarded perhaps as intuitions, this
religious philosophy did not make some incursions into the region of mysticism. I have seen
at his home charts named from the circumincession,[7] and classifying celestial spirits; but
these trans-mundane personifications found no place in his practical lectures. They are not
found in the great synthetical chart which I possess, and which recapitulates the system as
the master arranged it in the strength of his youth and genius, free from all mystical element.

When, in 1859, I submitted to Delsarte my treatise containing a succinct statement of his method,
he said to me: "You have not followed me so far as the angels."

I replied: "I have related and recognized as truth all that I have heard you teach upon the
laws of art as deduced from the relations of the human faculties, because I have observed and
verified it among people and upon myself. But I speak not of things which you have never shown
me, and whose existence you have never demonstrated. The angels are of this number."

Yet he received with no less approval my profane work. And it is the judgment which he placed
upon that essay which authorizes my resuming the subject, augmented by further developments
and evidence.

I should not state with so great confidence this great truth--the application of a natural
law to a succession of discoveries constituting a science, an incontestable innovation--were
I not able to refer to competent opinions supporting my statement. A few of these opinions
I would here quote from some of the journals I have examined, many of which thoroughly appreciated
Delsarte throughout the long period of his teaching.

It was said by Adolphe Guéroult (Presse, May 15, 1858): "To discover and produce wonderful
effects, is preëminently the characteristic of great artists, but never, so far as I can learn,
has it occurred to any one, before Delsarte, to attach these strokes of genius to positive
laws." And further: "The eloquent secrets of pantomime, the imperceptible movements which,
in great actors, so forcibly impress us, coming under the observation of this discoverer, were
by him analyzed and synthetized in accordance with laws whose clearness and simplicity render
them doubly admirable."

I give also some statements from the Journal des Débats (May 10, 1859). Though in the following
the word "law" does not appear, it bears interestingly upon the relations of the ideas and
expressions under consideration. The quotation is:--

"The audience was charmed and instructed. It applauded the new definitions. It divined the
essence of each art, and comprehended that the various manifestations of art are classified
according to the classifications of the human faculties. It knows why each passion produces
each accent: 'because the accent is the modulation of the soul,' and why a given emotion produces
a given expression of the face, gesture and attitude of the body."

When we allow that "the classifications of the manifestations of art are made according to
those of the human faculties," do we not also allow that they are derived from one law?

Thus the fiat lux ("let there be light") is pronounced. Art departs from chaos, escapes from
anarchy; it acts no longer only for the so-called artist, but also for the actor and singer,
whom we are now to consider. Art has to do with the pose of the body, a graceful carriage,
distinct pronunciation and an unconscious command of dramatic effects. For a tenor to phrase
agreeably, vocalize skilfully, giving us resonant chest-tones, no longer suffices to gain for
him the title of great singer.

The followers of art should be able, before and above all, to portray humanity in its essential
truth, and according to the original tendency of each type. Mannerism and affectation should
forever be proscribed--unless they are imitated as an exercise--but all the excellence that
chance has produced up to the present time should be incorporated in the new science.

Moreover, by referring to a law the occasional successes which come to one, it becomes possible
to reproduce them at will.

The essential point is to get back to the truth, to express the passions and emotions as nature
manifests them, and not to repeat mechanically a series of conventional proceedings which are
violations of the natural law. "Effects should be the echoes of a situation clearly comprehended
and completely felt,"--such was the import of this teaching.

One of the great benefits arising from the discoveries of Delsarte is the reconciliation of
freedom and restraint. If it bind the artist by determinate rules, it is in order to free him
from routine, to recall him to the general law of being and of his own individuality. It is
in order that he may study himself, in the place of submitting to arbitrary prescriptions.
In such study every marked personality will find itself in its native element.

As for those who have no vocation, and in whom the "ego" distinguishes itself so little from
the multitude that it remains lost in it, it is best that they should withdraw, since they
are not called. They have in view only vanity or speculation, and must always be intruders
in the sacred temple of art.

"My glass is not large, but I drink from my glass," said Alfred de Musset. Very well! let each
one drink from his glass, but observe! it is not necessary that in the true artist all should
be individual and peculiar. It is necessary only that there should exist a degree of individuality,
something novel, a distinguishing tone and an artistic physiognomy peculiarly his own. Servile
imitations, plagiarism, stupid adaptations, put to death all art and all poetry. In literature
particularly is such decline most easy.

Hoping that, from what has been said, you have been led more fully to appreciate the advantage
of seeing all of the branches of intellectual culture led out of the ruts of routine, away
from plagiarism and from disorder and anarchy, one word upon the most distasteful and effectual
blight to which art is subject--the loss of naturalness, viz., affectation. Can anything be
more irritating than an affected actor or singer, caterers to perverted tastes?

In sculpture what is more displeasing than a distorted figure, which aimed at grace and is
become a caricature? Affectation is in the arts the equivalant of sophistry in logic, of the
false in morals, of hypocrisy in religion. It is not extravagant to assume that affectation,
being a falsity, an active lie, is a torture to the spirit which perceives it, and a wrong
to the honest souls who endure it. It should be, therefore, for twofold cause, banished without
pity from the realm of æsthetics. Why should the natural, which is the expression of truth,
have so great an attraction if affectation--its enemy and incumbrance--aroused not our impatience
or disdain?

How is it that in children of all classes we find grace, ravishing and inimitable? It is because
in them the accord is perfect between the look, the smile, the gesture and the impression within,
of which they are the interpreters--the adequate signs, as Delsarte would say--the perfidious
flexibility of words never interposing to alter the harmony.

True grace in adults is not that which is studied, nor that which is artistically copied from
a badly-chosen type. Grace is born of itself, the natural fruit of the culture of the mind,
of elevated thoughts and noble sentiments. It is a combination of excellences which come unconsciously
to some privileged beings. To imitate beautiful effects in nature, to surprise their expressions,
after having observed and established the relation of cause to effect,--this is the end to
which the discovery of Delsarte would lead us.

As it is difficult for each to find ready at his command the elements for such research, how
can we overestimate the great value of establishing schools in which the instruction of students
of the great art shall be guided in accordance with the established laws of æsthetics? The
time of greatest necessity is the immediate present, since the voice of the people cries loudly
through the press, "Art is decaying and will surely die!"

"Barriers are also supports," said Madame de Staël; and what more sure support in the decadence
which threatens us, than a positive science deduced from irrefragable law! I say irrefragable
with conviction. Though human laws be subject to change, the laws of nature are shown to be
immutable, at least so far as the observations of learned men of all ages have been able to
establish them.

To such assertions one objection arises: Why, admitting that the human organism furnishes exact
and complete means of manifesting art in all the departments of æsthetics, should not others
before Delsarte have discovered that correlation? I have conscientiously considered and sought
light in this direction, and the result of my research furnishes me only a negation. Although
I do not here attempt a complete study of the philosophy of art, nor a general history of the
arts, I have sought to discover all that could warrant one in presuming the discovery of a
law of æsthetics in antiquity, particularly among the Greeks.

I find that in the writings of Socrates, Plato and Aristotle--who are the best authorities--art
was a dependence upon philosophy; that is to say, one with it, having no law outside of it.
(Whereas, in the work of Delsarte, æsthetics occupies the first place, and philosophy becomes
accessory.)

I will here enter into some details of the ancient teachings.

Socrates gave to his teachings a practical character founded upon the knowledge of man. He
took for his point of departure man himself, and established (according to this idea) a morality
with the motto of the temple of Delphi,--"Know thyself." This doctrine related more especially
to ethics than to æsthetics--as later did that of Pierre Leroux--and it was far from being
able to direct artists in their work.

Plato often discoursed upon the True, the Beautiful, the Good. He strove to disengage them
from the concrete that he might derive some general formulæ. To do this he employed the method
of "elimination," a form of dialectics which I recommend to no one, notwithstanding its great
value and the services it may render, after all, to those minds endowed with patience. What
does he conclude in regard to art?

The Socratic and dogmatic dialogues--the Phaedo, the Gorgias, the Symposium, Protagoras, Ion,
Phaedrus--abound in allegories, aphorisms, and in aspirations toward an ideal, more or less
clearly defined, which end, however, not by any means in a discussion of art, but in such affirmations
as that which closes the first Hippias:--"Beautiful things are difficult."

In the Symposium we have a philosophical discussion interposed between two orgies. Socrates
there maintains his title of sage, but it is surely not wisdom which presides at the feast.
What light upon my subject? Do we here find any conclusive decision regarding art? No! We have
instead such statements as this: "It is possible for the same man to be both a tragic and a
comic poet." Then are made some reflections upon time in music. We can as yet discover nothing
like a law of æsthetics.

In this company, where are assembled the most cultivated of the Athenian citizens, they discuss
love and jealousy of a kind that the moral instinct of modern society can with difficulty comprehend.
But these dissertations are of no aid in the solution which I seek.

And yet the spirit of Socrates at times attained to great heights. He puts into the mouth of
a woman of Mantinea the theory which saps the old doctrine and presents monotheism. It is but
one step thence to Christianity, and it was Apollonius of Tyana, disciple of Pythagoras, who
established a connection between the idealism of the later Greek philosophy and the spirituality
of the new religion taught by Jesus of Nazareth.

Socrates, after a discussion upon those intermediate deities, whom he called daimons, and among
whom he places love, assigns to love an origin and strange attributes which, to a certain extent,
explain the remarkable workings of this passion at that time. He at once exalts and seeks to
make comprehended the new god--"Beauty eternal, uncreated and imperishable, a beauty having
nothing sensuous, nothing corporeal,--which exists absolutely and eternally." This is all.

Perhaps this ideal of love, as that of philosophy, may have been expressed in the foundation
of the religious ideal of Delsarte, but this encounter in the ethereal regions of theology
and psychology--where the human consciousness perceives nothing tangible, and whence it derives
only vague aspirations--implies no knowledge, of anything like a law, a science or a method,
such as our artist-innovator of the nineteenth century conceived and taught.

Aristotle, disciple of the founder of the Academy of Athens, divided the sciences into three
classes--logic, philosophy and morals. Within this classification art is closely bound, but
this philosopher made no scientific demonstration of it. His workings are not those of application
and execution. More than his predecessors, it is true, he considered the human organism and,
in this, his conception bears a certain analogy to the system of Delsarte. Aristotle, as well
as Plato, advised the study of nature, and seeking there the elements of the Beautiful; but
they had specially in view literature and eloquence. Further than this, their precepts are
counsels and have reference to no definite law. They have not shown the links of connection
between the human faculties and the mechanism which manifests them; they have not taught man
the manner of using his organs to express artistically his sensations, emotions and thoughts.

The Greeks had every advantage of models and philosophical schools, in which art was taught.
But they had no school of æsthetics. Artists of genius taught the schools more than they learned
of them; and these artists, so far as I can learn, have left no trace of theoretical works,
but, as before written, genius precedes and exemplifies law. While Plato and Aristotle placed
a beacon light upon the road leading to a law, they never touched the goal. Delsarte proceeded
otherwise. He starts with a principle clearly defined and everything harmonizes with it.

Have the historians and critics of the Greek philosophy discovered that which I vainly sought
in its initiators,--a law of æsthetics? This is a question to be answered.

Winkelmann, in his "History of Art," says: "The fine arts, in their rise and decadence, may
be likened unto great rivers which, at the point of fullest greatness, break up into innumerable
tiny streams and are lost in the sands." Still following this imagery, he compares "Egyptian
art to a fine tree whose growth is stopped by a sting; Etruscan art to a torrent; Greek art
to a limpid stream."

Now, the law of life of trees, streams or torrents, is not identical with that which governs
the unity of a human life.

Like Aristotle, Winkelmann states clearly the principle that man is the measure of all things,
but he does not follow up the consequences; he reaches no scientific demonstration upon any
point. Far from establishing the existence of a law of æsthetics among the Greeks, he simply
remarks upon the extreme simplicity of their beginnings, and shows by what gropings they came
from Hermes to the most perfect works of Phidias and Praxiteles.

Mengs states that "the first designs were of forms approaching human semblance;" and that the
sciences and philosophy must of necessity have preceded the Beautiful in the arts. He thinks
that the Greeks established the proportions of their figures by imitation of beautiful nature.

From these two commentators we have a history of the progression of the arts toward the Ideal.
Mengs states that the Greeks and the Etruscans have given rules of proportion and style. But
progression, proportion, style,--all of which proceeding from a fixed standard of beauty may
guide artists--the perception even of the ideal which each one interprets in his own way--cannot
be assimilated to that original law which carries in itself all the reasons of the concept,
that which contains all conditions and means of a true execution,--individual even to the perfection
of each type, general and varied as the infinite shades of nature.

In response to the allegation of Mengs, that "the sciences and philosophy must necessarily
have preceded the Beautiful in the arts," I would call attention to the fact that celebrated
artists--as Phidias and Zeuxis for example--had produced their works long before the dialogues
between Socrates, Protagoras, Hippias and others, upon the True, the Good and the Beautiful.
The great painter and the great sculptor could only have proceeded by the intuition of their
genius, knowing nothing of a law of æsthetics.

In that which remains to us of antiquity, I find nothing which implies such an application
of the human organism to the arts as that whose discovery, promulgation, exemplification and
teaching we owe to Delsarte.

M. Eugène Véron, writer of our day, and author of remarkable works on art, far from recognizing
among the Greeks a law of æsthetics, writes of Plato: "He considered ideas as species of divine
beings, intermediate between the Supreme Deity and the world. Theirs is the power of creation
and formation.... Matter unintelligent and self-formed is nothing, and realizes existence only
through the operation of the idea which gives it its form. Aristotle begins by rejecting all
this phantasmagory of eternal and creative ideas. He fills the abyss between matter and spirit.
God, pure thought and being preëminent, brings all into existence by his power of attraction
which gives to all activity and life."

We wander farther and farther from a law of æsthetics and its means of application as established
by Delsarte.

Of all the writers who have thoroughly examined antique art, Victor Cousin would seem the one
with whom Delsarte had most in common, if this eminent philosopher were not a contemporary
of the master and had not attended his lectures, his artistic sessions and his concerts. In
his manner of treating art, this is often shown bywords and forms and flashes of instinctive
reminiscence which recall the great school. In his book, "The True, the Beautiful and the Good"
(edition of 1858), the learned professor writes: "The true method gives us a law to start from
man to arrive at things. All the arts, without exception, address the soul through the body."

He is on the way, but his position embraces neither the starting-point, which is the law, nor
any practical means toward an end. For the rest, the nearer his propositions approach the law
of Delsarte, the easier it becomes to establish the radical differences which separate them.
Delsarte does not say that "the law is to start from man to arrive at things," but that "man
uses his corporeal organs to manifest himself in his three constituent modalities,--physical,
mental and moral."

It is very certain that works of art, like all concrete forms, can only be perceived by the
senses. Who does not know this? But that which is most difficult to comprehend, is the just
relation of cause to effect--as to the faculty and its manifestation,--and it is this which
Delsarte discovered and made clear. The one stated the action of art when perceived; the other,
the necessities of the artist in order that art respond to the law.

I shall have more than once to render justice to Victor Cousin. Inheritor of the Greek philosophers,
he allows dialectics too great margin. He wanders in his premises and arrives at his conclusions--when
he can. (Here, of course, I speak only of art.) In philosophy, Cousin, beginning with effects,
from induction to induction, often arrives at causes and states some principles. Delsarte,
perhaps, proceeded thus while seeking to combine his discoveries, but this accomplished, he
placed in the first line, synthesis, whence all emanates, and this focus of light radiating
in all directions, illumines even to its farthest limit, the vast field of æsthetics. Cousin,
after all, claims neither for the Greeks nor for himself the discovery of a law.

Proudhon, who represented the Protagorean school among us, humoring his whim, produced a work
on art. In this he declares that he has very little gift in æsthetics, and asserts himself
a dialectician, and we cannot deny his power in logic while he regards things from a proper
stand-point. Very well! Proudhon challenged the Academy "to indicate a method"--with even more
reason might he have said law of æsthetics.

Shall we, at last, find among the true critics of French literature any synthetic basis which
may guide us in all branches of art? What do I find in "The Poetic Art," by Boileau, the great
authority of the Augustan age,--rhetoric, beautiful verses, full of excellent counsel? I find
there wisely arbitrated rules, a sieve through which it would be well to pass the works of
our own times, including the verdicts which distribute the glory.

But the means of putting into practice these valuable precepts--the criterion to establish
their truth, the touchstone which may distinguish the pure gold--does not appear! In default
of these means of certitude, each may, according to his instinct or his pride, insist that
he has fulfilled the conditions prescribed by the author of the Lutrin, and judge his rivals
by the sole authority of his prejudices.

La Harpe and his followers have distributed praise and blame, and at the same time said what
should be done, but they have given no how.

More grievous still are the meanderings of the critics of our public journals. They wander
without compass and without rudder, approving or condemning according to their friendships
and antipathies; save those connoisseurs émérites, whose fine, sure taste and exceptional erudition
are rarely able to supply a law and state a reason for their judgment.

Among us, as among the Greeks, may be found artists who have given proofs of the existence
of the supreme theory of which I now write. Talma and Malibran--in another order, Déjazet,
and Frederick Lemaître, even Thérésa herself, have, in a greater or less degree, exemplified
this law imprescriptable. These artists, marked by nature with the seal of their vocation,
possessed that force of truth which produces sudden bursts of eloquence, great dramatic effects;
in a word, as before expressed, "the happy strokes of genius."

Yes, before and after Delsarte, there were and shall be beings conforming by instinct to his
law. But with him alone shall rest the honor of its discovery and first teaching, and of the
establishment of the science upon strong foundations.

It remains for me to examine the relations between the workings of Delsarte and those who have
treated the same questions concerning the terms (according to him, accessory), the True, the
Good and the Beautiful; and also to consider the value of each branch of æsthetics in the entirety
of the system.

Chapter VII.

The Elements Of Art.

The True, the Good, the Beautiful.

Though Delsarte be acknowledged the discoverer of the law of æsthetics, he may have held points
in common with many who before him had had presentiments of its coming and had instinctively
experienced its force. Premonitions precede the discovery as complements should follow.

The True, the Good, the Beautiful, constituent elements of æsthetics, have been diversely interpreted.
From his intellectual observatory, a zenith whence the artist-philosopher viewed clearly the
whole and the details, he may be supposed to have gained light beyond any which could have
come to his predecessors.

I will, then, resume my parallel from this point of view.

The True, the Good and the Beautiful were not made, in the school of Delsarte, objects of special
teaching. By definitions, reflections and illustrations of the master, they were shown to enter
fully into the science and method--a part of it distinguishable and inseparable. The master,
in his demonstrations, commonly employed various well-known maxims which were always accredited
to their authors. Thus, from Plato: "The Beautiful is the splendor of the True." From St. Thomas
Aquinas, in regard to science: "In creation all is done by number, weight and measure." From
St. Augustine (for he often quoted from sacred works): "Moral beauty is the brilliancy of the
Good."

But I must proceed in order. I owe it to the sincerity of my endeavor to explain first the
æsthetic work of Delsarte as shown me by his own teachings.

The True.

The True Illuminates the Thought.

To determine the signification of the True, we must first ask what is truth? It has been defined
as: "A fixed principle, an axiom." The term truth has been applied to such or such maxims;
but there are few assertions not subject to discussion or which would be accepted as decisive
without comment. They have not that piercing clearness which determines conviction by simple
apprehension or at first sight.

The dictionary of the Academy is more explicit in its statement: "Truth is the conformity of
the idea to its object." But a preferable definition is that of Madame Clémence Royer: "Truth
is the concept of the spirit in regard to the reality of things and the laws which govern them."
This philosophical statement is readily adapted to the True in the arts, which is acquired
by the observation of nature and adaptation of the lawful ideal.

How, then, may we recognize the True in æsthetics according to this definition? The artist,
first and above all, should disregard no law of nature, but when he aspires to great works,
"the concept of his spirit in regard to the reality of things and their laws" should lead him
to idealize what he sees, translating his personal conception of the Beautiful and the Sublime,
if his flight carry him so far.

The word Art is more comprehensive in that which it expresses, than the word True. Art completes
itself by its other elements, the Beautiful and the Good. Plato, and the philosophers in general,
treated of truth from the stand-point of philosophy rather than of art. Still the great Athenian
seemed to believe in a sort of celestial museum, where the artist, penetrating by intuition,
was inspired by a vision, more or less clear, of the masterpieces of divine conception.

Delsarte approached in a certain sense this very idea, but his doctrine of the True in art,
although depending upon the mystic basis of a holy Trinity, brought forth developments both
rational and scientific which leave far behind the Platonic hypothesis.

In the system of Delsarte it is no longer a vague ideal dimly perceptible, which must guide
the artist in the execution of his work, for the innovator says expressly that "the divine
thought is written in man himself." It is therefore at the command of every one who seeks truth
to make it manifest in art. In the new system, man being at once the artist and object of art,
literary men, sculptors and painters proceed from a basis ever to be observed and studied,
to rise from the True to the Ideal. Here the flight must be more rapid and, above all, less
deceptive than the purely mystic fancy of Plato.

We shall see in considering the Beautiful in the arts, that far from giving rise to arbitrary
and fantastic conceptions, the great ideal must become, according to the science and method
of the master,--the aggrandizement and the harmony of the faculties of the human being.

The Good.

The Good Sanctifies the Soul.

What is the Good in art? Here again the philosophical standard bars the way and demands priority.
What, then, is Good independent of varied feelings and of all the varied and contradictory
interests of human subjectivity which encumber it in the minds of the multitude of thinking people?

The Good, after this elimination, is reduced or rather elevated to one simple idea, so general
and requisite is it. The Good seems to be that which can give to the greatest number of beings,
existing in the universe (conformably to their hierarchy), the greatest sum of happiness and
perfection, considering, for humanity, the importance of the mutual relations of the faculties.
If this be true of the Good in life, is not a way clearly traced for art, whose mission is
to embellish existence? And, further, if it be incontestable, that man cannot transgress the
laws of his nature without wronging his intelligence and his happiness, even his strength and
beauty, how shall art merit our love and homage if its power be exerted to excite inferior
faculties and subversive passions? Are not poise and harmony the best conditions of existence
for the human organism? That which Plato demanded for the Beautiful in favor of the True--namely,
splendor--Delsarte demanded also of art in favor of the Good. His thought is summed up in this
formula, "Man is the object of art." Man, being artist, becomes the agent of æsthetics. Man,
in his humanity, is the goal toward which should tend all the efforts and experiments of the
art-moralizer.

The master maintained the possibility of reaching this end by two opposing ways, not contradictory;
i.e., the production of the Beautiful under its physical, mental and moral forms; and by the
manifestation of the Ugly under the same forms, exhibiting what he called the hideousness of
vice. Immorality may be rendered poetical and artistic, because of its being a corruption of
the moral, often preserving the imprint of its origin, even throughout its greatest errors.
Its agitation, its combats and its defeats interest the judgment and the heart. The Ugly or
unseemly, morally speaking, is the synonym of vice.

The Ugly in the language of the arts has many diverse significations. It is in these shades
and variable proportions that it affects our subject, but the depicting of repulsive things,
foreign to morality, to sentiment and to passion, has no right to exist in æsthetics. It may
be possible to cure a vice by showing its hideousness. But does this warrant such exciting
of the disgust of the senses? It is an outrage to the worship of the Beautiful, without compensation
of any kind.

There can be no advantage to humanity in exhibiting the hideousness of disease or the monstrosities
of certain natural phenomena! Open to them the museums of comparative anatomy, but close the
galleries consecrated to the fine arts! There exist also monstrosities which are not included
in these categories; they present no moral danger, but are disagreeable and repulsive to good
taste. They consist of fantastic forms, in accordance with the spirit of an inferior civilization,
reminding one of the misshapen and gigantic prehistoric animals, whose bones astound us, and
which disappeared from our globe that man might appear.

Among cultivated contemporaries these eccentricities spring from an inclination toward originality,
caprice, grotesque taste; from a similar impulse to that which directs literature toward burlesque
and parodies, and the plastic arts toward caricature. Such productions may please some distinguished
and intelligent natures which cannot have been highly favored in the distribution of the delicacies
of sentiment and the exquisite graces of wit. In a word, the art indulging in this class of
manifestations acts according to the mode simpliste. I borrow this term from Charles Fourier,
and I say once for all, that by it I mean not the entire, but the almost exclusive predominance
of one or the other of the modalities of the human being. Here the simplisme being altogether
intellectual, while it is inferior to manifestations in which the being expands harmoniously,
it wounds no essential in the synthesis of the me; while a predomination of the sensual to
the same degree is most pernicious to that which delights in it and antipathetic to those who
do not live solely in the material aspects of existence.

Existing among the elements of æsthetics, as the faculties of man, are certain dependencies,
connections, affinities, penetrations, which render an abstraction of one of them almost impossible.
Thus I have anticipated allusions to the Beautiful in considering the Good. By thus connecting
them, the better to distinguish them, I have reached the conclusion that moral evil should
never be manifested in the arts unless with the view of redressing it. In this case the better
its real characteristics are studied, the more strongly they are accentuated throughout, the
more successful the work will be from the plastic point of view, and the more power it will
have to repel those inward wrongs which it denounces, and this even though the intention of
the artist should not touch this result.

The Beautiful.

The Beautiful Purifies the Emotions.

At first glance, it might seem the privilege of each one to say, "The Beautiful is that which
appears to me as such." I believe in this regard, that the most capable artist, should he be
also the most perfect logician, would never be able to persuade sainted and simple ignorance
that it should not remain firmly grounded upon faith in its own impressions.

Place Hugo, Mercié, Bonnat, Saint-Saëns, Massenet, Joncières in the presence of simple countrymen--or,
what is worse still, of inferior artists and critics, of pretentious amateurs--and you will
see by what supercilious, incredulous gestures, being incapable of argument, this satisfied
ignorance will repel all assertions of the great authorities.

Should we, therefore, disregard this reluctance to recognize the features of the Beautiful
in great works? We must at least deduce from it the fact that the effect of art depends upon
some relation between the observer and the thing observed.

Notwithstanding the reality of the beauties of such or such a work, in the eyes of many appreciators,
the subjectivity of each observer should remain decisive, vis-à-vis to himself, as long as
he cannot be convinced by the authority of a law; and, finally, it is imperative that his comprehension
of that law should be rendered possible by preliminary studies. On the contrary, shall that
which has been recognized as beautiful by the initiated ever since artists created, and enlightened
criticism discussed and judged it, appear now before uncultivated criticism as without authority?

In default of law and science, there is a sort of universal consent among competent thinkers;
and their appreciation of the highest class of works is maintained by a process of adhesion
carried on by every conversion from ignorant blindness to the light of appreciation.

The question of subjectivity in the declared judgments in æsthetics has given rise to incessant
controversies which began, perhaps, among the Greeks and are going on among us. Though no absolute
decision has been reached, some excellent maxims have resulted. In default of an irrefutable
definition of the Beautiful, there have been given us images, analogies and thoughts upon the
subject which approach and prepare for such definitions:

Victor Cousin has said: "It is reason which decides as to the Beautiful and reduces it to the
sensation of the agreeable, and taste has no further law."

"Aversion accompanies the Ugly (unseemly) as love walks hand in hand with the Beautiful."

"The Beautiful inspires love profound but not passionate."

"The artist perceives only the Beautiful where the sensual man sees only the attractive or
frightful."

And, again, "That is sublime which presents the idea of the Infinite."

This last thought brings us to Delsarte, who, perhaps, was its inspiration.

The following valuable thoughts of the master, while not related scientifically to his system,
are still allied to its physical and philosophical aspects:

"Form," says the innovator in æsthetics, "is the vestment of substance; it is the expressive
symbol of a mysterious truth; it is the stamp of a hidden virtue, the actuality of being; in
a word, form is the plastic of the Ideal."

"The Beautiful is the transparency of the aptitudes of the agent, and it radiates from the
faculties which govern it. It is order which results from the dynamical disposition of forms."

"Beauty is the reason which presides at the creation of things; it is the invisible power which
draws us and subjugates us in them."

"The Beautiful comprises three characters, which we distinguish under the following titles:
Ideal, moral and plastic beauty."

By the enunciation of these three categories, Delsarte enters upon the positive aspect of his
system. As the result of the careful examination of the aptitudes or faculties of the Ego,
approachable by analysis and applied to æsthetics, he has established this first class of manifestations
(ideal beauty) as requisite to art. This must result from a combination of the faculties; the
possibilities of combination being infinite, but always in subjection to the human being. The
artist, according to this personal power of inspiration, should be able to portray a totality
of superior and harmonious qualities, such as will oblige any competent observer to recognize
it as beautiful. We have taken a step into the realm of the Ideal; that is to say, we have
touched that which, without departing from the law, surpasses conventional rule and the natural
types accepted for the Beautiful.

Before following the Ideal into its ethereal region, we will further consider the nature of
its foundation, which is a combination of the three mother faculties which Delsarte declares
to be, in æsthetics, the criterion of the law and the foundation of the science. We already
recognize these as the physical, mental and moral aspects of the human being.

The plastic art allies itself particularly to the physical constitution, but the physique cannot
be perfectly beautiful unless it manifests intellectual and moral faculties.

Moral and intellectual beauty reveal themselves in the human being under the empire of passion
and of sentiment, and the physique is momentarily transformed. The artist should seize beauty
at this moment of fullest perfection, above the normal conditions of human existence and perhaps
beyond possible plastic beauty.

Behold what glorious possibility for the direction of the artist's aspirations toward the Beautiful!
But even this happy chance by no means includes all of the possible conceptions of the Ideal,
and neither does it furnish us any absolute idea or definition. This vision of beauty, made
ideal by exaltation of the intelligence and the emotion, can only be perceived by the artist
of practiced observation and of that intuitive perception which is the gift of nature.

Again considered, the Ideal, being relative as well as the Beautiful, of which it is the exuberance,
we must remember that the word is far from corresponding to an idea of absolute beauty. Thus
the Ideal of an ordinary taste is not so high as that of a person whose standard of beauty
is superior, and the two will be very distant from the image conceived by the pen, the chisel
or the brush of a great artist. In many cases the Ideal is nothing but a searching for the
intention of nature, obliterated by the circumstances and accidents of life. Then the task
of the artist should be to reëstablish the type in his logic--a vulgar face may be portrayed
by a skilful brush--and, while preserving its features, there may be put into it the culture
of intellect and noble sentiments.

An artist, for instance, will see in a woman, whom time has tried, certain elements of beauty
which enable him to portray her nearly as she was at the age of twenty years. He should be
able to divine in the young girl, according to the normal development of her features, her
appearance at the complete unfolding of her beauty. Yes; in these different cases the artist
shall have idealized, since he shall have comprehended, penetrated, interpreted and rectified
nature. Still, he may not yet have attained to the comprehension of perfect beauty, such, at
least, as human emotion and intellect can conceive, and such as we love to imagine as inhabiting
the superior spheres of the universe of which we know nothing further than the dictate of our
reason, namely, that they are inhabited by beings more or less like ourselves.

When these sublime effects appear in art, it is as though a veil were torn, revealing glimpses
of a world of ideas, emotions and impressions, surpassing our comprehension, approachable only
by our aspirations.

Thus, Delsarte, superior to his science, has shown us the artist in full possession of all
that he has acquired, and the inmost charm of that which is revealed to him. In execution he
proved this truth: If talent may be born of science, it is genius which distinguishes the highest
personalities, and to merit the title of high artistic personality one must contain in himself
an essence indescribable, unutterable, which constitutes the aureole of grand brows, and the
sign luminous of great works of art.

    Thus, as virtue, art has its degrees.

Art, in its most simple expression, is the faithful representation of nature. If the conception
of a work or of a type is elevated to a degree of perfection which satisfies at once the plastic
sense, the emotion and the intellect, we will call it Grand Art.

Finally, if, in the presence of a creation, we recognize perfect harmony (which goes beyond
perfect proportion); if the work call forth in us that contemplative ecstasy which gives us
the impression and, as it were, the vision of pure beauty, shall we not recognize Supreme Art?

The system of Delsarte responds to all these desiderata of æsthetics. In his law he gives us
the necessary bases; by his science he indicates the practical means, by his method and illustrations
he completes the science and demonstrates the law. Where is place left for doubt or contradiction?

He stated what he knew and how he had learned it. In his recitals occurred innumerable beautiful
proofs of his greatness and simplicity, oftentimes more convincing than lengthy, involved argument
could ever be.

Some may ask: How can a positive science lead toward an ideal which cannot be touched, heard
not seen? Would not this science be the antipode (some would say antidote) of the mystic dreams
of Plato and of Delsarte himself?

Reply is easy. Delsarte recognized in our mental consciousness that desire for research into
the unknown which would sound the mysteries of nature. He did not disregard that intuitive
force of imagination which can often form from simple known elements the concept of conditions
superior to the tangible.

Between this nature, which we hear and see and touch, and that nature which the artist feels,
imagines, and to which he aspires, Delsarte has placed a ladder whose base is among us, and
whose summit is lost in the infinite spaces of fiction and poesy. By this ascent into the realm
of liberty, of personality and of genius, the elect of æsthetics shall mount and gain, and,
still maintaining their relations with the Real, shall bring down to us the glorious trophies
of their art.

Delsarte, foremost among men, had climbed the magic ladder. His exquisite harmonies in the
dramatic art and lyric declamation were beautiful indeed, but the æsthetic beauties which he
brought forth in the roles that he interpreted, must, alas! disappear with him. He has left
us the bases of his science, but who shall so beautifully tread the way--reigning by song amidst
a thousand accents of devoted enthusiasm!

Chapter VIII.

Application of the Law to the Various Arts.

We have now to consider each branch of æsthetics in the totality of the system, to be assured
whether or no this law discovered by Delsarte covers all departures in the domain of art. First,
then, the starting-point around which all is centered and from which flow all developments.

"Man is the object of art." This proposition applies as readily to the conception of literature,
poetry and the plastic art as to the more active manifestations of the dramatic, oratorical
or lyric art. Man being thus the object of art in all of its specialties, the part of the artist
is to manifest that which is revealed to him, through his three essential modalities,--physical,
moral and intellectual (in the words of Delsarte, life, soul and spirit, with the divisions
and subdivisions that they allow), as has been clearly stated in the chapter upon "The Law
of Æsthetics," and further confirmed in the one upon "The Bases of the Science." But though
all of these primordial modalities appear in each concept and in all artistic manifestations,
the proportion in which each appears is indefinitely variable. It is a predominance of one
or another of these which classifies and specializes. It is the harmony, more or less perfect,
of the components of this triple unity which determines the value of artistic manifestations.
Under this law, then, come all of the arts, inasmuch as each, differing in subjects treated
and in means of execution, still has a common mission, namely, the revelation of impressions,
the intelligible expression of the thoughts and feelings of man. To be more clearly understood,
I will from this point consider separately the different branches of æsthetics.

Art--Dramatic, Lyric and Oratorical.

The proclivities necessary to an artist, actor or orator (intelligence being the first consideration
and beauty of minor importance) are: expansion, sensibility or at least impressionability;
a ready comprehension of the works to be interpreted, if not the requisite capacity to execute
them. One's particular vocation (or congenial line of work) is the first condition in either
of these departments of art, and into the consideration of this must enter that of physical
beauty such as the roles demand; always considering what has been named "the physique" of the
situation. In a word, these three aspects of art correspond to the predominance of that modality
which Delsarte calls "life;" this with the complementary share of the other essentials to maintain
a symmetry; this for the average "chosen." As to the individuality necessary for the creation
of a rôle, general statements cannot apply. It is one and entire for each. Should it reproduce
itself identically, it would no longer be individual. The strength of a powerful individuality
lies in the revelation of a type sui generis.

Thus Delsarte can never be reproduced. If by an impossibility an artist having seen him, and
being penetrated by his method, could assimilate the sum total of his acquired qualities and
his inmost purposes, still he could be but a copy, however perfect, since personality cannot
be transmitted. I could not pursue the demonstration of the application of the laws of the
human organism to the generality of the liberal arts without meeting an objection which we
will consider just here. Some one says: If the law of art is the same as that of the human
constitution, what need that Delsarte teach that law--will it not suffice for each artist-nature
to study himself in order to determine satisfactory means of transmitting (to spectators, audiences
or readers) the thoughts, passions or emotions which he would reveal, either by his pen, his
chisel, his brush, or by the fictitious personages which he incarnates? I answer, No! The expression
of nature by gesture, face, or voice will not come to the artist by inspiration nor by reflection,
especially in extreme situations. He may chance upon agreeable effects, and even moving expressions,
but rarely does a just and telling expression of that which he would express result from mere
chance. Caustic truth or knack--more vulgarly, cheek--comes of influence outside of one's self.
Upon one occasion Madame Pasta was heard to say: "I would be as touching as that child in her
tears. I should, indeed, be a great artist if I could imitate her."

Rare, indeed, are the artists who know how to weep. The sublimity of art responds to nature's
simplest impulses. By the study and work of Delsarte a science has been created, every fleeting
sign of emotion has been fixed, and may be reproduced at will; and this for the instruction
of the artist who may never have observed them in another, nor himself felt the impressions
which give rise to them.

Application of the Law to Literature.

It is hardly necessary to state that the predominance of one of the primordial faculties in
the actor would necessarily differ from that in the author of the drama or opera which he would
interpret. Literary capability presupposes more or less of philosophical aptitude and a predominance
of the intellectual faculties, and this not to the exclusion of a certain amount of artistic
and moral development in the truly great writers. It is in the field of literature especially,
that man attains to a creation; and whether his object be a fellow-creature or an extended
and enlarged ideal,--in either and any case facts have furnished repeated and incontestable
evidence, in support of the statement of Delsarte, that art is always defective unless it be
the product of the three essential modalities of being, acting in their relative proportions.
This statement is not to be contested; but here again these relations would vary among the
writers upon science, ethics and poetry.

The epic, most synthetic of literary productions, is no longer in fashion, because, perhaps,
of the growing rarity of heroes. On the contrary, simplisme is now deforming the greatest germs
in the drama and romance. The weakness often lies in the morality of the production, or rather
in its lack of morality, often so lacking that the author sinks to the level of producing repulsive
works and cynical pictures.

In view also of man's essential faculties, but from another point of view, St.-Simonianism
classed men as scholars, artists and artisans. Then were added the priests of a new order whose
nature, more perfectly balanced, was to furnish the model type of future humanity. This classification
had brought thinking people to the consideration and criticism of a system isolating and concentrating
all development upon one or another of the faculties. It was readily seen that thus sentiment
would rush to folly; sensibility without a corrective would soon become weakness; unbalanced
industry would lead to disregard of health and strength, while the triviality of the sensual
nature, unrestrained by mental or moral activity, would soon fall into hopeless degradation.
Herein was simplisme most bitterly condemned. Delsarte, ever studying relations between coincidences
in art and the revelations of nature, arranged a typical demonstration, as ingenious as logical,
of the action and play of opposing faculties. By most wonderful pantomime he showed a man tempted
to sin; then, touched by pity for the victim of his desire, at last transformed by the intervention
of the moral sense, he came by slow gradations to most elevated sentiments. One saw clearly
the courage of resistance and triumph in the sacrifice. Then, taking an inverse progression,
he slid from this height to the opposite extreme of culpable resolutions.

Delsarte was the author of this mute scene which contains the elements of a drama. The contemplation
of this wonderful effect leads to the conviction of the great value to literature of the fundamental
law, which may be applied to any and all literature, as a permanent criterion by which productions
may be classified and judged, in their departure from the simpliste form and approach to a
conception in which the constituent modalities of being act in harmonious accord. Here, again,
we have a fresh distinction between scientific and ethical literature, and that which may be
termed the literature of art. To this latter class belong romances, dramatic productions and
poems--works made up of shades of meaning and just proportions, which should be based on clear
and sound philosophy, prudently disguised but indisputable and imperishable. Here is place
for the grace of an agreeable wit and the elegant flexibility of a fruitful pen. More imperative
than in any other class of writing is the demand for individual touch and that harmony of construction
depending upon the proportionate relations of those elements of æsthetics,--the True, the Good,
and the Beautiful. Thus, through æsthetics, it is elevated.

To this literature of art belong the sonnet of Arvers, and "The Soul," by Sully-Prudhomme.
Musset, in his grace or pathos, is not inferior to Victor Hugo. There are, even in his faults,
certain effective boldnesses to which the author of "Nôtre Dame de Paris" cannot aspire. Whence,
then, comes the immense distance between these poets? It lies in the fact that Victor Hugo,
while he is a finished artist, shows himself also a thinker, philosopher, man of science and
erudition. Endowed with a profound humanitarian feeling, he is preoccupied with the evils of
society, with its rights, its mistakes, its tendencies and with their amelioration; while the
poet of "Jacques Rolla"--a refined sensualist--devotes his verse to the unbridling of the torments
of imagination in delirium, to the agitations of hearts which have place only for love.

If comparison be made between novelists and dramatists of diverse schools, why has not M. Zola,
who in so many regards should be considered a master, attained the heights of eminence upon
which are enrolled the names of Shakespeare, Molière, Corneille, Schiller, Madame de Staël,
and George Sand? It is because M. Zola, profound analyst and charming narrator, even more forcibly
than Musset breaks the æsthetic synthesis by the absence of morality in his writings. His fatalism
arrests the flight of that which would be great; he corrupts in the germ wonderful creative
powers! M. Zola's great lack lies in his considering in man his physical nature only. Between
mind and matter he holds a magnifying lantern full upon the lowest molecules, and rejects disdainfully
the initiating atom that Leibnitz has signalized as the centre of life. M. Zola has created
a detestable school which already slides into the mire beneath the weight of the crimes which
it excites and the disgust which it arouses. Should we blame Zola and his disciples for the
danger and the impotence of this method? Should we not impute the wrong in greater measure
to philosophical naturalism?

In considering materialism and naturalism let us not lose sight of the fact that while materialism
is simpliste, naturalism (in so much as it represents nature) is essentially comprehensive
and necessarily synthetic; harmony of force and matter being an invariable requisite of life.

Realism, another term strangely compromised, seems to proclaim itself under the banner of materialism,
while the Real, implying the idea of the True, cannot be contained in simplisme. It is a most
pernicious evil that writers, calling themselves realistic, still concentrate their talent
upon the painting of vicious types and characters drawn in an infernal cycle of repulsive morals.

"Man is the object of art." Never could the words of the master more appropriately interpose
than before the encroachments of literary simplisme. The man of whom Delsarte speaks is not
confined to such or such a category of the species. He proposes that æsthetics should interpret
an all-comprehensive human nature, which is not made up alone of baseness, egotism and duplicity.
Though it be subject to perversion, it has its luminous aspects, its radiant sides, and we
should not too long turn our eyes from them.

Artistically, evil or the Hideous (which is also evil) should never be used except as a foil.
There is no immorality in exhibiting the prevailing vices of the epoch, but this is the physician's
duty. The evil lies in presenting these evils under such forms as may lead many to enjoy or
tolerate them, giving them the additional power of a charming style and the specious arguments
of fatality. This is precisely the case of M. Zola. The glamor of his disturbing theory, which
annihilates free will, gives to his works a philosophical appearance. He conceals its vacuity
beneath forms of a highly-colored style, an amiable negligence and a facility that is benumbing
to thought. As he asserts nothing, no one dreams of contradicting, and one finds himself entwined
in a network of repulsive depravity without a ray of healthful protection or correction. In
comparison with the blight of this disastrous system of fatality, the coarseness of the writer's
language, so loudly censured, is relatively unimportant. The simplisme of M. Zola is not absolute,
as but one of the three constituent modalities is omitted, that one being morality. The lack
is, however, no less fatal, inasmuch as the void produced by the absence of one of the noblest
faculties of human activity must usually be filled by disturbing forces.

I have heard the theory, "art for art," supported by men otherwise very enlightened. "An artistic
production need not contain a moral treatise," they say, and this is quite true, provided the
artist be a quick observer, possessing talent sufficient to handle his subject harmoniously.
Vice carries its own stigma, and pure beauty surrounds itself with light. The author should
be able readily to distinguish the one as well as the other, and his precepts should come as
the harmonious result of his experience. But such a work, at the mercy of an ill-balanced brain
and unhealthful temperament, must yield bad fruit. Talent without broad and true knowledge
of reality, or that which is, instead of being invented, is incomplete in its workings and
results. Its creations resemble the light of the foot-lamp, of fireworks, of the prodigies
of our modern pyrotechnists--pleasing for a time, dazzling, captivating, intoxicating! But
lost in the life-giving beauty of a summer's night or a glorious sunset, we are tempted to
cry out with the poet,--

    "Nothing is beautiful but the True."

What can be said of the other simplisme which, in its search for the True, ignores the Beautiful
while it disregards the Good? Again, its partisans seek artistic truth in its very worst conditions.
Why paint in full sunshine, if the intense light obliterates details and confuses the shadows?
Does it seem a difficulty conquered? It is far oftener a disguised insufficiency. If my reference
to painting seem premature, it is because I wished to borrow an image to show how equally grievous
was the faulty touch of many of our writers of renown. Many among them seem striving to propagate
the culture of the Mediocre and Unseemly, as a thousandfold easier practice than the religion
of the Beautiful.

My present aim is to show clearly the influence of even incomplete simplisme, in certain pernicious
effects upon literature. Edgar A. Poe entered the realm of the fanciful after Hoffman, and
how is it that the initiator is less dangerous than his disciple? It is because of these two
simplistes, who have put reason out of consideration, the first addressed himself only to the
imagination, while the American poet sounded the emotions to depths where terror is awakened
and madness begins to sting. Hoffman has perhaps upon his conscience some readers confined
in asylums for the deranged, but the far more perilous hallucinations of Poe must account for
greater harm. The distance is great between imagination and sentiment, and should be so regarded.
This extravagance should surely not be allowed to usurp the place of morality, but this is
what is done, and greatness is not for them.

Another illustration lies in the transition intermediate between the romances of Balzac, Frederic
Soulié, Emile Souvestre, and Eugène Sue, and the poetry of Victor Hugo, Lamartine, Béranger,
Barbier and the impressionalist school whose decline is already at hand.

Of many names, which have acquired notoriety, I select the two which afford the best contrast,--Charles
Baudelaire and Jules de la Madelène. The first, among other eccentric works, has left us "The
Blossoms of Evil." In the ideas which it embraces it is the successful production of an imagination
misled and in distress; a pathological experience probably prompted the conception. In it one
reads beautiful verse of scholarly construction, and readily perceives an individuality and
originality of thought and expression; but no one would predict or desire that this production
should pass to posterity.

"Le Marquis des Saffras," by Jules de la Madelène, on the contrary, gratifies both judgment
and feeling. It is a spirited painting, acute and profound, as well as true, of human life,
especially of provincial life. The human being is revealed in all his aspects. Though the author
disguises neither errors nor weaknesses, he presents clearly the redeeming side--the simple
manners and the humble devotion of sincere hearts. This, then, is the reason why, sustained
by a style rich in grace and strength, full of the breath of poetry which is felt rather than
described, "Le Marquis des Saffras" holds its place as an incontestable masterpiece in the
choice libraries that preserve the renown of great writers.

A more careful examination of the doctrine of Delsarte--"The necessity of the concurrence of
the mother modalities of the human organism to fulfil the conditions of æsthetics"--but forces
the conviction that disregard of this requirement renders all sterile and incomplete, if not
monstrous. Is this equivalent to saying that the deductions from the law of Delsarte tend to
condemn in French literature its simple gaiety, its graceful lightness, and to efface this
stamp of the race that our ancestors have surely imprinted?

In works of the imagination the omission of moral meaning is often more seeming than real,
and every good reader should be able to recognize this. However, this negligent seeming is
far less hurtful than brilliant wit concealing crudities and modifying boldnesses. Writers
of this class do not lose sight of the fact that, while the French character has its audacities
(contrary to the modifications of æsthetics), our language possesses a proverbial chastity,
which, even in its farthest wanderings, genius comprehends and respects. Tact and taste suffice
to him who consults them to escape grossness of language. The delicacy of the allusions leaves
their images in a transparent mist; the very elasticity of the equivocation furnishes a refuge
for the thought which it disquiets.

By art some most delicate subjects, very nearly approaching license, have been pardoned. We
would surely exhibit a tyrannical and morose humor to condemn to be burned en place de Grève,
by the hand of the executioner, the romances of Manon Lescaut, and Daphnis and Chloe by Longus,
as they have been transmitted to us by Paul Louis Courier.

But when literature, realistic or materialistic (or whatever they please to call it), freeing
itself from moral accompaniment, shows itself negative or weak in its creations; if it be simpliste
to the point of appealing exclusively to the senses, limiting its means of action to the development
of the egotistic and instinctive side of the human passions,--its works have no longer right
of consideration in æsthetics. The consideration of the physical being should surely figure
in all representations of life, but it is not necessary that from a subordinate consideration
it should ever be made all-governing. The body, the essential part of our personality, is the
companion of our higher faculties. We should be mindful of it, making it as beautiful as possible,
but giving it the reins would be even worse than giving power absolute to the imagination.

Once more, impressionalism, without the control of science and of reason, has nothing to claim
in the spheres of the True, the Good, the Beautiful.

Application of the Law to Architecture.

The productions of architecture, like those of literature, have their origin in the realm of
thought. Architecture is not, like the dramatic art, in subjection to the person of the artist.
It is one of the plastic arts, and of them the most synthetic by reason of the number of agents
concurring in its harmony. Its dependence upon form is akin to that of sculpture, while the
value of color in its effects is only less than in the art of the painter.

This art, essentially comprehensive, demands of its masters varied knowledge and that power
of coördination which, according to the learned philosopher Antoine Cros, is the highest function
of the human intellect. The relation of æsthetics to the totality of the faculties is here
more evident than ever. After the manifestation of mind in the composition of the plan, the
architect's next duty is to please the eye. To this end he employs marble, stone, wood, bronze
or gold, and the result is that element of the symphony which responds to sensation. The third
and only remaining element of the trinity is sentiment. In order that, rising above its utilitarian
purpose, appropriateness and mathematical rules of stability, the architect may fulfil the
requisition of æsthetics and arrive at the "Grand Art," the remaining element as well as the
other two must be perfected in result. The perfection of this element of sentiment is shown
in the work by the impression of grandeur or elegance, of grace, severity or delicacy. The
triple necessity thus filled, the result is truly a work of art.

Application of the Law to Sculpture.

The relation of Delsarte's system to sculpture has already been alluded to. Its application
here lies principally in the realm of form. The sculptor aims to reproduce finest proportions
of face and figure. He delights in a beautiful contour and, as Mengs has said, "in lines undulating
and serpentine," while he studiously avoids all simple straight lines.

The more limited range of outlook demands more studied beauties and more significant expressions.
The statue--unlike the monument, which at once arouses spontaneous emotions in the spectator--should
express the human being, his sensations, his affections, his passions and struggles, and should
arouse an enthusiasm of admiration while it awakens sympathetic echoes in the heart of the
observer. Here more strikingly than ever must we recognize "Man the object of art." In the
light of this truth we should demand of sculpture the manifestation of the human life with
its constituent faculties, not in a perfectly equal accord which is never met in nature, but
with such predominance as the subject presents.

In Greek art the predominance is of the physical aspect. They had before them exquisite models
of plastic beauty; not the sensual beauty which is fleshly, but a plastic beauty consisting
of harmony of line and form. Let us further consider this difference as shown in comparison
of the Apollo and the Bacchus.

The Apollo satisfies alike the intellect and the eye by its beautiful outlines. [We are not
yet ready to discuss beauty of expression.] The Bacchus less ideal and more humanly natural
cannot so satisfy a highly æsthetic temperament. In neither work is there much of sentiment
expressed. The distinctively moral side plays a secondary part, unless we consider beauty itself
a moral factor,--a theory that may be sustained. In neither beautiful marble is there revealed
any sensual dominance, though the Bacchus, notwithstanding its plastic superiority, rather
inclines that way. The Apollo has been loudly extolled for the pride of its attitude and its
divine calm in the encounter with the serpent Python; and still it is said that "a god could
not have cause for so great pride in the conquest of a reptile." But the art-critics have exaggerated
the import of the figure, which is wonderfully beautiful without being accurately expressive.
The civilization of the new era has developed in man moral and physical qualities, which furnish
new expressions by which the artist may set forth that part of human life which Delsarte called
"the transluminous obscurities of our inmost organism." Dating from this epoch we find in sculpture
less of plastic beauty and more spiritual and touching expression. Who would compare the pathos
of the Laocoon to that of Canova's Magdalen? The sculptor Marcello (Mme. de Castiglione), too
early removed from an artistic career, exhibited certain creations which illustrate this difference.
Among them is a bust, in marble, of an Arab chief, which is after the style of the antique,
beautiful lines, without expression (a predominance of the physical element). In her "Weary
Bacchante" she shows beauty tarnished by vice, and here the predominant expression is sensual.
But in her "Marie Antoinette in the Temple Prison," as in Mercié's "David" and the "Dying Napoleon,"
it is not the marvelous beauty which entrances us, but first and above this reigns the power
of expression.

Sentiment is become predominant. In the "Marie Antoinette," what bitter disappointment! In
the "Napoleon," what disillusion with the toys of the world in which he had reigned! In the
"David"--Biblical subject treated by a modern chisel--what strange impressions and reflections
are suggested by that tranquil head and the wonderful frailty of the body! how original the
conception of the figure, and the whole a tribute to the high personality of the artist! Mercié
shows not only the work accomplished, but in this are glimpses of promise of greatness to come
which serve as more valuable proof of greatness than the masterpiece completed. This leads
me to a reflection already often alluded to, but which I would keep ever before you as the
foundation of my argument: "Man is the object of art." He is also the art-producer, and considering
relatively the two terms of the proposition, the manifestations of the faculties are not necessarily
adequate between the producer and the production. I will explain.

The best conditions under which an excellent work of art should be produced are undoubtedly
the following: The conceiver possesses in the highest possible degree of development the modalities
of being essential to the kind of creation undertaken, and these in their most perfect harmony;
but this perfection of intensity and of the relations of the elements of the concept by no
means necessitates the artist's formation of types at once morally, intellectually and physically
artistic. This depends upon the truth of his subject. That he embellish it, whatever it may
be, by his artistic interpretation and execution, is all that we should expect.

In the new manifestation which we now consider, where expression of sentiment is given predominance,
the artist, interpreter of the passions, sentiments, weaknesses and vices as well as of the
virtues and sympathies of humanity, must, in order to interest or chasten, show to it its own
image, which reflection will be most frequently not an ideal of perfection but a type of suffering
and vice, of weakness and depravity. A work will be successful in proportion as the chisel
shall be most indefatigable in putting in relief the virtue or the vice which characterizes
the subject. The greatest artist shall be he who renders most striking the characteristic predominance,
whatever it may be, of the type created or interpreted. To sum up: Art is proportional to the
faculties of the artist, and the work is the result of an application of these faculties to
some special manifestation of the human ego.

Impressionalism, as in the other arts, should be considered in two aspects: the impression
of the artist and that of the public or observer. The question then arises, what kind of a
public should be impressed that the artist may merit a place in the higher ranks of æsthetics?
While we have recognized that judgments in questions of art are the result of a certain sympathy
existing between artist and observer, we have decided also that in considering such a question,
all observers cannot be considered equal. In sculpture as in literature, where appreciators
are possibly more numerous, we must admit that knowledge and capability or even sincerity are
rarely of any weight in the balance of the grand juries of history or in the verdicts of contemporaries.
The ignorant multitude sanction the grossest works because these only come within their understanding.
Encouraged by the applause of numbers and by the lack of restraint which wins applause, artists
descend the rounds of the ladder of progress which step by step has marked the ascent of the
great schools and the great masters, and the result inevitably must be the return to mere sketches
in sculpture, and painting will diminish to imagery. This end is quickly and readily reached,
so easy and so fatal is the descent in these paths of decadence.

"All styles are good except the tedious," a well-known critic has said. Pursuing the import
of this thought, we are led to the speedy conclusion that the null should never enter into
competition. Nothing better than that the condition of priority should exist between diverse
styles and opposite schools; but why strive to institute comparison between a synthetic idea
and the absence of synthesis and idea, between certain proportions and harmony and the absence
of proportion and harmony, between a style and the absence of style? Whatever the subject and
whatever the mode of treating it, the intelligence of the artist should always be visible in
his work.

I am more and more thoroughly convinced that the theory of Delsarte, fatal to simplisme, is
the true theory of art. What can be more simpliste than impressionalism when viewed as a school?
It considers no law or science, disregards entirely analysis and logic, the Good and the Beautiful;
it is given over to sensation; vague impressions which are, whatever may be said to the contrary,
only the inferior part of man's faculties, indispensable surely, but that which we have in
common with the animals and little children; very interesting to observe among animals, a charming
grace in children, but a most unimportant factor in adult existence, particularly in the artist's
life, unless it be governed by the intellect and subject to the sanction of feeling.

Application of the Law to Painting.

If any art should be given over to impressionalism it seems as if it should be painting. To
see and to transmit what is seen,--is not this the true office of the painter, his undoubted
mission? Yes, on condition that the artist has the requisites for seeing correctly! And if
he rises to composition, he must also be endowed with a creative intellect, with a portion
of that mental power which will permit him to embrace a conception synthetically, and to coördinate
its parts.

Among the impressionalists of our time, there are assuredly painters of talent; but what talent
they possess is, as it were, against their will: the influence of tradition, the weight of
the medium in which they live unconsciously restrain them. Then, it must be confessed, this
impressionability of the artist has its intrinsic merits, if it is kept to its place and degree;
but it must be regarded as certain, that if the simpliste artist makes himself distinct in
his work, it is because he contains within himself more of the requisites for what he undertakes,
and because, without his having summoned them, the faculties of the understanding and the æsthetic
sense have come to his aid.

If Delsarte admitted the precept that "everything is perceived in the manner of the perceiver,"
he, of course, did not admit that every perceiver should make his own law: his conception of
the æsthetic trilogy would never have permitted him to open this Babel for the vanity of ignorance.

To finish with simplisme or naturalism, let us say that, carried to its utmost extreme, it
becomes a fixed idea, a monomania; has not impressionalism attained to this even in the choice
of colors? It has been said of certain painters that they had only to upset their palette on
the canvas to compose their pictures! Yet this varicolored chaos is not the characteristic
of the school On the contrary, certain favorite colors prevail; do not green and violet rule
almost exclusively in some of the most striking pictures from impressionalist brushes?

There are moments when we ask whether the impressionalists and their adherents are not obeying
an impulse to contradict rather than a serious conviction. In either case, it is time for many
of them to furnish proofs--that is to say, works,--in lack of the reasons which they have not
even offered.

After this digression, forced upon me by recent scholastic quarrels, let us return to Delsarte.

I have given the reasons for his doctrine in other chapters; this doctrine will gain strength
when I show what I have gathered from his science, since science and law mutually testify for
each other; since all art, acquiring fresh vigor from its source, law, and enlightened by the
aid of these same formulæ, must bear the impress of truth, beauty and goodness.

Even where color occupies in painting the place attributed to outline in sculpture, there are
in these two manifestations of mental images--and in spite of the synthetism peculiar to painting,--striking
similitudes.

As regards physical manifestations, both these arts should seek truth--which does not mean
literal exactness,--and all that has been said of simplisme, in regard to sculpture, is perfectly
applicable to that part of painting which treats of the human figure. Science and law lay down
the same rules for both,--save for the differing modes of execution.

It is another matter when it is a question of representing nature as a whole, and under less
limited forms: seas, mountains, the atmosphere and broad plains--landscapes of vast extent,--subjects
forbidden to sculpture even more exclusively than simple compositions of several figures, which
are seldom successful in sculpture. For if sculpture sometimes makes a group, if it is used
to decorate monuments and tombs, it offers nothing analogous to those magnificent phases of
nature which we find on the canvases of the great masters.

Delsarte, who from the laws of mimetics deduced for painters means of expressing correctly
every impression and emotion which man can feel, taught nothing in regard to this special field
of the landscape artist, who is not subject to the conditions of the actor, sculptor or orator.
But, if this aspect of art--save in cases where figures are introduced--does not come under
the head of certain statements of our science, not having to imitate attitude, gesture or voice--in
a word, anything proceeding from the human organism,--it is, perhaps more closely than elsewhere,
allied to the innovator's law: to that law which prompts the artist to respond to the psychical
aspirations of his fellowmen, and demands that in satisfying the senses, he should also arouse
or inspire the thought and feeling of beauty.

Thus the painter of nature, as much of a reality as man, but a reality in its own way, if he
desires to make nature understood and loved, must give it the stamp of his own ideas, his own
feelings, his own impressions.

Why should I care to be shown trees and waters, valleys and mountains, if the tree does not
tell me of the coolness of its shade, if the water does not reveal the peace of the deep lake,
if I cannot divine the rippling of the brook, if the valley does not make me long to plunge
into its depths! Why recall to me the mountain, if its curves do not rouse in my mind any ideas
of grace, elegance and majesty,--if its peaks do not make me dream of the Infinite!

However skilful the artist may be in the reproduction of form and the handling of color, he
will always be far inferior to nature if his soul has never heard the inner murmur of all those
mysteries of the sensitive, and I will venture to say, spiritual life, contained in forests,
waterfalls and ravines. Lacking this initiation, he will play the cold and flavorless part
of one who tells a twice-told tale; for it is in landscape especially, that talent consists
in revealing the painter's own feeling.

The charm of things felt is not produced merely by a grand way of looking at things: the mind,
the soul, occupy but little space; but where they figure, the canvas is well filled, and the
brush betrays their presence.

I remember, in support of my thesis, that at one of the annual expositions at the Salon--which
then represented the aristocracy of painting,--there was a tiny picture: a hut half hidden
in moss and flowers. It was almost lost among the portraits of distinguished personages, the
historic incidents, the scenes taken from fashionable life, and almost drowned in the bloody
reflections from the vast display of battle pictures, which, as was then the custom, monopolized
half the space.

Well! this canvas, a yard wide and not so long, held you captive, took your thought prisoner,
and inevitably impressed itself on your memory. You longed to ramble over its thick turf; to
enter that cottage whose open windows gave you the feeling that it was a peaceful shelter;
you loved that poor simplicity, which seemed to hide happiness.

Certainly the author of this graceful, touching picture practiced Delsarte's law, at least
from intuition.

Profound emotions are not always due to objective beauty; the beauty of the work is a thing
apart from what it represents. Who does not recall, in another order of talent, this effect,
due to the brush of Bonnat: an ugly, old Spanish woman is praying in a dark chapel; she prays
with eyes, lips and soul. There was never seen more complete absorption, more complete forgetfulness
of self in humble fervor. It was far more touching than all the types of sensual beauty, with
pink and white and perfumed skins--with delicate limbs, in disagreeable attitudes!

This is, yet once again, due to the fact that sentiment is stronger than sensualism; and because
the artist's skill, taking the place of beauty in his subject, becomes genuine æsthetic beauty:
so much so that, looking at old age and ugliness--as represented by Bonnat,--the spectator
is enchanted and applauds--the success of the work!

If, however, to perfect execution is allied beauty--not sensual, but æsthetic,--if it is made
manifest from the point of view of form, feeling and thought, the enthusiasm will be still
greater, because all the aims of art are realized at one and the same time.

Chapter IX.

Delsarte's Beginnings.

"The artist, a traveller on this earth, leaves behind imperishable traces of his being."--François
Delsarte.

We would fain prolong the faintest rays of all that glitters and fades too soon, and if intense
light is generated in a human brain, we strive to retain its every reflection. Nothing is indifferent
which concerns the nature of the chosen few; great men belong to the annals of their nation,
and history should be informed regarding them.

François Delsarte left this life at the moment when misfortune had crushed France beneath her
iron heel for some ten years. The date of his death--July 20, 1871--partially explains the
silence of the press on the occasion of so vast a social loss.

The circumstance of an artistic education, which was carried on in my presence, gave me opportunity
to collect a mass of incidents and observations in regard to the great artist who is the object
of this sketch.

I collected ideas in regard to his instruction, his method and his discovery of the laws of
æsthetics, which are the more precious that nothing, or almost nothing, was published by him
touching upon subjects of such supreme importance. It is my duty to tell what I know.

I have already established the bases of the work which I now undertake, in a pamphlet containing
several articles published in various newspapers. These articles were written under the inspiration
of the moment; they won the master's approval. I shall have frequent recourse to them to correct
the errors of memory and give more vivid life to that now distant past.

Delsarte was born at Solesmes (Department of the North), November 9, 1811. His father was a
practicing physician; but tormented by a genius for invention, he spent his time and money
in studies and experiments. Then, when he succeeded in producing some mechanical novelty, some
capitalist more used to trade and rich enough to start the affair, usually reaped all the profits.
This condition of things, of course, produced great poverty in the family of the inventor,
and the children's education suffered in consequence, and yet young François even then showed
signs of superior endowments. A missionary, passing through Solesmes, said to him: "As for
you, I don't know what you will turn out, but you will never be an ordinary man!" In spite
of this, his parents intended him for trade, being unable to direct his talents toward science
and the liberal arts.

Before proceeding farther, I must consider a question often asked in regard to the great artist,
and concerning which his family have kindly informed me.

For a long time Delsarte signed his name in a single word, as I write it now; why, then, should
we ever see it written with the separate particle, which seems to aim at nobility and which
gives us the form, del Sarte? I will give you the tradition as it is told in Solesmes, and
as the artist heard it during a visit to his native place. If it be fiction, it is not without
interest, and I take pleasure in telling it.

The natives of Solesmes say that at a very remote period a great painter, coming from a distance,
spent some time in their town. The good inhabitants of the place know nothing of the pictures
which this master must have produced; perhaps they are quite as wide from his name! But Delsarte,
struck by the probability of this poetic origin, filled with brotherly sympathy for the pure
and graceful talent of Vannuchi del Sarto, doubted not that the latter was the artist whose
memory is held sacred in Solesmes. Out of respect and veneration for the Italian master, he
divided the syllables, but still retained the French termination of his name.

We can readily see that an imaginative spirit, such as we now have to deal with, would be carried
away by the legendary side of this story, and that he would put full faith in his own commentaries:--he
believed so many things!

To return to prose and to reality, I must add that Delsarte based his sentiment upon partial
proof. Before the Revolution, the family did indeed sign themselves del Sarte; but an ancestor--imbued
with the principles of 1789, and anxious to efface all suspicion of noble origin--effected
a fusion of the two parts of the word, and left us the name as we have known it and as, perhaps,
we regret it.

Those who regard this change of family name as mere vanity seem to me wide of the truth. A
strange nobility, moreover, that of Vannuchi, surnamed del Sarto! Sarto may be translated as
tailor; therefore Vannuchi del Sarto would mean: Vannuchi of the tailor, short for Vannuchi,
son of the tailor.

What need had he of empty honors, he who was on equal terms with the great men of letters,
science and the arts, who was surrounded by the incense of the most legitimate enthusiasm,
and who received the homage of kings as of less value than the praises of Spontini and Réber!

I return to my sketch which will, I hope, justify these last remarks.

At the time of which we speak, the poor child was not treated as the predestined favorite of
art, He had been entrusted to people who ill fulfilled their mission. He was scolded and abused;
he was left destitute of the most necessary things. He felt this injustice, and, gifted with
a precocious sensibility, he suffered greatly from it.

François had as a companion in misfortune, one of his brothers, who could not bear the hard
life; born feeble, he soon succumbed. This was a severe trial to the future artist! When he
saw his only friend buried in the common grave, he could not contain his grief.

"I rebelled," he tells us, "at the idea of losing all trace of this tomb. I shrieked aloud.
I would not leave the mournful place!"

The grave-diggers took pity on his despair; they promised to mark the spot. The child resigned
himself to fate and departed. I will let him speak for himself:

"I crossed the plain of St. Denis (it was in December); I had eaten little or nothing, and
I had wept much. Great weakness combined with the dazzling light of the snow, made me dizzy.
The fatigue of walking being added to this, I fell upon the damp earth and fainted dead away."

What followed may be explained by the ecstatic state often experienced on coming out of a fainting-fit.

"Everything seemed to smile into my half-open eyes; the vault of heaven and the iridescent
snow made magical visions about me; the slight roaring in my ears lulled me like a confused
melody; the wind, as it blew over the deserted plain, brought me distant, vague harmonies."

Delsarte interpreted what he saw in the light of Christian ideas: it seemed to him that the
angels made this delightful concert to console him in his misery and to strengthen him to bear
his hard lot.

Rising up, the child felt himself a musician. He soon evinced an utter contempt for the china
painting to which he had been bound apprentice. That too was an art; but of that art, the angels
had said nothing.

How was he to learn music?

He knew that by a knowledge of a very small number of signs, one could sing and play on instruments.
He talked of this to all who would listen; he questioned and inquired:--

"Do you know music, you fellows?" he asked some school boys of his own age.

"A little," said some.

"Well! what do they teach you?"

"They teach us to know our notes."

"What notes?"

"Do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si."

"What else?"

"That is all."

"Are there no more notes?"

"Not one!"

"How happy I am! I know music!" cried the delighted Delsarte.

