At Boston I found friends ready to receive us with open arms, though they were friends we had
never known before.  I own that I felt myself burdened with much nervous anxiety at my first
introduction to men and women in Boston.  I knew what the feeling there was with reference
to England, and I knew also how impossible it is for an Englishman to hold his tongue and submit
to dispraise of England.  As for going among a people whose whole minds were filled with affairs
of the war, and saying nothing about the war, I knew that no resolution to such an effect could
be carried out.  If one could not trust one's self to speak, one should have stayed at home
in England.  I will here state that I always did speak out openly what I thought and felt,
and that though I encountered very strong--sometimes almost fierce--opposition, I never was
subjected to anything that was personally disagreeable to me.

In September we did not stay above a week in Boston, having been fairly driven out of it by
the musquitoes.  I had been told that I should find nobody in Boston whom I cared to see, as
everybody was habitually out of town during the heat of the latter summer and early autumn;
but this was not so.  The war and attendant turmoils of war had made the season of vacation
shorter than usual, and most of those for whom I asked were back at their posts.  I know no
place at which an Englishman may drop down suddenly among a pleasanter circle of acquaintance,
or find himself with a more clever set of men, than he can do at Boston.  I confess that in
this respect I think that but few towns are at present more fortunately circumstanced than
the capital of the Bay State, as Massachusetts is called, and that very few towns make a better
use of their advantages.  Boston has a right to be proud of what it has done for the world
of letters.  It is proud; but I have not found that its pride was carried too far.

Boston is not in itself a fine city, but it is a very pleasant city.  They say that the harbor
is very grand and very beautiful. It certainly is not so fine as that of Portland, in a nautical
point of view, and as certainly it is not as beautiful.  It is the entrance from the sea into
Boston of which people say so much; but I did not think it quite worthy of all I had heard.
In such matters, however, much depends on the peculiar light in which scenery is seen.  An
evening light is generally the best for all landscapes; and I did not see the entrance to Boston
harbor by an evening light.  It was not the beauty of the harbor of which I thought the most,
but of the tea which had been sunk there, and of all that came of that successful speculation.
Few towns now standing have a right to be more proud of their antecedents than Boston.

But as I have said, it is not specially interesting to the eye; what new town, or even what
simply adult town, can be so?  There is an Atheneum, and a State Hall, and a fashionable street,--Beacon
Street, very like Piccadilly as it runs along the Green Park,--and there is the Green Park
opposite to this Piccadilly, called Boston Common.  Beacon Street and Boston Common are very
pleasant. Excellent houses there are, and large churches, and enormous hotels; but of such
things as these a man can write nothing that is worth the reading.  The traveler who desires
to tell his experience of North America must write of people rather than of things.

As I have said, I found myself instantly involved in discussions on American politics and the
bearing of England upon those politics. "What do you think, you in England--what do you believe
will be the upshot of this war?"  That was the question always asked in those or other words.
"Secession, certainly," I always said, but not speaking quite with that abruptness.  "And you
believe, then, that the South will beat the North?"  I explained that I personally had never
so thought, and that I did not believe that to be the general idea.  Men's opinions in England,
however, were too divided to enable me to say that there was any prevailing conviction on the
matter.  My own impression was, and is, that the North will, in a military point of view, have
the best of the contest--will beat the South; but that the Northerners will not prevent secession,
let their success be what it may.  Should the North prevail after a two years' conflict, the
North will not admit the South to an equal participation of good things with themselves, even
though each separate rebellious State should return suppliant, like a prodigal son, kneeling
on the floor of Congress, each with a separate rope of humiliation round its neck.  Such was
my idea as expressed then, and I do not know that I have since had much cause to change it.

"We will never give it up," one gentleman said to me--and, indeed, many have said the same--"till
the whole territory is again united from the Bay to the Gulf.  It is impossible that we should
allow of two nationalities within those limits."  "And do you think it possible," I asked,
"that you should receive back into your bosom this people which you now hate with so deep a
hatred, and receive them again into your arms as brothers on equal terms?  Is it in accordance
with experience that a conquered people should be so treated, and that, too, a people whose
every habit of life is at variance with the habits of their presumed conquerors?  When you
have flogged them into a return of fraternal affection, are they to keep their slaves or are
they to abolish them?"  "No," said my friend, "it may not be practicable to put those rebellious
States at once on an equality with ourselves.  For a time they will probably be treated as
the Territories are now treated."  (The Territories are vast outlying districts belonging to
the Union, but not as yet endowed with State governments or a participation in the United States
Congress.)  "For a time they must, perhaps, lose their full privileges; but the Union will
be anxious to readmit them at the earliest possible period."  "And as to the slaves?" I asked
again.  "Let them emigrate to Liberia--back to their own country."  I could not say that I
thought much of the solution of the difficulty.  It would, I suggested, overtask even the energy
of America to send out an emigration of four million souls, to provide for their wants in a
new and uncultivated country, and to provide, after that, for the terrible gap made in the
labor market of the Southern States.  "The Israelites went back from bondage," said my friend.
But a way was opened for them by a miracle across the sea, and food was sent to them from heaven,
and they had among them a Moses for a leader, and a Joshua to fight their battles.  I could
not but express my fear that the days of such immigrations were over.  This plan of sending
back the negroes to Africa did not reach me only from one or from two mouths, and it was suggested
by men whose opinions respecting their country have weight at home and are entitled to weight
abroad.  I mention this merely to show how insurmountable would be the difficulty of preventing
secession, let which side win that may.

"We will never abandon the right to the mouth of the Mississippi." That, in all such arguments,
is a strong point with men of the Northern States--perhaps the point to which they all return
with the greatest firmness.  It is that on which Mr. Everett insists in the last paragraph
of the oration which he made in New York on the 4th of July, 1861.  "The Missouri and the Mississippi
Rivers," he says, "with their hundred tributaries, give to the great central basin of our continent
its character and destiny.  The outlet of this system lies between the States of Tennessee
and Missouri, of Mississippi and Arkansas, and through the State of Louisiana.  The ancient
province so called, the proudest monument of the mighty monarch whose name it bears, passed
from the jurisdiction of France to that of Spain in 1763.  Spain coveted it--not that she might
fill it with prosperous colonies and rising States, but that it might stretch as a broad waste
barrier, infested with warlike tribes, between the Anglo-American power and the silver mines
of Mexico.  With the independence of the United States the fear of a still more dangerous neighbor
grew upon Spain; and, in the insane expectation of checking the progress of the Union westward,
she threatened, and at times attempted, to close the mouth of the Mississippi on the rapidly-increasing
trade of the West.  The bare suggestion of such a policy roused the population upon the banks
of the Ohio, then inconsiderable, as one man.  Their confidence in Washington scarcely restrained
them from rushing to the seizure of New Orleans, when the treaty of San Lorenzo El Real, in
1795, stipulated for them a precarious right of navigating the noble river to the sea, with
a right of deposit at New Orleans.  This subject was for years the turning-point of the politics
of the West; and it was perfectly well understood that, sooner or later, she would be content
with nothing less than the sovereign control of the mighty stream from its head-spring to its
outlet in the Gulf.  AND THAT IS AS TRUE NOW AS IT WAS THEN."

This is well put.  It describes with force the desires, ambition, and necessities of a great
nation, and it tells with historical truth the story of the success of that nation.  It was
a great thing done when the purchase of the whole of Louisiana was completed by the United
States--that cession by France, however, having been made at the instance of Napoleon, and
not in consequence of any demand made by the States.  The district then called Louisiana included
the present State of that name and the States of Missouri and Arkansas--included also the right
to possess, if not the absolute possession of all that enormous expanse of country running
from thence back to the Pacific: a huge amount of territory, of which the most fertile portion
is watered by the Mississippi and its vast tributaries.  That river and those tributaries are
navigable through the whole center of the American continent up to Wisconsin and Minnesota.
To the United States the navigation of the Mississippi was, we may say, indispensable; and
to the States, when no longer united, the navigation will be equally indispensable.  But the
days are gone when any country such as Spain was can interfere to stop the highways of the
world with the all but avowed intention of arresting the progress of civilization.  It may
be that the North and the South can never again be friends as the component parts of one nation.
Such, I take it, is the belief of all politicians in Europe, and of many of those who live
across the water.  But as separate nations they may yet live together in amity, and share between
them the great water- ways which God has given them for their enrichment.  The Rhine is free
to Prussia and to Holland.  The Danube is not closed against Austria.  It will be said that
the Danube has in fact been closed against Austria, in spite of treaties to the contrary. 
But the faults of bad and weak governments are made known as cautions to the world, and not
as facts to copy.  The free use of the waters of a common river between two nations is an affair
for treaty; and it has not yet come to that that treaties must necessarily be null and void
through the falseness of politicians.

"And what will England do for cotton?  Is it not the fact that Lord John Russell, with his
professed neutrality, intends to express sympathy with the South--intends to pave the way for
the advent of Southern cotton?"  "You ought to love us," so say men in Boston, "because we
have been with you in heart and spirit for long, long years.  But your trade has eaten into
your souls, and you love American cotton better than American loyalty and American fellowship."
This I found to be unfair, and in what politest language I could use I said so.  I had not
any special knowledge of the minds of English statesmen on this matter; but I knew as well
as Americans could do what our statesmen had said and done respecting it.  That cotton, if
it came from the South, would be made very welcome in Liverpool, of course I knew.  If private
enterprise could bring it, it might be brought.  But the very declaration made by Lord John
Russell was the surest pledge that England, as a nation, would not interfere even to supply
her own wants.  It may easily be imagined what eager words all this would bring about; but
I never found that eager words led to feelings which were personally hostile.

All the world has heard of Newport, in Rhode Island, as being the Brighton, and Tenby, and
Scarborough of New England.  And the glory of Newport is by no means confined to New England,
but is shared by New York and Washington, and in ordinary years by the extreme South.  It is
the habit of Americans to go to some watering-place every summer--that is, to some place either
of sea water or of inland waters.  This is done much in England, more in Ireland than in England,
but I think more in the States than even in Ireland. But of all such summer haunts, Newport
is supposed to be in many ways the most captivating.  In the first place, it is certainly the
most fashionable, and, in the next place, it is said to be the most beautiful.  We decided
on going to Newport--led thither by the latter reputation rather than the former.  As we were
still in the early part of September, we expected to find the place full, but in this we were
disappointed--disappointed, I say, rather than gratified, although a crowded house at such
a place is certainly a nuisance.  But a house which is prepared to make up six hundred beds,
and which is called on to make up only twenty-five, becomes, after awhile, somewhat melancholy.
The natural depression of the landlord communicates itself to his servants, and from the servants
it descends to the twenty-five guests, who wander about the long passages and deserted balconies
like the ghosts of those of the summer visitors, who cannot rest quietly in their graves at home.

In England we know nothing of hotels prepared for six hundred visitors, all of whom are expected
to live in common.  Domestic architects would be frightened at the dimensions which are needed,
and at the number of apartments which are required to be clustered under one roof.  We went
to the Ocean Hotel at Newport, and fancied, as we first entered the hall under a veranda as
high as the house, and made our way into the passage, that we had been taken to a well-arranged
barrack.  "Have you rooms?" I asked, as a man always does ask on first reaching his inn.  "Rooms
enough," the clerk said; "we have only fifty here."  But that fifty dwindled down to twenty-five
during the next day or two.

We were a melancholy set, the ladies appearing to be afflicted in this way worse than the gentlemen,
on account of their enforced abstinence from tobacco.  What can twelve ladies do scattered
about a drawing-room, so called, intended for the accommodation of two hundred?  The drawing-room
at the Ocean Hotel, Newport, is not as big as Westminster Hall, but would, I should think,
make a very good House of Commons for the British nation.  Fancy the feelings of a lady when
she walks into such a room, intending to spend her evening there, and finds six or seven other
ladies located on various sofas at terrible distances, all strangers to her.  She has come
to Newport probably to enjoy herself; and as, in accordance with the customs of the place,
she has dined at two, she has nothing before her for the evening but the society of that huge,
furnished cavern.  Her husband, if she have one, or her father, or her lover, has probably
entered the room with her.  But a man has never the courage to endure such a position long.
He sidles out with some muttered excuse, and seeks solace with a cigar.  The lady, after half
an hour of contemplation, creeps silently near some companion in the desert, and suggests in
a whisper that Newport does not seem to be very full at present.

We stayed there for a week, and were very melancholy; but in our melancholy we still talked
of the war.  Americans are said to be given to bragging, and it is a sin of which I cannot
altogether acquit them.  But I have constantly been surprised at hearing the Northern men speak
of their own military achievements with anything but self-praise.  "We've been whipped, sir;
and we shall be whipped again before we've done; uncommon well whipped we shall be."  "We began
cowardly, and were afraid to send our own regiments through one of our own cities."  This alluded
to a demand that had been made on the Government that troops going to Washington should not
be sent through Baltimore, because of the strong feeling for rebellion which was known to exist
in that city.  President Lincoln complied with this request, thinking it well to avoid a collision
between the mob and the soldiers.  "We began cowardly, and now we're going on cowardly, and
darn't attack them.  Well; when we've been whipped often enough, then we shall learn the trade."
Now all this--and I heard much of such a nature--could not be called boasting.  But yet with
it all there was a substratum of confidence.  I have heard Northern gentlemen complaining of
the President, complaining of all his ministers, one after another, complaining of the contractors
who were robbing the army, of the commanders who did not know how to command the army, and
of the army itself, which did not know how to obey; but I do not remember that I have discussed
the matter with any Northerner who would admit a doubt as to ultimate success.

We were certainly rather melancholy at Newport, and the empty house may perhaps have given
its tone to the discussions on the war.  I confess that I could not stand the drawing-room--the
ladies' drawing-room, as such like rooms are always called at the hotels-- and that I basely
deserted my wife.  I could not stand it either here or elsewhere, and it seemed to me that
other husbands--ay, and even lovers--were as hard pressed as myself.  I protest that there
is no spot on the earth's surface so dear to me as my own drawing- room, or rather my wife's
drawing-room, at home; that I am not a man given hugely to clubs, but one rather rejoicing
in the rustle of petticoats.  I like to have women in the same room with me.  But at these
hotels I found myself driven away--propelled as it were by some unknown force--to absent myself
from the feminine haunts. Anything was more palatable than them, even "liquoring up" at a nasty
bar, or smoking in a comfortless reading-room among a deluge of American newspapers.  And I
protest also--hoping as I do so that I may say much in this book to prove the truth of such
protestation--that this comes from no fault of the American women. They are as lovely as our
own women.  Taken generally, they are better instructed, though perhaps not better educated.
They are seldom troubled with mauvaise honte; I do not say it in irony, but begging that the
words may be taken at their proper meaning.  They can always talk, and very often can talk
well.  But when assembled together in these vast, cavernous, would-be luxurious, but in truth
horribly comfortless hotel drawing-rooms, they are unapproachable. I have seen lovers, whom
I have known to be lovers, unable to remain five minutes in the same cavern with their beloved
ones.

And then the music!  There is always a piano in a hotel drawing- room, on which, of course,
some one of the forlorn ladies is generally employed.  I do not suppose that these pianos are
in fact, as a rule, louder and harsher, more violent and less musical, than other instruments
of the kind.  They seem to be so, but that, I take it, arises from the exceptional mental depression
of those who have to listen to them.  Then the ladies, or probably some one lady, will sing,
and as she hears her own voice ring and echo through the lofty corners and round the empty
walls, she is surprised at her own force, and with increased efforts sings louder and still
louder.  She is tempted to fancy that she is suddenly gifted with some power of vocal melody
unknown to her before, and, filled with the glory of her own performance, shouts till the whole
house rings.  At such moments she at least is happy, if no one else is so.  Looking at the
general sadness of her position, who can grudge her such happiness?

And then the children--babies, I should say if I were speaking of English bairns of their age;
but seeing that they are Americans, I hardly dare to call them children.  The actual age of
these perfectly-civilized and highly-educated beings may be from three to four.  One will often
see five or six such seated at the long dinner-table of the hotel, breakfasting and dining
with their elders, and going through the ceremony with all the gravity, and more than all the
decorum, of their grandfathers.  When I was three years old I had not yet, as I imagine, been
promoted beyond a silver spoon of my own wherewith to eat my bread and milk in the nursery;
and I feel assured that I was under the immediate care of a nursemaid, as I gobbled up my minced
mutton mixed with potatoes and gravy.  But at hotel life in the States the adult infant lisps
to the waiter for everything at table, handles his fish with epicurean delicacy, is choice
in his selection of pickles, very particular that his beef-steak at breakfast shall be hot,
and is instant in his demand for fresh ice in his water.  But perhaps his, or in this case
her, retreat from the room when the meal is over, is the chef-d'oeuvre of the whole performance.
The little, precocious, full-blown beauty of four signifies that she has completed her meal--or
is "through" her dinner, as she would express it--by carefully extricating herself from the
napkin which has been tucked around her.  Then the waiter, ever attentive to her movements,
draws back the chair on which she is seated, and the young lady glides to the floor.  A little
girl in Old England would scramble down, but little girls in New England never scramble.  Her
father and mother, who are no more than her chief ministers, walk before her out of the saloon,
and then she--swims after them.  But swimming is not the proper word.  Fishes, in making their
way through the water, assist, or rather impede, their motion with no dorsal wriggle.  No animal
taught to move directly by its Creator adopts a gait so useless, and at the same time so graceless.
Many women, having received their lessons in walking from a less eligible instructor, do move
in this way, and such women this unfortunate little lady has been instructed to copy.  The
peculiar step to which I allude is to be seen often on the boulevards in Paris.  It is to be
seen more often in second-rate French towns, and among fourth-rate French women.  Of all signs
in women betokening vulgarity, bad taste, and aptitude to bad morals, it is the surest.  And
this is the gait of going which American mothers-- some American mothers I should say--love
to teach their daughters! As a comedy at a hotel it is very delightful, but in private life
I should object to it.

To me Newport could never be a place charming by reason of its own charms.  That it is a very
pleasant place when it is full of people and the people are in spirits and happy, I do not
doubt.  But then the visitors would bring, as far as I am concerned, the pleasantness with
them.  The coast is not fine.  To those who know the best portions of the coast of Wales or
Cornwall--or better still, the western coast of Ireland, of Clare and Kerry for instance--it
would not be in any way remarkable.  It is by no means equal to Dieppe or Biarritz, and not
to be talked of in the same breath with Spezzia.  The hotels, too, are all built away from
the sea; so that one cannot sit and watch the play of the waves from one's windows.  Nor are
there pleasant rambling paths down among the rocks, and from one short strand to another. 
There is excellent bathing for those who like bathing on shelving sand.  I don't.  The spot
is about half a mile from the hotels, and to this the bathers are carried in omnibuses.  Till
one o'clock ladies bathe, which operation, however, does not at all militate against the bathing
of men, but rather necessitates it as regards those men who have ladies with them.  For here
ladies and gentlemen bathe in decorous dresses, and are very polite to each other.  I must
say that I think the ladies have the best of it.  My idea of sea bathing, for my own gratification,
is not compatible with a full suit of clothing.  I own that my tastes are vulgar, and perhaps
indecent; but I love to jump into the deep, clear sea from off a rock, and I love to be hampered
by no outward impediments as I do so.  For ordinary bathers, for all ladies, and for men less
savage in their instincts than I am, the bathing at Newport is very good.

The private houses--villa residences as they would be termed by an auctioneer in England--are
excellent.  Many of them are, in fact, large mansions, and are surrounded with grounds which,
as the shrubs grow up, will be very beautiful.  Some have large, well-kept lawns, stretching
down to the rocks, and these, to my taste, give the charm to Newport.  They extend about two
miles along the coast. Should my lot have made me a citizen of the United States, I should
have had no objection to become the possessor of one of these "villa residences;" but I do
not think that I should have "gone in" for hotel life at Newport.

We hired saddle-horses, and rode out nearly the length of the island.  It was all very well,
but there was little in it remarkable either as regards cultivation or scenery.  We found nothing
that it would be possible either to describe or remember. The Americans of the United States
have had time to build and populate vast cities, but they have not yet had time to surround
themselves with pretty scenery.  Outlying grand scenery is given by nature; but the prettiness
of home scenery is a work of art.  It comes from the thorough draining of land, from the planting
and subsequent thinning of trees, from the controlling of waters, and constant use of minute
patches of broken land.  In another hundred years or so, Rhode Island may be, perhaps, as pretty
as the Isle of Wight.  The horses which we got were not good.  They were unhandy and badly
mouthed, and that which my wife rode was altogether ignorant of the art of walking.  We hired
them from an Englishman who had established himself at New York as a riding-master for ladies,
and who had come to Newport for the season on the same business.  He complained to me with
much bitterness of the saddle- horses which came in his way--of course thinking that it was
the special business of a country to produce saddle-horses, as I think it the special business
of a country to produce pens, ink, and paper of good quality.  According to him, riding has
not yet become an American art, and hence the awkwardness of American horses. "Lord bless you,
sir! they don't give an animal a chance of a mouth."  In this he alluded only, I presume, to
saddle-horses.  I know nothing of the trotting horses, but I should imagine that a fine mouth
must be an essential requisite for a trotting match in harness.  As regards riding at Newport,
we were not tempted to repeat the experiment.  The number of carriages which we saw there--
remembering as I did that the place was comparatively empty--and their general smartness, surprised
me very much.  It seemed that every lady, with a house of her own, had also her own carriage.
These carriages were always open, and the law of the land imperatively demands that the occupants
shall cover their knees with a worked worsted apron of brilliant colors.  These aprons at first
I confess seemed tawdry; but the eye soon becomes used to bright colors, in carriage aprons
as well as in architecture, and I soon learned to like them.

Rhode Island, as the State is usually called, is the smallest State in the Union.  I may perhaps
best show its disparity to other States by saying that New York extends about two hundred and
fifty miles from north to south, and the same distance from east to west; whereas the State
called Rhode Island is about forty miles long by twenty broad, independently of certain small
islands.  It would, in fact, not form a considerable addition if added on to many of the other
States.  Nevertheless, it has all the same powers of self- government as are possessed by such
nationalities as the States of New York and Pennsylvania, and sends two Senators to the Senate
at Washington, as do those enormous States.  Small as the State is, Rhode Island itself forms
but a small portion of it.  The authorized and proper name of the State is Providence Plantation
and Rhode Island.  Roger Williams was the first founder of the colony, and he established himself
on the mainland at a spot which he called Providence.  Here now stands the City of Providence,
the chief town of the State; and a thriving, comfortable town it seems to be, full of banks,
fed by railways and steamers, and going ahead quite as quickly as Roger Williams could in his
fondest hopes have desired.

Rhode Island, as I have said, has all the attributes of government in common with her stouter
and more famous sisters.  She has a governor, and an upper house and a lower house of legislature;
and she is somewhat fantastic in the use of these constitutional powers, for she calls on them
to sit now in one town and now in another.  Providence is the capital of the State; but the
Rhode Island parliament sits sometimes at Providence and sometimes at Newport.  At stated times
also it has to collect itself at Bristol, and at other stated times at Kingston, and at others
at East Greenwich.  Of all legislative assemblies it is the most peripatetic.  Universal suffrage
does not absolutely prevail in this State, a certain property qualification being necessary
to confer a right to vote even for the State representatives.  I should think it would be well
for all parties if the whole State could be swallowed up by Massachusetts or by Connecticut,
either of which lie conveniently for the feat; but I presume that any suggestion of such a
nature would be regarded as treason by the men of Providence Plantation.

We returned back to Boston by Attleborough, a town at which, in ordinary times, the whole population
is supported by the jewelers' trade.  It is a place with a specialty, upon which specialty
it has thriven well and become a town.  But the specialty is one ill adapted for times of war
and we were assured that the trade was for the present at an end.  What man could now-a-days
buy jewels, or even what woman, seeing that everything would be required for the war?  I do
not say that such abstinence from luxury has been begotten altogether by a feeling of patriotism.
The direct taxes which all Americans will now be called on to pay, have had and will have much
to do with such abstinence.  In the mean time the poor jewelers of Attleborough have gone altogether
to the wall.

CHAPTER III.

MAINE, NEW HAMPSHIRE, AND VERMONT.

Perhaps I ought to assume that all the world in England knows that that portion of the United
States called New England consists of the six States of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, and Rhode Island.  This is especially the land of Yankees, and none can properly
be called Yankees but those who belong to New England.  I have named the States as nearly as
may be in order from the north downward.  Of Rhode Island, the smallest State in the Union,
I have already said what little I have to say. Of these six States Boston may be called the
capital.  Not that it is so in any civil or political sense; it is simply the capital of Massachusetts.
But as it is the Athens of the Western world; as it was the cradle of American freedom; as
everybody of course knows that into Boston harbor was thrown the tea which George III. would
tax, and that at Boston, on account of that and similar taxes, sprang up the new revolution;
and as it has grown in wealth, and fame, and size beyond other towns in New England, it may
be allowed to us to regard it as the capital of these six Northern States, without guilt of
lese majeste toward the other five.  To me, I confess this Northern division of our once-unruly
colonies is, and always has been, the dearest.  I am no Puritan myself, and fancy that, had
I lived in the days of the Puritans, I should have been anti-Puritan to the full extent of
my capabilities.  But I should have been so through ignorance and prejudice, and actuated by
that love of existing rights and wrongs which men call loyalty.  If the Canadas were to rebel
now, I should be for putting down the Canadians with a strong hand; but not the less have I
an idea that it will become the Canadas to rebel and assert their independence at some future
period, unless it be conceded to them without such rebellion.  Who, on looking back, can now
refuse to admire the political aspirations of the English Puritans, or decline to acknowledge
the beauty and fitness of what they did?  It was by them that these States of New England were
colonized.  They came hither, stating themselves to be pilgrims, and as such they first placed
their feet on that hallowed rock at Plymouth, on the shore of Massachusetts.  They came here
driven by no thirst of conquest, by no greed for gold, dreaming of no Western empire such as
Cortez had achieved and Raleigh had meditated.  They desired to earn their bread in the sweat
of their brow, worshiping God according to their own lights, living in harmony under their
own laws, and feeling that no master could claim a right to put a heel upon their necks. And
be it remembered that here in England, in those days, earthly masters were still apt to put
their heels on the necks of men.  The Star Chamber was gone, but Jeffreys had not yet reigned.
What earthly aspirations were ever higher than these, or more manly? And what earthly efforts
ever led to grander results?

We determined to go to Portland, in Maine, from thence to the White Mountains in New Hampshire--the
American Alps, as they love to call them--and then on to Quebec, and up through the two Canadas
to Niagara; and this route we followed.  From Boston to Portland we traveled by railroad--the
carriages on which are in America always called cars.  And here I beg, once for all, to enter
my protest loudly against the manner in which these conveyances are conducted. The one grand
fault--there are other smaller faults--but the one grand fault is that they admit but one class.
Two reasons for this are given.  The first is that the finances of the companies will not admit
of a divided accommodation; and the second is that the republican nature of the people will
not brook a superior or aristocratic classification of traveling.  As regards the first, I
do not in the least believe in it.  If a more expensive manner of railway traveling will pay
in England, it would surely do so here. Were a better class of carriages organized, as large
a portion of the population would use them in the United States as in any country in Europe.
And it seems to be evident that in arranging that there shall be only one rate of traveling,
the price is enhanced on poor travelers exactly in proportion as it is made cheap to those
who are not poor.  For the poorer classes, traveling in America is by no means cheap, the average
rate being, as far as I can judge, fully three halfpence a mile.  It is manifest that dearer
rates for one class would allow of cheaper rates for the other; and that in this manner general
traveling would be encouraged and increased.

But I do not believe that the question of expenditure has had anything to do with it.  I conceive
it to be true that the railways are afraid to put themselves at variance with the general feeling
of the people.  If so, the railways may be right.  But then, on the other band, the general
feeling of the people must in such case be wrong.  Such a feeling argues a total mistake as
to the nature of that liberty and equality for the security of which the people are so anxious,
and that mistake the very one which has made shipwreck so many attempts at freedom in other
countries.  It argues that confusion between social and political equality which has led astray
multitudes who have longed for liberty fervently, but who have not thought of it carefully.
If a first-class railway carriage should be held as offensive, so should a first-class house,
or a first-class horse, or a first-class dinner.  But first- class houses, first-class horses,
and first-class dinners are very rife in America.  Of course it may be said that the expenditure
shown in these last-named objects is private expenditure, and cannot be controlled; and that
railway traveling is of a public nature, and can be made subject to public opinion.  But the
fault is in that public opinion which desires to control matters of this nature.  Such an arrangement
partakes of all the vice of a sumptuary law, and sumptuary laws are in their very essence mistakes.
It is well that a man should always have all for which he is willing to pay.  If he desires
and obtains more than is good for him, the punishment, and thus also the preventive, will come
from other sources.

It will be said that the American cars are good enough for all purposes.  The seats are not
very hard, and the room for sitting is sufficient.  Nevertheless I deny that they are good
enough for all purposes.  They are very long, and to enter them and find a place often requires
a struggle and almost a fight.  There is rarely any person to tell a stranger which car he
should enter.  One never meets an uncivil or unruly man, but the women of the lower ranks are
not courteous.  American ladies love to lie at ease in their carriages, as thoroughly as do
our women in Hyde Park; and to those who are used to such luxury, traveling by railroad in
their own country must be grievous.  I would not wish to be thought a Sybarite myself, or to
be held as complaining because I have been compelled to give up my seat to women with babies
and bandboxes who have accepted the courtesy with very scanty grace.  I have borne worse things
than these, and have roughed it much in my days, from want of means and other reasons.  Nor
am I yet so old but what I can rough it still.  Nevertheless I like to see things as well done
as is practicable, and railway traveling in the States is not well done.  I feel bound to say
as much as this, and now I have said it, once for all.

Few cities, or localities for cities, have fairer natural advantages than Portland and I am
bound to say that the people of Portland have done much in turning them to account.  This town
is not the capital of the State in a political point of view. Augusta, which is farther to
the north, on the Kennebec River, is the seat of the State government for Maine.  It is very
generally the case that the States do not hold their legislatures and carry on their government
at their chief towns.  Augusta and not Portland is the capital of Maine.  Of the State of New
York, Albany is the capital, and not the city which bears the State's name.  And of Pennsylvania,
Harrisburg and not Philadelphia is the capital.  I think the idea has been that old-fashioned
notions were bad in that they were old fashioned; and that a new people, bound by no prejudices,
might certainly make improvement by choosing for themselves new ways.  If so, the American
politicians have not been the first in the world who have thought that any change must be a
change for the better.  The assigned reason is the centrical position of the selected political
capitals; but I have generally found the real commercial capital to be easier of access than
the smaller town in which the two legislative houses are obliged to collect themselves.

What must be the natural excellence of the harbor of Portland, will be understood when it is
borne in mind that the Great Eastern can enter it at all times, and that it can lay along the
wharves at any hour of the tide.  The wharves which have been prepared for her-- and of which
I will say a word further by-and-by--are joined to, and in fact, are a portion of, the station
of the Grand Trunk Railway, which runs from Portland up to Canada.  So that passengers landing
at Portland out of a vessel so large even as the Great Eastern can walk at once on shore, and
goods can be passed on to the railway without any of the cost of removal.  I will not say that
there is no other harbor in the world that would allow of this, but I do not know any other
that would do so.

From Portland a line of railway, called as a whole by the name of the Canada Grand Trunk Line,
runs across the State of Maine, through the northern parts of New Hampshire and Vermont, to
Montreal, a branch striking from Richmond, a little within the limits of Canada, to Quebec,
and down the St. Lawrence to Riviere du Loup.  The main line is continued from Montreal, through
Upper Canada to Toronto, and from thence to Detroit in the State of Michigan.  The total distance
thus traversed is, in a direct line, about 900 miles.  From Detroit there is railway communications
through the immense Northwestern States of Michigan, Wisconsin, and Illinois, than which perhaps
the surface of the globe affords no finer districts for purposes of agriculture.  The produce
of the two Canadas must be poured forth to the Eastern world, and the men of the Eastern world
must throng into these lands by means of this railroad, and, as at present arranged, through
the harbor of Portland.  At present the line has been opened, and they who have opened are
sorely suffering in pocket for what they have done.  The question of the railway is rather
one applying to Canada than to the State of Maine, and I will therefore leave it for the present.

But the Great Eastern has never been to Portland, and as far as I know has no intention of
going there.  She was, I believe, built with that object.  At any rate, it was proclaimed during
her building that such was her destiny, and the Portlanders believed it with a perfect faith.
They went to work and built wharves expressly for her; two wharves prepared to fit her two
gangways, or ways of exit and entrance.  They built a huge hotel to receive her passengers.
They prepared for her advent with a full conviction that a millennium of trade was about to
be wafted to their happy port.  "Sir, the town has expended two hundred thousand dollars in
expectation of that ship, and that ship has deceived us."  So was the matter spoken of to me
by an intelligent Portlander.  I explained to that intelligent gentleman that two hundred thousand
dollars would go a very little way toward making up the loss which the ill-fortuned vessel
had occasioned on the other side of the water.  He did not in words express gratification at
this information, but he looked it.  The matter was as it were a partnership without deed of
contract between the Portlanders and the shareholders of the vessel, and the Portlanders, though
they also have suffered their losses, have not had the worst of it.

But there are still good days in store for the town.  Though the Great Eastern has not gone
there, other ships from Europe, more profitable if less in size, must eventually find their
way thither. At present the Canada line of packets runs to Portland only during those months
in which it is shut out from the St. Lawrence and Quebec by ice.  But the St. Lawrence and
Quebec cannot offer the advantages which Portland enjoys, and that big hotel and those new
wharves will not have been built in vain.

I have said that a good time is coming, but I would by no means wish to signify that the present
times in Portland are bad.  So far from it that I doubt whether I ever saw a town with more
evident signs of prosperity.  It has about it every mark of ample means, and no mark of poverty.
It contains about 27,000 people, and for that population covers a very large space of ground.
The streets are broad and well built, the main streets not running in those absolutely straight
parallels which are so common in American towns, and are so distressing to English eyes and
English feelings. All these, except the streets devoted exclusively to business, are shaded
on both sides by trees, generally, if I remember rightly, by the beautiful American elm, whose
drooping boughs have all the grace of the willow without its fantastic melancholy.  What the
poorer streets of Portland may be like, I cannot say.  I saw no poor street.  But in no town
of 30,000 inhabitants did I ever see so many houses which must require an expenditure of from
six to eight hundred a year to maintain them.

The place, too, is beautifully situated.  It is on a long promontory, which takes the shape
of a peninsula, for the neck which joins it to the main-land is not above half a mile across.
But though the town thus stands out into the sea, it is not exposed and bleak.  The harbor,
again, is surrounded by land, or so guarded and locked by islands as to form a series of salt-water
lakes running round the town.  Of those islands there are, of course, three hundred and sixty-five.
Travelers who write their travels are constantly called upon to record that number, so that
it may now be considered as a superlative in local phraseology, signifying a very great many
indeed.  The town stands between two hills, the suburbs or outskirts running up on to each
of them.  The one looking out toward the sea is called Mountjoy, though the obstinate Americans
will write it Munjoy on their maps.  From thence the view out to the harbor and beyond the
harbor to the islands is, I may not say unequaled, or I shall be guilty of running into superlatives
myself, but it is in its way equal to anything I have seen.  Perhaps it is more like Cork harbor,
as seen from certain heights over Passage, than anything else I can remember; but Portland
harbor, though equally landlocked, is larger; and then from Portland harbor there is, as it
were, a river outlet running through delicious islands, most unalluring to the navigator, but
delicious to the eyes of an uncommercial traveler.  There are in all four outlets to the sea,
one of which appears to have been made expressly for the Great Eastern.  Then there is the
hill looking inward.  If it has a name, I forget it.  The view from this hill is also over
the water on each side, and, though not so extensive, is perhaps as pleasing as the other.

The ways of the people seemed to be quiet, smooth, orderly, and republican.  There is nothing
to drink in Portland, of course; for, thanks to Mr. Neal Dow, the Father Matthew of the State
of Maine, the Maine liquor law is still in force in that State.  There is nothing to drink,
I should say, in such orderly houses as that I selected.  "People do drink some in the town,
they say," said my hostess to me, "and liquor is to be got.  But I never venture to sell any.
An ill-natured person might turn on me; and where should I be then?"  I did not press her,
and she was good enough to put a bottle of porter at my right hand at dinner, for which I observed
she made no charge.  "But they advertise beer in the shop windows," I said to a man who was
driving me--"Scotch ale and bitter beer.  A man can get drunk on them."  "Waal, yes.  If he
goes to work hard, and drinks a bucketful," said the driver, "perhaps he may."  From which
and other things I gathered that the men of Maine drank pottle deep before Mr. Neal Dow brought
his exertions to a successful termination.

The Maine liquor law still stands in Maine, and is the law of the land throughout New England;
but it is not actually put in force in the other States.  By this law no man may retail wine,
spirits, or, in truth, beer, except with a special license, which is given only to those who
are presumed to sell them as medicines.  A man may have what he likes in his own cellar for
his own use--such, at least, is the actual working of the law--but may not obtain it at hotels
and public houses.  This law, like all sumptuary laws, must fail.  And it is fast failing even
in Maine.  But it did appear to me, from such information as I could collect, that the passing
of it had done much to hinder and repress a habit of hard drinking which was becoming terribly
common, not only in the towns of Maine, but among the farmers and hired laborers in the country.

But, if the men and women of Portland may not drink, they may eat; and it is a place, I should
say, in which good living on that side of the question is very rife.  It has an air of supreme
plenty, as though the agonies of an empty stomach were never known there.  The faces of the
people tell of three regular meals of meat a day, and of digestive powers in proportion.  O
happy Portlanders, if they only knew their own good fortune!  They get up early, and go to
bed early.  The women are comely and sturdy, able to take care of themselves, without any fal-lal
of chivalry, and the men are sedate, obliging, and industrious.  I saw the young girls in the
streets coming home from their tea parties at nine o'clock, many of them alone, and all with
some basket in their hands, which betokened an evening not passed absolutely in idleness. 
No fear there of unruly questions on the way, or of insolence from the ill- conducted of the
other sex.  All was, or seemed to be, orderly, sleek, and unobtrusive.  Probably, of all modes
of life that are allotted to man by his Creator, life such as this is the most happy.  One
hint, however, for improvement, I must give even to Portland: It would be well if they could
make their streets of some material harder than sand.

I must not leave the town without desiring those who may visit it to mount the observatory.
They will from thence get the best view of the harbor and of the surrounding land; and, if
they chance to do so under the reign of the present keeper of the signals, they will find a
man there able and willing to tell them everything needful about the State of Maine in general
and the harbor in particular.  He will come out in his shirt sleeves, and, like a true American,
will not at first be very smooth in his courtesy; but he will wax brighter in conversation,
and, if not stroked the wrong way, will turn out to be an uncommonly pleasant fellow.  Such
I believe to be the case with most of them.

From Portland we made our way up to the White Mountains, which lay on our route to Canada.
Now, I would ask any of my readers who are candid enough to expose their own ignorance whether
they ever heard, or at any rate whether they know anything, of the White Mountains?  As regards
myself, I confess that the name had reached my ears; that I had an indefinite idea that they
formed an intermediate stage between the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies; and that they
were inhabited either by Mormons, Indians, or simply by black bears.  That there was a district
in New England containing mountain scenery superior to much that is yearly crowded by tourists
in Europe, that this is to be reached with ease by railways and stagecoaches, and that it is
dotted with huge hotels almost as thickly as they lie in Switzerland, I had no idea.  Much
of this scenery, I say, is superior to the famed and classic lands of Europe.  I know nothing,
for instance, on the Rhine equal to the view from Mount Willard down the mountain pass called
the Notch.

Let the visitor of these regions be as late in the year as he can, taking care that he is not
so late as to find the hotels closed. October, no doubt, is the most beautiful month among
these mountains; but, according to the present arrangement of matters here, the hotels are
shut up by the end of September.  With us, August, September, and October are the holiday months;
whereas our rebel children across the Atlantic love to disport themselves in July and August.
The great beauty of the autumn, or fall, is in the brilliant hues which are then taken by the
foliage.  The autumnal tints are fine with us.  They are lovely and bright wherever foliage
and vegetation form a part of the beauty of scenery.  But in no other land do they approach
the brilliancy of the fall in America.  The bright rose color, the rich bronze which is almost
purple in its richness, and the glorious golden yellows must be seen to be understood.  By
me, at any rate, they cannot be described.  They begin to show themselves in September; and
perhaps I might name the latter half of that month as the best time for visiting the White
Mountains.

I am not going to write a guide book, feeling sure that Mr. Murray will do New England and
Canada, including Niagara, and the Hudson River, with a peep into Boston and New York, before
many more seasons have passed by.  But I cannot forbear to tell my countrymen that any enterprising
individual, with a hundred pounds to spend on his holiday--a hundred and twenty would make
him more comfortable in regard to wine, washing, and other luxuries--and an absence of two
months from his labors, may see as much and do as much here for the money as he can see or
do elsewhere.  In some respects he may do more; for he will learn more of American nature in
such a journey than he can ever learn of the nature of Frenchmen or Americans by such an excursion
among them.  Some three weeks of the time, or perhaps a day or two over, he must be at sea,
and that portion of his trip will cost him fifty pounds, presuming that he chooses to go in
the most comfortable and costly way; but his time on board ship will not be lost.  He will
learn to know much of Americans there, and will perhaps form acquaintances of which he will
not altogether lose sight for many a year.  He will land at Boston, and, staying a day or two
there, will visit Cambridge, Lowell, and Bunker Hill, and, if he be that way given, will remember
that here live, and occasionally are to be seen alive, men such as Longfellow, Emerson, Hawthorne,
and a host of others, whose names and fames have made Boston the throne of Western literature.
He will then, if he take my advice and follow my track, go by Portland up into the White Mountains.
At Gorham, a station on the Grand Trunk Line, he will find a hotel as good as any of its kind,
and from thence he will take a light wagon, so called in these countries.  And here let me
presume that the traveler is not alone: he has his wife or friend, or perhaps a pair of sisters,
and in his wagon he will go up through primeval forests to the Glen House. When there, he will
ascend Mount Washington on a pony.  That is de rigueur, and I do not therefore dare to recommend
him to omit the ascent.  I did not gain much myself by my labor.  He will not stay at the Glen
House, but will go on to--Jackson's I think they call the next hotel, at which he will sleep.
From thence he will take his wagon on through the Notch to the Crawford house, sleeping there
again; and when here, let him, of all things, remember to go up Mount Willard.  It is but a
walk of two hours up and down, if so much.  When reaching the top, he will be startled to find
that he looks down into the ravine without an inch of foreground.  He will come out suddenly
on a ledge of rock, from whence, as it seems, he might leap down at once into the valley below.
Then, going on from the Crawford House, he will be driven through the woods of Cherry Mount,
passing, I fear without toll of custom, the house of my excellent friend Mr. Plaistead, who
keeps a hotel at Jefferson. "Sir," said Mr. Plaistead, "I have everything here that a man ought
to want: air, sir, that aint to be got better nowhere; trout, chickens, beef, mutton, milk--and
all for a dollar a day!  A-top of that hill, sir, there's a view that aint to be beaten this
side of the Atlantic, or I believe the other.  And an echo, sir!--we've an echo that comes
back to us six times, sir; floating on the light wind, and wafted about from rock to rock,
till you would think the angels were talking to you.  If I could raise that echo, sir, every
day at command, I'd give a thousand dollars for it.  It would be worth all the money to a house
like this."  And he waved his hand about from hill to hill, pointing out in graceful curves
the lines which the sounds would take.  Had destiny not called on Mr. Plaistead to keep an
American hotel, he might have been a poet.

My traveler, however, unless time were plenty with him, would pass Mr. Plaistead, merely lighting
a friendly cigar, or perhaps breaking the Maine liquor law if the weather be warm, and would
return to Gorham on the railway.  All this mountain district is in New Hampshire; and, presuming
him to be capable of going about the world with his mouth, ears, and eyes open, he would learn
much of the way in which men are settling themselves in this still sparsely-populated country.
Here young farmers go into the woods as they are doing far down West in the Territories, and
buying some hundred acres at perhaps six shillings an acre, fell and burn the trees, and build
their huts, and take the first steps, as far as man's work is concerned, toward accomplishing
the will of the Creator in those regions.  For such pioneers of civilization there is still
ample room even in the long-settled States of New Hampshire and Vermont.

But to return to my traveler, whom, having brought so far, I must send on.  Let him go on from
Gorham to Quebec and the heights of Abraham, stopping at Sherbrooke that he might visit from
thence the Lake of Memphra Magog.  As to the manner of traveling over this ground I shall say
a little in the next chapter, when I come to the progress of myself and my wife.  From Quebec
he will go up the St. Lawrence to Montreal.  He will visit Ottawa, the new capital, and Toronto.
He will cross the lake to Niagara, resting probably at the Clifton House on the Canada side.
He will then pass on to Albany, taking the Trenton Falls on his way.  From Albany he will go
down the Hudson to West Point.  He cannot stop at the Catskill Mountains, for the hotel will
be closed.  And then he will take the river boat, and in a few hours will find himself at New
York.  If he desires to go into American city society, he will find New York agreeable; but
in that case he must exceed his two months.  If he do not so desire, a short sojourn at New
York will show him all that there is to be seen and all that there is not to be seen in that
great city.  That the Cunard line of steamers will bring him safely back to Liverpool in about
eleven days, I need not tell to any Englishman, or, as I believe, to any American.  So much,
in the spirit of a guide, I vouchsafe to all who are willing to take my counsel--thereby anticipating
Murray, and leaving these few pages as a legacy to him or to his collaborateurs.

I cannot say that I like the hotels in those parts, or, indeed, the mode of life at American
hotels in general.  In order that I may not unjustly defame them, I will commence these observations
by declaring that they are cheap to those who choose to practice the economy which they encourage,
that the viands are profuse in quantity and wholesome in quality, that the attendance is quick
and unsparing, and that travelers are never annoyed by that grasping, greedy hunger and thirst
after francs and shillings which disgrace, in Europe, many English and many continental inns.
All this is, as must be admitted, great praise; and yet I do not like the American hotels.

One is in a free country, and has come from a country in which one has been brought up to hug
one's chains--so at least the English traveler is constantly assured--and yet in an American
inn one can never do as one likes.  A terrific gong sounds early in the morning, breaking one's
sweet slumbers; and then a second gong, sounding some thirty minutes later, makes you understand
that you must proceed to breakfast whether you be dressed or no.  You certainly can go on with
your toilet, and obtain your meal after half an hour's delay.  Nobody actually scolds you for
so doing, but the breakfast is, as they say in this country, "through."  You sit down alone,
and the attendant stands immediately over you. Probably there are two so standing.  They fill
your cup the instant it is empty.  They tender you fresh food before that which has disappeared
from your plate has been swallowed.  They begrudge you no amount that you can eat or drink;
but they begrudge you a single moment that you sit there neither eating nor drinking.  This
is your fate if you're too late; and therefore, as a rule, you are not late.  In that case,
you form one of a long row of eaters who proceed through their work with a solid energy that
is past all praise.  It is wrong to say that Americans will not talk at their meals.  I never
met but few who would not talk to me, at any rate till I got to the far West; but I have rarely
found that they would address me first.  Then the dinner comes early--at least it always does
so in New England--and the ceremony is much of the same kind. You came there to eat, and the
food is pressed upon you ad nauseam. But, as far as one can see, there is no drinking.  In
these days, I am quite aware that drinking has become improper, even in England. We are apt,
at home, to speak of wine as a thing tabooed, wondering how our fathers lived and swilled.
I believe that, as a fact, we drink as much as they did; but, nevertheless, that is our theory.
I confess, however, that I like wine.  It is very wicked, but it seems to me that my dinner
goes down better with a glass of sherry than without it.  As a rule, I always did get it at
hotels in America.  But I had no comfort with it.  Sherry they do not understand at all.  Of
course I am only speaking of hotels.  Their claret they get exclusively from Mr. Gladstone,
and, looking at the quality, have a right to quarrel even with Mr. Gladstone's price. But it
is not the quality of the wine that I hereby intend to subject to ignominy so much as the want
of any opportunity for drinking it.  After dinner, if all that I hear be true, the gentlemen
occasionally drop into the hotel bar and "liquor up."  Or rather this is not done specially
after dinner, but, without prejudice to the hour, at any time that may be found desirable.
I also have "liquored up," but I cannot say that I enjoy the process. I do not intend hereby
to accuse Americans of drinking much; but I maintain that what they do drink, they drink in
the most uncomfortable manner that the imagination can devise.

The greatest luxury at an English inn is one's tea, one's fire, and one's book.  Such an arrangement
is not practicable at an American hotel.  Tea, like breakfast, is a great meal, at which meat
should be eaten, generally with the addition of much jelly, jam, and sweet preserve; but no
person delays over his teacup.  I love to have my teacup emptied and filled with gradual pauses,
so that time for oblivion may accrue, and no exact record be taken.  No such meal is known
at American hotels.  It is possible to hire a separate room, and have one's meals served in
it; but in doing so a man runs counter to all the institutions of the country, and a woman
does so equally.  A stranger does not wish to be viewed askance by all around him; and the
rule which holds that men at Rome should do as Romans do, if true anywhere, is true in America.
Therefore I say that in an American inn one can never do as one pleases.

In what I have here said I do not intend to speak of hotels in the largest cities, such as
Boston or New York.  At them meals are served in the public room separately, and pretty nearly
at any or at all hours of the day; but at them also the attendant stands over the unfortunate
eater and drives him.  The guest feels that he is controlled by laws adapted to the usages
of the Medes and Persians. He is not the master on the occasion, but the slave--a slave well
treated, and fattened up to the full endurance of humanity, but yet a slave.

From Gorham we went on to Island Pond, a station on the same Canada Trunk Railway, on a Saturday
evening, and were forced by the circumstances of the line to pass a melancholy Sunday at the
place. The cars do not run on Sundays, and run but once a day on other days over the whole
line, so that, in fact, the impediment to traveling spreads over two days.  Island Pond is
a lake with an island in it; and the place which has taken the name is a small village, about
ten years old, standing in the midst of uncut forests, and has been created by the railway.
In ten years more there will no doubt be a spreading town at Island Pond; the forests will
recede; and men, rushing out from the crowded cities, will find here food, and space, and wealth.
For myself, I never remain long in such a spot without feeling thankful that it has not been
my mission to be a pioneer of civilization.

The farther that I got away from Boston the less strong did I find the feeling of anger against
England.  There, as I have said before, there was a bitter animosity against the mother country
in that she had shown no open sympathy with the North.  In Maine and New Hampshire I did not
find this to be the case to any violent degree.  Men spoke of the war as openly as they did
at Boston, and, in speaking to me, generally connected England with the subject. But they did
so simply to ask questions as to England's policy. What will she do for cotton when her operatives
are really pressed? Will she break the blockade?  Will she insist on a right to trade with
Charleston and new Orleans?  I always answered that she would insist on no such right, if that
right were denied to others and the denial enforced.  England, I took upon myself to say, would
not break a veritable blockade, let her be driven to what shifts she might in providing for
her operatives.  "Ah! that's what we fear," a very stanch patriot said to me, if words may
be taken as a proof of stauchness.  "If England allies herself with the Southerners, all our
trouble is for nothing."  It was impossible not to feel that all that was said was complimentary
to England.  It is her sympathy that the Northern men desire, to her co-operation that they
would willingly trust, on her honesty that they would choose to depend.  It is the same feeling
whether it shows itself in anger or in curiosity.  An American, whether he be embarked in politics,
in literature, or in commerce, desires English admiration, English appreciation of his energy,
and English encouragement.  The anger of Boston is but a sign of its affectionate friendliness.
What feeling is so hot as that of a friend when his dearest friend refuses to share his quarrel
or to sympathize in his wrongs!  To my thinking, the men of Boston are wrong and unreasonable
in their anger; but were I a man of Boston, I should be as wrong and as unreasonable as any
of them.  All that, however, will come right. I will not believe it possible that there should
in very truth be a quarrel between England and the Northern States.

In the guidance of those who are not quite au fait at the details of American government, I
will here in a few words describe the outlines of State government as it is arranged in New
Hampshire. The States, in this respect, are not all alike, the modes of election of their officers,
and periods of service, being different.  Even the franchise is different in different States.
Universal suffrage is not the rule throughout the United States, though it is, I believe, very
generally thought in England that such is the fact.  I need hardly say that the laws in the
different States may be as various as the different legislatures may choose to make them.

In New Hampshire universal suffrage does prevail, which means that any man may vote who lives
in the State, supports himself, and assists to support the poor by means of poor rates.  A
governor of the State is elected for one year only; but it is customary, or at any rate not
uncustomary, to re-elect him for a second year.  His salary is a thousand dollars a year, or
two hundred pounds.  It must be presumed, therefore, that glory, and not money, is his object.
To him is appended a Council, by whose opinions he must in a great degree be guided.  His functions
are to the State what those of the President are to the country; and, for the short period
of his reign, he is as it were a Prime Minister of the State, with certain very limited regal
attributes.  He, however, by no means enjoys the regal attribute of doing no wrong.  In every
State there is an Assembly, consisting of two houses of elected representatives--the Senate,
or upper house, and the House of Representatives so called.  In New Hampshire, this Assembly
or Parliament is styled The General Court of New Hampshire.  It sits annually, whereas the
legislature in many States sits only every other year.  Both houses are re-elected every year.
This Assembly passes laws with all the power vested in our Parliament, but such laws apply
of course only to the State in question.  The Governor of the State has a veto on all bills
passed by the two houses. But, after receipt of his veto, any bill so stopped by the Governor
can be passed by a majority of two-thirds in each house.  The General Court usually sits for
about ten weeks.  There are in the State eight judges--three supreme, who sit at Concord, the
capital, as a court of appeal both in civil and criminal matters, and then five lesser judges,
who go circuit through the State.  The salaries of these lesser judges do not exceed from 250
pounds to 300 pounds a year; but they are, I believe, allowed to practice as lawyers in any
counties except those in which they sit as judges--being guided, in this respect, by the same
law as that which regulates the work of assistant barristers in Ireland.  The assistant barristers
in Ireland are attached to the counties as judges at Quarter Sessions, but they practice, or
may practice, as advocates in all counties except that to which they are so attached.  The
judges in New Hampshire are appointed by the Governor, with the assistance of his Council.
No judge in New Hampshire can hold his seat after he has reached seventy years of age.

So much at the present moment with reference to the government of New Hampshire.

CHAPTER IV.

LOWER CANADA.

The Grand Trunk Railway runs directly from Portland to Montreal, which latter town is, in fact,
the capital of Canada, though it never has been so exclusively, and, as it seems, never is
to be so as regards authority, government, and official name.  In such matters, authority and
government often say one thing while commerce says another; but commerce always has the best
of it and wins the game, whatever government may decree.  Albany, in this way, is the capital
of the State of New York, as authorized by the State government; but New York has made herself
the capital of America, and will remain so.  So also Montreal has made herself the capital
of Canada.  The Grand Trunk Railway runs from Portland to Montreal; but there is a branch from
Richmond, a township within the limits of Canada, to Quebec; so that travelers to Quebec, as
we were, are not obliged to reach that place via Montreal.

Quebec is the present seat of Canadian government, its turn for that honor having come round
some two years ago; but it is about to be deserted in favor of Ottawa, a town which is, in
fact, still to be built on the river of that name.  The public edifices are, however, in a
state of forwardness; and if all goes well, the Governor, the two Councils, and the House of
Representatives will be there before two years are over, whether there be any town to receive
them or no.  Who can think of Ottawa without bidding his brothers to row, and reminding them
that the stream runs fast, that the rapids are near and the daylight past?  I asked, as a matter
of course, whether Quebec was much disgusted at the proposed change, and I was told that the
feeling was not now very strong.  Had it been determined to make Montreal the permanent seat
of government, Quebec and Toronto would both have been up in arms.

I must confess that, in going from the States into Canada, an Englishman is struck by the feeling
that he is going from a richer country into one that is poorer, and from a greater country
into one that is less.  An Englishman going from a foreign land into a land which is in one
sense his own, of course finds much in the change to gratify him.  He is able to speak as the
master, instead of speaking as the visitor.  His tongue becomes more free, and he is able to
fall back to his national habits and national expressions.  He no longer feels that he is admitted
on sufferance, or that he must be careful to respect laws which he does not quite understand.
This feeling was naturally strong in an Englishman in passing from the States into Canada at
the time of my visit. English policy, at that moment, was violently abused by Americans, and
was upheld as violently in Canada.  But nevertheless, with all this, I could not enter Canada
without seeing, and hearing, and feeling that there was less of enterprise around me there
than in the States, less of general movement, and less of commercial success.  To say why this
is so would require a long and very difficult discussion, and one which I am not prepared to
hold.  It may be that a dependent country, let the feeling of dependence be ever so much modified
by powers of self-governance, cannot hold its own against countries which are in all respects
their own masters. Few, I believe, would now maintain that the Northern States of America would
have risen in commerce as they have risen, had they still remained attached to England as colonies.
If this be so, that privilege of self-rule which they have acquired has been the cause of their
success.  It does not follow as a consequence that the Canadas, fighting their battle alone
in the world, could do as the States have done.  Climate, or size, or geographical position
might stand in their way.  But I fear that it does follow, if not as a logical conclusion,
at least as a natural result, that they never will do so well unless some day they shall so
fight their battle.  It may be argued that Canada has in fact the power of self-governance;
that she rules herself and makes her own laws as England does; that the Sovereign of England
has but a veto on those laws, and stands in regard to Canada exactly as she does in regard
to England.  This is so, I believe, by the letter of the Constitution, but is not so in reality,
and cannot in truth be so in any colony even of Great Britain.  In England the political power
of the Crown is nothing.  The Crown has no such power, and now-a-days makes no attempt at having
any.  But the political power of the Crown as it is felt in Canada is everything.  The Crown
has no such power in England, because it must change its ministers whenever called upon to
do so by the House of Commons.  But the Colonial Minister in Downing Street is the Crown's
Prime Minister as regards the colonies, and he is changed not as any colonial House of Assembly
may wish, but in accordance with the will of the British Commons.  Both the houses in Canada--that,
namely, of the Representatives, or Lower Houses and of the Legislative Council, or Upper House--are
now elective, and are filled without direct influence from the Crown.  The power of self-government
is as thoroughly developed as perhaps may be possible in a colony.  But, after all, it is a
dependent form of government, and as such may perhaps not conduce to so thorough a development
of the resources of the country as might be achieve under a ruling power of its own, to which
the welfare of Canada itself would be the chief if not the only object.

I beg that it may not be considered from this that I would propose to Canada to set up for
itself at once and declare itself independent.  In the first place I do not wish to throw over
Canada; and in the next place I do not wish to throw over England. If such a separation shall
ever take place, I trust that it may be caused, not by Canadian violence, but by British generosity.
Such a separation, however, never can be good till Canada herself shall wish it.  That she
does not wish it yet, is certain.  If Canada ever should wish it, and should ever press for
the accomplishment of such a wish, she must do so in connection with Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.
If at any future time there be formed such a separate political power, it must include the
whole of British North America.

In the mean time, I return to my assertion, that in entering Canada from the States one clearly
comes from a richer to a poorer country.  When I have said so, I have heard no Canadian absolutely
deny it; though in refraining from denying it, they have usually expressed a general conviction,
that in settling himself for life it is better for a man to set up his staff in Canada than
in the States.  "I do not know that we are richer," a Canadian says, "but on the whole we are
doing better and are happier."  Now, I regard the golden rules against the love of gold, the
"aurum irrepertum et sic melius situm," and the rest of it, as very excellent when applied
to individuals.  Such teaching has not much effect, perhaps, in inducing men to abstain from
wealth; but such effect as it may have will be good.  Men and women do, I suppose, learn to
be happier when they learn to disregard riches.  But such a doctrine is absolutely false as
regards a nation.  National wealth produces education and progress, and through them produces
plenty of food, good morals, and all else that is good.  It produces luxury also, and certain
evils attendant on luxury.  But I think it may be clearly shown, and that it is universally
acknowledged, that national wealth produces individual well-being.  If this be so, the argument
of my friend the Canadian is naught.

To the feeling of a refined gentleman, or of a lady whose eye loves to rest always on the beautiful,
an agricultural population that touches its hat, eats plain victuals, and goes to church, is
more picturesque and delightful than the thronged crowd of a great city, by which a lady and
gentleman is hustled without remorse, which never touches its hat, and perhaps also never goes
to church.  And as we are always tempted to approve of that which we like, and to think that
that which is good to us is good altogether, we--the refined gentlemen and ladies of England
I mean--are very apt to prefer the hat touchers to those who are not hat touchers.  In doing
so we intend, and wish, and strive to be philanthropical.  We argue to ourselves that the dear
excellent lower classes receive an immense amount of consoling happiness from that ceremony
of hat touching, and quite pity those who, unfortunately for themselves, know nothing about
it.  I would ask any such lady or gentleman whether he or she does not feel a certain amount
of commiseration for the rudeness of the town-bred artisan who walks about with his hands in
his pockets as though he recognized a superior in no one?

But that which is good and pleasant to us is often not good and pleasant altogether.  Every
man's chief object is himself; and the philanthropist should endeavor to regard this question,
not from his own point of view, but from that which would be taken by the individuals for whose
happiness he is anxious.  The honest, happy rustic makes a very pretty picture; and I hope
that honest rustics are happy.  But the man who earns two shillings a day in the country would
always prefer to earn five in the town.  The man who finds himself bound to touch his hat to
the squire would be glad to dispense with that ceremony, if circumstances would permit.  A
crowd of greasy-coated town artisans, with grimy hands and pale faces, is not in itself delectable;
but each of that crowd has probably more of the goods of life than any rural laborer.  He thinks
more, reads more, feels more, sees more, hears more, learns more, and lives more.  It is through
great cities that the civilization of the world has progressed, and the charms of life been
advanced.  Man in his rudest state begins in the country, and in his most finished state may
retire there.  But the battle of the world has to be fought in the cities; and the country
that shows the greatest city population is ever the one that is going most ahead in the world's
history.

If this be so, I say that the argument of my Canadian friend was naught.  It may be that he
does not desire crowded cities, with dirty, independent artisans; that to view small farmers,
living sparingly, but with content, on the sweat of their brows, are surer signs of a country's
prosperity than hives of men and smoking chimneys.  He has probably all the upper classes of
England with him in so thinking, and as far as I know the upper classes of all Europe.  But
the crowds themselves, the thick masses of which are composed those populations which we count
by millions, are against him.  Up in those regions which are watered by the great lakes-- Lake
Michigan, Lake Huron, Lake Erie, Lake Ontario--and by the St. Lawrence, the country is divided
between Canada and the States. The cities in Canada were settled long before those in the States.
Quebec and Montreal were important cities before any of the towns belonging to the States had
been founded.  But taking the population of three of each, including the three largest Canadian
towns, we find they are as follows: In Canada, Quebec has 60,000; Montreal, 85,000; Toronto,
55,000.  In the States, Chicago has 120,000; Detroit, 70,000; and Buffalo, 80,000.  If the
population had been equal, it would have shown a great superiority in the progress of those
belonging to the States, because the towns of Canada had so great a start.  But the numbers
are by no means equal, showing instead a vast preponderance in favor of the States. There can
be no stronger proof that the States are advancing faster than Canada, and in fact doing better
than Canada.

Quebec is a very picturesque town; from its natural advantages almost as much so as any town
I know.  Edinburgh, perhaps, and Innspruck may beat it.  But Quebec has very little to recommend
it beyond the beauty of its situation.  Its public buildings and works of art do not deserve
a long narrative.  It stands at the confluence of the St. Lawrence and St. Charles Rivers;
the best part of the town is built high upon the rock--the rock which forms the celebrated
plains of Abram; and the view from thence down to the mountains which shut in the St. Lawrence
is magnificent.  The best point of view is, I think, from the esplanade, which is distant some
five minutes' walk from the hotels.  When that has been seen by the light of the setting sun,
and seen again, if possible, by moonlight, the most considerable lion of Quebec may be regarded
as "done," and may be ticked off from the list.

The most considerable lion, according to my taste.  Lions which roar merely by the force of
association of ideas are not to me very valuable beasts.  To many the rock over which Wolfe
climbed to the plains of Abram, and on the summit of which he fell in the hour of victory,
gives to Quebec its chiefest charm.  But I confess to being somewhat dull in such matters.
I can count up Wolfe, and realize his glory, and put my hand as it were upon his monument,
in my own room at home as well as I can at Quebec.  I do not say this boastingly or with pride,
but truly acknowledging a deficiency.  I have never cared to sit in chairs in which old kings
have sat, or to have their crowns upon my head.

Nevertheless, and as a matter of course, I went to see the rock, and can only say, as so many
have said before me, that it is very steep.  It is not a rock which I think it would be difficult
for any ordinarily active man to climb, providing, of course, that he was used to such work.
But Wolfe took regiments of men up there at night, and that in face of enemies who held the
summits.  One grieves that he should have fallen there and have never tasted the sweet cup
of his own fame.  For fame is sweet, and the praise of ones's brother men the sweetest draught
which a man can drain.  But now, and for coming ages, Wolfe's name stands higher than it probably
would have done had he lived to enjoy his reward.

But there is another very worthy lion near Quebec--the Falls, namely, of Montmorency.  They
are eight miles from the town, and the road lies through the suburb of St. Roch, and the long,
straggling French village of Beauport.  These are in themselves very interesting, as showing
the quiet, orderly, unimpulsive manner in which the French Canadians live.  Such is their character,
although there have been such men as Papineau, and although there have been times in which
English rule has been unpopular with the French settlers.  As far as I could learn there is
no such feeling now.  These people are quiet, contented; and, as regards a sufficiency of the
simple staples of living, sufficiently well to do.  They are thrifty, but they do not thrive.
They do not advance, and push ahead, and become a bigger people from year to year, as settlers
in a new country should do.  They do not even hold their own in comparison with those around
them.  But has not this always been the case with colonists out of France; and has it not always
been the case with Roman Catholics when they have been forced to measure themselves against
Protestants?  As to the ultimate fate in the world of this people, one can hardly form a speculation.
There are, as nearly as I could learn, about 800,000 of them in Lower Canada; but it seems
that the wealth and commercial enterprise of the country is passing out of their hands. Montreal,
and even Quebec, are, I think, becoming less and less French every day; but in the villages
and on the small farms the French still remain, keeping up their language, their habits, and
their religion.  In the cities they are becoming hewers of wood and drawers of water.  I am
inclined to think that the same will ultimately be their fate in the country.  Surely one may
declare as a fact that a Roman Catholic population can never hold its ground against one that
is Protestant.  I do not speak of numbers; for the Roman Catholics will increase and multiply,
and stick by their religion, although their religion entails poverty and dependence, as they
have done and still do in Ireland.  But in progress and wealth the Romanists have always gone
to the wall when the two have been made to compete together.  And yet I love their religion.
There is something beautiful, and almost divine, in the faith and obedience of a true son of
the Holy Mother.  I sometimes fancy that I would fain be a Roman Catholic--if I could; as also
I would often wish to be still a child--if that were possible.

All this is on the way to the Falls of Montmorency.  These falls are placed exactly at the
mouth of the little river of the same name, so that it may be said absolutely to fall into
the St. Lawrence.  The people of the country, however, declare that the river into which the
waters of the Montmorency fall is not the St. Lawrence, but the Charles.  Without a map I do
not know that I can explain this.  The River Charles appears to, and in fact does, run into
the St. Lawrence just below Quebec.  But the waters do not mix.  The thicker, browner stream
of the lesser river still keeps the northeastern bank till it comes to the Island of Orleans,
which lies in the river five or six miles below Quebec.  Here or hereabouts are the Falls of
the Montmorency, and then the great river is divided for twenty-five miles by the Isle of Orleans.
It is said that the waters of the Charles and the St. Lawrence do not mix till they meet each
other at the foot of this island.

I do not know that I am particularly happy at describing a waterfall, and what little capacity
I may have in this way I would wish to keep for Niagara.  One thing I can say very positively
about Montmorency, and one piece of advice I can give to those who visit the falls.  The place
from which to see them is not the horrible little wooden temple which has been built immediately
over them on that side which lies nearest to Quebec.  The stranger is put down at a gate through
which a path leads to this temple, and at which a woman demands from him twenty-five cents
for the privilege of entrance.  Let him by all means pay the twenty-five cents.  Why should
he attempt to see the falls for nothing, seeing that this woman has a vested interest in the
showing of them?  I declare that if I thought that I should hinder this woman from her perquisites
by what I write, I would leave it unwritten, and let my readers pursue their course to the
temple--to their manifest injury.  But they will pay the twenty-five cents.  Then let them
cross over the bridge, eschewing the temple, and wander round on the open field till they get
the view of the falls, and the view of Quebec also, from the other side.  It is worth the twenty-five
cents and the hire of the carriage also.  Immediately over the falls there was a suspension
bridge, of which the supporting, or rather non-supporting, pillars are still to be seen.  But
the bridge fell down, one day, into the river; and--alas! alas!--with the bridge fell down
an old woman, and a boy, and a cart--a cart and horse--and all found a watery grave together
in the spray.  No attempt has been made since that to renew the suspension bridge; but the
present wooden bridge has been built higher up in lieu of it.

Strangers naturally visit Quebec in summer or autumn, seeing that a Canada winter is a season
with which a man cannot trifle; but I imagine that the mid-winter is the best time for seeing
the Falls of Montmorency.  The water in its fall is dashed into spray, and that spray becomes
frozen, till a cone of ice is formed immediately under the cataract, which gradually rises
till the temporary glacier reaches nearly half way to the level of the higher river. Up this
men climb--and ladies also, I am told--and then descend, with pleasant rapidity, on sledges
of wood, sometimes not without an innocent tumble in the descent.  As we were at Quebec in
September, we did not experience the delights of this pastime.

As I was too early for the ice cone under the Montmorency Falls, so also was I too late to
visit the Saguenay River, which runs into the St. Lawrence some hundred miles below Quebec.
I presume that the scenery of the Saguenay is the finest in Canada.  During the summer steamers
run down the St. Lawrence and up the Saguenay, but I was too late for them.  An offer was made
to us through the kindness of Sir Edmund Head, who was then the Governor-General, of the use
of a steam-tug belonging to a gentleman who carries on a large commercial enterprise at Chicoutimi,
far up the Saguenay; but an acceptance of this offer would have entailed some delay at Quebec,
and, as we were anxious to get into the Northwestern States before the winter commenced, we
were obliged with great regret to decline the journey.

I feel bound to say that a stranger, regarding Quebec merely as a town, finds very much of
which he cannot but complain.  The footpaths through the streets are almost entirely of wood,
as indeed seems to be general throughout Canada.  Wood is, of course, the cheapest material;
and, though it may not be altogether good for such a purpose, it would not create animadversion
if it were kept in tolerable order.  But in Quebec the paths are intolerably bad.  They are
full of holes.  The boards are rotten, and worn in some places to dirt.  The nails have gone,
and the broken planks go up and down under the feet, and in the dark they are absolutely dangerous.
But if the paths are bad, the road-ways are worse.  The street through the lower town along
the quays is, I think, the most disgraceful thoroughfare I ever saw in any town.  I believe
the whole of it, or at any rate a great portion, has been paved with wood; but the boards have
been worked into mud, and the ground under the boards has been worked into holes, till the
street is more like the bottom of a filthy ditch than a road-way through one of the most thickly
populated parts of a city.  Had Quebec in Wolfe's time been as it is now, Wolfe would have
stuck in the mud between the river and the rock before he reached the point which he desired
to climb.  In the upper town the roads are not as bad as they are below, but still they are
very bad.  I was told that this arose from disputes among the municipal corporations.  Everything
in Canada relating to roads, and a very great deal affecting the internal government of the
people, is done by these municipalities. It is made a subject of great boast in Canada that
the communal authorities do carry on so large a part of the public business, and that they
do it generally so well and at so cheap a rate.  I have nothing to say against this, and, as
a whole, believe that the boast is true.  I must protest, however, that the streets of the
greater cities--for Montreal is nearly as bad as Quebec--prove the rule by a very sad exception.
The municipalities of which I speak extend, I believe, to all Canada--the two provinces being
divided into counties, and the counties subdivided into townships, to which, as a matter of
course, the municipalities are attached.

From Quebec to Montreal there are two modes of travel.  There are the steamers up the St. Lawrence,
which, as all the world know, is, or at any rate hitherto has been, the high-road of the Canadas;
and there is the Grand Trunk Railway.  Passengers choosing the latter go toward Portland as
far as Richmond, and there join the main line of the road, passing from Richmond on to Montreal.
We learned while at Quebec that it behooved us not to leave the colony till we had seen the
lake and mountains of Memphremagog; and, as we were clearly neglecting our duty with regard
to the Saguenay, we felt bound to make such amends as lay in our power by deviating from our
way to the lake above named.  In order to do this we were obliged to choose the railway, and
to go back beyond Richmond to the station at Sherbrooke.  Sherbrooke is a large village on
the confines of Canada, and, as it is on the railway, will no doubt become a large town.  It
is very prettily situated on the meeting of two rivers; it has three or four churches, and
intends to thrive.  It possesses two newspapers, of the prosperity of which I should be inclined
to feel less assured.  The annual subscription to such a newspaper, published twice a week,
is ten shillings.  A sale of a thousand copies is not considered bad.  Such a sale would produce
500 pounds a year; and this would, if entirely devoted to that purpose, give a moderate income
to a gentleman qualified to conduct a newspaper.  But the paper and printing must cost something,
and the capital invested should receive its proper remuneration.  And then--such at least is
the general idea--the getting together of news and the framing of intelligence is a costly
operation.  I can only hope that all this is paid for by the advertisements, for I must trust
that the editors do not receive less than the moderate sum above named.  At Sherbrooke we are
still in Lower Canada.  Indeed, as regards distance, we are when there nearly as far removed
from Upper Canada as at Quebec.  But the race of people here is very different.  The French
population had made their way down into these townships before the English and American war
broke out, but had not done so in great numbers.  The country was then very unapproachable,
being far to the south of the St. Lawrence, and far also from-any great line of internal communication
toward the Atlantic.  But, nevertheless, many settlers made their way in here from the States--men
who preferred to live under British rule, and perhaps doubted the stability of the new order
of things.  They or their children have remained here since; and, as the whole country has
been opened up by the railway, many others have flocked in.  Thus a better class of people
than the French hold possession of the larger farms, and are on the whole doing well.  I am
told that many Americans are now coming here, driven over the borders from Maine, New Hampshire,
and Vermont by fears of the war and the weight of taxation.  I do not think that fears of war
or the paying of taxes drive many individuals away from home.  Men who would be so influenced
have not the amount of foresight which would induce them to avoid such evils; or, at any rate,
such fears would act slowly.  Laborers, however, will go where work is certain, where work
is well paid, and where the wages to be earned will give plenty in return.  It may be that
work will become scarce in the States, as it has done with those poor jewelers at Attleborough
of whom we spoke, and that food will become dear.  If this be so, laborers from the States
will no doubt find their way into Canada.

From Sherbrooke we went with the mails on a pair-horse wagon to Magog.  Cross-country mails
are not interesting to the generality of readers, but I have a professional liking for them
myself.  I have spent the best part of my life in looking after, and I hope in improving, such
mails; and I always endeavor to do a stroke of work when I come across them.  I learned on
this occasion that the conveyance of mails with a pair of horses, in Canada, costs little more
than half what is paid for the same work in England with one horse, and something less than
what is paid in Ireland, also for one horse.  But in Canada the average pace is only five miles
an hour.  In Ireland it is seven, and the time is accurately kept, which does not seem to be
the case in Canada.  In England the pace is eight miles an hour.  In Canada and in Ireland
these conveyances carry passengers; but in England they are prohibited from doing so. In Canada
the vehicles are much better got up than they are in England, and the horses too look better.
Taking Ireland as a whole, they are more respectable in appearance there than in England. 
From all which it appears that pace is the article that costs the highest price, and that appearance
does not go for much in the bill.  In Canada the roads are very bad in comparison with the
English or Irish roads; but, to make up for this, the price of forage is very low.

I have said that the cross-mail conveyances in Canada did not seem to be very closely bound
as to time; but they are regulated by clock-work in comparison with some of them in the United
States. "Are you going this morning?" I said to a mail-driver in Vermont. "I thought you always
started in the evening."  "Wa'll, I guess I do; but it rained some last night, so I jist stayed
at home."  I do not know that I ever felt more shocked in my life, and I could hardly keep
my tongue off the man.  The mails, however, would have paid no respect to me in Vermont, and
I was obliged to walk away crest-fallen.

We went with the mails from Sherbrooke to a village called Magog, at the outlet of the lake,
and from thence by a steamer up the lake, to a solitary hotel called the Mountain House, which
is built at the foot of the mountain, on the shore, and which is surrounded on every side by
thick forest.  There is no road within two miles of the house.  The lake therefore is the only
highway, and that is frozen up for four months in the year.  When frozen, however, it is still
a road, for it is passable for sledges.  I have seldom been in a house that seemed so remote
from the world, and so little within reach of doctors, parsons, or butchers.  Bakers in this
country are not required, as all persons make their own bread.  But in spite of its position
the hotel is well kept, and on the whole we were more comfortable there than at any other inn
in Lower Canada.  The Mountain house is but five miles from the borders of Vermont, in which
State the head of the lake lies.  The steamer which brought us runs on to Newport, or rather
from Newport to Magog and back again.  And Newport is in Vermont.

The one thing to be done at the Mountain House is the ascent of the mountain called the Owl's
head.  The world there offers nothing else of active enterprise to the traveler, unless fishing
be considered an active enterprise.  I am not capable of fishing, therefore we resolved on
going up the Owl's Head.  To dine in the middle of the day is absolutely imperative at these
hotels, and thus we were driven to select either the morning or the afternoon. Evening lights
we declared were the best for all views, and therefore we decided on the afternoon.  It is
but two miles; but then, as we were told more than once by those who had spoken to us on the
subject, those two miles are not like other miles.  "I doubt if the lady can do it," one man
said to me.  I asked if ladies did not sometimes go up.  "Yes; young women do, at times," he
said. After that my wife resolved that she would see the top of the Owl's Head, or die in the
attempt, and so we started.  They never think of sending a guide with one in these places,
whereas in Europe a traveler is not allowed to go a step without one.  When I asked for one
to show us the way up Mount Washington, I was told that there were no idle boys about that
place.  The path was indicated to us, and off we started with high hopes.

I have been up many mountains, and have climbed some that were perhaps somewhat dangerous in
their ascent.  In climbing the Owl's Head there is no danger.  One is closed in by thick trees
the whole way.  But I doubt if I ever went up a steeper ascent.  It was very hard work, but
we were not beaten.  We reached the top, and there sitting down, thoroughly enjoyed our victory.
It was then half- past five o'clock, and the sun was not yet absolutely sinking.  It did not
seem to give us any warning that we should especially require its aid, and, as the prospect
below us was very lovely, we remained there for a quarter of an hour.  The ascent of the Owl's
Head is certainly a thing to do, and I still think, in spite of our following misfortune, that
it is a thing to do late in the afternoon.  The view down upon the lakes and the forests around,
and on the wooded hills below, is wonderfully lovely.  I never was on a mountain which gave
me a more perfect command of all the country round.  But as we arose to descend we saw a little
cloud coming toward us from over Newport.

The little cloud came on with speed, and we had hardly freed ourselves from the rocks of the
summit before we were surrounded by rain.  As the rain became thicker, we were surrounded by
darkness also, or, if not by darkness, by so dim a light that it became a task to find our
path.  I still thought that the daylight had not gone, and that as we descended, and so escaped
from the cloud, we should find light enough to guide us.  But it was not so.  The rain soon
became a matter of indifference, and so also did the mud and briers beneath our feet.  Even
the steepness of the way was almost forgotten as we endeavored to thread our path through the
forest before it should become impossible to discern the track.  A dog had followed us up,
and though the beast would not stay with us so as to be our guide, he returned ever and anon,
and made us aware of his presence by dashing by us.  I may confess now that I became much frightened.
We were wet through, and a night out in the forest would have been unpleasant to us.  At last
I did utterly lose the track, it had become quite dark, so dark that we could hardly see each
other.  We had succeeded in getting down the steepest and worst part of the mountain, but we
were still among dense forest trees, and up to our knees in mud.  But the people at the Mountain
house were Christians, and men with lanterns were sent hallooing after us through the dark
night.  When we were thus found we were not many yards from the path, but unfortunately on
the wrong side of a stream.  Through that we waded, and then made our way in safety to the
inn.  In spite of which misadventure I advise all travelers in Lower Canada to go up the Owl's
Head.

On the following day we crossed the lake to Georgeville, and drove around another lake called
the Massawhippi back to Sherbrooke. This was all very well, for it showed us a part of the
country which is comparatively well tilled, and has been long settled; but the Massawhippi
itself is not worth a visit.  The route by which we returned occupies a longer time than the
other, and is more costly, as it must be made in a hired vehicle.  The people here are quiet,
orderly, and I should say a little slow.  It is manifest that a strong feeling against the
Northern States has lately sprung up. This is much to be deprecated, but I cannot but say that
it is natural.  It is not that the Canadians have any special secession feelings, or that they
have entered with peculiar warmth into the questions of American politics; but they have been
vexed and acerbated by the braggadocio of the Northern States.  They constantly hear that they
are to be invaded, and translated into citizens of the Union; that British rule is to be swept
off the continent, and that the star-spangled banner is to be waved over them in pity.  The
star-spangled banner is in fact a fine flag, and has waved to some purpose; but those who live
near it, and not under it, fancy that they hear too much of it.  At the present moment the
loyalty of both the Canadas to Great Britain is beyond all question.  From all that I can hear,
I doubt whether this feeling in the provinces was ever so strong, and under such circumstances
American abuse of England and American braggadocio is more than usually distasteful.  All this
abuse and all this braggadocio come to Canada from the Northern States, and therefore the Southern
cause is at the present moment the more popular with them.

I have said that the Canadians hereabouts are somewhat slow.  As we were driving back to Sherbrooke
it became necessary that we should rest for an hour or so in the middle of the day, and for
this purpose we stopped at a village inn.  It was a large house, in which there appeared to
be three public sitting-rooms of ample size, one of which was occupied as the bar.  In this
there were congregated some six or seven men, seated in arm-chairs round a stove, and among
these I placed myself.  No one spoke a word either to me or to any one else.  No one smoked,
and no one read, nor did they even whittle sticks.  I asked a question, first of one and then
of another, and was answered with monosyllables.  So I gave up any hope in that direction,
and sat staring at the big stove in the middle of the room, as the others did.  Presently another
stranger entered, having arrived in a wagon, as I had done.  He entered the room and sat down,
addressing no one, and addressed by no one. After awhile, however, he spoke.  "Will there be
any chance of dinner here?" he said.  "I guess there'll be dinner by-and-by," answered the
landlord, and then there was silence for another ten minutes, during which the stranger stared
at the stove.  "Is that dinner any way ready?" he asked again.  "I guess it is," said the landlord.
And then the stranger went out to see after his dinner himself.  When we started, at the end
of an hour, nobody said anything to us.  The driver "hitched" on the horses, as they call it,
and we started on our way, having been charged nothing for our accommodation.  That some profit
arose from the horse provender is to be hoped.

On the following day we reached Montreal, which, as I have said before, is the commercial capital
of the two Provinces.  This question of the capitals is at the present moment a subject of
great interest in Canada; but, as I shall be driven to say something on the matter when I report
myself as being at Ottawa, I will refrain now.  There are two special public affairs at the
present moment to interest a traveler in Canada.  The first I have named, and the second is
the Grand Trunk Railway.  I have already stated what is the course of this line.  It runs from
the Western State of Michigan to Portland, on the Atlantic, in the State of Maine, sweeping
the whole length of Canada in its route.  It was originally made by three companies.  The Atlantic
and St. Lawrence constructed it from Portland to Island Pond, on the borders of the States.
The St. Lawrence and Atlantic took it from the southeastern side of the river at Montreal to
the same point, viz., Island Pond.  And the Grand Trunk Company have made it from Detroit to
Montreal, crossing the river there with a stupendous tubular bridge, and have also made the
branch connecting the main line with Quebec and Riviere du Loup.  This latter company is now
incorporated with the St. Lawrence and Atlantic, but has only leased the portion of the line
running through the States.  This they have done, guaranteeing the shareholders an interest
of six per cent.  There never was a grander enterprise set on foot.  I will not say there never
was one more unfortunate, for is there not the Great Eastern, which, by the weight and constancy
of its failures, demands for itself a proud pre-eminence of misfortune? But surely the Grand
Trunk comes next to it.  I presume it to be quite out of the question that the shareholders
should get any interest whatever on their shares for years.  The company, when I was at Montreal,
had not paid the interest due to the Atlantic and St. Lawrence Company for the last year, and
there was a doubt whether the lease would not be broken.  No party that had advanced money
to the undertaking was able to recover what had been advanced.  I believe that one firm in
London had lent nearly a million to the company, and is now willing to accept half the sum
so lent in quittance of the whole debt.  In 1860 the line could not carry the freight that
offered, not having or being able to obtain the necessary rolling stock; and on all sides I
heard men discussing whether the line would be kept open for traffic.  The government of Canada
advanced to the company three millions of money, with an understanding that neither interest
nor principal should be demanded till all other debts were paid and all shareholders in receipt
of six per cent.  interest.  But the three millions were clogged with conditions which, though
they have been of service to the country, have been so expensive to the company that it is
hardly more solvent with it than it would have been without it.  As it is, the whole property
seems to be involved in ruin; and yet the line is one of the grandest commercial conceptions
that was ever carried out on the face of the globe, and in the process of a few years will
do more to make bread cheap in England than any other single enterprise that exists.

I do not know that blame is to be attached to any one.  I at least attach no such blame.  Probably
it might be easy now to show that the road might have been made with sufficient accommodation
for ordinary purposes without some of the more costly details.  The great tubular bridge, on
which was expended 1,300,000 pounds, might, I should think, have been dispensed with.  The
Detroit end of the line might have been left for later time.  As it stands now, however, it
is a wonderful operation carried to a successful issue as far as the public are concerned;
and one can only grieve that it should be so absolute a failure to those who have placed their
money in it.  There are schemes which seem to be too big for men to work out with any ordinary
regard to profit and loss.  The Great Eastern is one, and this is another.  The national advantage
arising from such enterprises is immense; but the wonder is that men should be found willing
to embark their money where the risk is so great and the return even hoped for is so small.

While I was in Canada some gentlemen were there from the Lower Provinces--Nova Scotia, that
is, and New Brunswick--agitating the subject of another great line of railway, from Quebec
to Halifax. The project is one in favor of which very much may be said.  In a national point
of view an Englishman or a Canadian cannot but regret that there should be no winter mode of
exit from, or entrance to, Canada, except through the United States.  The St. Lawrence is blocked
up for four or five months in winter, and the steamers which run to Quebec in the summer run
to Portland during the season of ice.  There is at present no mode of public conveyance between
the Canadas and the Lower Provinces; and an immense district of country on the borders of Lower
Canada, through New Brunswick, and into Nova Scotia, is now absolutely closed against civilization,
which by such a railway would be opened up to the light of day.  We all know how much the want
of such a road was felt when our troops were being forwarded to Canada during the last winter.
It was necessary they should reach their destination without delay; and as the river was closed,
and the passing of troops through the States was of course out of the question, that long overland
journey across Nova Scotia and New Brunswick became a necessity.  It would certainly be a very
great thing for British interests if a direct line could be made from such a port as Halifax,
a port which is open throughout the whole year, up into the Canadas.  If these colonies belonged
to France or to any other despotic government, the thing would be done.  But the colonies do
not belong to any despotic government.

Such a line would, in fact, be a continuance of the Grand Trunk; and who that looks at the
present state of the finances of the Grand Trunk can think it to be on the cards that private
enterprise should come forward with more money--with more millions?  The idea is that England
will advance the money, and that the English House of Commons will guarantee the interest,
with some counter-guarantee from the colonies that this interest shall be duly paid.  But it
would seem that, if such colonial guarantee is to go for anything, the colonies might raise
the money in the money market without the intervention of the British House of Commons.

Montreal is an exceedingly good commercial town, and business there is brisk.  It has now 85,000
inhabitants.  Having said that of it, I do not know what more there is left to say.  Yes; one
word there is to say of Sir William Logan, the creator of the Geological Museum there, and
the head of all matters geological throughout the province.  While he was explaining to me
with admirable perspicuity the result of investigations into which he had poured his whole
heart, I stood by, understanding almost nothing, but envying everything.  That I understood
almost nothing, I know he perceived. That, ever and anon, with all his graciousness, became
apparent. But I wonder whether he perceived also that I did envy everything. I have listened
to geologists by the hour before--have had to listen to them, desirous simply of escape.  I
have listened, and understood absolutely nothing, and have only wished myself away. But I could
have listened to Sir William Logan for the whole day, if time allowed.  I found, even in that
hour, that some ideas found their way through to me, and I began to fancy that even I could
become a geologist at Montreal.

Over and beyond Sir William Logan, there is at Montreal for strangers the drive round the mountain,
not very exciting, and there is the tubular bridge over the St. Lawrence.  This, it must be
understood, is not made in one tube, as is that over the Menai Straits, but is divided into,
I think, thirteen tubes.  To the eye there appear to be twenty-five tubes; but each of the
six side tubes is supported by a pier in the middle.  A great part of the expense of the bridge
was incurred in sinking the shafts for these piers.

CHAPTER V.

UPPER CANADA.

Ottawa is in Upper Canada, but crossing the suspension bridge from Ottawa into Hull, the traveler
is in Lower Canada.  It is therefore exactly in the confines, and has been chosen as the site
of the new government capital very much for this reason.  Other reasons have no doubt had a
share in the decision.  At the time when the choice was made Ottawa was not large enough to
create the jealousy of the more populous towns.  Though not on the main line of railway, it
was connected with it by a branch railway, and it is also connected with the St. Lawrence by
water communication.  And then it stands nobly on a magnificent river, with high, overhanging
rock, and a natural grandeur of position which has perhaps gone far in recommending it to those
whose voice in the matter has been potential.  Having the world of Canada from whence to choose
the site of a new town, the choosers have certainly chosen well.  It is another question whether
or no a new town should have been deemed necessary.

Perhaps it may be well to explain the circumstances under which it was thought expedient thus
to establish a new Canadian capital.  In 1841, when Lord Sydenham was Governor-General of the
provinces, the two Canadas, separate till then, were united under one government. At that time
the people of Lower or French Canada, and the people of Upper or English Canada, differed much
more in their habits and language than they do now.  I do not know that the English have become
in any way Gallicized, but the French have been very materially Anglicized.  But while this
has been in progress national jealousy has been at work, and even yet that national jealousy
is not at an end.  While the two provinces were divided there were, of course, two capitals,
and two seats of government. These were at Quebec for Lower Canada, and at Toronto for Upper
Canada, both which towns are centrically situated as regards the respective provinces.  When
the union was effected, it was deemed expedient that there should be but one capital; and the
small town of Kingstown was selected, which is situated on the lower end of Lake Ontario, in
the upper province.  But Kingstown was found to be inconvenient, lacking space and accommodation
for those who had to follow the government, and the Governor removed it and himself to Montreal.
Montreal is in the lower province, but is very central to both the provinces; and it is moreover
the chief town in Canada. This would have done very well but for an unforeseen misfortune.

It will be remembered by most readers that in 1837 took place the Mackenzie-Papineau rebellion,
of which those who were then old enough to be politicians heard so much in England.  I am not
going back to recount the history of the period, otherwise than to say that the English Canadians
at that time, in withstanding and combating the rebels, did considerable injury to the property
of certain French Canadians, and that, when the rebellion had blown over and those in fault
had been pardoned, a question arose whether or no the government should make good the losses
of those French Canadians who had been injured.  The English Canadians protested that it would
be monstrous that they should be taxed to repair damages suffered by rebels, and made necessary
in the suppression of rebellion.  The French Canadians declared that the rebellion had been
only a just assertion of their rights; that if there had been crime on the part of those who
took up arms, that crime had been condoned, and that the damages had not fallen exclusively
or even chiefly on those who had done so.  I will give no opinion on the merits of the question,
but simply say that blood ran very hot when it was discussed.  At last the Houses of the Provincial
Parliament, then assembled at Montreal, decreed that the losses should be made good by the
public treasury; and the English mob in Montreal, when this decree became known, was roused
to great wrath by a decision which seemed to be condemnatory of English loyalty.  It pelted
Lord Elgin, the Governor-General, with rotten eggs, and burned down the Parliament house. 
Hence there arose, not unnaturally, a strong feeling of anger on the part of the local government
against Montreal; and moreover there was no longer a house in which the Parliament could be
held in that town.  For these conjoint reasons it was decided to move the seat of government
again, and it was resolved that the Governor and the Parliament should sit alternately at Toronto
in Upper Canada, and at Quebec in Lower Canada, remaining four years at each place.  They went
at first to Toronto for two years only, having agreed that they should be there on this occasion
only for the remainder of the term of the then Parliament.  After that they were at Quebec
for four years; then at Toronto for four; and now again are at Quebec.  But this arrangement
has been found very inconvenient.  In the first place there is a great national expenditure
incurred in moving old records and in keeping double records, in moving the library, and, as
I have been informed, even the pictures.  The government clerks also are called on to move
as the government moves; and though an allowance is made to them from the national purse to
cover their loss, the arrangement has nevertheless been felt by them to be a grievance, as
may be well understood.  The accommodation also for the ministers of the government and for
members of the two Houses has been insufficient.  Hotels, lodgings, and furnished houses could
not be provided to the extent required, seeing that they would be left nearly empty for every
alternate space of four years. Indeed, it needs but little argument to prove that the plan
adopted must have been a thoroughly uncomfortable plan, and the wonder is that it should have
been adopted.  Lower Canada had undertaken to make all her leading citizens wretched, providing
Upper Canada would treat hers with equal severity.  This has now gone on for some twelve years,
and as the system was found to be an unendurable nuisance, it has been at last admitted that
some steps must be taken toward selecting one capital for the country.

I should here, in justice to the Canadians, state a remark made to me on this matter by one
of the present leading politicians of the colony.  I cannot think that the migratory scheme
was good but he defended it, asserting that it had done very much to amalgamate the people
of the two provinces; that it had brought Lower Canadians into Upper Canada, and Upper Canadians
into Lower Canada, teaching English to those who spoke only French before, and making each
pleasantly acquainted with the other.  I have no doubt that something--perhaps much--has been
done in this way; but valuable as the result may have been, I cannot think it worth the cost
of the means employed.  The best answer to the above argument consists in the undoubted fact
that a migratory government would never have been established for such a reason.  It was so
established because Montreal, the central town, had given offense, and because the jealousy
of the provinces against each other would not admit of the government being placed entirely
at Quebec, or entirely at Toronto.

But it was necessary that some step should be taken; and as it was found to be unlikely that
any resolution should be reached by the joint provinces themselves, it was loyally and wisely
determined to refer the matter to the Queen.  That Her Majesty has constitutionally the power
to call the Parliament of Canada at any town of Canada which she may select, admits, I conceive,
of no doubt.  It is, I imagine, within her prerogative to call the Parliament of England where
she may please within that realm, though her lieges would be somewhat startled if it were called
otherwhere than in London.  It was therefore well done to ask Her Majesty to act as arbiter
in the matter.  But there are not wanting those in Canada who say that in referring the matter
to the Queen it was in truth referring it to those by whom very many of the Canadians were
least willing to be guided in the matter; to the Governor-General namely, and the Colonial
Secretary.  Many indeed in Canada now declare that the decision simply placed the matter in
the hands of the Governor-General.

Be that as it may, I do not think that any unbiased traveler will doubt that the best possible
selection has been made, presuming always, as we may presume in the discussion, that Montreal
could not be selected.  I take for granted that the rejection of Montreal was regarded as a
sine qua non in the decision.  To me it appears grievous that this should have been so.  It
is a great thing for any country to have a large, leading, world-known city, and I think that
the government should combine with the commerce of the country in carrying out this object.
But commerce can do a great deal more for government than government can do for commerce. 
Government has selected Ottawa as the capital of Canada; but commerce has already made Montreal
the capital, and Montreal will be the chief city of Canada, let government do what it may to
foster the other town. The idea of spiting a town because there has been a row in it seems
to me to be preposterous.  The row was not the work of those who have made Montreal rich and
respectable.  Montreal is more centrical than Ottawa--nay, it is as nearly centrical as any
town can be.  It is easier to get to Montreal from Toronto than to Ottawa; and if from Toronto,
then from all that distant portion of Upper Canada back of Toronto.  To all Lower Canada Montreal
is, as a matter of course, much easier of access than Ottawa.  But having said so much in favor
of Montreal, I will again admit that, putting aside Montreal, the best possible selection has
been made.

When Ottawa was named, no time was lost in setting to work to prepare for the new migration.
In 1859 the Parliament was removed to Quebec, with the understanding that it should remain
there till the new buildings should be completed.  These buildings were absolutely commenced
in April, 1860, and it was, and I believe still is, expected that they will be completed in
1863.  I am now writing in the winter of 1861; and, as is necessary in Canadian winters, the
works are suspended.  But unfortunately they were suspended in the early part of October--on
the first of October-- whereas they might have been continued, as far as the season is concerned,
up to the end of November.  We reached Ottawa on the third of October, and more than a thousand
men had then been just dismissed.  All the money in hand had been expended, and the government--so
it was said--could give no more money till Parliament should meet again.  This was most unfortunate.
In the first place the suspension was against the contract as made with the contractors for
the building; in the next place there was the delay; and then, worst of all, the question again
became agitated whether the colonial legislature were really in earnest with reference to Ottawa.
Many men of mark in the colony were still anxious--I believe are still anxious--to put an end
to the Ottawa scheme, and think that there still exists for them a chance of success.  And
very many men who are not of mark are thus united, and a feeling of doubt on the subject has
been created.  Two hundred and twenty-five thousand pounds have already been spent on these
buildings, and I have no doubt myself that they will be duly completed and duly used.

We went up to the new town by boat, taking the course of the River Ottawa.  We passed St. Ann's,
but no one at St. Ann's seemed to know anything of the brothers who were to rest there on their
weary oars.  At Maxwellstown I could hear nothing of Annie Laurie or of her trysting-place
on the braes; and the turnpike man at Tara could tell me nothing of the site of the hall, and
had never even heard of the harp.  When I go down South, I shall expect to find that the negro
melodies have not yet reached "Old Virginie."  This boat conveyance from Montreal to Ottawa
is not all that could be wished in convenience, for it is allied too closely with railway traveling.
Those who use it leave Montreal by a railway; after nine miles, they are changed into a steamboat.
Then they encounter another railway, and at last reach Ottawa in a second steamboat. But the
river is seen, and a better idea of the country is obtained than can be had solely from the
railway cars.  The scenery is by no means grand, nor is it strikingly picturesque, but it is
in its way interesting.  For a long portion of the river the old primeval forests come down
close to the water's edge, and in the fall of the year the brilliant coloring is very lovely.
It should not be imagined, as I think it often is imagined, that these forests are made up
of splendid trees, or that splendid trees are even common. When timber grows on undrained ground,
and when it is uncared for, it does not seem to approach nearer to its perfection than wheat
and grass do under similar circumstances.  Seen from a little distance, the color and effect
is good; but the trees themselves have shallow roots, and grow up tall, narrow, and shapeless.
It necessarily is so with all timber that is not thinned in its growth.  When fine forest trees
are found, and are left standing alone by any cultivator who may have taste enough to wish
for such adornment, they almost invariably die.  They are robbed of the sickly shelter by which
they have been surrounded; the hot sun strikes the uncovered fibers of the roots, and the poor,
solitary invalid languishes, and at last dies.

As one ascends the river, which by its breadth forms itself into lakes, one is shown Indian
villages clustering down upon the bank. Some years ago these Indians were rich, for the price
of furs, in which they dealt, was high; but furs have become cheaper, and the beavers, with
which they used to trade, are almost valueless.  That a change in the fashion of hats should
have assisted to polish these poor fellows off the face of creation, must, one may suppose,
be very unintelligible to them; but nevertheless it is probably a subject of deep speculation.
If the reading world were to take to sermons again and eschew their novels, Messrs. Thackeray,
Dickens, and some others would look about them and inquire into the causes of such a change
with considerable acuteness.  They might not, perhaps, hit the truth, and these Indians are
much in that predicament.  It is said that very few pure-blooded Indians are now to be found
in their villages, but I doubt whether this is not erroneous.  The children of the Indians
are now fed upon baked bread and on cooked meat, and are brought up in houses.  They are nursed
somewhat as the children of the white men are nursed; and these practices no doubt have done
much toward altering their appearance.  The negroes who have been bred in the States, and whose
fathers have been so bred before them, differ both in color and form from their brothers who
have been born and nurtured in Africa.

I said in the last chapter that the City of Ottawa was still to be built; but I must explain,
lest I should draw down on my head the wrath of the Ottawaites, that the place already contains
a population of 15,000 inhabitants.  As, however, it is being prepared for four times that
number--for eight times that number, let us hope--and as it straggles over a vast extent of
ground, it gives one the idea of a city in an active course of preparation. In England we know
nothing about unbuilt cities.  With us four or five blocks of streets together never assume
that ugly, unfledged appearance which belongs to the half-finished carcass of a house, as they
do so often on the other side of the Atlantic.  Ottawa is preparing for itself broad streets
and grand thoroughfares.  The buildings already extend over a length considerably exceeding
two miles; and half a dozen hotels have been opened, which, if I were writing a guide-book
in a complimentary tone, it would be my duty to describe as first rate.  But the half dozen
first-rate hotels, though open, as yet enjoy but a moderate amount of custom.  All this justifies
me, I think, in saying that the city has as yet to get itself built.  The manner in which this
is being done justifies me also in saying that the Ottawaites are going about their task with
a worthy zeal.

To me I confess that the nature of the situation has great charms, regarding it as the site
for a town.  It is not on a plain; and from the form of the rock overhanging the river, and
of the hill that falls from thence down to the water, it has been found impracticable to lay
out the place in right-angled parallelograms. A right-angled parallelogramical city, such as
are Philadelphia and the new portion of New York, is from its very nature odious to me. I know
that much may be said in its favor--that drainage and gas- pipes come easier to such a shape,
and that ground can be better economized.  Nevertheless, I prefer a street that is forced to
twist itself about.  I enjoy the narrowness of Temple Bar and the misshapen curvature of Picket
Street.  The disreputable dinginess of Hollowell Street is dear to me, and I love to thread
my way up the Olympic into Covent Garden.  Fifth Avenue in New York is as grand as paint and
glass can make it; but I would not live in a palace in Fifth Avenue if the corporation of the
city would pay my baker's and butcher's bills.

The town of Ottawa lies between two waterfalls.  The upper one, or Rideau Fall, is formed by
the confluence of a small river with the larger one; and the lower fall--designated as lower
because it is at the foot of the hill, though it is higher up the Ottawa River-- is called
the Chaudiere, from its resemblance to a boiling kettle. This is on the Ottawa River itself.
The Rideau Fall is divided into two branches, thus forming an island in the middle, as is the
case at Niagara.  It is pretty enough, and worth visiting even were it farther from the town
than it is; but by those who have hunted out many cataracts in their travels it will not be
considered very remarkable.  The Chaudiere Fall I did think very remarkable.  It is of trifling
depth, being formed by fractures in the rocky bed of the river; but the waters have so cut
the rock as to create beautiful forms in the rush which they make in their descent. Strangers
are told to look at these falls from the suspension bridge; and it is well that they should
do so.  But, in so looking at them, they obtain but a very small part of their effect.  On
the Ottawa side of the bridge is a brewery, which brewery is surrounded by a huge timber-yard.
This timber yard I found to be very muddy, and the passing and repassing through it is a work
of trouble; but nevertheless let the traveler by all means make his way through the mud, and
scramble over the timber, and cross the plank bridges which traverse the streams of the saw-mills,
and thus take himself to the outer edge of the wood-work over the water.  If he will then seat
himself, about the hour of sunset, he will see the Chaudiere Fall aright.

But the glory of Ottawa will be--and, indeed, already is--the set of public buildings which
is now being erected on the rock which guards, as it were, the town from the river.  How much
of the excellence of these buildings may be due to the taste of Sir Edmund Head, the late governor,
I do not know.  That he has greatly interested himself in the subject, is well known; and,
as the style of the different buildings is so much alike as to make one whole, though the designs
of different architects were selected and these different architects employed, I imagine that
considerable alterations must have been made in the original drawings.  There are three buildings,
forming three sides of a quadrangle; but they are not joined, the vacant spaces at the corner
being of considerable extent.  The fourth side of the quadrangle opens upon one of the principal
streets of the town.  The center building is intended for the Houses of Parliament, and the
two side buildings for the government offices.  Of the first Messrs. Fuller and Jones are the
architects, and of the latter Messrs. Stent and Laver.  I did not have the pleasure of meeting
any of these gentlemen; but I take upon myself to say that, as regards purity of art and manliness
of conception, their joint work is entitled to the very highest praise.  How far the buildings
may be well arranged for the required purposes--how far they maybe economical in construction
or specially adapted to the severe climate of the country--I cannot say; but I have no hesitation
in risking my reputation for judgment in giving my warmest commendation to them as regards
beauty of outline and truthful nobility of detail.

I shall not attempt to describe them, for I should interest no one in doing so, and should
certainly fail in my attempt to make any reader understand me.  I know no modern Gothic purer
of its kind or less sullied with fictitious ornamentation.  Our own Houses of Parliament are
very fine, but it is, I believe, generally felt that the ornamentation is too minute; and,
moreover, it may be questioned whether perpendicular Gothic is capable of the highest nobility
which architecture can achieve.  I do not pretend to say that these Canadian public buildings
will reach that highest nobility.  They must be finished before any final judgment can be pronounced;
but I do feel very certain that that final judgment will be greatly in their favor.  The total
frontage of the quadrangle, including the side buildings, is 1200 feet; that of the center
buildings is 475.  As I have said before, 225,000 pounds have already been expended; and it
is estimated that the total cost, including the arrangement and decoration of the ground behind
the building and in the quadrangle, will be half a million.

The buildings front upon what will, I suppose, be the principal street of Ottawa, and they
stand upon a rock looking immediately down upon the river.  In this way they are blessed with
a site peculiarly happy.  Indeed, I cannot at this moment remember any so much so.  The Castle
of Edinburgh stands very well; but then, like many other castles, it stands on a summit by
itself, and can only be approached by a steep ascent.  These buildings at Ottawa, though they
look down from a grand eminence immediately on the river, are approached from the town without
any ascent.  The rock, though it falls almost precipitously down to the water is covered with
trees and shrubs; and then the river that runs beneath is rapid, bright, and picturesque in
the irregularity of all its lines.  The view from the back of the library, up to the Chaudiere
Falls and to the saw-mills by which they are surrounded, is very lovely.  So that I will say
again that I know no site for such a set of buildings so happy as regards both beauty and grandeur.
It is intended that the library, of which the walls were only ten feet above the ground when
I was there, shall be an octagonal building, in shape and outward character like the chapter
house of a cathedral.  This structure will, I presume, be surrounded by gravel walks and green
sward.  Of the library there is a large model showing all the details of the architecture;
and if that model be ultimately followed, this building alone will be worthy of a visit from
English tourists.  To me it was very wonderful to find such an edifice in the course of erection
on the banks of a wild river almost at the back of Canada.  But if ever I visit Canada again,
it will be to see those buildings when completed.

And now, like all friendly critics, having bestowed my modicum of praise, I must proceed to
find fault.  I cannot bring myself to administer my sugar-plum without adding to it some bitter
morsel by way of antidote.  The building to the left of the quadrangle as it is entered is
deficient in length, and on that account appears mean to the eye.  The two side buildings are
brought up close to the street, so that each has a frontage immediately on the street. Such
being the case, they should be of equal length, or nearly so. Had the center of one fronted
the center of the other, a difference of length might have been allowed; but in this case the
side front of the smaller one would not have reached the street.  As it is, the space between
the main building and the smaller wing is disproportionably large, and the very distance at
which it stands will, I fear, give to it that appearance of meanness of which I have spoken.
The clerk of the works, who explained to me with much courtesy the plan of the buildings, stated
that the design of this wing was capable of elongation, and had been expressly prepared with
that object.  If this be so, I trust that the defect will be remedied.

The great trade of Canada is lumbering; and lumbering consists in cutting down pine-trees up
in the far distant forests, in hewing or sawing them into shape for market, and getting them
down the rivers to Quebec, from whence they are exported to Europe, and chiefly to England.
Timber in Canada is called lumber; those engaged in the trade are called lumberers, and the
business itself is called lumbering.  After a lapse of time it must no doubt become monotonous
to those engaged in it, and the name is not engaging; but there is much about it that is very
picturesque.  A saw-mill worked by water power is almost always a pretty object; and stacks
of new-cut timber are pleasant to the smell, and group themselves not amiss on the water's
edge.  If I had the time, and were a year or two younger, I should love well to go up lumbering
into the woods.  The men for this purpose are hired in the fall of the year, and are sent up
hundreds of miles away to the pine forests in strong gangs.  Everything is there found for
them.  They make log huts for their shelter, and food of the best and the strongest is taken
up for their diet.  But no strong drink of any kind is allowed, nor is any within reach of
the men.  There are no publics, no shebeen houses, no grog-shops.  Sobriety is an enforced
virtue; and so much is this considered by the masters, and understood by the men, that very
little contraband work is done in the way of taking up spirits to these settlements.  It may
be said that the work up in the forests is done with the assistance of no stronger drink than
tea; and it is very hard work.  There cannot be much work that is harder; and it is done amid
the snows and forests of a Canadian winter.  A convict in Bermuda cannot get through his daily
eight hours of light labor without an allowance of rum; but a Canadian lumberer can manage
to do his daily task on tea without milk.  These men, however, are by no means teetotalers.
When they come back to the towns they break out, and reward themselves for their long-enforced
moderation.  The wages I found to be very various, running from thirteen or fourteen dollars
a month to twenty-eight or thirty, according to the nature of the work.  The men who cut down
the trees receive more than those who hew them when down, and these again more than the under
class who make the roads and clear the ground.  These money wages, however, are in addition
to their diet.  The operation requiring the most skill is that of marking the trees for the
axe.  The largest only are worth cutting, and form and soundness must also be considered.

But if I were about to visit a party of lumberers in the forest, I should not be disposed to
pass a whole winter with them.  Even of a very good thing one may have too much, I would go
up in the spring, when the rafts are being formed in the small tributary streams, and I would
come down upon one of them, shooting the rapids of the rivers as soon as the first freshets
had left the way open.  A freshet in the rivers is the rush of waters occasioned by melting
snow and ice.  The first freshets take down the winter waters of the nearer lakes and rivers.
Then the streams become for a time navigable, and the rafts go down.  After that comes the
second freshet, occasioned by the melting of far-off snow and ice up in the great northern
lakes, which are little known.  These rafts are of immense construction, such as those which
we have seen on the Rhone and Rhine, and often contain timber to the value of two, three, and
four thousand pounds.  At the rapids the large rafts are, as it were, unyoked, and divided
into small portions, which go down separately.  The excitement and motion of such transit must,
I should say, be very joyous.  I was told that the Prince of Wales desired to go down a rapid
on a raft, but that the men in charge would not undertake to say that there was no possible
danger; whereupon those who accompanied the prince requested his Royal Highness to forbear.
I fear that, in these careful days, crowned heads and their heirs must often find themselves
in the position of Sancho at the banquet.  The sailor prince, who came after his brother, was
allowed to go down a rapid, and got, as I was told, rather a rough bump as he did so.

Ottawa is a great place for these timber rafts.  Indeed, it may, I think, be called the headquarters
of timber for the world.  Nearly all the best pine-wood comes down the Ottawa and its tributaries.
The other rivers by which timber is brought down to the St. Lawrence are chiefly the St. Maurice,
the Madawaska, and the Saguenay; but the Ottawa and its tributaries water 75,000 square miles,
whereas the other three rivers, with their tributaries, water only 53,000.  The timber from
the Ottawa and St. Maurice finds its way down the St. Lawrence to Quebec, where, however, it
loses the whole of its picturesque character.  The Saguenay and the Madawaska fall into the
St. Lawrence below Quebec.

From Ottawa we went by rail to Prescott, which is surely one of the most wretched little places
to be found in any country. Immediately opposite to it, on the other side of the St. Lawrence,
is the thriving town of Ogdensburg.  But Ogdensburg is in the United States.  Had we been able
to learn at Ottawa any facts as to the hours of the river steamers and railways, we might have
saved time and have avoided Prescott; but this was out of the question. Had I asked the exact
hour at which I might reach Calcutta by the quickest route, an accurate reply would not have
been more out of the question.  I was much struck, at Prescott--and, indeed, all through Canada,
though more in the upper than in the lower province--by the sturdy roughness, some would call
it insolence, of those of the lower classes of the people with whom I was brought into contact.
If the words "lower classes" give offense to any reader, I beg to apologize--to apologize,
and to assert that I am one of the last of men to apply such a term in a sense of reproach
to those who earn their bread by the labor of their hands.  But it is hard to find terms which
will be understood; and that term, whether it give offense or no, will be understood.  Of course
such a complaint as that I now make is very common as made against the States.  Men in the
States, with horned hands and fustian coats, are very often most unnecessarily insolent in
asserting their independence.  What I now mean to say is that precisely the same fault is to
be found in Canada.  I know well what the men mean when they offend in this manner.  And when
I think on the subject with deliberation at my own desk, I can not only excuse, but almost
approve them.  But when one personally encounters this corduroy braggadocio; when the man to
whose services one is entitled answers one with determined insolence; when one is bidden to
follow "that young lady," meaning the chambermaid, or desired, with a toss of the head, to
wait for the "gentleman who is coming," meaning the boots, the heart is sickened, and the English
traveler pines for the civility--for the servility, if my American friends choose to call it
so--of a well-ordered servant.  But the whole scene is easily construed, and turned into English.
A man is asked by a stranger some question about his employment, and he replies in a tone which
seems to imply anger, insolence, and a dishonest intention to evade the service for which he
is paid.  Or, if there be no question of service or payment, the man's manner will be the same,
and the stranger feels that he is slapped in the face and insulted.  The translation of it
is this: The man questioned, who is aware that as regards coat, hat, boots, and outward cleanliness
he is below him by whom he is questioned, unconsciously feels himself called upon to assert
his political equality.  It is his shibboleth that he is politically equal to the best, that
he is independent, and that his labor, though it earn him but a dollar a day by porterage,
places him as a citizen on an equal rank with the most wealthy fellow-man that may employ or
accost him.  But, being so inferior in that coat, hat, and boots matter, he is forced to assert
his equality by some effort.  As he improves in externals, he will diminish the roughness of
his claim.  As long as the man makes his claim with any roughness, so long does he acknowledge
within himself some feeling of external inferiority.  When that has gone--when the American
has polished himself up by education and general well-being to a feeling of external equality
with gentlemen, he shows, I think, no more of that outward braggadocio of independence than
a Frenchman.

But the blow at the moment of the stroke is very galling.  I confess that I have occasionally
all but broken down beneath it. But when it is thought of afterward it admits of full excuse.
No effort that a man can make is better than a true effort at independence.  But this insolence
is a false effort, it will be said.  It should rather be called a false accompaniment to a
life- long true effort.  The man probably is not dishonest, does not desire to shirk any service
which is due from him, is not even inclined to insolence.  Accept his first declaration of
equality for that which it is intended to represent, and the man afterward will be found obliging
and communicative.  If occasion offer he will sit down in the room with you, and will talk
with you on any subject that he may choose; but having once ascertained that you show no resentment
for this assertion of equality, he will do pretty nearly all that is asked.  He will at any
rate do as much in that way as an Englishman.  I say thus much on this subject now especially,
because I was quite as much struck by the feeling in Canada as I was within the States.

From Prescott we went on by the Grand Trunk Railway to Toronto, and stayed there for a few
days.  Toronto is the capital of the province of Upper Canada, and I presume will in some degree
remain so, in spite of Ottawa and its pretensions.  That is, the law courts will still be held
there.  I do not know that it will enjoy any other supremacy unless it be that of trade and
population. Some few years ago Toronto was advancing with rapid strides, and was bidding fair
to rival Quebec, or even perhaps Montreal. Hamilton also, another town of Upper Canada, was
going ahead in the true American style; but then reverses came in trade, and the towns were
checked for awhile.  Toronto, with a neighboring suburb which is a part of it, as Southwark
is of London, contains now over 50,000 inhabitants.  The streets are all parallelogramical,
and there is not a single curvature to rest the eye.  It is built down close upon Lake Ontario;
and as it is also on the Grand Trunk Railway, it has all the aid which facility of traffic
can give it.

The two sights of Toronto are the Osgoode Hall and the University. The Osgoode Hall is to Upper
Canada what the Four Courts are to Ireland.  The law courts are all held there.  Exteriorly,
little can be said for Osgoode Hall, whereas the exterior of the Four Courts in Dublin is very
fine; but as an interior, the temple of Themis at Toronto beats hollow that which the goddess
owns in Dublin.  In Dublin the courts themselves are shabby, and the space under the dome is
not so fine as the exterior seems to promise that it should be.  In Toronto the courts themselves
are, I think, the most commodious that I ever saw, and the passages, vestibules, and hall are
very handsome.  In Upper Canada the common-law judges and those in chancery are divided as
they are in England; but it is, as I was told, the opinion of Canadian lawyers that the work
may be thrown together.  Appeal is allowed in criminal cases; but as far as I could learn such
power of appeal is held to be both troublesome and useless.  In Lower Canada the old French
laws are still administered.

But the University is the glory of Toronto.  This is a Gothic building, and will take rank
after, but next to, the buildings at Ottawa.  It will be the second piece of noble architecture
in Canada, and as far as I know on the American continent.  It is, I believe, intended to be
purely Norman, though I doubt whether the received types of Norman architecture have not been
departed from in many of the windows.  Be this as it may, the college is a manly, noble structure,
free from false decoration, and infinitely creditable to those who projected it.  I was informed
by the head of the college that it has been open only two years; and here also I fancy that
the colony has been much indebted to the taste of the late Governor, Sir Edmund Head.

Toronto as a city is not generally attractive to a traveler.  The country around it is flat;
and, though it stands on a lake, that lake has no attributes of beauty.  Large inland seas,
such as are these great Northern lakes of America, never have such attributes. Picturesque
mountains rise from narrow valleys, such as form the beds of lakes in Switzerland, Scotland,
and Northern Italy; but from such broad waters as those of Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, and Lake
Michigan, the shores shelve very gradually, and have none of the materials of lovely scenery.

The streets in Toronto are framed with wood, or rather planked, as are those of Montreal and
Quebec; but they are kept in better order.  I should say that the planks are first used at
Toronto, then sent down by the lake to Montreal, and when all but rotted out there, are again
floated off by the St. Lawrence to be used in the thoroughfares of the old French capital.
But if the streets of Toronto are better than those of the other towns, the roads around it
are worse.  I had the honor of meeting two distinguished members of the Provincial Parliament
at dinner some few miles out of town, and, returning back a short while after they had left
our host's house, was glad to be of use in picking them up from a ditch into which their carriage
had been upset.  To me it appeared all but miraculous that any carriage should make its way
over that road without such misadventure.  I may perhaps be allowed to hope that the discomfiture
of these worthy legislators may lead to some improvement in the thoroughfare.

I had on a previous occasion gone down the St. Lawrence, through the Thousand Isles and over
the Rapids, in one of those large summer steamboats which ply upon the lake and river.  I cannot
say that I was much struck by the scenery, and therefore did not encroach upon my time by making
the journey again.  Such an opinion will be regarded as heresy by many who think much of the
Thousand Islands.  I do not believe that they would be expressly noted by any traveler who
was not expressly bidden to admire them.

From Toronto we went across to Niagara, re-entering the States at Lewiston, in New York.

CHAPTER VI.

THE CONNECTION OF THE CANADAS WITH GREAT BRITAIN.

When the American war began troops were sent out to Canada, and when I was in the provinces
more troops were then expected.  The matter was much talked of, as a matter of course, in Canada,
and it had been discussed in England before I left.  I had seen much said about it in the English
papers since, and it also had become the subject of very hot question among the politicians
of the Northern States.  The measure had at that time given more umbrage to the North than
anything else done or said by England from the beginning of the war up to that time, except
the declaration made by Lord John Russell in the House of Commons as to the neutrality to be
preserved by England between the two belligerents.  The argument used by the Northern States
was this: if France collects men and material of war in the neighborhood of England, England
considers herself injured, calls for an explanation, and talks of invasion. Therefore, as England
is now collecting men and material of war in our neighborhood, we will consider ourselves injured.
It does not suit us to ask for an explanation, because it is not our habit to interfere with
other nations.  We will not pretend to say that we think we are to be invaded.  But as we clearly
are injured, we will express our anger at that injury, and when the opportunity shall come
will take advantage of having that new grievance.

As we all know, a very large increase of force was sent when we were still in doubt as to the
termination of the Trent affair, and imagined that war was imminent.  But the sending of that
large force did not anger the Americans as the first dispatch of troops to Canada had angered
them.  Things had so turned out that measures of military precaution were acknowledged by them
to be necessary. I cannot, however, but think that Mr. Seward might have spared that offer
to send British troops across Maine, and so also have all his countrymen thought by whom I
have heard the matter discussed.

As to any attempt at invasion of Canada by the Americans, or idea of punishing the alleged
injuries suffered by the States from Great Britain by the annexation of those provinces, I
do not believe that any sane-minded citizens of the States believe in the possibility of such
retaliation.  Some years since the Americans thought that Canada might shine in the Union firmament
as a new star; but that delusion is, I think, over.  Such annexation, if ever made, must have
been made not only against the arms of England, but must also have been made in accordance
with the wishes of the people so annexed.  It was then believed that the Canadians were not
averse to such a change, and there may possibly have then been among them the remnant of such
a wish.  There is certainly no such desire now, not even a remnant of such a desire; and the
truth on this matter is, I think, generally acknowledged.  The feeling in Canada is one of
strong aversion to the United States government and of predilection for self-government under
the English Crown.  A faineant governor and the prestige of British power is now the political
aspiration of the Canadians in general; and I think that this is understood in the States.
Moreover, the States have a job of work on hand which, as they themselves are well aware, is
taxing all their energies.  Such being the case, I do not think that England needs to fear
any invasion of Canada authorized by the States government.

This feeling of a grievance on the part of the States was a manifest absurdity.  The new reinforcement
of the garrisons in Canada did not, when I was in Canada, amount, as I believe, to more than
2000 men.  But had it amounted to 20,000, the States would have had no just ground for complaint.
Of all nationalities that in modern days have risen to power, they, above all others, have
shown that they would do what they liked with their own, indifferent to foreign counsels and
deaf to foreign remonstrance. "Do you go your way, and let us go ours.  We will trouble you
with no question, nor do you trouble us."  Such has been their national policy, and it has
obtained for them great respect.  They have resisted the temptation of putting their fingers
into the caldron of foreign policy; and foreign politicians, acknowledging their reserve in
this respect, have not been offended at the bristles with which their Noli me tangere has been
proclaimed.  Their intelligence has been appreciated, and their conduct has been respected.
But if this has been their line of policy, they must be entirely out of court in raising any
question as to the position of British troops on British soil.

"It shows us that you doubt us," an American says, with an air of injured honor--or did say,
before that Trent affair.  "And it is done to express sympathy with the South.  The Southerners
understand it, and we understand it also.  We know where your hearts are--nay, your very souls.
They are among the slave- begotten cotton bales of the rebel South."  Then comes the whole
of the long argument in which it seems so easy to an Englishman to prove that England, in the
whole of this sad matter, has been true and loyal to her friend.  She could not interfere when
the husband and wife would quarrel.  She could only grieve, and wish that things might come
right and smooth for both parties.  But the argument, though so easy, is never effectual.

It seems to me foolish in an American to quarrel with England for sending soldiers to Canada;
but I cannot say that I thought it was well done to send them at the beginning of the war.
The English government did not, I presume, take this step with reference to any possible invasion
of Canada by the government of the States.  We are fortifying Portsmouth, and Portland, and
Plymouth, because we would fain be safe against the French army acting under a French Emperor.
But we sent 2000 troops to Canada, if I understand the matter rightly, to guard our provinces
against the filibustering energies of a mass of unemployed American soldiers, when those soldiers
should come to be disbanded.  When this war shall be over-- a war during which not much, if
any, under a million of American citizens will have been under arms--it will not be easy for
all who survive to return to their old homes and old occupations.  Nor does a disbanded soldier
always make a good husbandman, notwithstanding the great examples of Cincinnatus and Bird-o'-freedom
Sawin.  It may be that a considerable amount of filibustering energy will be afloat, and that
the then government of those who neighbor us in Canada will have other matters in hand more
important to them than the controlling of these unruly spirits.  That, as I take it, was the
evil against which we of Great Britain and of Canada desired to guard ourselves.

But I doubt whether 2000 or 10,000 British soldiers would be any effective guard against such
inroads, and I doubt more strongly whether any such external guarding will be necessary.  If
the Canadians were prepared to fraternize with filibusters from the States, neither three nor
ten thousand soldiers would avail against such a feeling over a frontier stretching from the
State of Maine to the shores of Lake Huron and Lake Erie.  If such a feeling did exist--if
the Canadians wished the change--in God's name let them go.  It is for their sakes, and not
for our own, that we would have them bound to us.  But the Canadians are averse to such a change
with a degree of feeling that amounts to national intensity.  Their sympathies are with the
Southern States, not because they care for cotton, not because they are anti-abolitionists,
not because they admire the hearty pluck of those who are endeavoring to work out for themselves
a new revolution.  They sympathize with the South from strong dislike to the aggression, the
braggadocio, and the insolence they have felt upon their own borders.  They dislike Mr. Seward's
weak and vulgar joke with the Duke of Newcastle.  They dislike Mr. Everett's flattering hints
to his countrymen as to the one nation that is to occupy the whole continent.  They dislike
the Monroe doctrine.  They wonder at the meekness with which England has endured the vauntings
of the Northern States, and are endued with no such meekness of their own.  They would, I believe,
be well prepared to meet and give an account of any filibusters who might visit them; and I
am not sure that it is wisely done on our part to show any intention of taking the work out
of their hands.

But I am led to this opinion in no degree by a feeling that Great Britain ought to grudge the
cost of the soldiers.  If Canada will be safer with them, in Heaven's name let her have them.
It has been argued in many places, not only with regard to Canada, but as to all our self-governed
colonies, that military service should not be given at British expense and with British men
to any colony which has its own representative government and which levies its own taxes. 
"While Great Britain absolutely held the reins of government, and did as it pleased with the
affairs of its dependencies," such politicians say, "it was just and right that she should
pay the bill.  As long as her government of a colony was paternal, so long was it right that
the mother country should put herself in the place of a father, and enjoy a father's undoubted
prerogative of putting his hand into his breeches pocket to provide for all the wants of his
child.  But when the adult son set up for himself in business--having received education from
the parent, and having had his apprentice fees duly paid--then that son should settle his own
bills, and look no longer to the paternal pocket." Such is the law of the world all over, from
little birds, whose young fly away when fledged, upward to men and nations.  Let the father
work for the child while he is a child; but when the child has become a man, let him lean no
longer on his father's staff.

The argument is, I think, very good; but it proves not that we are relieved from the necessity
of assisting our colonies with payments made out of British taxes, but that we are still bound
to give such assistance, and that we shall continue to be so bound as long as we allow these
colonies to adhere to us or as they allow us to adhere to them.  In fact, the young bird is
not yet fully fledged.  That illustration of the father and the child is a just one, but in
order to make it just it should be followed throughout.  When the son is in fact established
on his own bottom, then the father expects that he will live without assistance.  But when
the son does so live, he is freed from all paternal control.  The father, while he expects
to be obeyed, continues to fill the paternal office of paymaster--of paymaster, at any rate,
to some extent. And so, I think, it must be with our colonies.  The Canadas at present are
not independent, and have not political power of their own apart from the political power of
Great Britain.  England has declared herself neutral as regards the Northern and Southern States,
and by that neutrality the Canadas are bound; and yet the Canadas were not consulted in the
matter.  Should England go to war with France, Canada must close her ports against French vessels.
If England chooses to send her troops to Canadian barracks, Canada cannot refuse to accept
them.  If England should send to Canada an unpopular governor, Canada has no power to reject
his services.  As long as Canada is a colony so called, she cannot be independent, and should
not be expected to walk alone.  It is exactly the same with the colonies of Australia, with
New Zealand, with the Cape of Good Hope, and with Jamaica.  While England enjoys the prestige
of her colonies, while she boasts that such large and now populous territories are her dependencies,
she must and should be content to pay some portion of the bill.  Surely it is absurd on our
part to quarrel with Caffre warfare, with New Zealand fighting, and the rest of it.  Such complaints
remind one of an ancient pater familias who insists on having his children and his grandchildren
under the old paternal roof, and then grumbles because the butcher's bill is high.  Those who
will keep large households and bountiful tables should not be afraid of facing the butcher's
bill or unhappy at the tonnage of the coal.  It is a grand thing, that power of keeping a large
table; but it ceases to be grand when the items heaped upon it cause inward groans and outward
moodiness.

Why should the colonies remain true to us as children are true to their parents, if we grudge
them the assistance which is due to a child?  They raise their own taxes, it is said, and administer
them.  True; and it is well that the growing son should do something for himself.  While the
father does all for him, the son's labor belongs to the father.  Then comes a middle state
in which the son does much for himself, but not all.  In that middle state now stand our prosperous
colonies.  Then comes the time when the son shall stand alone by his own strength; and to that
period of manly, self-respected strength let us all hope that those colonies are advancing.
It is very hard for a mother country to know when such a time has come; and hard also for the
child-colony to recognize justly the period of its own maturity.  Whether or no such severance
may ever take place without a quarrel, without weakness on one side and pride on the other,
is a problem in the world's history yet to be solved.  The most successful child that ever
yet has gone off from a successful parent, and taken its own path into the world, is without
doubt the nation of the United States.  Their present troubles are the result and the proofs
of their success.  The people that were too great to be dependent on any nation have now spread
till they are themselves too great for a single nationality.  No one now thinks that that daughter
should have remained longer subject to her mother.  But the severance was not made in amity,
and the shrill notes of the old family quarrel are still sometimes heard across the waters.

From all this the question arises whether that problem may ever be solved with reference to
the Canadas.  That it will never be their destiny to join themselves to the States of the Union,
I feel fully convinced.  In the first place it is becoming evident from the present circumstances
of the Union, if it had never been made evident by history before, that different people with
different habits, living at long distances from each other, cannot well be brought together
on equal terms under one government.  That noble ambition of the Americans that all the continent
north of the isthmus should be united under one flag, has already been thrown from its saddle.
The North and South are virtually separated, and the day will come in which the West also will
secede.  As population increases and trades arise peculiar to those different climates, the
interests of the people will differ, and a new secession will take place beneficial alike to
both parties.  If this be so, if even there be any tendency this way, it affords the strongest
argument against the probability of any future annexation of the Canadas.  And then, in the
second place, the feeling of Canada is not American, but British.  If ever she be separated
from Great Britain, she will be separated as the States were separated. She will desire to
stand alone, and to enter herself as one among the nations of the earth.

She will desire to stand alone; alone, that is without dependence either on England or on the
States.  But she is so circumstanced geographically that she can never stand alone without
amalgamation with our other North American provinces.  She has an outlet to the sea at the
Gulf of St. Lawrence, but it is only a summer outlet. Her winter outlet is by railway through
the States, and no other winter outlet is possible for her except through the sister provinces.
Before Canada can be nationally great, the line of railway which now runs for some hundred
miles below Quebec to Riviere du Loup must be continued on through New Brunswick and Nova Scotia
to the port of Halifax.

When I was in Canada I heard the question discussed of a federal government between the provinces
of the two Canadas, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia.  To these were added, or not added, according
to the opinion of those who spoke, the smaller outlying colonies of Newfoundland and Prince
Edward's Island.  If a scheme for such a government were projected in Downing Street, all would
no doubt be included, and a clean sweep would be made without difficulty.  But the project
as made in the colonies appears in different guises, as it comes either from Canada or from
one of the other provinces. The Canadian idea would be that the two Canadas should form two
States of such a confederation, and the other provinces a third State.  But this slight participation
in power would hardly suit the views of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.  In speaking of such
a federal government as this, I shall of course be understood as meaning a confederation acting
in connection with a British governor, and dependent upon Great Britain as far as the different
colonies are now dependent.

I cannot but think that such a confederation might be formed with great advantage to all the
colonies and to Great Britain.  At present the Canadas are in effect almost more distant from
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick than they are from England.  The intercourse between them is
very slight--so slight that it may almost be said that there is no intercourse.  A few men
of science or of political importance may from time to time make their way from one colony
into the other, but even this is not common. Beyond that they seldom see each other.  Though
New Brunswick borders both with Lower Canada and with Nova Scotia, thus making one whole of
the three colonies, there is neither railroad nor stage conveyance running from one to the
other.  And yet their interests should be similar.  From geographical position their modes
of life must be alike, and a close conjunction between them is essentially necessary to give
British North America any political importance in the world.  There can be no such conjunction,
no amalgamation of interests, until a railway shall have been made joining the Canada Grand
Trunk Line with the two outlying colonies.  Upper Canada can feed all England with wheat, and
could do so without any aid of railway through the States, if a railway were made from Quebec
to Halifax.  But then comes the question of the cost.  The Canada Grand Trunk is at the present
moment at the lowest ebb of commercial misfortune, and with such a fact patent to the world,
what company will come forward with funds for making four or five hundred miles of railway,
through a district of which one-half is not yet prepared for population?  It would be, I imagine,
out of the question that such a speculation should for many years give any fair commercial
interest on the money to be expended.  But nevertheless to the colonies--that is, to the enormous
regions of British North America--such a railroad would be invaluable.  Under such circumstances
it is for the Home Government and the colonies between them to see how such a measure may be
carried out.  As a national expenditure, to be defrayed in the course of years by the territories
interested, the sum of money required would be very small.

But how would this affect England?  And how would England be affected by a union of the British
North American colonies under one federal government?  Before this question can be answered,
he who prepares to answer it must consider what interest England has in her colonies, and for
what purpose she holds them.  Does she hold them for profit, or for glory, or for power; or
does she hold them in order that she may carry out the duty which has devolved upon her of
extending civilization, freedom, and well-being through the new uprising nations of the world?
Does she hold them, in fact, for her own benefit, or does she hold them for theirs?  I know
nothing of the ethics of the Colonial Office, and not much perhaps of those of the House of
Commons; but looking at what Great Britain has hitherto done in the way of colonization, I
cannot but think that the national ambition looks to the welfare of the colonists, and not
to home aggrandizement.  That the two may run together is most probable.  Indeed, there can
be no glory to a people so great or so readily recognized by mankind at large as that of spreading
civilization from east to west and from north to south.  But the one object should be the prosperity
of the colonists, and not profit, nor glory, nor even power, to the parent country.

There is no virtue of which more has been said and sung than patriotism, and none which, when
pure and true, has led to finer results.  Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori.  To live for
one's country also is a very beautiful and proper thing.  But if we examine closely much patriotism,
that is so called, we shall find it going hand in hand with a good deal that is selfish, and
with not a little that is devilish.  It was some fine fury of patriotic feeling which enabled
the national poet to put into the mouth of every Englishman that horrible prayer with regard
to our enemies which we sing when we wish to do honor to our sovereign.  It did not seem to
him that it might be well to pray that their hearts should be softened, and our own hearts
softened also.  National success was all that a patriotic poet could desire, and therefore
in our national hymn have we gone on imploring the Lord to arise and scatter our enemies; to
confound their politics, whether they be good or ill; and to expose their knavish tricks--such
knavish tricks being taken for granted.  And then, with a steady confidence, we used to declare
how certain we were that we should achieve all that was desirable, not exactly by trusting
to our prayer to heaven, but by relying almost exclusively on George the Third or George the
Fourth.  Now I have always thought that that was rather a poor patriotism.  Luckily for us,
our national conduct has not squared itself with our national anthem.  Any patriotism must
be poor which desires glory, or even profit, for a few at the expense of the many, even though
the few be brothers and the many aliens.  As a rule, patriotism is a virtue only because man's
aptitude for good is so finite that he cannot see and comprehend a wider humanity.  He can
hardly bring himself to understand that salvation should be extended to Jew and Gentile alike.
The word philanthropy has become odious, and I would fain not use it; but the thing itself
is as much higher than patriotism as heaven is above the earth.

A wish that British North America should ever be severed from England, or that the Australian
colonies should ever be so severed, will by many Englishmen be deemed unpatriotic.  But I think
that such severance is to be wished if it be the case that the colonies standing alone would
become more prosperous than they are under British rule.  We have before us an example in the
United States of the prosperity which has attended such a rupture of old ties.  I will not
now contest the point with those who say that the present moment of an American civil war is
ill chosen for vaunting that prosperity.  There stand the cities which the people have built,
and their power is attested by the world-wide importance of their present contest.  And if
the States have so risen since they left their parent's apron-string, why should not British
North America rise as high?  That the time has as yet come for such rising I do not think;
but that it will soon come I do most heartily hope.  The making of the railway of which I have
spoken, and the amalgamation of the provinces would greatly tend to such an event.  If therefore,
England desires to keep these colonies in a state of dependency; if it be more essential to
her to maintain her own power with regard to them than to increase their influence; if her
main object be to keep the colonies and not to improve the colonies, then I should say that
an amalgamation of the Canadas with Nova Scotia and New Brunswick should not be regarded with
favor by statesmen in Downing Street.  But if, as I would fain hope, and do partly believe,
such ideas of national power as these are now out of vogue with British statesmen, then I think
that such an amalgamation should receive all the support which Downing Street can give it.

The United States severed themselves from Great Britain with a great struggle, and after heart-burnings
and bloodshed.  Whether Great Britain will ever allow any colony of hers to depart from out
of her nest, to secede and start for herself, without any struggle or heart-burnings, with
all furtherance for such purpose which an old and powerful country can give to a new nationality
then first taking its own place in the world's arena, is a problem yet to be solved.  There
is, I think, no more beautiful sight than that of a mother, still in all the glory of womanhood,
preparing the wedding trousseau for her daughter.  The child hitherto has been obedient and
submissive.  She has been one of a household in which she has held no command.  She has sat
at table as a child, fitting herself in all things to the behests of others.  But the day of
her power and her glory, and also of her cares and solicitude, is at hand. She is to go forth,
and do as she best may in the world under that teaching which her old home has given her. 
The hour of separation has come; and the mother, smiling through her tears, sends her forth
decked with a bounteous hand, and furnished with full stores, so that all may be well with
her as she enters on her new duties. So is it that England should send forth her daughters.
They should not escape from her arms with shrill screams and bleeding wounds, with ill-omened
words which live so long, though the speakers of them lie cold in their graves.

But this sending forth of a child-nation to take its own political status in the world has
never yet been done by Great Britain.  I cannot remember that such has ever been done by any
great power with reference to its dependency; by any power that was powerful enough to keep
such dependency within its grasp.  But a man thinking on these matters cannot but hope that
a time will come when such amicable severance may be effected.  Great Britain cannot think
that through all coming ages she is to be the mistress of the vast continent of Australia,
lying on the other side of the globe's surface; that she is to be the mistress of all South
Africa, as civilization shall extend northward; that the enormous territories of British North
America are to be subject forever to a veto from Downing Street.  If the history of past empires
does not teach her that this may not be so, at least the history of the United States might
so teach her.  "But we have learned a lesson from those United States," the patriot will argue
who dares to hope that the glory and extent of the British empire may remain unimpaired in
saecula saeculorum.  "Since that day we have given political rights to our colonies, and have
satisfied the political longings of their inhabitants.  We do not tax their tea and stamps,
but leave it to them to tax themselves as they may please."  True.  But in political aspirations
the giving of an inch has ever created the desire for an ell.  If the Australian colonies even
now, with their scanty population and still young civilization, chafe against imperial interference,
will they submit to it when they feel within their veins all the full blood of political manhood?
What is the cry even of the Canadians--of the Canadians who are thoroughly loyal to England?
Send us a faineant governor, a King Log, who will not presume to interfere with us; a governor
who will spend his money and live like a gentleman, and care little or nothing for politics.
That is the Canadian beau ideal of a governor.  They are to govern themselves; and he who comes
to them from England is to sit among them as the silent representative of England's protection.
If that be true--and I do not think that any who know the Canadas will deny it--must it not
be presumed that they will soon also desire a faineant minister in Downing Street?  Of course
they will so desire.  Men do not become milder in their aspirations for political power the
more that political power is extended to them.  Nor would it be well that they should be so
humble in their desires.  Nations devoid of political power have never risen high in the world's
esteem.  Even when they have been commercially successful, commerce has not brought to them
the greatness which it has always given when joined with a strong political existence. The
Greeks are commercially rich and active; but "Greece" and "Greek" are bywords now for all that
is mean.  Cuba is a colony, and putting aside the cities of the States, the Havana is the richest
town on the other side of the Atlantic, and commercially the greatest; but the political villainy
of Cuba, her daily importation of slaves, her breaches of treaty, and the bribery of her all
but royal governor, are known to all men.  But Canada is not dishonest; Canada is no byword
for anything evil; Canada eats her own bread in the sweat of her brow, and fears a bad word
from no man.  True.  But why does New York, with its suburbs boast a million of inhabitants,
while Montreal has 85,000?  Why has that babe in years, Chicago, 120,000, while Toronto has
not half the number?  I do not say that Montreal and Toronto should have gone ahead abreast
with New York and Chicago.  In such races one must be first, and one last.  But I do say that
the Canadian towns will have no equal chance till they are actuated by that feeling of political
independence which has created the growth of the towns in the United States.

I do not think that the time has yet come in which Great Britain should desire the Canadians
to start for themselves.  There is the making of that railroad to be effected, and something
done toward the union of those provinces.  Canada could no more stand alone without New Brunswick
and Nova Scotia, than could those latter colonies without Canada.  But I think it would be
well to be prepared for such a coming day; and that it would at any rate be well to bring home
to ourselves and realize the idea of such secession on the part of our colonies, when the time
shall have come at which such secession may be carried out with profit and security to them.
Great Britain, should she ever send forth her child alone into the world, must of course guarantee
her security. Such guarantees are given by treaties; and, in the wording of them, it is presumed
that such treaties will last forever.  It will be argued that in starting British North America
as a political power on its own bottom, we should bind ourself to all the expense of its defense,
while we should give up all right to any interference in its concerns; and that, from a state
of things so unprofitable as this, there would be no prospect of a deliverance.  But such treaties,
let them be worded how they will, do not last forever. For a time, no doubt, Great Britain
would be so hampered--if indeed she would feel herself hampered by extending her name and prestige
to a country bound to her by ties such as those which would then exist between her and this
new nation.  Such treaties are not everlasting, nor can they be made to last even for ages.
Those who word them seem to think that powers and dynasties will never pass away.  But they
do pass away, and the balance of power will not keep itself fixed forever on the same pivot.
The time may come-- that it may not come soon we will all desire--but the time may come when
the name and prestige of what we call British North America will be as serviceable to Great
Britain as those of Great Britain are now serviceable to her colonies.

But what shall be the new form of government for the new kingdom? That is a speculation very
interesting to a politician, though one which to follow out at great length in these early
days would be rather premature.  That it should be a kingdom--that the political arrangement
should be one of which a crowned hereditary king should form part--nineteen out of every twenty
Englishmen would desire; and, as I fancy, so would also nineteen out of every twenty Canadians.
A king for the United States, when they first established themselves, was impossible.  A total
rupture from the Old World and all its habits was necessary for them.  The name of a king,
or monarch, or sovereign had become horrible to their ears. Even to this day they have not
learned the difference between arbitrary power retained in the hand of one man, such as that
now held by the Emperor over the French, and such hereditary headship in the State as that
which belongs to the Crown in Great Britain. And this was necessary, seeing that their division
from us was effected by strife, and carried out with war and bitter animosities.  In those
days also there was a remnant, though but a small remnant, of the power of tyranny left within
the scope of the British Crown.  That small remnant has been removed; and to me it seems that
no form of existing government, no form of government that ever did exist, gives or has given
so large a measure of individual freedom to all who live under it as a constitutional monarchy
in which the Crown is divested of direct political power.

I will venture then to suggest a king for this new nation; and, seeing that we are rich in
princes, there need be no difficulty in the selection.  Would it not be beautiful to see a
new nation established under such auspices, and to establish a people to whom their independence
had been given, to whom it had been freely surrendered as soon as they were capable of holding
the position assigned to them!

CHAPTER VII.

NIAGARA.

Of all the sights on this earth of ours which tourists travel to see--at least of all those
which I have seen--I am inclined to give the palm to the Falls of Niagara.  In the catalogue
of such sights I intend to include all buildings, pictures, statues, and wonders of art made
by men's hands, and also all beauties of nature prepared by the Creator for the delight of
his creatures.  This is a long word; but, as far as my taste and judgment go, it is justified.
I know no other one thing so beautiful, so glorious, and so powerful.  I would not by this
be understood as saying that a traveler wishing to do the best with his time should first of
all places seek Niagara.  In visiting Florence he may learn almost all that modern art can
teach.  At Rome he will be brought to understand the cold hearts, correct eyes, and cruel ambition
of the old Latin race.  In Switzerland he will surround himself with a flood of grandeur and
loveliness, and fill himself, if he be capable of such filling, with a flood of romance.  The
tropics will unfold to him all that vegetation in its greatest richness can produce.  In Paris
he will find the supreme of polish, the ne plus ultra of varnish according to the world's capability
of varnishing. And in London he will find the supreme of power, the ne plus ultra of work according
to the world's capability of working.  Any one of such journeys may be more valuable to a man--nay,
any one such journey must be more valuable to a man--than a visit to Niagara. At Niagara there
is that fall of waters alone.  But that fall is more graceful than Giotto's tower, more noble
than the Apollo.  The peaks of the Alps are not so astounding in their solitude.  The valleys
of the Blue Mountains in Jamaica are less green.  The finished glaze of life in Paris is less
invariable; and the full tide of trade round the Bank of England is not so inexorably powerful.

I came across an artist at Niagara who was attempting to draw the spray of the waters.  "You
have a difficult subject," said I.  "All subjects are difficult," he replied, "to a man who
desires to do well."  "But yours, I fear is impossible," I said.  "You have no right to say
so till I have finished my picture," he replied.  I acknowledged the justice of his rebuke,
regretted that I could not remain till the completion of his work should enable me to revoke
my words, and passed on.  Then I began to reflect whether I did not intend to try a task as
difficult in describing the falls, and whether I felt any of that proud self-confidence which
kept him happy at any rate while his task was in hand.  I will not say that it is as difficult
to describe aright that rush of waters as it is to paint it well.  But I doubt whether it is
not quite as difficult to write a description that shall interest the reader as it is to paint
a picture of them that shall be pleasant to the beholder.  My friend the artist was at any
rate not afraid to make the attempt, and I also will try my hand.

That the waters of Lake Erie have come down in their courses from the broad basins of Lake
Michigan, Lake Superior, and Lake Huron; that these waters fall into Lake Ontario by the short
and rapid river of Niagara; and that the falls of Niagara are made by a sudden break in the
level of this rapid river, is probably known to all who will read this book.  All the waters
of these huge northern inland seas run over that breach in the rocky bottom of the stream;
and thence it comes that the flow is unceasing in its grandeur, and that no eye can perceive
a difference in the weight, or sound, or violence of the fall whether it be visited in the
drought of autumn, amid the storms of winter, or after the melting of the upper worlds of ice
in the days of the early summer.  How many cataracts does the habitual tourist visit at which
the waters fail him!  But at Niagara the waters never fail.  There it thunders over its ledge
in a volume that never ceases and is never diminished--as it has done from times previous to
the life of man, and as it will do till tens of thousands of years shall see the rocky bed
of the river worn away back to the upper lake.

This stream divides Canada from the States--the western or farthermost bank belonging to the
British Crown, and the eastern or nearer bank being in the State of New York.  In visiting
Niagara, it always becomes a question on which side the visitor shall take up his quarters.
On the Canada side there is no town; but there is a large hotel beautifully placed immediately
opposite to the falls and this is generally thought to be the best locality for tourists. In
the State of New York is the town called Niagara Falls; and here there are two large hotels,
which, as to their immediate site, are not so well placed as that in Canada.  I first visited
Niagara some three years since.  I stayed then at the Clifton House, on the Canada side, and
have since sworn by that position.  But the Clifton House was closed for the season when I
was last there, and on that account we went to the Cataract House, in the town on the other
side.  I now think that I should set up my staff on the American side, if I went again.  My
advice on the subject to any party starting for Niagara would depend upon their habits or on
their nationality.  I would send Americans to the Canadian side, because they dislike walking;
but English people I would locate on the American side, seeing that they are generally accustomed
to the frequent use of their own legs.  The two sides are not very easily approached one from
the other.  Immediately below the falls there is a ferry, which may be traversed at the expense
of a shilling; but the labor of getting up and down from the ferry is considerable, and the
passage becomes wearisome.  There is also a bridge; but it is two miles down the river, making
a walk or drive of four miles necessary, and the toll for passing is four shillings, or a dollar,
in a carriage, and one shilling on foot. As the greater variety of prospect can be had on the
American side, as the island between the two falls is approachable from the American side and
not from the Canadian, and as it is in this island that visitors will best love to linger,
and learn to measure in their minds the vast triumph of waters before them, I recommend such
of my readers as can trust a little--it need be but a little-- to their own legs to select
their hotel at Niagara Falls town.

It has been said that it matters much from what point the falls are first seen, but to this
I demur.  It matters, I think, very little, or not at all.  Let the visitor first see it all,
and learn the whereabouts of every point, so as to understand his own position and that of
the waters; and then, having done that in the way of business, let him proceed to enjoyment.
I doubt whether it be not the best to do this with all sight-seeing.  I am quite sure that
it is the way in which acquaintance may be best and most pleasantly made with a new picture.

The falls, as I have said, are made by a sudden breach in the level of the river.  All cataracts
are, I presume, made by such breaches; but generally the waters do not fall precipitously as
they do at Niagara, and never elsewhere, as far as the world yet knows, has a breach so sudden
been made in a river carrying in its channel such or any approach to such a body of water.
Up above the falls for more than a mile the waters leap and burst over rapids, as though conscious
of the destiny that awaits them.  Here the river is very broad and comparatively shallow; but
from shore to shore it frets itself into little torrents, and begins to assume the majesty
of its power.  Looking at it even here, in the expanse which forms itself over the greater
fall, one feels sure that no strongest swimmer could have a chance of saving himself if fate
had cast him in even among those petty whirlpools.  The waters though so broken in their descent,
are deliciously green.  This color, as seen early in the morning or just as the sun has set,
is so bright as to give to the place one of its chiefest charms.

This will be best seen from the farther end of the island--Goat Island as it is called--which,
as the reader will understand, divides the river immediately above the falls.  Indeed, the
island is a part of that precipitously-broken ledge over which the river tumbles, and no doubt
in process of time will be worn away and covered with water.  The time, however, will be very
long.  In the mean while, it is perhaps a mile round, and is covered thickly with timber. 
At the upper end of the island the waters are divided, and, coming down in two courses each
over its own rapids, form two separate falls.  The bridge by which the island is entered is
a hundred yards or more above the smaller fall.  The waters here have been turned by the island,
and make their leap into the body of the river below at a right angle with it--about two hundred
yards below the greater fall.  Taken alone, this smaller cataract would, I imagine, be the
heaviest fall of water known; but taken in conjunction with the other, it is terribly shorn
of its majesty. The waters here are not green as they are at the larger cataract; and, though
the ledge has been hollowed and bowed by them so as to form a curve, that curve does not deepen
itself into a vast abyss as it does at the horseshoe up above.  This smaller fall is again
divided; and the visitor, passing down a flight of steps and over a frail wooden bridge, finds
himself on a smaller island in the midst of it.

But we will go at once on to the glory, and the thunder, and the majesty, and the wrath of
that upper hell of waters.  We are still, let the reader remember, on Goat Island--still in
the States--and on what is called the American side of the main body of the river. Advancing
beyond the path leading down to the lesser fall, we come to that point of the island at which
the waters of the main river begin to descend.  From hence across to the Canadian side the
cataract continues itself in one unabated line.  But the line is very far from being direct
or straight.  After stretching for some little way from the shore to a point in the river which
is reached by a wooden bridge at the end of which stands a tower upon the rock,--after stretching
to this, the line of the ledge bends inward against the flood--in, and in, and in--till one
is led to think that the depth of that horseshoe is immeasurable.  It has been cut with no
stinting hand.  A monstrous cantle has been worn back out of the center of the rock, so that
the fury of the waters converges; and the spectator, as he gazes into the hollow with wishful
eyes, fancies that he can hardly trace out the center of the abyss.

Go down to the end of that wooden bridge, seat yourself on the rail, and there sit till all
the outer world is lost to you.  There is no grander spot about Niagara than this.  The waters
are absolutely around you.  If you have that power of eye-contrio which is so necessary to
the full enjoyment of scenery, you will see nothing but the water.  You will certainly hear
nothing else; and the sound, I beg you to remember, is not an ear-cracking, agonizing crash
and clang of noises, but is melodious and soft withal, though loud as thunder.  It fills your
ears, and, as it were, envelops them, but at the same time you can speak to your neighbor without
an effort.  But at this place, and in these moments, the less of speaking, I should say, the
better.  There is no grander spot than this.  Here, seated on the rail of the bridge, you will
not see the whole depth of the fall.  In looking at the grandest works of nature, and of art
too, I fancy it is never well to see all.  There should be something left to the imagination,
and much should be half concealed in mystery.  The greatest charm of a mountain range is the
wild feeling that there must be strange, unknown, desolate worlds in those far-off valleys
beyond.  And so here, at Niagara, that converging rush of waters may fall down, down at once
into a hell of rivers, for what the eye can see.  It is glorious to watch them in their first
curve over the rocks.  They come green as a bank of emeralds, but with a fitful, flying color,
as though conscious that in one moment more they would be dashed into spray and rise into air,
pale as driven snow.  The vapor rises high into the air, and is gathered there, visible always
as a permanent white cloud over the cataract; but the bulk of the spray which fills the lower
hollow of that horseshoe is like a tumult of snow.  This you will not fully see from your seat
on the rail.  The head of it rises ever and anon out of that caldron below, but the caldron
itself will be invisible.  It is ever so far down--far as your own imagination can sink it.
But your eyes will rest full upon the curve of the waters.  The shape you will be looking at
is that of a horseshoe, but of a horseshoe miraculously deep from toe to heel; and this depth
becomes greater as you sit there.  That which at first was only great and beautiful becomes
gigantic and sublime, till the mind is at loss to find an epithet for its own use.  To realize
Niagara, you must sit there till you see nothing else than that which you have come to see.
You will hear nothing else, and think of nothing else.  At length you will be at one with the
tumbling river before you.  You will find yourself among the waters as though you belonged
to them.  The cool, liquid green will run through your veins, and the voice of the cataract
will be the expression of your own heart.  You will fall as the bright waters fall, rushing
down into your new world with no hesitation and with no dismay; and you will rise again as
the spray rises, bright, beautiful, and pure.  Then you will flow away in your course to the
uncompassed, distant, and eternal ocean.

When this state has been reached and has passed away, you may get off your rail and mount the
tower.  I do not quite approve of that tower, seeing that it has about it a gingerbread air,
and reminds one of those well-arranged scenes of romance in which one is told that on the left
you turn to the lady's bower, price sixpence; and on the right ascend to the knight's bed,
price sixpence more, with a view of the hermit's tomb thrown in.  But nevertheless the tower
is worth mounting, and no money is charged for the use of it.  It is not very high, and there
is a balcony at the top on which some half dozen persons may stand at ease.  Here the mystery
is lost, but the whole fall is seen.  It is not even at this spot brought so fully before your
eye, made to show itself in so complete and entire a shape, as it will do when you come to
stand near to it on the opposite or Canadian shore.  But I think that it shows itself more
beautifully.  And the form of the cataract is such that here, on Goat Island, on the American
side, no spray will reach you, although you are absolutely over the waters.  But on the Canadian
side, the road as it approaches the fall is wet and rotten with spray, and you, as you stand
close upon the edge, will be wet also. The rainbows as they are seen through the rising cloud--for
the sun's rays as seen through these waters show themselves in a bow, as they do when seen
through rain--are pretty enough, and are greatly loved.  For myself, I do not care for this
prettiness at Niagara.  It is there, but I forget it, and do not mind how soon it is forgotten.

But we are still on the tower; and here I must declare that though I forgive the tower, I cannot
forgive the horrid obelisk which has latterly been built opposite to it, on the Canadian side,
up above the fall; built apparently--for I did not go to it--with some camera-obscura intention
for which the projector deserves to be put in Coventry by all good Christian men and women.
At such a place as Niagara tasteless buildings, run up in wrong places with a view to money
making, are perhaps necessary evils.  It may be that they are not evils at all; that they give
more pleasure than pain, seeing that they tend to the enjoyment of the multitude.  But there
are edifices of this description which cry aloud to the gods by the force of their own ugliness
and malposition.  As to such, it may be said that there should somewhere exist a power capable
of crushing them in their birth.  This new obelisk, or picture-building at Niagara, is one of such.

And now we will cross the water, and with this object will return by the bridge out of Goat
Island, on the main land of the American side.  But as we do so, let me say that one of the
great charms of Niagara consists in this: that over and above that one great object of wonder
and beauty, there is so much little loveliness-- loveliness especially of water I mean.  There
are little rivulets running here and there over little falls, with pendent boughs above them,
and stones shining under their shallow depths.  As the visitor stands and looks through the
trees, the rapids glitter before him, and then hide themselves behind islands.  They glitter
and sparkle in far distances under the bright foliage, till the remembrance is lost, and one
knows not which way they run.  And then the river below, with its whirlpool,--but we shall
come to that by-and-by, and to the mad voyage which was made down the rapids by that mad captain
who ran the gantlet of the waters at the risk of his own life, with fifty to one against him,
in order that he might save another man's property from the sheriff.

The readiest way across to Canada is by the ferry; and on the American side this is very pleasantly
done.  You go into a little house, pay twenty cents, take a seat on a wooden car of wonderful
shape, and on the touch of a spring find yourself traveling down an inclined plane of terrible
declivity, and at a very fast rate.  You catch a glance of the river below you, and recognize
the fact that if the rope by which you are held should break, you would go down at a very fast
rate indeed, and find your final resting-place in the river.  As I have gone down some dozen
times, and have come to no such grief, I will not presume that you will be less lucky. Below
there is a boat generally ready.  If it be not there, the place is not chosen amiss for a rest
of ten minutes, for the lesser fall is close at hand, and the larger one is in full view. 
Looking at the rapidity of the river, you will think that the passage must be dangerous and
difficult.  But no accidents ever happen, and the lad who takes you over seems to do it with
sufficient ease.  The walk up the hill on the other side is another thing.  It is very steep,
and for those who have not good locomotive power of their own, will be found to be disagreeable.
In the full season, however, carriages are generally waiting there.  In so short a distance
I have always been ashamed to trust to other legs than my own, but I have observed that Americans
are always dragged up.  I have seen single young men of from eighteen to twenty-five, from
whose outward appearance no story of idle, luxurious life can be read, carried about alone
in carriages over distances which would be counted as nothing by any healthy English lady of
fifty.  None but the old invalids should require the assistance of carriages in seeing Niagara,
but the trade in carriages is to all appearance the most brisk trade there.

Having mounted the hill on the Canada side, you will walk on toward the falls.  As I have said
before, you will from this side look directly into the full circle of the upper cataract, while
you will have before you, at your left hand, the whole expanse of the lesser fall.  For those
who desire to see all at a glance, who wish to comprise the whole with their eyes, and to leave
nothing to be guessed, nothing to be surmised, this no doubt is the best point of view.

You will be covered with spray as you walk up to the ledge of rocks, but I do not think that
the spray will hurt you.  If a man gets wet through going to his daily work, cold, catarrh,
cough, and all their attendant evils, may be expected; but these maladies usually spare the
tourist.  Change of air, plenty of air, excellence of air, and increased exercise, make these
things powerless.  I should therefore bid you disregard the spray.  If, however, you are yourself
of a different opinion, you may hire a suit of oil-cloth clothes for, I believe, a quarter
of a dollar. They are nasty of course, and have this further disadvantage, that you become
much more wet having them on than you would be without them.

Here, on this side, you walk on to the very edge of the cataract, and, if your tread be steady
and your legs firm, you dip your foot into the water exactly at the spot where the thin outside
margin of the current reaches the rocky edge and jumps to join the mass of the fall.  The bed
of white foam beneath is certainly seen better here than elsewhere, and the green curve of
the water is as bright here as when seen from the wooden rail across.  But nevertheless I say
again that that wooden rail is the one point from whence Niagara may be best seen aright.

Close to the cataract, exactly at the spot from whence in former days the Table Rock used to
project from the land over the boiling caldron below, there is now a shaft, down which you
will descend to the level of the river, and pass between the rock and the torrent. This Table
Rock broke away from the cliff and fell, as up the whole course of the river the seceding rocks
have split and fallen from time to time through countless years, and will continue to do till
the bed of the upper lake is reached.  You will descend this shaft, taking to yourself or not
taking to yourself a suit of oil-clothes as you may think best.  I have gone with and without
the suit, and again recommend that they be left behind.  I am inclined to think that the ordinary
payment should be made for their use, as otherwise it will appear to those whose trade it is
to prepare them that you are injuring them in their vested rights.

Some three years since I visited Niagara on my way back to England from Bermuda, and in a volume
of travels which I then published I endeavored to explain the impression made upon me by this
passage between the rock and the waterfall.  An author should not quote himself; but as I feel
myself bound, in writing a chapter specially about Niagara, to give some account of this strange
position, I will venture to repeat my own words.

In the spot to which I allude the visitor stands on a broad, safe path, made of shingles, between
the rock over which the water rushes and the rushing water.  He will go in so far that the
spray, rising back from the bed of the torrent, does not incommode him. With this exception,
the farther he can go in the better; but circumstances will clearly show him the spot to which
he should advance.  Unless the water be driven in by a very strong wind, five yards make the
difference between a comparatively dry coat and an absolutely wet one.  And then let him stand
with his back to the entrance, thus hiding the last glimmer of the expiring day.  So standing,
he will look up among the falling waters, or down into the deep, misty pit, from which they
re-ascend in almost as palpable a bulk.  The rock will be at his right hand, high and hard,
and dark and straight, like the wall of some huge cavern, such as children enter in their dreams.
For the first five minutes he will be looking but at the waters of a cataract--at the waters,
indeed, of such a cataract as we know no other, and at their interior curves which elsewhere
we cannot see.  But by-and-by all this will change.  He will no longer be on a shingly path
beneath a waterfall; but that feeling of a cavern wall will grow upon him, of a cavern deep,
below roaring seas, in which the waves are there, though they do not enter in upon him; or
rather, not the waves, but the very bowels of the ocean.  He will feel as though the floods
surrounded him, coming and going with their wild sounds, and he will hardly recognize that
though among them he is not in them. And they, as they fall with a continual roar, not hurting
the ear, but musical withal, will seem to move as the vast ocean waters may perhaps move in
their internal currents.  He will lose the sense of one continued descent, and think that they
are passing round him in their appointed courses.  The broken spray that rises from the depths
below, rises so strongly, so palpably, so rapidly that the motion in every direction will seem
equal.  And, as he looks on, strange colors will show themselves through the mist; the shades
of gray will become green or blue, with ever and anon a flash of white; and then, when some
gust of wind blows in with greater violence, the sea-girt cavern will become all dark and black.
Oh, my friend, let there be no one there to speak to thee then; no, not even a brother.  As
you stand there speak only to the waters.

Two miles below the falls the river is crossed by a suspension bridge of marvelous construction.
It affords two thoroughfares, one above the other.  The lower road is for carriages and horses,
and the upper one bears a railway belonging to the Great Western Canada Line.  The view from
hence, both up and down the river, is very beautiful, for the bridge is built immediately over
the first of a series of rapids.  One mile below the bridge these rapids end in a broad basin
called the whirlpool, and, issuing out of this, the current turns to the right through a narrow
channel overhung by cliffs and trees, and then makes its way down to Lake Ontario with comparative
tranquillity.

But I will beg you to take notice of those rapids from the bridge, and to ask yourself what
chance of life would remain to any ship, craft, or boat required by destiny to undergo navigation
beneath the bridge and down into that whirlpool.  Heretofore all men would have said that no
chance of life could remain to so ill-starred a bark.  The navigation, however, has been effected.
But men used to the river still say that the chances would be fifty to one against any vessel
which should attempt to repeat the experiment.

The story of that wondrous voyage was as follows:  A small steamer, called the Maid of the
Mist, was built upon the river, between the falls and the rapids, and was used for taking adventurous
tourists up amid the spray as near to the cataract as was possible.  "The Maid of the Mist"
plied in this way for a year or two, and was, I believe, much patronized during the season.
But in the early part of last summer an evil time had come.  Either the Maid got into debt,
or her owner had embarked in other and less profitable speculations.  At any rate, he became
subject to the law, and tidings reached him that the sheriff would seize the Maid.  On most
occasions the sheriff is bound to keep such intentions secret, seeing that property is movable,
and that an insolvent debtor will not always await the officers of justice.  But with the poor
Maid there was no need of such secrecy.  There was but a mile or so of water on which she could
ply, and she was forbidden by the nature of her properties to make any way upon land, The sheriff's
prey, therefore, was easy, and the poor Maid was doomed.

In any country in the world but America such would have been the case; but an American would
steam down Phlegethon to save his property from the sheriff--he would steam down Phlegethon,
or get some one else to do it for him.  Whether or no, in this case, the captain of the boat
was the proprietor, or whether, as I was told, he was paid for the job, I do not know.  But
he determined to run the rapids, and he procured two others to accompany him in the risk. 
He got up his steam, and took the Maid up amid the spray according to his custom.  Then, suddenly
turning on his course, he, with one of his companions, fixed himself at the wheel, while the
other remained at his engine.  I wish I could look into the mind of that man, and understand
what his thoughts were at that moment-- what were his thoughts and what his beliefs.  As to
one of the men, I was told that he was carried down not knowing what he was about to do but
I am inclined to believe that all the three were joined together in the attempt.

I was told by a man who saw the boat pass under the bridge that she made one long leap down,
as she came thither; that her funnel was at once knocked flat on the deck by the force of the
blow; that the waters covered her from stem to stern; and that then she rose again, and skimmed
into the whirlpool a mile below.  When there she rode with comparative ease upon the waters,
and took the sharp turn round into the river below without a struggle.  The feat was done,
and the Maid was rescued from the sheriff.  It is said that she was sold below at the mouth
of the river, and carried from thence over Lake Ontario, and down the St. Lawrence to Quebec.

CHAPTER VIII.

NORTH AND WEST.

From Niagara we determined to proceed Northwest--as far to the Northwest as we could go with
any reasonable hope of finding American citizens in a state of political civilization, and
perhaps guided also in some measure by our hopes as to hotel accommodation. Looking to these
two matters, we resolved to get across to the Mississippi, and to go up that river as far as
the town of St. Paul and the Falls of St. Anthony, which are some twelve miles above the town;
then to descend the river as far as the States of Iowa on the west and Illinois on the east;
and to return eastward through Chicago and the large cities on the southern shores of Lake
Erie, from whence we would go across to Albany, the capital of New York state, and down the
Hudson to New York, the capital of the Western World.  For such a journey, in which scenery
was one great object, we were rather late, as we did not leave Niagara till the 10th of October;
but though the winters are extremely cold through all this portion of the American continent--fifteen,
twenty, and even twenty-five degrees below zero being an ordinary state of the atmosphere in
latitudes equal to those of Florence, Nice, and Turin--nevertheless the autumns are mild, the
noonday being always warm, and the colors of the foliage are then in all their glory.  I was
also very anxious to ascertain, if it might be in my power to do so, with what spirit or true
feeling as to the matter the work of recruiting for the now enormous army of the States was
going on in those remote regions.  That men should be on fire in Boston and New York, in Philadelphia
and along the borders of secession, I could understand.  I could understand also that they
should be on fire throughout the cotton, sugar, and rice plantations of the South.  But I could
hardly understand that this political fervor should have communicated itself to the far-off
farmers who had thinly spread themselves over the enormous wheat-growing districts of the Northwest.
St. Paul, the capital of Minnesota, is nine hundred miles directly north of St. Louis, the
most northern point to which slavery extends in the Western States of the Union; and the farming
lands of Minnesota stretch away again for some hundreds of miles north and west of St. Paul.
Could it be that those scanty and far-off pioneers of agriculture--those frontier farmers,
who are nearly one-half German and nearly the other half Irish, would desert their clearings
and ruin their chances of progress in the world for distant wars of which the causes must,
as I thought, be to them unintelligible?  I had been told that distance had but lent enchantment
to the view, and that the war was even more popular in the remote and newly-settled States
than in those which have been longer known as great political bodies.  So I resolved that I
would go and see.

It may be as well to explain here that that great political Union hitherto called the United
States of America may be more properly divided into three than into two distinct interests,
In England we have long heard of North and South as pitted against each other, and we have
always understood that the Southern politicians, or Democrats, have prevailed over the Northern
politicians, or Republicans, because they were assisted in their views by Northern men of mark
who have held Southern principles--that is, by Northern men who have been willing to obtain
political power by joining themselves to the Southern party.  That, as far as I can understand,
has been the general idea in England, and in a broad way it has been true, But as years have
advanced, and as the States have extended themselves westward, a third large party has been
formed, which sometimes rejoices to call itself The Great West; and though, at the present
time, the West and the North are joined together against the South, the interests of the North
and West are not, I think, more closely interwoven than are those of the West and South; and
when the final settlement of this question shall be made, there will doubtless be great difficulty
in satisfying the different aspirations and feelings of two great free-soil populations.  The
North, I think, will ultimately perceive that it will gain much by the secession of the South;
but it will be very difficult to make the West believe that secession will suit its views.

I will attempt, in a rough way, to divide the States, as they seem to divide themselves, into
these three parties.  As to the majority of them, there is no difficulty in locating them;
but this cannot be done with absolute certainty as to some few that lie on the borders.

New England consists of six States, of which all of course belong to the North. But even in
them there was till quite of late a strong section so opposed to the Republican party as to
give a material aid to the South.  This, I think, was particularly so in New Hampshire, from
whence President Pierce came.  He had been one of the Senators from New Hampshire; and yet
to him, as President, is affixed the disgrace--whether truly affixed or not I do not say--of
having first used his power in secretly organizing those arrangements which led to secession
and assisted at its birth.  In Massachusetts itself, also, there was a strong Democratic party,
of which Massachusetts now seems to be somewhat ashamed.  Then, to make up the North, must
be added the two great States of New York and Pennsylvania and the small State of New Jersey.
The West will not agree even to this absolutely, seeing that they claim all territory west
of the Alleghanies, and that a portion of Pennsylvania and some part also of New York lie westward
of that range; but, in endeavoring to make these divisions ordinarily intelligible, I may say
that the North consists of the nine States above named.  But the North will also claim Maryland
and Delaware, and the eastern half of Virginia.  The North will claim them, though they are
attached to the South by joint participation in the great social institution of slavery--for
Maryland, Delaware, and Virginia are slave States--and I think that the North will ultimately
make good its claim.  Maryland and Delaware lie, as it were, behind the capital, and Eastern
Virginia is close upon the capital.  And these regions are not tropical in their climate or
influences.  They are and have been slave States, but will probably rid themselves of that
taint, and become a portion of the free North.

The Southern or slave States, properly so called, are easily defined.  The South will also
claim Tennessee, Kentucky, Missouri, Virginia, Delaware, and Maryland, and will endeavor to
prove its right to the claim by the fact of the social institution being the law of the land
in those States.  Of Delaware, Maryland, and Eastern Virginia, I have already spoken.  Western
Virginia is, I think, so little tainted with slavery that, as she stands even at present, she
properly belongs to the West.  As I now write, the struggle is going on in Kentucky and Missouri.
In Missouri the slave population is barely more than a tenth of the whole, while in South Carolina
and Mississippi it is more than half.  And, therefore, I venture to count Missouri among the
Western States, although slavery is still the law of the land within its borders.  It is surrounded
on three sides by free States of the West, and its soil, let us hope, must become free.  Kentucky
I must leave as doubtful, though I am inclined to believe that slavery will be abolished there
also.  Kentucky, at any rate, will never throw in its lot with the Southern States.  As to
Tennessee, it seceded heart and soul, and I fear that it must be accounted as Southern, although
the Northern army has now, in May, 1862, possessed itself of the greater part of the State.

To the great West remains an enormous territory, of which, however, the population is as yet
but scanty; though perhaps no portion of the world has increased so fast in population as have
these Western States.  The list is as follows: Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas to which I would add Missouri, and probably the Western half of Virginia.
We have then to account for the two already admitted States on the Pacific, California and
Oregon, and also for the unadmitted Territories, Dacotah, Nebraska, Washington, Utah, New Mexico,
Colorado, and Nevada.  I should be refining too much for my present very general purpose, if
I were to attempt to marshal these huge but thinly-populated regions in either rank.  Of California
and Oregon it may probably be said that it is their ambition to form themselves into a separate
division--a division which may be called the farther West.

I know that all statistical statements are tedious, and I believe that but few readers believe
them.  I will, however, venture to give the populations of these States in the order I have
named them, seeing that power in America depends almost entirely on population.  The census
of 1860 gave the following results:--

In the North:

Maine               619,000
New Hampshire       326,872
Vermont             325,827
Massachusetts     1,231,494
Rhode Island        174,621
Connecticut         460,670
New York          3,851,563
Pennsylvania      2,916,018
New Jersey          676,034
                 ----------
Total            10,582,099

In the South, the population of which must be divided into free and slave:

                      Free.      Slave.      Total.

Texas               415,999     184,956     600,955
Louisiana           354,245     312,186     666,431
Arkansas            331,710     109,065     440,775
Mississippi         407,051     479,607     886,658
Alabama             520,444     435,473     955,917
Florida              81,885      63,809     145,694
Georgia             615,366     467,461   1,082,827
South Carolina      308,186     407,185     715,371
North Carolina      679,965     328,377   1,008,342
Tennessee           859,578     287,112   1,146,690
                  ---------   ---------   ---------
Total             4,574,429   3,075,231   7,649,660

in the doubtful States:

                      Free.      Slave.      Total.

Maryland            646,183      85,382     731,565
Delaware            110,548       1,805     112,353
Virginia          1,097,373     495,826   1,593,199
Kentucky            920,077     225,490   1,145,567
                  ---------     -------   ---------
Total             2,774,181     808,503   3,582,684

In the West:

Ohio              2,377,917
Indiana           1,350,802
Illinois          1,691,238
Michigan            754,291
Wisconsin           763,485
Minnesota           172,796
Iowa                682,002
Kansas              143,645
Missouri          1,204,214*
                  ---------
Total             9,140,390

* Of which number, in Missouri, 115,619 are slaves.

To these must be added, to make up the population of the United States as it stood in 1860,--

The separate District of Columbia, in which is
  included Washington, the seat of the Federal
  Government         75,321
California          384,770
Oregon               52,566
The Territories of--
  Dacotah             4,839
  Nebraska           28,892
  Washington         11,624
  Utah               49,000
  New Mexico         98,024
  Colorado           34,197
  Nevada              6,857
                    -------
Total               741,090

And thus the total population may be given as follows:--

North                             10,582,099
South                              7,649,660
Doubtful                           3,582,684
West                               9,140,390
Outlying States and Territories      741,090
                                  ----------
Total                             31,695,923

Each of the three interests would consider itself wronged by the division above made, but the
South would probably be the loudest in asserting its grievance.  The South claims all the slave
States, and would point to secession in Virginia to justify such claim, and would point also
to Maryland and Baltimore, declaring that secession would be as strong there as at New Orleans,
if secession were practicable.  Maryland and Baltimore lie behind Washington, and are under
the heels of the Northern troops, so that secession is not practicable; but the South would
say that they have seceded in heart.  In this the South would have some show of reason for
its assertion; but nevertheless I shall best convey a true idea of the position of these States
by classing them as doubtful.  When secession shall have been accomplished--if ever it be accomplished--
it will hardly be possible that they should adhere to the South.

It will be seen by the foregoing tables that the population of the West is nearly equal to
that of the North, and that therefore Western power is almost as great as Northern.  It is
almost as great already, and as population in the West increases faster than it does in the
North, the two will soon be equalized.  They are already sufficiently on a par to enable them
to fight on equal terms, and they will be prepared for fighting--political fighting, if no
other--as soon as they have established their supremacy over a common enemy.

While I am on the subject of population I should explain--though the point is not one which
concerns the present argument--that the numbers given, as they regard the South, include both
the whites and the blacks, the free men and the slaves.  The political power of the South is
of course in the hands of the white race only, and the total white population should therefore
be taken as the number indicating the Southern power.  The political power of the South, however,
as contrasted with that of the North, has, since the commencement of the Union, been much increased
by the slave population.  The slaves have been taken into account in determining the number
of representatives which should be sent to Congress by each State.  That number depends on
the population but it was decided in 1787 that in counting up the number of representatives
to which each State should be held to be entitled, five slaves should represent three white
men.  A Southern population, therefore, of five thousand free men and five thousand slaves
would claim as many representatives as a Northern population of eight thousand free men, although
the voting would be confined to the free population.  This has ever since been the law of the
United States.

The Western power is nearly equal to that of the North, and this fact, somewhat exaggerated
in terms, is a frequent boast in the mouths of Western men.  "We ran Fremont for President,"
they say, "and had it not been for Northern men with Southern principles, we should have put
him in the White House instead of the traitor Buchanan.  If that had been done there would
have been no secession."  How things might have gone had Fremont been elected in lieu of Buchanan,
I will not pretend to say; but the nature of the argument shows the difference that exists
between Northern and Western feeling.  At the time that I was in the West, General Fremont
was the great topic of public interest.  Every newspaper was discussing his conduct, his ability
as a soldier, his energy, and his fate.  At that time General McClellan was in command at Washington
on the Potomac, it being understood that he held his power directly under the President, free
from the exercise of control on the part of the veteran General Scott, though at that time
General Scott had not actually resigned his position as head of the army.  And General Fremont,
who some five years before had been "run" for President by the Western States, held another
command of nearly equal independence in Missouri.  He had been put over General Lyon in the
Western command, and directly after this General Lyon had fallen in battle at Springfield,
in the first action in which the opposing armies were engaged in the West. General Fremont
at once proceeded to carry matters with a very high hand, On the 30th of August, 1861, he issued
a proclamation by which he declared martial law at St. Louis, the city at which he held his
headquarters, and indeed throughout the State of Missouri generally.  In this proclamation
he declared his intention of exercising a severity beyond that ever threatened, as I believe,
in modern warfare.  He then goes on to say that he will confiscate all the property of persons
in the State who shall have taken up arms against the Union, or shall have taken part with
the enemies of the Union, and that he will make free all slaves belonging to such persons.
This proclamation was not approved at Washington, and was modified by the order of the President.
It was understood also that he issued orders for military expenditure which were not recognized
at Washington, and men began to understand that the army in the West was gradually assuming
that irresponsible military position which, in disturbed countries and in times of civil war,
has so frequently resulted in a military dictatorship.  Then there arose a clamor for the removal
of General Fremont.  A semi-official account of his proceedings, which had reached Washington
from an officer under his command, was made public, and also the correspondence which took
place on the subject between the President and General Fremont's wife.  The officer in question
was thereupon placed under arrest, but immediately released by orders from Washington.  He
then made official complaint of his general, sending forward a list of charges, in which Fremont
was accused of rashness, incompetency, want of fidelity of the interests of the government,
and disobedience to orders from headquarters.  After awhile the Secretary of War himself proceeded
from Washington to the quarters of General Fremont at St. Louis, and remained there for a day
or two making, or pretending to make, inquiry into the matter.  But when he returned he left
the General still in command.  During the whole month of October the papers were occupied in
declaring in the morning that General Fremont had been recalled from his command, and in the
evening that he was to remain.  In the mean time they who befriended his cause, and this included
the whole West, were hoping from day to day that he would settle the matter for himself and
silence his accusers, by some great military success.  General Price held the command opposed
to him, and men said that Fremont would sweep General Price and his army down the valley of
the Mississippi into the sea.  But General Price would not be so swept, and it began to appear
that a guerrilla warfare would prevail; that General Price, if driven southward, would reappear
behind the backs of his pursuers, and that General Fremont would not accomplish all that was
expected of him with that rapidity for which his friends had given him credit.  So the newspapers
still went on waging the war, and every morning General Fremont was recalled, and every evening
they who had recalled him were shown up as having known nothing of the matter.

"Never mind; he is a pioneer man, and will do a'most anything he puts his hand to," his friends
in the West still said.  "He understands the frontier."  Understanding the frontier is a great
thing in Western America, across which the vanguard of civilization continues to march on in
advance from year to year.  "And it's he that is bound to sweep slavery from off the face of
this continent. He's the man, and he's about the only man."  I am not qualified to write the
life of General Fremont, and can at present only make this slight reference to the details
of his romantic career.  That it has been full of romance, and that the man himself is endued
with a singular energy, and a high, romantic idea of what may be done by power and will, there
is no doubt.  Five times he has crossed the Continent of North America from Missouri to Oregon
and California, enduring great hardships in the service of advancing civilization and knowledge.
That he has considerable talent, immense energy, and strong self-confidence, I believe.  He
is a frontier man--one of those who care nothing for danger, and who would dare anything with
the hope of accomplishing a great career. But I have never heard that he has shown any practical
knowledge of high military matters.  It may be doubted whether a man of this stamp is well
fitted to hold the command of a nation's army for great national purposes.  May it not even
be presumed that a man of this class is of all men the least fitted for such a work?  The officer
required should be a man with two specialties--a specialty for military tactics and a specialty
for national duty.  The army in the West was far removed from headquarters in Washington, and
it was peculiarly desirable that the general commanding it should be one possessing a strong
idea of obedience to the control of his own government.  Those frontier capabilities--that
self-dependent energy for which his friends gave Fremont, and probably justly gave him, such
unlimited credit--are exactly the qualities which are most dangerous in such a position.

I have endeavored to explain the circumstances of the Western command in Missouri as they existed
at the time when I was in the Northwestern States, in order that the double action of the North
and West may be understood.  I, of course, was not in the secret of any official persons; but
I could not but feel sure that the government in Washington would have been glad to have removed
Fremont at once from the command, had they not feared that by so doing they would have created
a schism, as it were, in their own camp, and have done much to break up the integrity or oneness
of Northern loyalty.  The Western people almost to a man desired abolition.  The States there
were sending out their tens of thousands of young men into the army with a prodigality as to
their only source of wealth which they hardly recognized themselves, because this to them was
a fight against slavery.  The Western population has been increased to a wonderful degree by
a German infusion--so much so that the Western towns appear to have been peopled with Germans.
I found regiments of volunteers consisting wholly of Germans.  And the Germans are all abolitionists.
To all the men of the West the name of Fremont is dear.  He is their hero and their Hercules.
He is to cleanse the stables of the Southern king, and turn the waters of emancipation through
the foul stalls of slavery.  And therefore, though the Cabinet in Washington would have been
glad for many reasons to have removed Fremont in October last, it was at first scared from
committing itself to so strong a measure.  At last, however, the charges made against him were
too fully substantiated to allow of their being set on one side; and early in November, 1861,
he was superseded.  I shall be obliged to allude again to General Fremont's career as I go
on with my narrative.

At this time the North was looking for a victory on the Potomac; but they were no longer looking
for it with that impatience which in the summer had led to the disgrace at Bull's Run.  They
had recognized the fact that their troops must be equipped, drilled, and instructed; and they
had also recognized the perhaps greater fact that their enemies were neither weak, cowardly,
nor badly officered.  I have always thought that the tone and manner with which the North bore
the defeat at Bull's Run was creditable to it. It was never denied, never explained away, never
set down as trifling.  "We have been whipped," was what all Northerners said; "we've got an
almighty whipping, and here we are."  I have heard many Englishmen complain of this--saying
that the matter was taken almost as a joke, that no disgrace was felt, and that the licking
was owned by a people who ought never to have allowed that they had been licked.  To all this,
however, I demur.  Their only chance of speedy success consisted in their seeing and recognizing
the truth. Had they confessed the whipping, and then sat down with their hands in their pockets--had
they done as second-rate boys at school will do, declare that they had been licked, and then
feel that all the trouble is over--they would indeed have been open to reproach.  The old mother
across the water would in such case have disowned her son.  But they did the very reverse of
this.  "I have been whipped," Jonathan said, and he immediately went into training under a
new system for another fight.

And so all through September and October the great armies on the Potomac rested comparatively
in quiet--the Northern forces drawing to themselves immense levies.  The general confidence
in McClellan was then very great; and the cautious measures by which he endeavored to bring
his vast untrained body of men under discipline were such as did at that time recommend themselves
to most military critics.  Early in September the Northern party obtained a considerable advantage
by taking the fort at Cape Hatteras, in North Carolina, situated on one of those long banks
which lie along the shores of the Southern States; but, toward the end of October, they experienced
a considerable reverse in an attack which was made on the secessionists by General Stone, and
in which Colonel Baker was killed.  Colonel Baker had been Senator for Oregon, and was well
known as an orator.  Taking all things together, however, nothing material had been done up
to the end of October; and at that time Northern men were waiting--not perhaps impatiently,
considering the great hopes and perhaps great fears which filled their hearts, but with eager
expectation--for some event of which they might talk with pride.

The man to whom they had trusted all their hopes was young for so great a command.  I think
that, at this time, (October, 1861,) General McClellan was not yet thirty-five.  He had served,
early in life, in the Mexican war, having come originally from Pennsylvania, and having been
educated at the military college at West Point. During our war with Russia he was sent to the
Crimea by his own government, in conjunction with two other officers of the United States army,
that they might learn all that was to be learned there as to military tactics, and report especially
as to the manner in which fortifications were made and attacked.  I have been informed that
a very able report was sent in by them to the government on their return, and that this was
drawn up by McClellan.  But in America a man is not only a soldier, or always a soldier, nor
is he always a clergyman if once a clergyman: he takes a spell at anything suitable that may
be going.  And in this way McClellan was, for some years, engaged on the Central Illinois Railway,
and was for a considerable time the head manager of that concern.  We all know with what suddenness
he rose to the highest command in the army immediately after the defeat at Bull's Run.

I have endeavored to describe what were the feelings of the West in the autumn of 1861 with
regard to the war.  The excitement and eagerness there were very great, and they were perhaps
as great in the North.  But in the North the matter seemed to me to be regarded from a different
point of view.  As a rule, the men of the North are not abolitionists.  It is quite certain
that they were not so before secession began.  They hate slavery as we in England hate it;
but they are aware, as also are we, that the disposition of four million of black men and women
forms a question which cannot be solved by the chivalry of any modern Orlando.  The property
invested in these four million slaves forms the entire wealth of the South.  If they could
be wafted by a philanthropic breeze back to the shores of Africa--a breeze of which the philanthropy
would certainly not be appreciated by those so wafted--the South would be a wilderness.  The
subject is one as full of difficulty as any with which the politicians of these days are tormented.
The Northerners fully appreciate this, and, as a rule, are not abolitionists in the Western
sense of the word.  To them the war is recommended by precisely those feelings which animated
us when we fought for our colonies--when we strove to put down American independence. Secession
is rebellion against the government, and is all the more bitter to the North because that rebellion
broke out at the first moment of Northern ascendency.  "We submitted," the North says, "to
Southern Presidents, and Southern statesmen, and Southern councils, because we obeyed the vote
of the people.  But as to you--the voice of the people is nothing in your estimation!  At the
first moment in which the popular vote places at Washington a President with Northern feelings,
you rebel.  We submitted in your days; and, by Heaven! you shall submit in ours.  We submitted
loyally, through love of the law and the Constitution.  You have disregarded the law and thrown
over the Constitution.  But you shall be made to submit, as a child is made to submit to its
governor."

It must also be remembered that on commercial questions the North and the West are divided.
The Morrill tariff is as odious to the West as it is to the South.  The South and West are
both agricultural productive regions, desirous of sending cotton and corn to foreign countries,
and of receiving back foreign manufactures on the best terms.  But the North is a manufacturing
country--a poor manufacturing country as regards excellence of manufacture--and therefore the
more anxious to foster its own growth by protective laws.  The Morrill tariff is very injurious
to the West, and is odious there.  I might add that its folly has already been so far recognized
even in the North as to make it very generally odious there also.

So much I have said endeavoring to make it understood how far the North and West were united
in feeling against the South in the autumn of 1861, and how far there existed between them
a diversity of interests.

CHAPTER IX.

FROM NIAGARA TO THE MISSISSIPPI.

From Niagara we went by the Canada Great Western Railway to Detroit, the big city of Michigan.
It is an American institution that the States should have a commercial capital--or what I call
their big city--as well as a political capital, which may, as a rule, be called the State's
central city.  The object in choosing the political capital is average nearness of approach
from the various confines of the State but commerce submits to no such Procrustean laws in
selecting her capitals and consequently she has placed Detroit on the borders of Michigan,
on the shore of the neck of water which joins Lake Huron to Lake Erie, through which all the
trade must flow which comes down from Lakes Michigan, Superior, and Huron on its way to the
Eastern States and to Europe.  We had thought of going from Buffalo across Lake Erie to Detroit;
but we found that the better class of steamers had been taken off the waters for the winter.
And we also found that navigation among these lakes is a mistake whenever the necessary journey
can be taken by railway.  Their waters are by no means smooth, and then there is nothing to
be seen.  I do not know whether others may have a feeling, almost instinctive, that lake navigation
must be pleasant--that lakes must of necessity be beautiful.  I have such a feeling, but not
now so strongly as formerly.  Such an idea should be kept for use in Europe, and never brought
over to America with other traveling gear.  The lakes in America are cold, cumbrous, uncouth,
and uninteresting--intended by nature for the conveyance of cereal produce, but not for the
comfort of traveling men and women.  So we gave up our plan of traversing the lake, and, passing
back into Canada by the suspension bridge at Niagara, we reached the Detroit River at Windsor
by the Great Western line, and passed thence by the ferry into the City of Detroit.

In making this journey at night we introduced ourselves to the thoroughly American institution
of sleeping-cars--that is, of cars in which beds are made up for travelers.  The traveler may
have a whole bed, or half a bed, or no bed at all, as he pleases, paying a dollar or half a
dollar extra should he choose the partial or full fruition of a couch.  I confess I have always
taken a delight in seeing these beds made up, and consider that the operations of the change
are generally as well executed as the manoeuvres of any pantomime at Drury Lane.  The work
is usually done by negroes or colored men, and the domestic negroes of America are always light-
handed and adroit.  The nature of an American car is no doubt known to all men.  It looks as
far removed from all bed-room accommodation as the baker's barrow does from the steam engine
into which it is to be converted by Harlequin's wand.  But the negro goes to work much more
quietly than the Harlequin; and for every four seats in the railway car he builds up four beds
almost as quickly as the hero of the pantomime goes through his performance. The great glory
of the Americans is in their wondrous contrivances-- in their patent remedies for the usually
troublous operations of life.  In their huge hotels all the bell ropes of each house ring on
one bell only; but a patent indicator discloses a number, and the whereabouts of the ringer
is shown.  One fire heats every room, passage, hall, and cupboard, and does it so effectually
that the inhabitants are all but stifled.  Soda-water bottles open themselves without any trouble
of wire or strings.  Men and women go up and down stairs without motive power of their own.
Hot and cold water are laid on to all the chambers; though it sometimes happens that the water
from both taps is boiling, and that, when once turned on, it cannot be turned off again by
any human energy. Everything is done by a new and wonderful patent contrivance; and of all
their wonderful contrivances, that of their railroad beds is by no means the least.  For every
four seats the negro builds up four beds--that is, four half beds, or accommodation for four
persons.  Two are supposed to be below, on the level of the ordinary four seats, and two up
above on shelves which are let down from the roof.  Mattresses slip out from one nook and pillows
from another.  Blankets are added, and the bed is ready.  Any over- particular individual--an
islander, for instance, who hugs his chains--will generally prefer to pay the dollar for the
double accommodation.  Looking at the bed in the light of a bed--taking, as it were, an abstract
view of it--or comparing it with some other bed or beds with which the occupant may have acquaintance,
I cannot say that it is in all respects perfect.  But distances are long in America; and he
who declines to travel by night will lose very much time.  He who does so travel will find
the railway bed a great relief.  I must confess that the feeling of dirt, on the following
morning, is rather oppressive.

From Windsor, on the Canada side, we passed over to Detroit, in the State of Michigan, by a
steam ferry.  But ferries in England and ferries in America are very different.  Here, on this
Detroit ferry, some hundred of passengers, who were going forward from the other side without
delay, at once sat down to breakfast.  I may as well explain the way in which disposition is
made of one's luggage as one takes these long journeys.  The traveler, when he starts, has
his baggage checked.  He abandons his trunk--generally a box, studded with nails, as long as
a coffin and as high as a linen chest--and, in return for this, he receives an iron ticket
with a number on it.  As he approaches the end of his first installment of travel and while
the engine is still working its hardest, a man comes up to him, bearing with him, suspended
on a circular bar, an infinite variety of other checks.  The traveler confides to this man
his wishes, and, if he be going farther without delay, surrenders his check and receives a
counter-check in return.  Then, while the train is still in motion, the new destiny of the
trunk is imparted to it.  But another man, with another set of checks, also comes the way,
walking leisurely through the train as he performs his work.  This is the minister of the hotel-omnibus
institution. His business is with those who do not travel beyond the next terminus.  To him,
if such be your intention, you make your confidence, giving up your tallies, and taking other
tallies by way of receipt; and your luggage is afterward found by you in the hall of your hotel.
There is undoubtedly very much of comfort in this; and the mind of the traveler is lost in
amazement as he thinks of the futile efforts with which he would struggle to regain his luggage
were there no such arrangement.  Enormous piles of boxes are disclosed on the platform at all
the larger stations, the numbers of which are roared forth with quick voice by some two or
three railway denizens at once.  A modest English voyager, with six or seven small packages,
would stand no chance of getting anything if he were left to his own devices.  As it is, I
am bound to say that the thing is well done.  I have had my desk with all my money in it lost
for a day, and my black leather bag was on one occasion sent back over the line.  They, however,
were recovered; and, on the whole, I feel grateful to the check system of the American railways.
And then, too, one never hears of extra luggage.  Of weight they are quite regardless.  On
two or three occasions an overwrought official has muttered between his teeth that ten packages
were a great many, and that some of those "light fixings" might have been made up into one.
And when I came to understand that the number of every check was entered in a book, and re-
entered at every change, I did whisper to my wife that she ought to do without a bonnet box.
The ten, however, went on, and were always duly protected.  I must add, however, that articles
requiring tender treatment will sometimes reappear a little the worse from the hardships of
their journey.

I have not much to say of Detroit--not much, that is, beyond what I have to say of all the
North.  It is a large, well-built, half- finished city lying on a convenient waterway, and
spreading itself out with promises of a wide and still wider prosperity.  It has about it perhaps
as little of intrinsic interest as any of those large Western towns which I visited.  It is
not so pleasant as Milwaukee, nor so picturesque as St. Paul, nor so grand as Chicago, nor
so civilized as Cleveland, nor so busy as Buffalo.  Indeed, Detroit is neither pleasant nor
picturesque at all.  I will not say that it is uncivilized; but it has a harsh, crude, unprepossessing
appearance.  It has some 70,000 inhabitants, and good accommodation for shipping.  It was doing
an enormous business before the war began, and, when these troublous times are over, will no
doubt again go ahead.  I do not, however, think it well to recommend any Englishman to make
a special visit to Detroit who may be wholly uncommercial in his views, and travel in search
of that which is either beautiful or interesting.

From Detroit we continued our course westward across the State of Michigan, through a country
that was absolutely wild till the railway pierced it, Very much of it is still absolutely wild.
For miles upon miles the road passes the untouched forest, showing that even in Michigan the
great work of civilization has hardly more than been commenced.  One thinks of the all but
countless population which is, before long, to be fed from these regions--of the cities which
will grow here, and of the amount of government which in due time will be required--one can
hardly fail to feel that the division of the United States into separate nationalities is merely
a part of the ordained work of creation as arranged for the well-being of mankind.  The States
already boast of thirty millions of inhabitants--not of unnoticed and unnoticeable beings requiring
little, knowing little, and doing little, such as are the Eastern hordes, which may be counted
by tens of millions, but of men and women who talk loudly and are ambitious, who eat beef,
who read and write, and understand the dignity of manhood.  But these thirty millions are as
nothing to the crowds which will grow sleek, and talk loudly, and become aggressive on these
wheat and meat producing levels.  The country is as yet but touched by the pioneering hand
of population.  In the old countries, agriculture, following on the heels of pastoral, patriarchal
life, preceded the birth of cities.  But in this young world the cities have come first.  The
new Jasons, blessed with the experience of the Old- World adventurers, have gone forth in search
of their golden fleeces, armed with all that the science and skill of the East had as yet produced,
and, in settling up their new Colchis, have begun by the erection of first class hotels and
the fabrication of railroads.  Let the Old World bid them God speed in their work. Only it
would be well if they could be brought to acknowledge from whence they have learned all that
they know.

Our route lay right across the State to a place called Grand Haven, on Lake Michigan, from
whence we were to take boat for Milwaukee, a town in Wisconsin, on the opposite or western
shore of the lake. Michigan is sometimes called the Peninsular State, from the fact that the
main part of its territory is surrounded by Lakes Michigan and Huron, by the little Lake St.
Clair and by Lake Erie.  It juts out to the northward from the main land of Indiana and Ohio,
and is circumnavigable on the east, north, and west.  These particulars, however, refer to
a part of the State only; for a portion of it lies on the other side of Lake Michigan, between
that and Lake Superior.  I doubt whether any large inland territory in the world is blessed
with such facilities of water carriage.

On arriving at Grand Haven we found that there had been a storm on the lake, and that the passengers
from the trains of the preceding day were still remaining there, waiting to be carried over
to Milwaukee.  The water however--or the sea, as they all call it--was still very high, and
the captain declared his intention of remaining there that night; whereupon all our fellow-travelers
huddled themselves into the great lake steamboat, and proceeded to carry on life there as though
they were quite at home.  The men took themselves to the bar-room, and smoked cigars and talked
about the war with their feet upon the counter; and the women got themselves into rocking-chairs
in the saloon, and sat there listless and silent, but not more listless and silent than they
usually are in the big drawing-rooms of the big hotels.  There was supper there precisely at
six o'clock--beef-steaks, and tea, and apple jam, and hot cakes, and light fixings, to all
which luxuries an American deems himself entitled, let him have to seek his meal where he may.
And I was soon informed, with considerable energy, that let the boat be kept there as long
as it might by stress of weather, the beef-steaks and apple jam, light fixings and heavy fixings,
must be supplied at the cost of the owners of the ship. "Your first supper you pay for," my
informant told me, "because you eat that on your own account.  What you consume after that
comes of their doing, because they don't start; and if it's three meals a day for a week, it's
their look out."  It occurred to me that, under such circumstances, a captain would be very
apt to sail either in foul weather or in fair.

It was a bright moonlight night--moonlight such as we rarely have in England--and I started
off by myself for a walk, that I might see of what nature were the environs of Grand Haven.
A more melancholy place I never beheld.  The town of Grand Haven itself is placed on the opposite
side of a creek, and was to be reached by a ferry.  On our side, to which the railway came
and from which the boat was to sail, there was nothing to be seen but sand hills, which stretched
away for miles along the shore of the lake.  There were great sand mountains and sand valleys,
on the surface of which were scattered the debris of dead trees, scattered logs white with
age, and boughs half buried beneath the sand.  Grand Haven itself is but a poor place, not
having succeeded in catching much of the commerce which comes across the lake from Wisconsin,
and which takes itself on Eastward by the railway.  Altogether, it is a dreary place, such
as might break a man's heart should he find that inexorable fate required him there to pitch
his tent.

On my return I went down into the bar-room of the steamer, put my feet upon the counter, lit
my cigar, and struck into the debate then proceeding on the subject of the war.  I was getting
West, and General Fremont was the hero of the hour.  "He's a frontier man, and that's what
we want.  I guess he'll about go through.  Yes, sir."  "As for relieving General Fre-mont,"
(with the accent always strongly on the "mont,") "I guess you may as well talk of relieving
the whole West.  They won't meddle with Fre-mont.  They are beginning to know in Washington
what stuff he's made of."  "Why, sir, there are 50,000 men in these States who will follow
Fre-mont, who would not stir a foot after any other man."  From which, and the like of it in
many other places, I began to understand how difficult was the task which the statesmen in
Washington had in hand.

I received no pecuniary advantage whatever from that law as to the steamboat meals which my
new friend had revealed to me.  For my one supper of course I paid, looking forward to any
amount of subsequent gratuitous provisions.  But in the course of the night the ship sailed,
and we found ourselves at Milwaukee in time for breakfast on the following morning.

Milwaukee is a pleasant town, a very pleasant town, containing 45,000 inhabitants.  How many
of my readers can boast that they know anything of Milwaukee, or even have heard of it?  To
me its name was unknown until I saw it on huge railway placards stuck up in the smoking-rooms
and lounging halls of all American hotels.  It is the big town of Wisconsin, whereas Madison
is the capital.  It stands immediately on the western shore of Lake Michigan, and is very pleasant.
Why it should be so, and why Detroit should be the contrary, I can hardly tell; only I think
that the same verdict would be given by any English tourist.  It must be always borne in mind
that 10,000 or 40,000 inhabitants in an American town, and especially in any new Western town,
is a number which means much more than would be implied by any similar number as to an old
town in Europe.  Such a population in America consumes double the amount of beef which it would
in England, wears double the amount of clothes, and demands double as much of the comforts
of life.  If a census could be taken of the watches, it would be found, I take it, that the
American population possessed among them nearly double as many as would the English; and I
fear also that it would be found that many more of the Americans were readers and writers by
habit. In any large town in England it is probable that a higher excellence of education would
be found than in Milwaukee, and also a style of life into which more of refinement and more
of luxury had found its way.  But the general level of these things, of material and intellectual
well-being--of beef, that is, and book learning--is no doubt infinitely higher in a new American
than in an old European town.  Such an animal as a beggar is as much unknown as a mastodon.
Men out of work and in want are almost unknown.  I do not say that there are none of the hardships
of life--and to them I will come by-and-by--but want is not known as a hardship in these towns,
nor is that dense ignorance in which so large a proportion of our town populations is still
steeped.  And then the town of 40,000 inhabitants is spread over a surface which would suffice
in England for a city of four times the size.  Our towns in England--and the towns, indeed,
of Europe generally--have been built as they have been wanted.  No aspiring ambition as to
hundreds of thousands of people warmed the bosoms of their first founders.  Two or three dozen
men required habitations in the same locality, and clustered them together closely.  Many such
have failed and died out of the world's notice.  Others have thriven, and houses have been
packed on to houses, till London and Manchester, Dublin and Glasgow have been produced.  Poor
men have built, or have had built for them, wretched lanes, and rich men have erected grand
palaces.  From the nature of their beginnings such has, of necessity, been the manner of their
creation.  But in America, and especially in Western America, there has been no such necessity
and there is no such result.  The founders of cities have had the experience of the world before
them.  They have known of sanitary laws as they began.  That sewerage, and water, and gas,
and good air would be needed for a thriving community has been to them as much a matter of
fact as are the well-understood combinations between timber and nails, and bricks and mortar.
They have known that water carriage is almost a necessity for commercial success, and have
chosen their sites accordingly.  Broad streets cost as little, while land by the foot is not
as yet of value to be regarded, as those which are narrow; and therefore the sites of towns
have been prepared with noble avenues and imposing streets. A city at its commencement is laid
out with an intention that it shall be populous.  The houses are not all built at once, but
there are the places allocated for them.  The streets are not made, but there are the spaces.
Many an abortive attempt at municipal greatness has so been made and then all but abandoned.
There are wretched villages, with huge, straggling parallel ways, which will never grow into
towns.  They are the failures--failures in which the pioneers of civilization, frontier men
as they call themselves, have lost their tens of thousands of dollars.  But when the success
comes, when the happy hit has been made, and the ways of commerce have been truly foreseen
with a cunning eye, then a great and prosperous city springs up, ready made as it were, from
the earth. Such a town is Milwaukee, now containing 45,000 inhabitants, but with room apparently
for double that number; with room for four times that number, were men packed as closely there
as they are with us.

In the principal business streets of all these towns one sees vast buildings.  They are usually
called blocks, and are often so denominated in large letters on their front, as Portland Block,
Devereux Block, Buel's Block.  Such a block may face to two, three, or even four streets, and,
as I presume, has generally been a matter of one special speculation.  It may be divided into
separate houses, or kept for a single purpose, such as that of a hotel, or grouped into shops
below, and into various sets of chambers above. I have had occasion in various towns to mount
the stairs within these blocks, and have generally found some portion of them vacant-- have
sometimes found the greater portion of them vacant.  Men build on an enormous scale, three
times, ten times as much as is wanted.  The only measure of size is an increase on what men
have built before.  Monroe P. Jones, the speculator, is very probably ruined, and then begins
the world again nothing daunted.  But Jones's block remains, and gives to the city in its aggregate
a certain amount of wealth.  Or the block becomes at once of service and finds tenants.  In
which case Jones probably sells it, and immediately builds two others twice as big.  That Monroe
P. Jones will encounter ruin is almost a matter of course; but then he is none the worse for
being ruined.  It hardly makes him unhappy.  He is greedy of dollars with a terrible covetousness;
but he is greedy in order that he may speculate more widely.  He would sooner have built Jones's
tenth block, with a prospect of completing a twentieth, than settle himself down at rest for
life as the owner of a Chatsworth or a Woburn.  As for his children, he has no desire of leaving
them money.  Let the girls marry.  And for the boys--for them it will be good to begin as he
begun.  If they cannot build blocks for themselves, let them earn their bread in the blocks
of other men.  So Monroe P. Jones, with his million of dollars accomplished, advances on to
a new frontier, goes to work again on a new city, and loses it all.  As an individual I differ
very much from Monroe P. Jones.  The first block accomplished, with an adequate rent accruing
to me as the builder, I fancy that I should never try a second.  But Jones is undoubtedly the
man for the West. It is that love of money to come, joined to a strong disregard for money
made, which constitutes the vigorous frontier mind, the true pioneering organization.  Monroe
P. Jones would be a great man to all posterity if only he had a poet to sing of his valor.

It may be imagined how large in proportion to its inhabitants will be a town which spreads
itself in this way.  There are great houses left untenanted, and great gaps left unfilled.
But if the place be successful, if it promise success, it will be seen at once that there is
life all through it.  Omnibuses, or street cars working on rails, run hither and thither. 
The shops that have been opened are well filled.  The great hotels are thronged.  The quays
are crowded with vessels, and a general feeling of progress pervades the place. It is easy
to perceive whether or no an American town is going ahead.  The days of my visit to Milwaukee
were days of civil war and national trouble, but in spite of civil war and national trouble
Milwaukee looked healthy.

I have said that there was but little poverty--little to be seen of real want in these thriving
towns--but that they who labored in them had nevertheless their own hardships.  This is so.
I would not have any man believe that he can take himself to the Western States of America--to
those States of which I am now speaking-- Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, or Illinois,
and there by industry escape the ills to which flesh is heir.  The laboring Irish in these
towns eat meat seven days a week, but I have met many a laboring Irishman among them who has
wished himself back in his old cabin.  Industry is a good thing, and there is no bread so sweet
as that which is eaten in the sweat of a man's brow; but labor carried to excess wearies the
mind as well as body, and the sweat that is ever running makes the bread bitter.  There is,
I think, no task-master over free labor so exacting as an American. He knows nothing of hours,
and seems to have that idea of a man which a lady always has of a horse.  He thinks that he
will go forever.  I wish those masons in London who strike for nine hours' work with ten hours'
pay could be driven to the labor market of Western America for a spell.  And moreover, which
astonished me, I have seen men driven and hurried, as it were forced forward at their work,
in a manner which, to an English workman, would be intolerable.  This surprised me much, as
it was at variance with our--or perhaps I should say with my--preconceived ideas as to American
freedom.  I had fancied that an American citizen would not submit to be driven; that the spirit
of the country, if not the spirit of the individual, would have made it impossible.  I thought
that the shoe would have pinched quite on the other foot.  But I found that such driving did
exist, and American masters in the West with whom I had an opportunity of discussing the subject
all admitted it.  "Those men'll never half move unless they're driven," a foreman said to me
once as we stood together over some twenty men who were at their work.  "They kinder look for
it, and don't well know how to get along when they miss it."  It was not his business at this
moment to drive--nor was he driving.  He was standing at some little distance from the scene
with me, and speculating on the sight before him.  I thought the men were working at their
best; but their movements did not satisfy his practiced eye, and he saw at a glance that there
was no one immediately over them.

But there is worse even than this.  Wages in these regions are what we should call high.  An
agricultural laborer will earn perhaps fifteen dollars a month and his board, and a town laborer
will earn a dollar a day.  A dollar may be taken as representing four shillings, though it
is in fact more.  Food in these parts is much cheaper than in England, and therefore the wages
must be considered as very good.  In making, however, a just calculation it must be borne in
mind that clothing is dearer than in England, and that much more of it is necessary.  The wages
nevertheless are high, and will enable the laborer to save money, if only he can get them paid.
The complaint that wages are held back, and not even ultimately paid, is very common.  There
is no fixed rule for satisfying all such claims once a week, and thus debts to laborers are
contracted, and when contracted are ignored.  With us there is a feeling that it is pitiful,
mean almost beyond expression, to wrong a laborer of his hire.  We have men who go in debt
to tradesmen perhaps without a thought of paying them; but when we speak of such a one who
has descended into the lowest mire of insolvency, we say that he has not paid his washerwoman.
Out there in the West the washerwoman is as fair game as the tailor, the domestic servant as
the wine merchant.  If a man be honest he will not willingly take either goods or labor without
payment; and it may be hard to prove that he who takes the latter is more dishonest than he
who takes the former; but with us there is a prejudice in favor of one's washerwoman by which
the Western mind is not weakened.  "They certainly have to be smart to get it," a gentleman
said to me whom I had taxed on the subject.  "You see, on the frontier a man is bound to be
smart.  If he aint smart, he'd better go back East, perhaps as far as Europe; he'll do there."
I had got my answer, and my friend had turned the question; but the fact was admitted by him,
as it had been by many others.

Why this should be so is a question to answer which thoroughly would require a volume in itself.
As to the driving, why should men submit to it, seeing that labor is abundant, and that in
all newly-settled countries the laborer is the true hero of the age? In answer to this is to
be alleged the fact that hired labor is chiefly done by fresh comers, by Irish and Germans,
who have not as yet among them any combination sufficient to protect them from such usage.
The men over them are new as masters, masters who are rough themselves, who themselves have
been roughly driven, and who have not learned to be gracious to those below them.  It is a
part of their contract that very hard work shall be exacted, and the driving resolves itself
into this: that the master, looking after his own interest, is constantly accusing his laborer
of a breach of his part of the contract.  The men no doubt do become used to it, and slacken
probably in their endeavors when the tongue of the master or foreman is not heard.  But as
to that matter of non- payment of wages, the men must live; and here, as elsewhere, the master
who omits to pay once will hardly find laborers in future. The matter would remedy itself elsewhere,
and does it not do so here?  This of course is so, and it is not to be understood that labor
as a rule is defrauded of its hire.  But the relation of the master and the man admit of such
fraud here much more frequently than in England.  In England the laborer who did not get his
wages on the Saturday, could not go on for the next week.  To him, under such circumstances,
the world would be coming to an end.  But in the Western States the laborer does not live so
completely from hand to mouth.  He is rarely paid by the week, is accustomed to give some credit,
and, till hard pressed by bad circumstances, generally has something by him.  They do save
money, and are thus fattened up to a state which admits of victimization.  I cannot owe money
to the little village cobbler who mends my shoes, because he demands and receives his payment
when his job is done.  But to my friend in Regent Street I extend my custom on a different
system; and when I make my start for continental life I have with him a matter of unsettled
business to a considerable extent.  The American laborer is in the condition of the Regent
Street bootmaker, excepting in this respect, that he gives his credit under compulsion.  "But
does not the law set him right?  Is there no law against debtors?"  The laws against debtors
are plain enough as they are written down, but seem to be anything but plain when called into
action.  They are perfectly understood, and operations are carried on with the express purpose
of evading them.  If you proceed against a man, you find that his property is in the hands
of some one else.  You work in fact for Jones, who lives in the street next to you; but when
you quarrel with Jones about your wages, you find that according to law you have been working
for Smith, in another State.  In all countries such dodges are probably practicable.  But men
will or will not have recourse to such dodges according to the light in which they are regarded
by the community. In the Western States such dodges do not appear to be regarded as disgraceful.
"It behoves a frontier man to be smart, sir."

Honesty is the best policy.  That is a doctrine which has been widely preached, and which has
recommended itself to many minds as being one of absolute truth.  It is not very ennobling
in its sentiment, seeing that it advocates a special virtue, not on the ground that that virtue
is in itself a thing beautiful, but on account of the immediate reward which will be its consequence.
Smith is enjoined not to cheat Jones, because he will, in the long run, make more money by
dealing with Jones on the square.  This is not teaching of the highest order; but it is teaching
well adapted to human circumstances, and has obtained for itself a wide credit. One is driven,
however, to doubt whether even this teaching is not too high for the frontier man.  Is it possible
that a frontier man should be scrupulous and at the same time successful?  Hitherto those who
have allowed scruples to stand in their way have not succeeded; and they who have succeeded
and made for themselves great names, who have been the pioneers of civilization, have not allowed
ideas of exact honesty to stand in their way.  From General Jason down to General Fremont there
have been men of great aspirations but of slight scruples.  They have been ambitious of power
and desirous of progress, but somewhat regardless how power and progress shall be attained.
Clive and Warren Hastings were great frontier men, but we cannot imagine that they had ever
realized the doctrine that honesty is the best policy.  Cortez, and even Columbus, the prince
of frontier men, are in the same category.  The names of such heroes is legion; but with none
of them has absolute honesty been a favorite virtue.  "It behoves a frontier man to be smart,
sir."  Such, in that or other language, has been the prevailing idea.  Such is the prevailing
idea.  And one feels driven to ask one's self whether such must not be the prevailing idea
with those who leave the world and its rules behind them, and go forth with the resolve that
the world and its rules shall follow them.

Of filibustering, annexation, and polishing savages off the face of creation there has been
a great deal, and who can deny that humanity has been the gainer?  It seems to those who look
widely back over history, that all such works have been carried on in obedience to God's laws.
When Jacob by Rebecca's aid cheated his elder brother, he was very smart; but we cannot but
suppose that a better race was by this smartness put in possession of the patriarchal scepter.
Esau was polished off, and readers of Scripture wonder why heaven, with its thunder, did not
open over the heads of Rebecca and her son.  But Jacob, with all his fraud, was the chosen
one.  Perhaps the day may come when scrupulous honesty may be the best policy, even on the
frontier.  I can only say that hitherto that day seems to be as distant as ever.  I do not
pretend to solve the problem, but simply record my opinion that under circumstances as they
still exist I should not willingly select a frontier life for my children.

I have said that all great frontier men have been unscrupulous. There is, however, an exception
in history which may perhaps serve to prove the rule.  The Puritans who colonized New England
were frontier men, and were, I think, in general scrupulously honest. They had their faults.
They were stern, austere men, tyrannical at the backbone when power came in their way, as are
all pioneers, hard upon vices for which they who made the laws had themselves no minds; but
they were not dishonest.

At Milwaukee I went up to see the Wisconsin volunteers, who were then encamped on open ground
in the close vicinity of the town.  Of Wisconsin I had heard before--and have heard the same
opinion repeated since--that it was more backward in its volunteering than its neighbor States
in the West.  Wisconsin has 760,000 inhabitants, and its tenth thousand of volunteers was not
then made up; whereas Indiana, with less than double its number, had already sent out thirty-six
thousand.  Iowa, with a hundred thousand less of inhabitants, had then made up fifteen thousand.
But nevertheless to me it seemed that Wisconsin was quite alive to its presumed duty in that
respect.  Wisconsin, with its three-quarters of a million of people, is as large as England.
Every acre of it may be made productive, but as yet it is not half cleared.  Of such a country
its young men are its heart's blood.  Ten thousand men, fit to bear arms, carried away from
such a land to the horrors of civil war, is a sight as full of sadness as any on which the
eye can rest.  Ah me, when will they return, and with what altered hopes!  It is, I fear, easier
to turn the sickle into the sword than to recast the sword back again into the sickle!

We found a completed regiment at Wisconsin consisting entirely of Germans.  A thousand Germans
had been collected in that State and brought together in one regiment, and I was informed by
an officer on the ground that there are many Germans in sundry other of the Wisconsin regiments.
It may be well to mention here that the number of Germans through all these Western States
is very great. Their number and well-being were to me astonishing.  That they form a great
portion of the population of New York, making the German quarter of that city the third largest
German town in the world, I have long known; but I had no previous idea of their expansion
westward.  In Detroit nearly every third shop bore a German name, and the same remark was to
be made at Milwaukee; and on all hands I heard praises of their morals, of their thrift, and
of their new patriotism.  I was continually told how far they exceeded the Irish settlers.
To me in all parts of the world an Irishman is dear. When handled tenderly he becomes a creature
most lovable.  But with all my judgment in the Irishman's favor, and with my prejudices leaning
the same way, I feel myself bound to state what I heard and what I saw as to the Germans.

But this regiment of Germans, and another not completed regiment, called from the State generally,
were as yet without arms, accouterments, or clothing.  There was the raw material of the regiment,
but there was nothing else.  Winter was coming on--winter in which the mercury is commonly
twenty degrees below zero--and the men were in tents with no provision against the cold.  These
tents held each two men, and were just large enough for two to lie.  The canvas of which they
were made seemed to me to be thin, but was, I think, always double.  At this camp there was
a house in which the men took their meals, but I visited other camps in which there was no
such accommodation.  I saw the German regiment called to its supper by tuck of drum, and the
men marched in gallantly, armed each with a knife and spoon.  I managed to make my way in at
the door after them, and can testify to the excellence of the provisions of which their supper
consisted.  A poor diet never enters into any combination of circumstances contemplated by
an American.  Let him be where he will, animal food is with him the first necessary of life,
and he is always provided accordingly.  As to those Wisconsin men whom I saw, it was probable
that they might be marched off, down South to Washington, or to the doubtful glories of the
Western campaign under Fremont, before the winter commenced.  The same might have been said
of any special regiment. But taking the whole mass of men who were collected under canvas at
the end of the autumn of 1861, and who were so collected without arms or military clothing,
and without protection from the weather, it did seem that the task taken in hand by the Commissariat
of the Northern army was one not devoid of difficulty.

The view from Milwaukee over Lake Michigan is very pleasing.  One looks upon a vast expanse
of water to which the eye finds no bounds, and therefore there are none of the common attributes
of lake beauty; but the color of the lake is bright, and within a walk of the city the traveler
comes to the bluffs or low round-topped hills, from which we can look down upon the shores.
These bluffs form the beauty of Wisconsin and Minnesota, and relieve the eye after the flat
level of Michigan.  Round Detroit there is no rising ground, and therefore, perhaps, it is
that Detroit is uninteresting.

I have said that those who are called on to labor in these States have their own hardships,
and I have endeavored to explain what are the sufferings to which the town laborer is subject.
To escape from this is the laborer's great ambition, and his mode of doing so consists almost
universally in the purchase of land.  He saves up money in order that he may buy a section
of an allotment, and thus become his own master.  All his savings are made with a view to this
independence.  Seated on his own land he will have to work probably harder than ever, but he
will work for himself.  No task- master can then stand over him and wound his pride with harsh
words.  He will be his own master; will eat the food which he himself has grown, and live in
the cabin which his own hands have built.  This is the object of his life; and to secure this
position he is content to work late and early and to undergo the indignities of previous servitude.
The government price for land is about five shillings an acre--one dollar and a quarter--and
the settler may get it for this price if he be contented to take it not only untouched as regards
clearing, but also far removed from any completed road.  The traffic in these lands has been
the great speculating business of Western men.  Five or six years ago, when the rage for such
purchases was at its height, land was becoming a scarce article in the market.  Individuals
or companies bought it up with the object of reselling it at a profit; and many, no doubt,
did make money.  Railway companies were, in fact, companies combined for the purchase of land.
They purchased land, looking to increase the value of it fivefold by the opening of a railroad.
It may easily be understood that a railway, which could not be in itself remunerative, might
in this way become a lucrative speculation.  No settler could dare to place himself absolutely
at a distance from any thoroughfare.  At first the margins of nature's highways, the navigable
rivers and lakes, were cleared.  But as the railway system grew and expanded itself, it became
manifest that lands might be rendered quickly available which were not so circumstanced by
nature.  A company which had purchased an enormous territory from the United States government
at five shillings an acre might well repay itself all the cost of a railway through that territory,
even though the receipts of the railway should do no more than maintain the current expenses.
It is in this way that the thousands of miles of American railroads have been opened; and here
again must be seen the immense advantages which the States as a new country have enjoyed. 
With us the purchase of valuable land for railways, together with the legal expenses which
those compulsory purchases entailed, have been so great that with all our traffic railways
are not remunerative.  But in the States the railways have created the value of the land. 
The States have been able to begin at the right end, and to arrange that the districts which
are benefited shall themselves pay for the benefit they receive.

The government price of land is 125 cents, or about five shillings an acre; and even this need
not be paid at once if the settler purchase directly from the government.  He must begin by
making certain improvements on the selected land--clearing and cultivating some small portion,
building a hut, and probably sinking a well. When this has been done--when he has thus given
a pledge of his intentions by depositing on the land the value of a certain amount of labor,
he cannot be removed.  He cannot be removed for a term of years, and then if he pays the price
of the land it becomes his own with an indefeasible title.  Many such settlements are made
on the purchase of warrants for land.  Soldiers returning from the Mexican wars were donated
with warrants for land--the amount being 160 acres, or the quarter of a section.  The localities
of such lands were not specified, but the privilege granted was that of occupying any quarter-section
not hitherto tenanted.  It will, of course, be understood that lands favorably situated would
be tenanted.  Those contiguous to railways were of course so occupied, seeing that the lines
were not made till the lands were in the hands of the companies.  It may therefore be understood
of what nature would be the traffic in these warrants.  The owner of a single warrant might
find it of no value to him.  To go back utterly into the woods, away from river or road, and
there to commence with 160 acres of forest, or even of prairie, would be a hopeless task even
to an American settler.  Some mode of transport for his produce must be found before his produce
would be of value--before, indeed, he could find the means of living.  But a company buying
up a large aggregate of such warrants would possess the means of making such allotments valuable
and of reselling them at greatly increased prices.

The primary settler, therefore--who, however, will not usually have been the primary owner--goes
to work upon his land amid all the wildness of nature.  He levels and burns the first trees,
and raises his first crop of corn amid stumps still standing four or five feet above the soil;
but he does not do so till some mode of conveyance has been found for him.  So much I have
said hoping to explain the mode in which the frontier speculator paves the way for the frontier
agriculturist.  But the permanent farmer very generally comes on the land as the third owner.
The first settler is a rough fellow, and seems to be so wedded to his rough life that he leaves
his land after his first wild work is done, and goes again farther off to some untouched allotment.
He finds that he can sell his improvements at a profitable rate and takes the price. He is
a preparer of farms rather than a farmer.  He has no love for the soil which his hand has first
turned.  He regards it merely as an investment; and when things about him are beginning to
wear an aspect of comfort, when his property has become valuable, he sells it, packs up his
wife and little ones, and goes again into the woods.  The Western American has no love for
his own soil or his own house.  The matter with him is simply one of dollars.  To keep a farm
which he could sell at an advantage from any feeling of affection--from what we should call
an association of ideas--would be to him as ridiculous as the keeping of a family pig would
be in an English farmer's establishment.  The pig is a part of the farmer's stock in trade,
and must go the way of all pigs.  To me I confess that the manliness of such a man is very
charming.  He is dirty, and, perhaps, squalid. His children are sick and he is without comforts.
His wife is pale, and you think you see shortness of life written in the faces of all the family.
But over and above it all there is an independence which sits gracefully on their shoulders,
and teaches you at the first glance that the man has a right to assume himself to be your equal.
It is for this position that the laborer works, bearing hard words and the indignity of tyranny;
suffering also too often the dishonest ill usage which his superior power enables the master
to inflict.

"I have lived very rough," I heard a poor woman say, whose husband had ill used and deserted
her.  "I have known what it is to be hungry and cold, and to work hard till my bones have ached.
I only wish that I might have the same chance again.  If I could have ten acres cleared two
miles away from any living being, I could be happy with my children.  I find a kind of comfort
when I am at work from daybreak to sundown, and know that it is all my own."  I believe that
life in the backwoods has an allurement to those who have been used to it that dwellers in
cities can hardly comprehend.

From Milwaukee we went across Wisconsin, and reached the Mississippi at La Crosse.  From hence,
according to agreement, we were to start by steamer at once up the river.  But we were delayed
again, as had happened to us before on Lake Michigan at Grand Haven.

CHAPTER X.

THE UPPER MISSISSIPPI.

It had been promised to us that we should start from La Crosse by the river steamer immediately
on our arrival there; but, on reaching La Crosse, we found that the vessel destined to take
us up the river had not yet come down.  She was bringing a regiment from Minnesota, and, under
such circumstances, some pardon might be extended to irregularities.  This plea was made by
one of the boat clerks in a very humble tone, and was fully accepted by us.  The wonder was
that, at such a period, all means of public conveyance were not put absolutely out of gear.
One might surmise that when regiments were constantly being moved for the purposes of civil
war--when the whole North had but the one object of collecting together a sufficient number
of men to crush the South--ordinary traveling for ordinary purposes would be difficult, slow,
and subject to sudden stoppages.  Such, however, was not the case either in the Northern or
Western States.  The trains ran much as usual, and those connected with the boats and railways
were just as anxious as ever to secure passengers.  The boat clerk at La Crosse apologized
amply for the delay; and we sat ourselves down with patience to await the arrival of the second
Minnesota Regiment on its way to Washington.

During the four hours that we were kept waiting we were harbored on board a small steamer;
and at about eleven the terribly harsh whistle that is made by the Mississippi boats informed
us that the regiment was arriving.  It came up to the quay in two steamers--750 being brought
in that which was to take us back, and 250 in a smaller one.  The moon was very bright, and
great flaming torches were lit on the vessel's side, so that all the operations of the men
were visible.  The two steamers had run close up, thrusting us away from the quay in their
passage, but doing it so gently that we did not even feel the motion.  These large boats--and
their size may be understood from the fact that one of them had just brought down 750 men--are
moved so easily and so gently that they come gliding in among each other without hesitation
and without pause. On English waters we do not willingly run ships against each other; and
when we do so unwillingly, they bump and crush and crash upon each other, and timbers fly while
men are swearing.  But here there was neither crashing nor swearing; and the boats noiselessly
pressed against each other as though they were cased in muslin and crinoline.

I got out upon the quay and stood close by the plank, watching each man as he left the vessel
and walked across toward the railway. Those whom I had previously seen in tents were not equipped;
but these men were in uniform, and each bore his musket.  Taking them altogether, they were
as fine a set of men as I ever saw collected. No man could doubt, on seeing them, that they
bore on their countenances the signs of higher breeding and better education than would be
seen in a thousand men enlisted in England.  I do not mean to argue from this that Americans
are better than English.  I do not mean to argue here that they are even better educated. 
My assertion goes to show that the men generally were taken from a higher level in the community
than that which fills our own ranks. It was a matter of regret to me, here and on many subsequent
occasions, to see men bound for three years to serve as common soldiers who were so manifestly
fitted for a better and more useful life.  To me it is always a source of sorrow to see a man
enlisted. I feel that the individual recruit is doing badly with himself-- carrying himself,
and the strength and intelligence which belong to him, to a bad market.  I know that there
must be soldiers; but as to every separate soldier I regret that he should be one of them.
And the higher is the class from which such soldiers are drawn, the greater the intelligence
of the men so to be employed, the deeper with me is that feeling of regret.  But this strikes
one much less in an old country than in a country that is new.  In the old countries population
is thick and food sometimes scarce.  Men can be spared; and any employment may be serviceable,
even though that employment be in itself so unproductive as that of fighting battles or preparing
for them.  But in the Western States of America every arm that can guide a plow is of incalculable
value.  Minnesota was admitted as a State about three years before this time, and its whole
population is not much above 150,000.  Of this number perhaps 40,000 may be working men.  And
now this infant State, with its huge territory and scanty population, is called upon to send
its heart's blood out to the war.

And it has sent its heart's best blood.  Forth they came--fine, stalwart, well-grown fellows--looking,
to my eye, as though they had as yet but faintly recognized the necessary severity of military
discipline.  To them hitherto the war had seemed to be an arena on which each might do something
for his country which that country would recognize.  To themselves as yet--and to me also--
they were a band of heroes, to be reduced by the compressing power of military discipline to
the lower level, but more necessary position, of a regiment of soldiers.  Ah, me! how terrible
to them has been the breaking up of that delusion!  When a poor yokel in England is enlisted
with a shilling and a promise of unlimited beer and glory, one pities, and, if possible, would
save him.  But with him the mode of life to which he goes may not be much inferior to that
he leaves.  It may be that for him soldiering is the best trade possible in his circumstances.
It may keep him from the hen- roosts, and perhaps from his neighbors' pantries; and discipline
may be good for him.  Population is thick with us; and there are many whom it may be well to
collect and make available under the strictest surveillance.  But of these men whom I saw entering
on their career upon the banks of the Mississippi, many were fathers of families, many were
owners of lands, many were educated men capable of high aspirations--all were serviceable members
of their State.  There were probably there not three or four of whom it would be well that
the State should be rid.  As soldiers, fit or capable of being made fit for the duties they
had undertaken, I could find but one fault with them.  Their average age was too high.  There
were men among them with grizzled beards, and many who had counted thirty, thirty-five, and
forty years.  They had, I believe, devoted themselves with a true spirit of patriotism.  No
doubt each had some ulterior hope as to himself, as has every mortal patriot.  Regulus, when
he returned hopeless to Carthage, trusted that some Horace would tell his story.  Each of these
men from Minnesota looked probably forward to his reward; but the reward desired was of a high
class.

The first great misery to be endured by these regiments will be the military lesson of obedience
which they must learn before they can be of any service.  It always seemed to me, when I came
near them, that they had not as yet recognized the necessary austerity of an officer's duty.
Their idea of a captain was the stage idea of a leader of dramatic banditti--a man to be followed
and obeyed as a leader, but to be obeyed with that free and easy obedience which is accorded
to the reigning chief of the forty thieves.  "Waal, captain," I have heard a private say to
his officer, as he sat on one seat in a railway car, with his feet upon the back of another.
And the captain has looked as though he did not like it.  The captain did not like it; but
the poor private was being fast carried to that destiny which he would like still less.  From
the first I have had faith in the Northern army; but from the first I have felt that the suffering
to be endured by these free and independent volunteers would be very great.  A man, to be available
as a private soldier, must be compressed and belted in till he be a machine.

As soon as the men had left the vessel we walked over the side of it and took possession. 
"I am afraid your cabin won't be ready for a quarter of an hour," said the clerk.  "Such a
body of men as that will leave some dirt after them."  I assured him, of course, that our expectations
under such circumstances were very limited, and that I was fully aware that the boat and the
boat's company were taken up with matters of greater moment than the carriage of ordinary passengers.
But to this he demurred altogether.  "The regiments were very little to them, but occasioned
much trouble. Everything, however, should be square in fifteen minutes."  At the expiration
of the time named the key of our state-room was given to us, and we found the appurtenances
as clean as though no soldier had ever put his foot upon the vessel.

From La Crosse to St. Paul the distance up the river is something over 200 miles; and from
St. Paul down to Dubuque in Iowa, to which we went on our return, the distance is 450 miles.
We were, therefore, for a considerable time on board these boats--more so than such a journey
may generally make necessary, as we were delayed at first by the soldiers, and afterward by
accidents, such as the breaking of a paddle-wheel, and other causes, to which navigation on
the Upper Mississippi seems to be liable.  On the whole, we slept on board four nights, and
lived on board as many days.  I cannot say that the life was comfortable, though I do not know
that it could be made more so by any care on the part of the boat owners.  My first complaint
would be against the great heat of the cabins.  The Americans, as a rule, live in an atmosphere
which is almost unbearable by an Englishman.  To this cause, I am convinced, is to be attributed
their thin faces, their pale skins, their unenergetic temperament--unenergetic as regards physical
motion--and their early old age.  The winters are long and cold in America, and mechanical
ingenuity is far extended.  These two facts together have created a system of stoves, hot-air
pipes, steam chambers, and heating apparatus so extensive that, from autumn till the end of
spring, all inhabited rooms are filled with the atmosphere of a hot oven.  An Englishman fancies
that he is to be baked, and for awhile finds it almost impossible to exist in the air prepared
for him.  How the heat is engendered on board the river steamers I do not know, but it is engendered
to so great a degree that the sitting-cabins are unendurable.  The patient is therefore driven
out at all hours into the outside balconies of the boat, or on to the top roof--for it is a
roof rather than a deck-- and there, as he passes through the air at the rate of twenty miles
an hour, finds himself chilled to the very bones.  That is my first complaint.  But as the
boats are made for Americans, and as Americans like hot air, I do not put it forward with any
idea that a change ought to be effected.  My second complaint is equally unreasonable, and
is quite as incapable of a remedy as the first. Nine-tenths of the travelers carry children
with them.  They are not tourists engaged on pleasure excursions, but men and women intent
on the business of life.  They are moving up and down looking for fortune and in search of
new homes.  Of course they carry with them all their household goods.  Do not let any critic
say that I grudge these young travelers their right to locomotion. Neither their right to locomotion
is grudged by me, nor any of those privileges which are accorded in America to the rising generation.
The habits of their country and the choice of their parents give to them full dominion over
all hours and over all places, and it would ill become a foreigner to make such habits and
such choice a ground of serious complaint.  But, nevertheless, the uncontrolled energies of
twenty children round one's legs do not convey comfort or happiness, when the passing events
are producing noise and storm rather than peace and sunshine.  I must protest that American
babies are an unhappy race.  They eat and drink just as they please; they are never punished;
they are never banished, snubbed, and kept in the background as children are kept with us,
and yet they are wretched and uncomfortable.  My heart has bled for them as I have heard them
squalling by the hour together in agonies of discontent and dyspepsia.  Can it be, I wonder,
that children are happier when they are made to obey orders, and are sent to bed at six o'clock,
than when allowed to regulate their own conduct; that bread and milk are more favorable to
laughter and soft, childish ways than beef-steaks and pickles three times a day; that an occasional
whipping, even, will conduce to rosy cheeks?  It is an idea which I should never dare to broach
to an American mother; but I must confess that, after my travels on the Western Continent,
my opinions have a tendency in that direction.  Beef-steaks and pickles certainly produce smart
little men and women.  Let that be taken for granted.  But rosy laughter and winning, childish
ways are, I fancy, the produce of bread and milk.  But there was a third reason why traveling
on these boats was not so pleasant as I had expected.  I could not get my fellow-travelers
to talk to me.  It must be understood that our fellow-travelers were not generally of that
class which we Englishmen, in our pride, designate as gentlemen and ladies.  They were people,
as I have said, in search of new homes and new fortunes.  But I protest that as such they would
have been, in those parts, much more agreeable as companions to me than any gentlemen or any
ladies, if only they would have talked to me.  I do not accuse them of any incivility.  If
addressed, they answered me.  If application was made by me for any special information, trouble
was taken to give it me.  But I found no aptitude, no wish for conversation--nay, even a disinclination
to converse.  In the Western States I do not think that I was ever addressed first by an American
sitting next to me at table. Indeed, I never held any conversation at a public table in the
West.  I have sat in the same room with men for hours, and have not had a word spoken to me.
I have done my very best to break through this ice, and have always failed.  A Western American
man is not a talking man.  He will sit for hours over a stove, with a cigar in his mouth and
his hat over his eyes, chewing the cud of reflection. A dozen will sit together in the same
way, and there shall not be a dozen words spoken between them in an hour.  With the women one's
chance of conversation is still worse.  It seemed as though the cares of the world had been
too much for them, and that all talking excepting as to business--demands, for instance, on
the servants for pickles for their children--had gone by the board.  They were generally hard,
dry, and melancholy.  I am speaking, of course, of aged females--from five and twenty, perhaps,
to thirty--who had long since given up the amusements and levities of life.  I very soon abandoned
any attempt at drawing a word from these ancient mothers of families; but not the less did
I ponder in my mind over the circumstances of their lives.  Had things gone with them so sadly--was
the struggle for independence so hard--that all the softness of existence had been trodden
out of them?  In the cities, too, it was much the same.  It seemed to me that a future mother
of a family, in those parts, had left all laughter behind her when she put out her finger for
the wedding ring.

For these reasons I must say that life on board these steamboats was not as pleasant as I had
hoped to find it; but for our discomfort in this respect we found great atonement in the scenery
through which we passed.  I protest that of all the river scenery that I know that of the Upper
Mississippi is by far the finest and the most continued.  One thinks, of course, of the Rhine;
but, according to my idea of beauty, the Rhine is nothing to the Upper Mississippi.  For miles
upon miles--for hundreds of miles--the course of the river runs through low hills, which are
there called bluffs.  These bluffs rise in every imaginable form, looking sometimes like large,
straggling, unwieldy castles, and then throwing themselves into sloping lawns which stretch
back away from the river till the eye is lost in their twists and turnings. Landscape beauty,
as I take it, consists mainly in four attributes-- in water; in broken land; in scattered timber,
timber scattered as opposed to continuous forest timber; and in the accident of color. In all
these particulars the banks of the Upper Mississippi can hardly be beaten.  There are no high
mountains; but high mountains themselves are grand rather than beautiful.  There are no high
mountains; but there is a succession of hills, which group themselves forever without monotony.
It is, perhaps, the ever- variegated forms of these bluffs which chiefly constitute the wonderful
loveliness of this river.  The idea constantly occurs that some point on every hillside would
form the most charming site ever yet chosen for a noble residence.  I have passed up and down
rivers clothed to the edge with continuous forest.  This at first is grand enough, but the
eye and feeling soon become weary.  Here the trees are scattered so that the eye passes through
them, and ever and again a long lawn sweeps back into the country and up the steep side of
a hill, making the traveler long to stay there and linger through the oaks, and climb the bluffs,
and lay about on the bold but easy summits.  The boat, however, steams quickly up against the
current, and the happy valleys are left behind one quickly after another.  The river is very
various in its breadth, and is constantly divided by islands.  It is never so broad that the
beauty of the banks is lost in the distance or injured by it. It is rapid, but has not the
beautifully bright color of some European rivers--of the Rhine, for instance, and the Rhone.
But what is wanting in the color of the water is more than compensated by the wonderful hues
and luster of the shores.  We visited the river in October, and I must presume that they who
seek it solely for the sake of scenery should go there in that month.  It was not only that
the foliage of the trees was bright with every imaginable color, but that the grass was bronzed
and that the rocks were golden.  And this beauty did not last only for awhile, and then cease.
On the Rhine there are lovely spots and special morsels of scenery with which the traveler
becomes duly enraptured.  But on the Upper Mississippi there are no special morsels.  The position
of the sun in the heavens will, as it always does, make much difference in the degree of beauty.
The hour before and the half hour after sunset are always the loveliest for such scenes.  But
of the shores themselves one may declare that they are lovely throughout those four hundred
miles which run immediately south from St. Paul.

About half way between La Crosse and St. Paul we came upon Lake Pepin, and continued our course
up the lake for perhaps fifty or sixty miles.  This expanse of water is narrow for a lake,
and, by those who know the lower courses of great rivers, would hardly be dignified by that
name.  But, nevertheless, the breadth here lessens the beauty.  There are the same bluffs,
the same scattered woodlands, and the same colors.  But they are either at a distance, or else
they are to be seen on one side only.  The more that I see of the beauty of scenery, and the
more I consider its elements, the stronger becomes my conviction that size has but little to
do with it, and rather detracts from it than adds to it.  Distance gives one of its greatest
charms, but it does so by concealing rather than displaying an expanse of surface.  The beauty
of distance arises from the romance, the feeling of mystery which it creates. It is like the
beauty of woman, which allures the more the more that it is vailed.  But open, uncovered land
and water, mountains which simply rise to great heights, with long, unbroken slopes, wide expanses
of lake, and forests which are monotonous in their continued thickness, are never lovely to
me.  A landscape should always be partly vailed, and display only half its charms.

To my taste the finest stretch of the river was that immediately above Lake Pepin; but then,
at this point, we had all the glory of the setting sun.  It was like fairy-land, so bright
were the golden hues, so fantastic were the shapes of the hills, so broken and twisted the
course of the waters!  But the noisy steamer went groaning up the narrow passages with almost
unabated speed, and left the fairy land behind all too quickly.  Then the bell would ring for
tea, and the children with the beef-steaks, the pickled onions, and the light fixings would
all come over again.  The care- laden mothers would tuck the bibs under the chins of their
tyrant children, and some embryo senator of four years old would listen with concentrated attention
while the negro servant recapitulated to him the delicacies of the supper-table, in order that
he might make his choice with due consideration.  "Beef-steak," the embryo four-year old senator
would lisp, "and stewed potato, and buttered toast, and corn-cake, and coffee,--and--and--and--mother,
mind you get me the pickles."

St. Paul enjoys the double privilege of being the commercial and political capital of Minnesota.
The same is the case with Boston, in Massachusetts, but I do not remember another instance
in which it is so.  It is built on the eastern bank of the Mississippi, though the bulk of
the State lies to the west of the river.  It is noticeable as the spot up to which the river
is navigable. Immediately above St. Paul there are narrow rapids up which no boat can pass.
North of this continuous navigation does not go; but from St. Paul down to New Orleans and
the Gulf of Mexico it is uninterrupted.  The distance to St. Louis in Missouri, a town built
below the confluence of the three rivers, Mississippi, Missouri, and Illinois, is 900 miles
and then the navigable waters down to the Gulf wash a southern country of still greater extent.
No river on the face of the globe forms a highway for the produce of so wide an extent of agricultural
land.  The Mississippi, with its tributaries, carried to market, before the war, the produce
of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee, Missouri, Kansas,
Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana. This country is larger than England, Ireland, Scotland,
Holland, Belgium, France, Germany, and Spain together, and is undoubtedly composed of much
more fertile land.  The States named comprise the great center valley of the continent, and
are the farming lands and garden grounds of the Western World.  He who has not seen corn on
the ground in Illinois or Minnesota, does not know to what extent the fertility of land may
go, or how great may be the weight of cereal crops.  And for all this the Mississippi was the
high-road to market.  When the crop of 1861 was garnered, this high-road was stopped by the
war.  What suffering this entailed on the South I will not here stop to say, but on the West
the effect was terrible. Corn was in such plenty--Indian-corn, that is, or maize--that it was
not worth the farmer's while to prepare it for market.  When I was in Illinois, the second
quality of Indian-corn, when shelled, was not worth more than from eight to ten cents a bushel.
But the shelling and preparation is laborious, and in some instances it was found better to
burn it for fuel than to sell it.  Respecting the export of corn from the West, I must say
a further word or two in the next chapter; but it seemed to be indispensable that I should
point out here how great to the United States is the need of the Mississippi.  Nor is it for
corn and wheat only that its waters are needed.  Timber, lead, iron, coal, pork--all find,
or should find, their exit to the world at large by this road.  There are towns on it, and
on its tributaries, already holding more than one hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants. 
The number of Cincinnati exceeds that, as also does the number of St. Louis.  Under these circumstances
it is not wonderful that the States should wish to keep in their own hands the navigation of
this river.

It is not wonderful.  But it will not, I think, be admitted by the politicians of the world
that the navigation of the Mississippi need be closed against the West, even though the Southern
States should succeed in raising themselves to the power and dignity of a separate nationality.
If the waters of the Danube be not open to Austria, it is through the fault of Austria.  That
the subject will be one of trouble, no man can doubt; and of course it would be well for the
North to avoid that, or any other trouble.  In the mean time the importance of this right of
way must be admitted; and it must be admitted, also, that whatever may be the ultimate resolve
of the North, it will be very difficult to reconcile the West to a divided dominion of the
Mississippi.

St. Paul contains about 14,000 inhabitants, and, like all other American towns, is spread over
a surface of ground adapted to the accommodation of a very extended population.  As it is belted
on one side by the river, and on the other by the bluffs which accompany the course of the
river, the site is pretty, and almost romantic.  Here also we found a great hotel, a huge,
square building, such as we in England might perhaps place near to a railway terminus in such
a city as Glasgow or Manchester, but on which no living Englishman would expend his money in
a town even five times as big again as St. Paul.  Everything was sufficiently good, and much
more than sufficiently plentiful.  The whole thing went on exactly as hotels do down in Massachusetts
or the State of New York.  Look at the map and see where St. Paul is.  Its distance from all
known civilization--all civilization that has succeeded in obtaining acquaintance with the
world at large--is very great. Even American travelers do not go up there in great numbers,
excepting those who intend to settle there.  A stray sportsman or two, American or English,
as the case may be, makes his way into Minnesota for the sake of shooting, and pushes on up
through St. Paul to the Red River.  Some few adventurous spirits visit the Indian settlements,
and pass over into the unsettled regions of Dacotah and Washington Territory.  But there is
no throng of traveling.  Nevertheless, a hotel has been built there capable of holding three
hundred guests, and other hotels exist in the neighborhood, one of which is even larger than
that at St. Paul. Who can come to them, and create even a hope that such an enterprise may
be remunerative?  In America it is seldom more than hope, for one always hears that such enterprises
fail.

When I was there the war was in hand, and it was hardly to be expected that any hotel should
succeed.  The landlord told me that he held it at the present time for a very low rent, and
that he could just manage to keep it open without loss.  The war which hindered people from
traveling, and in that way injured the innkeepers, also hindered people from housekeeping,
and reduced them to the necessity of boarding out, by which the innkeepers were of course benefited.
At St. Paul I found that the majority of the guests were inhabitants of the town, boarding
at the hotel, and thus dispensing with the cares of a separate establishment.  I do not know
what was charged for such accommodation at St. Paul, but I have come across large houses at
which a single man could get all that he required for a dollar a day.  Now Americans are great
consumers, especially at hotels, and all that a man requires includes three hot meals, with
a choice from about two dozen dishes at each.

From St. Paul there are two waterfalls to be seen, which we, of course, visited.  We crossed
the river at Fort Snelling, a rickety, ill-conditioned building standing at the confluence
of the Minnesota and Mississippi Rivers, built there to repress the Indians.  It is, I take
it, very necessary, especially at the present moment, as the Indians seem to require repressing.
They have learned that the attention of the Federal government has been called to the war,
and have become bold in consequence.  When I was at St. Paul I heard of a party of Englishmen
who had been robbed of everything they possessed, and was informed that the farmers in the
distant parts of the State were by no means secure.  The Indians are more to be pitied than
the farmers.  They are turning against enemies who will neither forgive nor forget any injuries
done. When the war is over they will be improved, and polished, and annexed, till no Indian
will hold an acre of land in Minnesota.  At present Fort Snelling is the nucleus of a recruiting
camp.  On the point between the bluffs of the two rivers there is a plain, immediately in front
of the fort, and there we saw the newly-joined Minnesota recruits going through their first
military exercises. They were in detachments of twenties, and were rude enough at their goose
step.  The matter which struck me most in looking at them was the difference of condition which
I observed in the men.  There were the country lads, fresh from the farms, such as we see following
the recruiting sergeant through English towns; but there were also men in black coats and black
trowsers, with thin boots, and trimmed beards--beards which had been trimmed till very lately;
and some of them with beards which showed that they were no longer young.  It was inexpressibly
melancholy to see such men as these twisting and turning about at the corporal's word, each
handling some stick in his hand in lieu of weapon.  Of course, they were more awkward than
the boys, even though they were twice more assiduous in their efforts.  Of course, they were
sad and wretched. I saw men there that were very wretched--all but heart-broken, if one might
judge from their faces.  They should not have been there handling sticks, and moving their
unaccustomed legs in cramped paces.  They were as razors, for which no better purpose could
be found than the cutting of blocks.  When such attempts are made the block is not cut, but
the razor is spoiled.  Most unfit for the commencement of a soldier's life were some that I
saw there, but I do not doubt that they had been attracted to the work by the one idea of doing
something for their country in its trouble.

From Fort Snelling we went on to the Falls of Minnehaha. Minnehaha, laughing water.  Such,
I believe, is the interpretation. The name in this case is more imposing than the fall.  It
is a pretty little cascade, and might do for a picnic in fine weather, but it is not a waterfall
of which a man can make much when found so far away from home.  Going on from Minnehaha we
came to Minneapolis, at which place there is a fine suspension bridge across the river, just
above the falls of St. Anthony and leading to the town of that name.  Till I got there I could
hardly believe that in these days there should be a living village called Minneapolis by living
men.  I presume I should describe it as a town, for it has a municipality, and a post-office,
and, of course, a large hotel.  The interest of the place, however, is in the saw- mills. 
On the opposite side of the water, at St. Anthony, is another very large hotel--and also a
smaller one.  The smaller one may be about the size of the first-class hotels at Cheltenham
or Leamington.  They were both closed, and there seemed to be but little prospect that either
would be opened till the war should be over.  The saw-mills, however, were at full work, and
to my eyes were extremely picturesque.  I had been told that the beauty of the falls had been
destroyed by the mills.  Indeed, all who had spoken to me about St. Anthony had said so.  But
I did not agree with them.  Here, as at Ottawa, the charm in fact consists, not in an uninterrupted
shoot of water, but in a succession of rapids over a bed of broken rocks.  Among these rocks
logs of loose timber are caught, which have escaped from their proper courses, and here they
lie, heaped up in some places, and constructing themselves into bridges in others, till the
freshets of the spring carry them off. The timber is generally brought down in logs to St.
Anthony, is sawn there, and then sent down the Mississippi in large rafts. These rafts on other
rivers are, I think, generally made of unsawn timber.  Such logs as have escaped in the manner
above described are recognized on their passage down the river by their marks, and are made
up separately, the original owners receiving the value--or not receiving it as the case may
be.  "There is quite a trade going on with the loose lumber," my informant told me.  And from
his tone I was led to suppose that he regarded the trade as sufficiently lucrative, if not
peculiarly honest.

There is very much in the mode of life adopted by the settlers in these regions which creates
admiration.  The people are all intelligent.  They are energetic and speculative, conceiving
grand ideas, and carrying them out almost with the rapidity of magic.  A suspension bridge
half a mile long is erected, while in England we should be fastening together a few planks
for a foot passage. Progress, mental as well as material, is the demand of the people generally.
Everybody understands everything, and everybody intends sooner or later to do everything. 
All this is very grand; but then there is a terrible drawback.  One hears on every side of
intelligence, but one hears also on every side of dishonesty.  Talk to whom you will, of whom
you will, and you will hear some tale of successful or unsuccessful swindling.  It seems to
be the recognized rule of commerce in the far West that men shall go into the world's markets
prepared to cheat and to be cheated.  It may be said that as long as this is acknowledged and
understood on all sides, no harm will be done.  It is equally fair for all.  When I was a child
there used to be certain games at which it was agreed in beginning either that there should
be cheating or that there should not.  It may be said that out there in the Western States,
men agree to play the cheating game; and that the cheating game has more of interest in it
than the other.  Unfortunately, however, they who agree to play this game on a large scale
do not keep outsiders altogether out of the playground.  Indeed, outsiders become very welcome
to them; and then it is not pleasant to hear the tone in which such outsiders speak of the
peculiarities of the sport to which they have been introduced.  When a beginner in trade finds
himself furnished with a barrel of wooden nutmegs, the joke is not so good to him as to the
experienced merchant who supplies him.  This dealing in wooden nutmegs, this selling of things
which do not exist, and buying of goods for which no price is ever to be given, is an institution
which is much honored in the West.  We call it swindling--and so do they.  But it seemed to
me that in the Western States the word hardly seemed to leave the same impress on the mind
that it does elsewhere.

On our return down the river we passed La Crosse, at which we had embarked, and went down as
far as Dubuque in Iowa.  On our way down we came to grief and broke one of our paddle-wheels
to pieces.  We had no special accident.  We struck against nothing above or below water.  But
the wheel went to pieces, and we laid to on the river side for the greater part of a day while
the necessary repairs were being made.  Delay in traveling is usually an annoyance, because
it causes the unsettlement of a settled purpose.  But the loss of the day did us no harm, and
our accident had happened at a very pretty spot.  I climbed up to the top of the nearest bluff,
and walked back till I came to the open country, and also went up and down the river banks,
visiting the cabins of two settlers who live there by supplying wood to the river steamers.
One of these was close to the spot at which we were lying; and yet though most of our passengers
came on shore, I was the only one who spoke to the inmates of the cabin.  These people must
live there almost in desolation from one year's end to another.  Once in a fortnight or so
they go up to a market town in their small boats, but beyond that they can have little intercourse
with their fellow-creatures. Nevertheless none of these dwellers by the river side came out
to speak to the men and women who were lounging about from eleven in the morning till four
in the afternoon; nor did one of the passengers, except myself, knock at the door or enter
the cabin, or exchange a word with those who lived there.

