Odo's guide, it appeared, was not privileged to conduct him through the state apartments of
the palace, and the little boy had now been four days under the ducal roof without catching
so much as a glimpse of his sovereign and cousin. The very next morning, however, Vanna swept
him from his trundle-bed with the announcement that he was to be received by the Duke that
day, and that the tailor was now waiting to try on his court dress. He found his mother propped
against her pillows, drinking chocolate, feeding her pet monkey and giving agitated directions
to the maidservants on their knees before the open carriage-trunks. Her excellency informed
Odo that she had that moment received an express from his grandfather, the old Marquess di
Donnaz; that they were to start next morning for the castle of Donnaz, and that he was to be
presented to the Duke as soon as his Highness had risen from dinner. A plump purse lay on the
coverlet, and her countenance wore an air of kindness and animation which, together with the
prospect of wearing a court dress and travelling to his grandfather's castle in the mountains,
so worked on Odo's spirits that, forgetting the abate's instructions, he sprang to her with
an eager caress.

"Child, child," was her only rebuke; and she added, with a tap on his cheek: "It is lucky I
shall have a sword to protect me."

Long before the hour Odo was buttoned into his embroidered coat and waistcoat. He would have
on the sword at once, and when they sat down to dinner, though his mother pressed him to eat
with more concern than she had before shown, it went hard with him to put his weapon aside,
and he cast longing eyes at the corner where it lay. At length a chamberlain summoned them
and they set out down the corridors, attended by two servants. Odo held his head high, with
one hand leading Donna Laura (for he would not appear to be led by her) while the other fingered
his sword. The deformed beggars who always lurked about the great staircase fawned on them
as they passed, and on a landing they crossed the humpbacked boy, who grinned mockingly at
Odo; but the latter, with his chin up, would not so much as glance at him.

A master of ceremonies in short black cloak and gold chain received them in the antechamber
of the Duchess's apartments, where the court played lansquenet after dinner; the doors of her
Highness's closet were thrown open, and Odo, now glad enough to cling to his mother's hand,
found himself in a tall room, with gods and goddesses in the clouds overhead and personages
as supra-terrestrial seated in gilt armchairs about a smoking brazier. Before one of these,
to whom Donna Laura swept successive curtsies in advancing, the frightened cavaliere found
himself dragged with his sword between his legs. He ducked his head like the old drake diving
for worms in the puddle at the farm, and when at last he dared look up, it was to see an odd
sallow face, half-smothered in an immense wig, bowing back at him with infinite ceremony--and
Odo's heart sank to think that this was his sovereign.

The Duke was in fact a sickly narrow-faced young man with thick obstinate lips and a slight
lameness that made his walk ungainly; but though no way resembling the ermine-cloaked king
of the chapel at Pontesordo, he yet knew how to put on a certain majesty with his state wig
and his orders. As for the newly married Duchess, who sat at the other end of the cabinet caressing
a toy spaniel, she was scant fourteen and looked a mere child in her great hoop and jewelled
stomacher. Her wonderful fair hair, drawn over a cushion and lightly powdered, was twisted
with pearls and roses, and her cheeks excessively rouged, in the French fashion; so that as
she arose on the approach of the visitors she looked to Odo for all the world like the wooden
Virgin hung with votive offerings in the parish church at Pontesordo. Though they were but
three months married the Duke, it was rumoured, was never with her, preferring the company
of the young Marquess of Cerveno, his cousin and heir-presumptive, a pale boy scented with
musk and painted like a comedian, whom his Highness would never suffer away from him and who
now leaned with an impertinent air against the back of the ducal armchair.

On the other side of the brazier sat the dowager Duchess, the Duke's grandmother, an old lady
so high and forbidding of aspect that Odo cast but one look at her face, which was yellow and
wrinkled as a medlar, and surmounted, in the Spanish style, with black veils and a high coif.
What these alarming personages said and did, the child could never recall; nor were his own
actions clear to him, except for a furtive caress that he remembered giving the spaniel as
he kissed the Duchess's hand; whereupon her Highness snatched up the pampered animal and walked
away with a pout of anger. Odo noticed that her angry look followed him as he and Donna Laura
withdrew; but the next moment he heard the Duke's voice and saw his Highness limping after them.

"You must have a furred cloak for your journey, cousin," said he awkwardly, pressing something
in the hand of Odo's mother, who broke into fresh compliments and curtsies, while the Duke,
with a finger on his thick lip, withdrew hastily into the closet.

The next morning early they set out on their journey. There had been frost in the night and
a cold sun sparkled on the palace windows and on the marble church-fronts as their carriage
lumbered through the streets, now full of noise and animation. It was Odo's first glimpse of
the town by daylight, and he clapped his hands with delight at sight of the people picking
their way across the reeking gutters, the asses laden with milk and vegetables, the servant-girls
bargaining at the provision-stalls, the shop-keepers' wives going to mass in pattens and hoods,
with scaldini in their muffs, the dark recessed openings in the palace basements, where fruit
sellers, wine-merchants and coppersmiths displayed their wares, the pedlars hawking books and
toys, and here and there a gentleman in a sedan chair returning flushed and disordered from
a night at bassett or faro. The travelling-carriage was escorted by half-a-dozen of the Duke's
troopers and Don Lelio rode at the door followed by two grooms. He wore a furred coat and boots,
and never, to Odo, had he appeared more proud and splendid; but Donna Laura had hardly a word
for him, and he rode with the set air of a man who acquits himself of a troublesome duty.

Outside the gates the spectacle seemed tame in comparison; for the road bent toward Pontesordo,
and Odo was familiar enough with the look of the bare fields, set here and there with oak-copses
to which the leaves still clung. As the carriage skirted the marsh his mother raised the windows,
exclaiming that they must not expose themselves to the pestilent air; and though Odo was not
yet addicted to general reflections, he could not but wonder that she should display such dread
of an atmosphere she had let him breathe since his birth. He knew of course that the sunset
vapours on the marsh were unhealthy: everybody on the farm had a touch of the ague, and it
was a saying in the village that no one lived at Pontesordo who could buy an ass to carry him
away; but that Donna Laura, in skirting the place on a clear morning of frost, should show
such fear of infection, gave a sinister emphasis to the ill-repute of the region.

The thought, he knew not why, turned his mind to Momola, who often on damp evenings sat shaking
and burning in the kitchen corner. He reflected with a pang that he might never see her again,
and leaning forward he strained his eyes for a glimpse of Pontesordo. They were passing through
a patch of oaks; but where these ended the country opened, and beyond a belt of osiers and
the mottled faded stretches of the marsh the keep stood up like a beckoning finger. Odo cried
out as though in answer to its call; but that moment the road turned a knoll and bent across
rising ground toward an unfamiliar region.

"Thank God!" cried his mother, lowering the window, "we're rid of that poison and can breath
the air."

As the keep vanished Odo reproached himself for not having begged a pair of shoes for Momola.
He had felt very sorry for her since the hunchback had spoken so strangely of life at the foundling
hospital; and he had a sudden vision of her bare feet, pinched with cold and cut with the pebbles
of the yard, perpetually running across the damp stone floors, with Filomena crying after her:
"Hasten then, child of iniquity! You are slower than a day without bread!" He had almost resolved
to speak of the foundling to his mother, who still seemed in a condescending humour; but his
attention was unexpectedly distracted by a troop of Egyptians, who came along the road leading
a dancing bear; and hardly had these passed when the chariot of an itinerant dentist engaged
him. The whole way, indeed, was alive with such surprises; and at Valsecca, where they dined,
they found the yard of the inn crowded with the sumpter-mules and servants of a cardinal travelling
to Rome, who was to lie there that night and whose bedstead and saucepans had preceded him.

Here, after dinner, Don Lelio took leave of Odo's mother, with small show of regret on either
side; the lady high and sarcastic, the gentleman sullen and polite; and both, as it seemed,
easier when the business was despatched and the Count's foot in the stirrup. He had so far
taken little notice of Odo, but he now bent from the saddle and tapped the boy's cheek, saying
in his cold way: "In a few years I shall see you at court;" and with that rode away toward Pianura.

1.4.

Lying that night at Pavia, the travellers set forward next morning for the city of Vercelli.
The road, though it ran for the most part through flat mulberry orchards and rice-fields reflecting
the pale blue sky in their sodden channels, would yet have appeared diverting enough to Odo,
had his mother been in the mood to reply to his questions; for whether their carriage overtook
a party of strolling jugglers, travelling in a roofed-in waggon, with the younger children
of the company running alongside in threadbare tights and trunkhose decked with tinsel; or
whether they drove through a village market-place, where yellow earthen crocks and gaudy Indian
cottons, brass pails and braziers and platters of bluish pewter, filled the stalls with a medley
of colour--at every turn was something that excited the boy's wonder; but Donna Laura, who
had fallen into a depression of spirits, lamenting the cold, her misfortunes and the discomfort
of the journey, was at no more pains than the abate to satisfy the promptings of his curiosity.

Odo had indeed met but one person who cared to listen to him, and that was the strange hunchback
who had called himself Brutus. Remembering how entertainingly this odd guide had explained
all the wonders of the ducal grounds, Odo began to regret that he had not asked his mother
to let him have Brutus for a body-servant. Meanwhile no one attended to his questions and the
hours were beginning to seem long when, on the third day, they set out from Vercelli toward
the hills. The cold increased as they rose; and Odo, though he had often wished to see the
mountains, was yet dismayed at the gloomy and menacing aspect of the region on which they were
entering. Leafless woods, prodigious boulders and white torrents foaming and roaring seemed
a poor exchange for the pleasantly-ordered gardens of Pianura. Here were no violets and cowslips
in bloom; hardly a green blade pierced the sodden roadside, and snowdrifts lingered in the
shaded hollows.

Donna Laura's loudly expressed fear of robbers seemed to increase the loneliness of the way,
which now traversed tracts of naked moorland, now plunged again into forest, with no sign of
habitation but here and there a cowherd's hut under the trees or a chapel standing apart on
some grassy eminence. When night fell the waters grew louder, a stinging wind swept the woods,
and the carriage, staggering from rut to rut, seemed every moment about to land them in some
invisible ravine. Fear and cold at last benumbed the little boy, and when he woke he was being
lifted from his seat and torches were flashing on a high escutcheoned doorway set in battlemented
walls. He was carried into a hall lit with smoky oil-lamps and hung with armour and torn banners.

Here, among a group of rough-looking servants, a tall old man in a nightcap and furred gown
was giving orders in a loud passionate voice. This personage, who was of a choleric complexion,
with a face like mottled red marble, seized Odo by the wrist and led him up a flight of stairs
so worn and slippery that he tripped at every step; thence down a corridor and into a gloomy
apartment where three ladies shivered about a table set with candles. Bidden by the old gentleman
to salute his grandmother and great-aunts, Odo bowed over three wrinkled hands, one fat and
soft as a toad's stomach, the others yellow and dry as lemon-skins. His mother embraced the
ladies in the same humble manner, and the Marquess, first furiously calling for supper, thrust
Odo down on a stool in the ingle.

From this point of observation the child, now vividly awake, noted the hangings of faded tapestry
that heaved in the draught, the ceiling of beams and the stone floor strewn with rushes. The
candle-light flickering on the faces of his aged relatives showed his grandmother to be a pale
heavy-cheeked person with little watchful black eyes which she dropped at her husband's approach;
while the two great-aunts, seated side by side in high-backed chairs with their feet on braziers,
reminded Odo of the narrow elongated saints squeezed into the niches of a church-door. The
old Marchioness wore the high coif and veil of the previous century; the aunts, who, as Odo
afterwards learned, were canonesses of a noble order, were habited in a semi-conventual dress,
with crosses hanging on their bosoms; and none spoke but when the Marquess addressed them.

Their timidity appeared to infect Odo's mother, who, from her habitual volubility of temper,
sank to a mood of like submissiveness. A supper of venison and goat's cheese was not designed
to restore her spirits, and when at length she and Odo had withdrawn to their cavernous bedchamber,
she flung herself weeping on the bed and declared she must die if she remained long in this prison.

Falling asleep under such influences, it was the more wonderful to Odo to wake with the sun
on his counterpane, a sweet noise of streams through the casement and the joyous barking of
hounds in the castle court. From the window-seat he looked out on a scene extraordinarily novel
to his lowland eyes. The chamber commanded the wooded steep below the castle, with a stream
looping its base; beyond, the pastures sloped pleasantly under walnut trees, with here and
there a clearing ploughed for the spring crops and a sunny ledge or two planted with vines.
Above this pastoral landscape, bare crags upheld a snowpeak; and, as if to lend a human interest
to the scene, the old Marquess, his flintlock on his shoulder, his dogs and beaters at his
heels, now rode across the valley.

Wonder succeeded to wonder that first morning; for there was the castle to be seen, with the
kennels and stables roughly kept, but full of dogs and horses; and Odo, in the Marquess's absence,
was left free to visit every nook of his new home. Pontesordo, though perhaps as ancient as
Donnaz, was but a fortified manor in the plain; but here was the turreted border castle, bristling
at the head of the gorge like the fangs in a boar's throat: its walls overhung by machicolations,
its portcullis still dropped at nightfall, and the loud stream forming a natural moat at its
base. Through the desert spaces of this great structure Odo wandered at will, losing himself
in its network of bare chambers, some now put to domestic uses, with smoked meats hanging from
the rafters, cheeses ranged on shelves and farmer's implements stacked on the floor; others
abandoned to bats and spiders, with slit-like openings choked by a growth of wild cherries,
and little animals scurrying into their holes as Odo opened the unused doors. At the next turn
he mounted by a winding stair to the platform behind the battlements, whence he could look
down on the inner court, where horses were being groomed, dogs fed, harnesses mended, and platters
of smoking food carried from the kitchen to the pantry; or, leaning another way, discovered,
between the cliff and the rampart a tiny walled garden with fruit-trees and a sundial.

The ladies kept to themselves in a corner of the castle, where the rooms were hung with tapestry
and a few straight-backed chairs stood about the hearth; but even here no fires were suffered
till nightfall, nor was there so much as a carpet in the castle. Odo's grandmother, the old
Marchioness, a heavy woman who would doubtless have enjoyed her ease in a cushioned seat, was
afoot all day attending to her household; for besides the dairy and the bakehouse and the stillroom
where fruits were stewed and pastes prepared, there was the great spinning-room full of distaffs
and looms, where the women spun and wove all the linen used in the castle and the coarse stuffs
worn by its inmates; with workshops for the cobbler and tailor who clothed and shod the Marquess
and his household. All these the Marchioness must visit, and attend to her devotions between;
the ladies being governed by a dark-faced priest, their chaplain and director, who kept them
perpetually running along the cold stone corridors to the chapel in a distant wing, where they
knelt without so much as a brazier to warm them or a cushion to their knees. As to the chapel,
though larger and loftier than that of Pontesordo, with a fine carved and painted tabernacle
and many silver candlesticks, it seemed to Odo, by reason of its bare walls, much less beautiful
than that deserted oratory; nor did he, amid all the novelty of his surroundings, cease to
regret the companionship of his familiar images.

His delight was the greater, therefore, when, exploring a part of the castle now quite abandoned,
he came one day on a vaulted chamber used as a kind of granary, where, under layers of dirt
and cobwebs, lovely countenances flowered from the walls. The scenes depicted differed indeed
from those of Pontesordo, being less animated and homely and more difficult for a child to
interpret; for here were naked laurel-crowned knights on prancing horses, nimble goat-faced
creatures grouped in adoration round a smoking altar and youths piping to saffron-haired damsels
on grass-banks set with poplars. The very strangeness of the fable set forth perhaps engaged
the child's fancy; or the benignant mildness of the countenances, so unlike the eager individual
faces of the earlier artist; for he returned again and again to gaze unweariedly on the inhabitants
of that tranquil grassy world, studying every inch of the walls and with much awe and fruitless
speculation deciphering on the hem of a floating drapery the inscription: Bernardinus Lovinus
pinxit.

His impatience to know more of the history of these paintings led him to question an old man,
half house-servant, half huntsman, now too infirm for service and often to be found sunning
himself in the court with an old hound's chin on his knee. The old man, whose name was Bruno,
told him the room in question had been painted for the Marquess Gualberto di Donnaz, who had
fought under the Duke of Milan hundreds of years before: a splendid and hospitable noble, patron
of learning and the arts, who had brought the great Milanese painter to Donnaz and kept him
there a whole summer adorning the banqueting-room. "But I advise you, little master," Bruno
added, "not to talk too loudly of your discovery; for we live in changed days, do you see,
and it seems those are pagan sorcerers and witches painted on the wall, and because of that,
and their nakedness, the chaplain has forbidden all the young boys and wenches about the place
to set foot there; and the Marchioness herself, I'm told, doesn't enter without leave."

This was the more puzzling to Odo that he had seen so many naked pagans, in colours and marble,
at his cousin's palace of Pianura, where they were praised as the chief ornament of that sumptuous
fabric; but he kept Bruno's warning in mind and so timed his visits that they escaped the chaplain's
observation. Whether this touch of mystery added charm to the paintings; or whether there was
already forming in him what afterward became an instinctive resistance to many of the dictates
of his age; certain it is that, even after he had been privileged to admire the stupendous
works of the Caracci at Parma and of the immortal Giulio Romano at Mantua, Odo's fancy always
turned with peculiar fondness to the clear-limbed youths moving in that world of untroubled beauty.

Odo, the day after his arrival at Donnaz, learned that the chaplain was to be his governor;
and he was not long in discovering that the system of that ecclesiastic bore no resemblance
to the desultory methods of his former pedagogue. It was not that Don Gervaso was a man of
superior acquirements: in writing, ciphering and the rudiments of Latin he seemed little likely
to carry Odo farther than the other; but in religious instruction he suffered no negligence
or inattention. His piety was of a stamp so different from the abate's that it vivified the
theological abstractions over which Odo had formerly languished, infusing a passionate meaning
into the formulas of the textbooks. His discourse breathed the same spirit, and had his religion
been warmed by imagination or tempered by charity the child had been a ductile substance in
his hands; but the shadow of the Council of Trent still hung over the Church in Savoy, making
its approach almost as sombre and forbidding as that of the Calvinist heresy. As it was, the
fascination that drew Odo to the divine teachings was counteracted by a depressing awe: he
trembled in God's presence almost as much as in his grandfather's, and with the same despair
of discovering what course of action was most likely to call down the impending wrath. The
beauty of the Church's offices, now for the first time revealed to him in the well-ordered
services of the chapel, was doubly moving in contrast with the rude life at Donnaz; but his
confessions tortured him and the penances which the chaplain inflicted abased without reforming
his spirit.

Next to the mass, the books Don Gervaso lent him were his chief pleasure: the Lives of the
Saints, Cardinal Bellarmine's Fables and The Mirror of true Penitence. The Lives of the Saints
fed at once his imagination and his heart, and over the story of Saint Francis, now first made
known to him, he trembled with delicious sympathy. The longing to found a hermitage like the
Portiuncula among the savage rocks of Donnaz, and live there in gentle communion with plants
and animals, alternated in him with the martial ambition to ride forth against the Church's
enemies, as his ancestors had ridden against the bloody and pestilent Waldenses; but whether
his piety took the passive or the aggressive form, it always shrank from the subtleties of
doctrine. To live like the saints, rather than to reason like the fathers, was his ideal of
Christian conduct; if indeed a vague pity for suffering creatures and animals was not the source
of his monastic yearnings, and a desire to see strange countries the secret of his zeal against
the infidel.

The chaplain, though reproving his lukewarmness in matters of dogma, could not but commend
his devotion to the saints; and one day his grandmother, to reward him for some act of piety,
informed him with tears of joy that he was destined for holy orders, and that she had good
hopes of living to see him a bishop. This news had hardly the intended effect; for Odo's dream
was of the saint's halo rather than the bishop's mitre; and throwing himself on his knees before
the old Marquess, who was present, he besought that he might be allowed to join the Franciscan
order. The Marquess at this flew into so furious a rage, cursing the meddlesomeness of women
and the chaplain's bigotry, that the ladies burst into tears and Odo's swelling zeal turned
small. There was indeed but one person in the castle who seemed not to regard its master's
violences, and that was the dark-faced chaplain, who, when the Marquess had paused out of breath,
tranquilly returned that nothing could make him repent of having brought a soul to Christ,
and that, as to the cavaliere Odo, if his maker designed him for a religious, the Pope himself
could not cross his vocation.

"Ay, ay! vocation," snarled the Marquess. "You and the women here shut the child up between
you and stuff his ears full of monkish stories and miracles and the Lord knows what, and then
talk of the simpleton's vocation. His vocation, nom de Dieu, is to be an abbot first, and then
a monsignore, and then a bishop, if he can--and to the devil with your cowls and cloisters!"
And he gave orders that Odo should hunt with him next morning.

The chaplain smiled. "Hubert was a huntsman," said he, "and yet he died a saint."

From that time forth the old Marquess kept Odo oftener at his side, making his grandson ride
with him about his estates and on such hunting-parties as were not beyond the boy's strength.
The domain of Donnaz included many a mile of vine and forest, over which, till the fifteenth
century, its lords had ruled as sovereign Marquesses. They still retained a part of their feudal
privileges, and Odo's grandfather, tenacious of these dwindling rights, was for ever engaged
in vain contests with his peasantry. To see these poor creatures cursed and brow-beaten, their
least offences punished, their few claims disputed, must have turned Odo's fear of his grandfather
to hatred, had he not observed that the old man gave with one hand what he took with the other,
so that, in his dealings with his people, he resembled one of those torrents which now devastate
and now enrich their banks. The Marquess, in fact, while he held obstinately to his fishing
rights, prosecuted poachers, enforced the corvee and took toll at every ford, yet laboured
to improve his lands, exterminated the wild beasts that preyed on them, helped his peasants
in sickness, nourished them in old age and governed them with a paternal tyranny doubtless
less insufferable than the negligence of the great land-owners who lived at court.

To Odo, however, these rides among the tenantry were less agreeable than the hunting-expeditions
which carried them up the mountain in the solitude of morning. Here the wild freshness of the
scene and the exhilaration of pursuit roused the fighting strain in the boy's blood, and so
stirred his memory with tales of prowess that sometimes, as they climbed the stony defiles
in the clear shadow before sunrise, he fancied himself riding forth to exterminate the Waldenses
who, according to the chaplain, still lurked like basilisks and dragons in the recesses of
the mountains. Certain it is that his rides with the old Marquess, if they inflamed his zeal
against heresy, cooled the ardour of his monastic vocation; and if he pondered on his future,
it was to reflect that doubtless he would some day be a bishop, and that bishops were territorial
lords, we might hunt the wolf and boar in their own domains.

1.5.

Reluctantly, every year about the Epiphany, the old Marquess rode down from Donnaz to spend
two months in Turin. It was a service exacted by King Charles Emanuel, who viewed with a jealous
eye those of his nobles inclined to absent themselves from court and rewarded their presence
with privileges and preferments. At the same time the two canonesses descended to their abbey
in the plain, and thus with the closing in of winter the old Marchioness, Odo and his mother
were left alone in the castle.

To the Marchioness this was an agreeable period of spiritual compunction and bodily repose;
but to Donna Laura a season of despair. The poor lady, who had been early removed from the
rough life at Donnaz to the luxurious court of Pianura, and was yet in the fulness of youth
and vivacity, could not resign herself to an existence no better, as she declared, than that
of any herdsman's wife upon the mountains. Here was neither music nor cards, scandal nor love-making;
no news of the fashions, no visits from silk-mercers or jewellers, no Monsu to curl her hair
and tempt her with new lotions, or so much as a strolling soothsayer or juggler to lighten
the dullness of the long afternoons. The only visitors to the castle were the mendicant friars
drawn thither by the Marchioness's pious repute; and though Donna Laura disdained not to call
these to her chamber and question them for news, yet their country-side scandals were no more
to her fancy than the two-penny wares of the chapmen who unpacked their baubles on the kitchen
hearth.

She pined for some word of Pianura; but when a young abate, who had touched there on his way
from Tuscany, called for a night at the castle to pay his duty to Don Gervaso, the word he
brought with him of the birth of an heir to the duchy was so little to Donna Laura's humour
that she sprang up from the supper-table, and crying out to the astonished Odo, "Ah, now you
are for the Church indeed," withdrew in disorder to her chamber. The abate, who ascribed her
commotion to a sudden seizure, continued to retail the news of Pianura, and Odo, listening
with his elders, learned that Count Lelio Trescorre had been appointed Master of the Horse,
to the indignation of the Bishop, who desired the place for his nephew, Don Serafino; that
the Duke and Duchess were never together; that the Duchess was suspected of being in secret
correspondence with the Austrians, and that the young Marquess of Cerveno was gone to the baths
of Lucca to recover from an attack of tertian fever contracted the previous autumn at the Duke's
hunting-lodge near Pontesordo. Odo listened for some mention of his humpbacked friend, or of
Momola the foundling; but the abate's talk kept a higher level and no one less than a cavaliere
figured on his lips. He was the only visitor of quality who came that winter to Donnaz, and
after his departure a fixed gloom settled on Donna Laura's spirits. Dusk at that season fell
early in the gorge, fierce winds blew off the glaciers, and Donna Laura sat shivering and lamenting
on one side of the hearth, while the old Marchioness, on the other, strained her eyes over
an embroidery in which the pattern repeated itself like the invocations of a litany, and Don
Gervaso, near the smoking oil-lamp, read aloud from the Glories of Mary or the Way of Perfection
of Saint Theresa.

On such evenings Odo, stealing from the tapestry parlour, would seek out Bruno, who sat by
the kitchen hearth with the old hound's nose at his feet. The kitchen, indeed, on winter nights,
was the pleasantest place in the castle. The fire-light from its great stone chimney shone
on the strings of maize and bunches of dried vegetables that hung from the roof and on the
copper kettles and saucepans ranged along the wall. The wind raged against the shutters of
the unglazed windows, and the maid-servants, distaff in hand, crowded closer to the blaze,
listening to the songs of some wandering fiddler or to the stories of a ruddy-nosed Capuchin
monk who was being regaled, by the steward's orders, on a supper of tripe and mulled wine.
The Capuchin's tales, told in the Piedmontese jargon, and seasoned with strange allusions and
boisterous laughter, were of little interest to Odo, who would creep into the ingle beside
Bruno and beg for some story of his ancestors. The old man was never weary of rehearsing the
feats and gestures of the lords of Donnaz, and Odo heard again and again how they had fought
the savage Switzers north of the Alps and the Dauphin's men in the west; how they had marched
with Savoy against Montferrat and with France against the Republic of Genoa. Better still he
liked to hear of the Marquess Gualberto, who had been the Duke of Milan's ally and had brought
home the great Milanese painter to adorn his banqueting-room at Donnaz. The lords of Donnaz
had never been noted for learning, and Odo's grandfather was fond of declaring that a nobleman
need not be a scholar; but the great Marquess Gualberto, if himself unlettered, had been the
patron of poets and painters and had kept learned clerks to write down the annals of his house
on parchment painted by the monks. These annals were locked in the archives, under Don Gervaso's
care; but Odo learned from the old servant that some of the great Marquess's books had lain
for years on an upper shelf in the vestry off the chapel; and here one day, with Bruno's aid,
the little boy dislodged from a corner behind the missals and altar-books certain sheepskin
volumes clasped in blackened silver. The comeliest of these, which bore on their title-page
a dolphin curled about an anchor, were printed in unknown characters; but on opening the smaller
volumes Odo felt the same joyous catching of the breath as when he had stepped out on the garden-terrace
at Pianura. For here indeed were gates leading to a land of delectation: the country of the
giant Morgante, the enchanted island of Avillion, the court of the Soldan and the King's palace
at Camelot.

In this region Odo spent many blissful hours. His fancy ranged in the wake of heroes and adventurers
who, for all he knew, might still be feasting and fighting north of the Alps, or might any
day with a blast of their magic horns summon the porter to the gates of Donnaz. Foremost among
them, a figure towering above even Rinaldo, Arthur and the Emperor Frederic, was that Conrad,
father of Conradin, whose sayings are set down in the old story-book of the Cento Novelle,
"the flower of gentle speech." There was one tale of King Conrad that the boy never forgot:
how the King, in his youth, had always about him a company of twelve lads of his own age; how
when Conrad did wrong, his governors, instead of punishing him, beat his twelve companions;
and how, on the young King's asking what the lads were being punished for, the pedagogues replied:

"For your Majesty's offences."

"And why do you punish my companions instead of me?"

"Because you are our lord and master," he was told.

At this the King fell to thinking, and thereafter, it is said, in pity for those who must suffer
in his stead he set close watch on himself, lest his sinning should work harm to others. This
was the story of King Conrad; and much as Odo loved the clash of arms and joyous feats of paladins
rescuing fair maids in battle, yet Conrad's seemed to him, even then, a braver deed than these.

In March of the second year the old Marquess, returning from Turin, was accompanied, to the
surprise of all, by the fantastical figure of an elderly gentleman in the richest travelling
dress, with one of the new French toupets, a thin wrinkled painted face, and emitting with
every movement a prodigious odour of millefleurs. This visitor, who was attended by his French
barber and two or three liveried servants, the Marquess introduced as the lord of Valdu, a
neighbouring seigneurie of no great account. Though his lands marched with the Marquess's,
it was years since the Count had visited Donnaz, being one of the King's chamberlains and always
in attendance on his Majesty; and it was amazing to see with what smirks and grimaces, and
ejaculations in Piedmontese French, he complimented the Marchioness on her appearance, and
exclaimed at the magnificence of the castle, which must doubtless have appeared to him little
better than a cattle-grange. His talk was unintelligible to Odo, but there was no mistaking
the nature of the glances he fixed on Donna Laura, who, having fled to her room on his approach,
presently descended in a ravishing new sacque, with an air of extreme surprise, and her hair
curled (as Odo afterward learned) by the Count's own barber.

Odo had never seen his mother look handsomer. She sparkled at the Count's compliments, embraced
her father, playfully readjusted her mother's coif, and in the prettiest way made their excuses
to the Count for the cold draughts and bare floors of the castle. "For having lived at court
myself," said she, "I know to what your excellency is accustomed, and can the better value
your condescension in exposing yourself, at this rigorous season, to the hardships of our mountain-top."

The Marquess at this began to look black, but seeing the Count's pleasure in the compliment,
contented himself with calling out for dinner, which, said he, with all respect to their visitor,
would stay his stomach better than the French kick-shaws at his Majesty's table. Whether the
Count was of the same mind, it was impossible to say, though Odo could not help observing that
the stewed venison and spiced boar's flesh seemed to present certain obstacles either to his
jaws or his palate, and that his appetite lingered on the fried chicken-livers and tunny-fish
in oil; but he cast such looks at Donna Laura as seemed to declare that for her sake he would
willingly have risked his teeth on the very cobblestones of the court. Knowing how she pined
for company, Odo was not surprised at his mother's complaisance; yet wondered to see the smile
with which she presently received the Count's half-bantering disparagement of Pianura. For
the duchy, by his showing, was a place of small consequence, an asylum of superannuated fashions;
whereas no Frenchman of quality ever visited Turin without exclaiming on its resemblance to
Paris, and vowing that none who had the entree of Stupinigi need cross the Alps to see Versailles.
As to the Marquess's depriving the court of Donna Laura's presence, their guest protested against
it as an act of overt disloyalty to the sovereign; and what most surprised Odo, who had often
heard his grandfather declaim against the Count as a cheap jackanapes that hung about the court
for what he could make at play, was the indulgence with which the Marquess received his visitor's
sallies. Father and daughter in fact vied in amenities to the Count. The fire was kept alight
all day in his rooms, his Monsu waited on with singular civility by the steward, and Donna
Laura's own woman sent down by her mistress to prepare his morning chocolate.

Next day it was agreed the gentlemen should ride to Valdu; but its lord being as stiff-jointed
as a marionette, Donna Laura, with charming tact, begged to be of the party, and thus enabled
him to attend her in her litter. The Marquess thereupon called on Odo to ride with him; and
setting forth across the mountain they descended by a long defile to the half-ruined village
of Valdu. Here, for the first time, Odo saw the spectacle of a neglected estate, its last penny
wrung from it for the absent master's pleasure by a bailiff who was expected to extract his
pay from the sale of clandestine concessions to the tenants. Riding beside the Marquess, who
swore under his breath at the ravages of the undyked stream and the sight of good arable land
run wild and choked with underbrush, the little boy obtained a precocious insight into the
evils of a system which had long outlived its purpose, and the idea of feudalism was ever afterward
embodied for him in his glimpse of the peasants of Valdu looking up sullenly from their work
as their suzerain and protector thrust an unfamiliar painted smile between the curtains of
his litter.

What his grandfather thought of Valdu (to which the Count on the way home referred with smirking
apologies as the mountain-lair of his barbarous ancestors) was patent enough even to Odo's
undeveloped perceptions; but it would have required a more experienced understanding to detect
the motive that led the Marquess, scarce two days after their visit, to accord his daughter's
hand to the Count. Odo felt a shock of dismay on learning that his beautiful mother was to
become the property of an old gentleman whom he guessed to be of his grandfather's age, and
whose enamoured grimaces recalled the antics of her favourite monkey, and the boy's face reflected
the blush of embarrassment with which Donna Laura imparted the news; but the children of that
day were trained to a passive acquiescence, and had she informed him that she was to be chained
in the keep on bread and water, Odo would have accepted the fact with equal philosophy. Three
weeks afterward his mother and the old Count were married in the chapel of Donnaz, and Donna
Laura, with many tears and embraces, set out for Turin, taking her monkey but leaving her son
behind. It was not till later that Odo learned of the social usage which compelled young widows
to choose between remarriage and the cloister; and his subsequent views were unconsciously
tinged by the remembrance of his mother's melancholy bridal.

Her departure left no traces but were speedily repaired by the coming of spring. The sun growing
warmer, and the close season putting an end to the Marquess's hunting, it was now Odo's chief
pleasure to carry his books to the walled garden between the castle and the southern face of
the cliff. This small enclosure, probably a survival of medieval horticulture, had along the
upper ledge of its wall a grass walk commanding the flow of the stream, and an angle turret
that turned one slit to the valley, the other to the garden lying below like a tranquil well
of scent and brightness: its box trees clipped to the shape of peacocks and lions, its clove
pinks and simples set in a border of thrift, and a pear tree basking on its sunny wall. These
pleasant spaces, which Odo had to himself save when the canonesses walked there to recite their
rosary, he peopled with the knights and ladies of the novelle, and the fantastic beings of
Pulci's epic: there walked the Fay Morgana, Regulus the loyal knight, the giant Morgante, Trajan
the just Emperor and the proud figure of King Conrad; so that, escaping thither from the after-dinner
dullness of the tapestry parlour, the boy seemed to pass from the most oppressive solitude
to a world of warmth and fellowship.

1.6.

Odo, who, like all neglected children, was quick to note in the demeanour of his elders any
hint of a change in his own condition, had been keenly conscious of the effect produced at
Donnaz by the news of the Duchess of Pianura's deliverance. Guided perhaps by his mother's
exclamation, he noticed an added zeal in Don Gervaso's teachings and an unction in the manner
of his aunts and grandmother, who embraced him as though they were handling a relic; while
the old Marquess, though he took his grandson seldomer on his rides, would sit staring at him
with a frowning tenderness that once found vent in the growl--"Morbleu, but he's too good for
the tonsure!" All this made it clear to Odo that he was indeed meant for the Church, and he
learned without surprise that the following spring he was to be sent to the seminary at Asti.

With a view to prepare him for this change, the canonesses suggested his attending them that
year on their annual pilgrimage to the sanctuary of Oropa. Thither, for every feast of the
Assumption, these pious ladies travelled in their litter; and Odo had heard from them many
tales of the miraculous Black Virgin who drew thousands to her shrine among the mountains.
They set forth in August, two days before the feast, ascending through chestnut groves to the
region of bare rocks; thence downward across torrents hung with white acacia and along park-like
grassy levels deep in shade. The lively air, the murmur of verdure, the perfume of mown grass
in the meadows and the sweet call of the cuckoos from every thicket made an enchantment of
the way; but Odo's pleasure redoubled when, gaining the high-road to Oropa, they mingled with
the long train of devotees ascending from the plain. Here were pilgrims of every condition,
from the noble lady of Turin or Asti (for it was the favourite pilgrimage of the Sardinian
court), attended by her physician and her cicisbeo, to the half-naked goatherd of Val Sesia
or Salluzzo; the cheerful farmers of the Milanese, with their wives, in silver necklaces and
hairpins, riding pillion on plump white asses; sick persons travelling in closed litters or
carried on hand-stretchers; crippled beggars obtruding their deformities; confraternities of
hooded penitents, Franciscans, Capuchins and Poor Clares in dusty companies; jugglers, pedlars,
Egyptians and sellers of drugs and amulets. From among these, as the canonesses' litter jogged
along, an odd figure advanced toward Odo, who had obtained leave to do the last mile of the
journey on foot. This was a plump abate in tattered ecclesiastical dress, his shoes white as
a miller's and the perspiration streaking his face as he laboured along in the dust. He accosted
Odo in a soft shrill voice, begging leave to walk beside the young cavaliere, whom he had more
than once had the honour of seeing at Pianura; and, in reply to the boy's surprised glance,
added, with a swelling of the chest and an absurd gesture of self-introduction, "But perhaps
the cavaliere is not too young to have heard of the illustrious Cantapresto, late primo soprano
of the ducal theatre of Pianura?"

Odo being obliged to avow his ignorance, the fat creature mopped his brow and continued with
a gasp--"Ah, your excellency, what is fame? From glory to obscurity is no farther than from
one milestone to another! Not eight years ago, cavaliere, I was followed through the streets
of Pianura by a greater crowd than the Duke ever drew after him! But what then? The voice goes--it
lasts no longer than the bloom of a flower--and with it goes everything: fortune, credit, consideration,
friends and parasites! Not eight years ago, sir--would you believe me?--I was supping nightly
in private with the Bishop, who had nearly quarrelled with his late Highness for carrying me
off by force one evening to his casino; I was heaped with dignities and favours; all the poets
in the town composed sonnets in my honour; the Marquess of Trescorre fought a duel about me
with the Bishop's nephew, Don Serafino; I attended his lordship to Rome; I spent the villeggiatura
at his villa, where I sat at play with the highest nobles in the land; yet when my voice went,
cavaliere, it was on my knees I had to beg of my heartless patron the paltry favour of the
minor orders!" Tears were running down the abate's cheeks, and he paused to wipe them with
a corner of tattered bands.

Though Odo had been bred in an abhorrence of the theatre, the strange creature's aspect so
pricked his compassion that he asked him what he was now engaged in; at which Cantapresto piteously
cried, "Alas, what am I not engaged in, if the occasion offers? For whatever a man's habit,
he will not wear it long if it cover an empty belly; and he that respects his calling must
find food enough to continue in it. But as for me, sir, I have put a hand to every trade, from
composing scenarios for the ducal company of Pianura, to writing satirical sonnets for noblemen
that desire to pass for wits. I've a pretty taste, too, in compiling almanacks, and when nothing
else served I have played the public scrivener at the street corner; nay, sir, necessity has
even driven me to hold the candle in one or two transactions I would not more actively have
mixed in; and it was to efface the remembrance of one of these--for my conscience is still
over-nice for my condition--that I set out on this laborious pilgrimage."

Much of this was unintelligible to Odo; but he was moved by any mention of Pianura, and in
the abate's first pause he risked the question--"Do you know the hump-backed boy Brutus?"

His companion stared and pursed his soft lips.

"Brutus?" says he. "Brutus? Is he about the Duke's person?"

"He lives in the palace," said Odo doubtfully.

The fat ecclesiastic clapped a hand to his thigh.

"Can it be your excellency has in mind the foundling boy Carlo Gamba? Does the jackanapes call
himself Brutus now? He was always full of his classical allusions! Why, sir, I think I know
him very well; he is even rumoured to be a brother of Don Lelio Trescorre's, and I believe
the Duke has lately given him to the Marquess of Cerveno, for I saw him not long since in the
Marquess's livery at Pontesordo."

"Pontesordo?" cried Odo. "It was there I lived."

"Did you indeed, cavaliere? But I think you will have been at the Duke's manor of that name;
and it was the hunting-lodge on the edge of the chase that I had in mind. The Marquess uses
it, I believe, as a kind of casino; though not without risk of a distemper. Indeed, there is
much wonder at his frequenting it, and 'tis said he does so against the Duke's wishes."

The name of Pontesordo had set Odo's memories humming like a hive of bees, and without heeding
his companion's allusions he asked--"And did you see the Momola?"

The other looked his perplexity.

"She's an Innocent too," Odo hastened to explain. "She is Filomena's servant at the farm."

The abate at this, standing still in the road, screwed up his eyelids and protruded a relishing
lip. "Eh, eh," said he, "the girl from the farm, you say?" And he gave a chuckle. "You've an
eye, cavaliere, you've an eye," he cried, his soft body shaking with enjoyment; but before
Odo could make a guess at his meaning their conversation was interrupted by a sharp call from
the litter. The abate at once disappeared in the crowd, and a moment later the litter had debouched
on the grassy quadrangle before the outer gates of the monastery. This space was set in beech-woods,
amid which gleamed the white-pillared chapels of the Way of the Cross; and the devouter pilgrims,
dispersed beneath the trees, were ascending from one chapel to another, preparatory to entering
the church.

The quadrangle itself was crowded with people, and the sellers of votive offerings, in their
booths roofed with acacia-boughs, were driving a noisy trade in scapulars and Agnus Deis, images
of the Black Virgin of Oropa, silver hearts and crosses, and phials of Jordan water warranted
to effect the immediate conversion of Jews and heretics. In one corner a Carmelite missionary
had set up his portable pulpit, and, crucifix in hand, was exhorting the crowd; in another,
an improvisatore intoned canticles to the miraculous Virgin; a barefoot friar sat selling indulgences
at the monastery gate, and pedlars with trays of rosaries and religious prints pushed their
way among the pilgrims. Young women of less pious aspect solicited the attention of the better-dressed
travellers, and jugglers, mountebanks and quacks of every description hung on the outskirts
of the square. The sight speedily turned Odo's thought from his late companion, and the litter
coming to a halt he was leaning forward to observe the antics of a tumbler who had spread his
carpet beneath the trees, when the abate's face suddenly rose to the surface of the throng
and his hand thrust a crumpled paper between the curtains of the litter. Odo was quick-witted
enough to capture this missive without attracting the notice of his grand-aunts, and stealing
a glance at it, he read--"Cavaliere, I starve. When the illustrious ladies descend, for Christ's
sake beg a scudo of them for the unhappy Cantapresto."

By this the litter had disengaged itself and was moving toward the outer gates. Odo, aware
of the disfavour with which the theatre was viewed at Donnaz, and unable to guess how far the
soprano's present habit would be held to palliate the scandal of his former connection, was
perplexed how to communicate his petition to the canonesses. A moment later, however, the question
solved itself; for as the aunts descended at the door of the rector's lodging, the porter,
running to meet them, stumbled on a black mass under the arcade, and raised the cry that here
was a man dropped dead. A crowd gathering, some one called out that it was an ecclesiastic
had fallen; whereat the great-aunts were hurrying forward when Odo whispered the eldest, Donna
Livia, that the sick man was indeed an abate from Pianura. Donna Livia immediately bid her
servants lift him into the porter's lodge, where, with the administering of spirits, the poor
soprano presently revived and cast a drowning glance about the chamber.

"Eight years ago, illustrious ladies," he gurgled, "I had nearly died one night of a surfeit
of ortolans; and now it is of a surfeit of emptiness that I am perishing."

The ladies at this, with exclamations of pity, called on the lay-brothers for broth and cordials,
and bidding the porter enquire more particularly into the history of the unhappy ecclesiastic,
hastened away with Odo to the rector's parlour.

Next morning betimes all were afoot for the procession, which the canonesses were to witness
from the monastery windows. The apothecary had brought word that the abate, whose seizure was
indeed the result of hunger, was still too weak to rise; and Donna Livia, eager to open her
devotions with an act of pity, pressed a sequin in the man's hand, and bid him spare no care
for the sufferer's comfort.

This sent Odo in a cheerful mood to the red-hung windows, whence, peering between the folds
of his aunts' gala habits, he admired the great court enclosed in nobly-ordered cloisters and
strewn with fresh herbs and flowers. Thence one of the rector's chaplains conducted them to
the church, placing them, in company with the monastery's other noble guests, in a tribune
constructed above the choir. It was Odo's first sight of a great religious ceremony, and as
he looked down on the church glimmering with votive offerings and gold-fringed draperies, and
seen through rolling incense in which the altar-candles swam like stars reflected in a river,
he felt an almost sensual thrill of pleasure at the thought that his life was to be passed
amid scenes of such mystic beauty. The sweet singing of the choir raised his spirit to a higher
view of the scene; and the sight of the huddled misery on the floor of the church revived in
him the old longing for the Franciscan cowl.

From these raptures he was speedily diverted by the sight awaiting him at the conclusion of
the mass. Hardly had the spectators returned to the rector's windows when, the doors of the
church swinging open, a procession headed by the rector himself descended the steps and began
to make the circuit of the court. Odo's eyes swam with the splendour of this burst of banners,
images and jewelled reliquaries, surmounting the long train of tonsured heads and bathed in
a light almost blinding after the mild penumbra of the church. As the monks advanced, the pilgrims,
pouring after them, filled the court with a dark undulating mass through which the procession
wound like a ray of sunlight down the brown bosom of a torrent. Branches of oleander swung
in the air, devout cries hailed the approach of the Black Madonna's canopy, and hoarse voices
swelled to a roar the measured litanies of the friars.

The ceremonies over, Odo, with the canonesses, set out to visit the chapels studding the beech-knoll
above the monastic buildings. Passing out of Juvara's great portico they stood a moment above
the grassy common, which presented a scene in curious contrast to that they had just quitted.
Here refreshment-booths had been set up, musicians were fiddling, jugglers unrolling their
carpets, dentists shouting out the merits of their panaceas, and light women drinking with
the liveried servants of the nobility. The very cripples who had groaned the loudest in church
now rollicked with the mountebanks and dancers; and no trace remained of the celebration just
concluded but the medals and relics strung about the necks of those engaged in these gross
diversions.

It was strange to pass from this scene to the solitude of the grove, where, in a twilight rustling
with streams, the chapels lifted their white porches. Peering through the grated door of each
little edifice, Odo beheld within a group of terra-cotta figures representing some scene of
the Passion--here a Last Supper, with a tigerish Judas and a Saint John resting his yellow
curls on his Master's bosom, there an Entombment or a group of stricken Maries. These figures,
though rudely modelled and daubed with bright colours, yet, by a vivacity of attitude and gesture
which the mystery of their setting enhanced, conveyed a thrilling impression of the sacred
scenes set forth; and Odo was yet at an age when the distinction between flesh-and-blood and
its plastic counterfeits is not clearly defined, or when at least the sculptured image is still
a mysterious half-sentient thing, denizen of some strange borderland between art and life.
It seemed to him, as he gazed through the chapel gratings, that those long-distant episodes
of the divine tragedy had been here preserved in some miraculous state of suspended animation,
and as he climbed from one shrine to another he had the sense of treading the actual stones
of Gethsemane and Calvary.

As was usual with him, the impressions of the moment had effaced those preceding it, and it
was almost with surprise that, at the rector's door, he beheld the primo soprano of Pianura
totter forth to the litter and offer his knee as a step for the canonesses. The charitable
ladies cried out on him for this imprudence, and his pallor still giving evidence of distress,
he was bidden to wait on them after supper with his story. He presented himself promptly in
the parlour, and being questioned as to his condition at once rashly proclaimed his former
connection with the ducal theatre of Pianura. No avowal could have been more disastrous to
his cause. The canonesses crossed themselves with horror, and the abate, seeing his mistake,
hastened to repair it by exclaiming--"What, ladies, would you punish me for following a vocation
to which my frivolous parents condemned me when I was too young to resist their purpose? And
have not my subsequent sufferings, my penances and pilgrimages, and the state to which they
have reduced me, sufficiently effaced the record of an involuntary error?"

Seeing the effect of this appeal the abate made haste to follow up his advantage. "Ah, illustrious
ladies," he cried, "am I not a living example of the fate of those who leave all to follow
righteousness? For while I remained on the stage, among the most dissolute surroundings, fortune
showered me with every benefit she heaps on her favourites. I had my seat at every table in
Pianura; the Duke's chair to carry me to the theatre; and more money than I could devise how
to spend; while now that I have resigned my calling to embrace the religious life, you see
me reduced to begging a crust from the very mendicants I formerly nourished. For," said he,
moved to tears by his own recital, "my superfluity was always spent in buying the prayers of
the unfortunate, and to judge how I was esteemed by those acquainted with my private behaviour
you need only learn that, on my renouncing the stage, 'twas the Bishop of Pianura who himself
accorded me the tonsure."

This discourse, which Odo admired for its adroitness, visibly excited the commiseration of
the ladies; but at mention of the Bishop, Donna Livia exchanged a glance with her sister, who
enquired, with a quaint air of astuteness, "But how comes it, abate, that with so powerful
a protector you have been exposed to such incredible reverses?"

Cantapresto rolled a meaning eye.

"Alas, madam, it was through my protector that misfortune attacked me; for his lordship having
appointed me secretary to his favourite nephew, Don Serafino, that imprudent nobleman required
of me services so incompatible with my cloth that disobedience became a duty; whereupon, not
satisfied with dismissing me in disgrace, he punished me by blackening my character to his
uncle. To defend myself was to traduce Don Serafino; and rather than reveal his courses to
the Bishop I sank to the state in which you see me; a state," he added with emotion, "that
I have travelled this long way to commend to the adorable pity of Her whose Son had not where
to lay His head."

This stroke visibly touched the canonesses, still soft from the macerations of the morning;
and Donna Livia compassionately asked how he had subsisted since his rupture with the Bishop.

"Madam, by the sale of my talents in any service not at odds with my calling: as the compiling
of pious almanacks, the inditing of rhymed litanies and canticles, and even the construction
of theatrical pieces"--the ladies lifted hands of reprobation--"of theatrical pieces," Cantapresto
impressively repeated, "for the use of the Carmelite nuns of Pianura. But," said he with a
deprecating smile, "the wages of virtue are less liberal than those of sin, and spite of a
versatility I think I may honestly claim, I have often had to subsist on the gifts of the pious,
and sometimes, madam, to starve on their compassion."

This ready discourse, and the soprano's evident distress, so worked on the canonesses that,
having little money at their disposal, it was fixed, after some private consultation, that
he should attend them to Donnaz, where Don Gervaso, in consideration of his edifying conduct
in renouncing the stage, might be interested in helping him to a situation; and when the little
party set forth from Oropa, the abate Cantapresto closed the procession on one of the baggage-mules,
with Odo riding pillion at his back. Good fortune loosened the poor soprano's tongue, and as
soon as the canonesses' litter was a safe distance ahead he began to beguile the way with fragments
of reminiscence and adventure. Though few of his allusions were clear to Odo, the glimpse they
gave of the motley theatrical life of the north Italian cities--the quarrels between Goldoni
and the supporters of the expiring commedia dell' arte--the rivalries of the prime donne and
the arrogance of the popular comedians--all these peeps into a tinsel world of mirth, cabal
and folly, enlivened by the recurring names of the Four Masks, those lingering gods of the
older dispensation, so lured the boy's fancy and set free his vagrant wonder, that he was almost
sorry to see the keep of Donnaz reddening in the second evening's sunset.

Such regrets, however, their arrival at the castle soon effaced; for in the doorway stood the
old Marquess, a letter in hand, who springing forward caught his grandson by the shoulders,
and cried with his great boar-hunting shout, "Cavaliere, you are heir-presumptive of Pianura!"

1.7.

The Marquess of Cerveno had succumbed to the tertian ague contracted at the hunting-lodge of
Pontesordo; and this unforeseen calamity left but one life, that of the sickly ducal infant,
between Odo and the succession to the throne of Pianura. Such was the news conveyed post-haste
from Turin by Donna Laura; who added the Duke's express wish that his young kinsman should
be fitted for the secular career, and the information that Count Valdu had already entered
his stepson's name at the Royal Academy of Turin.

The Duke of Pianura being young and in good health, and his wife having already given him an
heir, the most sanguine imagination could hardly view Odo as being brought much nearer the
succession; yet the change in his condition was striking enough to excuse the fancy of those
about him for shaping the future to their liking. The priestling was to turn courtier and perhaps
soldier; Asti was to be exchanged for Turin, the seminary for the academy; and even the old
chief of Donnaz betrayed in his grumbling counsels to the boy a sense of the exalted future
in which they might some day serve him.

The preparations of departure and the wonder of his new state left Odo little space wherein
to store his thought with impressions of what he was leaving; and it was only in after years,
when the accretion of superficial incident had dropped from his past, that those last days
at Donnaz gained their full distinctness. He saw them then, heavy with the warmth of the long
summer, from the topmost pine-belt to the bronzed vineyards turning their metallic clusters
to the sun; and in the midst his small bewildered figure, netted in a web of association, and
seeming, as he broke away, to leave a shred of himself in every corner of the castle.

Sharpest of all, there remained with him the vision of his last hour with Don Gervaso. The
news of Odo's changed condition had been received in silence by the chaplain. He was not the
man to waste words and he knew the futility of asserting the Church's claim to the heir-presumptive
of a reigning house. Therefore if he showed no enthusiasm he betrayed no resentment; but, the
evening before the boy's departure, led him, still in silence, to the chapel. Here the priest
knelt with Odo; then, raising him, sat on one of the benches facing the high altar, and spoke
a few grave words.

"You are setting out," said he, "on a way far different from that in which it has been my care
to guide you; yet the high road and the mountain path may, by diverse windings, lead to the
same point; and whatever walk a man chooses, it will surely carry him to the end that God has
appointed. If you are called to serve Him in the world, the journey on which you are now starting
may lead you to the throne of Pianura; but even so," he went on, "there is this I would have
you remember: that should this dignity come to you it may come as a calamity rather than a
joy; for when God confers earthly honours on a child of His predilection, He sometimes deigns
to render them as innocuous as misfortune; and my chief prayer for you is that you should be
raised to this eminence, it may be at a moment when such advancement seems to thrust you in
the dust."

The words burned themselves into Odo's heart like some mystic writing on the walls of memory,
long afterward to start into fiery meaning. At the time he felt only that the priest spoke
with a power and dignity no human authority could give; and for a moment all the stored influences
of his faith reached out to him from the dimly-gleaming altar.

The next sun rose on a new world. He was to set out at daylight, and dawn found him at the
casement, footing it in thought down the road as yet undistinguishable in a dying glimmer of
stars. Bruno was to attend him to Turin; but one of the women presently brought word that the
old huntsman's rheumatism had caught him in the knee, and that the Marquess, resolved not to
delay his grandson's departure, had chosen Cantapresto as the boy's companion. The courtyard,
when Odo descended, fairly bubbled with the voluble joy of the fat soprano, who was giving
directions to the servants, receiving commissions and instructions from the aunts, assuring
everybody of his undying devotion to the heir-presumptive of Pianura, and citing impressive
instances of the responsibilities with which the great of the earth had formerly entrusted him.

As a companion for Odo the abate was clearly not to Don Gervaso's taste; but he stood silent,
turning the comment of a cool eye on the soprano's protestations, and saying only, as Cantapresto
swept the company into the circle of an obsequious farewell:--"Remember, signor abate, it is
to your cloth this business is entrusted." The abate's answer was a rush of purple to the forehead;
but Don Gervaso imperturbably added, "And you lie but one night on the road."

Meanwhile the old Marquess, visibly moved, was charging Odo to respect his elders and superiors,
while in the same breath warning him not to take up with the Frenchified notions of the court,
but to remember that for a lad of his condition the chief virtues were a tight seat in the
saddle, a quick hand on the sword and a slow tongue in counsel. "Mind your own business," he
concluded, "and see that others mind theirs."

The Marchioness thereupon, with many tears, hung a scapular about Odo's neck, bidding him shun
the theatre and be regular at confession; one of the canonesses reminded him not to omit a
visit to the chapel of the Holy Winding-sheet, while the other begged him to burn a candle
for her at the Consolata; and the servants pressed forward to embrace and bless their little
master.

Day was high by this, and as the Marquess's travelling-chariot rumbled down the valley the
shadows seemed to fly before it. Odo at first lay numb; but presently his senses woke to the
call of the brightening landscape. The scene was such as Salvator might have painted: wild
blocks of stone heaped under walnut-shade; here the white plunge of water down a wall of granite,
and there, in bluer depths, a charcoal burner's hut sending up its spiral of smoke to the dark
raftering of branches. Though it was but a few hours since Odo had travelled from Oropa, years
seemed to have passed over him, and he saw the world with a new eye. Each sound and scent plucked
at him in passing: the roadside started into detail like the foreground of some minute Dutch
painter; every pendent mass of fern, dark dripping rock, late tuft of harebell called out to
him: "Look well, for this is your last sight of us!" His first sight too, it seemed: since
he had lived through twelve Italian summers without sense of the sun-steeped quality of atmosphere
that, even in shade, gives each object a golden salience. He was conscious of it now only as
it suggested fingering a missal stiff with gold-leaf and edged with a swarming diversity of
buds and insects. The carriage moved so slowly that he was in no haste to turn the pages; and
each spike of yellow foxglove, each clouding of butterflies about a patch of speedwell, each
quiver of grass over a hidden thread of moisture, became a marvel to be thumbed and treasured.

From this mood he was detached by the next bend of the road. The way, hitherto winding through
narrow glens, now swung to a ledge overhanging the last escarpment of the mountains; and far
below, the Piedmontese plain unrolled to the southward its interminable blue-green distances
mottled with forest. A sight to lift the heart; for on those sunny reaches Ivrea, Novara, Vercelli
lay like sea-birds on a summer sea. It was the future unfolding itself to the boy; dark forests,
wide rivers, strange cities and a new horizon: all the mystery of the coming years figured
to him in that great plain stretching away to the greater mystery of heaven.

To all this Cantapresto turned a snoring countenance. The lively air of the hills, the good
fare of Donnaz, and the satisfaction, above all, of rolling on cushions over a road he had
thought to trudge on foot, had lapped the abate in Capuan slumber. The midday halt aroused
him. The travellers rested at an inn on the edge of the hills, and here Cantapresto proved
to his charge that, as he phrased it, his belly had as short a memory for food as his heart
for injuries. A flask of Asti put him in the talking mood, and as they drove on he regaled
Odo with a lively picture of the life on which he was about to enter.

"You are going," said he, "to one of the first cities of Europe; one that has all the beauty
and elegance of the French capital without its follies and excesses. Turin is blessed with
a court where good manners and a fine tone are more highly prized than the extravagances of
genius; and I have heard it said of his Majesty that he was delighted to see his courtiers
wearing the French fashions outside their heads, provided they didn't carry the French ideas
within. You are too young, doubtless, cavaliere, to have heard of the philosophers who are
raising such a pother north of the Alps: a set of madmen that, because their birth doesn't
give them the entree of Versailles, are preaching that men should return to a state of nature,
great ladies suckle their young like animals, and the peasantry own their land like nobles.
Luckily you'll hear little of this infectious talk in Turin: the King stamps out the philosophers
like vermin or packs them off to splutter their heresies in Milan or Venice. But to a nobleman
mindful of the privileges of his condition there is no more agreeable sojourn in Europe. The
wines are delicious, the women--er--accomplished--and though the sbirri may hug one a trifle
close now and then, why, with money and discretion, a friend or two in the right quarters,
and the wit to stand well with the Church, there's no city in Europe where a man may have pleasanter
sins to confess."

The carriage, by this, was descending the last curves above the valley, and before them, in
a hollow of the hills, blinked the warm shimmer of maize and vine, like some bright vintage
brimming its cup. The soprano waved a convivial hand.

"Look," he cried, "what Nature has done for this happy region! Where herself has spread the
table so bountifully, should her children hang back from the feast? I vow, cavaliere, if the
mountains were built for hermits and ascetics, then the plain was made level for dancing, banqueting
and the pleasures of the villeggiatura. If God had meant us to break our teeth on nuts and
roots, why did He hang the vine with fruit and draw three crops of wheat from this indulgent
soil? I protest when I look on such a scene as this, it is sufficient incentive to lowliness
to remember that the meek shall inherit the earth!"

This mood held Cantapresto till his after-dinner sleep overtook him; and when he woke again
the chariot was clattering across the bridge of Chivasso. The Po rolled its sunset crimson
between flats that seemed dull and featureless after the broken scenery of the hills; but beyond
the bridge rose the towers and roofs of the town, with its cathedral-front catching the last
slant of light. In the streets dusk had fallen and a lamp flared under the arch of the inn
before which the travellers halted. Odo's head was heavy, and he hardly noticed the figures
thronging the caffe into which they were led; but presently there rose a shout of "Cantapresto!"
and a ring of waving arms and flashing teeth encircled his companion.

These appendages belonged to a troop of men and women, some masked and in motley, others in
discoloured travel-stained garments, who pressed about the soprano with cries of joyous recognition.
He was evidently an old favourite of the band, for a duenna in tattered velvet fell on his
neck with genial unreserve, a pert soubrette caught him by the arm the duenna left free, and
a terrific Matamor with a nose like a scimitar slapped him on the back with a tin sword.

Odo's glimpse of the square at Oropa told him that here was a band of strolling players such
as Cantapresto had talked of on the ride back to Donnaz. Don Gervaso's instructions and the
old Marchioness's warning against the theatre were present enough in the boy's mind to add
a touch of awe to the curiosity with which he observed these strange objects of the Church's
reprobation. They struck him, it must be owned, as more pitiable than alarming, for the duenna's
toes were coming through her shoes, and one or two of the children who hung on the outskirts
of the group looked as lean and hungry under their spangles as the foundling-girl of Pontesordo.
Spite of this they seemed a jolly crew, and ready (at Cantapresto's expense) to celebrate their
encounter with the ex-soprano in unlimited libations of Asti and Val Pulicello. The singer,
however, hung back with protesting gestures.

"Gently, then, gently, dear friends--dear companions! When was it we parted? In the spring
of the year--and we meet now in the late summer. As the seasons change so do our conditions:
if the spring is a season of folly, then is the harvest-time the period for reflection. When
we last met I was a strolling poet, glad to serve your gifted company within the scope of my
talents--now, ladies and gentlemen, now"--he drew himself up with pride--"now you behold in
me the governor and friend of the heir-presumptive of Pianura."

Cries of incredulity and derision greeted this announcement, and one of the girls called out
laughingly, "Yet you have the same old cassock to your back!"

"And the same old passage from your mouth to your belly," added an elastic Harlequin, reaching
an arm across the women's shoulders. "Come, Cantapresto, we'll help you line it with good wine,
to the health of his most superlatively serene Highness, the heir-presumptive of Pianura; and
where is that fabulous personage, by the way?"

Odo at this retreated hastily behind the soprano; but a pretty girl catching sight of him,
he found himself dragged into the centre of the company, who hailed him with fantastic obeisances.
Supper meanwhile was being laid on the greasy table down the middle of the room. The Matamor,
who seemed the director of the troupe, thundered out his orders for maccaroni, fried eels and
sausages; the inn-servants flanked the plates with wine-flasks and lumps of black bread, and
in a moment the hungry comedians, thrusting Odo into a high seat at the head of the table,
were falling on the repast with a prodigious clatter of cutlery.

Of the subsequent incidents of the feast--the banter of the younger women, the duenna's lachrymose
confidences, the incessant interchange of theatrical jargon and coarse pleasantry--there remained
to Odo but a confused image, obscured by the smoke of guttering candles, the fumes of wine
and the stifling air of the low-ceilinged tavern. Even the face of the pretty girl who had
dragged him from his concealment, and who now sat at his side, plying him with sweets from
her own plate, began to fade into the general blur; and his last impression was of Cantapresto's
figure dilating to immense proportions at the other end of the table, as the soprano rose with
shaking wine-glass to favour the company with a song. The chorus, bursting forth in response,
surged over Odo's drowning senses, and he was barely aware, in the tumult of noise and lights,
of an arm slipped about him, a softly-heaving pillow beneath his head, and the gradual subsidence
into dark delicious peace.

So, on the first night of his new life, the heir-presumptive of Pianura fell asleep with his
head in a dancing-girl's breast.

1.8.

The travellers were to journey by Vettura from Chivasso to Turin; and when Odo woke next morning
the carriage stood ready in the courtyard.

Cantapresto, mottled and shamefaced, with his bands awry and an air of tottering dignity, was
gathering their possessions together, and the pretty girl who had pillowed Odo's slumbers now
knelt by his bed and laughingly drew on his stockings. She was a slim brown morsel, not much
above his age, with a glance that flitted like a bird, and round shoulders slipping out of
her kerchief. A wave of shyness bathed Odo to the forehead as their eyes met: he hung his head
stupidly and turned away when she fetched the comb to dress his hair.

His toilet completed, she called out to the abate to go below and see that the cavaliere's
chocolate was ready; and as the door closed she turned and kissed Odo on the lips.

"Oh, how red you are!" she cried laughing. "Is that the first kiss you've ever had? Then you'll
remember me when you're Duke of Pianura--Mirandolina of Chioggia, the first girl you ever kissed!"
She was pulling his collar straight while she talked, so that he could not get away from her.
"You will remember me, won't you?" she persisted. "I shall be a great actress by that time,
and you'll appoint me prima amorosa to the ducal theatre of Pianura, and throw me a diamond
bracelet from your Highness's box and make all the court ladies ready to poison me for rage!"
She released his collar and dropped away from him. "Ah, no, I shall be a poor strolling player,
and you a great prince," she sighed, "and you'll never, never think of me again; but I shall
always remember that I was the first girl you ever kissed!"

She hung back in a dazzle of tears, looking so bright and tender that Odo's bashfulness melted
like a spring frost.

"I shall never be Duke," he cried, "and I shall never forget you!" And with that he turned
and kissed her boldly and then bolted down the stairs like a hare. And all that day he scorched
and froze with the thought that perhaps she had been laughing at him.

Cantapresto was torpid after the feast, and Odo detected in him an air of guilty constraint.
The boy was glad enough to keep silence, and they rolled on without speaking through the wide
glowing landscape. Already the nearness of a great city began to make itself felt. The bright
champaign was scattered over with farm-houses, their red-tiled pigeon-cots and their granges
latticed with openwork terra-cotta pleasantly breaking the expanse of maize and mulberry; villages
lay along the banks of the canals intersecting the plain; and the hills beyond the Po were
planted with villas and monasteries.

All the afternoon they drove between umbrageous parks and under the walls of terraced vineyards.
It was a region of delectable shade, with glimpses here and there of gardens flashing with
fountains and villa roofs decked with statues and vases; and at length, toward sunset, a bend
of the road brought them out on a fair-spreading city, so flourishing in buildings, so beset
with smiling hills, that Odo, springing from his seat, cried out in sheer joy of the spectacle.

They had still the suburbs to traverse; and darkness was falling when they entered the gates
of Turin. This brought the fresh amazement of wide lamplit streets, clean and bright as a ball-room,
lined with palaces and filled with well-dressed loungers: officers in the brilliant Sardinian
uniforms, fine gentlemen in French tie-wigs and narrow-sleeved coats, merchants hurrying home
from business, ecclesiastics in high-swung carriages, and young bloods dashing by in their
curricles. The tables before the coffee-houses were thronged with idlers taking their chocolate
and reading the gazettes; and here and there the arched doorway of a palace showed some gay
party supping al fresco in a garden hung with lamps.

The flashing of lights and the noise of the streets roused Cantapresto, who sat up with a sudden
assumption of dignity.

"Ah, cavaliere," said he, "you now see a great city, a famous city, a city aptly called 'the
Paris of Italy.' Nowhere else shall you find such well-lit streets, such fair pavements, shops
so full of Parisian wares, promenades so crowded with fine carriages and horses. What a life
a young gentleman may lead here! The court is hospitable, society amiable, the theatres are
the best-appointed in Italy."

Here Cantapresto paused with a deprecating cough.

"Only one thing is necessary," he went on, "to complete enjoyment of the fruits of this garden
of Eden; and that is"--he coughed again--"discretion. His Majesty, cavaliere, is a father to
his subjects; the Church is their zealous mother; and between two such parents, and the innumerable
delegates of their authority, why, you may fancy, sir, that a man has to wear his eyes on all
sides of his head. Discretion is a virtue the Church herself commends; it is natural, then,
that she should afford her children full opportunity to practise it. And look you, cavaliere,
it is like gymnastics: the younger you acquire it, the less effort it costs. Our Maker Himself
has taught us the value of silence by putting us speechless into the world: if we learn to
talk later we do it at our own risk! But for your own part, cavaliere--since the habit cannot
too early be exercised--I would humbly counsel you to say nothing to your illustrious parents
of our little diversion of last evening."

The Countess Valdu lived on the upper floor of a rococo palace near the Piazza San Carlo; and
here Odo, led by Cantapresto, presently found himself shown into an apartment where several
ladies and gentlemen sat at cards. His mother, detaching herself from the group, embraced him
with unusual warmth, and the old Count, more painted and perfumed than ever, hurried up with
an obsequious greeting. Odo for the first time found himself of consequence in the world; and
as he was passed from guest to guest, questioned about his journey, praised for his good colour
and stout looks, complimented on his high prospects, and laughingly entreated not to forget
his old friends when fortune should advance him to the duchy, he began to feel himself a reigning
potentate already.

His mother, as he soon learned, had sunk into a life almost as dull and restricted as that
she had left Donnaz to escape. Count Valdu's position at court was more ornamental than remunerative,
the income from his estates was growing annually smaller, and he was involved in costly litigation
over the sale of some entailed property. Such conditions were little to the Countess's humour,
and the society to which her narrow means confined her offered few distractions to her vanity.
The frequenters of the house were chiefly poor relations and hangers-on of the Count's, the
parasites who in those days were glad to subsist on the crumbs of the slenderest larder. Half-a-dozen
hungry Countesses, their lean admirers, a superannuated abate or two, and a flock of threadbare
ecclesiastics, made up Donna Laura's circle; and even her cicisbeo, selected in family council
under the direction of her confessor, was an austere gentleman of middle age, who collected
ancient coins and was engaged in composing an essay on the Martellian verse.

This company, which devoted hours to the new French diversion of the parfilage, and spent the
evenings in drinking lemonade and playing basset for small stakes, found its chief topic of
conversation in the only two subjects safely discussed in Turin at that day--the doings of
the aristocracy and of the clergy. The fashion of the Queen's headdress at the last circle,
the marked manner in which his Majesty had lately distinguished the brilliant young cavalry
officer, Count Roberto di Tournanches, the third marriage of the Countess Alfieri of Asti,
the incredibility of the rumour that the court ladies of Versailles had taken to white muslin
and Leghorn hats, the probable significance of the Vicar-general's visit to Rome, the subject
of the next sacred representation to be given by the nuns of Santa Croce--such were the questions
that engaged the noble frequenters of Casa Valdu.

This was the only society that Donna Laura saw; for she was too poor to dress to her taste
and too proud to show herself in public without the appointments becoming her station. Her
sole distraction consisted in visits to the various shrines--the Sudario, the Consolata, the
Corpus Domini--at which the feminine aristocracy offered up its devotions and implored absolution
for sins it had often no opportunity to commit: for though fashion accorded cicisbei to the
fine ladies of Turin, the Church usually restricted their intercourse to the exchange of the
most harmless amenities.

Meanwhile the antechamber was as full of duns as the approach to Donna Laura's apartment at
Pianura; and Odo guessed that the warmth of the maternal welcome sprang less from natural affection
than from the hope of using his expectations as a sop to her creditors. The pittance which
the ducal treasury allowed for his education was scarce large enough to be worth diverting
to other ends; but a potential prince is a shield to the most vulnerable fortunes. In this
character Odo for the first time found himself flattered, indulged, and made the centre of
the company. The contrast to his life of subjection at Donnaz; the precocious initiation into
motives that tainted the very fount of filial piety; the taste of this mingled draught of adulation
and disillusionment, might have perverted a nature more self-centred than his. From this perversion,
and from many subsequent perils he was saved by a kind of imaginative sympathy, a wondering
joy in the mere spectacle of life, that tinged his most personal impressions with a streak
of the philosophic temper. If this trait did not save him from sorrow, it at least lifted him
above pettiness; if it could not solve the difficulties of life it could arm him to endure
them. It was the best gift of the past from which he sprang; but it was blent with another
quality, a deep moral curiosity that ennobled his sensuous enjoyment of the outward show of
life; and these elements were already tending in him, as in countless youths of his generation,
to the formation of a new spirit, the spirit that was to destroy one world without surviving
to create another.

Of all this none could have been less conscious than the lad just preparing to enter on his
studies at the Royal Academy of Turin. That institution, adjoining the royal palace, was a
kind of nursery or forcing-house for the budding nobility of Savoy. In one division of the
sumptuous building were housed his Majesty's pages, a corps of luxurious indolent young fops;
another wing accommodated the regular students of the Academy, sons of noblemen and gentlemen
destined for the secular life, while a third was set aside for the "forestieri" or students
from foreign countries and from the other Italian states. To this quarter Odo Valsecca was
allotted; though it was understood that on leaving the Academy he was to enter the Sardinian
service.

It was customary for a young gentleman of Odo's rank to be attended at the Academy not only
by a body-servant but by a private governor or pedant, whose business it was to overlook his
studies, attend him abroad, and have an eye to the society he frequented. The old Marquess
of Donnaz had sent his daughter, by Odo's hand, a letter recommending her to select her son's
governor with particular care, choosing rather a person of grave behaviour and assured morality
than one of your glib ink-spatterers who may know the inside of all the folios in the King's
library without being the better qualified for the direction of a young gentleman's conduct;
and to this letter Don Gervaso appended the terse postcript: "Your excellency is especially
warned against according this or any other position of trust to the merry-andrew who calls
himself the abate Cantapresto."

Donna Laura, with a shrug, handed the letter to her husband; Count Valdu, adjusting his glasses,
observed it was notorious that people living in the depths of the country thought themselves
qualified to instruct their city relatives on all points connected with the social usages;
and the cicisbeo suggested that he could recommend an abate who was proficient in the construction
of the Martellian verse, and who would made no extra charge for that accomplishment.

"Charges!" the Countess cried. "There's a matter my father doesn't deign to consider. It's
not enough, nowadays, to give the lads a governor, but they must maintain their servants too,
an idle gluttonous crew that prey on their pockets and get a commission off every tradesman's
bill."

Count Valdu lifted a deprecating hand.

"My dear, nothing could be more offensive to his Majesty than any attempt to reduce the way
of living of the pupils of the Academy."

"Of course," she shrugged--"But who's to pay? The Duke's beggarly pittance hardly clothes him."

The cicisbeo suggested that the cavaliere Odo had expectations; at which Donna Laura flushed
and turned uneasy; while the Count, part of whose marital duty it was to intervene discreetly
between his lady and her knight, now put forth the remark that the abate Cantapresto seemed
a shrewd serviceable fellow.

"Nor do I like to turn him adrift," cried the Countess instantly, "after he has obliged us
by attending my son on his journey."

"And I understand," added the Count, "that he would be glad to serve the cavaliere in any capacity
you might designate."

"Why not in all?" said the cicisbeo thoughtfully. "There would be undoubted advantages to the
cavaliere in possessing a servant who would explain the globes while powdering his hair and
not be above calling his chair when he attended him to a lecture."

And the upshot of it was that when Odo, a few days later, entered on his first term at the
Academy, he was accompanied by the abate Cantapresto, who had agreed, for a minimum of pay,
to serve him faithfully in the double capacity of pedagogue and lacquey.

The considerable liberty accorded the foreign students made Odo's first year at the Academy
at once pleasanter and less profitable than had he been one of the regular pupils. The companions
among whom he found himself were a set of lively undisciplined young gentlemen, chiefly from
England, Russia and the German principalities; all in possession of more or less pocket-money
and attended by governors either pedantic and self-engrossed or vulgarly subservient. These
young sprigs, whose ambition it was to ape the dress and manners of the royal pages, led a
life of dissipation barely interrupted by a few hours of attendance at the academic classes.
From the ill-effects of such surroundings Odo was preserved by an intellectual curiosity that
flung him ravening on his studies. It was not that he was of a bookish habit, or that the drudgery
of the classes was less irksome to him than to the other pupils; but not even the pedantic
methods then prevailing, or the distractions of his new life, could dull the flush of his first
encounter with the past. His imagination took fire over the dry pages of Cornelius Nepos, glowed
with the mild pastoral warmth of the Georgics and burst into flame at the first hexameters
of the Aeneid. He caught but a fragment of meaning here and there, but the sumptuous imagery,
the stirring names, the glimpses into a past where Roman senators were mingled with the gods
of a gold-pillared Olympus, filled his mind with a misty pageant of immortals. These moments
of high emotion were interspersed with hours of plodding over the Latin grammar and the textbooks
of philosophy and logic. Books were unknown ground to Cantapresto, and among masters and pupils
there was not one who could help Odo to the meaning of his task, or who seemed aware that it
might have a meaning. To most of the lads about him the purpose of the Academy was to fit young
gentlemen for the army or the court; to give them the chance of sweating a shirt every morning
with the fencing-master and of learning to thread the intricacies of the court minuet. They
modelled themselves on the dress and bearing of the pages, who were always ruffling it about
the quadrangle in court dress and sword, or booted and spurred for a day's hunting at the King's
chase of Stupinigi. To receive a nod or a word from one of these young demigods on his way
to the King's opera-box or just back from a pleasure-party at her Majesty's villa above the
Po--to hear of their tremendous exploits and thrilling escapades--seemed to put the whole school
in touch with the fine gentleman's world of intrigue, cards and duelling: the world in which
ladies were subjugated, fortunes lost, adversaries run through and tradesmen ruined with that
imperturbable grace which distinguished the man of quality from the plebeian.

Among the privileges of the foreign pupils were frequent visits to the royal theatre; and here
was to Odo a source of unimagined joys. His superstitious dread of the stage (a sentiment,
he soon discovered, that not even his mother's director shared) made his heart beat oppressively
as he first set foot in the theatre. It was a gala night, boxes and stalls were thronged, and
the audience-hall unfolded its glittering curves like some poisonous flower enveloping him
in rich malignant fragrance. This impression was dispelled by the rising of the curtain on
a scene of such Claude-like loveliness as it would have been impossible to associate with the
bug-bear tales of Donnaz or with the coarse antics of the comedians at Chivasso. A temple girt
with mysterious shade, lifting its colonnade above a sunlit harbour; and before the temple,
vine-wreathed nymphs waving their thyrsi through the turns of a melodious dance--such was the
vision that caught up Odo and swept him leagues away from the rouged and starred assemblage
gathered in the boxes to gossip, flirt, eat ices and chocolates, and incidentally, in the pauses
of their talk, to listen for a moment to the ravishing airs of Metastasio's Achilles in Scyros.

The distance between such performances--magic evocations of light and colour and melody--and
the gross buffoonery of the popular stage, still tainted with the obscenities of the old commedia
dell' arte, in a measure explains the different points from which at that period the stage
was viewed in Italy: a period when in such cities as Milan, Venice, Turin, actors and singers
were praised to the skies and loaded with wealth and favours, while the tatterdemalion players
who set up their boards in the small towns at market-time or on feast-days were despised by
the people and flung like carrion into unconsecrated graves. The impression Odo had gathered
from Don Gervaso's talk was of the provincial stage in all its pothouse license; but here was
a spectacle as lofty and harmonious as some great religious pageant. As the action developed
and the beauty of the verse was borne to Odo on the light hurrying ripples of Caldara's music
he turned instinctively to share his pleasure with those about him. Cantapresto, in a new black
coat and ruffles, was conspicuously taking snuff from the tortoiseshell box which the Countess's
cicisbeo had given him; but Odo saw that he took less pleasure in the spectacle than in the
fact of accompanying the heir-presumptive of Pianura to a gala performance at the royal theatre;
and the lads about them were for the most part engaged either with their own dress and appearance,
or in exchanging greetings with the royal pages and the older students. A few of these sat
near Odo, disdainfully superior in their fob-chains and queues; and as the boy glanced about
him he met the fixed stare of one of the number, a tall youth seated at his elbow, and conspicuous,
even in that modish company, for the exaggerated elegance of his dress. This young man, whose
awkward bearing and long lava-hued face crowned with flamboyant hair contrasted oddly with
his finical apparel, returned Odo's look with a gaze of eager comprehension. He too, it was
clear, felt the thrill and wonder, or at least re-lived them in the younger lad's emotion;
and from that moment Odo felt himself in mute communion with his neighbour.

The quick movement of the story--the succession of devices by which the wily Ulysses lures
Achilles to throw off his disguise, while Deidamia strives to conceal his identity; the scenic
beauties of the background, shifting from sculpture-gallery to pleasance, from pleasance to
banquet-hall; the pomp and glitter of the royal train, the melting graces of Deidamia and her
maidens; seemed, in their multiple appeal, to develop in Odo new faculties of perception. It
was his first initiation into Italian poetry, and the numbers, now broken, harsh and passionate,
now flowing into liquid sweetness, were so blent with sound and colour that he scarce knew
through which sense they reached him. Deidamia's strophes thrilled him like the singing-girl's
kiss, and at the young hero's cry--

    Ma lo so ch' io sono Achille,
    E mi sento Achille in sen--

his fists tightened and the blood hummed in his ears.

In the scene of the banquet-hall, where the followers of Ulysses lay before Lycomedes the offerings
of the Greek chieftains, and, while the King and Deidamia are marvelling at the jewels and
the Tyrian robes, Achilles, unmindful of his disguise, bursts out

Ah, chi vide finora armi piu belle?

--at this supreme point Odo again turned to his neighbour. They exchanged another look, and
at the close of the act the youth leaned forward to ask with an air of condescension: "Is this
your first acquaintance with the divine Metastasio?"

"I have never been in a play-house before," said Odo reddening.

The other smiled. "You are fortunate in having so worthy an introduction to the stage. Many
of our operas are merely vulgar and ridiculous; but Metastasio is a great poet." Odo nodded
a breathless assent. "A great poet," his new acquaintance resumed, "and handling a great theme.
But do you not suffer from the silly songs that perpetually interrupt the flow of the verse?
To me they are intolerable. Metastasio might have been a great tragic dramatist if Italy would
have let him. But Italy does not want tragedies--she wishes to be sung to, danced to, made
eyes at, flattered and amused! Give her anything, anything that shall help her to forget her
own abasement. Panem et circenses! that is always her cry. And who can wonder that her sovereigns
and statesmen are willing to humour her, when even her poets stoop to play the mountebank for
her diversion?" The speaker, ruffling his locks with a hand that scattered the powder, turned
on the brilliant audience his strange corrugated frown. "Fools! simpletons!" he cried, "not
to see that in applauding the Achilles of Metastasio they are smiling at the allegory of their
own abasement! What are the Italians of today but men tricked out in women's finery, when they
should be waiting full-armed to rally at the first signal of revolt? Oh, for the day when a
poet shall arise who dares tell them the truth, not disguised in sentimental frippery, not
ending in a maudlin reconciliation of love and glory--but the whole truth, naked, cold and
fatal as a patriot's blade; a poet who dares show these bedizened courtiers they are no freer
than the peasants they oppress, and tell the peasants they are entitled to the same privileges
as their masters!" He paused and drew back with a supercilious smile. "But doubtless, sir,"
said he, "I offend you in thus arraigning your sacred caste; for unless I mistake you belong
to the race of demi-gods--the Titans whose downfall is at hand?" He swept the boxes with a
contemptuous eye.

Little of this tirade was clear to Odo; but something in the speaker's tone moved him to answer,
with a quick lifting of his head: "My name is Odo Valsecca, of the Dukes of Pianura;" when,
fearing he had seemed to parade his birth before one evidently of inferior station, he at once
added with a touch of shyness: "And you, sir, are perhaps a poet, since you speak so beautifully?"

At which, with a stare and a straightening of his long awkward body, the other haughtily returned:
"A poet, sir? I am the Count Vittorio Alfieri of Asti."

1.9.

The singular being with whom chance had thus brought him acquainted was to have a lasting influence
on the formation of Odo's character.

Vittorio Alfieri, then just concluding, at the age of sixteen, his desultory years of academic
schooling, was probably the most extraordinary youth in Charles Emmanuel's dominion. Of the
future student, of the tragic poet who was to prepare the liberation of Italy by raising the
political ideals of his generation, this moody boy with his craze for dress and horses, his
pride of birth and contempt for his own class, his liberal theories and insolently aristocratic
practice, must have given small promise to the most discerning observer. It seems indeed probable
that none thought him worth observing and that he passed among his townsmen merely as one of
the most idle and extravagant young noblemen in a society where idleness and extravagance were
held to be the natural attributes of the great. But in the growth of character the light on
the road to Damascus is apt to be preceded by faint premonitory gleams; and even in his frivolous
days at the Academy Alfieri carried a Virgil in his pocket and wept and trembled over Ariosto's
verse.

It was the instant response of Odo's imagination that drew the two together. Odo, as one of
the foreign pupils, was quartered in the same wing of the Academy with the students of Alfieri's
class, and enjoyed an almost equal freedom. Thus, despite the difference of age, the lads found
themselves allied by taste and circumstances. Among the youth of their class they were perhaps
the only two who already felt, however obscurely, the stirring of unborn ideals, the pressure
of that tide of renovation that was to sweep them, on widely-sundered currents, to the same
uncharted deep. Alfieri, at any rate, represented to the younger lad the seer who held in his
hands the keys of knowledge and beauty. Odo could never forget the youth who first leant him
Annibale Caro's Aeneid and Metastasio's opera libretti, Voltaire's Zaire and the comedies of
Goldoni; while Alfieri perhaps found in his companion's sympathy with his own half-dormant
tastes the first incentive to a nobler activity. Certain it is that, in the interchange of
their daily comradeship, the elder gave his friend much that he was himself unconscious of
possessing, and perhaps first saw reflected in Odo's more vivid sensibility an outline of the
formless ideals coiled in the depths of his own sluggish nature.

The difference in age, and the possession of an independent fortune, which the laws of Savoy
had left Alfieri free to enjoy since his fifteenth year, gave him an obvious superiority over
Odo; but if Alfieri's amusements separated him from his young friend, his tastes were always
drawing them together; and Odo was happily of those who are more engaged in profiting by what
comes their way than in pining for what escapes them. Much as he admired Alfieri, it was somehow
impossible for the latter to condescend to him; and the equality of intercourse between the
two was perhaps its chief attraction to a youth surfeited with adulation.

Of the opportunities his new friendship brought him, none became in after years a pleasanter
memory to Odo than his visits with Vittorio to the latter's uncle, the illustrious architect
Count Benedetto Alfieri. This accomplished and amiable man, who had for many years devoted
his talents to the King's service, was lodged in a palace adjoining the Academy; and thither,
one holiday afternoon, Vittorio conducted his young friend.

Ignorant as Odo was of all the arts, he felt on the very threshold the new quality of his surroundings.
These tall bare rooms, where busts and sarcophagi were ranged as in the twilight of a temple,
diffused an influence that lowered the voice and hushed the step. In the semi-Parisian capital
where French architects designed the King's pleasure-houses and the nobility imported their
boudoir-panellings from Paris and their damask hangings from Lyons, Benedetto Alfieri represented
the old classic tradition, the tradition of the "grand manner," which had held its own through
all later variations of taste, running parallel with the barocchismo of the seventeenth century
and the effeminate caprices of the rococo period. He had lived much in Rome, in the company
of men like Winckelmann and Maffei, in that society where the revival of classical research
was being forwarded by the liberality of Princes and Cardinals and by the indefatigable zeal
of the scholars in their pay. From this centre of aesthetic reaction Alfieri had returned to
the Gallicized Turin, with its preference for the graceful and ingenious rather than for the
large, the noble, the restrained; bringing to bear on the taste of his native city the influence
of a view raised but perhaps narrowed by close study of the past: the view of a generation
of architects in whom archeological curiosity had stifled the artistic instinct, and who, instead
of assimilating the spirit of the past like their great predecessors, were engrossed in a sterile
restoration of the letter. It may be said of this school of architects that they were of more
service to posterity than to their contemporaries; for while they opened the way to modern
antiquarian research, their pedantry checked the natural development of a style which, if left
to itself, might in time have found new and more vigorous forms of expression.

To Odo, happily, Count Benedetto's surroundings spoke more forcibly than his theories. Every
object in the calm severe rooms appealed to the boy with the pure eloquence of form. Casts
of the Vatican busts stood against the walls and a niche at one end of the library contained
a marble copy of the Apollo Belvedere. The sarcophagi with their winged genii, their garlands
and bucranes, and porphyry tazzas, the fragments of Roman mosaic and Pompeian fresco-painting,
roused Odo's curiosity as if they had been the scattered letters of a new alphabet; and he
saw with astonishment his friend Vittorio's indifference to these wonders. Count Benedetto,
it was clear, was resigned to his nephew's lack of interest. The old man doubtless knew that
he represented to the youth only the rich uncle whose crotchets must be humoured for the sake
of what his pocket may procure; and such kindly tolerance made Odo regret that Vittorio should
not at least affect an interest in his uncle's pursuits.

Odo's eagerness to see and learn filled Count Benedetto with a simple joy. He brought forth
all his treasures for the boy's instruction and the two spent many an afternoon poring over
Piranesi's Roman etchings, Maffei's Verona Illustrata, and Count Benedetto's own elegant pencil-drawings
of classical remains. Like all students of his day he had also his cabinet of antique gems
and coins, from which Odo obtained more intimate glimpses of that buried life so marvellously
exhumed before him: hints of traffic in far-off market-places and familiar gestures of hands
on which those very jewels might have sparkled. Nor did the Count restrict the boy's enquiries
to that distant past; and for the first time Odo heard of the masters who had maintained the
great classical tradition on Latin soil: Sanmichele, Vignola, Sansovino, and the divine Michael
Angelo, whom the old architect never named without baring his head. From the works of these
architects Odo formed his first conception of the earlier, more virile manner which the first
contact with Graeco-Roman antiquity had produced. The Count told him, too, of the great painters
whose popularity had been lessened, if their fame had not been dimmed, by the more recent achievements
of Correggio, Guido, Guercino, and the Bolognese school. The splendour of the stanze of the
Vatican, the dreadful majesty of the Sistine ceiling, revealed to Odo the beauty of that unmatched
moment before grandeur broke into bombast. His early association with the expressive homely
art of the chapel at Pontesordo and with the half-pagan beauty of Luini's compositions had
formed his taste on soberer lines than the fashion of the day affected; and his imagination
breathed freely on the heights of the Latin Parnassus. Thus, while his friend Vittorio stormed
up and down the quiet rooms, chattering about his horses, boasting of his escapades, or ranting
against the tyranny of the Sardinian government, Odo, at the old Count's side, was entering
on the great inheritance of the past.

Such an initiation was the more precious to him from the indifference of those about him to
all forms of liberal culture. Among the greater Italian cities, Turin was at that period the
least open to new influences, the most rigidly bound up in the formulas of the past. While
Milan, under the Austrian rule, was becoming a centre of philosophic thought; while Naples
was producing a group of economists such as Galiani, Gravina and Filangieri; while ecclesiastical
Rome was dedicating herself to the investigation of ancient art and polity, and even flighty
Venice had her little set of "liberals," who read Voltaire and Hume and wept over the rights
of man, the old Piedmontese capital lay in the grasp of a bigoted clergy and of a reigning
house which was already preparing to superimpose Prussian militarism on the old feudal discipline
of the border. Generations of hard fighting and rigorous living had developed in the nobles
the qualities which were preparing them for the great part their country was to play; and contact
with the Waldensian and Calvinist heresies had stiffened Piedmontese piety into a sombre hatred
of schism and a minute observance of the mechanical rules of the faith. Such qualities could
be produced only at the expense of intellectual freedom; and if Piedmont could show a few nobles
like Massimo d'Azeglio's father, who "made the education of his children his first and gravest
thought" and supplemented the deficiencies of his wife's conventual training by "consecrating
to her daily four hours of reading, translating and other suitable exercises," the commoner
view was that of Alfieri's own parents, who frequently repeated in their son's hearing "the
old maxim of the Piedmontese nobility" that there is no need for a gentleman to be a scholar.
Such at any rate was the opinion of the old Marquess of Donnaz, and of all the frequenters
of Casa Valdu. Odo's stepfather was engrossed in the fulfilment of his duties about the court,
and Donna Laura, under the influence of poverty and ennui, had sunk into a state of rigid pietism;
so that the lad, on his visits to his mother, found himself in a world where art was represented
by the latest pastel-portrait of a court beauty, literature by Liguori's Glories of Mary or
the blessed Battista's Mental Sorrows of Christ, and history by the conviction that Piedmont's
efforts to stamp out the enemies of the Church had distinguished her above every other country
of Europe. Donna Laura's cicisbeo was indeed a member of the local Arcadia, and given to celebrating
in verse every incident in the noble household of Valdu, from its lady's name-day to the death
of a pet canary; but his own tastes inclined to the elegant Bettinelli, whose Lettere Virgiliane
had so conclusively shown Dante to be a writer of barbarous doggerel; and among the dilettanti
of the day one heard less of Raphael than of Carlo Maratta, less of Ariosto and Petrarch than
of the Jesuit poet Padre Cevo, author of the sublime "heroico-comic" poem on the infancy of Jesus.

It was in fact mainly to the Jesuits that Italy, in the early part of the eighteenth century,
owed her literature and her art, as well as the direction of her religious life. Though the
reaction against the order was everywhere making itself felt, though one Italian sovereign
after another had been constrained to purchase popularity or even security by banishing the
Society from his dominions, the Jesuits maintained their hold on the aristocracy, whose pretentions
they flattered, whose tastes they affected, and to whom they represented the spirit of religious
and political conservatism, against which invisible forces were already felt to be moving.
For the use of their noble supporters, the Jesuits had devised a religion as elaborate and
ceremonious as the social usages of the aristocracy: a religion which decked its chapels in
imitation of great ladies' boudoirs and prescribed observances in keeping with the vapid and
gossiping existence of their inmates.

To Odo, fresh from the pure air of Donnaz, where the faith of his kinsfolk expressed itself
in charity, self-denial and a noble decency of life, there was something stifling in the atmosphere
of languishing pietism in which his mother's friends veiled the emptiness of their days. Under
the instruction of the Countess's director the boy's conscience was enervated by the casuistries
of Liguorianism and his devotion dulled by the imposition of interminable "pious practices."
It was in his nature to grudge no sacrifice to his ideals, and he might have accomplished without
question the monotonous observances his confessor exacted, but for the changed aspect of the
Deity in whose name they were imposed.

As with most thoughtful natures, Odo's first disillusionment was to come from discovering not
what his God condemned, but what He condoned. Between Cantapresto's coarse philosophy of pleasure
and the refined complaisances of his new confessor he felt the distinction to be one rather
of taste than of principle; and it seemed to him that the religion of the aristocracy might
not unfairly be summed up in the ex-soprano's cynical aphorism: "As respectful children of
our Heavenly Father it behoves us not to speak till we are spoken to."

Even the religious ceremonies he witnessed did not console him for that chill hour of dawn,
when, in the chapel at Donnaz, he had served the mass for Don Gervaso, with a heart trembling
at its own unworthiness yet uplifted by the sense of the Divine Presence. In the churches adorned
like aristocratic drawing-rooms, of which some Madonna, wreathed in artificial flowers, seemed
the amiable and indulgent hostess, and where the florid passionate music of the mass was rendered
by the King's opera singers before a throng of chattering cavaliers and ladies, Odo prayed
in vain for a reawakening of the old emotion. The sense of sonship was gone. He felt himself
an alien in the temple of this affable divinity, and his heart echoed no more than the cry
which had once lifted him on wings of praise to the very threshold of the hidden glory--

Domine, dilexi decorem domus tuae et locum habitationis gloriae tuae!

It was in the first reaction from this dimly felt loss that he lit one day on a volume which
Alfieri had smuggled into the Academy--the Lettres Philosophiques of Francois Arouet de Voltaire.

BOOK II.

THE NEW LIGHT.

Zu neuen Ufern lockt ein neuer Tag.

2.1.

One afternoon of April in the year 1774, Odo Valsecca, riding down the hillside below the church
of the Superga, had reined in his horse at a point where a group of Spanish chestnuts overhung
the way. The air was light and pure, the shady turf invited him, and dismounting he bid his
servant lead the horses to the wayside inn half way down the slope.

The spot he had chosen, though secluded as some nook above the gorge of Donnaz, commanded a
view of the Po rolling at his feet like a flood of yellowish metal, and beyond, outspread in
clear spring sunshine, the great city in the bosom of the plain. The spectacle was fair enough
to touch any fancy: brown domes and facades set in new-leaved gardens and surrounded by vineyards
extending to the nearest acclivities; country-houses glancing through the fresh green of planes
and willows; monastery-walls cresting the higher ridges; and westward the Po winding in sunlit
curves toward the Alps.

Odo had lost none of his sensitiveness to such impressions; but the sway of another mood turned
his eye from the outstretched beauty of the city to the vernal solitude about him. It was the
season when old memories of Donnaz worked in his blood; when the banks and hedges of the fresh
hill-country about Turin cheated him with a breath of budding beech-groves and the fragrance
of crushed fern in the glens of the high Pennine valleys. It was a mere waft, perhaps, from
some clod of loosened earth, or the touch of cool elastic moss as he flung himself face downward
under the trees; but the savour, the contact filled his nostrils with mountain air and his
eyes with dim-branched distances. At Donnaz the slow motions of the northern spring had endeared
to him all those sweet incipiencies preceding the full choral burst of leaf and flower: the
mauve mist over bare woodlands, the wet black gleams in frost-bound hollows, the thrust of
fronds through withered bracken, the primrose-patches spreading like pale sunshine along wintry
lanes. He had always felt a sympathy for these delicate unnoted changes; but the feeling which
had formerly been like the blind stir of sap in a plant was now a conscious sensation that
groped for speech and understanding.

He had grown up among people to whom such emotions were unknown. The old Marquess's passion
for his fields and woods was the love of the agriculturist and the hunter, not that of the
naturalist or the poet; and the aristocracy of the cities regarded the country merely as so
much soil from which to draw their maintenance. The gentlefolk never absented themselves from
town but for a few weeks of autumn, when they went to their villas for the vintage, transporting
thither all the diversions of city life and venturing no farther afield than the pleasure-grounds
that were but so many open-air card-rooms, concert-halls and theatres. Odo's tenderness for
every sylvan function of renewal and decay, every shifting of light and colour on the flying
surface of the year, would have been met with the same stare with which a certain enchanting
Countess had received the handful of wind-flowers that, fresh from a sunrise on the hills,
he had laid one morning among her toilet-boxes. The Countess Clarice had stared and laughed,
and every one of his acquaintance, Alfieri even, would have echoed her laugh; but one man at
least had felt the divine commotion of nature's touch, had felt and interpreted it, in words
as fresh as spring verdure, in the pages of a volume that Odo now drew from his pocket.

"I longed to dream, but some unexpected spectacle continually distracted me from my musings.
Here immense rocks hung their ruinous masses above my head; there the thick mist of roaring
waterfalls enveloped me; or some unceasing torrent tore open at my very feet an abyss into
which the gaze feared to plunge. Sometimes I was lost in the twilight of a thick wood; sometimes,
on emerging from a dark ravine, my eyes were charmed by the sight of an open meadow...Nature
seemed to revel in unwonted contrasts; such varieties of aspect had she united in one spot.
Here was an eastern prospect bright with spring flowers, while autumn fruits ripened to the
south and the northern face of the scene was still locked in wintry frosts...Add to this the
different angles at which the peaks took the light, the chiaroscuro of sun and shade, and the
variations of light resulting from it at morning and evening...sum up the impressions I have
tried to describe and you will be able to form an idea of the enchanting situation in which
I found myself...The scene has indeed a magical, a supernatural quality, which so ravishes
the spirit and senses that one seems to lose all exact notion of one's surroundings and identity."

This was a new language to eighteenth-century readers. Already it had swept through the length
and breadth of France, like a spring storm-wind bursting open doors and windows, and filling
close candle-lit rooms with wet gusts and the scent of beaten blossoms; but south of the Alps
the new ideas travelled slowly, and the Piedmontese were as yet scarce aware of the man who
had written thus of their own mountains. It was true that, some thirty years earlier, in one
of the very monasteries on which Odo now looked down, a Swiss vagrant called Rousseau had embraced
the true faith with the most moving signs of edification; but the rescue of Helvetian heretics
was a favourite occupation of the Turinese nobility and it is doubtful if any recalled the
name of the strange proselyte who had hastened to signalise his conversion by robbing his employers
and slandering an innocent maid-servant. Odo in fact owed his first acquaintance with the French
writers to Alfieri, who, in the intervals of his wandering over Europe, now and then reappeared
in Turin laden with the latest novelties in Transalpine literature and haberdashery. What his
eccentric friend failed to provide, Odo had little difficulty in obtaining for himself; for
though most of the new writers were on the Index, and the Sardinian censorship was notoriously
severe, there was never yet a barrier that could keep out books, and Cantapresto was a skilled
purveyor of contraband dainties. Odo had thus acquainted himself with the lighter literature
of England and France; and though he had read but few philosophical treatises, was yet dimly
aware of the new standpoint from which, north of the Alps, men were beginning to test the accepted
forms of thought. The first disturbance of his childish faith, and the coincident reading of
the Lettres Philosophiques, had been followed by a period of moral perturbation, during which
he suffered from that sense of bewilderment, of inability to classify the phenomena of life,
that is one of the keenest trials of inexperience. Youth and nature had their way with him,
however, and a wholesome reaction of indifference set in. The invisible world of thought and
conduct had been the frequent subject of his musings; but the other, tangible world was close
to him too, spreading like a rich populous plain between himself and the distant heights of
speculation. The old doubts, the old dissatisfactions, hung on the edge of consciousness; but
he was too profoundly Italian not to linger awhile in that atmosphere of careless acquiescence
that is so pleasant a medium for the unhampered enjoyment of life. Some day, no doubt, the
intellectual curiosity and the moral disquietude would revive; but what he wanted now were
books which appealed not to his reason but to his emotions, which reflected as in a mirror
the rich and varied life of the senses: books that were warm to the touch, like the little
volume in his hand.

For it was not only of nature that the book spoke. Amid scenes of such rustic freshness were
set human passions as fresh and natural: a great romantic love, subdued to duty, yet breaking
forth again and again as young shoots spring from the root of a felled tree. To eighteenth-century
readers such a picture of life was as new as its setting. Duty, in that day, to people of quality,
meant the observance of certain fixed conventions: the correct stepping of a moral minuet;
as an inner obligation, as a voluntary tribute to Diderot's "divinity on earth," it had hardly
yet drawn breath. To depict a personal relation so much purer and more profound than any form
of sentiment then in fashion, and then to subordinate it, unflinchingly, to the ideal of those
larger relations that link the individual to the group--this was a stroke of originality for
which it would be hard to find a parallel in modern fiction. Here at last was an answer to
the blind impulses agrope in Odo's breast--the loosening of those springs of emotion that gushed
forth in such fresh contrast to the stagnant rills of the sentimental pleasure-garden. To renounce
a Julie would be more thrilling than--

Odo, with a sigh, thrust the book in his pocket and rose to his feet. It was the hour of the
promenade at the Valentino and he had promised the Countess Clarice to attend her. The old
high-roofed palace of the French princess lay below him, in its gardens along the river: he
could figure, as he looked down on it, the throng of carriages and chairs, the modishly dressed
riders, the pedestrians crowding the footpath to watch the quality go by. The vision of all
that noise and glitter deepened the sweetness of the woodland hush. He sighed again. Suddenly
voices sounded in the road below--a man's speech flecked with girlish laughter. Odo hung back
listening: the girl's voice rang like a bird-call through his rustling fancies. Presently she
came in sight: a slender black-mantled figure hung on the arm of an elderly man in the sober
dress of one of the learned professions--a physician or a lawyer, Odo guessed. Their being
afoot, and the style of the man's dress, showed that they were of the middle class; their demeanour,
that they were father and daughter. The girl moved with a light forward flowing of her whole
body that seemed the pledge of grace in every limb: of her face Odo had but a bright glimpse
in the eclipse of her flapping hat-brim. She stood under his tree unheeded; but as they rose
abreast of him the girl paused and dropped her companion's arm.

"Look! The cherry flowers!" she cried, and stretched her arms to a white gush of blossoms above
the wall across the road. The movement tilted back her hat, and Odo caught her small fine profile,
wide-browed as the head on some Sicilian coin, with a little harp-shaped ear bedded in dark
ripples.

"Oh," she wailed, straining on tiptoe, "I can't reach them!"

Her father smiled. "May temptation," said he philosophically, "always hang as far out of your
reach."

"Temptation?" she echoed.

"Is it not theft you're bent on?"

"Theft? This is a monk's orchard, not a peasant's plot."

"Confiscation, then," he humorously conceded.

"Since they pay no taxes on their cherries they might at least," she argued, "spare a few to
us poor taxpayers."

"Ah," said her father, "I want to tax their cherries, not to gather them." He slipped a hand
through her arm. "Come, child," said he, "does not the philosopher tell us that he who enjoys
a thing possesses it? The flowers are yours already!"

"Oh, are they?" she retorted. "Then why doesn't the loaf in the baker's window feed the beggar
that looks in at it?"

"Casuist!" he cried and drew her up the bend of the road.

Odo stood gazing after them. Their words, their aspect, seemed an echo of his reading. The
father in his plain broadcloth and square-buckled shoes, the daughter with her unpowdered hair
and spreading hat, might have stepped from the pages of the romance. What a breath of freshness
they brought with them! The girl's cheek was clear as the cherry-blossoms, and with what lovely
freedom did she move! Thus Julie might have led Saint Preux through her "Elysium." Odo crossed
the road and, breaking one of the blossoming twigs, thrust it in the breast of his uniform.
Then he walked down the hill to the inn where the horses waited. Half an hour later he rode
up to the house where he lodged in the Piazza San Carlo.

In the archway Cantapresto, heavy with a nine years' accretion of fat, laid an admonishing
hand on his bridle.

"Cavaliere, the Countess's black boy--"

"Well?"

"Three several times has battered the door down with a missive."

"Well?"

"The last time, I shook him off with the message that you would be there before him."

"Be where?"

"At the Valentino; but that was an hour ago!"

Odo slipped from the saddle.

"I must dress first. Call a chair; or no--write a letter for me first. Let Antonio carry it."

The ex-soprano, wheezing under the double burden of flesh and consequence, had painfully laboured
after Odo up the high stone flights to that young gentleman's modest lodgings, and they stood
together in a study lined with books and hung with prints and casts from the antique. Odo threw
off his dusty coat and called the servant to remove his boots.

"Will you read the lady's letters, cavaliere?" Cantapresto asked, obsequiously offering them
on a lacquered tray.

"No--no: write first. Begin 'My angelic lady'--"

"You began the last letter in those terms, cavaliere," his scribe reminded him with suspended pen.

"The devil! Well, then--wait. 'Throned goddess'--"

"You ended the last letter with 'throned goddess.'"

"Curse the last letter! Why did you send it?" Odo sprang up and slipped his arms into the dress-tunic
his servant had brought him. "Write anything. Say that I am suddenly summoned by--"

"By the Count Alfieri?" Cantapresto suggested.

"Count Alfieri? Is he here? He has returned?"

"He arrived an hour ago, cavaliere. He sent you this Moorish scimitar with his compliments.
I understand he comes recently from Spain."

"Imbecile, not to have told me before! Quick, Antonio--my gloves, my sword." Odo, flushed and
animated, buckled his sword-belt with impatient hands. "Write anything--anything to free my
evening. Tomorrow morning--tomorrow morning I shall wait on the lady. Let Antonio carry her
a nosegay with my compliments. Did you see him Cantapresto? Was he in good health? Does he
sup at home? He left no message? Quick, Antonio, a chair!" he cried with his hand on the door.

Odo had acquired, at twenty-two, a nobility of carriage not incompatible with the boyish candour
of his gaze, and becomingly set off by the brilliant dress-uniform of a lieutenant in one of
the provincial regiments. He was tall and fair, and a certain languor of complexion, inherited
from his father's house, was corrected in him by the vivacity of the Donnaz blood. This now
sparkled in his grey eye, and gave a glow to his cheek, as he stepped across the threshold,
treading on a sprig of cherry-blossom that had dropped unnoticed to the floor.

Cantapresto, looking after him, caught sight of the flowers and kicked them aside with a contemptuous
toe. "I sometimes think he botanises," he murmured with a shrug. "The Lord knows what queer
notions he gets out of all these books!"

2.2.

As an infusion of fresh blood to Odo were Alfieri's meteoric returns to Turin. Life moved languidly
in the strait-laced city, even to a young gentleman a-tiptoe for adventure and framed to elicit
it as the hazel-wand draws water. Not that vulgar distractions were lacking. The town, as Cantapresto
had long since advised him, had its secret leniencies, its posterns opening on clandestine
pleasure; but there was that in Odo which early turned him from such cheap counterfeits of
living. He accepted the diversions of his age, but with a clear sense of their worth; and the
youth who calls his pleasures by their true name has learned the secret of resisting them.

Alfieri's coming set deeper springs in motion. His follies and extravagances were on a less
provincial scale than those of Odo's daily associates. The breath of a freer life clung to
him and his allusions were so many glimpses into a larger world. His political theories were
but the enlargement of his private grievances, but the mere play of criticism on accepted institutions
was an exercise more novel and exhilirating than the wildest ride on one of his half-tamed
thorough-breds. Still chiefly a man of pleasure, and the slave, as always, of some rash infatuation,
Alfieri was already shaking off the intellectual torpor of his youth; and the first stirrings
of his curiosity roused an answering passion in Odo. Their tastes were indeed divergent, for
to that external beauty which was to Odo the very bloom of life, Alfieri remained insensible;
while of its imaginative counterpart, its prolongation in the realm of thought and emotion,
he had but the most limited conception. But his love of ringing deeds woke the chivalrous strain
in Odo, and his vague celebration of Liberty, that unknown goddess to whom altars were everywhere
building, chimed with the other's scorn of oppression and injustice. So far, it is true, their
companionship had been mainly one of pleasure; but the temper of both gave their follies that
provisional character which saves them from vulgarity.

Odo, who had slept late on the morning after his friend's return, was waked by the pompous
mouthing of certain lines just then on every lip in Italy:--

    Meet was it that, its ancient seats forsaking,
    An Empire should set forth with dauntless sail,
    And braving tempests and the deep's betrayal,
    Break down the barriers of inviolate worlds--
    That Cortez and Pizarro should esteem
    The blood of man a trivial sacrifice
    When, flinging down from their ancestral thrones
    Incas and Mexicans of royal line,
    They wrecked two kingdoms to refresh thy palate--

They were the verses in which the abate Parini, in his satire of The Morning, apostrophizes
the cup of chocolate which the lacquey presents to his master. Cantapresto had in fact just
entered with a cup of this beverage, and Alfieri, who stood at his friend's bedside with unpowdered
locks and a fashionable undress of Parisian cut, snatching the tray from the soprano's hands
presented it to Odo in an attitude of mock servility.

The young man sprang up laughing. It was the fashion to applaud Parini's verse in the circles
at which his satire was aimed, and none recited his mock heroics with greater zest than the
young gentlemen whose fopperies he ridiculed. Odo's toilet was indeed a rite almost as elaborate
as that of Parini's hero; and this accomplished, he was on his way to fulfil the very duty
the poet most unsparingly derides: the morning visit of the cicisbeo to his lady; but meanwhile
he liked to show himself above the follies of his class by joining in the laugh against them.
When he issued from the powder-room in his gold-laced uniform, with scented gloves and carefully-adjusted
queue, he presented the image of a young gentleman so clearly equal to the most flattering
emergencies that Alfieri broke into a smile of half-ironical approval. "I see, my dear cavaliere,
that it were idle to invite you to try one of the new Arabs I have brought with me from Spain,
since it is plain other duties engage you; but I come to lay claim to your evening."

Odo hesitated. "The Queen holds a circle this evening," he said.

"And her lady-in-waiting is in attendance?" returned Alfieri. "And the lady-in-waiting's gentleman-in-waiting
also?"

Odo made an impatient movement. "What inducements do you offer?" said he carelessly.

Alfieri stepped close and tapped him on the sleeve. "Meet me at ten o'clock at the turn of
the lane behind the Corpus Domini. Wear a cloak and a mask, and leave this gentleman at home
with a flask of Asti." He glanced at Cantapresto.

Odo hesitated a moment. He knew well enough where such midnight turnings led, and across the
vision evoked by his friend's words a girl's face flitted suddenly.

"Is that all?" he said with a shrug. "You find me, I fear, in no humour for such exploits."

Alfieri smiled. "And if I say that I have promised to bring you?"

"Promised--?"

"To one as chary of exacting such pledges as I of giving them. If I say that you stake your
life on the adventure, and that the stake is not too great for the reward--?"

His sallow face had reddened with excitement, and Odo's forehead reflected the flush. Was it
possible--? But the thought set him tingling with disgust.

"Why, you say little," he cried lightly, "at the rate at which I value my life."

Alfieri turned on him. "If your life is worthless; make it worth something!" he exclaimed.
"I offer you the opportunity tonight."

"What opportunity?"

"The sight of a face that men have laid down their lives to see."

Odo laughed and buckled on his sword. "If you answer for the risk, I agree to take it," said
he. "At ten o'clock then, behind the Corpus Domini."

If the ladies whom gallant gentlemen delight to serve could guess what secret touchstones of
worth these same gentlemen sometimes carry into the adored presence, many a handsome head would
be carried with less assurance, and many a fond exaction less confidently imposed. If, for
instance, the Countess Clarice di Tournanches, whose high-coloured image reflected itself so
complacently in her Venetian toilet-glass, could have known that the Cavaliere Odo Valsecca's
devoted glance saw her through the medium of a countenance compared to which her own revealed
the most unexpected shortcomings, she might have received him with less airy petulance of manner.
But how could so accomplished a mistress doubt the permanence of her rule? The Countess Clarice,
in singling out young Odo Valsecca (to the despair of a score of more experienced cavaliers)
had done him an honour that she could no more imagine his resigning than an adventurer a throne
to which he is unexpectedly raised. She was a finished example of the pretty woman who views
the universe as planned for her convenience. What could go wrong in a world where noble ladies
lived in palaces hung with tapestry and damask, with powdered lacqueys to wait on them, a turbaned
blackamoor to tend their parrots and monkeys, a coronet-coach at the door to carry them to
mass or the ridotto, and a handsome cicisbeo to display on the promenade? Everything had combined
to strengthen the Countess Clarice's faith in the existing order of things. Her husband, Count
Roberto di Tournanches, was one of the King's equerries and distinguished for his brilliant
career as an officer of the Piedmontese army--a man marked for the highest favours in a society
where military influences were paramount. Passing at sixteen from an aristocratic convent to
the dreary magnificence of the Palazzo Tournanches, Clarice had found herself a lady-in-waiting
at the dullest court in Europe and the wife of an army officer engrossed in his profession,
and pledged by etiquette to the service of another lady. Odo Valsecca represented her escape
from this bondage--the dash of romance and folly in a life of elegant formalities; and the
Countess, who would not have sacrificed to him one of her rights as a court-lady or a nobil
donna of the Golden Book, regarded him as the reward which Providence accords to a well-regulated
conduct.

Her room, when Odo entered it on taking leave of Alfieri, was crowded, as usual at that hour,
with the hangers-on of the noble lady's lever: the abatino in lace ruffles, handing about his
latest rhymed acrostic, the jeweller displaying a set of enamelled buckles newly imported from
Paris, and the black-breeched doctor with white bands who concocted remedies for the Countess's
vapours and megrims. These personages, grouped about the toilet-table where the Countess sat
under the hands of a Parisian hairdresser, were picturesquely relieved against the stucco panelling
and narrow mirrors of the apartment, with its windows looking on a garden set with mossy statues.
To Odo, however, the scene suggested the most tedious part of his day's routine. The compliments
to be exchanged, the silly verses to be praised, the gewgaws from Paris to be admired, were
all contrasted in his mind with the vision of that other life which had come to him on the
hillside of the Superga. On this mood the Countess Clarice's sarcasms fell without effect.
To be pouted at because he had failed to attend the promenade of the Valentino was to Odo but
a convenient pretext for excusing himself from the Queen's circle that evening. He had engaged
with little ardour to join Alfieri in what he guessed to be a sufficiently commonplace adventure;
but as he listened to the Countess's chatter about the last minuet-step, and the relative merits
of sanspareil water and oil-of-lilies, of gloves from Blois and Vendome, his impatience hailed
any alternative as a release. Meanwhile, however, long hours of servitude intervened. The lady's
toilet completed, to the adjusting of the last patch, he must attend her to dinner, where,
placed at her side, he was awarded the honour of carving the roast; must sit through two hours
of biribi in company with the abatino, the doctor, and half-a-dozen parasites of the noble
table; and for two hours more must ride in her gilt coach up and down the promenade of the
Valentino.

Escaping from this ceremonial, with the consciousness that it must be repeated on the morrow,
Odo was seized with that longing for freedom that makes the first street-corner an invitation
to flight. How he envied Alfieri, whose travelling-carriage stood at the beck of such moods!
Odo's scant means forbade evasion, even had his military duties not kept him in Turin. He felt
himself no more than a puppet dancing to the tune of Parini's satire, a puny doll condemned,
as the strings of custom pulled, to feign the gestures of immortal passions.

2.3.

The night was moonless, with cold dashes of rain, and though the streets of Turin were well-lit
no lantern-ray reached the windings of the lane behind the Corpus Domini.

As Odo, alone under the wall of the church, awaited his friend's arrival, he wondered what
risk had constrained the reckless Alfieri to such unwonted caution. Italy was at that time
a vast network of espionage, and the Piedmontese capital passed for one of the best-policed
cities in Europe; but even on a moonless night the law distinguished between the noble pleasure-seeker
and the obscure delinquent whose fate it was to pay the other's shot. Odo knew that he would
probably be followed and his movements reported to the authorities; but he was almost equally
certain that there would be no active interference in his affairs. What chiefly puzzled him
was Alfieri's insistence that Cantapresto should not be privy to the adventure. The soprano
had long been the confidant of his pupil's escapades, and his adroitness had often been of
service in intrigues such as that on which Odo now fancied himself engaged. The place, again,
perplexed him: a sober quarter of convents and private dwellings, in the very eye of the royal
palace, scarce seeming the theatre for a light adventure. These incongruities revived his former
wonder; nor was this dispelled by Alfieri's approach.

The poet, masked and unattended, rejoined his friend without a word; and Odo guessed in him
an eye and ear alert for pursuit. Guided by the pressure of his arm, Odo was hurried round
the bend of the lane, up a transverse alley and across a little square lost between high shuttered
buildings. Alfieri, at his first word, gripped his arm with a backward glance; then urged him
on under the denser blackness of an arched passage-way, at the end of which an oil-light glimmered.
Here a gate in a wall confronted them. It opened at Alfieri's tap and Odo scented wet box-borders
and felt the gravel of a path under foot. The gate was at once locked behind them and they
entered the ground-floor of a house as dark as the garden. Here a maid-servant of close aspect
met them with a lamp and preceded them upstairs to a bare landing hung with charts and portulani.
On Odo's flushed anticipations this antechamber, which seemed the approach to some pedant's
cabinet, had an effect undeniably chilling; but Alfieri, heedless of his surprise, had cast
off cloak and mask, and now led the way into a long conventual-looking room lined with book-shelves.
A knot of middle-aged gentlemen of sober dress and manner, gathered about a cabinet of fossils
in the centre of this apartment, looked up at the entrance of the two friends; then the group
divided, and Odo with a start recognised the girl he had seen on the road to the Superga.

She bowed gravely to the young men. "My father," said she, in a clear voice without trace of
diffidence, "has gone to his study for a book, but will be with you in a moment."

She wore a dress in keeping with her manner, its black stuff folds and the lawn kerchief crossed
on her bosom giving height and authority to her slight figure. The dark unpowdered hair drawn
back over a cushion made a severer setting for her face than the fluctuating brim of her shade-hat;
and this perhaps added to the sense of estrangement with which Odo gazed at her; but she met
his look with a smile, and instantly the rosy girl flashed through her grave exterior.

"Here is my father," said she; and her companion of the previous day stepped into the room
with several folios under his arm.

Alfieri turned to Odo. "This, my dear Odo," said he, "is my distinguished friend, Professor
Vivaldi, who has done us the honour of inviting us to his house." He took the Professor's hand.
"I have brought you," he continued, "the friend you were kind enough to include in your invitation--the
Cavaliere Odo Valsecca."

Vivaldi bowed. "Count Alfieri's friends," said he, "are always welcome to my house; though
I fear there is here little to interest a young gentleman of the Cavaliere Valsecca's years."
And Odo detected a shade of doubt in his glance.

"The Cavaliere Valsecca," Alfieri smilingly rejoined, "is above his years in wit and learning,
and I answer for his interest as I do for his discretion."

The Professor bowed again. "Count Alfieri, sir," he said, "has doubtless explained to you the
necessity that obliges me to be so private in receiving my friends; and now perhaps you will
join these gentlemen in examining some rare fossil fish newly sent me from the Monte Bolca."

Odo murmured a civil rejoinder; but the wonder into which the sight of the young girl had thrown
him was fast verging on stupefaction. What mystery was here? What necessity compelled an elderly
professor to receive his scientific friends like a band of political conspirators? How above
all, in the light of the girl's presence, was Odo to interpret Alfieri's extravagant allusions
to the nature of their visit?

The company having returned to the cabinet of fossils, none seemed to observe his disorder
but the young lady who was its cause; and seeing him stand apart she advanced with a smile,
saying, "Perhaps you would rather look at some of my father's other curiosities."

Simple as the words were, they failed to restore Odo's self-possession, and for a moment he
made no answer. Perhaps she partly guessed the cause of his commotion; yet it was not so much
her beauty that silenced him, as the spirit that seemed to inhabit it. Nature, in general so
chary of her gifts, so prone to use one good feature as the palliation of a dozen deficiencies,
to wed the eloquent lip with the ineffectual eye, had indeed compounded her of all fine meanings,
making each grace the complement of another and every outward charm expressive of some inward
quality. Here was as little of the convent-bred miss as of the flippant and vapourish fine
lady; and any suggestion of a less fair alternative vanished before such candid graces. Odo's
confusion had in truth sprung from Alfieri's ambiguous hints; and these shrivelling to nought
in the gaze that encountered his, constraint gave way to a sense of wondering pleasure.

"I should like to see whatever you will show me," said he, as simply as one child speaking
to another; and she answered in the same tone, "Then we'll glance at my father's collections
before the serious business of the evening begins."

With these words she began to lead him about the room, pointing out and explaining the curiosities
it contained. It was clear that, like many scholars of his day, Professor Vivaldi was something
of an eclectic in his studies, for while one table held a fine orrery, a cabinet of coins stood
near, and the book-shelves were surmounted by specimens of coral and petrified wood. Of all
these rarities his daughter had a word to say, and though her explanations were brief and without
affectation of pedantry, they put her companion's ignorance to the blush. It must be owned,
however, that had his learning been a match for hers it would have stood him in poor stead
at the moment; his faculties being lost in the wonder of hearing such discourse from such lips.
To his compliments on her erudition she returned with a smile that what learning she had was
no merit, since she had been bred in a library; to which she suddenly added:--"You are not
unknown to me, Cavaliere; but I never thought to see you here."

The words renewed her hearer's surprise; but giving him no time to reply, she went on in a
lower tone:--"You are young and the world is fair before you. Have you considered that before
risking yourself among us?"

She coloured under Odo's wondering gaze, and at his random rejoinder that it was a risk any
man would gladly take without considering, she turned from him with a gesture in which he fancied
a shade of disappointment.

By this they had reached the cabinet of fossils, about which the interest of the other guests
still seemed to centre. Alfieri, indeed, paced the farther end of the room with the air of
awaiting the despatch of some tedious business; but the others were engaged in an animated
discussion necessitating frequent reference to the folios Vivaldi had brought from his study.

The latter turned to Odo as though to include him in the group. "I do not know, sir," said
he, "whether you have found leisure to study these enigmas of that mysterious Sphinx, the earth;
for though Count Alfieri has spoken to me of your unusual acquirements, I understand your tastes
have hitherto lain rather in the direction of philosophy and letters;" and on Odo's prompt
admission of ignorance, he courteously continued: "The physical sciences seem, indeed, less
likely to appeal to the imaginative and poetical faculty in man, and, on the other hand, religion
has appeared to prohibit their too close investigation; yet I question if any thoughtful mind
can enter on the study of these curious phenomena without feeling, as it were, an affinity
between such investigations and the most abstract forms of thought. For whether we regard these
figured stones as of terriginous origin, either mere lusus naturae, or mineral formations produced
by a plastic virtue latent in the earth, or whether as in fact organic substances lapidified
by the action of water; in either case, what speculations must their origin excite, leading
us back into that dark and unexplored period of time when the breath of Creation was yet moving
on the face of the waters!"

Odo had listened but confusedly to the first words of this discourse; but his intellectual
curiosity was too great not to respond to such an appeal, and all his perplexities slipped
from him in the pursuit of the Professor's thought.

One of the other guests seemed struck by his look of attention. "My dear Vivaldi," said this
gentleman, laying down a fossil, and fixing his gaze on Odo while he addressed the Professor,
"why use such superannuated formulas in introducing a neophyte to a study designed to subvert
the very foundations of the Mosaic cosmogony? I take it the Cavaliere is one of us, since he
is here this evening: why, then, permit him to stray even for a moment in the labyrinth of
theological error?"

The Professor's deprecating murmur was cut short by an outburst from another of the learned
group, a red-faced spectacled personage in a doctor's gown.

"Pardon me for suggesting," he exclaimed, "that the conditional terms in which our host was
careful to present his hypotheses are better suited to the instruction of the neophyte than
our learned friend's positive assertions. But if the Vulcanists are to claim the Cavaliere
Valsecca, may not the Diluvials also have a hearing? How often must it be repeated that theology
as well as physical science is satisfied by the Diluvial explanation of the origin of petrified
organisms, whereas inexorable logic compels the Vulcanists to own that their thesis is subversive
of all dogmatic belief?"

The first speaker answered with a gesture of disdain. "My dear doctor, you occupy a chair in
our venerated University. From that exalted cathedra the Mosaic theory of Creation must still
be expounded; but in the security of these surroundings--the catacombs of the new faith--why
keep up the forms of an obsolete creed? As long ago as Pythagoras, man was taught that all
things were in a state of flux, without end as without beginning, and must we still, after
more than two thousand years, pretend to regard the universe as some gigantic toy manufactured
in six days by a Superhuman Artisan, who is presently to destroy it at his pleasure?"

"Sir," cried the other, flushing from red to purple at this assault, "I know not on what ground
you insinuate that my private convictions differ from my public doctrine--"

But here, with a firmness tempered by the most scrupulous courtesy, Professor Vivaldi intervened.

"Gentlemen," said he, "the discussion in which you are engaged, interesting as it is, must,
I fear, distract us from the true purpose of our meeting. I am happy to offer my house as the
asylum of all free research; but you must remember that the first object of these reunions
is, not the special study of any one branch of modern science, but the application of physical
investigation to the origin and destiny of man. In other words, we ask the study of nature
to lead us to the knowledge of ourselves; and it is because we approach this great problem
from a point as yet unsanctioned by dogmatic authority, that I am reluctantly obliged"--and
here he turned to Odo with a smile--"to throw a veil of privacy over these inoffensive meetings."

Here at last was the key to the enigma. The gentlemen assembled in Professor Vivaldi's rooms
were met there to discuss questions not safely aired in public. They were conspirators indeed,
but the liberation they planned was intellectual rather than political; though the acuter among
them doubtless saw whither such innovations tended. Meanwhile they were content to linger in
that wide field of speculation which the development of the physical sciences had recently
opened to philosophic thought. As, at the Revival of Learning, the thinker imprisoned in mediaeval
dialectics suddenly felt under his feet the firm ground of classic argument, so, in the eighteenth
century, philosophy, long suspended in the void of metaphysic, touched earth again and, Antaeus-like,
drew fresh life from the contact. It was clear that Professor Vivaldi, whose very name had
been unknown to Odo, was an important figure in the learned world, and one uniting the tact
and firmness necessary to control those dissensions from which philosophy itself does not preserve
its disciples. His words calmed the two disputants who were preparing to do battle over Odo's
unborn scientific creed, and the talk growing more general, the Professor turned to his daughter,
saying, "My Fulvia, is the study prepared?"

She signed her assent, and her father led the way to an inner cabinet, where seats were drawn
about a table scattered with pamphlets, gazettes and dictionaries, and set out with modest
refreshments. Here began a conversation ranging from chemistry to taxation, and from the perfectibility
of man to the secondary origin of the earth's surface. It was evident to Odo that, though the
Professor's guests represented all shades of opinion, some being clearly loth to leave the
safe anchorage of orthodoxy, while others already braved the seas of free enquiry, yet all
were at one as to the need of unhampered action and discussion. Odo's dormant curiosity woke
with a start at the summons of fresh knowledge. Here were worlds to explore, or rather the
actual world about him, a region then stranger and more unfamiliar than the lost Atlantis of
fable. Liberty was the word on every lip, and if to some it represented the right to doubt
the Diluvial origin of fossils, to others that of reforming the penal code, to a third (as
to Alfieri) merely personal independence and relief from civil restrictions; yet these fragmentary
conceptions seemed, to Odo's excited fancy, to blend in the vision of a New Light encircling
the whole horizon of thought. He understood at last Alfieri's allusion to a face for the sight
of which men were ready to lay down their lives; and if, as he walked home before dawn, those
heavenly lineaments were blent in memory with features of a mortal cast, yet these were pure
and grave enough to stand for the image of the goddess.

2.4.

Professor Orazio Vivaldi, after filling with distinction the chair of Philosophy at the University
of Turin, had lately resigned his office that he might have leisure to complete a long-contemplated
work on the Origin of Civilisation. His house was the meeting-place of a society calling itself
of the Honey-Bees and ostensibly devoted to the study of the classical poets, from whose pages
the members were supposed to cull mellifluous nourishment; but under this guise the so-called
literati had for some time indulged in free discussion of religious and scientific questions.
The Academy of the Honey-Bees comprised among its members all the independent thinkers of Turin:
doctors of law, of philosophy and medicine, chemists, philologists and naturalists, with one
or two members of the nobility, who, like Alfieri, felt, or affected, an interest in the graver
problems of life, and could be trusted not to betray the true character of the association.

These details Odo learned the next day from Alfieri; who went on to say that, owing to the
increased vigilance of the government, and to the banishment of several distinguished men accused
by the Church of heretical or seditious opinions, the Honey-Bees had of late been obliged to
hold their meetings secretly, it being even rumoured that Vivaldi, who was their president,
had resigned his professorship and withdrawn behind the shelter of literary employment in order
to elude the observation of the authorities. Men had not yet forgotten the fate of the Neapolitan
historian, Pietro Giannone, who for daring to attack the censorship and the growth of the temporal
power had been driven from Naples to Vienna, from Vienna back to Venice, and at length, at
the prompting of the Holy See, lured across the Piedmontese frontier by Charles Emmanuel of
Savoy, and imprisoned for life in the citadel of Turin. The memory of his tragic history--most
of all, perhaps, of his recantation and the "devout ending" to which solitude and persecution
had forced the freest spirit of his day--hovered like a warning on the horizon of thought and
constrained political speculation to hide itself behind the study of fashionable trifles. Alfieri
had lately joined the association of the Honey-Bees, and the Professor, at his suggestion,
had invited Odo, for whose discretion his friend declared himself ready to answer. The Honey-Bees
were in fact desirous of attracting young men of rank who felt an interest in scientific or
economic problems; for it was hoped that in this manner the new ideas might imperceptibly permeate
the class whose privileges and traditions presented the chief obstacle to reform. In France,
it was whispered, free-thinkers and political agitators were the honoured guests of the nobility,
who eagerly embraced their theories and applied them to the remedy of social abuses. Only by
similar means could the ideals of the Piedmontese reformers be realised; and in those early
days of universal illusion none appeared to suspect the danger of arming inexperienced hands
with untried weapons. Utopia was already in sight; and all the world was setting out for it
as for some heavenly picnic ground.

Of Vivaldi himself, Alfieri spoke with extravagant admiration. His affable exterior was said
to conceal the moral courage of one of Plutarch's heroes. He was a man after the antique pattern,
ready to lay down fortune, credit and freedom in the defence of his convictions. "An Agamemnon,"
Alfieri exclaimed, "who would not hesitate to sacrifice his daughter to obtain a favourable
wind for his enterprise!"

The metaphor was perhaps scarcely to Odo's taste; but at least it gave him the chance for which
he had waited. "And the daughter?" he asked.

"The lovely doctoress?" said Alfieri carelessly. "Oh, she's one of your prodigies of female
learning, such as our topsy-turvy land produces: an incipient Laura Bassi or Gaetana Agnesi,
to name the most distinguished of their tribe; though I believe that hitherto her father's
good sense or her own has kept her from aspiring to academic honours. The beautiful Fulvia
is a good daughter, and devotes herself, I'm told, to helping Vivaldi in his work; a far more
becoming employment for one of her age and sex than defending Latin theses before a crew of
ribald students."

In this Odo was of one mind with him; for though Italy was used to the spectacle of the Improvisatrice
and the female doctor of philosophy, it is doubtful if the character was one in which any admirer
cared to see his divinity figure. Odo, at any rate, felt a distinct satisfaction in learning
that Fulvia Vivaldi had thus far made no public display of her learning. How much pleasanter
to picture her as her father's aid, perhaps a sharer in his dreams: a vestal cherishing the
flame of Liberty in the secret sanctuary of the goddess! He scarce knew as yet of what his
feeling for the girl was compounded. The sentiment she had roused was one for which his experience
had no name: an emotion in which awe mingled with an almost boyish sense of fellowship, sex
as yet lurking out of sight as in some hidden ambush. It was perhaps her association with a
world so unfamiliar and alluring that lent her for the moment her greatest charm. Odo's imagination
had been profoundly stirred by what he had heard and seen at the meeting of the Honey-Bees.
That impatience with the vanity of his own pursuits and with the injustice of existing conditions,
which hovered like a phantom at the feast of life, had at last found form and utterance. Parini's
satires and the bitter mockery of the "Frusta Letteraria" were but instruments of demolition;
but the arguments of the Professor's friends had that constructive quality so appealing to
the urgent temper of youth. Was the world in ruins? Then here was a plan to rebuild it. Was
humanity in chains? Behold the angel on the threshold of the prison!

Odo, too impatient to await the next reunion of the Honey-Bees, sought out and frequented those
among the members whose conversation had chiefly attracted him. They were grave men, of studious
and retiring habit, leading the frugal life of the Italian middle-class, a life in dignified
contrast to the wasteful and aimless existence of the nobility. Odo's sensitiveness to outward
impressions made him peculiarly alive to this contrast. None was more open than he to the seducements
of luxurious living, the polish of manners, the tacit exclusion of all that is ugly or distressing;
but it seemed to him that fine living should be but the flower of fine feeling, and that such
external graces, when they adorned a dull and vapid society, were as incongruous as the royal
purple on a clown. Among certain of his new friends he found a clumsiness of manner somewhat
absurdly allied with an attempt at Roman austerity; but he was fair-minded enough to see that
the middle-class doctor or lawyer who tries to play the Cicero is, after all, a more respectable
figure than the Marquess who apes Caligula or Commodus. Still, his lurking dilettantism made
him doubly alive to the elegance of the Palazzo Tournanches when he went thither from a coarse
meal in the stuffy dining-parlour of one of his new acquaintances; as he never relished the
discourse of the latter more than after an afternoon in the society of the Countess's parasites.

Alfieri's allusions to the learned ladies for whom Italy was noted made Odo curious to meet
the wives and daughters of his new friends; for he knew it was only in their class that women
received something more than the ordinary conventual education; and he felt a secret desire
to compare Fulvia Vivaldi with other young girls of her kind. Learned ladies he met, indeed;
for though the women-folk of some of the philosophers were content to cook and darn for them
(and perhaps secretly burn a candle in their behalf to Saint Thomas Aquinas or Saint Dominick,
refuters of heresy), there were others who aspired to all the honours of scholarship, and would
order about their servant-girls in Tuscan, and scold their babies in Ciceronian Latin. Among
these fair grammarians, however, he met none that wore her learning lightly. They were forever
tripping in the folds of their doctors' gowns, and delivering their most trivial views ex cathedra;
and too often the poor philosophers, their lords and fathers, cowered under their harangues
like frightened boys under the tongue of a schoolmaster.

It was in fact only in the household of Orazio Vivaldi that Odo found the simplicity and grace
of living for which he longed. Alfieri had warned him not to visit the Professor too often,
since the latter, being under observation, might be compromised by the assiduity of his friends.
Odo therefore waited for some days before presenting himself, and when he did so it was at
the angelus, when the streets were crowded and a man's comings and goings the less likely to
be marked. He found Vivaldi reading with his daughter in the long library where the Honey-Bees
held their meetings; but Fulvia at once withdrew, nor did she show herself again during Odo's
visit. It was clear that, proud of her as Vivaldi was, he had no wish to parade her attainments,
and that in her daily life she maintained the Italian habit of seclusion; but to Odo she was
everywhere present in the quiet room with its well-ordered books and curiosities, and the scent
of flowers rising through the shuttered windows. He was sensible of an influence permeating
even the inanimate objects about him, so that they seemed to reflect the spirit of those who
dwelt there. No room had given him this sense of companionship since he had spent his boyish
holidays in the old Count Benedetto's apartments; but it was of another, intangible world that
his present surroundings spoke. Vivaldi received him kindly and asked him to repeat his visit;
and Odo returned as often as he thought prudent.

The Professor's conversation engaged him deeply. Vivaldi's familiarity with French speculative
literature, and with its sources in the experiential philosophy of the English school, gave
Odo his first clear conception of the origin and tendency of the new movement. This coordination
of scattered ideas was aided by his readings in the Encyclopaedia, which, though placed on
the Index in Piedmont, was to be found behind the concealed panels of more than one private
library. From his talks with Alfieri, and from the pages of Plutarch, he had gained a certain
insight into the Stoical view of reason as the measure of conduct, and of the inherent sufficiency
of virtue as its own end. He now learned that all about him men were endeavouring to restore
the human spirit to that lost conception of its dignity; and he longed to join the band of
new crusaders who had set out to recover the tomb of truth from the forces of superstition.
The distinguishing mark of eighteenth-century philosophy was its eagerness to convert its acquisitions
in every branch of knowledge into instruments of practical beneficence; and this quality appealed
peculiarly to Odo, who had ever been moved by abstract theories only as they explained or modified
the destiny of man. Vivaldi, pleased by his new pupil's eagerness to learn, took pains to set
before him this aspect of the struggle.

"You will now see," he said, after one of their long talks about the Encyclopaedists, "why
we who have at heart the mental and social regeneration of our countrymen are so desirous of
making a concerted effort against the established system. It is only by united action that
we can prevail. The bravest mob of independent fighters has little chance against a handful
of disciplined soldiers, and the Church is perfectly logical in seeing her chief danger in
the Encyclopaedia's systematised marshalling of scattered truths. As long as the attacks on
her authority were isolated, and as it were sporadic, she had little to fear even from the
assaults of genius; but the most ordinary intellect may find a use and become a power in the
ranks of an organised opposition. Seneca tells us the slaves in ancient Rome were at one time
so numerous that the government prohibited their wearing a distinctive dress lest they should
learn their strength and discover that the city was in their power; and the Church knows that
when the countless spirits she has enslaved without subduing have once learned their number
and efficiency they will hold her doctrines at their mercy.--The Church again," he continued,
"has proved her astuteness in making faith the gift of grace and not the result of reason.
By so doing she placed herself in a position which was well-nigh impregnable till the school
of Newton substituted observation for intuition and his followers showed with increasing clearness
the inability of the human mind to apprehend anything outside the range of experience. The
ultimate claim of the Church rests on the hypothesis of an intuitive faculty in man. Disprove
the existence of this faculty, and reason must remain the supreme test of truth. Against reason
the fabric of theological doctrine cannot long hold out, and the Church's doctrinal authority
once shaken, men will no longer fear to test by ordinary rules the practical results of her
teaching. We have not joined the great army of truth to waste our time in vain disputations
over metaphysical subtleties. Our aim is, by freeing the mind of man from superstition to relieve
him from the practical abuses it entails. As it is impossible to examine any fiscal or industrial
problem without discovering that the chief obstacle to improvement lies in the Church's countless
privileges and exemptions, so in every department of human activity we find some inveterate
wrong taking shelter under the claim of a divinely-revealed authority. This claim demolished,
the stagnant current of human progress will soon burst its barriers and set with a mighty rush
toward the wide ocean of truth and freedom..."

That general belief in the perfectibility of man which cheered the eighteenth-century thinkers
in their struggle for intellectual liberty coloured with a delightful brightness this vision
of a renewed humanity. It threw its beams on every branch of research, and shone like an aureole
round those who laid down fortune and advancement to purchase the new redemption of mankind.
Foremost among these, as Odo now learned, were many of his own countrymen. In his talks with
Vivaldi he first explored the course of Italian thought and heard the names of the great jurists,
Vico and Gravina, and of his own contemporaries, Filangieri, Verri and Beccaria. Vivaldi lent
him Beccaria's famous volume and several numbers of the "Caffe," the brilliant gazette which
Verri and his associates were then publishing in Milan, and in which all the questions of the
day, theological, economic and literary, were discussed with a freedom possible only under
the lenient Austrian rule.

"Ah," Vivaldi cried, "Milan is indeed the home of the free spirit, and were I not persuaded
that a man's first duty is to improve the condition of his own city and state, I should long
ago have left this unhappy kingdom; indeed I sometimes fancy I may yet serve my own people
better by proclaiming the truth openly at a distance than by whispering it in their midst."

It was a surprise to Odo to learn that the new ideas had already taken such hold in Italy,
and that some of the foremost thinkers on scientific and economic subjects were among his own
countrymen. Like all eighteenth-century Italians of his class he had been taught to look to
France as the source of all culture, intellectual and social; and he was amazed to find that
in jurisprudence, and in some of the natural sciences, Italy led the learning of Europe.

Once or twice Fulvia showed herself for a moment; but her manner was retiring and almost constrained,
and her father always contrived an excuse for dismissing her. This was the more noticeable
as she continued to appear at the meetings of the Honey-Bees, where she joined freely in the
conversation, and sometimes diverted the guests by playing on the harpsichord or by recitations
from the poets; all with such art and grace, and withal so much simplicity, that it was clear
she was accustomed to the part. Odo was thus driven to the not unflattering conclusion that
she had been instructed to avoid his company; and after the first disappointment he was too
honest to regret it. He was deeply drawn to the girl; but what part could she play in the life
of a man of his rank? The cadet of an impoverished house, it was unlikely that he would marry;
and should he do so, custom forbade even the thought of taking a wife outside of his class.
Had he been admitted to free intercourse with Fulvia, love might have routed such prudent counsels;
but in the society of her father's associates, where she moved, as in a halo of learning, amid
the respectful admiration of middle-aged philosophers and jurists, she seemed as inaccessible
as a young Minerva.

Odo, at first, had been careful not to visit Vivaldi too often; but the Professor's conversation
was so instructive, and his library so inviting, that inclination got the better of prudence,
and the young man fell into the habit of turning almost daily down the lane behind the Corpus
Domini. Vivaldi, too proud to betray any concern for his personal safety, showed no sign of
resenting the frequency of these visits; indeed, he received Odo with an increasing cordiality
that, to an older observer, might have betokened an effort to hide his apprehension.

One afternoon, escaping later than usual from the Valentino, Odo had again bent toward the
quiet quarter behind the palace. He was afoot, with a cloak over his laced coat, and the day
being Easter Monday the streets were filled with a throng of pleasure-seekers amid whom it
seemed easy enough for a man to pass unnoticed. Odo, as he crossed the Piazza Castello, thought
it had never presented a gayer scene. Booths with brightly-striped awnings had been set up
under the arcades, which were thronged with idlers of all classes; court-coaches dashed across
the square or rolled in and out of the palace-gates; and the Palazzo Madama, lifting against
the sunset its ivory-tinted columns and statues, seemed rather some pictured fabric of Claude's
or Bibbiena's than an actual building of brick and marble. The turn of a corner carried him
from this spectacle into the solitude of a by-street where his own tread was the only sound.
He walked on carelessly; but suddenly he heard what seemed an echo of his step. He stopped
and faced about. No one was in sight but a blind beggar crouching at the side-door of the Corpus
Domini. Odo walked on, listening, and again he heard the step, and again turned to find himself
alone. He tried to fancy that his ear had tricked him; but he knew too much of the subtle methods
of Italian espionage not to feel a secret uneasiness. His better judgment warned him back;
but the desire to spend a pleasant hour prevailed. He took a turn through the neighbouring
streets, in the hope of diverting suspicion, and ten minutes later was at the Professor's gate.

It opened at once, and to his amazement Fulvia stood before him. She had thrown a black mantle
over her head, and her face looked pale and vivid in the fading light. Surprise for a moment
silenced Odo, and before he could speak the girl, without pausing to close the gate, had drawn
him toward her and flung her arms about his neck. In the first disorder of his senses he was
conscious only of seeking her lips; but an instant later he knew it was no kiss of love that
met his own, and he felt her tremble violently in his arms. He saw in a flash that he was on
unknown ground; but his one thought was that Fulvia was in trouble and looked to him for aid.
He gently freed himself from her hold and tried to shape a soothing question; but she caught
his arm and, laying a hand over his mouth, drew him across the garden and into the house. The
lower floor stood dark and empty. He followed Fulvia up the stairs and into the library, which
was also empty. The shutters stood wide, admitting the evening freshness and a drowsy scent
of jasmine from the garden.

Odo could not control a thrill of strange anticipation as he found himself alone in this silent
room with the girl whose heart had so lately beat against his own. She had sunk into a chair,
with her face hidden, and for a moment or two he stood before her without speaking. Then he
knelt at her side and took her hands with a murmur of endearment.

At his touch she started up. "And it was I," she cried, "who persuaded my father that he might
trust you!" And she sank back sobbing.

Odo rose and moved away, waiting for her overwrought emotion to subside. At length he gently
asked, "Do you wish me to leave you?"

She raised her head. "No," she said firmly, though her lip still trembled; "you must first
hear an explanation of my conduct; though it is scarce possible," she added, flushing to the
brow, "that you have not already guessed the purpose of this lamentable comedy."

"I guess nothing," he replied, "save that perhaps I may in some way serve you."

"Serve me?" she cried, with a flash of anger through her tears. "It is a late hour to speak
of service, after what you have brought on this house!"

Odo turned pale. "Here indeed, madam," said he, "are words that need an explanation."

"Oh," she broke forth, "and you shall have it; though I think to any other it must be writ
large upon my countenance." She rose and paced the floor impetuously. "Is it possible," she
began again, "you do not yet perceive the sense of that execrable scene? Or do you think, by
feigning ignorance, to prolong my humiliation? Oh," she said, pausing before him, her breast
in a tumult, her eyes alight, "it was I who persuaded my father of your discretion and prudence,
it was through my influence that he opened himself to you so freely; and is this the return
you make? Alas, why did you leave your fashionable friends and a world in which you are so
fitted to shine, to bring unhappiness on an obscure household that never dreamed of courting
your notice?"

As she stood before him in her radiant anger, it went hard with Odo not to silence with a kiss
a resentment that he guessed to be mainly directed against herself; but he controlled himself
and said quietly: "Madam, I were a dolt not to perceive that I have had the misfortune to offend;
but when or how, I swear to heaven I know not; and till you enlighten me I can neither excuse
nor defend myself."

She turned pale, but instantly recovered her composure. "You are right," she said; "I rave
like a foolish girl; but indeed I scarce know if I am in my waking senses"--She paused, as
if to check a fresh rush of emotion. "Oh, sir," she cried, "can you not guess what has happened?
You were warned, I believe, not to frequent this house too openly; but of late you have been
an almost daily visitor, and you never come here but you are followed. My father's doctrines
have long been under suspicion, and to be accused of perverting a man of your rank must be
his ruin. He was too proud to tell you this, and profiting today by his absence, and knowing
that if you came the spies would be at your heels, I resolved to meet you at the gate, and
welcome you in such a way that our enemies should be deceived as to the true cause of your visits."

Her voice wavered on the last words, but she faced him proudly, and it was Odo whose gaze fell.
Never perhaps had he been conscious of cutting a meaner figure; yet shame was so blent in him
with admiration for the girl's nobility and courage, that compunction was swept away in the
impulse that flung him at her feet.

"Ah," he cried, "I have been blind indeed, and what you say abases me to earth. Yes, I was
warned that my visits might compromise your father; nor had I any pretext for returning so
often but my own selfish pleasure in his discourse; or so at least," he added in a lower voice,
"I chose to fancy--but when we met just now at the gate, if you acted a comedy, believe me,
I did not; and if I have come day after day to this house, it is because, unknowingly, I came
for you."

The words had escaped him unawares, and he was too sensible of their untimeliness not to be
prepared for the gesture with which she cut him short.

"Oh," said she, in a tone of the liveliest reproach, "spare me this last affront if you wish
me to think the harm you have already done was done unknowingly!"

Odo rose to his feet, tingling under the rebuke. "If respect and admiration be an affront,
madam," he said, "I cannot remain in your presence without offending, and nothing is left me
but to withdraw; but before going I would at least ask if there is no way of repairing the
harm that my over-assiduity has caused."

She flushed high at the question. "Why, that," she said, "is in part, I trust, already accomplished;
indeed," she went on with an effort, "it was when I learned the authorities suspected you of
coming here on a gallant adventure that I devised the idea of meeting you at the gate; and
for the rest, sir, the best reparation you can make is one that will naturally suggest itself
to a gentleman whose time must already be so fully engaged."

And with that she made him a deep reverence, and withdrew to the inner room.

2.5.

When the Professor's gate closed on Odo night was already falling and the oil-lamp at the end
of the arched passage-way shed its weak circle of light on the pavement. This light, as Odo
emerged, fell on a retreating figure which resembled that of the blind beggar he had seen crouching
on the steps of the Corpus Domini. He ran forward, but the man hurried across the little square
and disappeared in the darkness. Odo had not seen his face; but though his dress was tattered,
and he leaned on a beggar's staff, something about his broad rolling back recalled the well-filled
outline of Cantapresto's cassock.

Sick at heart, Odo rambled on from one street to another, avoiding the more crowded quarters,
and losing himself more than once in the districts near the river, where young gentlemen of
his figure seldom showed themselves unattended. The populace, however, was all abroad, and
he passed as unregarded as though his sombre thoughts had enveloped him in actual darkness.

It was late when at length he turned again into the Piazza Castello, which was brightly lit
and still thronged with pleasure-seekers. As he approached, the crowd divided to make way for
three or four handsome travelling-carriages, preceded by linkmen and liveried out-riders and
followed by a dozen mounted equerries. The people, evidently in the humour to greet every incident
of the streets as part of a show prepared for their diversion, cheered lustily as the carriages
dashed across the square; and Odo, turning to a man at his elbow, asked who the distinguished
visitors might be.

"Why, sir," said the other laughing, "I understand it is only an Embassage from some neighbouring
state; but when our good people are in their Easter mood they are ready to take a mail-coach
for Elijah's chariot and their wives' scolding for the Gift of Tongues."

Odo spent a restless night face to face with his first humiliation. Though the girl's rebuff
had cut him to the quick, it was the vision of the havoc his folly had wrought that stood between
him and sleep. To have endangered the liberty, the very life, perhaps, of a man he loved and
venerated, and who had welcomed him without heed of personal risk, this indeed was bitter to
his youthful self-sufficiency. The thought of Giannone's fate was like a cold clutch at his
heart; nor was there any balm in knowing that it was at Fulvia's request he had been so freely
welcomed; for he was persuaded that, whatever her previous feeling might have been, the scene
just enacted must render him forever odious to her. Turn whither it would, his tossing vanity
found no repose; and dawn rose for him on a thorny waste of disillusionment.

Cantapresto broke in early on this vigil, flushed with the importance of a letter from the
Countess Valdu. The lady summoned her son to dinner, "to meet an old friend and distinguished
visitor"; and a verbal message bade Odo come early and wear his new uniform. He was too well
acquainted with his mother's exaggerations to attach much importance to the summons; but being
glad of an excuse to escape his daily visit at the Palazzo Tournanches, he sent Donna Laura
word that he would wait on her at two.

On the very threshold of Casa Valdu, Odo perceived that unwonted preparations were afoot. The
shabby liveries of the servants had been refurbished and the marble floor newly scoured; and
he found his mother seated in the drawing-room, an apartment never unshrouded save on the most
ceremonious occasions. As to Donna Laura, she had undergone the same process of renovation,
and with more striking results. It seemed to Odo, when she met him sparkling under her rouge
and powder, as though some withered flower had been dipped in water, regaining for the moment
a languid semblance of its freshness. Her eyes shone, her hand trembled under his lips, and
the diamonds rose and fell on her eager bosom.

"You are late!" she tenderly reproached him; and before he had time to reply, the double doors
were thrown open, and the major-domo announced in an awed voice: "His excellency Count Lelio
Trescorre."

Odo turned with a start. To his mind, already crowded with a confusion of thoughts, the name
summoned a throng of memories. He saw again his mother's apartments at Pianura, and the handsome
youth with lace ruffles and a clouded amber cane, who came and went among her other visitors
with an air of such superiority, and who rode beside the travelling-carriage on the first stage
of their journey to Donnaz. To that handsome youth the gentleman just announced bore the likeness
of the finished portrait to the sketch. He was a man of about two-and-thirty, of the middle
height, with a delicate dark face and an air of arrogance not unbecomingly allied to an insinuating
courtesy of address. His dress of sombre velvet, with a star on the breast, and a profusion
of the finest lace, suggested the desire to add dignity and weight to his appearance without
renouncing the softer ambitions of his age.

He received with a smile Donna Laura's agitated phrases of welcome. "I come," said he kissing
her hand, "in my private character, not as the Envoy of Pianura, but as the friend and servant
of the Countess Valdu; and I trust," he added turning to Odo, "of the Cavaliere Valsecca also."

Odo bowed in silence.

"You may have heard," Trescorre continued, addressing him in the same engaging tone, "that
I am come to Turin on a mission from his Highness to the court of Savoy: a trifling matter
of boundary-lines and customs, which I undertook at the Duke's desire, the more readily, it
must be owned, since it gave me the opportunity to renew my acquaintance with friends whom
absence has not taught me to forget." He smiled again at Donna Laura, who blushed like a girl.

The curiosity which Trescorre's words excited was lost to Odo in the painful impression produced
by his mother's agitation. To see her, a woman already past her youth, and aged by her very
efforts to preserve it, trembling and bridling under the cool eye of masculine indifference,
was a spectacle the more humiliating that he was too young to be moved by its human and pathetic
side. He recalled once seeing a memento mori of delicately-tinted ivory, which represented
a girl's head, one side all dewy freshness, the other touched with death; and it seemed to
him that his mother's face resembled this tragic toy, the side her mirror reflected being still
rosy with youth, while that which others saw was already a ruin. His heart burned with disgust
as he followed Donna Laura and Trescorre into the dining-room, which had been set out with
all the family plate, and decked with rare fruits and flowers. The Countess had excused her
husband on the plea of his official duties, and the three sat down alone to a meal composed
of the costliest delicacies.

Their guest, who ate little and drank less, entertained them with the latest news of Pianura,
touching discreetly on the growing estrangement between the Duke and Duchess, and speaking
with becoming gravity of the heir's weak health. It was clear that the speaker, without filling
an official position at the court, was already deep in the Duke's counsels, and perhaps also
in the Duchess's; and Odo guessed under his smiling indiscretions the cool aim of the man who
never wastes a shot.

Toward the close of the meal, when the servants had withdrawn, he turned to Odo with a graver
manner. "You have perhaps guessed, cavaliere," he said, "that in venturing to claim the Countess's
hospitality in so private a manner, I had in mind the wish to open myself to you more freely
than would be possible at court." He paused a moment, as though to emphasise his words; and
Odo fancied he cultivated the trick of deliberate speaking to counteract his natural arrogance
of manner. "The time has come," he went on, "when it seems desirable that you should be more
familiar with the state of affairs at Pianura. For some years it seemed likely that the Duchess
would give his Highness another son; but circumstances now appear to preclude that hope; and
it is the general opinion of the court physicians that the young prince has not many years
to live." He paused again, fixing his eyes on Odo's flushed face. "The Duke," he continued,
"has shown a natural reluctance to face a situation so painful both to his heart and his ambitions;
but his feelings as a parent have yielded to his duty as a sovereign, and he recognises the
fact that you should have an early opportunity of acquainting yourself more nearly with the
affairs of the duchy, and also of seeing something of the other courts of Italy. I am persuaded,"
he added, "that, young as you are, I need not point out to you on what slight contingencies
all human fortunes hang, and how completely the heir's recovery or the birth of another prince
must change the aspect of your future. You have, I am sure, the heart to face such chances
with becoming equanimity, and to carry the weight of conditional honours without any undue
faith in their permanence."

The admonition was so lightly uttered that it seemed rather a tribute to Odo's good sense than
a warning to his inexperience; and indeed it was difficult for him, in spite of an instinctive
aversion to the man, to quarrel with anything in his address or language. Trescorre in fact
possessed the art of putting younger men at their ease, while appearing as an equal among his
elders: a gift doubtless developed by the circumstances of court life, and the need of at once
commanding respect and disarming diffidence.

He took leave upon his last words, declaring, in reply to the Countess's protests, that he
had promised to accompany the court that afternoon to Stupinigi. "But I hope," he added, turning
to Odo, "to continue our talk at greater length, if you will favour me with a visit tomorrow
at my lodgings."

No sooner was the door closed on her illustrious visitor than Donna Laura flung herself on
Odo's bosom.

"I always knew it," she cried, "my dearest; but, oh, that I should live to see the day!" and
she wept and clung to him with a thousand endearments, from the nature of which he gathered
that she already beheld him on the throne of Pianura. To his laughing reminder of the distance
that still separated him from that dizzy eminence, she made answer that there was far more
than he knew, that the Duke had fallen into all manner of excesses which had already gravely
impaired his health, and that for her part she only hoped her son, when raised to a station
so far above her own, would not forget the tenderness with which she had ever cherished him,
or the fact that Count Valdu's financial situation was one quite unworthy the stepfather of
a reigning prince.

Escaping at length from this parody of his own sensations, Odo found himself in a tumult of
mind that solitude served only to increase. Events had so pressed upon him within the last
few days that at times he was reduced to a passive sense of spectatorship, an inability to
regard himself as the centre of so many converging purposes. It was clear that Trescorre's
mission was mainly a pretext for seeing the Duke's young kinsman; and that some special motive
must have impelled the Duke to show such sudden concern for his cousin's welfare. Trescorre
need hardly have cautioned Odo against fixing his hopes on the succession. The Duke himself
was a man not above five-and-thirty, and more than one chance stood between Odo and the duchy;
nor was it this contingency that set his pulses beating, but rather the promise of an immediate
change in his condition. The Duke wished him to travel, to visit the different courts of Italy:
what was the prospect of ruling over a stagnant principality to this near vision of the world
and the glories thereof, suddenly discovered from the golden height of opportunity? Save for
a few weeks of autumn villeggiatura at some neighbouring chase or vineyard, Odo had not left
Turin for nine years. He had come there a child and had grown to manhood among the same narrow
influences and surroundings. To be turned loose on the world at two-and-twenty, with such an
arrears of experience to his credit, was to enter on a richer inheritance than any duchy; and
in Odo's case the joy of the adventure was doubled by its timeliness. That fate should thus
break at a stroke the meshes of habit, should stoop to play the advocate of his secret inclinations,
seemed to promise him the complicity of the gods. Once in a lifetime, chance will thus snap
the toils of a man's making; and it is instructive to see the poor puppet adore the power that
connives at his evasion...

Trescorre remained a week in Turin; and Odo saw him daily at court, at his lodgings, or in
company. The little sovereignty of Pianura being an important factor in the game of political
equilibrium, her envoy was sure of a flattering reception from the neighbouring powers; and
Trescorre's person and address must have commended him to the most fastidious company. He continued
to pay particular attention to Odo, and the rumour was soon abroad that the Cavaliere Valsecca
had been sent for to visit his cousin, the reigning Duke; a rumour which, combined with Donna
Laura's confidential hints, made Odo the centre of much feminine solicitude, and roused the
Countess Clarice to a vivid sense of her rights. These circumstances, and his own tendency
to drift on the current of sensation, had carried Odo more easily than he could have hoped
past the painful episode of the Professor's garden. He was still tormented by the sense of
his inability to right so grave a wrong; but he found solace in the thought that his absence
was after all the best reparation he could make.

Trescorre, though distinguishing Odo by his favours, had not again referred to the subject
of their former conversation; but on the last day of his visit he sent for Odo to his lodgings
and at once entered upon the subject.

"His Highness," said he, "does not for the present recommend your resigning your commission
in the Sardinian army; but as he desires you to visit him at Pianura, and to see something
of the neighbouring courts, he has charged me to obtain for you a two years' leave of absence
from his Majesty's service: a favour the King has already been pleased to accord. The Duke
has moreover resolved to double your present allowance and has entrusted me with the sum of
two hundred ducats, which he desires you to spend in the purchase of a travelling-carriage,
and such other appointments as are suitable to a gentleman of your rank and expectations."
As he spoke, he unlocked his despatch-box and handed a purse to Odo. "His Highness," he continued,
"is impatient to see you; and once your preparations are completed, I should advise you to
set out without delay; that is," he added, after one of his characteristic pauses, "if I am
right in supposing that there is no obstacle to your departure."

Odo, inferring an allusion to the Countess Clarice, smiled and coloured slightly. "I know of
none," he said.

Trescorre bowed. "I am glad to hear it," he said, "for I know that a man of your age and appearance
may have other inclinations than his own to consider. Indeed, I have had reports of a connection
that I should not take the liberty of mentioning, were it not that your interest demands it."
He waited a moment, but Odo remained silent. "I am sure," he went on, "you will do me the justice
of believing that I mean no reflection on the lady, when I warn you against being seen too
often in the quarter behind the Corpus Domini. Such attachments, though engaging at the outset
to a fastidious taste, are often more troublesome than a young man of your age can foresee;
and in this case the situation is complicated by the fact that the girl's father is in ill
odour with the authorities, so that, should the motive of your visits be mistaken, you might
find yourself inconveniently involved in the proceedings of the Holy Office."

Odo, who had turned pale, controlled himself sufficiently to listen in silence, and with as
much pretence of indifference as he could assume. It was the peculiar misery of his situation
that he could not defend Fulvia without betraying her father, and that of the two alternatives
prudence bade him reject the one that chivalry would have chosen. It flashed across him, however,
that he might in some degree repair the harm he had done by finding out what measures were
to be taken against Vivaldi; and to this end he carelessly asked:--"Is it possible that the
Professor has done anything to give offence in such quarters?"

His assumption of carelessness was perhaps overdone; for Trescorre's face grew as blank as
a shuttered house-front.

"I have heard rumours of the kind," he rejoined; "but they would scarcely have attracted my
notice had I not learned of your honouring the young lady with your favours." He glanced at
Odo with a smile. "Were I a father," he added, "with a son of your age, my first advice to
him would be to form no sentimental ties but in his own society or in the world of pleasure--the
only two classes where the rules of the game are understood."

2.6.

Odo had appointed to leave Turin some two weeks after Trescorre's departure; but the preparations
for a young gentleman's travels were in those days a momentous business, and one not to be
discharged without vexatious postponements. The travelling-carriage must be purchased and fitted
out, the gold-mounted dressing-case selected and engraved with the owner's arms, servants engaged
and provided with liveries, and the noble tourist's own wardrobe stocked with an assortment
of costumes suited to the vicissitudes of travel and the requirements of court life.

Odo's impatience to be gone increased with every delay, and at length he determined to go forward
at all adventure, leaving Cantapresto to conclude the preparations and overtake him later.
It had been agreed with Trescorre that Odo, on his way to Pianura, should visit his grandfather,
the old Marquess, whose increasing infirmities had for some years past imprisoned him on his
estates, and accordingly about the Ascension he set out in the saddle for Donnaz, attended
only by one servant, and having appointed that Cantapresto should meet him with the carriage
at Ivrea.

The morning broke cloudy as he rode out of the gates. Beyond the suburbs a few drops fell,
and as he pressed forward the country lay before him in the emerald freshness of a spring rain,
vivid strips of vineyard alternating with silvery bands of oats, the domes of the walnut-trees
dripping above the roadside, and the poplars along the water-courses all slanting one way in
the soft continuous downpour. He had left Turin in that mood of clinging melancholy which waits
on the most hopeful departures, and the landscape seemed an image of anticipations clouded
with regret. He had had a stormy but tender parting with Clarice, whose efforts to act the
forsaken Ariadne were somewhat marred by her irrepressible pride in her lover's prospects,
and whose last word had charged him to bring her back one of the rare lap-dogs bred by the
monks of Bologna. Seen down the lengthening vista of separation even Clarice seemed regrettable;
and Odo would have been glad to let his mind linger on their farewells. But another thought
importuned him. He had left Turin without news of Vivaldi or Fulvia, and without having done
anything to conjure the peril to which his rashness had exposed them. More than once he had
been about to reveal his trouble to Alfieri; but shame restrained him when he remembered that
it was Alfieri who had vouched for his discretion. After his conversation with Trescorre he
had tried to find some way of sending a word of warning to Vivaldi; but he had no messenger
whom he could trust; and would not Vivaldi justly resent a warning from such a source? He felt
himself the prisoner of his own folly, and as he rode along the wet country roads an invisible
gaoler seemed to spur beside him.

The clouds lifted at noon; and leaving the plain he mounted into a world sparkling with sunshine
and quivering with new-fed streams. The first breath of mountain-air lifted the mist from his
spirit, and he began to feel himself a boy again as he entered the high gorges in the cold
light after sunset. It was about the full of the moon, and in his impatience to reach Donnaz
he resolved to push on after nightfall. The forest was still thinly-leaved, and the rustle
of wind in the branches and the noise of the torrents recalled his first approach to the castle,
in the wild winter twilight. The way lay in darkness till the moon rose, and once or twice
he took a wrong turn and found himself engaged in some overgrown woodland track; but he soon
regained the high-road, and his servant, a young fellow of indomitable cheerfulness, took the
edge off their solitude by frequent snatches of song. At length the moon rose, and toward midnight
Odo, spurring out of a dark glen, found himself at the opening of the valley of Donnaz. A cold
radiance bathed the familiar pastures, the houses of the village along the stream, and the
turrets and crenellations of the castle at the head of the gorge. The air was bitter, and the
horses' hoofs struck sharply on the road as they trotted past the slumbering houses and halted
at the gateway through which Odo had first been carried as a sleepy child. It was long before
the travellers' knock was answered, but a bewildered porter at length admitted them, and Odo
cried out when he recognised in the man's face the features of one of the lads who had taught
him to play pallone in the castle court.

Within doors all were abed; but the cavaliere was expected, and supper laid for him in the
very chamber where he had slept as a lad. The sight of so much that was strange and yet familiar--of
the old stone walls, the banners, the flaring lamps and worn slippery stairs--all so much barer,
smaller, more dilapidated than he had remembered--stirred the deep springs of his piety for
inanimate things, and he was seized with a fancy to snatch up a light and explore the recesses
of the castle. But he had been in the saddle since dawn, and the keen air and the long hours
of riding were in his blood. They weighted his lids, relaxed his limbs, and gently divesting
him of his hopes and fears, pressed him down in the deep sepulchre of a dreamless sleep...

Odo remained a month at Donnaz. His grandfather's happiness in his presence would in itself
have sufficed to detain him, apart from his natural tenderness for old scenes and associations.
It was one of the compensations of his rapidly travelling imagination that the past, from each
new vantage-ground of sensation, acquired a fascination which to the more sober-footed fancy
only the perspective of years can give. Life, in childhood, is a picture-book of which the
text is undecipherable; and the youth now revisiting the unchanged setting of his boyhood was
spelling out for the first time the legend beneath the picture.

The old Marquess, though broken in body, still ruled his household from his seat beside the
hearth. The failure of bodily activity seemed to have doubled his moral vigour, and the walls
shook with the vehemence of his commands. The Marchioness was sunk in a state of placid apathy
from which only her husband's outbursts roused her; one of the canonesses was dead, and the
other, drier and more shrivelled than ever, pined in her corner like a statue whose mate is
broken. Bruno was dead too; his old dog's bones had long since enriched a corner of the vineyard;
and some of the younger lads that Odo had known about the place were grown to sober-faced men
with wives and children.

Don Gervaso was still chaplain of Donnaz; and Odo saw with surprise that the grave ecclesiastic
who had formerly seemed an old man to him was in fact scarce past the middle age. In general
aspect he was unchanged; but his countenance had darkened, and what Odo had once taken for
harshness of manner he now perceived to be a natural melancholy. The young man had not been
long at Donnaz without discovering that in that little world of crystallised traditions the
chaplain was the only person conscious of the new forces abroad. It had never occurred to the
Marquess that anything short of a cataclysm such as it would be blasphemy to predict could
change the divinely established order whereby the territorial lord took tithes from his peasantry
and pastured his game on their crops. The hierarchy which rested on the bowed back of the toiling
serf and culminated in the figure of the heaven-sent King seemed to him as immutable as the
everlasting hills. The men of his generation had not learned that it was built on a human foundation
and that a sudden movement of the underlying mass might shake the structure to its pinnacle.
The Marquess, who, like Donna Laura, already beheld Odo on the throne of Pianura, was prodigal
of counsels which showed a touching inability to discern the new aspect under which old difficulties
were likely to present themselves. That a ruler should be brave, prudent, personally abstemious,
and nobly lavish in his official display; that he should repress any attempts on the privileges
of the Church, while at the same time protecting his authority from the encroachments of the
Holy See; these axioms seemed to the old man to sum up the sovereign's duty to the state. The
relation, to his mind, remained a distinctly personal and paternal one; and Odo's attempts
to put before him the new theory of government, as a service performed by the ruler in the
interest of the ruled, resulted only in stirring up the old sediment of absolutism which generations
of feudal power had deposited in the Donnaz blood.

Only the chaplain perceived what new agencies were at work; but even he looked on as a watcher
from a distant tower, who sees opposing armies far below him in the night, without being able
to follow their movements or guess which way the battle goes.

"The days," he said to Odo, "are evil. The Church's enemies, the basilisks and dragons of unbelief
and license, are stirring in their old lairs, the dark places of the human spirit. It is time
that a fresh purification by blood should cleanse the earth of its sins. That hour has already
come in France, where the blood of heretics has lately fertilised the soil of faith; it will
come here, as surely as I now stand before you; and till it comes the faithful can only weary
heaven with their entreaties, if haply thereby they may mitigate the evil. I shall remain here,"
he continued, "while the Marquess needs me; but that task discharged, I intend to retire to
one of the contemplative orders, and with my soul perpetually uplifted like the arms of Moses,
wear out my life in prayer for those whom the latter days shall overtake."

Odo had listened in silence; but after a moment he said: "My father, among those who have called
in to question the old order of things there are many animated by no mere desire for change,
no idle inclination to pry into the divine mysteries, but who earnestly long to ease the burden
of mankind and let light into what you have called the dark places of the spirit. How is it,
they ask, that though Christ came to save the poor and the humble, it is on them that life
presses most heavily after eighteen hundred years of His rule? All cannot be well in a world
where such contradictions exist, and what if some of the worst abuses of the age have found
lodgment in the very ramparts that faith has built against them?"

Don Gervaso's face grew stern and his eyes rested sadly on Odo. "You speak," said he, "of bringing
light into dark places; but what light is there on earth save that which is shed by the Cross,
and where shall they find guidance who close their eyes to that divine illumination?"

"But is there not," Odo rejoined, "a divine illumination within each of us, the light of truth
which we must follow at any cost--or have the worst evils and abuses only to take refuge in
the Church to find sanctuary there, as malefactors find it?"

The chaplain shook his head. "It is as I feared," he said, "and Satan has spread his subtlest
snare for you; for if he tempts some in the guise of sensual pleasure, or of dark fears and
spiritual abandonment, it is said that to those he most thirsts to destroy he appears in the
likeness of their Saviour. You tell me it is to right the wrongs of the poor and the humble
that your new friends, the philosophers, have assailed the authority of Christ. I have only
one answer to make: Christ, as you said just now, died for the poor--how many of your philosophers
would do as much? Because men hunger and thirst, is that a sign that He has forsaken them?
And since when have earthly privileges been the token of His favour? May He not rather have
designed that, by continual sufferings and privations, they shall lay up for themselves treasures
in Heaven such as your eyes and mine shall never see or our ears hear? And how dare you assume
that any temporal advantages could atone for that of which your teachings must deprive them--the
heavenly consolations of the love of Christ?"

Odo listened with a sense of deepening discouragement. "But is it necessary," he urged, "to
confound Christ with His ministers, the law with its exponents? May not men preserve their
hope of heaven and yet lead more endurable lives on earth?"

"Ah, my child, beware, for this is the heresy of private judgment, which has already drawn
down thousands into the pit. It is one of the most insidious errors in which the spirit of
evil has ever masqueraded; for it is based on the fallacy that we, blind creatures of a day,
and ourselves in the meshes of sin, can penetrate the counsels of the Eternal, and test the
balances of the heavenly Justice. I tremble to think into what an abyss your noblest impulses
may fling you, if you abandon yourself to such illusions; and more especially if it pleases
God to place in your hands a small measure of that authority of which He is the supreme repository.--When
I took leave of you here nine years since," Don Gervaso continued in a gentler tone, "we prayed
together in the chapel; and I ask you, before setting out on your new life, to return there
with me and lay your doubts and difficulties before Him who alone is able to still the stormy
waves of the soul."

Odo, touched by the appeal, accompanied him to the chapel, and knelt on the steps whence his
young spirit had once soared upward on the heavenly pleadings of the Mass. The chapel was as
carefully tended as ever; and amid the comely appointments of the altar shone forth that Presence
which speaks to men of an act of love perpetually renewed. But to Odo the voice was mute, the
divinity wrapped in darkness; and he remembered reading in some Latin author that the ancient
oracles had ceased to speak when their questioners lost faith in them. He knew not whether
his own faith was lost; he felt only that it had put forth on a sea of difficulties across
which he saw the light of no divine command.

In this mood there was no more help to be obtained from Don Gervaso than from the Marquess.
Odo's last days at Donnaz were clouded by a sense of the deep estrangement between himself
and that life of which the outward aspect was so curiously unchanged. His past seemed to look
at him with unrecognising eyes, to bar the door against his knock; and he rode away saddened
by that sense of isolation which follows the first encounter with a forgotten self.

At Ivrea the sight of Cantapresto and the travelling-carriage roused him as from a waking dream.
Here, at his beck were the genial realities of life, embodied, humorously enough, in the bustling
figure which for so many years had played a kind of comic accompaniment to his experiences.
Cantapresto was in a fever of expectation. To set forth on the road again, after nine years
of well-fed monotony, and under conditions so favourable to his physical well-being, was to
drink the wine of romance from a golden cup. Odo was at the age when the spirit lies as naturally
open to the variations of mood as a lake to the shifting of the breeze; and Cantapresto's exuberant
humour, and the novel details of their travelling equipment, had soon effaced the graver influences
of Donnaz. Life stretched before him alluring and various as the open road; and his pulses
danced to the tune of the postillion's whip as the carriage rattled out of the gates.

It was a bright morning and the plain lay beneath them like a planted garden, in all the flourish
and verdure of June; but the roads being deep in mire, and unrepaired after the ravages of
the winter, it was past noon before they reached the foot of the hills. Here matters were little
better, for the highway was ploughed deep by the wheels of the numberless vans and coaches
journeying from one town to another during the Whitsun holidays, so that even a young gentleman
travelling post must resign himself to a plebeian rate of progression. Odo at first was too
much pleased with the novelty of the scene to quarrel with any incidental annoyances; but as
the afternoon wore on the way began to seem long, and he was just giving utterance to his impatience
when Cantapresto, putting his head out of the window, announced in a tone of pious satisfaction
that just ahead of them were a party of travellers in far worse case than themselves. Odo,
leaning out, saw that, a dozen yards ahead, a modest chaise of antique pattern had in fact
come to grief by the roadside. He called to his postillion to hurry forward, and they were
soon abreast of the wreck, about which several people were grouped in anxious colloquy. Odo
sprang out to offer his services; but as he alit he felt Cantapresto's hand on his sleeve.

"Cavaliere," the soprano whispered, "these are plainly people of no condition, and we have
yet a good seven miles to Vercelli, where all the inns will be crowded for the Whitsun fair.
Believe me, it were better to go forward."

Odo advanced without heeding this admonition; but a moment later he had almost regretted his
action; for in the centre of the group about the chaise stood the two persons whom, of all
the world, he was at that moment least wishful of meeting.

2.7.

It was in fact Vivaldi who, putting aside the knot of idlers about the chaise, stepped forward
at Odo's approach. The philosopher's countenance was perturbed, his travelling-coat spattered
with mud, and his daughter, hooded and veiled, clung to him with an air of apprehension that
smote Odo to the heart. He caught a blush of recognition beneath her veil; and as he drew near
she raised a finger to her lip and faintly shook her head.

The mute signal reassured him. "I see, sir," said he, turning courteously to Vivaldi, "that
you are in a bad plight, and I hope that I or my carriage may be of service to you." He ventured
a second glance at Fulvia, but she had turned aside and was inspecting the wheel of the chaise
with an air of the most disheartening detachment.

Vivaldi, who had returned Odo's greeting without any sign of ill-will, bowed slightly and seemed
to hesitate a moment. "Our plight, as you see," he said, "is indeed a grave one; for the wheel
has come off our carriage and my driver here tells me there is no smithy this side Vercelli,
where it is imperative we should lie tonight. I hope, however," he added, glancing down the
road, "that with all the traffic now coming and going we may soon be overtaken by some vehicle
that will carry us to our destination."

He spoke calmly, but it was plain some pressing fear underlay his composure, and the nature
of the emergency was but too clear to Odo.

"Will not my carriage serve you?" he hastily rejoined. "I am for Vercelli, and if you will
honour me with your company we can go forward at once."

Fulvia, during this exchange of words, had affected to be engaged with the luggage, which lay
in a heap beside the chaise; but at this point she lifted her head and shot a glance at her
father from under her black travelling-hood.

Vivaldi's constraint increased. "This, sir," said he, "is a handsome offer, and one for which
I thank you; but I fear our presence may incommode you and the additional weight of our luggage
perhaps delay your progress. I have little fear but some van or waggon will overtake us before
nightfall; and should it chance otherwise," he added with a touch of irresistible pedantry,
"why, it behoves us to remember that we shall be none the worse off, since the sage is independent
of circumstances."

Odo could hardly repress a smile. "Such philosophy, sir, is admirable in principle, but in
practice hardly applicable to a lady unused to passing her nights in a rice-field. The region
about here is notoriously unhealthy and you will surely not expose your daughter to the risk
of remaining by the roadside or of finding a lodging in some peasant's hut."

Vivaldi drew himself up. "My daughter," said he, "has been trained to face graver emergencies
with an equanimity I have no fear of putting to the touch--'the calm of a mind blest in the
consciousness of its virtue'; and were it not that circumstances are somewhat pressing--" he
broke off and glanced at Cantapresto, who was fidgeting about Odo's carriage or talking in
undertones with the driver of the chaise.

"Come, sir," said Odo urgently, "Let my servants put your luggage up and we'll continue this
argument on the road."

Vivaldi again paused. "Sir," he said at length, "will you first step aside with me a moment?"
he led Odo a few paces down the road. "I make no pretence," he went on when they were out of
Cantapresto's hearing, "of concealing from you that this offer comes very opportune to our
needs, for it is urgent we should be out of Piedmont by tomorrow. But before accepting a seat
in your carriage, I must tell you that you offer it to a proscribed man; since I have little
reason to doubt that by this time the sbirri are on my track."

It was impossible to guess from Vivaldi's manner whether he suspected Odo of being the cause
of his misadventure; and the young man, though flushing to the forehead, took refuge in the
thought of Fulvia's signal and maintained a self-possessed silence.

"The motive of my persecution," Vivaldi continued, "I need hardly explain to one acquainted
with my house and with the aims and opinions of those who frequent it. We live, alas, in an
age when it is a moral offence to seek enlightenment, a political crime to share it with others.
I have long foreseen that any attempt to raise the condition of my countrymen must end in imprisonment
or flight; and though perhaps to have suffered the former had been a more impressive vindication
of my views, why, sir, the father at the last moment overruled the philosopher, and thinking
of my poor girl there, who but for me stands alone in the world, I resolved to take refuge
in a state where a man may work for the liberty of others without endangering his own."

Odo had listened with rising eagerness. Was not here an opportunity, if not to atone, at least
to give practical evidence of his contrition?

"What you tell me sir," he exclaimed, "cannot but increase my zeal to serve you. Here is no
time to palter. I am on my way to Lombardy, which, from what you say, I take to be your destination
also; and if you and your daughter will give me your company across the border I think you
need fear no farther annoyance from the police, since my passports, as the Duke of Pianura's
cousin, cover any friends I choose to take in my company."

"Why, sir," said Vivaldi, visibly moved by the readiness of the response, "here is a generosity
so far in excess of our present needs that it encourages me to accept the smaller favour of
travelling with you to Vercelli. There we have friends with whom we shall be safe for the night,
and soon after sunrise I hope we may be across the border."

Odo at once followed up his advantage by pointing out that it was on the border that difficulties
were most likely to arise; but after a few moments of debate Vivaldi declared he must first
take counsel with his daughter, who still hung like a mute interrogation on the outskirts of
their talk.

After a few words with her, he returned to Odo. "My daughter," said he, "whose good sense puts
my wisdom to the blush, wishes me first to enquire if you purpose returning to Turin; since
in that case, as she points out, your kindness might result in annoyances to which we have
no right to expose you."

Odo coloured. "Such considerations, I beg your daughter to believe, would not weigh with me
an instant; but as I am leaving Piedmont for two years I am not so happy as to risk anything
by serving you."

Vivaldi on this assurance at once consented to accept a seat in his carriage as far as Boffalora,
the first village beyond the Sardinian frontier. It was agreed that at Vercelli Odo was to
set down his companions at an inn whence, alone and privately, they might gain their friend's
house; that on the morrow at daybreak he was to take them up at a point near the convent of
the Umiliati, and that thence they were to push forward without a halt for Boffalora.

This agreement reached, Odo was about to offer Fulvia a hand to the carriage when an unwelcome
thought arrested him.

"I hope, sir," said he, again turning to Vivaldi, and blushing furiously as he spoke, "that
you feel assured of my discretion; but I ought perhaps to warn you that my companion yonder,
though the good-naturedest fellow alive, is not one to live long on good terms with a secret,
whether his own or another's."

"I am obliged to you," said Vivaldi, "for the hint; but my daughter and I are like those messengers
who, in time of war, learn to carry their despatches beneath their tongues. You may trust us
not to betray ourselves; and your friend may, if he chooses, suppose me to be travelling to
Milan to act as governor to a young gentleman of quality."

The Professor's luggage had by this been put on Odo's carriage, and the latter advanced to
Fulvia. He had drawn a favourable inference from the concern she had shown for his welfare;
but to his mortification she merely laid two reluctant finger tips in his hand and took her
seat without a word of thanks or so much as a glance at her rescuer. This unmerited repulse,
and the constraint occasioned by Cantapresto's presence, made the remainder of the drive interminable.
Even the Professor's apposite reflections on rice-growing and the culture of the mulberry did
little to shorten the way; and when at length the bell-towers of Vercelli rose in sight Odo
felt the relief of a man who has acquitted himself of a tedious duty. He had looked forward
with the most romantic anticipations to the outcome of this chance encounter with Fulvia; but
the unforgiving humour which had lent her a transitory charm now became as disfiguring as some
physical defect; and his heart swelled with the defiance of youthful disappointment.

It was near the angelus when they entered the city. Just within the gates Odo set down his
companions, who took leave of him, the one with the heartiest expressions of gratitude, the
other with a hurried inclination of her veiled head. Thence he drove on to the Three Crowns,
where he designed to lie. The streets were still crowded with holiday-makers and decked out
with festal hangings. Tapestries and silken draperies adorned the balconies of the houses,
innumerable tiny lamps framed the doors and windows, and the street-shrines were dressed with
a profusion of flowers; while every square and open space in the city was crowded with booths,
with the tents of ambulant comedians and dentists, and with the outspread carpets of snake-charmers,
posture-makers and jugglers. Among this mob of quacks and pedlars circulated other fantastic
figures, the camp-followers of the army of hucksters: dwarfs and cripples, mendicant friars,
gypsy fortune-tellers, and the itinerant reciters of Ariosto and Tasso. With these mingled
the towns-people in holiday dress, the well-to-do farmers and their wives, and a throng of
nondescript idlers, ranging from the servants of the nobility pushing their way insolently
through the crowd, to those sinister vagabonds who lurk, as it were, in the interstices of
every concourse of people.

It was not long before the noise and animation about him had dispelled Odo's ill-humour. The
world was too fair to be darkened by a girl's disdain, and a reaction of feeling putting him
in tune with the humours of the market-place, he at once set forth on foot to view the city.
It was now near sunset and the day's decline irradiated the stately front of the Cathedral,
the walls of the ancient Hospital that faced it, and the groups gathered about the stalls and
platforms obstructing the square. Even in his travelling-dress Odo was not a figure to pass
unnoticed, and he was soon assailed by laughing compliments on his looks and invitations to
visit the various shows concealed behind the flapping curtains of the tents. There were enough
pretty faces in the crowd to justify such familiarities, and even so modest a success was not
without solace to his vanity. He lingered for some time in the square, answering the banter
of the blooming market-women, inspecting the filigree-ornaments from Genoa, and watching a
little yellow bitch in a hooped petticoat and lappets dance the furlana to the music of an
armless fiddler who held the bow in his teeth. As he turned from this show Odo's eye was caught
by a handsome girl who, on the arm of a dashing cavalier in somewhat shabby velvet, was cheapening
a pair of gloves at a neighbouring stall. The girl, who was masked, shot a dark glance at Odo
from under her three-cornered Venetian hat; then, tossing down a coin, she gathered up the
gloves and drew her companion away. The manoeuvre was almost a challenge, and Odo was about
to take it up when a pretty boy in a Scaramouch habit, waylaying him with various graceful
antics, thrust a play-bill in his hand; and on looking round he found the girl and her gallant
had disappeared. The play-bill, with a wealth of theatrical rhetoric, invited Odo to attend
the Performance to be given that evening at the Philodramatic Academy by the celebrated Capo
Comico Tartaglia of Rimini and his world-renowned company of Comedians, who, in the presence
of the aristocracy of Vercelli, were to present a new comedy entitled "Le Gelosie di Milord
Zambo," with an Intermezzo of singing and dancing by the best Performers of their kind.

Dusk was already falling, and Odo, who had brought no letters to the gentry of Vercelli, where
he intended to stay but a night, began to wonder how he should employ his evening. He had hoped
to spend it in Vivaldi's company, but the Professor not having invited him, he saw no prospect
but to return to the inn and sup alone with Cantapresto. In the doorway of the Three Crowns
he found the soprano awaiting him. Cantapresto, who had been as mute as a fish during the afternoon's
drive, now bustled forward with a great show of eagerness.

"What poet was it," he cried, "that paragoned youth to the Easter sunshine, which, wherever
it touches, causes a flower to spring up? Here we are scarce alit in a strange city, and already
a messenger finds the way to our inn with a most particular word from his lady to the Cavaliere
Odo Valsecca." And he held out a perfumed billet sealed with a flaming dart.

Odo's heart gave a leap at the thought that the letter might be from Fulvia; but on breaking
the seal he read these words, scrawled in an unformed hand:--

"Will the Cavaliere Valsecca accept from an old friend, who desires to renew her acquaintance
with him, the trifling gift of a side-box at Don Tartaglia's entertainment this evening?"

Vexed at his credulity, Odo tossed the invitation to Cantapresto; but a moment later, recalling
the glance of the pretty girl in the market-place, he began to wonder if the billet might not
be the prelude to a sufficiently diverting adventure. It at least offered a way of passing
the evening; and after a hurried supper he set out with Cantapresto for the Philodramatic Academy.
It was late when they entered their box, and several masks were already capering before the
footlights, exchanging lazzi with the townsfolk in the pit, and addressing burlesque compliments
to the quality in the boxes. The theatre seemed small and shabby after those of Turin, and
there was little in the old-fashioned fopperies of a provincial audience to interest a young
gentleman fresh from the capital. Odo looked about for any one resembling the masked beauty
of the market-place; but he beheld only ill-dressed dowagers and matrons, or ladies of the
town more conspicuous for their effrontery than for their charms.

The main diversion of the evening was by this begun. It was a comedy in the style of Goldoni's
early pieces, representing the actual life of the day, but interspersed with the antics of
the masks, to whose improvised drolleries the people still clung. A terrific Don Spavento in
cloak and sword played the jealous English nobleman, Milord Zambo, and the part of Tartaglia
was taken by the manager, one of the best-known interpreters of the character in Italy. Tartaglia
was the guardian of the prima amorosa, whom the enamoured Briton pursued; and in the Columbine,
when she sprang upon the stage with a pirouette that showed her slender ankles and embroidered
clocks, Odo instantly recognised the graceful figure and killing glance of his masked beauty.
Her face, which was now uncovered, more than fulfilled the promise of her eyes, being indeed
as arch and engaging a countenance as ever flashed distraction across the foot-lights. She
was greeted with an outburst of delight that cost her a sour glance from the prima amorosa,
and presently the theatre was ringing with her improvised sallies, uttered in the gay staccato
of the Venetian dialect. There was to Odo something perplexingly familiar in this accent and
in the light darting movements of her little head framed in a Columbine's ruff, with a red
rose thrust behind one ear; but after a rapid glance about the house she appeared to take no
notice of him and he began to think it must be to some one else he owed his invitation.

From this question he was soon diverted by his increasing enjoyment of the play. It was not
indeed a remarkable example of its kind, being crudely enough put together, and turning on
a series of ridiculous and disconnected incidents; but to a taste formed on the frigid elegancies
of Metastasio and the French stage there was something refreshing in this plunge into the coarse
homely atmosphere of the old popular theatre. Extemporaneous comedies were no longer played
in the great cities, and Odo listened with surprise to the swift thrust and parry, the inexhaustible
flow of jest and repartee, the readiness with which the comedians caught up each other's leads,
like dancers whirling without a false step through the mazes of some rapid contradance.

So engaged was he that he no longer observed the Columbine save as a figure in this flying
reel; but presently a burst of laughter fixed his attention and he saw that she was darting
across the stage pursued by Milord Zambo, who, furious at the coquetries of his betrothed,
was avenging himself by his attentions to the Columbine. Half way across, her foot caught and
she fell on one knee. Zambo rushed to the rescue; but springing up instantly, and feigning
to treat his advance as a part of the play, she cried out with a delicious assumption of outraged
dignity:--

"Not a step farther, villain! Know that it is sacrilege for a common mortal to embrace one
who has been kissed by his most illustrious Highness the Heir-presumptive of Pianura!"

"Mirandolina of Chioggia!" sprang to Odo's lips. At the same instant the Columbine turned about
and swept him a deep curtsey, to the delight of the audience, who had no notion of what was
going forward, but were in the humour to clap any whim of their favourite's; then she turned
and darted off the stage, and the curtain fell on a tumult of applause.

Odo had hardly recovered from his confusion when the door of the box opened and the young Scaramouch
he had seen in the market-place peeped in and beckoned to Cantapresto. The soprano rose with
alacrity, leaving Odo alone in the dimly-lit box, his mind agrope in a labyrinth of memories.
A moment later Cantapresto returned with that air of furtive relish that always proclaimed
him the bearer of a tender message. The one he now brought was to the effect that the Signorina
Miranda Malmocco, justly renowned as one of the first Columbines of Italy, had charged him
to lay at the Cavaliere Valsecca's feet her excuses for the liberty she had taken with his
illustrious name, and to entreat that he would show his magnanimity by supping with her after
the play in her room at the Three Crowns--a request she was emboldened to make by the fact
that she was lately from Pianura, and could give him the last news of the court.

The message chimed with Odo's mood, and the play over he hastened back to the inn with Cantapresto,
and bid the landlord send to the Signorina Miranda's room whatever delicacies the town could
provide. Odo on arriving that afternoon had himself given orders that his carriage should be
at the door the next morning an hour before sunrise; and he now repeated these instructions
to Cantapresto, charging him on his life to see that nothing interfered with their fulfilment.
The soprano objected that the hour was already late, and that they could easily perform the
day's journey without curtailing their rest; but on Odo's reiteration of the order he resigned
himself, with the remark that it was a pity old age had no savings-bank for the sleep that
youth squandered.

2.8.

It was something of a disappointment to Odo, on entering the Signorina Miranda's room, to find
that she was not alone. Engaged in feeding her pet monkey with sugar-plums was the young man
who had given her his arm in the Piazza. This gentleman, whom she introduced to Odo as her
cousin and travelling companion, the Count of Castelrovinato, had the same air of tarnished
elegance as his richly-laced coat and discoloured ruffles. He seemed, however, of a lively
and obliging humour, and Mirandolina observed with a smile that she could give no better notion
of his amiability than by mentioning that he was known among her friends as the Cavaliere Frattanto.
This praise, Odo thought, seemed scarcely to the cousin's liking; but he carried it off with
the philosophic remark that it is the mortar between the bricks that holds the building together.

"At present," said Mirandolina laughing, "he is engaged in propping up a ruin; for he has fallen
desperately in love with our prima amorosa, a lady who lost her virtue under the Pharaohs,
but whom, for his sake, I have been obliged to include in our little supper."

This, it was clear, was merely a way of palliating the Count's infatuation for herself; but
he took the second thrust as good-naturedly as the first, remarking that he had been bred for
an archeologist and had never lost his taste for the antique.

Odo's servants now appearing with a pasty of beccafichi, some bottles of old Malaga and a tray
of ices and fruits, the three seated themselves at the table, which Mirandolina had decorated
with a number of wax candles stuck in the cut-glass bottles of the Count's dressing-case. Here
they were speedily joined by the actress's monkey and parrot, who had soon spread devastation
among the dishes. While Miranda was restoring order by boxing the monkey's ears and feeding
the shrieking bird from her lips, the door opened to admit the prima amorosa, a lady whose
mature charms and mellifluous manner suggested a fine fruit preserved in syrup. The newcomer
was clearly engrossed in captivating the Count, and the latter amply justified his nick-name
by the cynical complaisance with which he cleared the way for Odo by responding to her advances.

The tete-a-tete thus established, Miranda at once began to excuse herself for the means she
had taken to attract Odo's attention at the theatre. She had heard from the innkeeper that
the Duke of Pianura's cousin, the Cavaliere Valsecca, was expected that day in Vercelli; and
seeing in the Piazza a young gentleman in travelling-dress and French toupet, had at once guessed
him to be the distinguished stranger from Turin. At the theatre she had been much amused by
the air of apprehension with which Odo had appeared to seek, among the dowdy or vulgar inmates
of the boxes, the sender of the mysterious billet; and the contrast between the elegant gentleman
in embroidered coat and gold-hilted sword, and the sleepy bewildered little boy of the midnight
feast at Chivasso, had seized her with such comic effect that she could not resist a playful
allusion to their former meeting. All this was set forth with so sprightly an air of mock-contrition
that, had Odo felt the least resentment, it must instantly have vanished. He was, however,
in the humour to be pleased by whatever took his mind off his own affairs, and none could be
more skilled than Mirandolina in profiting by such a mood.

He pressed her to tell him something of what had befallen her since they had met, but she replied
by questioning him about his own experiences, and on learning that he had been called to Pianura
on account of the heir's ill-health she declared it was notorious that the little prince had
not long to live, and that the Duke could not hope for another son.

"The Duke's life, however," said Odo, "is as good as mine, and in truth I am far less moved
by my remote hopes of the succession than by the near prospect of visiting so many famous cities
and seeing so much that is novel and entertaining."

Miranda shrugged her pretty shoulders. "Why, as to the Duke's life," said she, "there are some
that would not give a counterfeit penny for it; but indeed his Highness lives so secluded from
the world, and is surrounded by persons so jealous to conceal his true condition even from
the court, that the reports of his health are no more to be trusted than the other strange
rumours about him. I was told in Pianura that but four persons are admitted to his familiarity:
his confessor, his mistress, Count Trescorre, who is already comptroller of finance and will
soon be prime-minister, and a strange German doctor or astrologer that is lately come to the
court. As to the Duchess, she never sees him; and were it not for Trescorre, who has had the
wit to stand well with both sides, I doubt if she would know more of what goes on about her
husband than any scullion in the ducal kitchens."

She spoke with the air of one well-acquainted with the subject, and Odo, curious to learn more,
asked her how she came to have such an insight into the intrigues of the court.

"Why," said she, "in the oddest way imaginable--by being the guest of his lordship the Bishop
of Pianura; and since you asked me just now to tell you something of my adventures, I will,
if you please, begin by relating the occurrences that procured me this extraordinary honour.
But first," she added with a smile, "would it not be well to open another bottle of Malaga?"

MIRANDOLINA'S STORY.

You must know, she continued, when Odo had complied with her request, that soon after our parting
at Chivasso the company with which I was travelling came to grief through the dishonesty of
the Harlequin, who ran away with the Capo Comico's wife, carrying with him, besides the lady,
the far more irretrievable treasure of our modest earnings. This brought us to destitution,
and the troop was disbanded. I had nothing but the spangled frock on my back, and thinking
to make some use of my sole possession I set out as a dancer with the flute-player of the company,
a good-natured fellow that had a performing marmozet from the Indies. We three wandered from
one town to another, spreading our carpet wherever there was a fair or a cattle-market, going
hungry in bad seasons, and in our luckier days attaching ourselves to some band of strolling
posture-makers or comedians.

One day, after about a year of this life, I had the good fortune, in the market-place of Parma,
to attract the notice of a rich English nobleman who was engaged in writing a book on the dances
of the ancients. This gentleman, though no longer young, and afflicted with that strange English
malady that obliges a man to wrap his feet in swaddling-clothes like a new-born infant, was
of a generous and paternal disposition, and offered, if I would accompany him to Florence,
to give me a home and a genteel education. I remained with him about two years, during which
time he had me carefully instructed in music, French and the art of the needle. In return for
this, my principal duties were to perform in antique dances before the friends of my benefactor--whose
name I could never learn to pronounce--and to read aloud to him the works of the modern historians
and philosophers.

We lived in a large palace with exceedingly high-ceilinged rooms, which my friend would never
have warmed on account of his plethoric habit, and as I had to dance at all seasons in the
light draperies worn by the classical goddesses, I suffered terribly from chilblains and contracted
a cruel cough. To this, however, I might have resigned myself; but when I learned from a young
abate who frequented the house that the books I was compelled to read were condemned by the
Church, and could not be perused without deadly peril to the soul, I at once resolved to fly
from such contaminating influences. Knowing that his lordship would not consent to my leaving
him, I took the matter out of his hands by slipping out one day during the carnival, carrying
with me from that accursed house nothing but the few jewels that my benefactor had expressed
the intention of leaving me in his will. At the nearest church I confessed my involuntary sin
in reading the prohibited books, and having received absolution and the sacrament, I joined
my friend the abate at Cafaggiolo, whence we travelled to Modena, where he was acquainted with
a theatrical manager just then in search of a Columbine. My dancing and posturing at Florence
had given me something of a name among the dilettanti, and I was at once engaged by the manager,
who took me to Venice, where I subsequently joined the company of the excellent Tartaglia with
whom I am now acting. Since then I have been attended by continued success, which I cannot
but ascribe to my virtuous resolve to face poverty and distress rather than profit a moment
longer by the beneficence of an atheist.

All this I have related to show you how the poor ignorant girl you met at Chivasso was able
to acquire something of the arts and usages of good company; but I will now pass on to the
incident of my visit to Pianura. Our manager, then, had engaged some time since to give a series
of performances at Pianura during the last carnival. The Bishop's nephew, Don Serafino, who
has a pronounced taste for the theatre, had been instrumental in making the arrangement; but
at the last moment he wrote us that, owing to the influence of the Duke's confessor, the Bishop
had been obliged to prohibit the appearance of women on the stage of Pianura. This was a cruel
blow, as we had prepared a number of comedies in which I was to act the leading part; and Don
Serafino was equally vexed, since he did me the honour of regarding me as the chief ornament
of the company. At length it was agreed that, to overcome the difficulty, it should be given
out that the celebrated Tartaglia of Rimini would present himself at Pianura with his company
of comedians, among whom was the popular favourite, Mirandolino of Chioggia, twin brother of
the Signorina Miranda Malmocco, and trained by that actress to play in all her principal parts.

This satisfied the scruples and interests of all concerned, and soon afterward I made my first
appearance in Pianura. My success was greater than we had foreseen; for I threw myself into
the part with such zest that every one was taken in, and even Don Serafino required the most
categorical demonstration to convince him that I was not my own brother. The illusion I produced
was, however, not without its inconveniences; for, among the ladies who thronged to see the
young Mirandolino, were several who desired a closer acquaintance with him; and one of these,
as it happened, was the Duke's mistress, the Countess Belverde. You will see the embarrassment
of my situation. If I failed to respond to her advances, her influence was sufficient to drive
us from the town at the opening of a prosperous season; if I discovered my sex to her, she
might more cruelly avenge herself by throwing the whole company into prison, to be dealt with
by the Holy Office. Under these circumstances, I decided to appeal to the Bishop, but without,
of course, revealing to him that I was, so to speak, my own sister. His lordship, who is never
sorry to do the Belverde a bad turn, received me with the utmost indulgence, and declared that,
to protect my innocence from the designs of this new Potiphar's wife, he would not only give
me a lodging in the Episcopal palace, but confer on me the additional protection of the minor
orders. This was rather more than I had bargained for, but he that wants the melon is a fool
to refuse the rind, and I thanked the Bishop for his kindness and allowed him to give out that,
my heart having been touched by grace, I had resolved, at the end of the season, to withdraw
from the stage and prepare to enter the Church.

I now fancied myself safe; for I knew the Countess could not attempt my removal without risk
of having her passion denounced to the Duke. I spent several days very agreeably in the Episcopal
palace, entertained at his lordship's own table, and favoured with private conversations during
which he told me many curious and interesting things about the Duke and the court, and delicately
abstained from all allusion to my coming change of vocation. The Countess, however, had not
been idle. One day I received notice that the Holy Office disapproved of the appearance on
the stage of a young man about to enter the Church, and requested me to withdraw at once to
the Barnabite monastery, where I was to remain till I received the minor orders. Now the Abbot
of the Barnabites was the Belverde's brother, and I saw at once that to obey his order would
place me in that lady's power. I again addressed myself to the Bishop, but to my despair he
declared himself unable to aid me farther, saying that he dared not offend the Holy Office,
and that he had already run considerable risk in protecting me from the Countess.

I was accordingly transferred to the monastery, in spite of my own entreaties and those of
the good Tartaglia, who moved heaven and earth to save his Columbine from sequestration. You
may imagine my despair. My fear of doing Tartaglia an injury kept me from revealing my sex,
and for twenty-four hours I languished in my cell, refusing food and air, and resisting the
repeated attempts of the good monks to alleviate my distress. At length however I bethought
me that the Countess would soon appear; and it flashed across me that the one person who could
protect me from her was her brother. I at once sought an interview with the Abbot, who received
me with great indulgence. I explained to him that the distress I suffered was occasioned by
the loss that my sequestration was causing my excellent manager, and begged him to use his
influence to have me released from the monastery. The Abbot listened attentively, and after
a pause replied that there was but one person who could arrange the matter, and that was his
sister the Countess Belverde, whose well-known piety gave her considerable influence in such
matters. I now saw that no alternative remained but to confess the truth; and with tears of
agitation I avowed my sex, and threw myself on his mercy.

I was not disappointed in the result. The Abbot listened with the greatest benevolence to all
the details of my adventure. He laughed heartily at his sister's delusion, but said I had done
right in not undeceiving her, as her dread of ridicule might have led to unpleasant reprisals.
He declared that for the present he could not on any account consent to let me out of his protection;
but he promised if I submitted myself implicitly to his guidance, not only to preserve me from
the Belverde's machinations, but to ensure my reappearing on the stage within two days at the
latest. Knowing him to be a very powerful personage I thought it best to accept these conditions,
which in any case it would have been difficult to resist; and the next day he informed me that
the Holy Office had consented to the Signorina Miranda Malmocco's appearing on the stage of
Pianura during the remainder of the season, in consideration of the financial injury caused
to the manager of the company by the edifying conversion of her twin-brother.

"In this way," the Abbot was pleased to explain, "you will be quite safe from my sister, who
is a woman of the most unexceptionable morals, and at the same time you will not expose our
excellent Bishop to the charge of having been a party to a grave infraction of ecclesiastical
discipline.--My only condition," he added with a truly paternal smile, "is that, after the
Signorina Miranda's performance at the theatre her twin-brother the Signor Mirandolino shall
return every evening to the monastery: a condition which seems necessary to the preservation
of our secret, and which I trust you will not regard as too onerous, in view of the service
I have been happy enough to render you."

It would have ill become me to dispute the excellent ecclesiastic's wishes, and Tartaglia and
the rest of the company having been sworn to secrecy, I reappeared that very evening in one
of my favourite parts, and was afterward carried back to the monastery in the most private
manner. The Signorina Malmocco's successes soon repaired the loss occasioned by her brother's
withdrawal, and if any suspected their identity all were interested to conceal their suspicions.

Thus it came about that my visit to Pianura, having begun under the roof of a Bishop, ended
in a monastery of Barnabites--nor have I any cause to complain of the hospitality of either
of my hosts...

      *      *      *      *      *

Odo, charmed by the vivacity with which this artless narrative was related, pressed Miranda
to continue the history of her adventures. The actress laughingly protested that she must first
refresh herself with one of the ices he had so handsomely provided; and meanwhile she begged
the Count to favour them with a song.

This gentleman, who seemed glad of any pretext for detaching himself from his elderly flame,
rescued Mirandolina's lute from the inquisitive fingering of the monkey, and striking a few
melancholy chords, sang the following words, which he said he had learned from a peasant of
the Abruzzi:--

    Flower of the thyme!
    She draws me as your fragrance draws the bees,
    She draws me as the cold moon draws the seas,
    And summer winter-time.

    Flower of the broom!
    Like you she blossoms over dark abysses,
    And close to ruin bloom her sweetest kisses,
    And on the brink of doom.

    Flower of the rue!
    She wore you on her breast when first we met.
    I begged your blossom and I wear it yet--
    Flower of regret!

The song ended, the prima amorosa, overcome by what she visibly deemed an appeal to her feelings,
declared with some agitation that the hour was late and she must withdraw. Miranda wished the
actress an affectionate goodnight and asked the Count to light her to her room, which was on
the farther side of the gallery surrounding the courtyard of the inn. Castelrovinato complied
with his usual air of resignation, and the door closing on the couple, Odo and Miranda found
themselves alone.

"And now," said the good-natured girl, placing herself on the sofa and turning to her guest
with a smile, "if you will take a seat at my side I will gladly continue the history of my
adventures"...

2.9.

Odo woke with a start. He had been trying to break down a great gold-barred gate, behind which
Fulvia, pale and disordered, struggled in the clutch of the blind beggar of the Corpus Domini...

He sat up and looked about him. The gate was still there; but as he gazed it resolved itself
into his shuttered window, barred with wide lines of sunlight. It was day, then! He sprang
out of bed and flung open the shutters. Beneath him lay the piazza of Vercelli, bathed in the
vertical brightness of a summer noon; and as he stared out on this inexorable scene, the clock
over the Hospital struck twelve.

Twelve o'clock! And he had promised to meet Vivaldi at dawn behind the Umiliati! As the truth
forced itself on Odo he dropped into a chair and hid his face with a groan. He had failed them
again, then--and this time how cruelly and basely! He felt himself the victim of a conspiracy
which in some occult manner was forever forcing him to outrage and betray the two beings he
most longed to serve. The idea of a conspiracy flashed a sudden light on his evening's diversion,
and he sprang up with a cry. Yes! It was a plot, and any but a dolt must have traced the soprano's
hand in this vulgar assault upon his senses. He choked with anger at the thought of having
played the dupe when two lives he cherished were staked upon his vigilance...

To his furious summons Cantapresto presented a blank wall of ignorance. Yes, the Cavaliere
had given orders that the carriage should be ready before daybreak; but who was authorised
to wake the cavaliere? After keeping the carriage two hours at the door Cantapresto had ventured
to send it back to the stable; but the horses should instantly be put to, and within an hour
they would be well forward on their journey. Meanwhile, should the barber be summoned at once?
Or would the cavaliere first refresh himself with an excellent cup of chocolate, prepared under
Cantapresto's own supervision?

Odo turned on him savagely. "Traitor--spy! In whose pay--?"

But the words roused him to a fresh sense of peril. Cantapresto, though he might have guessed
Odo's intention, was not privy to his plan of rejoining Vivaldi and Fulvia; and it flashed
across the young man that his self-betrayal must confirm the others' suspicions. His one hope
of protecting his friends was to affect indifference to what had happened; and this was made
easier, by the reflection that Cantapresto was after all but a tool in more powerful hands.
To be spied on was so natural to an Italian of that day that the victim's instinct was rather
to circumvent the spy than to denounce him.

Odo dismissed Cantapresto with the reply that he would give orders about the carriage later;
desiring that meanwhile the soprano should purchase the handsomest set of filigree ornaments
to be found in Vercelli, and carry them with the Cavaliere Valsecca's compliments to the Signorina
Malmocco.

Having thus rid himself of observation he dressed as rapidly as possible, trying the while
to devise some means of tracing Vivaldi. But the longer he pondered the attempt the more plainly
he saw its futility. Vivaldi, doubtless from motives of prudence, had not named the friend
with whom he and Fulvia were to take shelter; nor did Odo even know in what quarter of the
city to seek them. To question the police was to risk their last chance of safety; and for
the same reason he dared not enquire of the posting-master whether any travellers had set out
that morning for Lombardy. His natural activity of mind was hampered by a leaden sense of remissness.
With what anguish of spirit must Vivaldi and Fulvia have awaited him in that hour of dawn behind
the convent! What thoughts must have visited the girl's mind as day broadened, the city woke,
and peril pressed on them with every voice and eye! And when at length they saw that he had
failed them, which way did their hunted footsteps turn? Perhaps they dared not go back to the
friend who had taken them in for the night. Perhaps even now they wandered through the streets,
fearing arrest if they revealed themselves by venturing to engage a carriage, at every turn
of his thoughts Odo was mocked by some vision of disaster; and an hour of perplexity yielded
no happier expedient than that of repairing to the meeting-place behind the Umiliati. It was
a deserted lane with few passers; and after vainly questioning the blank wall of the convent
and the gates of a sinister-looking alms-house that faced it, he retraced his steps to the inn.

He spent a day of futile research and bitter thoughts, now straying forth in the hope of meeting
Vivaldi, now hastening back to the Three Crowns on the chance that some message might await
him. He dared not let his mind rest on what might have befallen his friends; yet the alternative
of contemplating his own course was scarcely more endurable. Nightfall brought the conviction
that the Professor and Fulvia had passed beyond his reach. It was clear that if they were still
in Vercelli they did not mean to make their presence known to him, while in the event of their
escape he was without means of tracing them farther. He knew indeed that their destination
was Milan, but, should they reach there safely, what hope was there of finding them in a city
of strangers? By a stroke of folly he had cut himself off from all communication with them,
and his misery was enhanced by the discovery of his weakness. He who had fed his fancy on high
visions, cherishing in himself the latent patriot and hero, had been driven by a girl's caprice
to break the first law of manliness and honour! The event had already justified her; and in
a flash of self-contempt he saw himself as she no doubt beheld him--the fribble preying like
a summer insect on the slow growths of difficult years...

In bitterness of spirit he set out the next morning for Pianura. A half-melancholy interest
drew him back to the scene of his lonely childhood, and he had started early in order to push
on that night to Pontesordo. At Valsecca, the regular posting-station between Vercelli and
Pianura, he sent Cantapresto forward to the capital, and in a stormy yellow twilight drove
alone across the waste land that dipped to the marshes. On his right the woods of the ducal
chase hung black against the sky; and presently he saw ahead of him the old square keep, with
a flight of swallows circling low about its walls.

In the muddy farm-yard a young man was belabouring a donkey laden with mulberry-shoots. He
stared for a moment at Odo's approach and then sullenly returned to his task.

Odo sprang out into the mud. "Why do you beat the brute?" said he indignantly. The other turned
a dull face on him and he recognised his old enemy Giannozzo.

"Giannozzo," he cried, "don't you know me? I am the Cavaliere Valsecca, whose ears you used
to box when you were a lad. Must you always be pummelling something, that you can't let that
poor brute alone at the end of its day's work?"

Giannozzo, dropping his staff, stammered out that he craved his excellency's pardon for not
knowing him, but that as for the ass it was a stubborn devil that would not have carried Jesus
Christ without gibbing.

"The beast is tired and hungry," cried Odo, his old compassion for the sufferings of the farm-animals
suddenly reviving. "How many hours have you worked it without rest or food?"

"No more than I have worked myself," said Giannozzo sulkily; "and as for its being hungry,
why should it fare better than its masters?"

Their words had called out of the house a lean bent woman, whose shrivelled skin showed through
the rents in her unbleached shift. At sight of Odo she pushed Giannozzo aside and hurried forward
to ask how she might serve the gentleman.

"With supper and a bed, my good Filomena," said Odo; and she flung herself at his feet with a cry.

"Saints of heaven, that I should not have known his excellency! But I am half blind with the
fever, and who could have dreamed of such an honour?" She clung to his knees in the mud, kissing
his hands and calling down blessings on him. "And as for you, Giannozzo, you curd-faced fool,
quick, see that his excellency's horses are stabled and go call your father from the cow-house
while I prepare his excellency's supper. And fetch me in a faggot to light the fire in the
bailiff's parlour."

Odo followed her into the kitchen, where he had so often crouched in a corner to eat his polenta
out of reach of her vigorous arm. The roof seemed lower and more smoke-blackened than ever,
but the hearth was cold, and he noticed that no supper was laid. Filomena led him into the
bailiff's parlour, where a mortal chill seized him. Cobwebs hung from the walls, the window-panes
were broken and caked with grime, and the few green twigs which Giannozzo presently threw on
the hearth poured a cloud of smoke into the cold heavy air.

There was a long delay while supper was preparing, and when at length Filomena appeared, it
was only to produce, with many excuses, a loaf of vetch-bread, a bit of cheese and some dried
quinces. There was nothing else in the house, she declared: not so much as a bit of lard to
make soup with, a handful of pasti or a flask of wine. In the old days, as his excellency might
remember, they had eaten a bit of meat on Sundays, and drunk aquarolle with their supper; but
since the new taxes it was as much as the farmers could do to feed their cattle, without having
a scrap to spare for themselves. Jacopone, she continued, was bent double with the rheumatism,
and had not been able to drive a plough or to work in the mulberries for over two years. He
and the farm-lads sat in the cow-stables when their work was over, for the sake of the heat,
and she carried their black bread out there to them: a cold supper tasted better in a warm
place, and as his excellency knew, all the windows in the house were unglazed save in the bailiff's
parlour. Her man would be in presently to pay his duty to his excellency; but he had grown
dull-witted since the rheumatism took him, and his excellency must not take it ill if his talk
was a little childish.

Thereupon Filomena excused herself, that she might put a clean shirt on Jacopone, and Odo was
left to his melancholy musings. His mind had of late run much on economic abuses; but what
was any philandering with reform to this close contact with misery? It was as though white
hungry faces had suddenly stared in at the windows of his brightly-lit life. What did these
people care for education, enlightenment, the religion of humanity? What they wanted was fodder
for their cattle, a bit of meat on Sundays and a faggot on the hearth.

Filomena presently returned with her husband; but Jacopone had shrunk into a crippled tremulous
old man, who pulled a vague forelock at Odo without sign of recognition. Filomena, it was clear,
was master at Pontesordo; for though Giannozzo was a man grown, and did a man's work, he still
danced to the tune of his mother's tongue. It was from her that Odo, shivering over the smoky
hearth, gathered the details of their wretched state. Pontesordo being a part of the ducal
domain, they had led in their old days an easier life than their neighbours; but the new taxes
had stripped them as bare as a mulberry-tree in June.

"How is a Christian to live, excellency, with the salt-tax doubled, so that the cows go dry
for want of it; with half a zecchin on every pair of oxen, a stajo of wheat and two fowls to
the parish, and not so much as a bite of grass allowed on the Duke's lands? In his late Highness's
day the poor folk were allowed to graze their cattle on the borders of the chase; but now a
man dare not pluck a handful of weeds there, or so much as pick up a fallen twig; though the
deer may trample his young wheat, and feed off the patch of beans at his very door. They do
say the Duchess has a kind heart, and gives away money to the towns-folk; but we country-people
who spend our lives raising fodder for her game never hear of her Highness but when one of
her game-keepers comes down on us for poaching or stealing wood.--Yes, by the saints, and it
was her Highness who sent a neighbour's lad to the galleys last year for felling a tree in
the chase; a good lad as ever dug furrow, but he lacked wood for a new plough-share, and how
in God's name was he to plough his field without it?"

So she went on, like a torrent after the spring rains; but when he named Momola she fell silent,
and Giannozzo, looking sideways, drummed with his heel on the floor.

Odo glanced from one to the other. "She's dead, then?" he cried.

Filomena opened deprecating palms. "Can one tell, excellency? It may be she is off with the
gypsies."

"The gypsies? How long since?"

"Giannozzo," cried his mother, as he stood glowering, "go see that the stable is locked and
his excellency's horses bedded down." He slunk out and she began to gather up the remains of
Odo's meagre supper.

"But you must remember when this happened."

"Holy Mother! It was the year we had frost in April and lost our hatching for want of leaves.
But as for that child of ingratitude, one day she was here, the next she was gone--clean gone,
as a nut drops from the tree--and I that had given the blood of my veins to nourish her! Since
then, God is my witness, we have had nothing but misfortune. The next year it was the weevils
in the wheat; and so it goes."

Odo was silent, seeing it was vain to press her. He fancied that the girl must have died--of
neglect perhaps, or ill usage--and that they feared to own it. His heart swelled, but not against
them: they seemed to him no more accountable than cowed hunger-driven animals.

He tossed impatiently on the hard bed Filomena had made up for him in the bailiff's parlour,
and was afoot again with the first light. Stepping out into the farm-yard he looked abroad
over the flat grey face of the land. Around the keep stretched the new-ploughed fields and
the pollarded mulberry orchards; but these, with the clustered hovels of the village, formed
a mere islet in the surrounding waste of marsh and woodland. The scene symbolised fitly enough
of social conditions of the country: the over-crowded peasantry huddled on their scant patches
of arable ground, while miles of barren land represented the feudal rights that hemmed them
in on every side.

Odo walked across the yard to the chapel. On the threshold he stumbled over a heap of mulberry-shoots
and a broken plough-share. Twilight held the place; but as he stood there the frescoes started
out in the slant of the sunrise like dead faces floating to the surface of a river. Dead faces,
yes: plaintive spectres of his childish fears and longings, lost in the harsh daylight of experience.
He had forgotten the very dreams they stood for: Lethe flowed between and only one voice reached
across the torrent. It was that of Saint Francis, lover of the poor...

The morning was hot as Odo drove toward Pianura, and limping ahead of him in the midday glare
he presently saw the figure of a hump-backed man in a decent black dress and three-cornered
hat. There was something familiar in the man's gait, and in the shape of his large head, poised
on narrow stooping shoulders, and as the carriage drew abreast of him, Odo, leaning from the
window, cried out, "Brutus--this must be Brutus!"

"Your excellency has the advantage of me," said the hunchback, turning on him a thin face lit
by the keen eyes that had once searched his childish soul.

Odo met the rebuff with a smile. "Does that," said he, "prevent my suggesting that you might
continue your way more comfortably in my carriage? The road is hot and dusty, and, as you see,
I am in want of company."

The pedestrian, who seemed unprepared for this affable rejoinder, had the sheepish air of a
man whose rudeness has missed the mark.

"Why, sir," said he, recovering himself, "comfort is all a matter of habit, and I daresay the
jolting of your carriage might seem to me more unpleasant than the heat and dust of the road,
to which necessity has long since accustomed me."

"In that case," returned Odo with increasing amusement, "you will have the additional merit
of sacrificing your pleasure to add to mine."

The hunchback stared. "And what have you or yours ever done for me," he retorted, "that I should
sacrifice to your pleasure even the wretched privilege of being dusted by the wheels of your
coach?"

"Why, that," replied Odo, "is a question I can scarce answer till you give me the opportunity
of naming myself.--If you are indeed Carlo Gamba," he continued, "I am your old friend and
companion Odo Valsecca."

The hunchback started. "The Cavaliere Valsecca!" he cried. "I had heard that you were expected."
He stood gazing at Odo. "Our next Duke!" he muttered.

Odo smiled. "I had rather," he said, "that my past commended me than my future. It is more
than doubtful if I am ever able to offer you a seat in the Duke's carriage; but Odo Valsecca's
is very much at your service."

Gamba bowed with a kind of awkward dignity. "I am grateful for a friend's kindness," he said,
"but I do not ride in a nobleman's carriage."

"There," returned Odo with perfect good-humour, "you have had advantage of ME; for I can no
more escape doing so than you can escape spending your life in the company of an ill-tempered
man." And courteously lifting his hat he called to the postillion to drive on.

The hunchback at this, flushing red, laid a hand on the carriage door.

"Sir," said he, "I freely own myself in the wrong; but a smooth temper was not one of the blessings
my unknown parents bequeathed to me; and I confess I had heard of you as one little concerned
with your inferiors except as they might chance to serve your pleasure."

It was Odo's turn to colour. "Look," said he, "at the fallibility of rumour; for I had heard
of you as something of a philosopher, and here I find you not only taking a man's character
on hearsay but denying him the chance to prove you mistaken!"

"I deny it no longer," said Gamba stepping into the coach; "but as to philosophy, the only
claim I can make to it is that of being by birth a peripatetic."

His dignity appeased, the hunchback proved himself a most engaging companion, and as the carriage
lumbered slowly toward Pianura he had time not only to recount his own history but to satisfy
Odo as to many points of the life awaiting him.

Gamba, it appeared, owed his early schooling to a Jesuit priest who, visiting the foundling
asylum, had been struck by the child's quickness, and had taken him home and bred him to be
a clerk. The priest's death left his charge adrift, with a smattering of scholarship above
his station, and none to whom he could turn for protection. For a while he had lived, as he
said, like a street-cat, picking up a meal where he could, and sleeping in church porches and
under street-arcades, till one of the Duke's servants took pity on him and he was suffered
to hang about the palace and earn his keep by doing the lacquey's errands. The Duke's attention
having been called to him as a lad of parts, his Highness had given him to the Marquess of
Cerveno, in whose service he remained till shortly before that young nobleman's death. The
hunchback passed hastily over this period; but his reticence was lit by the angry flash of
his eyes. After the Marquess's death he had lived for a while from hand to mouth, copying music,
writing poetry for weddings and funerals, doing pen-and-ink portraits at a scudo apiece, and
putting his hand to any honest job that came his way. Count Trescorre, who now and then showed
a fitful recognition of the tie that was supposed to connect them, at length heard of the case
to which he was come and offered him a trifling pension. This the hunchback refused, asking
instead to be given some fixed employment. Trescorre then obtained his appointment as assistant
to the Duke's librarian, a good old priest engrossed in compiling the early history of Pianura
from the ducal archives; and this post Gamba had now filled for two years.

"It must," said Odo, "be one singularly congenial to you, if, as I have heard, you are of a
studious habit. Though I suppose," he tentatively added, "the library is not likely to be rich
in works of the new scientific and philosophic schools."

His companion received this observation in silence; and after a moment Odo continued: "I have
a motive in asking, since I have been somewhat deeply engaged in the study of these writers,
and my dearest wish is to continue while in Pianura my examination of their theories, and if
possible to become acquainted with any who share their views."

He was not insensible of the risk of thus opening himself to a stranger; but the sense of peril
made him the more eager to proclaim himself on the side of the cause he seemed to have deserted.

Gamba turned as he spoke, and their eyes met in one of those revealing glances that lay the
foundations of friendship.

"I fear, Cavaliere," said the hunchback with a smile, "that you will find both branches of
investigation somewhat difficult to pursue in Pianura; for the Church takes care that neither
the philosophers nor their books shall gain a footing in our most Christian state. Indeed,"
he added, "not only must the library be free from heretical works, but the librarian clear
of heretical leanings; and since you have honoured me with your confidence I will own that,
the court having got wind of my supposed tendency to liberalism, I live in daily expectation
of dismissal. For the moment they are content to keep their spies on me; but were it not for
the protection of the good abate, my superior, I should long since have been turned out."

"And why," asked Odo, "do you speak of the court and the Church as one?"

"Because, sir, in our virtuous duchy the terms are interchangeable. The Duke is in fact so
zealous a son of the Church that if the latter showed any leniency to sinners the secular arm
would promptly repair her negligence. His Highness, as you may have heard, is ruled by his
confessor, an adroit Dominican. The confessor, it is true, has two rivals, the Countess Belverde,
a lady distinguished for her piety, and a German astrologer or alchemist, lately come to Pianura,
and calling himself a descendant of the Egyptian priesthood and an adept of the higher or secret
doctrines of Neoplatonism. These three, however, though ostensibly rivals for the Duke's favour,
live on such good terms with one another that they are suspected of having entered into a secret
partnership; while some regard them all as the emissaries of the Jesuits, who, since the suppression
of the Society, are known to have kept a footing in Pianura, as in most of the Italian states.
As to the Duke, the death of the Marquess of Cerveno, the failing health of the little prince,
and his own strange physical infirmities, have so preyed on his mind that he is the victim
of any who are unscrupulous enough to trade on the fears of a diseased imagination. His counsellors,
however divided in doctrine, have at least one end in common; and that is, to keep the light
of reason out of the darkened chamber in which they have confined him; and with such a ruler
and such principles of government, you may fancy that poor philosophy has not where to lay
her head."

"And the people?" Odo pursued. "What of the fiscal administration? In some states where liberty
of thought is forbidden the material welfare of the subject is nevertheless considered."

The hunchback shook his head. "It may be so," said he, "though I had thought the principle
of moral tyranny must infect every branch of public administration. With us, at all events,
where the Church party rules, the privileges and exemptions of the clergy are the chief source
of suffering, and the state of passive ignorance in which they have kept the people has bred
in the latter a dull resignation that is the surest obstacle to reform. Oh, sir," he cried,
his eyes darkening with emotion, "if you could see, as I do, the blind brute misery on which
all the magnificence of rank and all the refinements of luxury are built, you would feel, as
you drive along this road, that with every turn of the wheels you are passing over the bodies
of those who have toiled without ceasing that you might ride in a gilt coach, and have gone
hungry that you might feast in Kings' palaces!"

The touch of rhetoric in this adjuration did not discredit it with Odo, to whom the words were
as caustic on an open wound. He turned to make some impulsive answer; but as he did so he caught
sight of the towers of Pianura rising above the orchards and market-gardens of the suburbs.
The sight started a new train of feeling, and Gamba, perceiving it, said quietly: "But this
is no time to speak of such things."

A moment later the carriage had passed under the great battlemented gates, with their Etruscan
bas-reliefs, and the motto of the house of Valsecca--Humilitas--surmounted by the ducal escutcheon.

Though the hour was close on noon the streets were as animated as at the angelus, and the carriage
could hardly proceed for the crowd obstructing its passage. So unusual at that period was such
a sight in one of the lesser Italian cities that Odo turned to Gamba for an explanation. At
the same moment a roar rose from the crowd; and the coach turning into the Corso which led
to the ducal palace and the centre of the town, Odo caught sight of a strange procession advancing
from that direction. It was headed by a clerk or usher with a black cap and staff, behind whom
marched two bare-foot friars escorting between them a middle-aged man in the dress of an abate,
his hands bound behind him and his head surmounted by a paste-board mitre inscribed with the
title: A Destroyer of Female Chastity. This man, who was of a simple and decent aspect, was
so dazed by the buffeting of the crowd, so spattered by the mud and filth hurled at him from
a hundred taunting hands, and his countenance distorted by so piteous a look of animal fear,
that he seemed more like a madman being haled to Bedlam than a penitent making public amends
for his offence.

"Are such failings always so severely punished in Pianura?" Odo asked, turning ironically to
Gamba as the mob and its victim passed out of sight.

The hunchback smiled. "Not," said he, "if the offender be in a position to benefit by the admirable
doctrines of probabilism, the direction of intention, or any one of the numerous expedients
by which an indulgent Church has smoothed the way of the sinner; but as God does not give the
crop unless man sows the seed, so His ministers bestow grace only when the penitent has enriched
the treasury. The fellow," he added, "is a man of some learning and of a retired and orderly
way of living, and the charge was brought against him by a jeweller and his wife, who owed
him a sum of money and are said to have chosen this way of evading payment. The priests are
always glad to find a scape-goat of the sort, especially when there are murmurs against the
private conduct of those in high places, and the woman, having denounced him, was immediately
assured by her confessor that any debt incurred to a seducer was null and void, and that she
was entitled to a hundred scudi of damages for having been led into sin."

2.10.

At the Duke's express wish, Odo was to lodge in the palace; and when he entered the courtyard
he found Cantapresto waiting to lead him to his apartment.

The rooms assigned to him lay at the end of one of the wings overlooking the gardens; and as
he mounted the great stairway and walked down the corridors with their frescoed walls and busts
of Roman emperors he recalled the far-off night when he had passed through the same scenes
as a frightened awe-struck child. Where he had then beheld a supernatural fabric, peopled with
divinities of bronze and marble, and glowing with light and colour, he now saw a many-corridored
palace, stately indeed, and full of a faded splendour, but dull and antiquated in comparison
with the new-fangled elegance of the Sardinian court. Yet at every turn some object thrilled
the fibres of old association or pride of race. Here he traversed a gallery hung with the portraits
of his line; there caught a glimpse of the pages' antechamber through which he and his mother
had been led when they waited on the Duke; and from the windows of his closet he overlooked
the alleys and terraces where he had wandered with the hunchback.

One of the Duke's pages came to say that his Highness would receive the cavaliere when the
court rose from dinner; and finding himself with two hours on his hands, Odo determined to
await his kinsman's summons in the garden. Thither he presently repaired; and was soon, with
a mournful pleasure, retracing the paths he had first explored in such an ecstasy of wonder.
The pleached walks and parterres were in all the freshness of June. Roses and jasmine mingled
on the terrace-walls, citron-trees ingeniously grafted with red and white carnations stood
in Faenza jars before the lemon-house, and marble nymphs and fauns peeped from thickets of
flowering camellias. A noise of childish voices presently attracted Odo, and following a tunnel
of clipped limes he came out on a theatre cut in the turf and set about with statues of Apollo
and the Muses. A handful of boys in military dress were performing a series of evolutions in
the centre of this space; and facing them stood a child of about ten years, in a Colonel's
uniform covered with orders, his hair curled and powdered, a paste-board sword in his hand,
and his frail body supported on one side by a turbaned dwarf, and on the other by an ecclesiastic
who was evidently his governor. The child, as Odo approached, was calling out his orders to
his regiment in a weak shrill voice, moving now here, now there on his booted tottering legs,
as his two supporters guided him, and painfully trying to flourish the paper weapon that was
too heavy for his nerveless wrist. Behind this strange group stood another figure, that of
a tall heavy man, richly dressed, with a curious Oriental-looking order on his breast and a
veiled somnolent eye which he kept fixed on the little prince.

Odo had been about to advance and do homage to his cousin; but a sign from the man in the background
arrested him. The manoeuvres were soon over, the heir was lifted into a little gilded chariot
drawn by white goats, his regiment formed in line and saluted him, and he disappeared down
one of the alleys with his attendants.

This ceremony over, the tall man advanced to Odo with a bow and asked pardon for the liberty
he had taken.

"You are doubtless," said he, "his Highness's cousin, the Cavaliere Valsecca; and my excuse
for intruding between yourself and the prince is that I am the Duke's physician, Count Heiligenstern,
and that the heir is at present undergoing a course of treatment under my care. His health,
as you probably know, has long been a cause of anxiety to his illustrious parents, and when
I was summoned to Pianura the College of Physicians had given up all hope of saving him. Since
my coming, however, I flatter myself that a marked change is perceptible. My method is that
of invigorating the blood by exciting the passions most likely to produce a generous vital
ardour. Thus, by organising these juvenile manoeuvres, I arouse the prince's martial zeal;
by encouraging him to study the history of his ancestors, I evoke his political ambition; by
causing him to be led about the gardens on a pony, accompanied by a miniature pack of Maltese
dogs in pursuit of a tame doe, I stimulate the passion of the chase; but it is essential to
my system that one emotion should not violently counteract another, and I am therefore obliged
to protect my noble patient from the sudden intrusion of new impressions."

This explanation, delivered in a sententious tone, and with a strong German accent, seemed
to Odo no more than a learned travesty of the familiar and pathetic expedient of distracting
a sick child by the pretence of manly diversions. He was struck, however, by the physician's
aspect, and would have engaged him in talk had not one of the Duke's gentlemen appeared with
the announcement that his Highness would be pleased to receive the Cavaliere Valsecca.

Like most dwellings of its kind in Italy, the palace of Pianura resembled one of those shells
which reveal by their outer convolutions the gradual development of the creature housed within.
For two or three generations after Bracciaforte, the terrible founder of the line, had made
himself master of the republic, his descendants had clung to the old brick fortress or rocca
which the great condottiere had held successfully against the burghers' arquebuses and the
battering-rams of rival adventurers, and which still glassed its battlements in the slow waters
of the Piana beside the city wall. It was Ascanio, the first Duke, the correspondent of Politian
and Castiglione, who, finding the ancestral lair too cramped for the court of a humanist prince,
had summoned Luciano da Laurana to build a palace better fitted to his state. Duke Ascanio,
in bronze by Verocchio, still looked up with pride from the palace-square at the brick and
terra-cotta facade with its fruit-wreathed arches crowned by imperial profiles; but a later
prince found the small rooms and intricate passages of Laurana's structure inadequate to the
pomp of an ally of Leo X., and Vignola added the state apartments, the sculpture gallery and
the libraries.

The palace now passed for one of the wonders of Italy. The Duke's guest, the witty and learned
Aretino, celebrated it in verse, his friend Cardinal Bembo in prose; Correggio painted the
walls of one room, Guilio Romano the ceiling of another. It seemed that magnificence could
go no farther, till the seventeenth century brought to the throne a Duke who asked himself
how a self-respecting prince could live without a theatre, a riding-school and an additional
wing to lodge the ever-growing train of court officials who had by this time replaced the feudal
men-at-arms. He answered the question by laying an extra tax on his people and inviting to
Pianura the great Roman architect Carlo Borromini, who regretfully admitted that his illustrious
patron was on the whole less royally housed than their Highnesses of Mantua and Parma. Within
five years the "cavallerizza," the theatre and the gardens flung defiance at these aspiring
potentates; and again Pianura took precedence of her rivals. The present Duke's father had
expressed the most recent tendency of the race by the erection of a chapel in the florid Jesuit
style; and the group of buildings thus chronicled in rich durable lines the varying passions
and ambitions of three hundred years of power.

As Odo followed his guide toward the Duke's apartments he remarked a change in the aspect of
the palace. Where formerly the corridors had been thronged with pages, lacqueys and gaily-dressed
cavaliers and ladies, only a few ecclesiastics now glided by: here a Monsignore in ermine and
lace rochet, attended by his chaplain and secretaries, there a cowled Dominican or a sober-looking
secular priest. The Duke was lodged in the oldest portion of the palace, and Odo, who had never
visited these apartments, looked with interest at the projecting sculptured chimney and vaulted
ceiling of the pages' ante-chamber, which had formerly been the guardroom and was still hung
with panoplies. Thence he was led into a gallery lined with scriptural tapestries and furnished
in the heavy style of the seventeenth century. Here he waited a few moments, hearing the sound
of conversation in the room beyond; then the door of this apartment opened, and a handsome
Dominican passed out, followed by a page who invited Odo to step into the Duke's cabinet.

This was a very small room, completely panelled in delicate wood-carving touched with gold.
Over this panelling, regardless of the beauty of its design, had been hung a mass of reliquaries
and small devotional bas-reliefs and paintings, making the room appear more like the chapel
of a wonder-working saint than a prince's closet. Here again Odo found himself alone; but the
page presently returned to say that his Highness was not well and begged the cavaliere to wait
on him in his bed-chamber.

The most conspicuous object in this room was a great bedstead raised on a dais. The plumed
posts and sumptuous hangings of the bed gave it an altar-like air, and the Duke himself, who
lay between the curtains, his wig replaced by a nightcap, a scapular about his neck, and his
shrivelled body wrapped in a brocaded dressing-gown, looked more like a relic than a man. His
heavy under-lip trembled slightly as he offered his hand to Odo's salute.

"You find me, cousin," said he after a brief greeting, "much troubled by a question that has
of late incessantly disturbed my rest--can the soul, after full intuition of God, be polluted
by the sins of the body?" he clutched Odo's hand in his burning grasp. "Is it possible that
there are human beings so heedless of their doom that they can go about their earthly pleasures
with this awful problem unsolved? Oh, why has not some Pope decided it? Why has God left this
hideous uncertainty hanging over us? You know the doctrine of Plotinus--'he who has access
to God leaves the virtues behind him as the images of the gods are left in the outer temple.'
Many of the fathers believed that the Neoplatonists were permitted to foreshadow in their teachings
the revelation of Christ; but on these occult points much doubt remains, and though certain
of the great theologians have inclined to this interpretation, there are others who hold that
it leans to the heresy of Quietism."

Odo, who had inferred in the Duke's opening words an allusion to the little prince's ill-health,
or to some political anxiety, was at a loss how to reply to this strange appeal; but after
a moment he said, "I have heard that your Highness's director is a man of great learning and
discrimination. Can he not help your Highness to some decision on this point?"

The Duke glanced at him suspiciously. "Father Ignazio," said he, "is in fact well-versed in
theology; but there are certain doctrines inaccessible to all but a few who have received the
direct illumination of heaven, and on this point I cannot feel that his judgment is final."
He wiped the dampness from his sallow forehead and pressed the scapular to his lips. "May you
never know," he cried, "the agony of a father whose child is dying, of a sovereign who longs
to labour for the welfare of his people, but who is racked by the thought that in giving his
mind to temporal duties and domestic affections while such spiritual difficulties are still
unsolved, he may be preparing for himself an eternity of torture such as that--" and he pointed
to an old and blackened picture of the Last Judgment that hung on the opposite wall.

Odo tried to frame a soothing rejoinder; but the Duke passionately interrupted him. "Alas,
cousin, no rest is possible for one who has attained the rapture of the Beatific Vision, yet
who trembles lest the mere mechanical indulgence of the senses may still subject him to the
common penalty of sin! As a man who has devoted himself to the study of theology is privileged
to argue on questions forbidden to the vulgar, so surely fasting, maceration and ecstasy must
liberate the body from the bondage of prescribed morality. Shall no distinction be recognised
between my conduct and that of the common sot or debauchee whose soul lies in blind subjection
to his lower instincts? I, who have laboured early and late to remove temptation from my people--who
have punished offences against conduct as unsparingly as spiritual error--I, who have not scrupled
to destroy every picture in my galleries that contained a nude figure or a wanton attitude--I,
who have been blessed from childhood by tokens of divine favour and miraculous intervention--can
I doubt that I have earned the privileges of that higher state in which the soul is no longer
responsible for the failings of the body? And yet--and yet--what if I were mistaken?" he moaned.
"What if my advisors have deceived me? Si autem et sic impius sum, quare frustra laboravi?"
And he sank back on his pillows limp as an empty glove.

Alarmed at his disorder, Odo stood irresolute whether to call for help; but as he hesitated
the Duke feebly drew from his bosom a gold key attached to a slender Venetian chain.

"This," said he, "unlocks the small tortoise-shell cabinet yonder. In it you will find a phial
of clear liquor, a few drops of which will restore me. 'Tis an essence distilled by the Benedictine
nuns of the Perpetual Adoration and peculiarly effective in accesses of spiritual disturbance."

Odo complied, and having poured the liquor into a glass, held it to his cousin's lips. In a
moment the Duke's eye revived and he began to speak in a weak but composed voice, with an air
of dignity in singular contrast to his previous self-abandonment. "I am," said he, "unhappily
subject to such seizures after any prolonged exertion, and a conversation I have just had with
my director has left me in no fit state to receive you. The cares of government sit heavy on
one who has scarce health enough for the duties of a private station; and were it not for my
son I should long since have withdrawn to the shelter of the monastic life." He paused and
looked at Odo with a melancholy kindness. "In you," said he, "the native weakness of our complexion
appears to have been tempered by the blood of your mother's house, and your countenance gives
every promise of health and vivacity."

He broke off with a sigh and continued in a more authoritative tone: "You have learned from
Count Trescorre my motive in summoning you to Pianura. My son's health causes me the liveliest
concern, my own is subject to such seizures as you have just witnessed. I cannot think that,
in this age of infidelity and disorder, God can design to deprive a Christian state of a line
of sovereigns uniformly zealous in the defence of truth; but the purposes of Heaven are inscrutable,
as the recent suppression of the Society of Jesus has most strangely proved; and should our
dynasty be extinguished I am consoled by the thought that the rule will pass to one of our
house. Of this I shall have more to say to you in future. Meanwhile your first business is
to acquaint yourself with your new surroundings. The Duchess holds a circle this evening, where
you will meet the court; but I must advise you that the persons her Highness favours with her
intimacy are not those best qualified to guide and instruct a young man in your position. These
you will meet at the house of the Countess Belverde, one of the Duchess's ladies, a woman of
sound judgment and scrupulous piety, who gathers about her all our most learned and saintly
ecclesiastics. Count Trescorre will instruct you in all that becomes your position at court,
and my director, Father Ignazio, will aid you in the selection of a confessor. As to the Bishop,
a most worthy and conversable prelate, to whom I would have you show all due regard, his zeal
in spiritual matters is not as great as I could wish, and in private talk he indulges in a
laxity of opinion against which I cannot too emphatically warn you. Happily, however, Pianura
offers other opportunities of edification. Father Ignazio is a man of wide learning and inflexible
doctrine, and in several of our monasteries, notably that of the Barnabites, you will find
examples of sanctity and wisdom such as a young man may well devoutly consider. Our convents
also are distinguished for the severity of their rule and the spiritual privileges accorded
them. The Carmelites have every reason to hope for the beatification of their aged Prioress,
and among the nuns of the Perpetual Adoration is one who has recently received the ineffable
grace of the vulnus divinum. In the conversation of these saintly nuns, and of the holy Abbot
of the Barnabites, you will find the surest safeguard against those errors and temptations
that beset your age." He leaned back with a gesture of dismissal; but added, reddening slightly,
as Odo prepared to withdraw: "You will oblige me, cousin, when you meet my physician, Count
Heiligenstern, by not touching on the matter of the restorative you have seen me take."

Odo left his cousin's presence with a feeling of deep discouragement. To a spirit aware of
the new influences abroad, and fresh from contact with evils rooted in the very foundations
of the existing system, there was a peculiar irony in being advised to seek guidance and instruction
in the society of ecstatic nuns and cloistered theologians. The Duke, with his sickly soul
agrope in a maze of Neoplatonism and probabilism, while his people groaned under unjust taxes,
while knowledge and intellectual liberty languished in a kind of moral pest-house, seemed to
Odo like a ruler who, in time of famine, should keep the royal granaries locked and spend his
days praying for the succour that his own hand might have dispensed.

In the tapestry room one of his Highness's gentlemen waited to reconduct Odo. Their way lay
through the portrait gallery of which he had previously caught a glimpse, and here he begged
his guide to leave him. He felt a sudden desire to meet his unknown ancestors face to face,
and to trace the tendencies which, from the grim Bracciaforte and the stately sceptical humanist
of Leo's age, had mysteriously forced the race into its ever-narrowing mould. The dusky canvases,
hung high in tarnished escutcheoned frames, presented a continuous chronicle of the line, from
Bracciaforte himself, with his predatory profile outlined by some early Tuscan hand against
the turrets of his impregnable fortress. Odo lingered long on this image, but it was not till
he stood beneath Piero della Francesca's portrait of the first Duke that he felt the thrill
of kindred instincts. In this grave face, with its sensuous mouth and melancholy speculative
eyes, he recognised the mingled strain of impressionability and unrest that had reached such
diverse issues in his cousin and himself. The great Duke of the "Golden Age," in his Titianesque
brocade, the statuette of a naked faun at his elbow, and a faun-like smile on his own ruddy
lips, represented another aspect of the ancestral spirit: the rounded temperament of an age
of Cyrenaicism, in which every moment was a ripe fruit sunned on all sides. A little farther
on, the shadow of the Council of Trent began to fall on the ducal faces, as the uniform blackness
of the Spanish habit replaced the sumptuous colours of the Renaissance. Here was the persecuting
Bishop, Paul IV.'s ally against the Spaniards, painted by Caravaggio in hauberk and mailed
gloves, with his motto--Etiam cum gladio--surmounting the episcopal chair; there the Duke who,
after a life of hard warfare and stern piety, had resigned his office to his son and died in
the "angelica vestis" of the tertiary order; and the "beatified" Duchess who had sold her jewels
to buy corn for the poor during the famine of 1670, and had worn a hair-shirt under a corset
that seemed stiff enough to serve all the purposes of bodily mortification. So the file descended,
the colours fading, the shadows deepening, till it reached a baby porporato of the last century,
who had donned the cardinal's habit at four, and stood rigid and a little pale in his red robes
and lace, with a crucifix and a skull on the table to which the top of his berretta hardly reached.

It seemed to Odo as he gazed on the long line of faces as though their owners had entered one
by one into a narrowing defile, where the sun rose later and set earlier on each successive
traveller; and in every countenance, from that of the first Duke to that of his own peruked
and cuirassed grandfather, he discerned the same symptom of decadency: that duality of will
which, in a delicately-tempered race, is the fatal fruit of an undisturbed pre-eminence. They
had ruled too long and enjoyed too much; and the poor creature he had just left to his dismal
scruples and forebodings seemed the mere empty husk of long-exhausted passions.

2.11.

The Duchess was lodged in the Borromini wing of the palace, and thither Odo was conducted that
evening.

To eyes accustomed to such ceremonial there was no great novelty in the troop of powdered servants,
the major-domo in his short cloak and chain, and the florid splendour of the long suite of
rooms, decorated in a style that already appeared over-charged to the more fastidious taste
of the day. Odo's curiosity centred chiefly in the persons peopling this scene, whose conflicting
interests and passions formed, as it were, the framework of the social structure of Pianura,
so that there was not a labourer in the mulberry-orchards or a weaver in the silk-looms but
depended for his crust of black bread and the leaking roof over his head on the private whim
of some member of that brilliant company.

The Duchess, who soon entered, received Odo with the flighty good-nature of a roving mind;
but as her deep-blue gaze met his her colour rose, her eyes lingered on his face, and she invited
him to a seat at her side. Maria Clementina was of Austrian descent, and something in her free
and noble port and the smiling arrogance of her manner recalled the aspect of her distant kinswoman,
the young Queen of France. She plied Odo with a hundred questions, interrupting his answers
with a playful abruptness, and to all appearances more engaged by his person than his discourse.

"Have you seen my son?" she asked. "I remember you a little boy scarce bigger than Ferrante,
whom your mother brought to kiss my hand in the very year of my marriage. Yes--and you pinched
my toy spaniel, sir, and I was so angry with you that I got up and turned my back on the company--do
you remember? But how should you, being such a child at the time? Ah, cousin how old you make
me feel! I would to God my son looked as you did then; but the Duke is killing him with his
nostrums. The child was healthy enough when he was born; but what with novenas and touching
of relics and animal magnetism and electrical treatment, there's not a bone in his little body
but the saints and the surgeons are fighting over its possession. Have you read 'Emile,' cousin,
by the new French author--I forget his name? Well, I would have the child brought up like 'Emile,'
allowed to run wild in the country and grow up sturdy and hard as a little peasant. But what
heresies am I talking! The book is on the Index, I believe, and if my director knew I had it
in my library I should be set up in the stocks in the market-place and all my court-gowns burnt
at the Church door as a warning against the danger of importing the new fashions from France!--I
hope you hunt, cousin?" she cried suddenly. "'Tis my chief diversion and one I would have my
friends enjoy with me. His Highness has lately seen fit to cut down my stables, so that I have
scarce forty saddle-horses to my name, and the greater part but sorry nags at that; yet I can
still find a mount for any friend that will ride with me and I hope to see you among the number
if the Duke can spare you now and then from mass and benediction. His Highness complains that
I am always surrounded by the same company; but is it my fault if there are not twenty persons
at court that can survive a day in the saddle and a night at cards? Have you seen the Belverde,
my mistress of the robes? She follows the hunt in a litter, cousin, and tells her beads at
the death! I hope you like cards too, cousin, for I would have all my weaknesses shared by
my friends, that they may be the less disposed to criticise them."

The impression produced on the Duchess by the cavaliere Valsecca was closely observed by several
members of the group surrounding her Highness. One of these was Count Trescorre, who moved
among the courtiers with an air of ease that seemed to establish without proclaiming the tie
between himself and the Duchess. When Maria Clementina sat down at play, Trescorre joined Odo
and with his usual friendliness pointed out the most conspicuous figures in the circle. The
Duchess's society, as the Duke had implied, was composed of the livelier members of the court,
chief among whom was the same Don Serafino who had figured so vividly in the reminiscences
of Mirandolina and Cantapresto. This gentleman, a notorious loose-liver and gamester, with
some remains of good looks and a gay boisterous manner, played the leader of revels to her
Highness's following; and at his heels came the flock of pretty women and dashing spendthrifts
who compose the train of a young and pleasure-loving princess. On such occasions as the present,
however, all the members of the court were obliged to pay their duty to her Highness; and conspicuous
among these less frequent visitors was the Duke's director, the suave and handsome Dominican
whom Odo had seen leaving his Highness's closet that afternoon. This ecclesiastic was engaged
in conversation with the Prime Minister, Count Pievepelago, a small feeble mannikin covered
with gold lace and orders. The deference with which the latter followed the Dominican's discourse
excited Odo's attention; but it was soon diverted by the approach of a lady who joined herself
to the group with an air of discreet familiarity. Though no longer young, she was still slender
and graceful, and her languid eye and vapourish manner seemed to Odo to veil an uncommon alertness
of perception. The rich sobriety of her dress, the jewelled rosary about her wrist, and most
of all, perhaps, the murderous sweetness of the smile with which the Duchess addressed her,
told him that here was the Countess Belverde; an inference which Trescorre confirmed.

"The Countess," said he, "or I should rather say the Marchioness of Boscofolto, since the Duke
has just bestowed on her the fief of that name, is impatient to make your acquaintance; and
since you doubtless remember the saying of the Marquis de Montesquieu, that to know a ruler
one must know his confessor and his mistress, you will perhaps be glad to seize both opportunities
in one."

The Countess greeted Odo with a flattering deference and at once drew him into conversation
with Pievepelago and the Dominican.

"We are discussing," said she, "the details of Prince Ferrante's approaching visit to the shrine
of our Lady of the Mountain. This shrine lies about half an hour's ride beyond my villa of
Boscofolto, where I hope to have the honour of receiving their Highnesses on their return from
the pilgrimage. The Madonna del Monte, as you doubtless know, has often preserved the ducal
house in seasons of peril, notably during the great plague of 1630 and during the famine in
the Duchess Polixena's time, when her Highness, of blessed memory, met our Lady in the streets
distributing bread, in the dress of a peasant-woman from the hills, but with a necklace made
of blood-drops instead of garnets. Father Ignazio has lately counselled the little prince's
visiting in state the protectress of his line, and his Highness's physician, Count Heiligenstern,
does not disapprove the plan. In fact," she added, "I understand that he thinks all special
acts of piety beneficial, as symbolising the inward act by which the soul incessantly strives
to reunite itself to the One."

The Dominican glanced at Odo with a smile. "The Count's dialectics," said he, "might be dangerous
were they a little clearer; but we must hope he distinguishes more accurately between his drugs
than his dogmas."

"But I am told," the Prime Minister here interposed in a creaking rusty voice, "that her Highness
is set against the pilgrimage and will put every obstacle in the way of its being performed."

The Countess sighed and cast down her eyes, the Dominican remained silent, and Trescorre said
quietly to Odo, "Her Highness would be pleased to have you join her in a game at basset." As
they crossed the room he added in a low tone: "The Duchess, in spite of her remarkable strength
of character, is still of an age to be readily open to new influences. I observed she was much
taken by your conversation, and you would be doing her a service by engaging her not to oppose
this pilgrimage to Boscofolto. We have Heiligenstern's word that it cannot harm the prince,
it will produce a good impression on the people, and it is of vital importance to her Highness
not to side against the Duke in such matters." And he withdrew with a smile as Odo approached
the card-table.

Odo left the Duchess's circle with an increased desire to penetrate more deeply into the organisation
of the little world about him, to trace the operation of its various parts, and to put his
hand on the mainspring about which they revolved; and he wondered whether Gamba, whose connection
with the ducal library must give him some insight into the affairs of the court, might not
prove as instructive a guide through this labyrinth as through the mazes of the ducal garden.

The Duke's library filled a series of rooms designed in the classical style of the cinque-cento.
On the very threshold Odo was conscious of leaving behind the trivial activities of the palace,
with the fantastic architecture which seemed their natural setting. Here all was based on a
noble permanence of taste, a convergence of accumulated effort toward a chosen end; and the
door was fittingly surmounted by Seneca's definition of the wise man's state: "Omnia illi secula
ut deo serviunt."

Odo would gladly have lingered among the books which filled the rooms with an incense-like
aroma of old leather. His imagination caressed in passing the yellowish vellum backs, the worn
tooling of Aldine folios, the heavy silver clasps of ancient chronicles and psalters; but his
first object was to find Gamba and renew the conversation of the previous day. In this he was
disappointed. The only occupant of the library was the hunchback's friend and protector, the
abate Crescenti, a tall white-haired priest with the roseate gravity and benevolent air of
a donator in some Flemish triptych. The abate, courteously welcoming Odo, explained that he
had despatched his assistant to the Benedictine monastery to copy certain ancient records of
transactions between that order and the Lords of Valsecca, and added that Gamba, on his return,
should at once be apprised of the cavaliere's wish to see him.

The abate himself had been engaged, when his visitor entered, in collating manuscripts, but
on Odo's begging him to return to his work, he said with a smile: "I do not suffer from an
excess of interruptions, for the library is the least visited portion of the palace, and I
am glad to welcome any who are disposed to inspect its treasures. I know not, cavaliere," he
added, "if the report of my humble labours has ever reached you;" and on Odo's affirmative
gesture he went on, with the eagerness of a shy man who gathers assurance from the intelligence
of his listener: "Such researches into the rude and uncivilised past seem to me as essential
to the comprehension of the present as the mastering of the major premiss to the understanding
of a syllogism; and to those who reproach me for wasting my life over the chronicles of barbarian
invasions and the records of monkish litigations, instead of contemplating the illustrious
deeds of Greek sages and Roman heroes, I confidently reply that it is more useful to a man
to know his own father's character than that of a remote ancestor. Even in this quiet retreat,"
he went on, "I hear much talk of abuses and of the need for reform; and I often think that
if they who rail so loudly against existing institutions would take the trouble to trace them
to their source, and would, for instance, compare this state as it is today with its condition
five hundred or a thousand years ago, instead of measuring it by the standard of some imaginary
Platonic republic, they would find, if not less subject for complaint, yet fuller means of
understanding and remedying the abuses they discover."

This view of history was one so new in the abate Crescenti's day that it surprised Odo with
the revelation of unsuspected possibilities. How was it that among the philosophers whose works
he had studied, none had thought of tracing in the social and political tendencies of the race
the germ of wrongs so confidently ascribed to the cunning of priests and the rapacity of princes?
Odo listened with growing interest while Crescenti, encouraged by his questions, pointed out
how the abuses of feudalism had arisen from the small land-owner's need of protection against
the northern invader, as the concentration of royal prerogative had been the outcome of the
king's intervention between his great vassals and the communes. The discouragement which had
obscured Odo's outlook since his visit to Pontesordo was cleared away by the discovery that
in a sympathetic study of the past might lie the secret of dealing with present evils. His
imagination, taking the intervening obstacles at a bound, arrived at once at the general axiom
to which such inductions pointed; and if he afterward learned that human development follows
no such direct line of advance, but must painfully stumble across the wastes of error, prejudice
and ignorance, while the theoriser traverses the same distance with a stroke of his speculative
pinions; yet the influence of these teachings tempered his judgments with charity and dignified
his very failures by a tragic sense of their inevitableness.

Crescenti suggested that Gamba should wait on Odo that evening; but the latter, being uncertain
how far he might dispose of his time, enquired where the hunchback lodged, with a view of sending
for him at a convenient moment. Having dined at the Duchess's table, and soon wearying of the
vapid company of her associates, he yielded to the desire for contrast that so often guided
his course, and set out toward sunset in search of Gamba's lodging.

It was his first opportunity of inspecting the town at leisure, and for a while he let his
curiosity lead him as it would. The streets near the palace were full of noble residences,
recording, in their sculptured doorways, in the wrought-iron work of torch-holders and window-grilles,
and in every architectural detail, the gradual change of taste that had transformed the machicolations
of the mediaeval fighter into the open cortiles and airy balconies of his descendant. Here
and there, amid these inveterate records of dominion, rose the monuments of a mightier and
more ancient power. Of these churches and monasteries the greater number, dating only from
the ascendancy of the Valseccas, showed an ordered and sumptuous architecture; but one or two
buildings surviving from the period of the free city stood out among them with the austerity
of desert saints in a throng of court ecclesiastics. The columns of the Cathedral porch were
still supported on featureless porphyry lions worn smooth by generations of loungers; and above
the octagonal baptistery ran a fantastic basrelief wherein the spirals of the vine framed an
allegory of men and monsters symbolising, in their mysterious conflicts, the ever-recurring
Manicheism of the middle ages. Fresh from his talk with Crescenti, Odo lingered curiously on
these sculptures, which but the day before he might have passed by as the efforts of ignorant
workmen, but which now seemed full of the significance that belongs to any incomplete expression
of human thought or feeling. Of their relation to the growth of art he had as yet no clear
notion; but as evidence of sensations that his forefathers had struggled to record, they touched
him like the inarticulate stammerings in which childhood strives to convey its meaning.

He found Gamba's lodging on the upper floor of a decayed palace in one of the by-lanes near
the Cathedral. The pointed arcades of this ancient building enclosed the remains of floriated
mouldings, and the walls of the court showed traces of fresco-painting; but clothes-lines now
hung between the arches, and about the well-head in the centre of the court sat a group of
tattered women with half-naked children playing in the dirt at their feet. One of these women
directed Odo to the staircase which ascended between damp stone walls to Gamba's door. This
was opened by the hunchback himself, who, with an astonished exclamation, admitted his visitor
to a scantily furnished room littered with books and papers. A child sprawled on the floor,
and a young woman, who had been sewing in the fading light of the attic window, snatched him
up as Odo entered. Her back being turned to the light, he caught only a slender youthful outline;
but something in the turn of the head, the shrinking curve of the shoulders, carried him back
to the little barefoot figure cowering in a corner of the kitchen at Pontesordo, while the
farm-yard rang with Filomena's call--"Where are you then, child of iniquity?"

"Momola--don't you know me?" he exclaimed.

She hung back trembling, as though the sound of his voice roused an echo of fear; but Gamba,
reddening slightly, took her hand and led her forward.

"It is, indeed," said he, "your excellency's old playmate, the Momola of Pontesordo, who consents
to share my poverty and who makes me forget it by the tenderness of her devotion."

But Momola, at this, found voice. "Oh, sir," she cried, "it is he who took me in when I was
half-dead and starving, who many a time went hungry to feed me, and who cares for the child
as if it were his own!"

As she stood there, in her half-wild hollowed-eyed beauty, which seemed a sickly efflorescence
of the marshes, pressing to her breast another "child of iniquity" as pale and elfish as her
former self, she seemed to Odo the embodiment of ancient wrongs, risen from the wasted soil
to haunt the dreams of its oppressors.

Gamba shrugged his shoulders. "Why," said he, "a child of my own is a luxury I am never likely
to possess as long as I have wit to remember the fundamental axiom of philosophy: entia non
sunt multiplicanda praeter necessitatum; so it is natural enough fate should single me out
to repair the negligence of those who have failed to observe that admirable principle. And
now," he added, turning gently to Momola, "it is time to put the boy to bed."

When the door had closed on her Odo turned to Gamba. "I could learn nothing at Pontesordo,"
he said. "They seemed unwilling to speak of her. What is her story and where did you first
know her?"

Gamba's face darkened. "You will remember, cavaliere," he said, "that some time after your
departure from Pianura I passed into the service of the Marquess of Cerveno, then a youth of
about twenty, who combined with graceful manners and a fair exterior a nature so corrupt and
cowardly that he seemed like some such noble edifice as this, designed to house great hopes
and high ambitions, but fallen to base uses and become the shelter of thieves and prostitutes.
Prince Ferrante being sickly from his birth, the Marquess was always looked on as the Duke's
successor, and to Trescorre, who even then, as Master of the Horse, cherished the ambitions
he has since realised, no prospect could have been more distasteful. My noble brother, to do
him justice, has always hated the Jesuits, who, as you doubtless know, were all-powerful here
before the recent suppression of the Order. The Marquess of Cerveno was as completely under
their control as the Duke is under that of the Dominicans, and Trescorre knew that with the
Marquess's accession his own rule must end. He did his best to gain an influence over his future
ruler, but failing in this resolved to ruin him.

"Cerveno, like all your house, was passionately addicted to the chase, and spent much time
hunting in the forest of Pontesordo. One day the stag was brought to bay in the farm-yard of
the old manor, and there Cerveno saw Momola, then a girl of sixteen, of a singular wild beauty
which sickness and trouble have since effaced. The young Marquess was instantly taken; and
though hitherto indifferent to women, yielded so completely to his infatuation that Trescorre,
ever on the alert, saw in it an unexpected means to his end. He instantly married Momola to
Giannozzo, whom she feared and hated; he schooled Giannozzo in the part of the jealous and
vindictive husband, and by the liberal use of money contrived that Momola, while suffered to
encourage the Marquess's addresses, should be kept so close that Cerveno could not see her
save by coming to Pontesordo. This was the first step in the plan; the next was to arrange
that Momola should lure her lover to the hunting-lodge on the edge of the chase. This lodge,
as your excellency may remember, lies level with the marsh, and so open to noxious exhalations
that a night's sojourn there may be fatal. The infernal scheme was carried out with the connivance
of the scoundrels at the farm, who had no scruples about selling the girl for a few ducats;
and as to Momola, can you wonder that her loathing of Giannozzo and of her wretched life at
Pontesordo threw her defenceless into Trescorre's toils? All was cunningly planned to exasperate
Cerveno's passion and Momola's longing to escape; and at length, pressed by his entreaties
and innocently carrying out the designs of his foe, the poor girl promised to meet him after
night-fall at the hunting-lodge. The secrecy of the adventure, and the peril to which it exposed
him (for Trescorre had taken care to paint Giannozzo and his father in the darkest colours)
were fuel to Cerveno's passion, and he went night after night to Pontesordo. The time was August,
when the marsh breathes death, and the Duke, apprised of his favourite's imprudence, forbade
his returning to the chase.

"Nothing could better have served Trescorre; for opposition spurred the Marquess's languid
temper, and he had now the incredible folly to take up his residence in the lodge. Within three
weeks the fever held him. He was at once taken to Pianura, and on recovering from his seizure
was sent to take the mountain air at the baths of Lucca. But the poison was in his blood. He
never regained more than a semblance of health, and his madness having run its course, his
passion for Momola turned to hate of the poor girl to whom he ascribed his destruction. Giannozzo,
meanwhile, terrified by the report that the Duke had winded the intrigue, and fearing to be
charged with connivance, thought to prove his innocence by casting off his wife and disowning
her child.

"What part I played in this grim business I leave your excellency to conceive. As the Marquess's
creature I was forced to assist at the spectacle without power to stay its consequences; but
when the child was born I carried the news to my master and begged him to come to the mother's
aid. For answer, he had me beaten by his lacqueys and flung out of his house. I stomached the
beating and addressed myself to Trescorre. My noble brother, whose insight is seldom at fault,
saw that I knew enough to imperil him. The Marquess was dying and his enemy could afford to
be generous. He gave me a little money and the following year obtained from the Duke my appointment
as assistant librarian. In this way I was able to give Momola a home, and to save her child
from the Innocenti. She and I, cavaliere, are the misshapen offspring of that cruel foster-parent,
who rears more than half the malefactors in the state; but please heaven the boy shall have
a better start in life, and perhaps grow up to destroy some of the evils on which that cursed
charity thrives."

This narrative, and the sight of Momola and her child, followed so strangely on the spectacle
of sordid misery he had witnessed at Pontesordo, that an inarticulate pity held Odo by the
throat. Gamba's anger against the people at the farm seemed as senseless as their own cruelty
to their animals. What were they all--Momola, her child, and her persecutors--but a sickly
growth of the decaying social order? He felt an almost physical longing for fresh air, light,
the rush of a purifying wind through the atmosphere of moral darkness that surrounded him.

2.12.

To relieve the tension of his thoughts he set forth to Gamba the purpose of his visit.

"I am," said he, "much like a stranger at a masked ball, where all the masks are acquainted
with each other's disguises and concerted to mystify the visitor. Among the persons I have
met at court several have shown themselves ready to guide me through this labyrinth; but, till
they themselves unmask and declare their true characters, I am doubtful whither they may lead
me; nor do I know of any so well fitted as yourself to give me a clue to my surroundings. As
for my own disguise," he added with a smile, "I believe I removed it sufficiently on our first
meeting to leave you no doubt as to the use to which your information will be put."

Gamba, who seemed touched by this appeal, nevertheless hesitated before replying. At length
he said: "I have the fullest trust in your excellency's honour; but I must remind you that
during your stay here you will be under the closest observation and that any opinions you express
will at once be attributed to the persons you are known to frequent. I would not," he continued
hastily, "say this for myself alone, but I have two mouths to feed and my views are already
under suspicion."

Reassured by Odo's protestations, or rather, perhaps, by the more convincing warrant of his
look and manner, Gamba proceeded to give him a detailed description of the little world in
which chance had placed them.

"If you have seen the Duke," said he, "I need not tell you that it is not he who governs the
duchy. We are ruled at present by a triumvirate consisting of the Belverde, the Dominican and
Trescorre. Pievepelago, the Prime Minister, is a dummy put in place by the Jesuits and kept
there by the rivalries of the other three; but he is in his dotage and the courtiers are already
laying wagers as to his successor. Many think Father Ignazio will replace him, but I stake
my faith on Trescorre. The Duke dislikes him, but he is popular with the middle class, who,
since they have shaken off the yoke of the Jesuits, would not willingly see an ecclesiastic
at the head of the state. The duchess's influence is also against the Dominican, for her Highness,
being, as you know, connected with the Austrian court, is by tradition unfavourable to the
Church party. The Duchess's preferences would weigh little with the Duke were it not that she
is sole heiress to the old Duke of Monte Alloro, and that any attempt to bring that principality
under the control of the Holy See might provoke the interference of Austria.

"In so ticklish a situation I see none but Trescorre to maintain the political balance. He
has been adroit enough to make himself necessary to the Duchess without alienating the Duke;
he has introduced one or two trifling reforms that have given him a name for liberality in
spite of the heavy taxes with which he has loaded the peasantry; and has in short so played
his cards as to profit by the foibles of both parties. Her Highness," he continued, in reply
to a question of Odo's, "was much taken by him when she first came to Pianura; and before her
feeling had cooled he had contrived to make himself indispensable to her. The Duchess is always
in debt; and Trescorre, as Comptroller of Finance, holds her by her besetting weakness. Before
his appointment her extravagance was the scandal of the town. She borrowed from her ladies,
her pages, her very lacqueys; when she went on a visit to her uncle of Monte Alloro she pocketed
the money he bestowed on her servants; nay, she was even accused of robbing the Marchioness
of Pievepelago, who, having worn one evening a diamond necklace which excited her Highness's
admiration, was waylaid on the way home and the jewels torn from her neck by a crowd of masked
ruffians among whom she is said to have recognised one of the ducal servants. These are doubtless
idle reports; but it is certain that Trescorre's appointment engaged him still more to the
Duchess by enabling him to protect her from such calumnies; while by increasing the land taxes
he has discharged the worst of her debts and thus made himself popular with the tradesmen she
had ruined. Your excellency must excuse my attempting to paint the private character of her
Highness. Such facts as I have reported are of public notoriety, but to exceed them would be
an unwarranted presumption. I know she has the name of being affable to her dependents, capable
of a fitful generosity, and easily moved by distress; and it is certain that her domestic situation
has been one to excite pity and disarm criticism.

"With regard to his Highness, it is difficult either to detect his motives or to divine his
preferences. His youth was spent in pious practices; and a curious reason is given for the
origin of this habit. He was educated, as your excellency is doubtless aware, by a French philosopher
of the school of Hobbes; and it is said that in the interval of his tasks the poor Duke, bewildered
by his governor's distinctions between conception and cognition, and the object and the sentient,
used to spend his time praying the saints to assist him in his atheistical studies; indeed
a satire of the day ascribes him as making a novena to the Virgin to obtain a clearer understanding
of the universality of matter. Others with more likelihood aver that he frequented the churches
to escape from the tyranny of his pedagogue; and it is certain that from one cause or another
his education threw him into the opposite extreme of a superstitious and mechanical piety.
His marriage, his differences with the Duchess, and the evil influence of Cerveno, exposed
him to new temptations, and for a time he led a life which seemed to justify the worst charges
of the enemies of materialism. Recent events have flung him back on the exaggerated devotion
of his youth, and now, when his health permits, he spends his time serving mass, singing in
the choir at benediction and making pilgrimages to the relics of the saints in the different
churches of the duchy.

"A few years since, at the instigation of his confessor, he destroyed every picture in the
ducal gallery that contained any naked figure or represented any subject offensive to religion.
Among them was Titian's famous portrait of Duke Ascanio's mistress, known as the Goldsmith's
Daughter, and a Venus by the Venetian painter Giorgione, so highly esteemed in its day that
Pope Leo X. is said to have offered in exchange for it the gift of a papal benefice, and a
Cardinal's hat for Duke Guidobaldo's younger son. His Highness, moreover, impedes the administration
of justice by resisting all attempts to restrict the Church's right of sanctuary, and upholds
the decree forbidding his subjects to study at the University of Pavia, where, as you know,
the natural sciences are professed by the ablest scholars of Italy. He allows no public duties
to interfere with his private devotions, and whatever the urgency of affairs, gives no audience
to his ministers on holydays; and a Cardinal a latere recently passing through the duchy on
his return to Rome was not received at the Duke's table because he chanced to arrive on a Friday.

"His Highness's fears for Prince Ferrante's health have drawn a swarm of quacks to Pianura,
and the influence of the Church is sometimes counteracted by that of the physicians with whom
the Duke surrounds himself. The latest of these, the famous Count Heiligenstern, who is said
to have performed some remarkable cures by means of the electrical fluid and of animal magnetism,
has gained such an ascendancy over the Duke that some suspect him of being an agent of the
Austrian court, while others declare that he is a Jesuit en robe courte. But just at present
the people scent a Jesuit under every habit, and it is even rumoured that the Belverde is secretly
affiliated to a female branch of the Society. With such a sovereign and such ministers, your
excellency need not be told how the state is governed. Trescorre, heaven save the mark! represents
the liberal party; but his liberalism is like the generosity of the unarmed traveller who throws
his purse to a foot-pad; and Father Ignazio is at hand to see that the people are not bettered
at the expense of the Church.

"As to the Duke, having no settled policy, and being governed only through his fears, he leans
first to one influence and then to another; but since the suppression of the Jesuits nothing
can induce him to attack any ecclesiastical privileges. The diocese of Pianura holds a fief
known as the Caccia del Vescovo, long noted as the most lawless district of the duchy. Before
the death of the late Pope, Trescorre had prevailed on the Duke to annex it to the principality;
but the dreadful fate of Ganganelli has checked bolder sovereigns than his Highness in their
attempts on the immunities of the Church, and one of the fairest regions of our unhappy state
remains a barren waste, the lair of outlaws and assassins, and a menace to the surrounding
country. His Highness is not incapable of generous impulses and his occasional acts of humanity
might endear him to his people were it not that they despise him for being the creature of
his favourites. Thus, the gift of Boscofolto to the Belverde has excited the bitterest discontent;
for the Countess is notorious for her cruel exactions, and it is certain that at her death
this rich fief will revert to the Church. And now," Gamba ended with a smile, "I have made
known to your excellency the chief characters in the masque, as rumour depicts them to the
vulgar. As to the court, like the government, it is divided into two parties: the Duke's, headed
by the Belverde, and containing the staider and more conservative members of the Church and
nobility; and the Duchess's, composed of every fribble and flatterer, every gamester and rake,
every intriguing woman and vulgar parvenu that can worm a way into her favour. In such an atmosphere
you may fancy how knowledge thrives. The Duke's library consists of a few volumes of theological
casuistry, and her Highness never opens a book unless it be to scandalise her husband by reading
some prohibited pamphlet from France. The University, since the fall of the Jesuits, has been
in charge of the Barnabite order, and, for aught I know, the Ptolemaic system is still taught
there, together with the dialectic of Aristotle. As to science, it is anathema; and the press
being subject to the restrictions of the Holy Office, and the University closed to modern thought,
but few scholars are to be found in the duchy, save those who occupy themselves with belles-lettres,
or, like the abate Crescenti, are engaged in historical research. Pianura, even in the late
Duke's day, had its circle of lettered noblemen who patronised the arts and founded the local
Arcadia; but such pursuits are out of fashion, the Arcadia languishes, and the Bishop of Pianura
is the only dignitary that still plays the Mecaenas. His lordship, whose theological laxity
and coolness toward the Holy Office have put him out of favour with the Duke, has, I am told,
a fine cabinet of paintings (some of them, it is rumoured, the very pictures that his Highness
ordered to be burnt) and the episcopal palace swarms with rhyming abatini, fashionable playwrights
and musicians, and the travelling archeologists who hawk their antiques about from one court
to another. Here you may assist at interminable disputes as to the relative merits of Tasso
and Ariosto, or listen to a learned dissertation on the verse engraved on a carnelian stone;
but as to the questions now agitating the world, they are held of less account than a problem
in counterpoint or the construction of a doubtful line in Ovid. As long as Truth goes naked
she can scarce hope to be received in good company; and her appearance would probably cause
as much confusion among the Bishop's literati as in the councils of the Holy Office."

The old analogy likening the human mind to an imperfect mirror, which modifies the images it
reflects, occurred more than once to Odo during the hunchback's lively delineation. It was
impossible not to remember that the speaker owed his education to the charity of the order
he denounced; and this fact suggested to Odo that the other lights and shadows in the picture
might be disposed with more art than accuracy. Still, they doubtless embodied a negative truth,
and Odo thought it probable that such intellectual diversion as he could hope for must be sought
in the Bishop's circle.

It was two days later that he first beheld that prelate, heading the ducal pilgrimage to the
shrine of the mountain Virgin. The day had opened with a confused flight of chimes from every
bell-tower in Pianura, as though a migratory flock of notes had settled for a moment on the
roofs and steeples of the city. The ducal party set forth early from the palace, but the streets
were already spanned with arches and garlands of foliage, tapestries and religious paintings
decked the facades of the wealthier houses, and at every street-shrine a cluster of candle-flames
hovered like yellow butterflies above the freshly-gathered flowers. The windows were packed
with spectators, and the crowds who intended to accompany the pilgrimage were already gathering,
with their painted and gilt candles, from every corner of the town. Each church and monastery
door poured forth its priests or friars to swell the line, and the various lay confraternities,
issuing in their distinctive dress from their "lodges" or assembly-rooms, formed a link between
the secular and religious divisions of the procession. The market-place was strewn with sand
and sweet herbs; and here, on the doorsteps of the Cathedral, between the featureless porphyry
lions, the Bishop waited with his red-robed chapter, and the deacons carrying the painted banners
of the diocese. Seen thus, with the cloth-of-gold dalmatic above his pontifical tunic, the
mitre surmounting his clear-cut impassive face, and the crozier held aloft in his jewelled
gloves, he might have stood for a chryselephantine divinity in the porch of some pagan temple.

Odo, riding beside the Duke's litter, had leisure to note not only the diverse features of
the procession but their varying effect on the spectators. It was plain that, as Trescorre
had said, the pilgrimage was popular with the people. That imaginative sensuousness which has
perpetually renewed the Latin Church by giving form and colour to her dogmatic abstractions,
by transforming every successive phase of her belief into something to be seen and handled,
found an irresistible outlet in a ceremony that seemed to combine with its devotional intent
a secret element of expiation. The little prince was dimly felt to be paying for the prodigality
of his fathers, to be in some way a link of suffering between the tongue-tied misery of the
fields and the insolent splendour of the court; and a vague faith in the vicarious efficacy
of his devotion drew the crowd into momentary sympathy with its rulers. Yet this was but an
underlying element in the instinctive delight of the people in the outward forms of their religion.
Odo's late experiences had wakened him to the influences acting on that obscure substratum
of human life that still seemed, to most men of his rank, of no more account than the brick
lining of their marble-coated palaces. As he watched the mounting excitement of the throng,
and pictured to himself the lives suddenly lit up by this pledge of unseen promises, he wondered
that the enemies of the Church should ascribe her predominance to any cause but the natural
needs of the heart. The people lived in unlit hovels, for there was a tax on mental as well
as on material windows; but here was a light that could pierce the narrowest crevice and scatter
the darkness with a single ray.

Odo noted with equal interest the impression produced by the various members of the court and
the Church dignitaries. The Duke's litter was coldly received, but a pitying murmur widened
about the gilt chair in which Prince Ferrante was seated at his governor's side, and the approach
of Trescorre, mounted on a fine horse and dressed with his usual sober elegance, woke a shout
that made him for a moment the central figure of the procession. The Bishop was none too warmly
welcomed; but when Crescenti appeared, white-haired and erect among the parish priests, the
crowd swayed toward him like grasses in the suction of a current; and one of the Duke's gentlemen,
seeing Odo's surprise, said with a smile: "No one does more good in Pianura than our learned
librarian."

A different and still more striking welcome awaited the Duchess, who presently appeared on
her favourite white hackney, surrounded by the members of her household. Her reluctance to
take part in the pilgrimage had been overcome by the exhilaration of showing herself to the
public, and as she rode along in her gold-embroidered habit and plumed hat she was just such
an image of radiant and indulgent sovereignty as turns enforced submission into a romantic
allegiance. Her flushing cheek and kindled eye showed the reaction of the effect she produced,
and if her subjects forgot her debts, her violences and follies, she was perhaps momentarily
transformed into the being their enthusiasm created. She was at any rate keenly alive to the
admiration she excited and eager to enhance it by those showy impulses of benevolence that
catch the public eye; as when, at the city gates, she stopped her horse to intervene in behalf
of a soldier who had been put under arrest for some slight infraction of duty, and then rode
on enveloped in the passionate shouting of the crowd.

The shrine at which the young prince was to pay his devotions stood just beyond the city, on
the summit of one of the low knolls which pass for hills in the level landscape of Pianura.
The white-columned church with its classical dome and portico had been erected as a thank-offering
after the plague of 1630, and the nave was lined with life-sized votive figures of Dukes and
Duchesses clad in the actual wigs and robes that had dressed their transient grandeur. As the
procession wound into the church, to the ringing of bells and the chanting of the choir, Odo
was struck by the spectacle of that line of witnesses, watching in glassy-eyed irony the pomp
and display to which their moldering robes and tarnished insignia seemed to fix so brief a
term. Once or twice already he had felt the shows of human power as no more than vanishing
reflections on the tide of being; and now, as he knelt near the shrine, with its central glitter
of jewels and its nimbus of wavering lights, and listened to the reiterated ancient wail:

    "Mater inviolata, ora pro nobis!
    Virgo veneranda, ora pro nobis!
    Speculum justitiae, ora pro nobis!"

it seemed to him as though the bounds of life and death were merged, and the sumptuous group
of which he formed a part already dusted over with oblivion.

2.13.

Spite of the Mountain Madonna's much-vaunted powers, the first effect of the pilgrimage was
to provoke a serious indisposition in the Duke. Exhausted by fasting and emotion, he withdrew
to his apartments and for several days denied himself to all but Heiligenstern, who was suspected
by some of suffering his patient's disorder to run its course with a view to proving the futility
of such remedies. This break in his intercourse with his kinsman left Odo free to take the
measure of his new surroundings. The company most naturally engaging him was that which surrounded
the Duchess; but he soon wearied of the trivial diversions it offered. It had ever been necessary
to him that his pleasures should touch the imagination as well as the senses; and with such
refinement of enjoyment the gallants of Pianura were unacquainted. Odo indeed perceived with
a touch of amusement that, in a society where Don Serafino set the pace, he must needs lag
behind his own lacquey. Cantapresto had, in fact, been hailed by the Bishop's nephew with a
cordiality that proclaimed them old associates in folly; and the soprano's manner seemed to
declare that, if ever he had held the candle for Don Serafino, he did not grudge the grease
that might have dropped on his cassock. He was soon prime favourite and court buffoon in the
Duchess's circle, organising pleasure-parties, composing scenarios for her Highness's private
theatre, and producing at court any comedian or juggler the report of whose ability reached
him from the market-place. Indefatigable in the contriving of such diversions, he soon virtually
passed out of Odo's service into that of her Highness: a circumstance which the young man the
less regretted as it left him freer to cultivate the acquaintance of Gamba and his friends
without exposing them to Cantapresto's espionage.

Odo had felt himself specially drawn toward the abate Crescenti; and the afternoon after their
first meeting he had repaired to the librarian's dwelling. Crescenti was the priest of an ancient
parish lying near the fortress; and his tiny house was wedged in an angle of the city walls,
like a bird's nest in the mouth of a disused canon. A long flight of steps led up to his study,
which on the farther side opened level with a vine-shaded patch of herbs and damask roses in
the projection of a ruined bastion. This interior, the home of studious peace, was as cheerful
and well-ordered as its inmate's mind; and Odo, seated under the vine pergola in the late summer
light, and tasting the abate's Val Pulicella while he turned over the warped pages of old codes
and chronicles, felt the stealing charm of a sequestered life.

He had learned from Gamba that Crescenti was a faithful parish priest as well as an assiduous
scholar, but he saw that the librarian's beneficence took that purely personal form which may
coexist with a serene acceptance of the general evils underlying particular hardships. His
charities were performed in the old unquestioning spirit of the Roman distribution of corn;
and doubtless the good man who carries his loaf of bread and his word of hope into his neighbour's
hovel reaps a more tangible return than the lonely thinker who schemes to undermine the strongholds
of injustice. Still there was a perplexing contrast between the superficiality of Crescenti's
moral judgments and the breadth and penetration of his historic conceptions. Odo was too inexperienced
to reflect that a man's sense of the urgency of improvement lies mainly in the line of his
talent: as the merchant is persuaded that the roads most in need of mending are those on which
his business makes him travel. Odo himself was already conscious of living in a many-windowed
house, with outlooks diverse enough to justify more than one view of the universe; but he had
no conception of that concentration of purpose that may make the mind's flight to its goal
as direct and unvarying as the course of a homing bird. The talk turning on Gamba, Crescenti
spoke of the help which the hunchback gave him in his work among the poor.

"His early hardships," said he, "have given him an insight into character that my happier circumstances
have denied me; and he has more than once been the means of reclaiming some wretch that I despaired
of. Unhappily, his parts and learning are beyond his station, and will not let him rest in
the performance of his duties. His mind, I often tell him, is like one of those inn parlours
hung with elaborate maps of the three Heretical Cities; whereas the only topography with which
the virtuous traveller need be acquainted is that of the Heavenly City to which all our journeyings
should tend. The soundness of his heart reassures me as to this distemper of the reason; but
others are less familiar with his good qualities and I tremble for the risks to which his rashness
may expose him."

The librarian went on to say that Gamba had a pretty poetical gift which he was suspected of
employing in the composition of anonymous satires on the court, the government and the Church.
At that period every Italian town was as full of lampoons as a marsh of mosquitoes, and it
was as difficult in the one case as the other for the sufferer to detect the specific cause
of his sting. The moment in Italy was a strange one. The tide of reform had been turned back
by the very act devised to hasten it: the suppression of the Society of Jesus. The shout of
liberation that rose over the downfall of the order had sunk to a guarded whisper. The dark
legend already forming around Ganganelli's death, the hint of that secret liquor distilled
for the order's use in a certain convent of Perugia, hung like a menace on the political horizon;
and the disbanded Society seemed to have tightened its hold on the public conscience as a dying
man's clutch closes on his victorious enemy.

So profoundly had the Jesuits impressed the world with the sense of their mysterious power
that they were felt to be like one of those animal organisms which, when torn apart, carry
on a separate existence in every fragment. Ganganelli's bull had provided against their exerting
any political influence, or controlling opinion as confessors or as public educators; but they
were known to be everywhere in Italy, either hidden in other orders, or acting as lay agents
of foreign powers, as tutors in private families, or simply as secular priests. Even the confiscation
of their wealth did not seem to diminish the popular sense of their strength. Perhaps because
that strength had never been completely explained, even by their immense temporal advantages,
it was felt to be latent in themselves, and somehow capable of withstanding every kind of external
assault. They had moreover benefited by the reaction which always follows on the breaking up
of any great organisation. Their detractors were already beginning to forget their faults and
remember their merits. The people had been taught to hate the Society as the possessor of wealth
and privileges which should have been theirs; but when the Society fell its possessions were
absorbed by the other powers, and in many cases the people suffered from abuses and maladministration
which they had not known under their Jesuit landlords. The aristocracy had always been in sympathy
with the order, and in many states the Jesuits had been banished simply as a measure of political
expediency, a sop to the restless masses. In these cases the latent power of the order was
concealed rather than diminished by the pretence of a more liberal government, and everywhere,
in one form or another, the unseen influence was felt to be on the watch for those who dared
to triumph over it too soon.

Such conditions fostered the growth of social satire. Constructive ambition was forced back
into its old disguises, and ridicule of individual weaknesses replaced the general attack on
beliefs and institutions. Satirical poems in manuscript passed from hand to hand in coffee-houses,
casinos and drawing-rooms, and every conspicuous incident in social or political life was borne
on a biting quatrain to the confines of the state. The Duke's gift of Boscofolto to the Countess
Belverde had stirred up a swarm of epigrams, and the most malignant among them, Crescenti averred,
were openly ascribed to Gamba.

"A few more imprudences," he added, "must cost him his post; and if your excellency has any
influence with him I would urge its being used to restrain him from such excesses."

Odo, on taking his leave of the librarian, ran across Gamba at the first street-corner; and
they had not proceeded a dozen yards together when the eye of the Duke's kinsman fell on a
snatch of doggerel scrawled in chalk on an adjacent wall.

    "Beware (the quatrain ran) O virtuous wife or maid,
    Our ruler's fondness for the shade,
    Lest first he woo thee to the leafy glade
    And then into the deeper wood persuade."

This crude play on the Belverde's former title and the one she had recently acquired was signed
"Carlo Gamba."

Odo glanced curiously at the hunchback, who met the look with a composed smile. "My enemies
don't do me justice," said he; "I could do better than that if I tried;" and he effaced the
words with a sweep of his shabby sleeve.

Other lampoons of the same quality were continually cropping up on the walls of Pianura, and
the ducal police were kept as busy rubbing them out as a band of weeders digging docks out
of a garden. The Duchess's debts, the Duke's devotions, the Belverde's extortions, Heiligenstern's
mummery, and the political rivalry between Trescorre and the Dominican, were sauce to the citizen's
daily bread; but there was nothing in these popular satires to suggest the hunchback's trenchant
irony.

It was in the Bishop's palace that Odo read the first lampoon in which he recognised his friend's
touch. In this society of polished dilettanti such documents were valued rather for their literary
merits than for their political significance; and the pungent lines in which the Duke's panaceas
were hit off (the Belverde figuring among them as a Lenten diet, a dinner of herbs, and a wonder-working
bone) caused a flutter of professional envy in the episcopal circle.

The Bishop received company every evening; and Odo soon found that, as Gamba had said, it was
the best company in Pianura. His lordship lived in great state in the Gothic palace adjoining
the Cathedral. The gloomy vaulted rooms of the original structure had been abandoned to the
small fry of the episcopal retinue. In the chambers around the courtyard his lordship drove
a thriving trade in wines from his vineyards, while his clients awaited his pleasure in the
armoury, where the panoplies of his fighting predecessors still rusted on the walls. Behind
this facade a later prelate had built a vast wing overlooking a garden which descended by easy
terraces to the Piana. In the high-studded apartments of this wing the Bishop held his court
and lived the life of a wealthy secular nobleman. His days were agreeably divided between hunting,
inspecting his estates, receiving the visits of antiquarians, artists and literati, and superintending
the embellishments of his gardens, then the most famous in North Italy; while his evenings
were given to the more private diversions which his age and looks still justified. In religious
ceremonies or in formal intercourse with his clergy he was the most imposing and sacerdotal
of bishops; but in private life none knew better how to disguise his cloth. He was moreover
a man of parts, and from the construction of a Latin hexameter to the growing of a Holland
bulb, had a word worth hearing on all subjects likely to engage the dilettante. A liking soon
sprang up between Odo and this versatile prelate; and in the retirement of his lordship's cabinet,
or pacing with him the garden-alleys set with ancient marbles, the young man gathered many
precepts of that philosophy of pleasure which the great churchmen of the eighteenth century
practised with such rare completeness.

The Bishop had not, indeed, given much thought to the problems which most deeply engaged his
companion. His theory of life took no account of the future and concerned itself little with
social conditions outside his own class; but he was acquainted with the classical schools of
thought, and, having once acted as the late Duke's envoy to the French court, had frequented
the Baron d'Holbach's drawing-room and familiarised himself with the views of the Encyclopaedists;
though it was clear that he valued their teachings chiefly as an argument against asceticism.

"Life," said he to Odo, as they sat one afternoon in a garden-pavilion above the river, a marble
Mercury confronting them at the end of a vista of clipped myrtle, "life, cavaliere, is a stock
on which we may graft what fruit or flower we choose. See the orange-tree in that Capo di Monte
jar: in a week or two it will be covered with red roses. Here again is a citron set with carnations;
and but yesterday my gardener sent me word that he had at last succeeded in flowering a pomegranate
with jasmine. In such cases the gardener chooses as his graft the flower which, by its colour
and fragrance, shall most agreeably contrast with the original stock; and he who orders his
life on the same principle, grafting it with pleasures that form a refreshing off-set to the
obligations of his rank and calling, may regard himself as justified by Nature, who, as you
see, smiles on such abnormal unions among her children.--Not long ago," he went on, with a
reminiscent smile, "I had here under my roof a young person who practised to perfection this
art of engrafting life with the unexpected. Though she was only a player in a strolling company--a
sweetheart of my wild nephew's, as you may guess--I have met few of her sex whose conversation
was so instructive or who so completely justified the Scriptural adage, "the sweetness of the
lips increaseth learning..." He broke off to sip his chocolate. "But why," he continued, "do
I talk thus to a young man whose path is lined with such opportunities? The secret of happiness
is to say with the great Emperor, 'Everything is fruit to me which thy seasons bring, O Nature.'"

"Such a creed, monsignore," Odo ventured to return, "is as flattering to the intelligence as
to the senses; for surely it better becomes a reasoning being to face fate as an equal than
to cower before it like a slave; but, since you have opened yourself so freely on the subject,
may I carry your argument a point farther and ask how you reconcile your conception of man's
destiny with the authorised teachings of the Church?"

The Bishop raised his head with a guarded glance.

"Cavaliere," said he, "the ancients did not admit the rabble to their sacred mysteries; nor
dare we permit the unlettered to enter the hollowed precincts of the temple of Reason."

"True," Odo acquiesced; "but if the teachings of Christianity are the best safeguard of the
people, should not those teachings at least be stripped of the grotesque excrescences with
which the superstitions of the people and--perhaps--the greed and craft of the priesthood have
smothered the simple precepts of Jesus?"

The Bishop shrugged his shoulders. "As long," said he, "as the people need the restraint of
a dogmatic religion so long must we do our utmost to maintain its outward forms. In our market-place
on feast-days there appears the strange figure of a man who carries a banner painted with an
image of Saint Paul surrounded by a mass of writhing serpents. This man calls himself a descendant
of the apostle and sells to our peasants the miraculous powder with which he killed the great
serpent at Malta. If it were not for the banner, the legend, the descent from Saint Paul, how
much efficacy do you think those powders would have? And how long do you think the precepts
of an invisible divinity would restrain the evil passions of an ignorant peasant? It is because
he is afraid of the plaster God in his parish church, and of the priest who represents that
God, that he still pays his tithes and forfeitures and keeps his hands from our throats. By
Diana," cried the Bishop, taking snuff, "I have no patience with those of my calling who go
about whining for apostolic simplicity, and would rob the churches of their ornaments and the
faithful of their ceremonies.

"For my part," he added, glancing with a smile about the delicately-stuccoed walls of the pavilion,
through the windows of which climbing roses shed their petals on the rich mosaics transferred
from a Roman bath, "for my part, when I remember that 'tis to Jesus of Nazareth I owe the good
roof over my head and the good nags in my stable; nay, the very venison and pheasants from
my preserves, with the gold plate I eat them off, and above all the leisure to enjoy as they
deserve these excellent gifts of the Creator--when I consider this, I say, I stand amazed at
those who would rob so beneficent a deity of the least of his privileges.--But why," he continued
again after a moment, as Odo remained silent, "should we vex ourselves with such questions,
when Providence has given us so fair a world to enjoy and such varied faculties with which
to apprehend its beauties? I think you have not seen the Venus Callipyge in bronze that I have
lately received from Rome?" And he rose and led the way to the house.

This conversation revealed to Odo a third conception of the religious idea. In Piedmont religion
imposed itself as a military discipline, the enforced duty of the Christian citizen to the
heavenly state; to the Duke it was a means of purchasing spiritual immunity from the consequences
of bodily weakness; to the Bishop, it replaced the panem et circenses of ancient Rome. Where,
in all this, was the share of those whom Christ had come to save? Where was Saint Francis's
devotion to his heavenly bride, the Lady Poverty? Though here and there a good parish priest
like Crescenti ministered to the temporal wants of the peasantry, it was only the free-thinker
and the atheist who, at the risk of life and fortune, laboured for their moral liberation.
Odo listened with a saddened heart, thinking, as he followed his host through the perfumed
shade of the gardens, and down the long saloon at the end of which the Venus stood, of those
who for the love of man had denied themselves such delicate emotions and gone forth cheerfully
to exile or imprisonment. These were the true lovers of the Lady Poverty, the band in which
he longed to be enrolled; yet how restrain a thrill of delight as the slender dusky goddess
detached herself against the cool marble of her niche, looking, in the sun-rippled green penumbra
of the saloon, with a sound of water falling somewhere out of sight, as though she had just
stepped dripping from the wave?

In the Duchess's company life struck another gait. Here was no waiting on subtle pleasures,
but a headlong gallop after the cruder sort. Hunting, gaming and masquerading filled her Highness's
days; and Odo had felt small inclination to keep pace with the cavalcade, but for the flying
huntress at its head. To the Duchess's "view halloo" every drop of blood in him responded;
but a vigilant image kept his bosom barred. So they rode, danced, diced together, but like
strangers who cross hands at a veglione. Once or twice he fancied the Duchess was for unmasking;
but her impulses came and went like fireflies in the dusk, and it suited his humour to remain
a looker-on.

So life piped to him during his first days at Pianura: a merry tune in the Bishop's company,
a mad one in the Duchess's; but always with the same sad undertone, like the cry of the wind
on a warm threshold.

2.14.

Trescorre too kept open house, and here Odo found a warmer welcome than he had expected. Though
Trescorre was still the Duchess's accredited lover, it was clear that the tie between them
was no longer such as to make him resent her kindness to her young kinsman. He seemed indeed
anxious to draw Odo into her Highness's circle, and surprised him by a frankness and affability
of which his demeanour at Turin had given no promise. As leader of the anti-clericals he stood
for such liberalism as dared show its head in Pianura; and he seemed disposed to invite Odo's
confidence in political matters. The latter was, however, too much the child of his race not
to hang back from such an invitation. He did not distrust Trescorre more than the other courtiers;
but it was a time when every ear was alert for the foot-fall of treachery, and the rashest
man did not care to taste first of any cup that was offered him.

These scruples Trescorre made it his business to dispel. He was the only person at court who
was willing to discuss politics, and his clear view of affairs excited Odo's admiration if
not his concurrence. Odo's was in fact one of those dual visions which instinctively see both
sides of a case and take the defence of the less popular. Gamba's principles were dear to him;
but he did not therefore believe in the personal baseness of every opponent of the cause. He
had refrained from mentioning the hunchback to his supposed brother; but the latter, in one
of their talks, brought forward Gamba's name, without reference to the relationship, but with
high praise for the young librarian's parts. This, at the moment, put Odo on his guard; but
Trescorre having one day begged him to give Gamba warning of some petty danger that threatened
him from the clerical side, it became difficult not to believe in an interest so attested;
the more so as Trescorre let it be seen that Gamba's political views were not such as to distract
from his sympathy.

"The fellow's brains," said he, "would be of infinite use to me; but perhaps he serves us best
at a distance. All I ask is that he shall not risk himself too near Father Ignazio's talons,
for he would be a pretty morsel to throw to the Holy Office, and the weak point of such a man's
position is that, however dangerous in life, he can threaten no one from the grave."

Odo reported this to Gamba, who heard with a two-edged smile. "Yes," was his comment, "he fears
me enough to want to see me safe in his fold."

Odo flushed at the implication. "And why not?" said he. "Could you not serve the cause better
by attaching yourself openly to the liberals than by lurking in the ditch to throw mud at both
parties?"

"The liberals!" sneered Gamba. "Where are they? And what have they done? It was they who drove
out the Jesuits; but to whom did the Society's lands go? To the Duke, every acre of them! And
the peasantry suffered far less under the fathers, who were good agriculturists, than under
the Duke, who is too busy with monks and astrologers to give his mind to irrigation or the
reclaiming of waste land. As to the University, who replaced the Jesuits there? Professors
from Padua or Pavia? Heaven forbid! But holy Barnabites that have scarce Latin enough to spell
out the Lives of the Saints! The Jesuits at least gave a good education to the upper classes;
but now the young noblemen are as ignorant as peasants."

Trescorre received at his house, besides the court functionaries, all the liberal faction and
the Duchess's personal friends. He kept a lavish state, but lacking the Bishop's social gifts,
was less successful in fusing the different elements of his circle. The Duke, for the first
few weeks after his kinsman's arrival, received no company; and did not even appear in the
Belverde's drawing-rooms; but Odo deemed it none the less politic to show himself there without
delay.

The new Marchioness of Boscofolto lived in one of the finest palaces of Pianura, but prodigality
was the least of her failings, and the meagreness of her hospitality was an unfailing source
of epigram to the drawing-rooms of the opposition. True, she kept open table for half the clergy
in the town (omitting, of course, those worldly ecclesiastics who frequented the episcopal
palace), but it was whispered that she had persuaded her cook to take half wages in return
for the privilege of victualling such holy men, and that the same argument enabled her to obtain
her provisions below the market price. In her outer ante-chamber the servants yawned dismally
over a cold brazier, without so much as a game of cards to divert them, and the long enfilade
of saloons leading to her drawing-room was so scantily lit that her guests could scarce recognise
each other in passing. In the room where she sat, a tall crucifix of ebony and gold stood at
her elbow and a holy-water cup encrusted with jewels hung on the wall at her side. A dozen
or more ecclesiastics were always gathered in stiff seats about the hearth; and the aspect
of the apartment, and the Marchioness's semi-monastic costume, justified the nickname of "the
sacristy," which the Duchess had bestowed on her rival's drawing-room.

