His house was called Reed (Red) Pale, and was situated on the north side of the Almonry. A
house traditionally called Caxton's was pointed out up to fifty years ago. It is described
as being of red brick. In the library of Brasenose College, Oxford, there is a placard in Caxton's
largest type inviting people to "come to Westminster in the Almonystrye at the Reed Pale."

Caxton died in 1491, and, with his wife, is buried in St. Margaret's Church. He left one daughter.

A copy of "The Royal Book," or "Book for a King," compiled for Philip of France in 1279, and
translated and printed by Caxton at Westminster in 1487, was sold this year in England for
£2,225. There are only five copies in existence, one of which was sold in 1901 for £1,550.
The other three are in public libraries. Could Caxton have looked onward for 400 years, his
astonishment and gratification at these prodigious prices would doubtless have been extreme.

The Almonry, or "Eleemosynary," as Stow calls it, was in two parts, of which the larger was
again subdivided in two portions, parallel to the two Tothill Streets. The distribution of
the Royal maundy which takes place in Westminster Abbey yearly, with much ceremony, is a reminder
of the ancient almsgiving. The address of the present Royal Almonry is 6, Craigs Court.

Henry VII.'s almshouses were in the Little Almonry, and St. Ann's Chapel (p. 23) was at the
southern end. King Henry's mother, Margaret, erected an almshouse near the chapel for poor
women, which "was afterwards turned into lodgings for the singing men of the College."

A great gatehouse formerly stood at the east end of Victoria Street, close by Dean's Yard.
It was built by Richard II., and was very massive, resembling a square tower of stone, and
it altogether lacked the architectural decoration of the other gateways near King Street to
be spoken of presently. Well might it seem gloomy, for it fulfilled the functions of a prison.
On one side was the Bishop of London's prison for "Clerks, convict," and in the other were
confined prisoners from the City or Liberties of Westminster. Many distinguished prisoners
were confined here.

Perhaps the most illustrious victim of all those who have perished on English scaffolds is
Sir Walter Raleigh. He was brought out to die in Old Palace Yard at eight in the morning of
October 29, 1618. The day chosen was Lord Mayor's Day, in the hope that the pageants of the
day would draw away the people from witnessing the death of this great man. The story of his
execution is well known. His last words have not been allowed to perish. "Now," he said, as
he mounted the scaffold, "I am going to God." Then, touching the axe, he said: "This is a sharp
medicine, but it will cure all diseases." Lady Raleigh herself waited near the scaffold in
a coach. The head was placed in a leather bag, wrapped about with Sir Walter's gown, and so
she carried it away. She preserved it in a case during the rest of her life, and her son Carew
kept it afterwards. It is believed to have been buried at last at West Horsley, in Surrey.
The body was buried in St. Margaret's, near the altar.

Here were confined, also, Goodman, Bishop of Gloucester; and Sir Jeffrey Hudson, the little
dwarf, who was first in the service of the Duchess of Buckingham, and afterwards in that of
Queen Henrietta Maria, and was twice painted by Vandyck. Hudson died in the prison. Hampden,
Sir John Eliot, and Lilly, the astrologer, were imprisoned at various times, and Titus Oates
died in the gatehouse in his sixty-third year. Richard Savage, the poet, adds another name
to the list. In 1776 the Dean and Chapter of Westminster ordered that the gatehouse should
be pulled down, but one wall, adjoining the house once inhabited by Edmund Burke, was still
standing in 1836.

Close by was Thieving Lane, through which thieves were taken to the prison without passing
by the sanctuary and claiming its immunity.

Within the High Gate was the Abbey Precinct, and with this we pass into by far the most interesting
part of Westminster--that part that may be called the nucleus, round which cluster so many
historical memories that the mere task of recording them is very great.

PART III

THE HEART OF WESTMINSTER.

As we, in imagination, pass through the ancient prison gate, at the east end of Victoria Street,
we find on the left Prince's Street, formerly called Long Ditch. His Majesty's Stationery Office
stands on the east, a large dull brick building, stuccoed in front, built round a courtyard.
Lewisham Street and Parker Street are long narrow foot-passages, running east and west, the
latter a cul-de-sac. The tablet on the wall is much worn, but seems to have borne the date
"Parker Street, 1621." This is in accordance with the lines of old flat-casemented, two-story
houses which line each side of the street.

Westminster Hospital originated in 1715 at a small house in Birdcage Walk from which outdoor
relief was administered. Five years later the hospital began to receive in-patients, and in
1724 began a new lease of usefulness in a building in Chapel Street with accommodation for
sixty in-patients. Nine years after the removal to Chapel Street the hospital was transferred
to James Street. This change of position was objected to by part of the governing body, who
seceded, and eventually established St. George's Hospital at Hyde Park Corner. In 1834 the
present building was erected. It was the first to be established by voluntary contributions
in London. It is unique in possessing an incurable ward, and in the system of nursing, which
is carried out by contract. The leads are utilized as an airing-ground for the patients.

The Guildhall or Sessions House of Middlesex is an ancient institution. Previous to 1752 the
sessions were held at the Town Court House near Westminster Hall. In 1805 the Guildhall was
erected from designs by S. P. Cockerell at the spot where the present Gothic fountain is. The
present building is on the site of the Sanctuary. A little building of heavy stonework, about
sixty feet high, once stood here; it had one door only, of solid oak, covered with iron plates,
and this led into a sombre chapel. This was St. Peter's Sanctuary, dedicated to the Holy Innocents,
and to it any hunted criminal had the right of entry. Apparently, his pursuers might besiege
him without danger of sacrilege, but at any rate he could defy them in tolerable security within
those massive walls. There do not seem to be many records of the occasions on which it was
used; we do not hear of the quick step and panting breath of the fugitive as he neared that
doorway, nor read of the sense of relief with which he shot the bolts into place before he
crept up to the roof to peep over the low parapet and see if his enemies were hard upon his
heels. Yet these things must have happened again and again. The most touching occasion recorded
in history is when the Queen-mother Elizabeth sought refuge here with her younger son Richard
and her daughters. It was not a new thing to her to have to seek protection thus. She had been
here before, and her elder boy, destined for so short a reign and so cruel a death, had been
born within the confines of the prison-like walls. On the second occasion, when the ferocious
Richard, Duke of Gloucester, sought to obtain possession of his younger nephew, he respected
the limits of sanctuary, but with his plausible tongue he persuaded the Archbishop who accompanied
him to consent to his schemes, and he silenced, if he did not assuage, the mother's fears.
So the little Richard was taken to die in the Tower with his brother, and small use had sanctuary
been to him.

The work of the demolition of this massive keep was going on in 1775, but it does not seem
to have proceeded regularly; people came and tore away fragments from the walls as they listed,
and the gloomy building vanished piecemeal.

By Acts passed in the early part of the nineteenth century, part of Long Ditch, Bridge Street,
Little George Street, and King Street were cleared away, also Broad and Little Sanctuary, Thieving
Lane, and many small courts, and on the space thus obtained public seats were placed, flower-beds
planted, and statues erected.

The statues on the quadrangular piece of ground in the centre are of Peel and Beaconsfield,
north and south; Palmerston and Derby on the east. The statue of George Canning is in the western
enclosure. Union Street ran due eastward to New Palace Yard, and must have cut very near the
place where the statue of Palmerston now stands. The drinking fountain at the corner of Great
George Street was put up by Charles Buxton in 1865 in memory of the abolition of the slave trade.

Westminster Abbey, Palace, and City stood formerly upon a small island called Thorney, the
Isle of Bramble, a low-lying islet covered with brambles, nowhere more than three or four feet
above the level of high-tide formed by the fall of the little river, the Tye, into the Thames.
Part of this stream ran down Gardener's Lane; part of it diverged and ran south, forming a
narrow moat or ditch called Long Lane, turned eastward at College Street, and so fell into
the Thames. The island is mentioned in a charter of 785 by Offa, King of Mercia, as "Tornica,
Locus terribilis"--i.e., sacred. It was about 1,410 feet long and 1,100 feet broad. It was
almost entirely, save for a narrow piece of land on the north, occupied by the King's House
and the Abbey. Both Palace and Abbey were surrounded by walls, one wall being common to both.

The Palace Precinct had three gates: one on the north, one on the east--leading to the Bridge,
i.e., the jetty where the state barges and the boats lay--and a postern leading into the Abbey.
Westminster was at first a large rural manor belonging to the Abbey before the erection of
the Palace.

A large part of Thorney Island is still only slightly above the level of high-tide. King Street
was 5 feet 6 inches only above high-water mark. This was the foundation of Westminster. It
was a busy place long before London Bridge was built--a place of throng and moil as far back
as the centuries before the coming of the Romans. A church was built in the most crowded part
of it; monks in leathern jerkins lived beside the church, which lay in ruins for two hundred
years, while the pagan Saxon passed every day beside it across the double ford. During the
two hundred years of war and conquest by the Saxons, Westminster, quite forgotten and deserted,
lay with its brambles growing over the Roman ruins, and the weather and ivy pulling down the
old walls of villa and stationary camp piecemeal. Perhaps--rather probably--there had been
a church upon the island in the third or fourth century. Soon after the conversion of the Saxons
another church was erected here with a monastic house. Then there was another destruction and
another rebuilding, for this place was deserted by the monks; perhaps they were murdered during
the Danish troubles. It was King Edgar who restored the Abbey, to which Dunstan brought twelve
monks from Glastonbury.

WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

(MRS. A. MURRAY SMITH.)

On the sacred island the last great Prince of the Saxon race, Edward, son of Ethelred the Unready,
found Dunstan's little brotherhood of Benedictine monks, who were living in mud huts round
a small stone chapel. Out of this insignificant beginning grew a mighty monastery, the West
Minster, dowered with royal gifts and ruled over by mitred Abbots, who owned no ecclesiastical
authority save that of the Pope, bowed to no secular arm save that of the Sovereign himself.
The full title of the Abbey, which is seldom used nowadays, is the Collegiate Church of St.
Peter's.

King Edward had vowed, during his long exile in Normandy, that if he ever sat on the throne
of his fathers he would go on a pilgrimage to St. Peter's shrine at Rome. But after his accession
the unsettled state of the kingdom made it impossible to keep this vow, and he was absolved
from it by the Pope on the condition that he should found or re-endow a monastic church dedicated
to St. Peter. This, therefore, was the origin of the great West Minster, and in afterdays the
tomb of St. Edward the Confessor within its walls attracted pilgrims here, and made the building
a peculiarly sacred one. Here the Sovereigns of England were always crowned, often married,
and until the time of George III. usually buried.

The earliest coronation of which there is historic certainty was that of Edward's friend and
former protector, the Conqueror, William I. As the last Saxon King of the race of Ethelred
was the first Sovereign who was buried at Westminster, so the head of the Norman line of English
Kings was the first who was hallowed to the service of God and of his people on this historic
spot. No trace is left of Edward's Norman monastery, save the foundations of some of the pillars
and a round arch in the cloisters; but we know that his church was nearly on the same place
as the present Abbey, and that the old Norman nave stood for many hundred years joined on to
the choir and transepts of the new Early English building, and was pulled down bit by bit as
the later church grew. For the beautiful Abbey which we see before us now, in the heart of
a busy thoroughfare, is the work, not of one generation, but of five hundred years. The central
part was built in the thirteenth century. The Confessor had been canonized by the Pope in 1163,
and a century later Henry III., who was a fervent admirer of the saint, caused a splendid shrine
to be made by Italian workmen, which was to replace the old one of Henry II.'s time. The new
style of pointed architecture was just coming in, and the Abbot of Westminster, Humez, had
added a Lady Chapel to the old Norman church when Henry III. was a boy. As the King grew to
manhood he saw the contrast between the two styles of architecture, and while the Italian shrine
was still only half finished he caused the central part of the Confessor's Norman church to
be demolished, and in its place an Early English choir and transepts were gradually constructed
during the last twenty-seven years of Henry's reign, with a series of little chapels round
the principal one where the shrine was to be placed. In 1269 the new church was ready for service,
and the chapel was prepared for the shrine.

The shrine, and within it the Confessor's coffin, still stands in the centre of this royal
chapel of St. Edward--a battered wreck, yet bearing traces of its former beauty--and round
it is a circle of royal tombs, drawn as by a magnet to the proximity of the royal saint. Henry
III., the second founder, is here himself. At his head is his warlike son Edward I., the Hammer
of the Scots, with his faithful wife, Eleanor of Castile, at his feet. On the other side are
the tombs of another Plantagenet, Edward III., the "mighty victor, mighty lord," and his good
Queen, the Flemish Philippa. In a line with them is their handsome, unfortunate grandson Richard
II., whose picture hangs beside the altar. Here also is the Coronation Chair, which encloses
the Stone of Scone, and upon this "Seat of Majesty," ever since the time of Edward I., who
reft the ancient stone from the Scots, all our Sovereigns have been seated at the moment of
their coronation. On the west of the royal chapel a screen depicts the legends of the Confessor's
life; on the east is the mutilated tomb of Henry V., the victor of Agincourt; above it the
Chantry Chapel, where, after centuries of neglect, rest the remains of his wife, the French
Catherine, ancestress of the great Tudor line.

While the different dynasties succeeded one another, the building of the monastery and church
went on slowly but surely under different Abbots, the monastic funds helped by gifts of money
from the Kings and Queens and from the pilgrims who visited the shrine. Edward I., for instance,
continued his father's work from the crossing of the transepts to one bay west of the present
organ-screen, while after him Richard II. and Henry V. were the principal benefactors to the
fabric. The west end was not reached till early in the sixteenth century, in the reign of Henry
VII., when Abbot Islip superintended the completion of the west front and placed in the niches
statues of those Kings who had been benefactors. The towers were not built till 1740, after
the designs of Sir Christopher Wren, who died before they were finished. The great northern
entrance has been called "Solomon's Porch" since the reign of Richard II., who erected a beautiful
wooden porch outside the north door. This was destroyed in the thirteenth century, and the
end of the north transept was changed into the classical style under Dean Atterbury, to whom,
it is fair to add, we owe the fine glass of the rose-window. Within recent years the north
front has again been restored on the lines of the original thirteenth-century architecture,
and the present sculpture on the porch is from the designs of Sir Gilbert Scott; the work was
carried out by Mr. John Pearson, who was the Abbey architect at that time.

At the extreme east end, in the place of the Lady Chapel built by Abbot Humez, is the famous
chapel called the "Wonder of the World," which was founded and endowed by the first Tudor King,
and intended as a place of sepulture for himself and his family. The foundation-stone was laid
in the presence of Henry VII. himself and of the great builder, Abbot Islip. The style is Perpendicular,
much later than the main portion of the Abbey, and the whole of the exterior and interior is
elaborately carved and decorated with stone panelling, the badge of the Royal founder, the
Tudor rose, recurring all over the walls. Inside the great feature is the "fan tracery" of
the stone roof, which resembles that of King's College Chapel, Cambridge. The windows were
once filled with coloured glass, only a fragment of which remains; and the niches with statues
of saints and Kings, many of which were destroyed in early Puritan times, in the reign of Edward
VI. In 1725 this chapel was appointed as the place for the installation of the Knights of the
Bath, an Order revived by George I., and, although the Knights are now installed at Windsor,
the Dean of Westminster remains the official chaplain of the Order.

In the centre of the chapel is the tomb of the founder, Henry VII., and his wife, Elizabeth
of York, and on the grille and the gates are the family badges. The tomb of Henry's mother,
Margaret, Countess of Richmond, is in the south aisle; and the effigies of herself, her son
and his wife, are fine specimens of the skill of the famous Italian sculptor Torrigiano. Henry's
grand-daughters, the Queens Elizabeth and Mary Tudor, lie in the opposite aisle, sisters parted
in life but united in death. Many other descendants of the founder lie side by side within
the vaults, while the tombs of two of them, Margaret Stuart, Countess of Lennox, and Mary,
Queen of Scots, are close to their common ancestress, Lady Margaret, in the south aisle. All
the Stuart Sovereigns with the exception of James II. are here, but their only memorials are
the wax figures of Charles II., William and Mary, and Anne, in the Islip chantry chapel.

In a small chapel to the east of Henry VII.'s tomb once lay the bodies of the great Protector,
Oliver Cromwell, and many of his mighty men, but their bones were dug up after the Restoration,
and not allowed to rest in the Royal church. The Hanoverian Sovereigns are represented only
by George II. and his Queen, Caroline the Illustrious, who rest here, their dust mingled according
to the King's desire. Close by lie members of their numerous family and the mother, brothers
and sisters of the next King, their grandson, George III. Amongst his relations is that brave
General, the Duke of Cumberland, whose memory is maligned in the sobriquet "Billy the Butcher."

In the ring of smaller chapels all around the shrine are the tombs of Princes and Princesses,
courtiers and Court ladies, warriors and statesmen. Most conspicuous of all, towering over
the beautiful Crusaders' monuments, is the vast cenotaph which insults the memory of Wolfe,
and not far off is the colossal statue of James Watt.

Outside, the cloisters recall the days of the monastery, when the Abbot sat in state in the
east cloister or washed the feet of beggars, and the brethren taught the novices and little
schoolboys from the neighbourhood. The architecture there begins in the eleventh century and
ends in the fourteenth, when Abbot Litlington finished the building of the monastic offices
and cloisters with his predecessor Langham's bequest.

The incomparable chapter-house was built in Henry III.'s time, and restored to some of its
original beauty by Sir Gilbert Scott. The modern glass windows remind us of Dean Stanley and
his love for the Abbey-church. The chapter-house belongs, as does the Chapel of the Pyx, to
the Government, and is not under the Dean's jurisdiction. There the early Parliaments used
to meet. In the south cloister is the door of the old refectory where the monks dined, and
a little further on we come to the Abbot's house (now the Deanery), which contained in old
days within its limits the "College Hall," where the Westminster schoolboys now have their
meals. The Jerusalem Chamber and Jericho Parlour, which were formerly the Abbot's withdrawing-room
and guest-chambers, date from the abbacy of Litlington at the end of the fourteenth century.
To all lovers of Shakespeare the Jerusalem Chamber is familiar as the place where Henry IV.
was carried when he fell stricken with a mortal illness before the shrine, and where Henry
V. fitted on his father's crown. In this room in our own days the Revisers of the Bible used
to meet.

If we pass back into the nave by the west door, we shall see the names of statesmen, of naval
and military heroes, on every side. Huge monstrosities of monuments surround us and grow in
bulk as we pass up the musicians' aisle and reach the north transept, called the Statesmen's
Corner. If we pause and glance around, striving to forget the outer shell, and to think only
of the noble men commemorated, we shall remember much to make us proud of England's heroes
and worthies. Above the west door stands young William Pitt pointing with outstretched arm
towards the north transept, where we shall find his venerable father, Lord Chatham. Almost
beneath his feet is the philanthropist Lord Shaftesbury, and near to him is a white slave kneeling
before the statue of Charles James Fox, whose huge monument hides the humbler tablet to another
zealous opponent of the slave trade, Zachary Macaulay. We must pause here an instant to gaze
upon the bronze medallion head of General Gordon, the martyr of the Soudan, an enthusiast also
in the suppression of slavery; and as we walk up the nave we must look for the slab of Livingstone,
whose remains were brought to their final resting-place over deserts and trackless wildernesses
by his faithful black servants.

On the right, in Little Poets' Corner, is to be found the chief of the Lake poets, William
Wordsworth. Here also is Dr. Arnold, the noted Headmaster of Rugby, his son Matthew, poet and
critic, and beside them Keble, Kingsley and Maurice.

The makers of our Indian Empire are about us now. Outram, the "Bayard of India," lies between
Lord Lawrence and Lord Clyde; while in the north transept are earlier pioneers, the faithful
naval, military, and civil servants of the great East India Company. On each side of the screen
are two ponderous monuments which cannot escape the notice of the most casual sightseer; these
commemorate Lord Stanhope, a General whose early reputation ranked next to that of Marlborough
in Spain, and the immortal philosopher, Sir Isaac Newton. Purcell, chief among English musicians,
claims our notice in the choir aisle, and we pass on surrounded by other musicians, by sailors
and soldiers, until we stand in the very midst of the statesmen. It may be we have come to
the Abbey in the spring, when we shall see the statue of Lord Beaconsfield literally covered
with primroses. The Cannings, Sir Robert Peel in his Roman toga, Lord Palmerston, and many
other statesmen, are here, and our feet tread on the grave of Gladstone as we pass towards
the other transept, hastening to the company of the poets and men of letters.

The south transept has only been called Poets' Corner since the burial of Spenser, who was
the darling of his generation. But the grave of Chaucer, "the father of English poetry," had
consecrated the aisle to poetry long before. Chaucer was not given honourable sepulture here
because he was a poet, but only from the accidental fact that he happened to be Clerk of the
Works at Westminster Palace, and lived near the old Lady Chapel. For 250 years the great poet's
only memorial was a leaden plate hanging on a column close by, but in 1551 a devoted admirer,
himself a versifier, Nicholas Brigham, placed an ancient tomb here in memory of the master,
with a fancy painting of Chaucer at the back. Before this monument are the graves of the two
most famous poets of our generation, the Laureate Tennyson and Robert Browning, side by side.
Above them is the beautiful bust of another Poet Laureate, Dryden, and the less artistic portrait
bust of the American poet Longfellow.

The walls of the Poets' Corner are literally covered with memorials of men of letters. Many
of these are but names to us at the present day, but some are familiar; others, such as "Rare
Ben Jonson," Butler, the author of "Hudibras," Thomas Gray, Spenser, and Goldsmith, are household
words throughout the Empire. Beneath our feet lie Sheridan and old Dr. Johnson.

The tardy memorials to Milton and Shakespeare eclipse the fame of all the rest. Quite recently
busts of the Scotch bard Robert Burns, the poet-novelist Walter Scott, and a medallion head
of the artistic prose writer and critic John Ruskin, have been placed here. Music is not unrepresented,
for above us is the unwieldy figure of Handel, and beneath his feet a memorial to the Swedish
nightingale, Jenny Lind Goldschmidt, whose perfect rendering of the master's airs will ever
remain in the memory of those who were privileged to hear her. Further on is the historical
side, where the chief prose writers are to be found; the venerable Camden is close to Grote
and Bishop Thirlwall, historians whose bodies rest in one grave. The busts of Lord Macaulay
and of Thackeray are on each side of Addison's statue, and beneath the pavement in front of
them is the tombstone of the ever-popular Charles Dickens. David Garrick stands in close proximity
to the grave of the dramatist Davenant, while scattered in various parts of the Abbey and cloisters
will be found the names of other actors and actresses, notably Mrs. Siddons and her brother,
John Kemble.

It is impossible in a few paragraphs to do more than allude to the history of the Abbey, and
of the dead whose names are commemorated, or whose bodies rest within this great "Temple of
Silence and Reconciliation." Let us conclude this brief sketch with the pregnant and pathetic
words of the young playwriter John Beaumont, whose bones are mouldering beside those of Chaucer:

    "Mortality, behold and fear!
    What a change of flesh is here!
    Think how many royal bones
    Sleep within these heaps of stones.
    Here they lie had realms and lands
    Who now want strength to stir their hands.

ST. MARGARET'S CHURCH.

St. Margaret's Church is traditionally said to have been founded by Edward the Confessor, and
that there was certainly a church here before 1140 is proved by its being mentioned in a grant
of Abbot Herebert, who died in that year. It was originally a chapel in the south aisle of
the church of the Benedictine monks, and was rebuilt to a great extent in Edward I.'s reign.
Further alterations were made in the time of Edward IV. In 1735 the tower was raised and faced
with stone, and in 1758 the east end was rebuilt and the present stained glass inserted. A
famous case between Sir Thomas Grosvenor and the family of Scrope concerning the rights of
a heraldic device which either claimed was heard in St. Margaret's, and Geoffrey Chaucer, the
poet, gave evidence. In 1549 Latimer preached in the church. The Protector Somerset, at the
time he was building his great mansion in the Strand, had used a good deal of the ruins of
religious houses, and still wanted more material. He therefore cast his unholy eyes upon St.
Margaret's in order that he might use its time-worn stones for his own purposes, but he was
resisted by the people of Westminster, who arose in their wrath and smote his workmen hip and
thigh.

On Palm Sunday in 1713 the great Dr. Sacheverell preached in the church after the term of his
suspension, and no less than 40,000 copies of his sermon were sold. The church was for long
peculiarly associated with the House of Commons, as when the members began to sit in St. Stephen's
Chapel they attended Divine service in St. Margaret's, while the Lords went to the Abbey. Edmund
Waller, the poet, was married in St. Margaret's to Anne Banks on July 5, 1631, and John Milton
to Katherine Woodcock in November, 1656. A son of Sir Walter Raleigh's is buried in the church,
and also Colonel Blood. Children of Judge Jeffreys: Bishop Burnet, Titus Oates and Jeremy Bentham
were christened here. Besides Latimer and Sacheverell the list of great preachers in St. Margaret's
is long, including many Archbishops and Bishops, and the roll of Rectors contains many distinguished
names. A man who occupies the pulpit must feel he has high tradition to uphold.

The interior of St. Margaret's is far superior to the exterior, a reversal of what is usual
in church architecture. The splendid arcades of aisle arches, early Perpendicular, or transition
from Decorated to the Perpendicular style, are uninterrupted by any chancel arch, and with
the clerestory windows sweep from end to end of the building. The east window is filled with
stained glass of the richest tints, the blues and greens being particularly striking. This
glass has a history. It was made at Gouda in Holland, and was a present from the magistrates
of Dort to Henry VIII. for the chapel of Whitehall Palace. The King, however, gave it to Waltham
Abbey (doubtless in exchange for something else). The glass suffered many removals and vicissitudes,
being at one time buried to escape Puritan zeal, but it was eventually bought by the churchwardens
of St. Margaret's for 400 guineas. The aisle windows, with one exception, to be noted presently,
are the work of Sir Gilbert Scott at the last restoration, just before 1882. He designed the
tracery in accordance with what he conceived to have been the date of the church; but when
his work was finished a single window, that furthest east in the south aisle, was discovered
walled up, and the style of this showed that his surmise had not been far wrong, though the
period he had chosen was a little later. The glass in several of the windows is of interest.
That at the east end of the south aisle is the Caxton window, put up 1820 by the Roxburghe
Club, as was also the tablet below. That in the window in the centre, west end, is in memory
of Sir Walter Raleigh, who was beheaded in Old Palace Yard, near at hand. It was put in by
Americans about twenty years ago. Raleigh's tablet, with an inscription copied from the old
wooden one which dated from the time of his death, is near the east entrance. The Milton window,
also due to the generosity of an American, is on the north side of the Raleigh one. One of
especial interest to Americans is that to Phillips Brooks, Bishop of Massachusetts, near the
vestry door. There are many others deserving of notice.

The general tint of all the glass is rich and subdued, with a predominance of yellow and sepia
strangely effective. Of monuments there are many--they may be examined in detail on the spot;
the oldest is that to Cornelius Van Dun, a dark stone medallion with a man's head in bas-relief
on the north wall. Van Dun was Yeoman of the Guard and Usher to Henry VIII., Edward VI., Mary
and Elizabeth. A quaint one near it is to "Egioke," died 1622. The most elaborate monument
in the church is that to Mary, Lady Dudley, sister to the famous Lord Howard of Effingham.
This is the life-sized figure of a woman in alabaster, highly coloured; it stands near the
vestry door. Above it is a relic that many might pass unnoticed; it is the figure of a woman
about two-thirds life-size standing in an ancient rood door. The statue was found built up
in the wall by a workman who struck his pick into the coloured stuff, and called attention
to the fact. The figure is either that of the Virgin or St. Margaret. It has been carefully
put together, but the head is lacking. Puritan zeal had evidently to do with its concealment.
Puritan zeal, too, was answerable for the destruction of a magnificent tomb to Dame Billing,
a benefactress who rebuilt the south aisle of the church about 1499.

The churchwardens of St. Margaret's hold a valuable old loving-cup, presented 1764, and a tobacco-box
purchased at Horn Fair for fourpence, and presented to the overseers by a Mr. Monck in 1713.
Each succeeding set of overseers has added to the decoration of the box or given it a new case,
and many of these are beautifully engraved; on the inside of the original lid Hogarth engraved
on a silver plate the bust of the Duke of Cumberland of Culloden celebrity, and the whole set
is now of great value and is quite unique. The door of the church opposite the Houses of Parliament
is open daily from eleven till two.

WESTMINSTER SCHOOL.

Outside the archway leading to Dean's Yard there is a granite column to the memory of the Westminster
boys who fell in the Crimean War and Indian Mutiny. It was designed by Gilbert Scott, R.A.
Scott was also the architect of the houses over the archway close at hand. The school has been
long and intimately associated with the Abbey; there was probably a scholastic establishment
carried on by the monks from the very earliest days, and recent discoveries by Mr. Edward Scott
in the Abbey muniments prove that there was a grammar school--and not only a choir school--in
existence before the Reformation. On the dissolution of the Abbey in Henry VIII.'s reign, it
was formed into a college of Secular Canons, and the school was in existence then in dependence
on the Canons. Queen Elizabeth remodelled her father's scheme and refounded the school, calling
it St. Peter's College, Westminster, which is still its correct designation; so that, though
the present establishment owes its origin to Queen Elizabeth, it may be said to have inherited
the antiquity of its predecessor, and to hold its own in that matter with Winchester and Eton.

