On the last day of the month there was a meeting of the directors in the closed room off the
President's own.  It was a short meeting, and Mr. Wintermuth did the most of the talking, while
Mr. Whitehill, who had advocated the election of Mr. Gunterson, had little to say.  And so
it befell that the directors, after voting him salary in advance for a liberal term, accepted
the resignation from the Guardian of Samuel Gunterson; and to fill the vacancy so created,
there was unanimously elected to be Vice-President and under-writing manager, Richard Smith.

CHAPTER XVI

Smith took office at nine o'clock on the first business day of April. The fifteen minutes following
were spent by him in patiently listening to Mr. Wintermuth's diagnosis of the various ills
with which the Guardian was afflicted, related supposedly for his education.  When the first
pause was reached, the new Vice-President said:--

"I've followed things pretty carefully, sir; and with what you have just told me I think I
know about where we stand.  We're certainly in bad shape at present, from the agency standpoint,
but it's by no means hopeless.  And financially we seem to be well off.  I looked over the
statement Mr. Bartels gave me last night, and since the first of the year some of our investments
must have appreciated handsomely; I see that Ninth National Bank stock is selling away above
the valuation we put on it in our statement."

"Yes; it is thought that some of the Duane Trust Company people are trying to buy a controlling
interest," the President responded more cheerfully.

"But of course that is not in my province," Smith continued.  "The question with me is what
immediate action to take with reference to the agency plant.  Now, Boston is gone--there's
no hurry there.  Buffalo is lost, too.  It seems unlikely that New York will get in any deeper
trouble this week or next--although of course you can't tell.  But Philadelphia and Pittsburgh
need attention right away."  He glanced at the small clock on Mr. Wintermuth's desk.  "If you'll
excuse me, sir," he said, "I think I can make the ten o'clock on the Pennsylvania.  I brought
my suitcase down here, thinking that I might want to start in a hurry."

"Go ahead, my boy.  Good luck," said his chief.

And so Smith caught the ten o'clock express from the Pennsylvania station, leaving behind him
in the Guardian office an elderly gentleman in whose breast an undefined cheerfulness had awakened.
But it was to neither Philadelphia nor Pittsburgh that the Vice-President's ticket read; he
had taken a ticket to Harrisburg.

Many years before, the Attorney-General of the state of Pennsylvania had been a famous football
player at the state university; whether his gridiron career had any bearing on his legal equipment
or not was a question, but it certainly did not make him a worse man.  His name was James K.
Prior, he stood six feet one, and weighed two hundred pounds.

Mr. Prior was a believer in modern government, although in fighting his way up to the attorney-generalship
he had seen enough of the Pennsylvania variety to have given a lesser optimist his doubts.
He also believed in modern business conditions, and so far as he properly could, he officially
encouraged what he regarded as being legitimate commercial combinations.  But he did not believe
in trusts.  He had followed local legislation long enough to be very sure that there was in
it far too much sophistry and too little equity, and he was a strong upholder of what he termed
fair play, whether it came peacefully along statutory lines or whether it had to be jerked
raw from the shambles of a hundred confused and specious lawyer-made laws.

All in all, he made an active and satisfactory attorney-general.

Now it chanced that during the last session of an unusually prolific legislature a political
opponent of Mr. Prior's had contrived to secure the passage of a bill designed to give a certain
latitude to certain rather questionable combinations of capital, known in the vernacular as
trusts.  Senator McGaw, Mr. Prior's antagonist, had managed this bit of special legislation
very craftily indeed.  The bill was so innocently worded as to disarm the most vigilant and
radical trust-buster; it appeared as though its purpose was exactly the reverse of that for
which it had been subtly designed; in fact, in an excessive effort to avert suspicion a couple
of clauses had found their way into this document which gave Mr. Prior some of the keenest
pleasure of his career.

"You are perfectly safe in signing that bill, Governor," he had said to the State's chief executive,
who had asked his advice in the matter. "I'll bet my professional reputation that the courts
will hold that it gives us more than it takes away.  McGaw's people think it ties the State's
hands from proceeding against concerns which operate in restraint of trade by restricting their
distributing centers.  Instead of which we'll have them on the hip--that section four went
a little too far.  Just let one of them try to keep his product exclusively in the hands of
his sole distributers, and I give you my word I'll have the responsible officer of that concern
in jail!  Go ahead and sign the bill, Governor--it's all right with me."

It was the draft of this bill, now signed and recently become a law, which occupied the attention
of Smith during a large part of the ride from New York to Harrisburg.  And the more he studied
it, the more hopeful became his expression.  And it was with the most buoyant of steps that
he made his way from Harrisburg station to the office of Mr. Prior.  To that distinguished
gentleman he sent in a card whereon he added after his name two things: first, "Vice-President
Guardian Fire Insurance Co. of New York," and second, by a whimsical but considered afterthought,
"I saw you kick that goal from the field against Cornell."

Mr. Prior was thoroughly inured to conversing with corporation executives,--they were no novelty
to him,--presumably, therefore, it was the second memorandum which caused Smith to be ushered
almost immediately into the presence of the Attorney-General, who regarded his visitor with
a good-humored smile on his clean-shaven lips.

"Mr. Smith, I presume?" he inquired.

"Yes, sir," the other answered.

"I gather from this card," Mr. Prior pursued, glancing at it, "that you remember having seen
me--elsewhere."

"When I was fifteen years old," Smith replied.  "And I've been to a good many games since,
but I don't think I ever saw any one else kick a goal from the field at a mean angle on the
forty-yard line with a stiff wind quartering against him."

"Perhaps not--at least in the last two minutes of play," the Attorney-General agreed reflectively;
and the New Yorker could easily pardon this embellishment.

It was some little time later when Mr. Prior somewhat reluctantly returned to things mundanely
legal so far as to ask his caller's business.

Smith explained.

When, on the following afternoon, he walked into President Wintermuth's office, if there was
in his manner a certain undertrace of elation, it must be forgiven him, for this, his first
stroke in his broad horizon, seemed thus far up to every expectation of success.

"Well, what did you do?" was Mr. Wintermuth's greeting, as he looked up to find Smith before him.

"The Attorney-General of Pennsylvania," said Smith slowly, "is going into court to-morrow to
ask for an injunction, alleging conspiracy and restraint of trade, forbidding the Eastern Conference
from enforcing a separation rule anywhere within the boundaries of the state."

"What's that?" said the President, sharply.  "A restraining order, you say?"

"Yes.  Mr. Prior, the Attorney-General, thinks he will have little trouble in securing a temporary
injunction.  Later on he will move to make this permanent, and there will doubtless be a fight
on that; but he thinks he can beat them under the new Anti-Trust Law.  In the meantime it ties
up the Philadelphia and Pittsburgh boards, and I think we can get back most of the smaller
Pennsylvania agents we've lost. Most of them are well disposed toward us; other things being
equal, they'd be glad to restore the status quo, and none of them are anxious to be made joint
defendants with the Conference companies in a conspiracy suit."

Mr. Wintermuth said nothing for a long minute; then his face broke into almost the first sincere
smile which had been seen on it since the opening of the year.

"That's very well done--a good idea and well executed, Richard," he said.

"Thank you, sir," said Smith.

There was more discussion to follow, and the two went over the situation as a whole more fully
than had been hitherto possible.

"Of course," Smith pointed out, "this is just a beginning.  But Philadelphia and Pittsburgh
are safe--that's something.  And Baltimore will never dare make a move after this, for Maryland
always follows Pennsylvania.  No, our chief problem at present is New York and New England."

"Yes," agreed the older man.  His face darkened.  "Boston!  How about Boston?  What can we
do up there?"

"I don't know," returned Smith, slowly.  "But there's one thing we can do, and do at once.
We can close the Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy agency.  We can decapitate that crew in forty-eight
hours, and with your permission I'll go up there and do it myself."

"Go ahead," said the President.

That night Mr. Wintermuth enjoyed the first peaceful rest for almost three months.  Smith,
on the contrary, perhaps through his anxiety to put his Boston agency house in order, remained
sleepless far into the small, still hours.  Nevertheless he departed next day for Boston on
the three o'clock express, arriving in Boston at eight, although he might as well have taken
a later train, for it was certain that neither Sternberg, Bloom, nor McCoy would be apt to
remain in their offices until that hour of night.  Doubtless it was for this reason that he
left the train at the Huntington Avenue station and turned west toward Deerfield Street.

Fifteen minutes later he was waiting in the reception hall of an apartment house, the construction
of which he had once, in the Guardian office at New York, quite minutely described for the
edification of a certain young lady visitor.  In due course of time he was conveyed to the
proper floor, and a moment later found himself shaking hands with the identical young lady.

"Mother, this is Mr. Richard Smith of New York, a friend of Uncle Silas, of whom I told you."

Smith found himself bowing to a little gray lady whose manner was so gentle that he unconsciously
lowered his voice in speaking to her.  She was dressed all in gray, and her hair was gray,
and the silvery lights that glistened in it moved through the folds of a tiny lace object which
might, had it been developed, have proved to be a cap.  To call so filmy and nebulous a thing
a garment of any kind was perhaps absurd; but if this premise was once granted, it would have
been correct to say that Mrs. Maitland clung to caps.  Certainly no article could have better
suited her, and in her single person she had done almost as much as all the rest of Boston
to revivify a dying but delightful institution.

The little lady, for all her mildness of manner and appearance, proved to be as wide awake
as any one of the three.  She even found a way to discover, without Smith's being aware of
it, whether he possessed the typical New Yorker's attitude toward her native city.  Mrs. Maitland
lived in the firm and fixed belief that all New Yorkers, dwelling as they did in a restless
and artificial milieu of restaurants and theaters and dollars, had for Boston and Bostonians
a kind of patronizing pity.  The fact that she herself regarded New Yorkers in very much the
same light had never occurred to her.

Smith, however, was not a typical New Yorker.  He had too real and intense an interest in all
created things to fear Mrs. Maitland's gently suspicious inquisition.  In addition to this
he was so genuinely interested in at least one of the Bostonians before him that he naturally
and easily escaped the pitfalls into which another might have tumbled.  So thoroughly, indeed,
did he win approval and disarm suspicion that before very long he had his reward in being left,
before the small but cheerful fire, with the daughter of the house.

This tactful withdrawal did not lessen the attraction of Mrs. Maitland in Smith's eyes, and
it was with real admiration in his tone that he said to Helen:--

"I think your mother is charming."

"I have thought so," returned Helen, with assumed loftiness, "for thirty or forty years."

"So long?" queried Smith, thoughtfully.  "That merely goes to show how one can be deceived."

"Deceived!" said Miss Maitland.  "Unless you mean self-deception, I would like an explanation
of that remark."

But her visitor said that in his opinion to explain anything, however occult, to a Bostonian,
savored of intellectual impudence, and was, at the least, a piece of presumption of which he
hoped he should never be guilty.

"And yet I can remember," said the girl, laughing, "an occasion when explanations were made
to a young lady from Boston--and explanations that took some time, too.  I--even I--can bear
witness to that."

"My life," Smith rejoined, "has been like that of a candidate for office, such that he who
runs may read--and he need not necessarily be a ten-second sprinter, either.  Only one dark,
shameful page is in it, and that is the record of the day when I talked deaf, dumb, and blind
the helpless stranger within the Guardian's gates."

"Are you really sorry?" Helen asked more seriously.

Smith looked at her.

"It has been more than three months since you left New York," he said. "I have been glad of
it--and sorry for it--every day of that time."

"And which are you now?" inquired the girl, with interest.

"If I should start on that subject, I should probably regret it. Hadn't we better talk of something
else?"

"As you wish," Helen returned lightly.  "But you can at least tell me about the Guardian, and
what has been happening since I left.  In an occasional letter which I have received from an
insurance friend of mine in New York, there has never been a word about his company."

"Your correspondent no doubt wanted to be cheerful when he wrote to, you, and for that reason
it has been necessary for him to omit all reference to the Guardian's affairs."

"But I heard indirectly about them, just the same--from Uncle Silas.  I know of course that
he retired from the active management of Silas Osgood and Company because he was humiliated
and chagrined at being obliged to resign the agency of his old friend Mr. Wintermuth's company,
and I know that, although he would not interfere with Mr. Cole after Mr. Cole took charge of
the business, he disapproved of Mr. Cole's accepting the agency of the Salamander."

"Well, if you know as much as that, you know that our suspicions of Mr. O'Connor proved all
too true.  He not only engineered the scheme to get us out of the Eastern Conference, but after
we got out he has tried to steal all our best agents and business for his own company, and,
thanks to the lack of any resistance on our part, he has been able in many cases to succeed."

"But why didn't you resist?  I don't quite understand.  Couldn't anybody--couldn't you stop him?"

"I--I didn't have a chance," answered Smith.

"Indeed?  And why not?" continued his inquisitor.

"From the series of pointed questions you are putting me, I might almost imagine I was being
interviewed by the representative of a muck-raking magazine," countered her visitor, in covert
concern.

"From the lack of actual information in your replies one might almost imagine you were," Helen
cordially agreed.  "Now are you going to answer my inquiry?"

"Well, the Guardian directors selected another man to take charge of its underwriting affairs,
and we didn't hit it off very well--naturally he did things in his own way."

"I know," said the girl, nodding her head; "Mr. Gunterson."

"Good heavens!" said the young man, "is there any use in my attempting to give information
to some one who already has it all?  If you know all about this and what has gone on, why ask me?"

"I wanted to hear what you'd say.  It is a natural desire, I'm sure, and you ought to be willing
to help gratify it.  You see, you are responsible for my interest in the affairs of your insurance
company, and you have almost a parental responsibility."

"How is Wilkinson?" said Smith, engagingly.

"Presently it may be that the conversation can be diverted to Mr. Wilkinson.  But not now."

"Well, then, to go back to the affairs of the Guardian, how is Mr. Osgood?  It's rather dangerous
for a man who's been in harness so long to get out of it so suddenly.  It's not good for a
man--in my opinion."

"More adroit--for I really want to tell you about Uncle Silas.  But business first--then pleasure."

"Well," said her visitor, with resignation, "go ahead, Miss Portia."

"I wish to know all about what happened in the Guardian while Mr. Gunterson was in charge,"
said Helen, simply.

And finally, with a few evasions which were immediately detected and some omissions which were
possibly suspected, Smith told the story of the decline of the Guardian.

"So Mr. Gunterson left," commented the girl, when all was said.  "What happened then?"

"Why, that's substantially all, to date," returned the New Yorker, dishonestly; "except that
I've been sent up here to see what I can do to improve our position in Boston."

"Ah!  Who sent you?  Who is in charge of the Guardian now?" continued Miss Maitland, calmly.

"Mr. Wintermuth, of course," replied her victim.

"And under Mr. Wintermuth?  Has no one been elected to fill Mr. Gunterson's place?"

"Well, you see, Mr. Gunterson only resigned a few days ago.  Boards of directors don't as a
rule move very rapidly.  There hasn't really been a great deal of time."

"Who has been elected to fill Mr. Gunterson's place?"

"Are you under the impression that--?"

"Do you wish me to say it again?  Who has been elected Vice-President of the Guardian?"

"A man," said her visitor slowly, "by the name of Smith."

Helen leaned back in her chair in mock exhaustion.

"That was certainly awfully difficult," she said, with a little laugh of triumph.  "I thought
you would never admit it."

"I suppose you'd have found it out sometime, anyway," Smith said philosophically.

"No, you're wrong," his companion denied, "for the very good and simple reason that I already
knew it."

"You knew it!  And yet you put me through this cross-examination?"

Helen nodded complacently.

"Uncle Silas told me this afternoon."

"But how did he know?  No announcement has been made."

"Mr. Wintermuth wrote him."

"Well," said Smith, "no ring master with a long, cracking whip ever made a reluctant poodle
jump through a series of hoops in a more professional manner than you put me through my little
story."

"Yes," said Helen, demurely.  Then, growing suddenly more serious, she said, "And won't you
let me congratulate you, Mr. Vice-President?"

"I will," said Smith.  "There is no one I know by whom I would rather be congratulated."

He took in his own her offered hand, and for just a moment an enchanted silence abode in the
room.  Then, with no effort on Smith's part to detain her, Helen withdrew her hand.

"Now I can tell you about Uncle Silas and Charlie Wilkinson," she said. "And both are so interesting
as topics that I hardly know where to begin."

"Begin with Mr. Osgood, please," her visitor suggested.

"Very well, then.  I have been seeing quite a little of Uncle Silas lately.  After he turned
over the management of his business to Bennington Cole, it seems as if he hardly knew what
to do with himself. For many years he has been such a busy man that this leisure has left him
at a loss to pass his time.  So he has been playing around with me to some extent.  We have
had lots of long talks together; among other subjects we have even discussed you."

"So I learn," Smith responded.

"Don't be saturnine," the girl rejoined.  "Seriously, though, while I've enjoyed Uncle's Silas's
society, I don't believe this idleness is good for him.  In fact, I'm rather worried about
him--I think having nothing to do makes him despondent, for it makes him feel as though his
day's work was over.  And there's no reason why it should be.  He's not really old, although
he looks rather frail, and I believe he'd be better and happier if he went back into business now."

"Why doesn't he, then?" the other asked.  "He still retains his interest in the agency, doesn't
he?"

"Yes, I believe so.  But it's largely a matter of pride with him.  He retired because it was
necessary for the firm to resign the Guardian, and I doubt whether he would go back unless
it could be arranged that the Guardian go back too.  Can't you arrange it?"

"Well, hardly--that is, right away," Smith replied.  "Present conditions are about the same
as when the company left the Osgood agency, but I feel more encouraged, myself, to believe
there may be a way around.  I'll call on Mr. Osgood to-morrow the first thing I do--no, the
second."

"What is the first?--if I may ask."

"To close the agency of our present Boston representatives, Messrs. Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy.
And now tell me the news about Mr. Charles Wilkinson, the hero of the Hurd trolley schedule."

"Mr. Wilkinson is about to extend his responsibilities in connection with the Hurd family."

"You don't mean that old John M. Hurd was so impressed that he--?"

"Quite another thing.  Undoubtedly Mr. Hurd was impressed with Mr. Wilkinson's talents as an
insurance broker, but scarcely to the extent of desiring him for a son-in-law."

"A son-in-law!  You mean--"

"That Charlie got a trolley schedule and a fiancée out of the same family."

"Well, well!  So Miss Hurd is going to marry Wilkinson!  Well, she'll acquire an ingenious
and enterprising husband, at any rate.  And what does John M. say?"

"Not a great deal--he's quite laconic, as usual.  But what little he says is very much to the
point.  He says he had supposed a daughter of his would have more sense.  However, since she
hasn't, he can merely state that he withholds his consent to the match.  Isabel's of age, and
if she chooses to marry Charlie she can do so, but without approval or assistance from her father."

"Meaning," said Smith, "an unpleasant codicil in the paternal last will and testament, providing
that instead of a previous bequest, his beloved daughter be paid two hundred dollars a month
as long as she lives.  What does Wilkinson say to Mr. Hurd's attitude?  One might gather that
it would make a certain difference with him, for, although Miss Hurd is certainly very attractive,
I somehow gained the general impression that your friend Charlie had a very clear eye on the
main chance."

"Isabel doesn't seem a bit disturbed, for I think she anticipated her father's point of view;
and as for Charlie, seeing that his chief source of income at present depends wholly on the
favor of a man who is angry enough to disinherit his daughter for wanting to marry him--well,
one would expect that Charlie would be depressed, or at least thoughtful.  But not at all.
He's in the highest of spirits, and says that the mere rumor that he is going to marry into
the Hurd family will establish a line of credit good enough to last ten years."

"But really--isn't the young man a bit mercurial?"

"Oh, awfully!  To tell the truth, I was a little surprised when Isabel took him, for under
her society manner she's very sensible and self-controlled.  And yet Charlie's very attractive
and amusing and really clever at times, and she is just the kind of girl that ought to take
hold of him and tactfully make him amount to something.  She'll be the best thing in the world
for him."

"I wonder why a man almost always falls in love either with a girl who is just the sort or
not at all the sort he should have selected.  It's always one or the other--never any middle
course.  I wonder what kind of girl you would say was just the sort for me."

"One would have to know a man extremely well to venture a suggestion on such a point, don't
you think?" Miss Maitland parried.

"Perhaps," Smith agreed.  "And after all, since I can't myself say exactly what sort of girl
would be most perfectly suited to my special peculiarities, it would be a little unreasonable
to expect any one else to do so."

His companion gave a suppressed sigh of relief that a subject which might have developed elements
of high hazard seemed now to be avoided. She was not quite sure what she thought of the man
before her, but she knew that he seemed strong and vital and sincere.  From Mr. Osgood she
had learned that other people of considerable discrimination held a like opinion.

It was quite strange.  Superficially, introspection would have led her to believe that she
would have been attracted by some one nearer to her own enthusiasms, her own breeding, her
own ideals.  This young man was alien to her in birth, and his education had been along totally
different lines, and logically they should not have been in sympathy one with the other, for
he made her ideals seem somehow bloodless and her enthusiasms sterile and hardly worth while.
It was certainly perplexing, for after three months in which she had not seen him, the attraction
he exercised upon her had not noticeably lessened.  She oddly felt that it would have been
more considerate in Smith had he reappeared a little weaker and less vivid than her remembrance
of him.

Nevertheless she was distinctly glad to see him again.  That was a fact to be faced, and when,
at parting, he inquired whether Boston would be scandalized if he were to call again the following
evening, since he would probably have to leave on the next day, she found herself impelled
to yield so ready an assent that she felt swift need to disguise it.  Yet she gave him the
answer he wished.

Next morning Smith's first visit was to Mr. Gunterson's discoveries. Only one of the partners,
Mr. Bloom, had reached the office at the time the representative of the Guardian was announced,
and it became necessary to wait until Mr. Sternberg and Mr. McCoy arrived.  This they presently
did, and a brief meeting took place in the same room in which, three months before, this precious
trio had signed a Guardian contract with Samuel Gunterson.  But the present interview was far
less meandering and much more to the point than its predecessor.

"Gentlemen," said Smith, "the jig is up.  I've come here to close your agency for the Guardian."

The three partners looked at him.  Sternberg was first to recover the power of speech.

"Why, Mr. Smith," he said unctuously, "you're acting very hasty!  Do you think this is fair
and just to us?  We haven't had enough of a tryout to really count."

"And I bet you we're giving you fifty per cent more business than Osgood did," Jake Bloom broke
in.  "Just because we've been a little unfortunate right on the go-off on a few losses is no
reason for closing us up.  You're making a mistake to leave us.  Give us a year at least--we'll
make good for you."

"The losses you've got through this office is on business any company would be glad to write,"
interposed McCoy.  "Any company would take it right over again."

"I'm sorry," responded the New Yorker; "but in accordance with the conditions of our contract,
either party can terminate it at any time, and I consider it best to take this action for my
company.  I regret that it is necessary, but there is no alternative.  If it's a mistake, we
all have to make mistakes now and then, and I guess I'll choose this for mine."

Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy regarded him in hostile silence.

"Furthermore," Smith continued, "the Guardian feels that it would prefer to cancel all policies
written through your agency.  I hope that this can be arranged without trouble to your firm."

Bloom laughed, and directed a stream of tobacco juice into a convenient cuspidor.

"Sure it can, Mr. Smith," he said, "because this firm absolutely declines to have nothing to
do with it.  If you want any policies canceled, cancel 'em yourselves."

"Well," said Smith, "if we cancel all these policies we will undoubtedly inconvenience the
brokers that placed the business with you, and they'll come back at you.  Now I tell you what
I'll do.  If you'll cancel these policies and replace the lines in one or more of your other
companies, I won't demand any return commission.  By just substituting other policies you can
square yourselves with the brokers and make a double commission besides.  Isn't that fair?"

The three partners looked at one another inquiringly.

"That seems all right," Sternberg finally said.  "But you're making a mistake to leave us,
Mr. Smith.  I tell you that straight.  No one else can give you what we can."

Probably the last statement was absolutely true, but it did not alter the New Yorker's decision.

"Well, we won't go into that," he said.  "I shall expect our canceled policies to come along
as soon as you can get at them.  Meanwhile, please give me your commission of authority and
unused policies forty-one twenty-seven to forty-five hundred inclusive.  You can send back
the rest of the supplies by express collect, or destroy them."

A few minutes later, Smith, with a large bundle under each arm, might have been seen leaving
the office of his late agents and making straight for an express office from where he shipped
the Guardian's supplies back to New York.  To Mr. Wintermuth he sent a telegram which read
concisely, "Closed Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy agency.  Smith." He then sought a telephone booth.

"Hello.  Is this Mr. Silas Osgood?  Yes, I'd like very much to see you. That's very good of
you to say so.  Yes, last evening--I called for a few minutes.  Can't you take lunch with me
at the Touraine?  Good--in about half an hour."

It was a very cordial meeting between the two, and when they sat down to luncheon in a peaceful
corner where their talk would be uninterrupted, Mr. Osgood was more alert and cheerful than
the veteran underwriter had been since the bleak day when O'Connor and the Eastern Conference
moved on Boston; and as Smith went on, his companion's manifest pleasure increased.

"So I think I am justified in saying that even if the courts do not absolutely hold the separation
feature illegal, they will come so close to it that the Superintendent of Insurance will take
a hand," Smith said.  "I'm mighty glad you didn't sell your interest in the agency, for I believe
that things are going to break our way, and when it's possible for the Guardian to go back
into the Osgood agency, I hope to see Silas Osgood in command--opening the front door to let
us in."

"I'll open the door to admit myself and the Guardian together--I'd rather have it that way,"
the older man replied.  "But I hope that this can be accomplished before very long.  I dislike
idleness intensely. When I was in the harness I often thought I had too much to do; but any
excess amount is better than nothing at all.  How long do you suppose all this will take? 
I expect to spend the summer in Europe--do you suppose that it can be fought out within a year?"

"It's rather hard to say," the other responded.  "There appears to be no clear-cut law under
which we can proceed directly, as we did in Pennsylvania.  I suppose you heard that the Attorney-General
over there had taken up our battle for us.  Still, it ought not to take a year here.  Meanwhile
my hands are rather tied here in Boston.  I can't appoint another agent, because it wouldn't
be fair to close up his agency and go over to Silas Osgood and Company when you were ready
to take us.  Meanwhile the Guardian will be doing no business at all in Boston, and I hate
to be getting no premium income whatever out of the town, but I guess I'll have to be patient.
You haven't any one to suggest, have you, that would give us exclusively a suburban business
so that he wouldn't interfere with your congested district lines when we appointed you?"

Mr. Osgood reflected for a moment.

"That sounds like a difficult question to answer," he said; "but I believe I know such a man.
There is a very live young fellow named Greenwood who has a nice business out toward Dorchester
mostly.  He's a sort of protégé of mine, and if I had remained in the agency I think I should
have offered him a junior partnership.  He doesn't represent any company except as a sub-agent.
If you appointed him, his risks wouldn't conflict at all with ours later on.  Perhaps, even,
I might carry out my original intention toward him."

"An excellent idea," Smith said.  "When do you suppose we could go and see this Mr. Greenwood?"

"I think," said Silas Osgood, with a smile, "that we could go this afternoon."

CHAPTER XVII

Mr. James Wintermuth had just finished a luncheon of such unusual proportions that evidently
it had attracted the respectful attention of the Down Town Association's waiter who usually
served him, and who of late had grown almost to despair of being able ever again to bring his
client anything more substantial than a half portion of crab-flake salad.

"Nice day, sir," the waiter suggestively remarked, as if Mr. Wintermuth's appetite were in
some curious way governed wholly by the vagaries of the weather.

"Yes," agreed his patron, with almost a touch of embarrassment; "a very nice day, indeed."

Mr. Wintermuth was feeling uncommonly cheerful, and the cause of it was quite largely the oblong
yellow missive then reposing on his desk.  He knew he would have to wait a day or two before
he could learn the details of Smith's doings in Boston, but it was at least a relief to feel
that some decisive action was being taken.

When, two days later, Smith returned, his report seemed eminently satisfactory to his chief.

"I'm not a lawyer, so I can't tell you exactly what kind of court proceedings will have to
be brought," he said; "but so far as I can make out it's a sort of action for conspiracy against
the companies belonging to the Eastern Conference, joining them all as defendants. The Insurance
Commissioner of Massachusetts comes in, too, in some way, and I believe that under the state
law as recently amended we will finally win out."

"Finally!" said the President.  "That sounds rather remote.  How long do you expect it will
take?  Protracted litigation is both expensive and unsatisfactory."

"Oh, it won't cost us anything; the Insurance Commissioner nominally brings the suit, as I
understand it, and I'm sure it won't take more than a year.  But in the meantime I feel positive
that we will suffer no further annoyance or injury in New England.  We've already lost about
all the agents that could be shaken loose, and with this suit pending I fancy the Conference
will go very slow before forcing the issue further--for fear of civil actions for damages from
all the non-Conference companies if we win our conspiracy case."

"That sounds reasonable."

"It is.  So I really think we need not worry much about New England for a while.  I fancy I
managed to stiffen up the backbone of Crowell, who's a first-class field man, and I'm going
to circularize the local agents, telling them the facts."

Mr. Wintermuth looked at Smith thoughtfully.

"All right, Richard; go ahead," he said.  "I am quite content to leave it in your hands."

"Now for New York," pursued Smith, inclining his head in acknowledgment of his superior's commendation.
"In New York State we shall have to accomplish our purpose mainly by means of bluffing, to
put it plainly, for I can't find any law that covers the point; but perhaps we won't need a
law.  Mr. Ferguson, the Superintendent of Insurance, is, as you know, not unalterably opposed
to being nominated for Governor this fall.  He has listened before now to the siren voice,
and Albany seems very attractive to him.  And this is an anti-combination year.  I don't think
he'll need much persuasion to be convinced that much credit and capital will be gained by a
spirited attack on something that more than faintly resembles a trust."

"That correctly describes the Eastern Conference, in its present activities," said Mr. Wintermuth.
"But what do you expect Mr. Ferguson to do?"

"Oh, I haven't any idea," said his subordinate, with a smile.  "He hasn't any law on his side;
but as you are aware, his office carries with it very arbitrary and radical powers, and if
he thinks that he can climb into the Governor's chair over the prostrate body of the Eastern
Conference, he'll find some excuse to sandbag it and make it a stepping stone.  He'll do something
all right, or I miss my guess."

"Probably you are right, Richard."

"The next thing I do will be to go up to see him and talk it over.  New York's an important
factor with us to-day.  With a little watching Pennsylvania and Maryland will take care of
themselves.  New England is safe to hold its own, I think.  I believe we've covered the high
spots, sir."

"How long have you been Vice-President of the Guardian, Mr. Smith, if I may ask?" inquired
the head of the institution in a tone of affectionate raillery mixed with genuine pride.

"Oh, about a week," said Smith, laughing; "but I've been sitting around so long, spoiling for
a chance to do something, that there's several months' stored-up energy which I've got to get
out of my system."

"Well, I hope you get around to the local department pretty soon," said Mr. Wintermuth.  "Poor
Cuyler has worried himself nearly sick, and the city business has been hit very hard; premiums
are away off for the year so far."

"Yes; I want to talk that over with you, too.  But I think Mr. Ferguson comes first."

"Very well, Richard; use your own judgment," said his chief.  "So far, I think you have done
good work for us."

"I'm glad you're satisfied, and I'll try to keep it up, I assure you," said Smith.  He hesitated
a moment.  "But there is one phase of all this thing which I haven't forgotten and which I
don't think you have, either, and that is how we came originally to be dragged out of the Conference
and exposed to all these attacks."

"I have not forgotten it," said Mr. Wintermuth, stiffly; "but I think there can be no advantage
in discussing it."

