But these thirty or more patterns do not exhaust the interest of the Quinta. There are also
some very fine tile pictures, especially one of 'Susanna and the Elders,' and a fragment of
the 'Quarrel of the Lapithæ and Centaurs' in the pavilion overlooking the tank. 'Susanna and
the Elders' is particularly good, and is interesting in that on a small temple in the background
is the date 1565.[27] Rather later seem the five river gods in the garden loggia of the house,
for their strapwork frames of blue and yellow can hardly be as early as 1565; besides, a fragment
with similar details has on it the letters TOS, no doubt the end of the signature 'Francisco
Mattos,' who also signed some beautiful tiles in the church of São Roque at Lisbon in 1584.

It is known that the entrance to the convent of the Madre de Deus at Lisbon was ornamented
by Dom Manoel with some della Robbia reliefs, two of which are now in the Museum.

On the west side of the tank at Bacalhôa is a wall nearly a hundred feet long, and framed with
tiles. In the centre the water flows into the tank from a dolphin above which is an empty niche.
There are two other empty niches, one inscribed Tempora labuntur more fluentis aquae, and the
other Vivite victuri moneo mors omnibus instat. These niches stand between four medallions
of della Robbia ware, some eighteen inches across. Two are heads of men and two of women, only
one of each being glazed. The glazed woman's head is white, with yellow hair, a sky-blue veil,
and a loose reddish garment all on a blue ground. All are beautifully modelled and are surrounded
by glazed wreaths of fruit and leaves. These four must certainly have come from the della Robbia
factory in Florence, for they, and especially the surrounding wreaths, are exactly like what
may be seen so often in North Italy.

Much less good are six smaller medallions, four of which are much destroyed, on the wall leading
north from the tank to a pavilion named the Casa da India, so called from the beautiful Indian
hangings with which its walls were covered by Albuquerque. In them the modelling is less good
and the wreaths are more conventional.

Lastly, between the tank and the house are twelve others, one under each of the globes, which,
flanked by obelisks, crown the wall. They are all of the same size, but in some the head and
the blue backing are not in one place. The wreaths also are inferior even to those of the last
six, though the actual heads are rather better. They all represent famous men of old, from
Alexander the Great to Nero. Two are broken; that of Augustus is signed with what may perhaps
be read Doñus Vilhelmus, 'Master William,' who unfortunately is otherwise unknown.

It seems impossible now to tell where these were made, but they were certainly inspired by
the four genuine Florentine medallions on the tank wall, and if by a native artist are of great
interest as showing how men so skilled in making beautiful tiles could also copy the work of
a great Italian school with considerable success.

Of the third class of tiles, those where the patterns are merely painted and not raised, there
are few examples at Bacalhôa--except when some restoration has been done--for this manner of
tile-painting did not become common till the next century, but there are a few with very good
patterns in the house itself, and close by, the walls of the church of São Simão are covered
with excellent examples. These were put up by the heads of a brotherhood in 1648, and are almost
exactly the same as those in the church of Alvito; even the small saintly figures over the
arches occur in both. The pattern of Alvito is one of the finest, and is found again at Santarem
in the church of the Marvilla, where the lower tiles are all of singular beauty and splendid
colouring, blue and yellow on a white ground. Other beautiful tiled interiors are those of
the Matriz at Caldas da Rainha, and at Caminha on the Minho. Without seeing these tiled churches
it is impossible to realise how beautiful they really are, and how different are these tiles
from all modern ones, whose hard smooth glaze and mechanical perfection make them cold and
anything but pleasing. (Figs. 10 and 11, frontispiece.)

Besides the picture-tiles at Bacalhôa there are some very good examples of similar work in
the semicircular porch which surrounds the small round chapel of Sant' Amaro at Alcantara close
to Lisbon. The chapel was built in 1549, and the tiles added about thirty years later. Here,
as in the Dominican nunnery at Elvas, and in some exquisite framings and steps at Bacalhôa,
the pattern and architectural details are spread all over the tiles, often making a rich framing
to a bishop or saint. Some are not at all unlike Francisco Mattos' work in São Roque, which
is also well worthy of notice.

Of the latest pictorial tiles, the finest are perhaps those in the church of São João Evangelista
at Evora, which tell of the life of San Lorenzo Giustiniani, Venetian Patriarch, and which
are signed and dated 'Antoninus ab Oliva fecit 1711.'[28] But these blue picture-tiles are
almost the commonest of all, and were made and used up to the end of the century.[29]

Now although some of the patterns used are found also in Spain, as at Seville or at Valencia,
and although tiles from Seville were used at Thomar by João de Castilho, still it is certain
that many were of home manufacture.

As might be expected from the patterns and technique of the oldest tiles, the first mentioned
tilers are Moors.[30] Later there were as many as thirteen tilemakers in Lisbon, and many were
made in the twenty-eight ovens of louça de Veneza, 'Venetian faience.' The tiles used by Dom
Manoel at Cintra came from Belem, while as for the picture tiles the novices of the order of
São Thiago at Palmella formed a school famous for such work.

Indeed it may be said that tilework is the most characteristic feature of Portuguese buildings,
and that to it many a church, otherwise poor and even mean, owes whatever interest or beauty
it possesses. Without tiles, rooms like the Sala das Sereias or the Sala dos Arabes would be
plain whitewashed featureless apartments, with them they have a charm and a romance not easy
to find anywhere but in the East.

CHAPTER I

THE EARLY BUILDINGS IN THE NORTH

Portugal, like all the other Christian kingdoms of the Peninsula, having begun in the north,
first as a county or march land subject to the king of Galicia or of Leon, and later, since
1139, as an independent kingdom, it is but natural to find nearly all the oldest buildings
in those parts of the country which, earliest freed from the Moslem dominion, formed the original
county. The province of Entre Minho-e-Douro has always been held by the Portuguese to be the
most beautiful part of their country, and it would be difficult to find anywhere valleys more
beautiful than those of the Lima, the Cavado, or the Ave. Except the mountain range of the
Marão which divides this province from the wilder and drier Tras-os-Montes, or the Gerez which
separates the upper waters of the Cavado and of the Lima, and at the same time forms part of
the northern frontier of Portugal, the hills are nowhere of great height. They are all well
covered with woods, mostly of pine, and wherever a piece of tolerably level ground can be found
they are cultivated with the care of a garden. All along the valleys, and even high up the
hillsides among the huge granite boulders, there is a continuous succession of small villages.
Many of these, lying far from railway or highroad, can only be reached by narrow and uneven
paths, along which no carriage can pass except the heavy creaking carts drawn by the beautiful
large long-horned oxen whose broad and splendidly carved yokes are so remarkable a feature
of the country lying between the Vouga and the Cavado.[31] In many of these villages may still
be seen churches built soon after the expulsion of the Moors, and long before the establishment
of the Monarchy. Many of them originally belonged to some monastic body. Of these the larger
part have been altered and spoiled during the seventeenth or eighteenth centuries, when, after
the expulsion of the Spaniards, the country began again to grow rich from trade with the recovered
colony of Brazil. Still enough remains to show that these old romanesque churches differed
in no very striking way from the general romanesque introduced into Northern Spain from France,
except that as a rule they were smaller and ruder, and were but seldom vaulted.

That these early churches should be rude is not surprising. They are built of hard grey granite.
When they were built the land was still liable to incursions, and raids from the south, such
as the famous foray of Almansor, who harried and burned the whole land not sparing even the
shrine of Santiago far north in Galicia. Their builders were still little more than a race
of hardy soldiers with no great skill in the working of stone. Only towards the end of the
twelfth century, long after the border had been advanced beyond the Mondego and after Coimbra
had become the capital of a new county, did the greater security as well as the very fine limestone
of the lower Mondego valley make it possible for churches to be built at Coimbra which show
a marked advance in construction as well as in elaboration of detail. Between the Mondego and
the Tagus there are only four or five churches which can be called romanesque, and south of
the Tagus only the cathedral of Evora, begun about 1186 and consecrated some eighteen years
later, is romanesque, constructively at least, though all its arches have become pointed.

But to return north to Entre Minho-e-Douro, where the oldest and most numerous romanesque churches
exist and where three types may be seen. Of these the simplest and probably the oldest is that
of an aisleless nave with simple square chancel. In the second the nave has one or two aisles,
and at the end of these aisles a semicircular apse, but with the chancel still square: while
in the third and latest the plan has been further developed and enlarged, though even here
the main chancel generally still remains square.

[Sidenote: Villarinho.]

There yet exist, not far from Oporto, a considerable number of examples of the first type,
though several by their pointed doorways show that they actually belong, in part at least,
to the period of the Transition. One of the best-preserved is the small church of Villarinho,
not far from Vizella in the valley of the Ave. Originally the church of a small monastery,
it has long been the parish church of a mountain hamlet, and till it was lately whitewashed
inside had scarcely been touched since the day it was finished some time before the end of
the twelfth century. It consists of a rather high and narrow nave, a square-ended chancel,
and to the west a lower narthex nearly as large as the chancel. The church is lit by very small
windows which are indeed mere slits, and by a small round opening in the gable above the narthex.[32]
The narthex is entered by a perfectly plain round-headed door with strong impost and drip-mould,
while above the corbels which once carried the roof of a lean-to porch, a small circle enclosing
a rude unglazed quatrefoil serves as the only window. The door leading from the narthex to
the nave is much more elaborate; of four orders of mouldings, the two inner are plain, the
two outer have a big roll at the angle, and all are slightly pointed. Except the outermost,
which springs from square jambs, they all stand on the good romanesque capitals of six shafts,
four round and two octagonal. (Fig. 12.)

[Sidenote: São Miguel, Guimarães.]

Exactly similar in plan but without a narthex is the church of São Miguel at Guimarães, famous
as being the church in which Affonso Henriques, the first king of Portugal, was baptized in
1111. It claims to have been the Primaz or chief church of the whole archdiocese of Braga.
It is, like Villarinho, a small and very plain church built of great blocks of granite, with
a nave and square chancel lit by narrow window slits. On the north side there are a plain square-headed
doorway and two bold round arches let into the outer wall over the graves of some great men
of these distant times. The drip-mould of one of these arches is carved with a shallow zigzag
ornament which is repeated on the western door, a door whose slightly pointed arch may mean
a rather later date than the rest of the church. The wooden roof, as at Villarinho, has a very
gentle slope with eaves of considerable projection resting on very large plain corbels, while
other corbels lower down the wall seem to show that at one time a veranda or cloister ran round
three sides of the building. The whole is even ruder and simpler than Villarinho, but has a
certain amount of dignity due to the great size of the stones of which it is built and to the
severe plainness of the walling.

[Sidenote: Cedo Feita, Oporto.]

Only one other church of this type need be described, and that because it is the only one which
is vaulted throughout. This is the small church of São Martim de Cedo Feita or 'Early made'
at Oporto itself. It is so called because it claims, wrongly indeed, to be the very church
which Theodomir, king of the Suevi, who then occupied the north-west of the Peninsula, hurriedly
built in 559 A.D. This he did in order that, having been converted from the Arian beliefs he
shared with all the Germanic invaders of the Empire, he might there be baptized into the Catholic
faith, and also that he might provide a suitable resting-place for some relic of St. Martin
of Tours which had been sent to him as a mark of Orthodox approval. This story[33] is set forth
in a long inscription on the tympanum of the west door stating that it was put there in 1767,
a copy taken in 1557 from an old stone having then been found in the archives of the church.
As a matter of fact no part of the church can be older than the twelfth century, and it has
been much altered, probably at the date when the inscription was cut. It is a small building,
a barrel-vaulted nave and chancel, with a door on the north side and a larger one to the west
now covered by a large porch. The six capitals of this door are very like those at Villarinho,
but the moulded arches are round and not as there pointed.

Other churches of this type are Gandara and Boelhe near Penafiel, and Eja not far off--a building
of rather later date with a fine pointed chancel arch elaborately carved with foliage--São
Thiago d'Antas, near Familicão, a slightly larger church with good capitals to the chancel
arch, a good south door and another later west door with traceried round window above;

and São Torquato, near Guimarães, rather larger, having once had transepts of which one survives,
with square chancel and square chapels to the east; one of the simplest of all having no ornament
beyond the corbel table and the small slitlike windows.

South of the Douro, but still built of granite, are a group of three or four small churches
at Trancoso. Another close to Guarda has a much richer corbel table with a large ball ornament
on the cornice and a round window filled with curiously built-up tracery above the plain, round-arched
west door, while further south on the castle hill at Leiria are the ruins of the small church
of São Pedro built of fine limestone with a good west door.

[Sidenote: Aguas Santas.]

Of the second and rather larger type there are fewer examples still remaining, and of these
perhaps the best is the church of Aguas Santas some seven miles north-east of Oporto. Originally
the church consisted of a nave with rectangular chancel and a north aisle with an eastern apse
roofed with a semi-dome. Later a tower with battlemented top and low square spire was built
at the west end of the aisle, and some thirty years ago another aisle was added on the south
side. As in most of the smaller churches the chancel is lower than the nave, leaving room above
its roof for a large round window, now filled up except for a small traceried circle in the
centre. The most highly decorated part is the chancel, which like all the rest of the church
has a good corbel table, and about two-thirds of the way up a string course richly covered
with billet moulding. Interrupting this on the south side are two round-headed windows, still
small but much larger than the slits found in the older churches. In each case, in a round-headed
opening there stand two small shafts with bases and elaborately carved capitals but without
any abaci, supporting a large roll moulding, and these are all repeated inside at the inner
face of a deep splay. In one of these windows not only are the capitals covered with intertwined
ribbon-work, but each shaft is covered with interknotted circles enclosing flowers, and there
is a band of interlacing work round the head of the actual window opening. Inside the church
has been more altered. Formerly the aisle was separated from the nave by two arches, but when
the south aisle was built the central pier was taken out and the two arches thrown into one
large and elliptical arch, but the capitals of the chancel arch and the few others that remain
are all well wrought and well designed. The west door is a good simple example of the first
pointed period, with plain moulded arches and shafts which bear simple French-looking capitals.
Other churches of the same class are those of São Christovão do Rio Mau not far from Villo
do Conde, and São Pedro de Rates, a little further up the Ave at the birthplace of the first
bishop of Braga and earliest martyr of Portugal. São Pedro is a little later, as the aisle
arches are all pointed, and is a small basilica of nave and aisles with short transepts, chancel
and eastern chapels.

[Sidenote: Villar de Frades.]

The two earliest examples of the third and most highly developed type, the church of Villar
de Frades and the cathedral of Braga, have unfortunately both suffered so terribly, the one
from destruction and the other from rebuilding, that not much has been left to show what they
were originally like--barely enough to make it clear that they were much more elaborately decorated,
and that their carved work was much better wrought than in any of the smaller churches already
mentioned. A short distance to the south of the river Cavado and about half-way between Braga
and Barcellos, in a well-watered and well-wooded region, there existed from very early Christian
times a monastery called Villar, and later Villar de Frades. During the troubles and disorders
which followed the Moslem invasion, this Benedictine monastery had fallen into complete decay
and so remained till it was restored in 1070 by Godinho Viegas. Although again deserted some
centuries later and refounded in 1425 as the mother house of a new order--the Loyos--the fifteenth-century
church was so built as to leave at least a part of the front of the old ruined church standing
between itself and the monastic building, as well as the ruins of an apse behind. Probably
this old west front was the last part of Godinho's church to be built, but it is certainly
more or less contemporary with some portions of the cathedral of Braga.

At some period, which the legend leaves quite uncertain, one of the monks of this monastery
was one day in the choir at matins, when they came to that Psalm where it is said that 'a thousand
years in the sight of God are but as yesterday when it is gone,' and the old monk wondered
greatly and began to think what that could mean. When matins were over he remained praying
as was his wont, and begged Our Lord to give him some understanding of that verse. Then there
appeared to him a little bird which, singing most sweetly, flew this way and that, and so little
by little drew him towards a wood which grew near the monastery, and there rested on a tree
while the servant of God stood below to listen. After what seemed to the monk a short time
it took flight, to the great sorrow of God's servant, who said, 'Bird of my Soul, where art
thou gone so soon?' He waited, and when he saw that it did not return he went back to the monastery
thinking it still that same morning on which he had come out after matins. When he arrived
he found the door, through which he had come, built up and a new one opened in another place.
The porter asked who he was and what he wanted, and he answered, 'I am the sacristan who a
few hours ago went out, and now returning find all changed.' He gave too the names of the Abbot
and of the Prior, and wondered much that the porter still would not let him in, and seemed
not to remember these names. At last he was led to the Abbot, but they did not know one another,
so that the good monk was all confused and amazed at so strange an event. Then the Abbot, enlightened
of God, sent for the annals and histories of the order, found there the names the old man had
given, so making it clear that more than three hundred years had passed since he had gone out.
He told them all that had happened to him, was received as a brother; and after praising God
for the great marvel which had befallen him, asked for the sacraments and soon passed from
this life in great peace.[34]

Whether the ruined west front of the older church be that which existed when the bird flew
out through the door or not, it is or has been of very considerable beauty. Built, like everything
else in the north, of granite, all that is now left is a high wall of carefully wrought stone.
Below is a fine round arched door of considerable size, now roughly blocked up. It has three
square orders covered with carving and a plain inner one. First is a wide drip-mould carved
on the outer side with a zigzag threefold ribbon, and on the inner with three rows of what
looks like a rude attempt to copy the classic bead-moulding; then the first order, of thirteen
voussoirs, each with the curious figure of a strangely dressed man or with a distorted monster.
This with the drip-mould springs from a billet-moulded abacus resting on broad square piers.
Of the two inner carved orders, the outer is covered on both faces with innumerable animals
and birds, and the other with a delicate pattern of interlacing bands. These two spring from
strange square abaci resting on the carved capitals of round shafts, two on each side. A few
feet above the door runs a billet-moulded string course, and two or three feet higher another
and slighter course. On this stands a large window of two orders. Of these the outer covered
with animals springs from shafts and capitals very like those of the doorway, and the inner
has a billet-moulded edge and an almost Celtic ornament on the face. Now whether Villar be
older than the smaller buildings in the neighbourhood or not, it is undoubtedly quite different
not only in style but in execution. It is not only much larger and higher, but it is better
built and the carving is finer and more carefully wrought. (Fig. 13.)

It is known that the great cathedral of Santiago in Galicia was begun in 1078, just about the
time Villar must have been building, and Santiago is an almost exact copy in granite of what
the great abbey church of S. Sernin at Toulouse was intended to be, so that it may be assumed
that Bernardo who built the cathedral was, if not a native of Toulouse, at any rate very well
acquainted with what was being done there. If, then, a native of Languedoc was called in to
plan so important a church in Galicia, it is not unlikely that other foreigners were also employed
in the county of Portugal--at that time still a part of Galicia; and in fact many churches
in the south-west of what is now France have doorways and windows whose general design is very
like that at Villar de Frades, if allowance be made for the difference of material, granite
here, fine limestone there, and for a comparative want of skill in the workmen.[35]

[Sidenote: Sé, Braga.]

Probably these foreigners were not invited to Portugal for the sake of the church of a remote
abbey like Villar, but to work at the metropolitan cathedral of Braga. The see of Braga is
said to have been founded by São Pedro de Rates, a disciple of St. James himself, and in consequence
of so distinguished an origin its archbishops claim the primacy not only of all Portugal, but
even of all the Spains, a claim which is of course disputed by the patriarch of Lisbon, not
to speak of the archbishops of Toledo and of Tarragona. However that may be, the cathedral
of Braga is not now, and can never have been, quite worthy of such high pretensions. It is
now a church with a nave and aisles of six bays, a transept with four square chapels to the
east, a chancel projecting beyond the chapels, and at the west two towers with the main door
between and a fine porch beyond.

Count Henry of Burgundy married Dona Theresa and received the earldom of Portugal from his
father-in-law, Alfonso VI. of Castile and Leon, in 1095, and he and his wife rebuilt the cathedral--where
they now lie buried--before the end of the century. By that time it may well have become usual,
if the churches were important, to call in a foreigner to oversee its erection. Of the original
building little now remains but the plan and two doorways, the chancel having been rebuilt
and the porch added in the sixteenth, and the whole interior beplastered and bepainted in the
worst possible style in the seventeenth, century. Of the two doors the western has been very
like that at Villar. It has only two orders left, of which the outer, though under a deep arch,
has a billet-moulded drip-mould, and its voussoirs each carved with a figure on the outer and
delicate flutings on the under side, while the inner has on both faces animals and monsters
which, better wrought than those at Villar, are even more like so many in the south-west of
France. The other doorway, on the south side next the south-west tower, is far better preserved.
It has three shafts on each side, all with good capitals and abaci, from which spring two carved
and one plain arch. The outer has a rich drip-mould covered with a curious triple arrangement
of circles, has flutings on the one face and a twisting ribbon on the other, while the next
has leaf flutings on both faces, and both a roll-moulding on the angle. The inner order is
quite plain, but the tympanum has in the centre a circle enclosing a cross with expanding arms,
the spaces between the arms and the circle being pierced and the whole surrounded with intertwining
ribbons.

[Sidenote: Sé, Oporto.]

Another foundation of Count Henry's was the cathedral of Oporto, which, judging from its plan,
must have been very like that of Braga, but it has been so horribly transformed during the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries that nothing now remains of the original building but
part of the walls; for the fine western rose window must have been inserted about the middle
of the thirteenth century.

[Sidenote: Paço de Souza.]

Except the tragedy of Inez de Castro, there is no story in Portuguese history more popular
or more often represented in the engravings which adorn a country inn dining-room than that
of the surrender of Egas Moniz to Alfonso VII. of Castile and Leon, when his pupil Affonso
Henriques, beginning to govern for himself, refused to fulfil the agreement[36] whereby Egas
had induced Alfonso to raise the siege of the castle of Guimarães. And it is the fact that
the church of São Salvador at Paço de Souza contains his tomb, which adds not a little to the
interest of the best-preserved of the churches of the third type. Egas Moniz died in 1144,
and at least the eastern part of the church may have existed before then. The chancel, where
the tomb first stood, is rather long and has as usual a square east end while the two flanking
chapels are apsidal. The rest of the church, which may be a little later, as all the larger
arches are pointed, consists of a nave and aisles of three bays, a transept, and a later tower
standing on the westernmost bay of the south aisle. The constructive scheme of the inside is
interesting, though a modern boarded vault has done its best to hide what it formerly was.
The piers are cross-shaped with a big semicircular shaft on each face, and a large roll-moulding
on each angle which is continued up above the abacus to form an outer order for both the aisle
and the main arches, for large arches are carried across the nave and aisles from north to
south as if it had been intended to roof the church with an ordinary groined vault. However,
it is clear that this was not really the case, and indeed it could hardly have been so as practically
no vaults had yet been built in the country except a few small barrels. Indeed, though later
the Portuguese became very skilful at vaulting, they were at no time fond of a nave with high
groined vault upheld by flying buttresses, and low aisles, for there seems to have been never
more than three or four in the country, one of which, the choir of Lisbon Cathedral, fell in
1755. Instead of groined vaults, barrel vaults continued to be used where a stone roof was
wanted, even till the middle of the fourteenth century and later, long after they had been
given up elsewhere, but usually a roof of wood was thought sufficient, sometimes resting, as
was formerly the case here, on transverse arches thrown across the nave and aisles. This was
the system adopted in the cathedrals of Braga and of Oporto before they were altered, in this
church and in that of Pombeiro not far off, and in that of Bayona near Vigo in Galicia.[37]
(Fig. 14.)

All the details are extremely refined--almost Byzantine in their delicacy--especially the capitals,
and the abaci against the walls, which are carried along as a beautiful string course from
pier to pier. The bases too are all carved, some with animals' heads and some with small seated
figures at the angles, while the faces of the square blocks below are covered with beautiful
leaf ornament. But the most curious thing in the whole church is the tomb of Egas Moniz himself.[38]
(Fig. 15.) Till the eighteenth century it stood in the middle of the chancel, then it was cut
in two and put half against the wall of the south aisle, and half against that of the north.
It has on it three bands of ornament. Of these the lowest is a rudely carved chevron with what
are meant for leaves between, the next, a band of small figures including Egas on his deathbed
and what is supposed to be three of his children riding side by side on an elongated horse
with a camel-like head, and that on the top, larger figures showing him starting on his fateful
journey to the court of Alfonso of Castile and Leon and parting from his weeping wife. Although
very rude,--all the horses except that of Egas himself having most unhorselike heads and legs,--some
of the figures are carved with a certain not unpleasing vigour, especially that of a spear-bearing
attendant who marches with swinging skirts behind his master's horse. Outside the most remarkable
feature is the fine west door, with its eight shafts, four on each side, some round and some
octagonal, the octagonal being enriched with an ornament like the English dog-tooth, with their
finely carved cubical capitals and rich abaci, and with the four orders of mouldings, two of
which are enriched with ball ornament. Outside, instead of a drip-mould, runs a broad band
covered with plaited ribbon. On the tympanum, which rests on corbels supported on one side
by the head of an ox and on the other by that of a man, are a large circle enclosing a modern
inscription, and two smaller circles in which are the symbols of the Sun and Moon upheld by
curious little half-figures. The two apses east of the transept are of the pattern universal
in Southern Europe, being divided into three equal parts by half-shafts with capitals and crowned
with an overhanging corbel table.

[Sidenote: Pombeiro.]

The abbey church of Pombeiro, near Guimarães, must once have been very similar to São Salvador
at Paço de Souza, except that the nave is a good deal longer, and that it once had a large
narthex, destroyed about a hundred and fifty years ago by an abbot who wished to add to the
west front the two towers and square spires which still exist. So full was this narthex of
tombs that from the arms on them it had become a sort of Heralds' College for the whole of
the north of Portugal, but now only two remain in the shallow renaissance porch between the
towers. As at Paço de Souza, the oldest part of the church is the east end, where the two apses
flanking the square chancel remain unaltered. They are divided as usual by semicircular shafts
bearing good romanesque capitals, and crowned by a cornice of three small arches to each division,
each cut out of one stone, and resting on corbels and on the capitals. Of the west front only
the fine doorway is left unchanged; pointed in shape, but romanesque in detail; having three
of the five orders, carved one with grotesque animals and two with leafage. Above the shallow
porch is a large round window with renaissance tracery, but retaining its original framing
of a round arch resting on tall shafts with romanesque capitals. Everything else has been altered,
the inside being covered with elaborate rococo painted and gilt plaster-work, and the outside
disfigured by shapeless rococo windows.

Although some, and especially the last two of the buildings described above belong, in part
at least, to the time of transition from romanesque to first pointed, and although the group
of churches at Coimbra are wholly romanesque, it would be better to have done with all that
can be ascribed to a period older than the beginning of the Portuguese monarchy before following
Affonso Henriques in his successful efforts to extend his kingdom southwards to the Tagus.

Although Braga was the ecclesiastical capital of their fief,

[Sidenote: Guimarães, Castle.]

Count Henry and his wife lived usually at Guimarães, a small town some fifteen miles to the
south. Towards the beginning of the tenth century there died D. Hermengildo Gonçalves Mendes,
count of Tuy and Porto, who by his will left Vimaranes, as it was then called, to his widow,
Mumadona. About 927 she there founded a monastery and built a castle for its defence, and this
castle, which had twice suffered from Moslem invaders, was restored or rebuilt by Count Henry,
and there in 1111 was born his son Affonso Henriques, who was later to become the first king
of the new and independent kingdom of Portugal. Henry died soon after, in 1114, at Astorga,
perhaps poisoned by his sister-in-law, Urraca, queen of Castile and Leon, and for several years
his widow governed his lands as guardian for their son.

Thirteen years after Count Henry's death, in 1127, the castle was the scene of the famous submission
of Egas Moniz to the Spanish king, and this, together with the fact that Affonso Henriques
was born there, has given it a place in the romantic history of Portugal which is rather higher
than what would seem due to a not very important building. The castle stands to the north of
the town on a height which commands all the surrounding country. Its walls, defended at intervals
by square towers, are built among and on the top of enormous granite boulders, and enclose
an irregular space in which stands the keep. The inhabited part of the castle ran along the
north-western wall where it stood highest above the land below, but it has mostly perished,
leaving only a few windows which are too large to date from the beginning of the twelfth century.
The square keep stands within a few feet of the western wall, rises high above it, and was
reached by a drawbridge from the walk on the top of the castle walls. Its wooden floors are
gone, its windows are mere slits, and like the rest of the castle it owes its distinctive appearance
to the battlements which crown the whole building, and whose merlons are plain blocks of stone
brought to a sharp point at the top. This feature, which is found in all the oldest Portuguese
castles such as that of Almourol on an island in the Tagus near Abrantes, and even on some
churches such as the old cathedral at Coimbra and the later church at Leça de Balio, is one
of the most distinct legacies left by the Moors: here the front of each merlon is perpendicular
to the top, but more usually it is finished in a small sharp pyramid.

[Sidenote: Church.]

The other foundation of Mumadona, the monastery of Nossa Senhora and São Salvador in the town
of Guimarães, had since her day twice suffered destruction at the hands of the Moors, once
in 967 when the castle was taken by Al-Coraxi, emir of Seville, and thirty years later when
Almansor[39] in 998 swept northwards towards Galicia, sacking and burning as he went. At the
time when Count Henry and Dona Teresa were living in the castle, the double Benedictine monastery
for men and women had fallen into decay, and in 1109 Count Henry got a Papal Bull changing
the foundation into a royal collegiate church under a Dom Prior, and at once began to rebuild
it, a restoration which was not finished till 1172. Since then the church has been wholly and
the cloisters partly rebuilt by João I. at the end of the fourteenth century, but some arches
of the cloister and the entrance to the chapter-house may very likely date from Count Henry's
time. These cloisters occupy a very unusual position. Starting from the north transept they
run round the back of the chancel, along the south side of the church outside the transept,
and finally join the church again near the west front. The large round arches have chamfered
edges; the columns are monoliths of granite about eighteen inches thick; the bases and the
abaci all romanesque in form, though many of the capitals, as can be seen from their shape
and carving, are of the fourteenth or even fifteenth century, showing how Juan Garcia de Toledo,
who rebuilt the church for Dom João I., tried, in restoring the cloister, to copy the already
existing features and as usual betrayed the real date by his later details. A few of the old
capitals still remain, and are of good romanesque form such as may be seen in any part of southern
France or in Spain.[40] To the chapter-house, a plain oblong room with a panelled wood ceiling,
there leads, from the east cloister walk, an unaltered archway, flanked as usual by two openings,
one on either side. The doorway arch is plain, slightly horseshoe in shape, and is carried
by short strong half-columns whose capitals are elaborately carved with animals and twisting
branches, the animals, as is often the case,

being set back to back at the angles so that one head does duty for each pair. Above is a large
hollow hood-mould exactly similar to those which enclose the side windows. The two lights of
these windows are separated by short coupled shafts whose capitals, derived from the Corinthian
or Composite, have stiff leaves covering the change from the round to the square, and between
them broad tendrils which end in very carefully cut volutes at the angles. The heads themselves
are markedly horseshoe in shape, which at first sight suggests some Moorish influence, but
in everything else the details are so thoroughly Western, and by 1109 such a long time, over
a hundred years, had passed since the Moors had been permanently expelled from that part of
the country, that it were better to see in these horseshoes an unskilled attempt at stilting,
rather than the work of some one familiar with Eastern forms. (Fig. 16.)

CHAPTER II

THE EARLY BUILDINGS IN THE SOUTH

In 1057 Fernando, king of Castile, Leon and Galicia crossed the Douro, took Lamego, where the
lower part of the tower is all that is left of the romanesque cathedral, and is indeed the
only romanesque tower in the country. Vizeu fell soon after, and seven years later he advanced
his borders to the Mondego by the capture of Coimbra. The Mondego, the only large river whose
source and mouth are both in Portugal, long remained the limit of the Christian dominion, and
nearly a hundred years were to pass before any further advance was made. In 1147 Affonso Henriques,
who had but lately assumed the title of king, convinced at last that he was wasting his strength
in trying to seize part of his cousin's dominions of Galicia, determined to turn south and
extend his new kingdom in that direction. Accordingly in March of that year he secretly led
his army against Santarem, one of the strongest of the Moorish cities standing high above the
Tagus on an isolated hill. The vezir, Abu-Zakariah, was surprised before he could provision
the town, so that the garrison were able to offer but a feeble resistance, and the Christians
entered after the attack had lasted only a few days. Before starting the king had vowed that
if successful he would found a monastery in token of his gratitude, and though its vast domestic
buildings are now but barracks and court-houses, the great Cistercian abbey of Alcobaça still
stands to show how well his vow was fulfilled.

Although Santarem was taken in 1147, the first stone of Alcobaça was not laid till 1153, and
the building was carried out very slowly and in a style, imported directly from France, quite
foreign to any previous work in Portugal. It were better, therefore, before coming to this,
the largest church and the richest foundation in the whole country, to have done with the other
churches which though contemporary with Alcobaça are not the work of French but of native workmen,
or at least of such as had not gone further than to Galicia for their models.

[Sidenote: Sé, Lisbon.]

The same year that saw the fall of Santarem saw also the more important capture of Lisbon.
Taken by the Moors in 714, it had long been their capital, and although thrice captured by
the Christians had always been recovered. In this enterprise Affonso Henriques was helped by
a body of Crusaders, mostly English, who sailing from Dartmouth were persuaded by the bishop
of Oporto to begin their Holy War in Portugal, and when Lisbon fell, one of them, Gilbert of
Hastings, was rewarded by being made its first bishop. Of the cathedral, begun three years
later, in 1150, little but the plan of the nave and transept has survived. Much injured by
an earthquake in 1344, the whole choir was rebuilt on a French model by Affonso IV. only to
be again destroyed in 1755. The original plan must have been very like that of Braga, an aisleless
transept, a nave and aisles of six bays, and two square towers beyond with a porch between.
The two towers are now very plain with large belfry windows near the top, but there are traces
here and there of old built-up round-headed openings which show that the walls at least are
really old. The outer arch of the porch has been rebuilt since the earthquake, but the original
door remains inside, with a carved hood-mould, rich abacus, and four orders of mouldings enriched
with small balls in their hollows. The eight plain shafts stand on unusually high pedestals
and have rather long capitals, some carved with flat acanthus leaves and some with small figures
of men and animals.

Like that of the cathedral of Coimbra, which was being built about the same time, the inside
is clearly founded on the great cathedral of Santiago, itself a copy of S. Sernin at Toulouse,
and quite uninfluenced by the French design of Alcobaça. The piers are square with a half-shaft
on each face, the arches are round, and the aisles covered with plain unribbed fourpart vaulting,
while the main aisle is roofed with a round barrel. Instead of the large open gallery, which
at Santiago allows the quadrant vault supporting the central barrel to be seen, there is here
a low blind arcade of small round arches. Unfortunately, when restored after the disaster of
1755 the whole inside was plastered, all the capitals both of the main

piers and of the gallery were converted into a semblance of gilt Corinthian capitals, and large
skylights were cut through the vault. Only the inside of the low octagonal lantern remains
to show that the church must have been at least as interesting, if not more so, than the Sé
Velha or old cathedral at Coimbra. If the nave has suffered such a transformation the fourteenth-century
choir has been even worse treated. The whole upper part, which once was as high as the top
of the lantern, fell and was re-roofed in a most miserable manner, having only the ambulatory
and its chapels uninjured. But these, the cloister and a rather fine chapel to the north-west
of the nave, had better be left for another chapter.[41]

[Sidenote: Sé Velha, Coimbra.]

Smaller but much better preserved than Lisbon Cathedral is the Sé Velha or old cathedral of
Coimbra. According to the local tradition, the cathedral is but a mosque turned into a church
after the Christian conquest, and it may well be that in the time of Dom Sesnando, the first
governor of Coimbra--a Moor who, becoming a Christian, was made count of Coimbra by King Fernando,
and whose tomb, broken open by the French, may still be seen outside the north wall of the
church--the chief mosque of the town was used as the cathedral. But although an Arab inscription[42]
is built into the outer wall of the nave, there can be no doubt that the present building is
as Christian in plan and design as any church can be. If the nave of the cathedral of Lisbon
is like Santiago in construction, the nave here is, on a reduced scale, undoubtedly a copy
of Santiago not only constructively but also in its general details. The piers are shorter
but of the same plan, the great triforium gallery looks towards the nave, as at Santiago and
at Toulouse, by a double opening whose arches spring from single shafts at the sides to rest
on double shafts in the centre, both being enclosed under one larger arch, while the barrel
vault and the supporting vaults of the gallery are exactly similar. Now Santiago was practically
finished in 1128, and there still exists a book called the Livro Preto in which is given a
list of the gifts made by Dom Miguel, who ruled the see of Coimbra from 1162 to 1176, towards
the building and adorning of the church. Nothing is said as to when the church was begun, but
we are told that Dom Miguel gave 124 morabitinos to Master Bernardo[43] who had directed the
building for ten years; the presents too of bread and wine made to his successor Soeiro are
also mentioned, so that it seems probable that the church may have been begun soon after Dom
Miguel became bishop, and that it was finished some time before the end of his episcopate.

Though the nave is like that of Santiago, the transepts and choir are much simpler. There the
transept is long and has an aisle on each side; here it is short and aisleless. There the choir
is deep with a surrounding aisle and radiating chapels, here it is a simple apse flanked by
two smaller apses. Indeed throughout the whole of the Peninsula the French east end was seldom
used except in churches of a distinctly foreign origin, such as Santiago, Leon or Toledo in
Spain, or Alcobaça in Portugal, and so it is natural here to find Bernardo rejecting the elaboration
and difficult construction of his model, and returning to the simpler plan which had already
been so often used in the north. (Fig. 18.)

Inside the piers are square with four half-shafts, one of which runs up in front to carry the
barrel vault, which is about sixty feet high. All the capitals are well carved, and a moulded
string which runs along under the gallery is curiously returned against the vaulting shafts
as if it had once been carried round them and had afterwards been cut off. Almost the only
light in the nave comes from small openings in the galleries, the aisle windows being nearly
all blocked up by later altars, and from a large window at the west end. The transept on the
other hand is very light, with several windows at either end, and eight in the square lantern,
so that the effect is extremely good of the dark nave followed by the brilliant transept and
ending in a great carved and gilt reredos. This reredos, reaching up to the blue-and-gold apse
vault, was given to the cathedral in 1508 by Bishop D. Jorge d'Almeida, and was the work of
'Master Vlimer a Framengo,' that is, a Fleming, and of his partner, João D'ipri, or of Ypres,
two of the many foreigners who at that time worked for King D. Manoel. There are several picturesque
tombs in the church, especially two in the north-east corner of the transept, whose recesses
still retain their original tile decoration. Later tiles still cover the aisle walls and altar
recesses, but beautiful examples of the Mozárabe or Moorish style which once covered the piers
of the nave, as well as the wooden choir gallery with its finely panelled under side, have
been swept away by a recent well-meaning if mistaken restoration. The outside of the church
is more unusual than the inside. The two remaining original apses are much hidden by the sacristy,
built probably by Bishop Jorge de Castello Branco in 1593, but in their details they are greatly
like those of the church of San Isidoro at Leon, and being like it built of fine limestone,
are much more delicately ornamented than are those of any of the granite churches further north.
The side aisles are but little lower than the central aisle or than the transepts, and are
all crowned with battlements very like those on the castle of Guimarães. The buttresses are
only shallow strips, which in the transepts are united by round arches, but in the aisles end
among the battlements in a larger merlon. The west front is the most striking and original
part of the whole church. Below, at the sides, a perfectly plain window lights the aisles,
some feet above it runs a string course, on which stands a small two-light window for the gallery,
flanked by larger blind arches, and then many feet of blank walling ending in battlements.
Between these two aisle ends there projects about ten feet a large doorway or porch. This doorway
is of considerable size; some of its eight shafts are curiously twisted and carved, its capitals
are very refined and elaborate, and its arches well moulded with, as at Lisbon, small bosses
in the hollows. The abacus is plain, and the broad pilasters which carry the outermost order
are beautifully carved on the broader face with a small running pattern of leaves. The same
'black book' which tells of the bishop's gifts to the church, tells how a certain Master Robert
came four times from Lisbon to perfect the work of the door, and how each time he received
seven morabitinos, besides ten for his expenses, as well as bread, wine and meat for his four
apprentices and food for his four asses. It is not often that the name of a man who worked
on a mediæval church has been so preserved, and it is worth noticing that the west door at
Lisbon has on it exactly the same ball ornament as that with which Master Robert and his four
helpers enriched the archway here. Above the door runs an arched corbel table on which stands
the one large window which the church possesses. This window,[44] which is much more like a
door than a window, is deeply recessed within four orders of mouldings, resting on shafts and
capitals, four on each side, all very like the door below. Above, the whole projection is carried
up higher than the battlements in an oblong embattled belfry, having two arched openings in
front and one at the side, added in 1837 to take the place of a detached belfry which once
stood to the south of the church, and to hold some bells brought from Thomar after that rich
convent had been suppressed. (Fig. 19.)

Of the two other doorways, that at the end of the north transept, which has a simple archway
on either side, and is surmounted by an arcade of five arches, has been altered in the early
sixteenth century with good details of the first French renaissance, while the larger doorway
in the third bay of the nave has at the same time been rebuilt as a beautiful three-storied
porch, reaching right up to the battlements. To the south lie the cloisters, added about the
end of the thirteenth century, but now very much mutilated. They are of the usual Portuguese
type of vaulted cloister, a large arch, here pointed, enclosing two round arches below with
a circular opening above.

The central lantern--the only romanesque example surviving except that of Lisbon Cathedral--is
square, and not as there octagonal. It has two round-headed windows on each side whose sills
are but little above the level of the flat roof--for, like almost all vaulted churches in Portugal,
the roofs are flat and paved--and is now crowned by a picturesque dome covered with many-coloured
tiles.

Somewhat older than the cathedral, but not unlike it, was the church of São Christovão now
destroyed, while São Thiago still has a west door whose shafts are even more elaborately carved
and twisted than are those at the Sé Velha.[45]

There is more than one building, such as the Templar

church at Thomar, older than the cathedral of Evora, and indeed older than the Sé Velha at
Coimbra; but Evora, except that its arches are pointed instead of round, is so clearly derived
directly from the Sé at Lisbon that it must be mentioned next in order.

[Sidenote: Sé, Evora.]

Although the great province of Alemtejo, which reaches from the south bank of the Tagus to
within about twenty-five or thirty miles of the Southern Sea, had more than once been entered
by the victorious Portuguese king Affonso Henriques, it was not till after his death in 1185,
indeed not till the beginning of the thirteenth century, that it could be called a part of
Portugal. As early as 1139 Affonso Henriques had met and defeated five kings at Ourique not
far from Beja, a victory which was long supposed to have secured his country's independence,
and which was therefore believed to have been much greater and more important than was really
the case.[46] Evora, the Roman capital of the district, did not fall into the hands of the
Christians till 1166, when it is said to have been taken by stratagem by Giraldo Sem Pavor,
or 'the Fearless,' an outlaw who by this capture regained the favour of the king. But soon
the Moors returned, first in 1174 when they won back the whole of the province, and again in
1184 when Dom Sancho, Affonso's son, utterly defeated and killed their leader, Yusuf. Yusuf's
son, Yakub, returned to meet defeat in 1188 and 1190 when he was repulsed from Thomar, but
when he led a third army across the Straits in 1192 he found that the Crusaders who had formerly
helped Dom Sancho had sailed on to Palestine, and with his huge army was able to drive the
Christians back beyond the Tagus and compel the king to come to terms, nor did the Christian
borders advance again for several years. It is said that the cathedral begun in 1185 or 1186[47]
was dedicated in 1204, so it must have been still incomplete when Yakub's successful invasion
took place, and only finished after the Christians had again recovered the town, though it
is difficult to see how the church can have been dedicated in that year as the town remained
in Moorish power till after Dom Sancho's death in 1211. Except the Sé Velha at Coimbra, Evora
is the best-preserved of all the older Portuguese cathedrals, and must always have been one
of the largest. The plan is evidently founded on those of the cathedrals of Lisbon and Braga;
a nave of eight bays 155 feet long by 75 wide, leads to an aisleless transept 125 by 30, with
lantern at the crossing, to the east of which were five chapels. Unfortunately in 1718 the
Capella Mor or main chancel was pulled down as being too small for the dignity of an archiepiscopal
see, and a new one of many-coloured marbles built in its stead, measuring 75 feet by 30.[48]

To the west are two large square towers; to the south a cloister added in 1376; and at the
end of the north transept a chapel built at the end of the fifteenth century and entered by
a large archway well carved with rich early renaissance ornament. If there is no advance from
the romanesque plan of older churches, there is none in construction. All the arches are pointed,
but that is the only direction in which any change has been made. The piers are all cross-shaped
with a large half-shaft on each of the four main faces and a smaller round shaft in each angle.
The capitals have square moulded abaci, and are rather rudely carved with budlike curled leaves;
the pointed arches of the arcade are well moulded, and above them runs a continuous triforium
gallery like that in the nave at Lisbon, but with small pointed arches. The main vault is a
pointed barrel with bold ribs; it is held up by a half-barrel over the aisles, which have groined
vaults with very large transverse arches. The galleries over the aisles are lit by small pointed
windows of two lights with a cusped circle between, but except in the lantern which has similar
windows, in the transept ends and the west front, these are the only original openings which
survive. (Fig. 20.) Both transepts have large rose windows, the northern filled with tracery,
like that, common in Champagne, radiating towards and not from the centre. The southern is
more interesting. The whole, well moulded, is enclosed in a curious square framing. In the
centre a doubly cusped circle is surrounded by twelve radiating openings, whose trefoiled heads
abut against twelve other broad trefoils, which are rather curiously run into the mouldings
of the containing circle. Over the west porch is a curious eight-light window. There are four
equal two-light openings below; on the two in the centre rests a large plain circle, and the
space between it and the enclosing arch is very clumsily filled by a rib which, springing from
the apex of either light, runs concentrically with the enclosing arch till it meets the larger
circle. The whole building is surmounted by brick battlements, everything else being of granite,
resting on a good trefoil corbel table, and, as the roofs are perfectly flat, there are no gables.

The two western towers are very picturesque. The northern, without buttresses, has its several
windows arranged without any regard to symmetry, and finishes in a round spire covered with
green and white glazed tiles. In the southern plain buttresses run up to the belfry stage which
has round-headed openings, and above it is a low octagonal spire set diagonally and surrounded
by eight pinnacles.

The most unusual feature of the whole cathedral is the fine octagonal lantern at the crossing.
Each face has a two-light window, pointed outside, with a round-headed arch within, leaving
a passage between the two walls. At each angle are plain buttresses, weathered back a few feet
below the corbel table, above which stand eight octagonal pinnacles each with eight smaller
pinnacles surrounding a conical stone spire. The whole lantern is covered by a steep stone
roof which, passing imperceptibly from the octagonal to the round, is covered, as are all the
other pinnacles, with scales carved in imitation of tiles. Inside the well-moulded vaulting
ribs do not rise higher than the windows, leaving therefore a large space between the vault
and the outer stone capping. (Fig. 21.)

Lanterns, especially octagonal lanterns, are particularly common in Spain, and at Salamanca
and its neighbourhood were very early developed and attained to a remarkable degree of perfection
before the end of the twelfth century. It is strange, therefore, that they should be so rare
in Portugal where there seem now to be only three: one, square, at Coimbra, an octagonal at
Lisbon, and one here, where however there is nothing of the internal dome which is so striking
at Salamanca. Probably this lantern was one of the enrichments added to the church by Bishop
Durando who died in 1283, for the capitals of the west door look considerably later.

This door is built entirely of white marble with shafts which look, as do those of the south
transept door, almost like Cipollino, taken perhaps from some Roman building. It has well-moulded
arches and abaci; capitals richly carved with realistic foliage, and on each side six of the
apostles, all very like each other, large-headed, long-bearded, and long-haired, with rather
good drapery but bodies and legs which look far too short. St. Peter alone, with short curly
hair and beard, has any individuality, but is even less prepossessing than his companions.
They are, however, among the earliest specimens of large figure sculpture which survive, and
by their want of grace make it easier to understand why Dom Manoel employed so many foreign
artists in the early years of the sixteenth century.

The large cloister to the south must once have been one of the best in the country. Here the
main arches alone survive, having lost whatever subsidiary arches or tracery they may once
have contained, but higher up under the corbel table are large open circles, not as everywhere
else enclosed under the large arch, but quite independent of it. Many of these circles are
still filled with thin slabs of granite all pierced with most beautiful patterns, some quite
Gothic, but the majority almost Moorish in design, not unlike the slabs in the circles over
the cloister arcades at Alcobaça, but though this is probably only a coincidence, still more
like those at Tarragona in Cataluña. (Fig. 22.)

[Sidenote: Templar Church, Thomar.]

Like the cathedral at Evora, some of the arches in the Templar Church at Thomar are pointed,
yet like it again, it is entirely romanesque both in construction and in detail.

The Knights Templars were already established in Portugal in 1126. With their headquarters
at Soure, a little to the south of Coimbra, they had been foremost in helping Affonso Henriques
in his attacks on the Moors, and when Santerem was taken in 1147 they were given the ecclesiastical
superiority of the town. This led to a quarrel with Dom Gilberto, the English bishop of Lisbon,
which was settled in 1150, when Dom Gualdim Paes, the most famous member the order ever produced
in Portugal, was chosen to be Grand Master. He at once gave up all Santarem to the bishop,
except the church of São Thiago, and received instead the territory of Cêras some forty or
fifty miles to the north-east. There on the banks of the river Nabão, on a site famous for
the martyrdom under Roman rule of Sant' Iria or Irene, Dom Gualdim built a church, and began
a castle which was soon abandoned for a far stronger position on a steep hill some few hundred
yards to the west across the river. This second castle, begun in 1160, still survives in part
but in a very ruinous condition; the walls and the keep alike have lost their battlements and
their original openings, though a little further west, and once forming part of the fortified
enclosure, the church, begun in 1162, still remains as a high tower-like bastion crowned with
battlements. Dom Gualdim had the laudable habit of carving inscriptions telling of any striking
event, so that we may still read, not only how the castle was founded, but how 'In the year
of the Era of Cæsar, 1228 (that is 1190 A.D., on the 3rd of July), came the King of Morocco,
leading four hundred thousand horsemen and five hundred thousand foot and besieged this castle
for six days, destroying everything he found outside the walls. God delivered from his hands
the castle, the aforesaid Master and his brethren. The same king returned to his country with
innumerable loss of men and of animals.'[49] Doubtless the size of Yakub the Almohade leader's
army is here much exaggerated, but that he was forced to retire from Thomar, and by pestilence
from Santarem is certain, and though he made a more successful invasion two years later the
Moors never again gained a footing to the north of the Tagus.

Dom Gualdim's church, since then enlarged by the addition of a nave to the west, was originally
a polygon of sixteen sides with a circular barrel-vaulted aisle surrounding a small octagon,
which with its two stories of slightly pointed arches contains the high altar.[50] (Fig. 23.)

The round-headed windows come up high, and till it was so richly adorned by Dom Manoel during
his grand mastership of the Order of Christ more than three hundred years later, the church
must have been extremely simple. Outside the most noticeable feature is the picturesque grouping
of the bell-towers and gable, added probably in the seventeenth century, which now rise on
the eastern side of the polygon, and which, seen above the orange and medlar trees of a garden
reaching eastwards towards the castle, forms one of the most pleasing views in the whole country.

[Sidenote: São João de Alporão, Santarem.]

If Evora and the Templar church at Thomar show one form of transition, where the arches are
pointed, but the construction and detail is romanseque, São João de Alporão at Santarem shows
another, where the construction is Gothic but the arches are still all round.

This church is said to stand on the site of a mosque and to have been at first called Al Koran,
since corrupted into Alporão, but the present building can hardly have been begun till the
early years of the thirteenth century. The church consists of an aisleless nave with good groined
vaulting and a five-sided apsidal chancel. The round-arched west door stands under a pointed
gable, but seems to have lost by decay and consequent restoration whatever ornament its rather
flat mouldings may once have had. Above is a good wheel window, with a cusped circle in the
centre, surrounded by eight radiating two-arched lights separated by eight radiating columns.
The two arches of each light spring from a detached capital which seems to have lost its shaft,
but as there is no trace of bases for these missing shafts on the central circle they probably
never existed. All the other nave windows are mere slits; and above them runs a rich corbel
table of slightly stilted arches with their edges covered with ball ornament resting on projecting
corbels. In the apse the five windows are tall and narrow with square heads, and the corbel
table of a form common in Portugal but rare elsewhere, where each corbel is something like
the bows of a boat.[51]

The inside, now turned into a museum, is much more interesting. The chancel is entered, under
a circular cusped window, by a wide round arch, whose outer moulding is curiously carried by
shafts with capitals set across the angle as if to carry a vaulting rib; in the chancel itself
the walls are double, the outer having the plain square-headed windows seen outside, and the
inner very elegant two-light round-headed openings resting on very thin and delicate shafts,
with a doubly cusped circle above. The vault, whose wall arches are stilted and slightly pointed,
has strong well-moulded ribs springing from the well-wrought capitals of tall angle shafts.
It will be seen that this is a very great advance on any older vaulting, since previously,
except in the French Church at Alcobaça, groined vaults had only been attempted over square
spaces. The finest of the many objects preserved in the museum is the tomb of Dom Duarte de
Menezes, who was killed in Africa in 1464 and buried in the church of São Francisco, whence,
São Francisco having become a cavalry stable, it was brought here not many years ago. (Fig. 24.)

Such are, except for the church at Idanha a Velha and that of Castro de Avelans near Braganza,
nearly all the early buildings in the country. Castro de Avelans is interesting and unique
as having on the outside brick arcades, like those on the many Mozarabic churches at Toledo,
a form of decoration not found elsewhere in Portugal. The church of Alcobaça is of course,
in part, a good deal older than are some of those mentioned above; but the whole, the romanesque
choir as well as the early pointed nave, is so unlike anything that has come before or anything
that has come after, that it seemed better to take it by itself without regard to strict chronological
order.

[Sidenote: Alcobaça.]

The first stone was laid in 1158, but the church was barely finished when King Sancho I. died
in 1211 and was not dedicated till 1220, while the monastic buildings were not ready till 1223,
when the monks migrated from Sta. Maria a Velha, their temporary home. The abbey was immensely
wealthy: it had complete jurisdiction over fourteen villages whose inhabitants were in fact
its serfs: it or its abbot was visitor to all Benedictine abbeys in the country and was, for
over three hundred years, till the reign of Cardinal King Henry, the superior of the great
military Order of Christ. It early became one of the first centres of learning in Portugal,
having begun to teach in 1269. It helped Dom Diniz to found the University of Lisbon, now finally
settled at Coimbra, with presents of books and of money, and it only acknowledged the king
in so far as to give him a pair of boots or shoes when he chanced to come to Alcobaça. All
these possessions and privileges of the monks were confirmed by Dom João IV. (1640-56) after
the supremacy of the Spaniards had come to an end, and were still theirs when Beckford paid
them his memorable visit near the end of the eighteenth century and was so splendidly entertained
with feastings and even with plays and operas performed by some of the younger brothers. Much
harm was of course done by the French invasion, and at last in 1834 the brothers were turned
out, their house made into barracks, and their church and cloister left to fall into decay--a
decay from which they are only being slowly rescued at the present time.

The first abbot, Ranulph, was sent by St. Bernard of Clairvaux himself at the king's special
request, and he must have brought with him the plan of the abbey or at least of the church.
Nearly all Cistercian churches, which have not been altered, are of two types which resemble
each other in being very simple, having no towers and very little ornament of any kind. In
the simpler of these forms, the one which prevailed in England, the transept is aisleless,
with five or more chapels, usually square, to the east, of which the largest, in the centre,
contains the main altar. Such are Fontenay near Monbart and Furness in Lancashire, and even
Melrose, though there the church has been rebuilt more or less on the old plan but with a wealth
of detail and size of window quite foreign to the original rule. In the other, a more complex
type, the transept may have a western aisle, and instead of a plain square chancel there is
an apse with surrounding aisle and beyond it a series of four-sided chapels. Pontigny, famous
for the shelter it gave to Thomas-à-Becket, and begun in 1114, is of this type, and so was
Clairvaux itself, begun in 1115 and rebuilt in the eighteenth century. Now this is the type
followed by Alcobaça, and it is worthy of notice that, as far as the plan of choir and transept
goes, Alcobaça and Clairvaux are practically identical. Pontigny has a choir of three bays
between the transept and the apse and seven encircling chapels; Clairvaux had, and Alcobaça
still has, a choir of but one bay and nine instead of seven chapels. Both had long naves, Clairvaux
of eleven and Alcobaça of thirteen bays, but at the west end there is a change, due probably
to the length of time which passed before it was reached, for there is no trace of the large
porch or narthex found in most early Cistercian churches.

The church is by far the largest in Portugal. It is altogether about 365 feet long, the nave
alone being about 250 feet by 75, while the transept measures about 155 feet from north to
south. Except in the choir all the aisles are of the same height, about 68 feet.

The east end is naturally the oldest part and most closely resembled its French original; the
eight round columns of the apse have good plain capitals like those found in so many early
Cistercian churches, even in Italy;[52] the round-headed clerestory windows are high and narrow,
and there are well-developed flying buttresses. Unfortunately all else has been changed: in
the apse itself everything up to the clerestory level has been hidden by two rows of classic
columns and a huge reredos, and all the choir chapels have been filled with rococo woodwork
and gilding, the work of an Englishman, William Elsden, who was employed to beautify the church
in 1770.[53] Why except for the choir aisle, and the chapels in choir and transept, the whole
church should be of the same height, it is difficult to say, for such a method of building
was unknown in France and equally unknown in Spain or Portugal. Possibly by the time the nave
was reached the Frenchmen who had planned the church were dead, and the native workmen, being
quite unused to such a method of construction, for all the older vaulted churches have their
central barrel upheld by the half-barrel vault of the galleries, could think of no other way
of supporting the groining of the main aisle. They had of course the flying buttresses of the
choir apse to guide them, but there the points of support come so much closer together, and
the weight to be upheld is consequently so much less than could be the case in the nave, that
they may well have thought that to copy them was too dangerous an experiment as well as being
too foreign to their traditional manner of construction.[54] Whatever may be the reason, the
west aisle of the transept and the side aisles of the nave rise to the full height of the building.
Their arches are naturally very much stilted, and with the main vault rest on piers of quite
unusual size and strength. The transverse arches are so large as almost to hide the diagonal
ribs and to give the impression that the nave has, after all, a pointed barrel vault. The piers
are throughout cross-shaped with a half-shaft on each cardinal face: at the crossing there
is also a shaft in the angle, but elsewhere this shaft is replaced by a kind of corbel capital[55]
at the very top which carries the diagonal ribs--another proof, as is the size of the transverse
arches, that such a ribbed vault was still a half-understood novelty. The most peculiar point
about nave piers is the way in which not only the front vaulting shafts but even that portion
of the piers to which they are attached is, except in the two western bays, cut off at varying
heights from the ground. In the six eastern bays, where the corbels are all at the same level,
this was done to leave room for the monks' stalls,[56] but it is difficult to see why, in the
case of the following five piers, against which, as at Clairvaux, stood the stalls of the lay
brothers, the level of the corbels should vary so much. Now all stalls are gone and the church
is very bare and desolate, with nothing but the horrible reredos to detract from that severity
and sternness which was what St. Bernard wished to see in all churches of the Order. (Fig. 25.)

The small chapel to the west of the south transept is the only part of the church, except the
later sixteenth-century sacristy, where there is any richness of detail, and there it is confined
to the tombs of some of the earlier kings and queens, and especially to those of D. Pedro and
the unfortunate Inez de Castro which belongs of course to a much later date.

The windows which are high up the aisle walls are large, round-headed, and perfectly plain.
At the transept ends are large round windows filled with plain uncusped circles, and there
is another over the west door filled with a rococo attempt at Gothic tracery, which agrees
well with the two domed western towers whose details are not even good rococo. Between these
towers still opens the huge west door, a very plainly moulded pointed arch of seven orders,
resting on the simple capitals of sixteen shafts: a form of door which became very common throughout
the fourteenth century. The great cloister was rebuilt later in the time of Dom Diniz, leaving
only the chapter-house entrance, which seems even older than the nave. As usual there is one
door in the centre, with a large two-light opening on each side: all the arches are round and
well moulded, and the capitals simply carved with stiff foliage showing a gradual transition
from the earlier romanesque. In the monastery itself, now a barrack, there are still a few
vaulted passages which must belong to the original building, but nearly all else has been rebuilt,
the main cloister in the fourteenth and sixteenth centuries and the greater part of the domestic
buildings in the eighteenth, so that except for the cloister and sacristy, which will be spoken
of later on, there is little worthy of attention.[57]

Now none of these buildings may show any very great originality or differ to any marked degree
from contemporary buildings in Spain or even in the south of France, yet to a great extent
they fixed a type which in many ways was followed down to the end of the Gothic period. The
plan of Braga, Pombeiro, Evora or Coimbra is reproduced with but little change at Guarda, and
if the western towers be omitted, at Batalha, some two hundred years later, and the flat paved
roofs of Evora occur again at Batalha and at Guarda. The barrel-vaulted nave also long survived,
being found as late as the beginning of the fourteenth century in the church of Santa Clara
at Coimbra, and even about seventy years later in the church of the Knights of São Thiago at
Palmella.

The battlements also of the castle at Guimarães are found not only at Coimbra, but as late
as 1336 in the church of Leça do Balio near Oporto, and, modified in shape by the renaissance
even in the sixteenth-century churches of Villa do Conde and of Azurara.

Although the distinctively French features of Alcobaça seem to have had but little influence
on the further development of building in Portugal, a few peculiarities are found there which
are repeated again. For example, the unusually large transverse arches of the nave occur at
Batalha, and the large plain western door is clearly related to such later doors as those at
Leça do Balio or of São Francisco at Oporto. Again the vaulting of the apse in São João de
Alporão is arranged very much in the way which was almost universal during the fourteenth and
fifteenth centuries in the chancels and side chapels of many a church, such as Santa Maria
do Olival at Thomar, or the Graça at Santarem itself, and the curious boat-like corbels of
São João are found more than once, as in the choir of the old church, formerly the cathedral
of Silves, far south in the Algarve. The large round windows at Evora do not seem to be related
to the window at São João, but to be of some independent origin; probably, like the similar
windows at Leça and at Oporto, they too belong to the thirteenth or fourteenth centuries.

CHAPTER III

THE THIRTEENTH AND FOURTEENTH CENTURIES DOWN TO THE BATTLE OF ALJUBARROTA

In Portugal the twelfth century is marked by a very considerable activity in building, but
the thirteenth, which in France and England saw Gothic architecture rise to a height of perfection
both in construction and in ornament which was never afterwards excelled, when more great churches
and cathedrals were built than almost ever before or since, seems here to have been the least
productive period in the whole history of the country. In the thirteenth century, indeed, Portugal
reached its widest European limits, but the energies, alike of the kings and of the people,
seem to have been expended rather in consolidating their conquests and in cultivating and inhabiting
the large regions of land left waste by the long-continued struggle. Although Dom Sancho's
kingdom only extended from the Minho to the Tagus, in the early years of the thirteenth century
the rich provinces of Beira, and still more of Estremadura, were very thinly peopled: the inhabitants
lived only in walled towns, and their one occupation was fighting, and plunder almost their
only way of gaining a living. It is natural then that so few buildings should remain which
date from the reigns of Dom Sancho's successors, Affonso II. (1211-1223), Sancho II. (1223-1248),
and Affonso III. (1248-1279): the necessary churches and castles had been built at once after
the conquest, and the people had neither the leisure nor the means to replace them by larger
and more refined structures as was being done elsewhere. Of course some churches described
in the last chapter may be actually of that period though belonging artistically and constructionally
to an earlier time, as for instance a large part of the cathedral of Evora or the church of
São João at Santarem.

[Sidenote: São Francisco, Guimarães.]

The Franciscans had been introduced into Portugal by Dona Sancha, the daughter of Dom Sancho
I., and houses were built for them by Dona Urraca, the wife of Dom Affonso II., at Lisbon and
at Guimarães. Their church at Guimarães has been very much altered at different times, mostly
in the eighteenth century, but the west door may very well belong to Dona Urraca's building.
It has a drip-mould covered with closely set balls, and four orders of mouldings of which the
second is a broad chamfer with a row of flat four-leaved flowers; the abacus is well moulded,
but the capitals, which are somewhat bell-shaped, have the bell covered with rude animals or
foliage which are still very romanesque in design. The entrance to the chapter-house is probably
not much later in date: from the south walk of the simple but picturesque renaissance cloister
a plain pointed doorway leads into the chapter-house, with, on either side, an opening of about
equal size and shape. In these openings there stand three pairs of round coupled shafts with
plain bases, rudely carved capitals and large square overhanging abaci, from which spring two
pointed arches moulded only on the under side: resting on these, but connected with them or
with the enclosing arch by no moulding or fillet, is a small circle, moulded like the arches
only on one side and containing a small quatrefoil.[58] This is one of the earliest attempts
at window tracery in the country, for the west window at Evora seems later, but like it, it
shows that tracery was not really understood in the country, and that the Portuguese builders
were not yet able so to unite the different parts as to make such a window one complete and
beautiful whole. Indeed so unsuccessful are their attempts throughout that whenever, as at
Batalha, a better result is seen, it may be put down to foreign influence. Much better as a
rule are the round windows, mostly of the fourteenth century, but they are all very like one
another, and are probably mostly derived from the same source, perhaps from one of the transept
windows at Evora, or from the now empty circle over the west door at Lisbon.

[Sidenote: São Francisco, Santarem.]

Much more refined than this granite church at Guimarães has been São Francisco at Santarem,
now unfortunately degraded into being the stable of a cavalry barracks. There the best-preserved
and most interesting part is the west door, which does not lead directly into the church but
into a low porch or narthex. The narthex itself has central and side aisles, all of the same
height, is two bays in length and is covered by a fine strong vault resting on short clustered
piers.[59] The doorway itself, which is not acutely pointed, stands under a gable which reaches
up to the plain battlemented parapet of the flat narthex roof. There are four shafts on each
side with a ring-moulding rather less than half-way up, which at once distinguishes them from
any romanesque predecessors; the capitals are round with a projecting moulding half-way up
and another one at the top with a curious projection or claw to unite the round cap and the
square moulded abacus. Of the different orders of the arch, all well moulded, the outer has
a hood with billet-mould; the second a well-developed chevron or zigzag; and the innermost
a series of small horseshoes, which like the chevron stretch across the hollow so as to hold
in the large roll at the angle.[60] (Fig. 26.)

[Sidenote: Santa Maria dos Olivaes, Thomar.]

In a previous chapter the building of a church at Thomar by Dom Gualdim Paes, Grand Master
of the Templars, has been mentioned. Of this church and the castle built at the same time,
both of which stood on the east or flat bank of the river Nabão, nothing now remains except
perhaps the lower part of the detached bell-tower. This church, Santa Maria dos Olivaes, was
the Matriz or mother church of all those held, first by the Templars and later by their successors,
the Order of Christ, not only in Portugal but even in Africa, Brazil, and in India. Of so high
a dignity it is scarcely worthy, being but a very simple building neither large nor richly
ornamented. A nave and aisles of five bays, three polygonal apses to the east and later square
chapels beyond the aisles, make up the whole building. The roofs are all of panelled wood of
the sixteenth century except in the three vaulted apses, of which the central is entered by
an arch, which, rising no higher than the aisle arches, leaves room for a large window under
the roof. All the arches of the aisle arcade spring from the simple moulded capitals of piers
whose section is that of four half-octagons placed together. In the

clerestory are windows of one small light, in the aisles of two larger lights, and in the apses
single lancets. The great simplicity of the building notwithstanding it can scarcely be as
old as the thirteenth century: the curious way in which the two lancet lights of the aisle
windows are enclosed under one larger trefoiled arch recalls the similar windows in the church
at Leça do Balio near Oporto begun in 1336, though there the elliptical head of the enclosing
arch is much less satisfactory than the trefoiled head here used. The only part of the church
which can possibly have been built in the thirteenth century is the central part of the west
front. The pointed door below stands under a projecting gable like that at São Francisco Santarem,
except that there is a five-foiled circle above the arch containing a pentalpha, put there
perhaps to keep out witches. The door itself has three large shafts on each side with good
but much-decayed capitals of foliage, and a moulded jamb next the door. The arch itself is
terribly decayed, but one of its orders still has the remains of a series of large cusps, arranged
like the horseshoe cusps at Santarem but much larger. Above the door gable is a circular window
of almost disproportionate size. It has twelve trefoil-headed lights radiating from a small
circle, and curiously crossing a larger circle some distance from the smaller. Unfortunately
the spaces between the trefoils and the outer mouldings have been filled up with plaster and
the lights themselves subdivided with meaningless wood tracery to hold the horrible blue-and-red
glass now so popular in Portugal. Though Santa Maria dos Olivaes cannot be nearly as old as
has usually been believed, it is one of the earliest churches built on the plan derived perhaps
first from Braga Cathedral or from the Franciscan and Dominican churches in Galicia, of a wooden
roofed basilica with or without transept, and with three or more apses to the east; a form
which to the end of the Gothic period was the most common and which is found even in cathedrals
as at Silves or at Funchal in Madeira.

Dom Sancho II., whose reign had begun with brilliant attacks on the Moors, had, because of
his connection with Dona Mencia de Haro, the widow of a Castilian nobleman, and his consequent
inactivity, become extremely unpopular, so was supplanted in 1246 by his brother Dom Affonso
III. The first care of the new king was to carry on the conquest

[Sidenote: Silves.]

of the Algarve, which his brother had given up when he fell under the evil influence of Dona
Mencia, and by about 1260 he had overrun the whole country. At first Alfonso x., the Wise,
king of Castile and Leon, was much displeased at this extension of Portuguese power, but on
Dom Affonso agreeing to marry his daughter Beatriz de Guzman, the Spanish king allowed his
son-in-law to retain his conquests and to assume the title of King of the Algarve, a title
which his descendants still bear. The countess of Boulogne, Affonso's first wife, was indeed
still alive, but that seems to have troubled neither Dona Beatriz nor her father. At Silves
or Chelb, for so the Moorish capital had been called, a bishopric was soon founded, but the
cathedral,[61] though many of its details seem to proclaim an early origin, was probably not
begun till the early, and certainly not finished till near the later, years of the fourteenth
century. It is a church of the same type as Santa Maria at Thomar but with a transept. The
west door, a smaller edition of that at Alcobaça, leads to a nave and aisles of four bays,
with plain octagonal columns, whose bases exactly resemble the capitals reversed--an octagon
brought to a square by a curved chamfer. The nave has a wooden roof, transepts a pointed barrel
vault, and the crossing and chancel with its side chapels a ribbed vault. Though some of the
capitals at the east end look almost romanesque, the really late date is shown by the cusped
fringing of the chancel arch, a feature very common at Batalha, which was begun at the end
of the fourteenth century, and by the window tracery, where in the two-light windows the head
is filled by a flat pierced slab. Outside, the chancel has good buttresses at the angles, and
is crowned by that curious boat-like corbel table seen at Santarem and by a row of pyramidal
battlements. The church is only about 150 feet long, but with its two picturesque and dilapidated
towers, and the wonderful deep purple of its sandstone walls rising above the whitewashed houses
and palms of the older Silves and backed by the Moorish citadel, it makes a most picturesque
and even striking centre to the town, which, standing high above the river, preserves the memory
of its Moslem builders in its remarkable and many-towered city walls.[62] (Fig. 27.)

[Sidenote: Beja.]

King Diniz the Labourer, so called for his energy in settling and reclaiming the land and in
fixing the moving sands along the west coast by plantations of pine-trees, and the son of Dom
Affonso and Dona Beatriz, was a more active builder than any of his immediate predecessors.
Of the many castles built by him the best preserved is that of Beja, the second town of Alemtejo
and the Pax Julia of Roman times. The keep, built about 1310, is a great square tower over
a hundred feet high. Some distance from the top it becomes octagonal, with the square fortified
by corbelled balconies projecting far out over the corners. Inside are several stories of square
halls finely vaulted with massive octagonal vaults; below, the windows are little more than
slits, but on one floor there are larger two-light pointed openings.[63]

[Sidenote: Leiria.]

Far finer and larger has been the castle of Leiria, some fifty miles south of Coimbra: it or
the keep was begun by Dom Diniz in 1324.[64] The rock on which it stands, in steepness and
in height recalls that of Edinburgh Castle, but without the long slope of the old town leading
nearly to the summit: towering high above Leiria it is further defended on the only accessible
quarter by the river Lis which runs round two sides not far from the bottom of the steep descent.
Unfortunately all is ruined, only enough remaining to show that on the steepest edge of the
rock there stood a palace with large pointed windows looking out over the town to the green
wooded hills beyond. On the highest part stands what is left of the keep, and a little lower
the castle-church whose bell-tower, built over the gate, served to defend the only access to
the inner fortification. This church, built about the same time, with a now roofless nave which
was never vaulted, is entered by a door on the south, and has a polygonal vaulted apse. The
mouldings of the door as well as the apse vault and its tall two-light windows show a greater
delicacy and refinement than is seen in almost any earlier building, and some of the carving
has once been of great beauty, especially of the boss at the centre of the apse.[65]

But besides those two castles there is another building of this period which had a greater
and more lasting effect on the work of this fourteenth century. In England the arrival of the
Cistercians and the new style introduced or rather developed by them seems almost more than
anything else to have determined the direction of the change from what is usually, perhaps
wrongly,[66] called Norman to Early English, but in Portugal the great foundation of Alcobaça
was apparently powerless to have any such marked effect except in the one case of cloisters.
Now with the exception of the anomalous and much later Claustro Real at Batalha, all cloisters
in Portugal, before the renaissance, follow two types: one, which is clearly only a modification
of the continuous romanesque arcades resting on coupled shafts, has usually a wooden roof,
and consists of a row of coupled shafts bearing pointed arches, and sometimes interrupted at
intervals by square piers; this form of cloister is found at Santo Thyrso near Guimarães, at
São Domingos in Guimarães itself, and in the Cemetery cloister built by Prince Henry the Navigator
at Thomar in the fifteenth century.

[Sidenote: Cloister, Cellas.]

The most remarkable of all the cloisters of the first type is that of the nunnery of Cellas
near Coimbra. Founded in 1210 by Dona Sancha, daughter of Sancho I., the nunnery is now a blind
asylum. The cloister, with round arches and coupled columns, seems thoroughly romanesque in
character, as are also the capitals. It is only on looking closer that the real date is seen,
for the figures on the capitals, which are carved with scenes such as the beheading of St.
John the Baptist, are all dressed in the fashion that prevailed under Dom Diniz--about 1300--while
the foliage on others, though still romanesque in arrangement, is much later in detail. More
than half of the arcades were rebuilt in the seventeenth century, but enough remains to make
the cloister of Cellas one of the most striking examples of the survival of old forms and methods
of building which in less remote countries had been given up more than a hundred years before.

The church, though small, is not without interest. It has a round nave of Dom Manoel's time
with a nuns' choir to the west and a chancel to the east, and is entered by a picturesque door
of the later sixteenth century.

[Sidenote: Cloister, Coimbra.]

[Sidenote: Cloister, Alcobaça.]

More interesting is the second type which was commonly used when a cloister with a vault was
wanted; and of it there are still examples to be seen at the Sé Velha Coimbra, at Alcobaça,
Lisbon Cathedral, Evora, and Oporto. None of these five examples are exactly alike, but they
resemble each other sufficiently to make it probable that they are all, ultimately at least,
derived from one common source, and there can be no doubt that that source was Cistercian.
In France what was perhaps its very first beginnings may be seen in the Cistercian abbey of
Fontenay near Monbart, where in each bay there are two round arches enclosed under one larger
round arch. This was further developed at Fontfroide near Narbonne, where an arcade of four
small round arches under a large pointed arch carries a thin wall pierced by a large round
circle. Of the different Portuguese examples the oldest may very well be that at Coimbra which
differs only from Fontfroide in having an arcade of two arches in each bay instead of one of
four, but even though it may be a little older than the large cloister of Alcobaça, it must
have been due to Cistercian influence. The great Claustro do Silencio at Alcobaça was, as an
inscription tells, begun in the year 1310,[67] when on April 13th the first stone was laid
by the abbot in the presence of the master builder Domingo Domingues.[68] In this case each
bay has an arcade of two or three pointed arches resting on coupled columns with strong buttresses
between each bay, but the enclosing arch is not pointed as at Coimbra or Fontfroide but segmental
and springs from square jambs at the level of the top of the buttresses, and the circles have
been all filled with pierced slabs, some of which have ordinary quatrefoils and some much more
intricate patterns, though in no case do they show the Moorish influence which is so noticeable
at Evora. On the north side projects the lavatory, an apsidal building with two stories of
windows and with what in France would be regarded as details of the thirteenth century and
not, as is really the case, of the fourteenth. A few bays on the west walk seem rather later
than the rest, as the arches of the arcade are trefoil-headed, while the upper part of a small
projection on the south side which now contains a stair, as well as the upper cloister to which
it leads, were added by João de Castilho for Cardinal Prince Henry, son of Dom Manoel, and
commendator of the abbey in 1518. (Fig. 28.)

[Sidenote: Cloister, Lisbon.]

In the cloister at Lisbon which seems to be of about the same date, and which, owing to the
nature of the site, runs round the back of the choir, there is no outer containing arch, and
in some bays there are two large circles instead of one, but in every other respect, except
that some of the round openings are adorned with a ring of dog-tooth moulding, the details
are very similar, the capitals and bases being all of good thirteenth-century French form.[69]
(Fig. 29.)

[Sidenote: Cloister, Oporto.]

If the cloister at Evora, which was built in 1376 and has already been described, is the one
which departs furthest from the original type, retaining only the round opening, that of the
cathedral of Oporto, built in 1385, comes nearer to Fontfroide than any of the others. Here
each bay is designed exactly like the French example except that the small arches are pointed,
that the large openings are chamfered instead of moulded, and that there are buttresses between
each bay. The capitals which are rather tall are carved with rather shallow leaves, but the
most noticeable features are the huge square moulded abaci which are so large as to be more
like those of the romanesque cloisters at Moissac or of Sta. Maria del Sar at Santiago than
any fourteenth-century work.

[Sidenote: Sta. Clara, Coimbra.]

The most important church of the time of Dom Diniz is, or rather was, that of the convent of
Poor Clares founded at Coimbra by his wife St. Isabel. Although a good king, Diniz had not
been a good husband, and the queen's sorrows had been still further increased by the rebellion of

her son, afterwards Affonso IV., a rebellion to which Isabel was able to put an end by interposing
between her husband and her son. When St. Isabel died in 1327, two years after her husband,
the church was not yet quite finished, but it must have been so soon after. Unfortunately the
annual floods of the Mondego and the sands which they bring down led to the abandonment of
the church in the seventeenth century, and have so buried it that the floor of the barn--for
that is the use to which it is now put--is almost level with the springing of the aisle arches,
but enough is left to show what the church was like, and were not its date well assured no
one would believe it to be later than the end of the twelfth century. The chancel, which was
aisleless and lower than the rest of the church, is gone, but the nave and its aisles are still
in a tolerable state of preservation, though outside all the detail has been destroyed except
one round window on the south side filled in with white marble tracery of a distinctly Italian
type, and the corbel table of the boat-keel shape. The inside is most unusual for a church
of the fourteenth century. The central aisle has a pointed barrel vault springing from a little
above the aisle arches, while the aisles themselves have an ordinary cross vault. All the capitals
too look early, and the buttresses broad and rather shallow. (Fig. 30.)

[Sidenote: Leça do Balio.]

A few miles north of Oporto on the banks of the clear stream of the Leça a monastery for men
and women had been founded in 986. In the course of the next hundred years it had several times
fallen into decay and been restored, till about the year 1115 when it was handed over to the
Knights Hospitaller of St. John of Jerusalem and so became their headquarters in Portugal.
The church had been rebuilt by Abbot Guntino some years before the transfer took place, and
had in time become ruinous, so that in 1336 it was rebuilt by Dom Frei Estevão Vasques Pimentel,
the head of the Order. This church still stands but little altered since the fourteenth century,
and though not a large or splendid building it is the most complete and unaltered example of
that thoroughly national plan and style which, developed in the previous century, was seen
at Thomar and will be seen again in many later examples. The church consists of a nave and
aisles of four bays, transepts higher than the side but lower than the centre aisle of the
nave, three vaulted apses to the east, and at the south-west corner a square tower. Like many
Portuguese buildings Sta. Maria de Leça do Balio looks at first sight a good deal earlier than
is really the case. The west and the south doors, which are almost exactly alike, except that
the south door is surmounted by a gable, have three shafts on each side with early-looking
capitals and plain moulded archivolts, and within these, jambs moulded at the angles bearing
an inner order whose flat face is carved with a series of circles enclosing four and five-leaved
flowers. Above the west door runs a projecting gallery whose parapet, like all the other parapets
of the church, is defended by a close-set row of pointed battlements. Above the gallery is
a large rose-window in which twelve spokes radiate from a cusped circle in the middle to the
circumference, where the lights so formed are further enriched by cusped semicircles. The aisle
and clerestory windows show an unusual attempt to include two lancets into one window by carrying
on the outer framing of the window till it meets above the mullion in a kind of pendant arch.[70]

The square tower is exceedingly plain, without string course or buttress to mitigate its severity.
Half-way up on the west side is a small window with a battlemented balcony in front projecting
out on three great corbels; higher up are plain belfry windows. At the top, square balconies
or bartizans project diagonally from the corners; the whole, though there are but three pyramidal
battlements on each side, being even more strongly fortified than the rest of the church. Now
in the fourteenth century such fortification of a church can hardly have been necessary, and
they were probably built rather to show that the church belonged to a military order than with
any idea of defence. The inside is less interesting, the pointed arches are rather thin and
the capitals poor, the only thing much worthy of notice being the font, belonging to the time
of change from Gothic to Renaissance, and given in 1512.[71]

[Sidenote: Chancel, Sé, Lisbon.]

Of the other buildings of the time of Dom Affonso IV. who succeeded his father Diniz in 1328
the most important

has been the choir of the cathedral at Lisbon; the church had been much injured by an earthquake
in 1344 and the whole east end was at once rebuilt on the French plan, otherwise unexampled
in Portugal except by the twelfth-century choir at Alcobaça. Unfortunately the later and more
terrible earthquake of 1755 so ruined the whole building that of Dom Affonso's work only the
surrounding aisle and its chapels remain. The only point which calls for notice is that the
chapels are considerably lower than the aisle so as to admit of a window between the chapel
arch and the aisle vault. All the chapels have good vaulting and simple two-light windows,
and capitals well carved with naturalistic foliage. In one chapel, that of SS. Cosmo and Damião,
screened off by a very good early wrought-iron grill, are the tombs of Lopo Fernandes Pacheco
and of his second wife Maria Rodrigues. Dona Maria, lying on a stone sarcophagus, which stands
on four short columns, and whose sides are adorned with four shields with the arms of her father,
Ruy di Villa Lobos, has her head protected by a carved canopy and holds up in her hands an
open book which, from her position, she could scarcely hope to read.[72]

[Sidenote: Royal tombs, Alcobaça. (Fig. 31.)]

Far more interesting both historically and artistically than these memorials at Lisbon are
the royal tombs in the small chapel opening off the south transepts of the abbey church at
Alcobaça. This vaulted chapel, two bays deep and three wide, was probably built about the same
time as the cloister, and has good clustered piers and well-carved capitals. On the floor stand
three large royal tombs and two smaller for royal children, and in deep recesses in the north
and south walls, four others. Only the three larger standing clear of the walls call for notice;
and of these one is that of Dona Beatriz, the wife of Dom Affonso III., who died in 1279, the
same lady who married Dom Affonso while his wife the countess of Boulogne was still alive.
Her tomb, which stands high above the ground on square columns with circular ringed shafts
at the corners, was clearly not made for Dona Beatriz herself, but for some one else at least
a hundred years before. It is of a white marble, sadly mutilated at one corner by French treasure-seekers,
and has on each side a romanesque arcade with an apostle, in quite archaic style, seated under
each arch; at the ends are large groups of seated figures, and on the sloping lid Dona Beatriz
herself, in very shallow relief, evidently carved out of the old roof-shaped cover, which not
being very thick did not admit of any deep cutting. Far richer, indeed more elaborate than
almost any other fourteenth-century tombs, are those of Dom Pedro I. who died in 1367, and
of Inez de Castro who was murdered in 1355. When only sixteen years old Dom Pedro, to strengthen
his father Affonso the Fourth's alliance with Castile, had been married to Dona Costança, daughter
of the duke of Penafiel. In her train there came as a lady-in-waiting Dona Inez de Castro,
the daughter of the high chamberlain of Castile, and with her Dom Pedro soon fell in love.
As long as his wife, who was the mother of King Fernando, lived no one thought much of his
connection with Dona Inez, or of that with Dona Thereza Lourenço, whose son afterwards became
the great liberator, King João I., but after Dona Costança's death it was soon seen that he
loved Dona Inez more than any one had imagined, and he was believed even to have married her.
This, and his refusal to accept any of the royal princesses chosen by his father, so enraged
Dom Affonso that he determined to have Dona Inez killed, and this was done by three knights
on 7th January 1355 in the Quinta das Lagrimas--that is, the Garden of Tears--near Coimbra.
Dom Pedro, who was away hunting in the south, would have rebelled against his father, but was
persuaded by the queen to submit after he had devastated all the province of Minho. Two years
later Dom Affonso died, and after Dom Pedro had caught and tortured to death two of the murderers--the
third escaped to Castile--he in 1361 had Dona Inez's body removed from its grave, dressed in
the royal robes and crowned, and swearing that he had really married her, he compelled all
the court to pay her homage and to kiss her hand: then the body was placed on a bier and carried
by night to the place prepared for it at Alcobaça, some seventy miles away. When six years
later, in 1367, he came to die himself he left directions that they should be buried with their
feet towards one another, that at the resurrection the first thing he should see should be
Dona Inez rising from her tomb. Unfortunately the French soldiers in 1810 broke open both tombs,
smashing away much fine carved work and scattering their bones.[73] The two tombs are much
alike in design and differ only in detail; both rest on four lions; the sides, above a narrow
border of sunk quatrefoils, are divided by tiny buttresses rising from behind the gables of
small niches into six parts, each of which has an arch under a gable whose tympanum is filled
with the most minute tracery. Each of these arches is cusped and foliated differently according
to the nature of the figure subject it contains. Behind the tops of the gables and pinnacles
of the buttresses runs a small arcade with beautiful little figures only a few inches high:
above this a still more delicate arcade runs round the whole tomb, interrupted at regular intervals
by shields, charged on Dom Pedro's tomb with the arms of Portugal and on that of Dona Inez
with the same and with those of the Castros alternately. At the foot of Dom Pedro's is represented
the Crucifixion, and facing it on that of Dona Inez the Last Judgment. Nothing can exceed the
delicacy and beauty of the figure sculpture, the drapery is all good, and the smallest heads
and hands are worked with a care not to be surpassed in any country. (Fig. 32.)

On the top of one lies King Pedro with his head to the north, on the other Dona Inez with hers
to the south; both are life size and are as well wrought as are the smaller details below.
Both have on each side three angels who seem to be just about to lift them from where they
lie or to have just laid them down. These angels, especially those near Dom Pedro's head, are
perhaps the finest parts of either tomb, with their beautiful drapery, their well-modelled
wings, and above all with the outstretching of their arms towards the king and Dona Inez. There
seems to be no record as to who worked or designed these tombs, but there can be little or
no doubt that he was a Frenchman, the whole feeling, alike of the architectural detail and
the figures themselves, is absolutely French; there had been no previous figure sculpture in
the country in any way good enough to lead up to the skill in design and in execution here
shown, nor, with regard to the mere architectural detail, had Gothic tracery and ornament yet
been sufficiently developed for a native workman to have invented the elaborate cuspings, mouldings,
and other enrichments which make both tombs so pre-eminent above all that came before them.[74]
These tombs, as indeed the whole church, as well as the neighbouring convent of Batalha, are
constructed of a wonderfully fine limestone, which seems to be practically the same as Caen
Stone, and which, soft and easy to cut when first quarried, grows harder with exposure and
in time, when not in a too shady or damp position, where it gets black, takes on a most beautiful
rich yellow colour.

These tombs, beautiful as they are, do not seem to have any very direct influence on the work
of the next century: it is true that a distinct advance was made in modelling the effigies
of those who lay below, but apart from that the decoration of these high tombs is in no case
even remotely related to that of the later monuments at Batalha; nor, except that the national
method of church planning was more firmly established than ever, and that some occasional features
such as the cuspings on the arch-mould of the door of São Francisco Santarem, which are copied
on an archaistic door at Batalha, are found in later work, is there much to point to the great
advance that was soon to be made alike in detail and in construction.

CHAPTER IV

BATALHA AND THE DELIVERANCE OF PORTUGAL

Towards the end of the fourteenth century came the most important and critical years that Portugal
had yet known. Dom Pedro, dying after a reign of only ten years, was succeeded by his only
legitimate son, Fernando, in 1367. Unfortunately the new king at his sister's wedding saw and
fell in love with the wife of a northern nobleman, and soon openly married this Dona Leonor
Telles de Menezes, though he was himself already betrothed to a Castilian princess, and though
her own husband was still alive. At the first court or Beja Manos held by Dona Leonor at Leça
near Oporto, all the Portuguese nobility except Dom Diniz, the king's half-brother and a son
of Inez de Castro, acknowledged her as queen. But soon the evil influence she exercised over
the king and the stories of her cruelty made her extremely unpopular and even hated by the
whole nation. The memory of the vengeance she took on her own sister, Dona Maria Telles, is
preserved by an interesting old house in Coimbra which has indeed been rebuilt since, in the
early sixteenth century, but is still called the House of the Telles. To the dislike Queen
Leonor felt for the sons of Inez de Castro, owing to Dom Diniz's refusal to kiss her hand,
was added the hatred she had borne her sister, who was married to Dom João, another son of
Dona Inez, ever since this sister Dona Maria had warned her to have nothing to do with the
king; she was also jealous because Dona Maria had had a son while her own two eldest children
had died. So plotting to be rid of them both, she at last persuaded Dom João that his wife
was not faithful to him, and sent him full of anger to that house at Coimbra where Dona Maria
was living and where, without even giving his wife time to speak, he stabbed her to death.
Soon after Dona Leonor came in and laughed at him for having believed her lies so as to kill
his own wife. Failing to kill the queen, Dom João fled to Castile.

When Dom Fernando himself died in 1383 he left his widow as regent of the kingdom on behalf
of their only daughter, Dona Brites, whom they had married to Don Juan I. of Castile. It was
of course bad enough for the nation to find itself under the regency of such a woman, but to
be absorbed by Castile and Leon was more than could be endured. So a great Cortes was held
at Coimbra, and Dom João, grand master of the Order of Aviz, and the son of Dom Pedro and Dona
Thereza Lourenço, was elected king. The new king at once led his people against the invaders,
and after twice defeating them met them for the final struggle at Aljubarrota, near Alcobaça,
on 14th August 1385. The battle raged all day till at last the Castilian king fled with all
his army, leaving his tent with its rich furniture and all his baggage. Before the enemy had
been driven from the little town of Aljubarrota, the wife of the village baker made herself
famous by killing nine Spaniards with her wooden baking shovel--a shovel which may still be
seen on the town arms. When all was over Dom João dedicated the spoil he had taken in the Castilian
king's tent to Our Lady of the Olive Tree at Guimarães where may still be seen, with many other
treasures, a large silver-gilt triptych of the Nativity and one of the silver angels from off
the royal altar.[75] Besides this, he had promised if victorious to rebuild the church at Guimarães
and to found where the victory had been won a monastery as a thankoffering for his success.

[Sidenote: Batalha.]

This vow was fulfilled two years later in 1387 by building the great convent of Sta. Maria
da Victoria or Batalha, that is Battle, at a place then called Pinhal[76] in a narrow valley
some nine or ten miles north of Aljubarrota and seven south of Leiria. Meanwhile John of Gaunt
had landed in Galicia with a large army to try and win Castile and Leon, which he claimed for
his wife Constance, elder daughter of Pedro the Cruel; marching through Galicia he met Dom
João at Oporto in February 1387, and then the Treaty of Windsor, which had been signed the
year before and which had declared the closest union of friendship and alliance to exist between
England and Portugal, was further strengthened by the marriage of King João to Philippa, the
daughter of John of Gaunt and of his first wife, Blanche of Lancaster. Soon after, the peace
of the Peninsula was assured by the marriage of Catherine, the only child of John of Gaunt
and of Constance of Castile, to Enrique, Prince of the Asturias and heir to the throne of Castile.

But it is time now to turn from the history of the foundation of Batalha to the buildings themselves,
and surely no more puzzling building than the church is to be found anywhere. The plan, indeed,
of the church, omitting the Capella do Fundador and the great Capellas Imperfeitas, presents
no difficulty as it is only a repetition of the already well-known and national arrangement
of nave with aisles, an aisleless transept, with in this case five apsidal chapels to the east.
Now in all this there is nothing the least unusual or different from what might be expected,
except perhaps that the nave, of eight bays, is rather longer than in any previous example.
But the church was built to commemorate a great national deliverance, and by a king who had
just won immense booty from his defeated enemy, and so was naturally built on a great and imposing
scale.[77]

The first architect, Affonso Domingues, perhaps a grandson of the Domingo Domingues who built
the cloister at Alcobaça, is said to have been born at Lisbon and so, as might have been expected,
his plan shows no trace at all of foreign influence. And yet even this ordinary plan has been
compared by a German writer to that of the nave and transepts of Canterbury Cathedral, a most
unlikely model to be followed, as Chillenden, who there carried out the transformation of Lanfranc's
nave, did not become prior till 1390, three years after Batalha had been begun.[78] But though
it is easy enough to show that the plan is not English but quite national and Portuguese, it
is not so easy to say what the building itself is. Affonso Domingues died in 1402, and was
succeeded by a man whose name is spelt in a great variety of ways, Ouguet, Huguet, or Huet,
and to whom most of the building apart from the plan must have been due. His name sounds more
French than anything else, but the building is not at all French except in a few details. Altogether
it is not at all easy to say whence those peculiarities of tracery and detail which make Batalha
so strange and unusual a building were derived, except that there had been in Portugal nothing
to lead up to such tracery or to such elaboration of detail, or to the constructive skill needed
to build the high groined vaults of the nave or the enormous span required to cover the chapter-house.
Perhaps it may be better to describe the church first outside and then in, and then see if
it is possible to discover from the details themselves whence they can have come.

The five eastern apses, of which the largest in the centre is also twice as high as the other
four, are probably the oldest part of the building, but all, except the two outer apses and
the upper part of the central, have been concealed by the Pateo built by Dom Manoel to unite
the church with the Capellas Imperfeitas, or unfinished chapels, beyond. Here there is nothing
very unusual: the smaller chapels all end in three-sided apses, at whose angles are buttresses,
remarkable only for the great number of string courses, five in all, which divide them horizontally;
these buttresses are finished by two offsets just below a plain corbel table which is now crowned
by an elaborately pierced and cusped parapet which may well have been added later. Each side
of the apse has one tall narrow single-light window which, filled at some later date from top
to bottom with elaborate stone tracery, has two thin shafts at each side and a rather bluntly-pointed
head. The central apse has been much the same but with five sides, and two stories of similar
windows one above the other. So far there is nothing unexpected or what could not easily have
been developed from already existing buildings, such as the church at Thomar or the Franciscan
and Dominican churches no further away than Pontevedra in Galicia.

Coming to the south transept, there is a large doorway below under a crocketed gable flanked
by a tall pinnacle on either side. This door with its thirteenth-century mouldings is one of
the most curious and unexpected features of the whole building. Excepting that the capitals
are well carved with leaves, it is a close copy of the west door of São Francisco at Santarem.
Here the horseshoe cuspings are on the out-most of the five orders of mouldings, and the chevron
on the fourth, while there is also a series of pointed cusps on the second. Only the innermost
betrays its really late origin by the curious crossing and interpenetrating of the mouldings
of its large trefoiled head. All this is thoroughly Portuguese and clearly derived from what
had gone before; but the same cannot be said for the crockets or for the pinnacles with their
square and gabled spirelets. These crockets are of the common vine-leaf shape such as was used
in England and also in France early in the fourteenth century, while the two-storied pinnacles
with shallow traceried panels on each face, and still more the square spirelets with rather
large crockets and a large bunchy finial, are not at all French, but a not bad imitation of
contemporary English work. On the gable above the door are two square panels, each containing
a coat-of-arms set in a cusped quatrefoil, while the vine-leaves which fill in the surface
between the quatrefoils and the outer mouldings of the square, as also those on the crowns
which surmount the coats, are also quite English. The elaborate many-sided canopies above are
not so much so in form though they might well have been evolved from English detail. Above
the gable comes another English feature, a very large three-light window running up to the
very vault; at the top the mullions of each light are carried up so as to intersect, with cusped
circles filling in each space, while the whole window to the top is filled with a veil of small
reticulated tracery. Above the top of the large window there is a band of reticulated panelling
whose shafts run down till they reach the crocketed hood-mould of the window: and above this
an elaborately pierced and foliated parapet between the square pinnacles of the angle buttresses,
which like these of the apses are remarkable for the extraordinary number (ten) of offsets
and string courses.

The next five bays of the nave as well as the whole north side (which has no buttresses) above
the cloister are all practically alike; the buttresses, pinnacles and parapet are just the
same as those of the transept: the windows tall, standing pretty high above the ground, are
all of three lights with tracery evidently founded on that of the large transept window, but
set very far back in the wall with as many as three shafts on each side, and with each light
now filled in with horrid wood or plaster work. The clerestory windows, also of three lights
with somewhat similar tracery, are separated by narrow buttresses bearing square pinnacles,
between which runs on a pointed corbel table the usual pierced parapet, and by strong flying
buttresses, which at least in the western bays are doubly cusped, and are, between the arch
and the straight part, pierced with a large foliated circle and other tracery. The last three
bays on the south side are taken up by the Founder's Chapel (Capella do Fundador), in which
are buried King João, Queen Philippa, and four of their sons. This chapel, which must have
been begun a good deal later than the church, as the church was finished in 1415 when the queen
died and was temporarily buried before the high altar, while the chapel was not yet ready when
Dom João made his will in 1426, though it was so in 1434 when he and the queen were there buried,
is an exact square of about 80 feet externally, within which an octagon of about 38 feet in
diameter rises above the flat roof of the square, rather higher than to the top of the aisles.
Each exposed side of the square is divided into three bays, one wider in the centre with one
narrower on each side. The buttresses, pinnacles and corbel table are much the same as before,
but the parapet is much more elaborate and more like French flamboyant. Of the windows the
smaller are of four lights with very elaborate and unusual flowing tracery in their heads;
small parts of which, such as the tracery at the top of the smaller lights, is curiously English,
while the whole is neither English nor French nor belonging to any other national school. The
same may be said of the larger eight-light window in the central bay, but that there the tracery
is even more elaborate and extravagant. The octagon above has buttresses with ordinary pinnacles
at each corner, a parapet like that below, and flying buttresses, all pierced, cusped and crocketed
like those at the west front. On each face is a tall two-light window with flowing tracery
packed in rather tightly at the top.

As for the west front itself, which has actually been compared to that of York Minster, the
ends of the aisles are much like the sides, with similar buttresses, pinnacles and parapet,
but with the windows not set back quite so far. On each side of the large central door are
square buttresses, running up to above the level of the aisle roof in six stories, the four
upper of which are panelled with what looks like English decorated tracery, and ending in large
square crocketed and gabled pinnacles. The door itself between these buttresses is another
strange mixture. In general design and in size it is entirely French: on either side six large
statues stand on corbels and under elaborate many-sided canopies, while on the arches themselves
is the usual French arrangement of different canopied figures: the tympanum is upheld by a
richly cusped segmental arch, and has on it a curiously archaistic carving of Our Lord under
a canopy surrounded by the four Evangelists. Above, the crocketed drip-mould is carried up
in an ogee leaving room for the coronation of the Virgin over the apex of the arch. So far
all might be French, but on examining the detail, a great deal of it is found to be not French
but English: the half octagonal corbels with their panelled and traceried sides, and still
more the strips of panelling on the jambs with their arched heads, are quite English and might
be found in almost any early perpendicular reredos or tomb, nor are the larger canopies quite
French. (Fig. 33.)

Above the finial of the ogee runs a corbel table supporting a pierced and crested parapet,
a little different in design from the rest.

Above this parapeted gallery is a large window lighting the upper part of the nave, a window
which for extravagance and exuberance of tracery exceeds all others here or elsewhere. The
lower part is evidently founded on the larger windows of the Capella do Fundador. Like them
it has two larger pointed lights under a big ogee which reaches to the apex of a pointed arch
spanning the whole window, the space between this ogee and the enclosing arch being filled
in with more or less ordinary flowing tracery. These two main lights are again much subdivided:
at the top is a circle with spiral tracery; below it an arch enclosing an ogee exactly similar
to the larger one above, springing from two sub-lights which are again subdivided in exactly
the same manner, into circle, sub-arch, ogee and two small lights, so that the whole lower
part of the window is really built up from the one motive repeated three times. The space between
the large arch and the window head is taken up by a large circle completely filled with minute
spiral tracery and two vesicae also filled in with smaller vesicae and circles. Now such a
window could not have been designed in England, in France, or anywhere else; not only is it
ill arranged, but it is entirely covered from top to bottom with tracery, which shows that
an attempt was being made to adapt forms suitable in a northern climate to the brilliant summer
sun of Portugal, a sun which a native builder would rather try to keep out than to let in.
Above the window is a band of reticulated tracery like that below, and the front is finished
with a straight line of parapet pierced and foliated like that below, joining the picturesque
clusters of corner pinnacles. The only other part of the church which calls for notice is the
bell-tower which stands at the north end of a very thick wall separating the sacristy from
the cloister; it is now an octagon springing strangely from the square below, with a rich parapet,
inside which stands a tall spire; this spire, which has a sort of coronet rather more than
half-way up, consists of eight massive crocketed ribs ending in a huge finial, and with the
space between filled in with very fine pierced work.[79] From such of the original detail which has

survived the beautiful alterations of Dom Manoel, the details of the cloister must have been
very like those of the church. The refectory to the west of the cloister is a plain room roofed
with a pointed barrel-vault; but the chapter-house is constructively the most remarkable part
of the whole convent. It is a great room over sixty feet square, opening off the east cloister
walk by a large pointed door with a two-light window each side. This great space is covered
by an immense vault, upheld by no central shaft; arches are thrown across the corners bringing
the square to an octagon, and though not very high, it is one of the boldest Gothic vaults
ever attempted; there is nowhere else a room of such a size vaulted without supporting piers,
and probably none where the buttresses outside, with their small projection, look so unequal
to the work they have to do, yet this vault has successfully withstood more than one earthquake.

The inside of the church is in singular contrast to the floridness of the outside. The clustered
piers are exceptionally large and tall; there is no triforium, and the side windows are set
so far back as to be scarcely seen. The capitals have elaborate Gothic foliage, but are so
square as to look at a distance almost romanesque. In front of each pier triple vaulting shafts
run up, but instead of the side shafts carrying the diagonal ribs as they should have done,
all three carry bold transverse arches, leaving the vaulting ribs to spring as best they can.
Each bay has horizontal ridge ribs, though their effect is lost by the too great strength of
the transverse arches. The chancel, a little lower than the nave and transepts, is entered
by an acutely pointed and richly cusped arch, and has a regular Welsh groined vault, with a
well-developed ridge rib. Unfortunately almost all the church furniture was destroyed during
the French retreat, and of the stained glass only that in the windows of the main apse survives,
save in the three-light window of the chapter-house, a window which can be exactly dated as
it displays the arms of Portugal and Castile quartered. This could only have been done during
the life of Dom Manoel's first wife, Isabel, eldest daughter and heir of Ferdinand and Isabella.
Dom Manoel married her in 1497, and she died in 1498 leaving a son who, had he lived, would
have inherited the whole Peninsula and so saved Spain from the fatal connection with the Netherlands
inherited by Charles V. from his own father. (Fig. 34.)

The most elaborate part of the interior is not unnaturally the Capella do Fundador: though
even there, the four beautiful carved and painted altars and retables on the east side, and
the elaborate carved presses on the west, have all vanished from their places, burned for firewood
by the invaders in 1810. In the centre under the lantern, lie King João who died in 1433, and
on the right Queen Philippa of Lancaster who died seventeen years before. The high tomb itself
is a plain square block of stone from which on each side there project four lions: at the head
are the royal arms surrounded by the Garter, and on the sides long inscriptions in honour of
the king and queen. The figures of the king and queen lie side by side with very elaborate
canopies at their heads. King João is in armour, holding a sword in his left hand and with
his other clasping the queen's right hand. The figures are not nearly so well carved as are
those of Dom Pedro and Inez de Castro at Alcobaça, nor is the tomb nearly as elaborate. On
the south wall are the recessed tombs of four of their younger sons. The eldest, Dom Duarte,
intended to be buried in the great unfinished chapel at the east, but still lies with his wife
before the high altar. Each recess has a pointed arch richly moulded, and with broad bands
of very unusual leaves, while above it rises a tall ogee canopy, crocketed and ending in a
large finial. The space between arch and canopy and the sills of the windows is covered with
reticulated panelling like that on the west front, and the tombs are divided by tall pinnacles.
The four sons here buried are, beginning at the west: first, Dom Pedro, duke of Coimbra; next
him Dom Henrique, duke of Vizeu and master of the Order of Christ, famous as Prince Henry the
Navigator; then Dom João, Constable of Portugal; and last, Dom Fernando, master of the Order
of Aviz, who died an unhappy captive in Morocco. During the reign of his brother Dom Duarte
he had taken part in an expedition to that country, and being taken prisoner was offered his
freedom if the Portuguese would give up Ceuta, captured by King João in the year in which Queen
Philippa died. These terms he indignantly refused and died after some years of misery. On the
front of each tomb is a large panel on which are two or three shields--one on that of Dom Henrique
being surrounded with the Garter--while all the surface is covered with beautifully carved
foliage. Dom Henrique alone has an

effigy, the others having only covers raised and panelled, while the back of the Constable's
monument has on it scenes from the Passion.

The eight piers of the lantern are made up of a great number of shafts with a moulded angle
between each. The capitals are covered with two tiers of conventional vine-leaves and have
octagonal, not as in the church square abaci, while the arches are highly stilted and are enriched
with most elaborate cusping, each cusp ending in a square vine-leaf. (Fig. 35.)

Such then are the main features of the church, the design of which, according to most writers,
was brought straight from England by the English queen, an opinion which no one who knows English
contemporary buildings can hold for a moment.

First, to take the entirely native features. The plan is only an elaboration of that of many
already existing churches. The south transept door is a copy of a door at Santarem. The heavy
transverse arches and the curious way the diagonal vaulting ribs are left to take care of themselves
have been seen no further away than at Alcobaça; the flat-paved terraced roofs, whose origin
the Visconde di Condeixa in his monograph on the convent, sought even as far off as in Cyprus,
existed already at Evora and elsewhere.

Secondly, from France might have come the general design of the west door, and the great height
of the nave, though the proportion between the aisle arcade and the clerestory, and the entire
absence of any kind of triforium, is not at all French.

Thirdly, several details, as has been seen, appear to be more English than anything else, but
they are none of them very important; the ridge ribs in the nave, the Welsh groining of the
chancel vault, the general look of the pinnacles, a few pieces of stone panelling on buttresses
or door, a small part of a few of the windows, the moulding of the chapter-house door, the
leaves on the capitals of the Capella do Fundador, and the shape of the vine-leaves at the
ends of the cuspings of the arches. From a distance the appearance of the church is certainly
more English than anything else, but that is due chiefly to the flat roof--a thoroughly Portuguese
feature--and to the upstanding pinnacles, which suggest a long perpendicular building such
as one of the college chapels at Oxford.

Lastly, if the open-work spire is a real copy of that destroyed in 1755, and if there ever
was another like it on the Capella do Fundador,[80] they suggest German influence, although
the earliest Spanish examples of such German work were not begun at Burgos till 1442, by which
time the church here must have been nearly if not quite finished.

It is then not difficult to assign a great many details, with perhaps a certain amount of truth,
to the influence of several foreign countries, yet as a whole the church is unlike any building
existing in any of these countries or even in Spain, and it remains as difficult, or indeed
as impossible, to discover whence these characteristics came. So far there had been scarcely
any development of window tracery to lead up to the elaborate and curious examples which are
found here; still less had any such constructive skill been shown in former buildings as to
make so great a vault as that of the chapter-house at all likely, for such a vault is to be
found perhaps nowhere else.

Probably the plan of the church, and perhaps the eastern chapel and lower part of the transept,
are the work of Affonso Domingues, and all the peculiarities, the strange windows, the cusped
arches, the English-looking pinnacles, as well as all the constructive skill, are due to Huguet
his successor, who may perhaps have travelled in France and England, and had come back to Portugal
with increased knowledge of how to build, but with a rather confused idea of the ornamental
detail he had seen abroad.

When Dom João died in 1433 his eldest son, Dom Duarte or Edward, determined to build for himself
a more splendid tomb-house than his father's, and so was begun the great octagon to the east.

Unfortunately Dom Duarte's reign was short; he died in 1438, partly it is said of distress
at the ill success of his expedition to Morocco and at the captivity there of his youngest
brother, so that he had no time to finish his chapel, and his son Affonso V., the African,
was too much engaged in campaigning against the Moors to be able to give either money or attention
to his father's work; and it was still quite unfinished when Dom Manoel came to the throne
in 1495, and though he did much towards carrying on the work it was unfinished when he died
in 1521 and so remains to the present day. It is in designing this chapel that Huguet showed
his greatest originality and constructive daring: a few feet behind the central apse he planned
a great octagon about seventy-two feet in diameter, surrounded by seven apsidal chapels, one
on each side except that next the church, while between these chapels are small low chambers
where were to be the tombs themselves. There is nothing to show how this chapel was to be united
to the church, as the great doorway and vaulted hall were added by Dom Manoel some seventy
years later. When Dom Duarte died in 1438, or when Huguet himself died not long after,[81]
the work had only been carried out as far as the tops of the surrounding chapels, and so remained
all through his son's and his grandson's reigns, although in his will the king had specially
asked that the building should be carried on. In all this original part of the Capellas Imperfeitas
there is little that differs from Huguet's work in the church. The buttresses and corbel table
are very similar (the pinnacles and parapets have been added since 1834), and the apses quite
like those of the church. (Fig. 36.)

The tracery of the chief windows too is not unlike that of the lantern windows of the founder's
chapel except that there is a well-marked transome half-way up--a feature which has been attributed
to English influence--while the single windows of the tomb chambers are completely filled with
geometric tracery. Inside, the capitals of the chapel arches as well as their rich cuspings
are very like those of the founder's chapel; the capitals having octagonal abaci and stiff
vine-leaves, and the trefoiled cusps ending in square vine-leaves, while the arch mouldings
are, as in King João's chapel, more English than French in section. There is nothing now to
show how the great central octagon was to be roofed--for the eight great piers which now rise
high above the chapel were not built till the time of Dom Manoel--but it seems likely that
the vault was meant to be low, and not to rise much above the chapel roofs, finishing, as everywhere
else in the church, in a flat, paved terrace.

The only important addition made during the reigns of Dom Affonso V. and of Dom João II. was
that of a second cloister, north of the Claustro Real, and still called the Cloister of Affonso.
This cloister is as plain and wanting in ornament as everything else about the monastery is
rich and elaborate, and it was probably built under the direction of Fernão d'Evora, who succeeded
his uncle Martim Vasques as master of the works before 1448, and held that position for nearly
thirty years. Unlike the great cloister, whose large openings must, from the first, have been
meant for tracery, the cloister of Affonso V. is so very plain and simple, that if its date
were not known it would readily be attributed to a period older even than the foundation of
the monastery. On each side are seven square bays separated by perfectly plain buttresses,
each bay consisting of two very plain pointed arches resting on the moulded capitals of coupled
shafts. Except for the buttresses and the vault the cloister differs in no marked way from
those at Guimarães and elsewhere whose continuous pointed arcades show so little advance from
the usual romanesque manner of cloister-building. Above is a second story of later date, in
which the tiled roof rests on short columns placed rather far apart, and with no regard to
the spacing of the bays below. Round this are the kitchens and various domestic offices of
the convent, and behind it lay another cloister, now utterly gone, having been burned by the
French in 1810. Such are the church and monastery of Batalha as planned by Dom João and added
to by his son and grandson, and though it is not possible to say whence Huguet drew his inspiration,
it remains, with all the peculiarities of tracery and detail which make it seem strange and
ungrammatical--if one may so speak--to eyes accustomed to northern Gothic, one of the most
remarkable examples of original planning and daring construction to be found anywhere. Of the
later additions which give character to the cloister and to the Capellas Imperfeitas nothing
can be said till the time of Dom Manoel is reached.

CHAPTER V

THE EARLIER FIFTEENTH CENTURY

[Sidenote: Guimarães.]

Besides building Batalha, King João dedicated the spoils he had taken at Aljubarrota to the
church of Nossa Senhora da Oliviera at Guimarães, which he rebuilt from the designs of Juan
Garcia of Toledo. The most important of these spoils is the silver-gilt reredos taken in the
Spanish king's travelling chapel. It is in the shape of a triptych about four feet high. In
the centre is represented the Virgin with the Infant Christ on a bed, with Joseph seated and
leaning wearily on his staff at the foot, the figures being about fourteen inches high; above
two angels swing censers, and the heads of an ox and an ass appear feeding from a manger. All
the background is richly diapered, and above are four cusped arches, separated by angels under
canopies, while above the arches to the top there rises a rich mass of tabernacle work, with
the window-like spaces filled in with red or green enamel. At the top are two half-angels holding
the arms of Portugal, added when the reredos was dedicated to Our Lady by Dom João. The two
leaves, each about twenty inches wide, are divided into two equal stories, each of which has
two cusped and canopied arches enclosing, those on the left above, the Annunciation, and below
the Presentation, and those on the right, the Angel appearing to the Shepherds above, and the
Wise Men below. All the tabernacle work is most beautifully wrought in silver, but the figures
are less good, that of the Virgin Mary being distinctly too large.[82] (Fig. 37.)

Of the other things taken from the defeated king's tent, only one silver angel now remains
of the twelve which were sent to Guimarães.

Of the church rebuilt in commemoration of this great victory, only the west front has escaped
a terrible transformation carried out not so long ago, and which has made it impossible to
see what the inside was once like. If the builder was a Spaniard, as his name, Juan Garcia
de Toledo, seems to imply, there is nothing Spanish about his design. The door is like many
another door of about the same period, with simple mouldings ornamented with small bosses,
but the deeply recessed window above is most unusual. The tracery is gone, but the framing
of the window remains, and is far more like that of a French door than of a window. On either
jamb are two stories of three canopied niches, containing figures, while the arches are covered
with small figures under canopies; all is rather rude, but the whole is most picturesque and
original.

To the left rises the tower, standing forward from the church front: it is of three stories,
with cable moulding at the corners, a picturesque cornice and battlements at the top; a bell
gable in front, and a low octagonal spire. On the ground floor are two large windows defended
by simple but good iron grilles, and in the upper part are large belfry windows. This is not
the original tower, for that was pulled down in 1515, when the present one was built in its
stead by Pedro Esteves Cogominho. Though of so late a date it is quite uninfluenced, not only
by those numerous buildings of Dom Manoel's time, which are noted for their fantastic detail,
but by the early renaissance which had already begun to show itself here and there, and it
is one of the most picturesque church towers in the country.

A few feet to the west of the church there is a small open shrine or chapel, a square vault
resting on four pointed arches which are well moulded, enriched with dog-tooth and surmounted
by gables. This chapel was built soon after 1342 to commemorate the miracle to which the church
owes its name. Early in the fourteenth century there grew at São Torquato, a few miles off,
an olive-tree which provided the oil for that saint's lamp. It was transported to Guimarães
to fulfil a like office there for the altar of Our Lady. It naturally died, and so remained
for many years till 1342, when one Pedro Esteves placed on it a cross which his brother had
bought in Normandy. This was the 8th of September, and three days after the dead olive-tree
broke into leaf, a miracle

greatly to the advantage and wealth of the church and of the town. From that day the church
was called Our Lady of the Olive Tree.

[Sidenote: Guarda.]

Far more interesting than this church, because much better preserved and because it is clearly
derived, in part at least, from Batalha, is the cathedral of Guarda, begun by João I. Guarda
is a small town, not far from the Spanish border, built on a hill rising high above the bleak
surrounding tableland to a height of nearly four thousand feet, and was founded by Dom Sancho
I. in 1197 to guard his frontier against the Spaniards and the Moors. Begun by João I. the
plan and general design of the whole church must belong to the beginning of the fifteenth century,
though the finishing of the nave, and the insertion of larger transept windows, were carried
out under Dom Manoel, and though the great reredos is of the time of Dom João III. Yet the
few chapels between the nave buttresses are almost the only real additions made to the church.
Though of but moderate dimensions, it is one of the largest of Portuguese cathedrals, being
175 feet long by 70 feet wide and 110 feet across the transepts. It is also unique among the
aisled and vaulted churches in copying Batalha by having a well-developed clerestory and flying
buttresses.

The plan consists of a nave and aisles of five bays, a transept projecting one bay beyond the
aisles, and three apses to the east. At the crossing the vault is slightly raised so as to
admit of four small round windows opening above the flat roofs of the central aisle and transepts.
The only peculiarity about the plan lies in the two western towers, which near the ground are
squares set diagonally to the front of the church and higher up change to octagons, and so
rise a few feet above the flat roof. About the end of the fifteenth century two small chapels
were added to the north of the nave, and later still the spaces between the buttresses were
filled in with shallow altar recesses.

The likeness to Batalha is best seen in the Capella Mor. As the apse has only three instead
of five sides, the windows are rather wider, and there are none below, but otherwise the resemblance
is as great as may be, when the model is of fine limestone and the copy of granite. The buttresses
have offset string courses, and square crocketed pinnacles just as at Batalha; there has even
been an attempt to copy the parapet, though only the trefoil corbel table is really like the
model, for the parapet itself is solid with a cresting of rather clumsy fleurs-de-lis. These
pinnacles and this crested parapet are found everywhere all round the church, though the pinnacles
on the aisle walls from which the plain flying buttresses spring are quite different, being
of a Manoelino design. Again the north transept door has evidently been inspired by the richness
of Batalha. Here the door itself is plain, but well moulded, with above it an elaborately crocketed
ogee drip-mould, which ends in a large finial; above this rises to a considerable height some
arcaded panelling, ending at the top in a straight band of quatrefoil, and interrupted by a
steep gable. (Fig. 38.)

No other part of the outside calls for much notice except the boat-keel corbels of the smaller
apses, the straight gable-less ends to transept and nave which show that the roofs are flat
and paved, and the western towers. These are of three stories. The lowest is square at the
bottom and octagonal above, the change being effected by a curved offset at two corners, while
at the third or western corner the curve has been cut down so as to leave room for an eighteenth-century
window, lighting the small polygonal chapel inside, a chapel originally lit by two narrow round-headed
windows on the diagonal sides. In the second story there are again windows on the same diagonal
sides, but they have been built up: while on the third or highest division--where the octagon
is complete on all sides--are four belfry windows. The whole is finished by a crested parapet.
The west front between these towers is very plain. At the top a cresting, simpler than that
elsewhere, below a round window without tracery, lower still two picturesque square rococo
windows, and at the bottom a rather elaborate Manoelino doorway, built not many years ago to
replace one of the same date as the windows above.

Throughout the clerestory windows are not large. They are round-headed of two lights, with
simple tracery, and deep splays both inside and out. The large transept windows with half octagonal
heads under a large trefoil were inserted about the beginning of the sixteenth century.

Inside the resemblance to Batalha is less noticeable. The ribs of the chancel vault are well
moulded, as are the arches of the lantern, but in the nave, which cannot have been finished
till the end of the fifteenth century, the design is quite different. The piers are all a hollow
square set diagonally with a large round shaft at each corner. In the aisle arches the hollows
of the diagonal sides are carried round without capitals, with which the round shafts alone
are provided; while the shaft in front runs up to a round Manoelino capital with octagonal
abacus from which springs the vaulting at a level higher than the sills of the clerestory windows.[83]
The most unusual part of the nave is the vaulting of all three aisles, where all the ribs,
diagonal as well as transverse, are of exactly the same section and size as is the round shaft
from which they spring, even the wall rib being of the same shape though a little smaller.
At the crossing there are triple shafts on each side, those of the nave being twisted, which
is another Manoelino feature. The nave then must be about a hundred years later than the eastern
parts of the church, where the capitals are rather long and are carved with foliage and have
square abaci, while those of the nave are all of the time of King João II. or of King Manoel.
At about the same time some small and picturesque windows were inserted above the smaller apses
on the east side of the transept, and rather later was built the chapel to the north-east of
the nave, which is entered through a segmental arch whose jambs and head are well carved with
early renaissance foliage and figures, and which contains the simple tomb of a bishop. The
pulpits, organs, and stalls, both in the chancel and in the western choir gallery, are fantastic
and late, but the great reredos which rises in three divisions to the springing of the vault
is the largest and one of the finest in the country, but belonging as it does to a totally
different period and school must be left for another chapter.

[Sidenote: Nossa Senhora do Vencimento do Monte do Carmo, Lisbon.]

Much need not be said about the Carmo at Lisbon, another church of the same date, as it has
been almost entirely wrecked by the earthquake of 1755. The victory of Aljubarrota was due
perhaps even more to the grand Constable of Portugal, Dom Nuno Alvares Pereira, than to the
king himself, and, like the king, the Constable commemorated the victory by founding a monastery,
a great Carmelite house in Lisbon. The church of Nossa Senhora do Vencimento do Monte do Carmo
stands high up above the central valley of Lisbon on the very verge of the steep hill. Begun
in July 1389 the foundations twice gave way, and it was only after the Constable had dismissed
his first master and called in three men of the same name, Affonso, Gonçalo, and Rodrigo Eannes,
that a real beginning could be made, and it was not finished till 1423, when it was consecrated;
at the same time the founder assumed the habit of a Carmelite and entered his own monastery
to die eight years later, and to become an object of veneration to the whole people. In plan
the church was almost exactly like that of Batalha, though with a shorter nave of only five
bays.[84] To the east of the transept are still five apses--the best preserved part of the
whole building--having windows and buttresses like those at Batalha. The only other part of
the church which has escaped destruction is the west door, a large simple opening of six moulded
arches springing from twelve shafts whose capitals are carved with foliage. From what is left
it seems that the church was more like what Batalha was planned to be, rather than what it
became under the direction of Huguet: but the downfall of the nave has been so complete that
it is only possible to make out that there must have been a well-developed clerestory and a
high vaulted central aisle. What makes this destruction all the more regrettable is the fact
that the church was full of splendid tombs, especially that of the Holy Constable himself:
a magnificent piece of carving in alabaster sent from Flanders by Dom João's daughter, Isabel,
duchess of Flanders.[85]

After this catastrophe an attempt was made to rebuild the church, but little was done, and
it still remains a complete ruin, having been used since the suppression of all monasteries
in 1834 as an Archæological Museum where many tombs and other architectural fragments may still
be seen.

[Sidenote: Villar de Frades.]

Towards the end of King João's reign a man named João Vicente, noting the corruption into which
the religious orders were falling, determined to do what he could by preaching and example
to bring back a better state of things. He first began his work in Lisbon, but was driven from
there by the bishop to find a refuge at Braga. There he so impressed the archbishop that he
was given the decayed and ruined monastery of Villar de Frades in 1425. Soon he had gathered
round him a considerable body of followers, to whom he gave a set of rules and who, after receiving
the papal sanction, were known as the Canons Secular of St. John the Evangelist or, popularly,
Loyos, because their first settlement in Lisbon was in a monastery formerly dedicated to St.
Eloy. The church at Villar, which is of considerable size, was probably long of building, as
the elliptical-headed west door with its naturalistic treelike posts has details which did
not become common till at least the very end of the century. Inside the church consists of
a nave of five bays, flanked with chapels but not aisles, transepts which are really only enlarged
chapels, and a chancel like the nave but without chapels. The chief feature of the inside is
the very elaborate vaulting, which with the number and intricacy of its ribs, is not at all
unlike an English Perpendicular vault, and indeed would need but little change to develop into
a fan vault. Here then there has been a considerable advance from the imperfect vaulting of
the central aisle at Batalha, where the diagonal ribs had to be squeezed in wherever they could
go, although there are at Villar no side aisles so that the construction of supporting buttresses
was of course easier than at Batalha: and it is well worth noticing how from so imperfect a
beginning as the nave at Batalha the Portuguese masters soon learned to build elaborate and
even wide vaults, without, as a rule, covering them with innumerable and meaningless twisting
ribs as was usually done in Spain. In the north-westernmost chapel stands the font, an elaborate
work of the early renaissance; an octagonal bowl with twisted sides resting on a short twisted
base.

[Sidenote: Matriz, Alvito.]

Not unlike the vaulting at Villar is that of the Matriz or mother church of Alvito, a small
town in the Alemtejo, nor can it be very much later in date. Outside it is only remarkable
for its west door, an interesting example of an attempt to use the details of the early French
renaissance, without understanding how to do so--as in the pediment all the entablature except
the architrave has been left out--and for the short twisted pinnacles which somehow give to
it, as to many other buildings in the Alemtejo, so Oriental a look, and which are seen again
at Belem. Inside, the aisles are divided from the nave by round chamfered arches springing
from rather short octagonal piers, which have picturesque octagonal capitals and a moulded
band half-way up. Only is the easternmost bay, opening to large transeptal chapels, pointed
and moulded. The vaulting springs from corbels, and although the ribs are but simply chamfered
they are well developed. Curiously, though the central is so much higher than the side aisles,
there is no clerestory, nor any signs of there ever having been one, while the whole wall surface
is entirely covered with those beautiful tiles which came to be so much used during the seventeenth
century.

In the year 1415 her five sons had sailed straight from the deathbed of Queen Philippa to the
coast of Morocco and had there captured the town of Ceuta, a town which remained in the hands
of the Portuguese till after their ill-fated union with Spain; for in 1668 it was ceded to
Spain in return for an acknowledgment of Portuguese independence, thus won after twenty-seven
years' more or less continuous fighting. This was the first time any attempt had been made
to carry the Portuguese arms across the Straits, and to attack their old enemies the Moors
in their own land, where some hundred and seventy years later King João's descendant, Dom Sebastião,
was to lose his life and his country's freedom.

[Sidenote: Tomb in Graça, Santarem.]

The first governor of Ceuta was Dom Pedro de Menezes, count of Viana. There he died in 1437,
after having for twenty-two years bravely defended and governed the city--then, as is inscribed
on his tomb, the only place in Africa possessed by Christians. This tomb, which was made at
the command of his daughter Dona Leonor, stands in the church of the Graça at Santarem, a church
which had been founded by his grandfather the count of Ourem in 1376 for canons regular of
St. Augustine. Inside the church itself is not very remarkable,[86] having a nave and aisles
with transepts and three vaulted chapels to the east, built very much in the same style as
is the church at Leça do Balio, except that it has a fine west front, to be mentioned later,
that the roof of the nave was knocked down by the Devil in 1548 in anger at the extreme piety
of Frey Martinho de Santarem, one of the canons, and that many famous people, including Pedro
Alvares Cabral, the discoverer of Brazil, are therein buried.

In general outline the tomb of the count of Viana is not unlike that of his master Dom João,
but it is much more highly decorated. On eight crouching lions rests a large altar-tomb. It
has a well-moulded and carved base and an elaborately carved cornice, rich with deeply undercut
foliage, while on the top lie Pedro de Menezes and his wife Dona Beatriz Coutinho, with elaborately
carved canopies at their heads, and pedestals covered with figures and foliage at their feet.
Beneath the cornice on each of the longer sides is cut in Gothic letters a long inscription
telling of Dom Pedro's life, and lower down and on all four sides there is in the middle a
shield, now much damaged, with the Menezes arms. On each side of these shields are carved spreading
branches, knotted round a circle in the centre in which is cut the word 'Aleo.' Once, when
playing with King João at a game in which some kind of club or mallet was used, the news came
that the Moors were collecting in great numbers to attack Ceuta. The king, turning to Dom Pedro,
asked him what reinforcements he would need to withstand the attack; the governor answered:
'This "Aleo," or club, will be enough,' and in fact, returning at once to his command, he was
able without further help to drive back the enemy. So this word has been carved on his tomb
to recall how well he did his duty.[87] (Fig. 39.)

[Sidenote: Tomb in São João de Alporão.]

Not far from the Graça church is that of São João de Alporão, of which something has already
been said, and in it now stands the tomb of another Menezes, who a generation later also died
in Africa, fighting to save the life of his king, Dom Affonso V., grandson of King João. Notwithstanding
the ill-success of the expedition of his father, Dom Duarte, to Tangier, Dom Affonso, after
having got rid of his uncle the duke of Coimbra, who had governed the country during his minority,
and who fell in battle defending himself against the charge of treason, led several expeditions
to Morocco, taking first Alcazar es Seghir or Alcacer Seguer, and later Tangier and Arzilla,
thereby uselessly exhausting the strength of the people, and hindering the spread of maritime
exploration which Dom Henrique had done so much to extend.

This Dom Duarte de Menezes, third count of Viana, was, as an inscription tells, first governor
of Alcacer Seguer, which with five hundred soldiers he successfully defended against a hundred
thousand Moors, dying at last in the mountains of Bonacofú in defence of his king in 1464.[88]

The monument was built by his widow, Dona Isabel de Castro, but so terribly had Dom Duarte
been cut to pieces by the Moors, that only one finger could be found to be buried there.[89]
Though much more elaborate, the tomb is not altogether unlike those of the royal princes at
Batalha. The count lies, armed, with a sword drawn in his right hand, on an altar-tomb on whose
front, between richly traceried panels, are carved an inscription above, upheld by small figures,
and below, in the middle a flaming cresset, probably a memorial of his watchfulness in Africa,
and on each side a shield.

Surmounting the altar-tomb is a deeply moulded ogee arch subdivided into two hanging arches
which spring from a pendant in the middle, while the space between these sub-arches and the
ogee above is filled with a canopied carving of the Crucifixion. At about the level of the
pendant the open space is crossed by a cusped segmental arch supporting elaborate flowing tracery.
The outer sides of the ogee, which ends in a large finial, are enriched with large vine-leaf
crockets. On either side of the arch is a square pier, moulded at the angles, and with each
face covered with elaborate tracery. Each pier, which ends in a square crocketed and gabled
pinnacle, has half-way

up a small figure standing on an octagonal corbel under an elaborate canopy. The whole at the
top is finished with a cornice running straight across from pier to pier, and crested with
interlacing and cusped semicircles, while the flat field below the cornice and above the outer
moulding of the great arch is covered with flaming cressets. (Fig. 40.)

This is perhaps one of the finest of the tombs of the fifteenth century, and like those at
Alcobaça is made of that very fine limestone which is found in more than one place in Portugal.

[Sidenote: At Abrantes.]

Farther up the Tagus at Abrantes, in the church of Santa Maria do Castello, are some more tombs
of the same date, more than one of which is an almost exact copy of the princes' tombs at Batalha,
though there is one whose arch is fringed with curious reversed cusping, almost Moorish in
appearance.

[Sidenote: Cloister at Thomar.]

Before turning to the many churches built towards the end of the fifteenth century, one of
the cloisters of the great convent at Thomar must be mentioned. It is that called 'do Cemiterio,'
and was built by Prince Henry the Navigator, duke of Vizeu, during his grandmastership of the
Order of Christ about the year 1440. Unlike those at Alcobaça or at Lisbon, which were derived
from a Cistercian plan, and were always intended to be vaulted, this small cloister followed
the plan, handed down from romanesque times, where on each side there is a continuous arcade
resting on coupled shafts. Such cloisters, differing only from the romanesque in having pointed
arches and capitals carved with fourteenth-century foliage, may still be seen at Santo Thyrso
and at São Domingos, Guimarães, in the north. Here at Thomar the only difference is that the
arches are very much wider, there being but five on each side, and that the bell-shaped capitals
are covered with finely carved conventional vine-leaves arranged in two rows round the bells.
As in the older cloisters one long abacus unites the two capitals, but the arches are different,
each being moulded as one deep arch instead of two similar arches set side by side.

CHAPTER VI

LATER GOTHIC

During the last ten or fifteen years of the fifteenth century there was great activity in building
throughout almost the whole country, but it now becomes almost impossible to take the different
buildings in chronological order, because at this time so many different schools began to struggle
for supremacy. There was first the Gothic school which, though increasing in elaboration of
detail, went on in some places almost uninfluenced by any breath of the renaissance, as for
instance in the porch and chancel of Braga Cathedral, not built till about 1532. Elsewhere
this Gothic was affected partly by Spanish and partly by Moorish influence, and gradually grew
into that most curious and characteristic of styles, commonly called Manoelino, from Dom Manoel
under whom Portugal reached the summit of its prosperity. In other places, again, Gothic forms
and renaissance details came gradually to be used together, as at Belem.

To take then first those buildings in which Gothic detail was but little influenced by the
approaching renaissance.

[Sidenote: Graça, Santarem.]

One of the earliest of these is the west front, added towards the end of the fifteenth century
to that Augustinian church of the Graça at Santarem whose roof the Devil knocked down in 1548.
Here the ends of the side aisles are, now at any rate, quite plain, but in the centre there
is a very elaborate doorway with a large rose-window above. It is easy to see that this doorway
has not been uninfluenced by Batalha. From well-moulded jambs, each of which has four shafts,
there springs a large pointed arch, richly fringed with cusping on its inner side. Two of its
many mouldings are enriched with smaller cuspings, and one, the outermost, with a line of wavy
tracery, while the whole ends in a crocketed ogee. Above the arch is a strip of shallow panelling,
enclosed, as is the whole doorway, in a square moulded frame. May it not be that this square
frame is due to the almost universal Moorish habit of setting an archway in a square frame,
as may be seen at Cordoba and in the palace windows at Cintra? The rest of the gable is perfectly
plain but for the round window, filled with elaborate spiral flowing tracery. Here, though
the details are more French than national, there is a good example of the excellent result
so often reached by later Portuguese--and Spanish--builders, who concentrated all their elaborate
ornament on one part of the building while leaving the rest absolutely plain--often as here
plastered and whitewashed.

[Sidenote: São João Baptista, Thomar.]

Not long after this front was built, Dom Manoel in 1494 began a new parish church at Thomar,
that of São João Baptista. The plan of this church is that which has already become so familiar:
a nave and aisles with wooden roof and vaulted chancel and chapels to the east, with here,
the addition of a tower and spire to the north of the west front. The inside calls for little
notice: the arches are pointed, and the capitals carved with not very good foliage, but the
west front is far more interesting. As at the Graça it is plastered and whitewashed, but ends
not in a gable but in a straight line of cresting like Batalha, though here there is no flat
terrace behind, but a sloping tile roof. At the bottom is a large ogee doorway whose tympanum
is pierced with tracery and whose mouldings are covered with most beautiful and deeply undercut
foliage. The outside of the arch is crocketed, and ends in a tall finial thrust through the
horizontal and crested moulding which, as at the Graça, sets the whole in a square frame. There
are also doorways in the same style half-way along the north and south sides of the church.
The only other openings on the west front are a plain untraceried circle above the door, and
a simple ogee-headed window at the end of each aisle.

The tower, which is not whitewashed, rises as a plain unadorned square to a little above the
aisle roof, then turns to an octagon with, at the top, a plain belfry window on each face.
Above these runs a corbelled gallery within which springs an octagonal spire cut into three
by two bands of ornament, and ending in a large armillary sphere, that emblem of all the discoveries
made during his reign, which Dom Manoel put on to every building with which he had anything to do.

Inside the chapels are as usual overloaded with huge reredoses of heavily carved and gilt wood,
but the original pulpit still survives, a most beautiful example of the finest late Gothic
carving. It consists of four sides of an octagon, and stands on ribs which curve outwards from
a central shaft. Round the bottom runs a band of foliage most marvellously undercut, above
this are panels separated the one from the other by slender pinnacles, and the whole ends in
a cornice even more delicately carved than is the base. At the top of each panel is some intricate
tabernacle work, below which there is on one the Cross of the Order of Christ, on another the
royal arms, with a coronet above which stands out quite clear of the panel, and on a third
there has been the armillary sphere, now unfortunately quite broken off. But even more interesting
than this pulpit itself is the comparison between its details and those of the nave or Coro
added about the same time to the Templar church on the hill behind. Here all is purely Gothic,
there there is a mixture of Gothic and renaissance details, and towards the west front an exuberance
of carving which cannot be called either Gothic or anything else, so strange and unusual is it.

[Sidenote: Villa do Conde.]

Another church of almost exactly the same date is that of São João Baptista, the Matriz of
Villa do Conde. The plan shows a nave and aisles of five bays, large transeptal chapels, and
an apsidal chancel projecting beyond the two square chapels by which it is flanked. As usual
the nave and aisles have a wooden roof, only the chancel and chapels being vaulted. There is
also a later tower at the west end of the north aisle, and a choir gallery across the west
end of the church. Throughout the original windows are very narrow and round-headed, and there
is in the north-western bay a pointed door, differing only from those of about a hundred years
earlier in having twisted shafts. One curious feature is the parapet of the central aisle,
which is like a row of small classical pedestals, each bearing a stumpy obelisk. By far the
finest feature of the outside is the great west door. On each side are clusters of square pinnacles
ending in square crocketed spirelets, and running up to a horizontal moulding which, as so
often, gives the whole design a rectangular form. Within comes the doorway itself; a large
trefoiled arch of many mouldings of which the outermost, richly crocketed, turns up as an ogee,
to pierce the horizontal line above with its finial. Every moulding is filled with foliage,
most elaborately and finely cut, considering that it is worked in granite. Across the trefoil
at its springing there runs a horizontal moulding resting on the flat elliptical arch of the
door itself. On the tympanum is a figure of St. John under a very elaborate canopy with, on
his right, a queer carving of a naked man, and on his left a dragon. The space between the
arch and the top moulding is filled with intricate but shallow panelling, among which, between
two armillary spheres, are set, on the right, a blank shield crowned--probably prepared for
the royal arms--and on the left the town arms--a galley with all sails set. Lastly, as a cresting
to the horizontal moulding, there is a row of urnlike objects, the only renaissance features
about the whole door. (Fig. 41.)

Inside, all the piers are octagonal with a slender shaft at each angle; these shafts alone
having small capitals, while their bases stand on, and interpenetrate with, the base of the
whole pier. All the arches are round--as are those leading to the chancel and transept chapels--and
are moulded exactly as are the piers. All the vaults have a network of well-moulded ribs.

The tower has been added some fifty years later and is very picturesque. It is of four stories:
of these the lowest has rusticated masonry; the second, on its western face, a square-headed
window opening beneath a small curly and broken pediment on to a balcony with very fine balusters
all upheld by three large corbels. The third story has only a clock, and the fourth two plain
round-headed belfry windows on each face. The whole--above a shallow cornice which is no bigger
than the mouldings dividing the different stories--ends in a low stone dome, with a bell gable
in front, square below, and arched above, holding two bells.

[Sidenote: Azurara.]

Scarcely a mile away, across the river Ave, lies Azurara, which was made a separate parish
in 1457 and whose church was built by Dom Manoel in 1498.

In plan it is almost exactly the same as Villa do Conde, except that there are no transept
chapels nor any flanking the chancel. Outside almost the only difference lies in the parapet
which is of the usual shape with regular merlons; and in the west door which is an interesting
example of the change to the early renaissance. The door itself is round-headed, and has Gothic
mouldings separated by a broad band covered with shallow renaissance carving. On each side
are twisted shafts which run up some way above the door to a sort of horizontal entablature,
whose frieze is well carved, and which is cut into by a curious ogee moulding springing from
the door arch. Above this entablature the shafts are carried up square for some way, and end
in Gothic pinnacles. Between them is a niche surmounted by a large half-Gothic canopy and united
to the side shafts by a broken and twisted treelike moulding. What adds to the strangeness
of this door is that the blank spaces are plastered and whitewashed, while all the rest of
the church is of grey granite. Higher up there is a round window--heavily moulded--and the
whole gable ends in a queer little round pediment set between two armillary spheres.

Inside the piers are eight-sided with octagonal bases and caps, and with a band of ornament
half-way up the shaft. The arches are simply chamfered but are each crossed by three carved
voussoirs.

The tower is exactly like that at Villa do Conde except that the bottom story is not rusticated,
and that instead of a dome there is an octagonal spire covered with yellow and white tiles.

[Sidenote: Caminha.]

As at Azurara, the parish church of Santa Maria dos Anjos at Caminha is in plan very like the
Matriz at Villa do Conde. Caminha lies on the Portuguese side of the estuary of the Minho,
close to its mouth, and the church was begun in 1488, but was not finished till the next century,
the tower indeed not being built till 1556. Like the others, the plan shows a nave and rather
narrow aisles of five bays, and two square vaulted chapels with an apsidal chancel between
to the east. Three large vaulted chapels and the tower have been added, opening from the north
aisle. Probably the oldest part is the chancel with its flanking chapels, which are very much
more elaborate than any portion of the churches already described. There are at the angles
deep square buttresses which end in groups of square spire-capped pinnacles all elaborately
crocketed, and not at all unlike those at Batalha. Between these, in the chancel are narrow
round-headed windows, whose mouldings are enriched with large four-leaved flowers, and on all
the walls from buttress to buttress there runs a rich projecting cornice crowned by a wonderfully
pierced and crested parapet; also not unlike those at Batalha, but more wonderful in that it
is made of granite instead of fine limestone. The rest of the outside is much plainer, except
for the two doorways, and two tall buttresses at the west end. These two doorways--which are
among the most interesting in the country--must be a good deal later than the rest of the church,
indeed could not have been designed till after the work of that foreign school of renaissance
carvers at Coimbra had become well known, and so really belong to a later chapter.

Inside the columns are round, with caps and bases partly round and partly eight-sided, the
hollow octagons interpenetrating with the circular mouldings. The arches of the arcade are
also round, though those of the chancel and eastern chapels are pointed. Attached to one of
the piers is a small eight-sided pulpit, at whose angles are Gothic pinnacles, but whose sides
and base are covered with cherubs' heads, vases, and foliage of early renaissance.

But the chief glory of the interior are the splendid tiles with which its walls are entirely
covered, and still more the wonderful wooden roof, one of the finest examples of Moorish carpentry
to be found anywhere, and which, like the doorways, can now only be merely mentioned.

The tower, added by Diogo Eannes in 1556, is quite plain with one belfry opening in each face
close to the top and just below the low parapet which, resting on corbels, ends in a row of
curious half-classic battlements.[90]

[Sidenote: Funchal.]

This plan was not confined only to parish churches, for about 1514 we find it used by Dom Manoel
at Funchal for the cathedral of the newly founded diocese of Madeira. The only difference of
importance is that there is a well-developed transept entered by arches of the same height
as that of the chancel. Here the piers are clustered, and with rather poorly carved capitals,
the arches pointed and moulded, but rather thin. As in the other churches of this date, the
round-headed clerestory windows come over the piers, not over the arches. The chancel, which
is rather deeper than usual, is entered by a wide foliated arch, and like the apsidal chapels
is vaulted. As at Caminha, the nave roof is of Moorish design, but of even greater interest
are the reredos and the choir-stalls. This reredos is three divisions in height and five in
width--each division, except the two lower in the centre where there is a niche for the image
of the Virgin, containing a large picture.

The divisions are separated perpendicularly by a series of Gothic pinnacles, and horizontally
by a band of Gothic tabernacle work at the bottom, and above by beautifully carved early renaissance
friezes. The whole ends in a projecting canopy, divided into five bays, each bay enriched with
vaulting ribs, and in front with very delicately carved hanging tracery. Above the horizontal
cornice is a most elaborate cresting of interlacing trefoils and leaves having in the middle
the royal arms with on each side an armillary sphere. Some of the detail of the cresting is
not all unlike that of the great reredos in the Sé Velha at Coimbra, and like it has a Flemish
look, so that it may have been made perhaps, if not by Master Vlimer, who finished his work
at Coimbra in 1508, at any rate by one of his pupils. The stalls, which at the back are separated
by Gothic pilasters and pinnacles, have also a continuous canopy, and a high and splendid cresting,
which though Gothic in general appearance, is quite renaissance in detail.

Outside, the smaller eastern chapels have an elaborate cresting, and tall twisted pinnacles.
The large plain tower which rises east of the north transept has a top crowned with battlements,
within which stands a square tile-covered spire.

[Sidenote: Sé, Lamego.]

Before going on to discuss the long-continued influence of the Moors, three buildings in which
Gothic finally came to an end must be discussed. These are the west front of Lamego, the cathedral
of Vizeu, and the porch and chancel of the Sé at Braga. Except for its romanesque tower and
its west front the cathedral of Lamego has been entirely rebuilt; and of the west front only
the lower part remains uninjured. This front is divided by rather elaborate buttresses into
three nearly equal parts--for the side aisles are nearly as wide as the central. In each of
these is a large pointed doorway, that in the centre being at once wider and considerably higher
than those of the aisles. The central door has six moulded shafts on either side, all with
elaborately carved capitals and with deeply undercut foliage in the hollows between, this foliage
being carried round the whole arch between the mouldings. Above the top of the arch runs a
band of flat, early renaissance carving with a rich Gothic cresting above.

The side-doors are exactly similar, except that they have fewer shafts, four instead of six,
and that in the hollows between the mouldings the carving is early renaissance in character
and is also flatter than in the central door. Above runs the same band of carving--but lower
down--and a similar but simpler cresting.

[Sidenote: Sé, Vizeu.]

Unlike Lamego, while the cathedral of Vizeu has been but little altered within, scarcely any
of the original work is to be seen outside. The present cathedral was built by Bishop Dom Diego
Ortiz de Vilhegas about the year 1513, and his arms as well as those of Dom Manoel and of two
of his sons are found on the vault. The church is not large, having a nave and aisles of four
bays measuring about 105 feet by 62; square transept chapels, and a seventeenth-century chancel
with flanking chapels. To the west are two towers, built between the years 1641 and 1671, and
on the south a very fine renaissance cloister of two stories, the lower having been built,
it is said, in 1524,[91] and the upper about 1730. A choir gallery too, with an elaborate Gothic
vault below and a fine renaissance balustrade, crosses the whole west end and extends over
the porch between the two western towers. But if the cathedral in its plan follows the ordinary
type, in design and in construction it is quite unique. Instead of there being a wooden roof
as is usual in churches of this period, the whole is vaulted, and that too in a very unusual
and original manner. Throughout the piers consist of twelve rounded shafts set together. Of
these the five towards the central aisle are several feet higher than the other seven from
which spring the aisle arches as well as the ribs of the aisle vault. Consequently the vault
of the central aisle is considerably lower at the sides than it is in the middle, and in this
ingenious way its thrust is counteracted by the vaults of the side aisles; and at the same
time these side vaults are not highly stilted as they would of necessity have been, had the
three aisles been of exactly the same height. All the ribs are of considerable projection and
well moulded, and of all, except the diagonal ribs, the lowest moulding is twisted like a rope.
This rope-moulding is repeated on all the ridge ribs, and in each it is tied in a knot half-way
along, a knot which is so much admired that the whole vault is called 'a abobada dos nós' or
vault of the knots.

The capitals are more curious than beautiful; the lower have clumsy, early-looking foliage
and a large and curious abacus. First each capital has a square abacus of some depth, then
comes a large flat circle, one for each three caps, and at the top a star-shaped moulding of
hollow curves, the points projecting beyond the middle of the square abaci below. The higher
capitals are better. They are carved with more elaborate foliage and gilt, and the abaci follow
more exactly the line of the caps below and are carved and gilded in the same way. (Fig. 42.)

Perhaps, however, the chief interest of the cathedral is found in the sacristy, a fine large
room opening from the north transept chapel. On its tiled walls there hang several large and
some smaller paintings, of which the finest is that of St. Peter. Other pictures are found
in the chapter-house, and a fine one of the crucifixion in the Jesus Chapel below it; but this
is not the place to enter into the very difficult question of Portuguese painting, a question
on which popular tradition throws only a misleading light by attributing everything to a more
or less mythical painter, Grão Vasco, and on which all authorities differ, agreeing only in
considering this St. Peter one of the finest paintings in the country.

[Sidenote: Sé, Braga.]

Perhaps the chancel of the cathedral at Braga ought rather

to be left to a chapter dealing with what is usually called the Manoelino style--that strange
last development of Gothic which is found only in Portugal--but it is in many respects so like
the choir chapels of the church at Caminha, and has so little of the usual Manoelino peculiarities,
that it were better to describe it now. Whatever may be thought of the chancel, there is no
doubt about the large western porch, which is quite free of any Manoelino fantasies.

Both porch and chancel were built by Archbishop Dom Diego de Souza about the year 1530--a most
remarkable date when the purely Gothic work here is compared with buildings further south,
where Manoelino had already been succeeded by various forms of the classic renaissance. The
porch stretches right across the west end of the church, and is of three bays. That in the
centre, considerably wider than those at the side, is entered from the west by a round-headed
arch, while the arches of the others are pointed. The bays are separated by buttresses of considerable
projection, and all the arches, which have good late mouldings, are enriched with a fine feathering
of cusps, which stands out well against the dark interior. Unfortunately the original parapet
is gone, only the elaborate canopies of the niches, of which there are two to each bay, rise
above the level of the flat paved roof. Inside there is a good vault with many well-moulded
ribs, but the finest feature of it all is the wrought-iron railing which crosses each opening.
This, almost the only piece of wrought-iron work worthy of notice in the whole country, is
very like contemporary screens in Spain. It is made of upright bars, some larger, twisted from
top to bottom, some smaller twisted at the top, and plain below, alternating with others plain
above and twisted below. At the top runs a frieze of most elaborate hammered and pierced work--early
renaissance in detail in the centre, Gothic in the side arches, above which comes in the centre
a wonderful cresting. In the middle, over the gate which rises as high as the top of the cresting,
is a large trefoil made of a flat hammered band intertwined with a similar band after the manner
of a Manoelino doorway.[92] (Fig. 43.)

Of the chancel little has been left inside but the vault and the tombs of Dona Theresa (the
first independent ruler of Portugal) and of her husband Count Henry of Burgundy--very poor
work of about the same date as the chancel. The outside, however, has been unaltered. Below
it is square in plan, becoming at about twenty feet from the ground a half-octagon having the
eastern a good deal wider than the diagonal sides. On the angles of the lower square stand
tall clustered buttresses, rising independently of the wall as far as the projecting cornice,
across which their highest pinnacles cut, and united to the chancel at about a third of the
height, by small but elaborate flying buttresses. On the eastern face there is a simple pointed
window, and there is nothing else to relieve the perfectly plain walls below except two string
courses, and the elaborate side buttresses with their tall pinnacles and twisted shafts. But
if the walling is plain the cornice is most elaborate. It is of great depth and of considerable
projection, the hollows of the mouldings being filled with square flowers below and intricate
carving above. On this stands a high parapet of traceried quatrefoils, bearing a horizontal
moulding from which springs an elaborate cresting; all being almost exactly like the cornice
and parapet at Caminha, but larger and richer, and like it, a marvellous example of carving
in granite. At the angles are tall pinnacles, and the pinnacles of the corner buttresses are
united to the parapet by a curious contorted moulding.

[Sidenote: Conceiçao, Braga.]

Opposite the east end of the cathedral there stands a small tower built in 1512 by Archdeacon
João de Coimbra as a chapel. It is of two stories, with a vaulted chapel below and a belfrey
above, lit by round-headed windows, only one of which retains its tracery. Just above the string
which divides the two stories are statues[93] under canopies, one projecting on a corbel from
each corner, and one from the middle, while above a cornice, on which stand short pinnacles,
six to each side, the tower ends in a low square tile roof. The chapel on the ground floor
is entered by a porch, whose flat lintel rests on moulded piers at the angles and on two tall
round columns in the centre, while its three openings are filled with plain iron screens, the
upper part of which blossoms out into large iron flowers and leaves. Inside there is on the
east wall a reredos of early renaissance date, and on the south a large half-classical arch
flanked by pilasters under which there is a life-size group of the Entombment made seemingly
of terra cotta and painted.

So, rather later than in most other lands, and many years after the renaissance had made itself
felt in other parts of the country, Gothic comes to an end, curiously enough not far from where
the oldest Christian buildings are found.

CHAPTER VII

THE INFLUENCE OF THE MOORS

It is now time to turn back for a century and a half and to speak of the traces left by the
Moors of their long occupation of the country. Although they held what is now the northern
half of Portugal for over a hundred years, and part of the south for about five hundred, there
is hardly a single building anywhere of which we can be sure that it was built by them before
the Christian re-conquest of the country. Perhaps almost the only exceptions are the fortifications
at Cintra, known as the Castello dos Mouros, the city walls at Silves, and possibly the church
at Mertola. In Spain very many of their buildings still exist, such as the small mosque, now
the church of Christo de la Luz, and the city walls at Toledo, and of course the mosque at
Cordoba and the Alcazar at Seville, not to speak of the Alhambra. Yet it must not be forgotten
that, while Portugal reached its furthest limits by the capture of the Algarve under Affonso
III. about the middle of the thirteenth century, in Spain the progress was slower. Toledo indeed
fell in 1085, but Cordoba and Seville were only taken a few years before the capture of the
Algarve, and Granada was able to hold out till 1492. Besides, in what is now Portugal there
had been no great capital like Cordoba. And yet, though this is so, hardly a town or a village
exists in which some slight trace of their art cannot be found, even if it be but a tile-lining
to the walls of church or house. In such towns as Toledo, Moorish builders were employed not
only in the many parish churches but even in the cathedral, and in Portugal we find Moors at
Thomar even as late as the beginning of the sixteenth century, when such names as Omar, Mafamedi,
Bugimaa, and Bebedim occur in the list of workmen.

It is chiefly in three directions that Moorish influence made itself felt, in actual design,
in carpentry, and in tiling, and of these the last two, and especially tiling, are the most
general, and long survived the disappearance of Arab detail.

[Sidenote: Cintra.]

Some eighteen miles from Lisbon, several sharp granite peaks rise high above an undulating
tableland. Two of these are encircled by the old Moorish fortification which climbs up and
down over huge granite boulders, and on a projecting spur near their foot, and to the north,
there stands the old palace of Cintra. As long as the Walis ruled at Lisbon, it was to Cintra
that they came in summer for hunting and cool air, and some part at least of their palace seems
to have survived till to-day.

Cintra was first taken by Alfonso VI. of Castile and Leon in 1093--to be soon lost and retaken
by Count Henry of Burgundy sixteen years later, but was not permanently held by the Christians
till Affonso Henriques expelled the Moors in 1147. The Palace of the Walis was soon granted
by him to Gualdim Paes, the famous grand master of the Templars, and was held by his successors
till it was given to Dom Diniz's queen, St. Isabel. She died in 1336, when the palace returned
to the Order of Christ--which had meanwhile been formed out of the suppressed Order of the
Temple--only to be granted to Dona Beatriz, the wife of D. Affonso IV., in exchange for her
possessions at Ega and at Torre de Murta. Dom João I. granted the palace in 1385 to Dom Henrique
de Vilhena, but he soon sided with the Spaniards, for he was of Spanish birth, his possessions
were confiscated and Cintra returned to the Crown. Some of the previous kings may have done
something to the palace, but it was King João who first made it one of the chief royal residences,
and who built a very large part of it.

A few of the walls have been examined by taking off the plaster, and have been found to be
built in the usual Arab manner, courses of rubble bonded at intervals with bands of thin bricks
two or three courses deep. Such are the back wall of the entrance hall and a thick wall near
the kitchen. Outside all the walls are plastered, all the older windows, of one or two lights,
are enclosed in square frames--for the later windows of Dom Manoel's time are far more elaborate
and fantastic--and most of the walls end in typical Moorish battlements. High above the dark
tile roofs there tower the two strange kitchen chimneys, huge conical spires ending in round
funnels, now all plastered, but once covered with a pattern of green and white tiles.

The whole is so extremely complicated that without a plan it would be almost useless to attempt
a description. Speaking roughly, all that lies to the west of the Porte Cochère which leads
from the entrance court through to the kitchen court and stables beyond is, with certain alterations
and additions, the work of Dom João, and all that lies to the east is the work of Dom Manoel,
added during the first years of the sixteenth century. Entering through a pointed gateway,
one finds oneself in a long and irregular courtyard, having on the right hand a long low building
in which live the various lesser palace officials, and on the left, first a comparatively modern
projecting building in which live the ladies-in-waiting, then somewhat further back the rooms
of the controller of the palace and his office. From the front wall of this office, which itself
juts out some feet into the courtyard, there runs eastwards a high balustraded terrace reaching
as far as another slightly projecting wing, and approached by a great flight of steps at its
western end. Not far beyond the east end of the terrace an inclined road leads to the Porte
Cochère, and beyond it are the large additions made by Dom Manoel. (Fig. 44.)

On this terrace stands the main front of the palace. Below are four large pointed arches, and
above five beautiful windows lighting the great Sala dos Cysnes or Swan Hall. Originally these
four arches were open and led into a large vaulted hall; now they are all built up--perhaps
by Dona Maria I. after the great earthquake--three having small two-light windows, and one
a large door, the chief entrance to the palace. In the back wall of this hall may still be
seen three windows which must have existed before it was built, for what is now their inner
side was evidently at first their outer; and this wall is one of those found to be built in
the Arab manner, so that clearly Dom João's hall was built in front of a part of the Walis'
palace, a part which has quite disappeared except for this wall.

From the east end of this lower hall a straight stair, which looks as if it had once been an
outside stair, leads up to a winding stair by which another hall is reached, whose floor lies
at a level of about 26 feet above the terrace.[94] From this hall, which may be of later date
than Dom João's time, a door leads down to the central pateo or courtyard, or else going up
a few steps the way goes through a smaller square room, once an open verandah, through a wide
doorway inserted by Dom Manoel into the great Swan Hall. This hall, the largest room in the
palace, measuring about 80 feet long by 25 wide, is so called from the swans painted in the
eight-sided panels of its wonderful roof. The story is that while the palace was still building
ambassadors came to the king from the duke of Burgundy asking for the hand of his daughter
Isabel. Among other presents they brought some swans, which so pleased the young princess that
she made them collars of red velvet and persuaded her father to build for them a long narrow
tank in the central court just under the north windows of this hall. Here she used to feed
them till she went away to Flanders, and from love of his daughter King João had the swans
with their collars painted on the ceiling of the hall. The swans may still be seen, but not
those painted for Dom João, for all the mouldings clearly show that the present ceiling was
reconstructed some centuries later. The hall is lit by five windows looking south across the
entrance court to the Moorish castle on the hill beyond, and by three looking over the swan
tank into the central pateo.

These windows, and indeed all those in Dom João's part of the palace, are very like each other.
They are nearly all of two lights--never of more--and are made of white marble. In every case
there is a square-headed moulded frame enclosing the whole window, the outer mouldings of this
frame resting on small semicircular corbels, and having Gothic bases. Inside this framework
stand three slender shafts, with simple bases and carved capitals. These capitals are not at
all unlike French capitals of the thirteenth century, but are really of a common Moorish pattern
often found elsewhere, as in the Alhambra. On them, moulded at the ends, but not in front or
behind, rest abaci, from which spring stilted arches. (Fig. 45.)

Each arch is delicately moulded and elaborately cusped, but, though in some cases--for the
shape varies in almost every window--each individual cusp may have the look of a Gothic trefoil,
the arrangement is not Gothic at all. There are far more than are ever found in a Gothic window,
sometimes as many as eleven, and they usually begin at the bottom with a whole instead of a
half cusp. From the centre of each abacus, cutting across the arch mouldings, another moulding
runs up, which being returned across the top encloses the upper part of each light in a smaller
square frame. It is this square frame which more than anything else gives these windows their
Eastern look, and it has been shown how often, and indeed almost universally a square framing
was put round doorways all through the last Gothic

period. In only one instance are the shafts anything but plain, and that is in the central
window overlooking the entrance court, where they are elaborately twisted, and where also they
start at the level of the floor within instead of standing on a low parapet.

In the room itself the walls up to a certain height are covered with tiles, diamonds of white
and a beautiful olive green which are much later than Dom João's time. There is also near the
west end of the north side a large fireplace projecting slightly from the wall; at either end
stands a shaft with cap and base like those of the windows, bearing a long flat moulded lintel,
while on the hearth there rest two very fine wrought-iron Gothic fire-dogs.

East of the fireplace a door having a wide flat ogee head leads into a small porch built in
the corner of the pateo to protect the passage to the Sala das Pegas, the first of the rooms
to the south of this pateo.

In the angle formed by the end wall of the Sala dos Cysnes and the side of the Sala das Pegas
there is a small low room now called the Sala de Dom Sebastião or do Conselho. It is entered
from the west end of the Swan Hall through a door, which was at first a window just like all
the rest. This Hall of Dom Sebastião or of the Council is so called from the tradition that
it was there that in 1578 that unhappy king held the council in which it was decided to invade
Morocco, an expedition which cost the king his life and his country her independence. In reality
the final solemn council was held in Lisbon, but some informal meeting may well have been held
there. Now the room is low and rather dark, being lit only by two small windows opening above
the roof of the controller's office. It is divided into two unequal parts by an arcade of three
arches, the smaller part between the arches and the south wall being raised a step above the
rest. When first built by Dom João this raised part formed a covered verandah, the rest being,
till about the time of Maria I., open to the sky and forming a charming and cool retreat during
the heat of summer. The floor is of tiles and marble, and all along the south wall runs a bench
entirely covered with beautiful tiles. At the eastern end is a large seat, rather higher than
the bench and provided with arms, doubtless for the king, and tiled like the rest.

Passing again from the Swan Hall the way leads through the porch into the Sala das Pegas or
of the magpies. The door from the porch to the room is one of the most beautiful parts of Dom
João's work. It is framed as are the windows, and has shafts, capitals, abaci, and bases just
like those already described; but the arch is different. It is beautifully moulded, but is--if
one may so speak--made up of nine reversed cusps, whose convex sides form the arch: the inner
square moulding too is enriched with ball ornament. Inside the walls are covered to half their
height with exquisite tiles of Moorish pattern, blue, green and brown on a white ground.

On the north wall is a great white marble chimney-piece, once a present from Pope Leo X. to
Dom Manoel and brought by the great Marques de Pombal from the ruined palace of Almeirim opposite
Santarem. Two other doors, with simple pointed heads, lead one into the dining-room, and one
into the Sala das Sereias. The Sala das Pegas, like the Swan Hall, is called after its ceiling,
for on it are painted in 136 triangular compartments, 136 magpies, each holding in one foot
a red rose and in its beak a scroll inscribed 'Por Bem.' Possibly this ceiling, which on each
side slopes up to a flat parallelogram, is more like that painted for Dom João than is that
of the Swan Hall, but even here some of the mouldings are clearly renaissance, and the painting
has been touched up, but anyhow it was already called Camera das Pegas in the time of Dom Duarte;
further, tradition tells that the magpies were painted there by Dom João's orders, and why.
It seems that once during the hour of the midday siesta the king, wandering about his unfinished
house, found in this room one of the maids of honour. Her he kissed, when another maid immediately
went and told the queen, Philippa of Lancaster. She was angry, but Dom João only said 'Por
bem,' meaning much what his queen's grandfather had meant when he said 'Honi soit qui mal y
pense,' and to remind the maids of honour, whose waiting-room this was, that they must not
tell tales, he had the magpies painted on the ceiling.

The two windows, one looking west and one into the pateo, are exactly like those already described.

From the Sala das Pegas one door leads up a few steps into the Sala das Sereias, and another
to the dining-room. This Sala das Sereias, so called from the mermaids painted on the ceiling,
is a small room some eighteen feet square. It is lit by a two-light window opening towards
the courtyard, a window just like those of the Sala das Pegas and of the Sala dos Cysnes. Some
of its walls, especially that between it and the Sala das Pegas, are very thick and seem to
be older than the time of Dom João. As usual, the walls are partly covered with beautiful tiles,
mostly embossed with green vine-leaves, but round the door leading to the long narrow room,
used as a servery, is an interlacing pattern of green and blue tiles, while the spandrils between
this and the pointed doorhead are filled with a true Arabesque pattern, dark on a light ground,
which is said to belong to the Palace of the Walis. There are altogether four doors, one leading
to the servery, one to the Sala das Pegas, one to a spiral stair in the corner of the pateo,
and one to the dining-room.

This dining-room projects somewhat to the west so as to leave space for a window looking south
to the mountains, and one looking north across a small court, as well as one looking west.
Of these, the two which look south and west are like each other, and like the other of Dom
João's time except that the arches are not cusped; that the outer frame is omitted and that
the abaci are moulded in front as well as at the ends; but the third window looking north is
rather different. The framing has regular late Gothic bases, the capitals of the shafts are
quite unlike the rest, having one large curly leaf at each angle, and the moulding running
up the centre between the arches--which are not cusped--is plaited instead of being plain.
Altogether it looks as if it were later than Dom João's time, for it is the only window where
the capitals are not of the usual Arab form, and they are not at all like some in the castle
of Sempre Noiva built about the beginning of the sixteenth century.

The wall-tiles of the dining-room are like those of the Sala das Sereias, but end in a splendid
cresting. The ceiling is modern and uninteresting.

Next to the north comes the servery, a room without interest but for its window which looks
west, and is like the two older dining-room windows.

Returning to the Sala das Sereias, a spiral stair leads down to the central pateo, which can
also be reached from the porch in the south-west corner. All along the south side runs the
tank made by Dom João for his daughter's swans, and on three sides are beautiful white marble
windows. At the east end of the north side three open arches lead to the bathroom. As is the
case with the windows, the three arches are enclosed in a square frame. The capitals, however,
are different, having an eight-sided bell on which rests a square block with a bud carved at
each angle, and above an abacus, moulded all round. The arches are cusped like the windows,
but are stilted and segmental. Inside is a recess framed in an arch of Dom Manoel's time, and
from all over the tiled walls and the ceiling jets of water squirt out, so that the whole becomes
a great shower-bath, delightful and cooling on a hot day but rather public. In the middle of
the pateo there stands a curious column--not at all unlike the 'pelourinho'[95] of Cintra--which
stands in a basin just before the entrance gate. This column is formed of three twisted shafts
on whose capitals sit a group of boys holding three shields charged with the royal arms. All
round the court is a dado of white and green tiles arranged in an Arab pattern.

In the north-west corner and reached by the same spiral stair, but at a higher level than the
Sala das Sereias, is the Sala dos Arabes, so called because it is commonly believed to be a
part of the original building. The walls may be so, but of the rest, nothing, but perhaps the
shallow round fountain basin in the middle and the square of tiles which surrounds it, now
so worn that little of their glazed surface is left. The walls half-way up are lined with tiles,
squares and parallelograms, blue, white and green. The doors are framed in different tiles,
and all are finished with an elaborate cresting. The most interesting thing in the room is
the circular basin in the middle--a basin which gives it a truly Eastern look. Inside a round
shallow hollow there stands a many-sided block of marble about six inches high. The sides are
concave as in a small section of a Doric column, and within it is hollowed into a beautiful
cup, shaped somewhat like a flower of many petals. In the middle there now is a strange object
of gilt metal through which the water once poured. On a short stem stands a carefully modelled
dish on which rest first leaves, like long acanthus leaves, then between them birds on whose
backs sit small figures of boys. Between the boys and above the leaves are more figures exactly
like seated Indian gods, and the whole ends in a cone. It is so completely Indian in appearance
that there can be little doubt but that it is really of Indian origin, and perhaps it is not
too much to see in it part of the spoils brought to Dom Manoel by Vasco da Gama after he had
in 1498 made his way round Africa to Calicut and back.

Returning to the Sala das Sereias and passing through the servery and another room an open
court is reached called the Pateo de Diana, from a fountain over which Diana presides, and
on to which one of the dining-room windows looks. A beautifully tiled stair--these tiles are
embossed like those of the dining-room, but besides vine-leaves some have on them bunches of
grapes--goes down from the Court of Diana to the Court of the Lion, the Pateo do Leão, where
a lion spouts into a long tank. But the chief beauty of these two courts is a small window
which overlooks them. This window is only of one light, and like the dining-room window near
it its framing has Gothic bases. The capitals are smaller than in the other windows, and the
framing partly covers the outer moulding of the window arch, making it look like a segment
of a circle. But the cusps are the most curious part. They form four more or less trefoiled
spaces with wavy outlines, and two of them--not the remaining one at the top--end in large
well-carved vine-leaves, very like those at the ends of the cusps on the arches in the Capella
do Fundador at Batalha. To add to the charm of the window, the space between the top of the
arch and the framing is filled in with those beautiful tiles embossed with vine-leaves.

Going up again to the Sala dos Arabes, a door in the northern wall leads to a passage running
northwards to the chapel. About half-way along the passage another branches off to the right
towards the great kitchen.

The chapel stands at the northern edge of the palace buildings, having beyond it a terrace
called the Terreiro da Meca or of Mecca; partly from this name, and partly from the tiles which
still cover the middle of the floor it is believed that the chapel stands exactly on the site
of the Walis' private mosque, with perhaps the chancel added.

The middle of the nave--the chapel consists of a nave and chancel, two small transeptal recesses,
and two galleries one above the other at the west end--is paved with tiles once glazed and
of varying colours, but now nearly all worn down till the natural red shows through. The pattern
has been elaborate; a broad border of diagonal checks surrounding a narrow oblong in which
the checks are crossed by darker lines so as to form octagons, and between the outer border
and the octagons a band of lighter ground down which in the middle runs a coloured line having
on each side cones of the common Arab pattern exactly like the palace battlements.

Now the walls are bare and white, but were once covered with frescoes of the fifteenth century;
the reredos is a clumsy addition of the eighteenth century.

The cornice and the long pilasters at the entrance to the chancel seem to have been added at
the same time, but the windows and ceiling are still those of Dom João's time. The windows--there
are now three, a fourth in the chancel having been turned into a royal pew--are of two or three
lights, have commonplace tracery, and are only interesting as being one of the few wholly Gothic
features in the palace.

Far more interesting is the ceiling, which is entirely Arab in construction and in design.
In the nave it is an irregular polygon in section, and in the chancel is nearly a semicircle,
having nine equal sides. The whole of the boarded surface is entirely covered with an intricate
design formed of strips of wood crossing each other in every direction so as to form stars,
triangles, octagons, and figures of every conceivable shape. The whole still retains its original
colouring. At the centres of the main figures are gilt bosses--the one over the high altar
being a shield with the royal arms--the wooden strips are black with a white groove down the
centre of each, and the ground is either dark red or light blue. (Fig. 46.)

The whole is of great interest not only for its own sake, but because it is the only ceiling
in the palace which has remained unchanged since the end of the fourteenth century, and because
it is, as it were, the parent of the splendid roofs in the Sala dos Cysnes and of the still
more wonderful one in the Sala dos Escudos.

The kitchen lies at the back of the chapel and at right angles to it. It is a building about
58 feet long by 25 wide, and is divided into two equal parts by a large arch. Each of these
two parts is covered by a huge conical chimney so that the inside is more like the nave of
St. Ours at Loches than anything else, while outside these chimneys rise high above all the
rest of the palace. It is lit by small two-light Gothic windows, and has lately been lined
with white tiles. Now the

chimneys serve only as ventilators, as ordinary iron ranges have been put in. There seems to
be nothing in the country at all like these chimneys--for the kitchen at Alcobaça, although
it has a stream running through it, is but a poor affair compared with this one, nor is its
chimney in any way remarkable outside.[96]

The rest of the palace towards the west, between the west end of the chapel and the great square
tower in which is the Sala dos Escudos, was probably also built about the time of Dom João
I., but except for a few windows there is little of interest left which belongs to his time.

The great tower of the Sala dos Escudos was built by Dom Manoel on the top of an older building
then called the Casa da Meca, in which Affonso V. was born in 1432--the year before his grandfather
Dom João died--and where he himself died forty-nine years later. In another room on a higher
floor--where his feet, as he walked up and down day after day, have quite worn away the tiles--Affonso
VI. was imprisoned. Affonso had by his wildness proved himself quite unable to govern, and
had also made himself hated by his queen, a French princess. She fell in love with his brother,
so Affonso was deposed, divorced, and banished to the Azores. After some years it was found
that he was there trying to form a party, so he was brought to Cintra and imprisoned in this
room from 1674 till his death in 1683. These worn-out tiles are worthy of notice for their
own sake since tiles with Moorish patterns, as are these here and those in the chapel, are
very seldom used for flooring, and they are probably among the oldest in the palace.

[Sidenote: Castles, Guimarães and Barcellos.]

Such was the palace from the time of João I. to that of Dom Manoel, a building thoroughly Eastern
in plan as in detail, and absolutely unlike such contemporary buildings as the palaces of the
dukes of Braganza at Guimarães or at Barcellos, or the castle at Villa da Feira between Oporto
and Aveiro. The Braganza palaces are both in ruins, but their details are all such as might
be found almost anywhere in Christian Europe. Large pointed doors, traceried windows and tall
chimneys--these last round and of brick--differ only from similar features found elsewhere,
as one dialect may differ from another, whereas Cintra is, as it were, built in a

[Sidenote: Villa da Feira.]

totally different language. The castle at Villa da Feira is even more unlike anything at Cintra.
A huge keep of granite, the square turrets projecting slightly from the corners give it the
look of a Norman castle, for the curious spires of brick now on those turrets were added later,
perhaps under Dom Manoel. Inside there is now but one vast hall with pointed barrel roof, for
all the wooden floors are gone, leaving only the beam holes in the walls, the Gothic fireplaces,
and the small windows to show where they once were.

It is then no wonder that Cintra has been called the Alhambra of Portugal, and it is curious
that the same names are found given to different parts of the two buildings. The Alhambra has
a Mirador de Lindaraxa, Cintra a Jardim de Lindaraya; the Alhambra a Torre de las dos Hermanas,
Cintra a Sala das Irmãs or of the Sisters--the part under the Sala dos Escudos where Affonso
V. was born; while both at the Alhambra and here there is a garden called de las or das Damas.

CHAPTER VIII

OTHER MOORISH BUILDINGS

The old palace at Cintra is perhaps the only complete building to the north of the Tagus designed
and carried out by Moorish workmen scarcely, if at all, influenced by what the conquering Christians
were doing round them. Further south in the province of Alemtejo Moorish buildings are more
common, and there are many in which, though the design and plan as well as most of the detail
may be Western, yet there is something, the whitewashed walls, the round conical pinnacles,
or the flat roofs which give them an Eastern look.

And this is natural. Alemtejo was conquered after the country north of the Tagus had been for
some time Christian, and no large immigration of Christians ever came to take the place of
the Moors, so that those few who remained continued for long in their own Eastern ways of building
and of agriculture.

It is especially in and about the town of Evora that this is seen, and that too although the
cathedral built at the end of the twelfth century is, except for a few unimportant details,
a Western building.

[Sidenote: Alvito.]

But more completely Eastern than any one building at Evora is the castle at Alvito, a small
town some thirty or forty miles to the south-west. The town stands at the end of a long low
hill and looks south over an endless plain across to Beja, one of the most extensive and, in
its way, beautiful views in the country.

At one end of the town on the slope of the hill stands the castle, and not far off in one of
the streets is the town hall whose tower is too characteristic of the Alemtejo not to be noticed.
The building is whitewashed and perfectly plain, with ordinary square windows. An outside stair
leads to the upper story, and behind it rises the tower. It, like the building, is absolutely
plain with semicircular openings near the top irregularly divided by a square pier. Close above
these openings is a simple cornice on which stand rather high and narrow battlements; within
them rises a short eight-sided spire, and at each corner a short round turret capped by a conical
roof. The whole from top to bottom is plastered and whitewashed, and it is this glaring whiteness
more than anything else which gives to the whole so Eastern a look.

As to the castle, Haupt in his most interesting book, Die Baukunst der Renaissance in Portugal,
says that, though he had never seen it, yet from descriptions of its plan he had come to the
conclusion that it was the castle which, according to Vasari, was built by Andrea da Sansovino
for Dom João II. Now it is well known that Sansovino was for nine years in Portugal and did
much work there, but none of it can now be found except perhaps a beautiful Italian door in
the palace at Cintra; Vasari also states that he did some work in the heavy and native style
which the king liked. Is it possible that the castle of Alvito is one of his works in this
native style?

Vasari says that Sansovino built for Dom João a beautiful palace with four towers, and that
part of it was decorated by him with paintings, and it was because Haupt believed that this
castle was built round an arcaded court--a regular Italian feature, but one quite unknown in
Portugal--that he thought it must be Sansovino's lost palace.

As a matter of fact the court is not arcaded--there is only a row of rough plastered arches
along one side; there are five and not four towers; there is no trace now of any fine painted
decoration inside; and, in short, it is inconceivable that, even to please a king, an architect
of the Italian renaissance could ever have designed such a building.

The plan of the castle is roughly square with a round tower at three of the corners, and at
the fourth or southern corner a much larger tower, rounded in front and projecting further
from the walls. The main front is turned to the south-west, and on that side, as well as on
the south-eastern, are the habitable parts of the castle. Farm buildings run along inside and
outside the north-western, while the north-eastern side is bounded only by a high wall.

Half-way along the main front is the entrance gate, a plain pointed arch surmounted by two
shields, that on the right charged with the royal arms, and that on the left with those of
the Barão d'Alvito, to whose descendant, the Marques d'Alvito, the castle still belongs. There
is also an inscription stating that the castle, begun in 1494 by the orders of Dom João II.
and finished in the time of Dom Manoel, was built by Dom Diogo Lobo, Barão d'Alvito.[97]

