THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 14, No. 380.]   SATURDAY, JULY 11, 1829.   [PRICE 2d.

MERCERS' HALL, AND CHEAPSIDE

The engraving is an interesting illustration of the architecture of the metropolis in the seventeenth
century, independent of its local association with names illustrious in historical record.

In former times, when persons of the same trade congregated together in some particular street,
the mercers principally assembled in West Cheap, now called Cheapside, near where the above
hall stands, and thence called by the name of "the Mercery." In Lydgate's London Lyckpenny,
are the following lines alluding to this custom:

  Then to Chepe I began me drawne,
  When much people I saw for to stand;
  One offered me velvet, silk and lawne
  And another he taketh me by the hand.
  Here is Paris thread, the finest in the land.

Pennant thus describes the principal historical data of the spot:

"On the north side of Cheapside, (between Ironmonger Lane and Old Jewry,) stood the Hospital
of St. Thomas of Acon, founded by Thomas Fitz-Theobald de Helles, and his wife Agnes, sister
to the turbulent Thomas Becket, who was born in the house of his father, Gilbert, situated
on this spot. The mother of our meek saint was a fair Saracen, whom his father had married
in the Holy Land. On the site of this house rose the hospital, built within twenty years after
the murder of Thomas; yet such was the repute of his sanctity, that it was dedicated to him,
in conjunction with the blessed Virgin, without waiting for his canonization. The hospital
consisted of a master and several brethren, professing the rule of St. Austin. The church,
cloisters, &c. were granted by Henry VIII. to the Mercers' Company, who had the gift of the
mastership.[1]

    [1] Tanner.

"In the old church were several monuments; among others, one to James Butler, Earl of Ormond,
and Joan his wife, living in the beginning of the reign of Henry VI. The whole pile was destroyed
in the great fire, but was very handsomely rebuilt by the Mercers' Company, who have their
Hall here.

"In this chapel the celebrated, but unsteady, archbishop of Spalato, preached his first sermon
in 1617, in Italian, before the Archbishop of Canterbury, and a splendid audience; and continued
his discourses in the same place several times, after he had embraced our religion; but having
the folly to return to his ancient faith, and trust himself among his old friends at Rome,
he was shut up in the Castle of St. Angelo, where he died in 1625."

"The Mercers' Company is the first of the twelve. The name by no means implied, originally,
a dealer in silks: for mercery included all sorts of small wares, toys, and haberdashery; but,
as several of this opulent company were merchants, and imported great quantities of rich silks
from Italy, the name became applied to the Company, and all dealers in silk. Not fewer than
sixty-two mayors were of this Company, between the years 1214 and 1762; among which were Sir
John Coventry, Sir Richard Whittington, and Sir Richard and Sir John Gresham."

The front in Cheapside, which alone can be seen, is narrow, but floridly adorned with carvings
and architectural ornaments. The door is enriched with the figures of two cupids, mantling
the arms, festoons, &c. and above the balcony, it is adorned with two pilasters, entablature,
and pediment of the Ionic order; the intercolumns are the figures of Faith and Hope, and that
of Charity, in a niche under the cornice of the pediment, with other enrichments. The interior
is very handsome. The hall and great parlour are wainscoted with oak, and adorned with Ionic
pilasters. The ceiling is of fret-work, and the stately piazzas are constituted by large columns,
and their entablature of the Doric order.

The arms of the Mercers, as they are sculptured over the gateway, present for their distinguishing
feature a demi-virgin with dishevelled hair: it was in allusion to this circumstance, that
in the days of pageantry, at the election of Lord Mayor, a richly ornamented chariot was produced,
in which was seated a young and beautiful virgin, most sumptuously arrayed, her hair flowing
in ringlets over her neck and shoulders, and a crown upon her head. When the day's diversions
were over, she was liberally rewarded and dismissed, claiming as her own the rich attire she
had worn.

From this place likewise was formerly a solemn procession by the Lord Mayor, who, in the afternoon
of the day he was sworn at the Exchequer, met the Aldermen; whence they repaired together to
St. Paul's, and there prayed for the soul of their benefactor, William, Bishop of London, in
the time of William the Conqueror, at his tomb. They then went to the churchyard to a place
where lay the parents of Thomas â Becket, and prayed for all souls departed. They then returned
to the chapel, and both Mayor and Aldermen offered each a penny.

Attached to the original foundation or hospital was a grammar-school, which has been subsequently
continued at the expense of the Mercers' Company, though not on the same spot. It was for some
time kept in the Old Jewry, whence it has been removed to College Hill, Upper Thames Street.
Among the masters may be mentioned William Baxter, nephew to the non-conformist, Richard Baxter,
and author of two Dictionaries of British and Roman Antiquities.

Nearly opposite the entrance to Mercers' Hall, is a handsome stone-fronted house, built by
Sir Christopher Wren. The houses adjoining the Hall were of similar ornamental character; although
the unenclosed shop-fronts present a strange contrast with some of the improvements and superfluities
of modern times. The Hall front has lately been renovated, and presents a rich display of architectural
ornament.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LONE GRAVES.

(For the Mirror.)

  Why should their sleep thus silent be, from streams and flow'rs away,
  While wanders thro' the sunny air the cuckoo's mellow lay;
  Those forms, whose eyes reflected heaven in their mild depth of blue,
  Whose hair was like the wave that shines o'er sands of golden hue?

  Are these the altars of their rest, the pure and sacred shrines;
  Where Memory, rapt o'er visions fled, her holy spell combines?
  The sire, the child, oh, waft them back to their delightful dell,
  When, like a voice from heavenly lands, awakes the curfew bell.

  And have they no remembrance here, the cheeks that softly glow'd,
  The amber hair, that, on the breeze, in gleaming tresses flow'd,
  The hymn which hail'd the Sabbath morn,--the fix'd and fervid eye;
  Must these sweet treasures of the heart in shade and silence lie?

  Oh, no! thou place of sanctities! a ray has from thee gone,
  Dearer than noontide's gorgeous light, or Sabbath's music tone;
  A spirit! whose bright ark is far beyond the clouds and waves,
  Albeit there is a sunless gloom on these, their lonely graves!

  REGINALD AUGUSTINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

BAGLEY WOOD.

(For the Mirror.)

Bagley is situated about two miles and a half from Oxford, on the Abingdon-road, and affords
an agreeable excursion to the Oxonians, who, leaving the city of learning, pass over the old
bridge, where the observatory of the celebrated Friar Bacon was formerly standing. The wood
is large, extending itself to the summit of a hill, which commands a charming panoramic view
of Oxford, and of the adjacent country. The scene is richly diversified with hill and dale,
while the spires, turrets, and towers of the university, rise high above the clustering trees,
filling the beholder with the utmost awe and veneration. During the summer, this rustic spot
presents many cool retreats, and love-embowering shades; and here many an amour is carried
on, free from suspicion's eye, beneath the wide umbrageous canopy of nature.

Gipsies, or fortune-tellers, are constantly to be found in Bagley Wood; and many a gay Oxonian
may be seen in the company of some wandering Egyptian beauty. So partial, indeed, are several
of the young men of the university to the tawny tribe, that they are frequently observed in
their academicals, lounging round the picturesque tents, having their fortunes told; though,
it must be remarked, their countenances usually evince a waggish incredulity on those occasions,
and they appear much more amused with the novel scene around them than gratified with the favourable
predictions of the wily Egyptians.

G.W.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

EATING "MUTTON COLD."

(For the Mirror.)

A correspondent in a late number asks for a solution of the expression, "eating mutton cold."
If the following one is worth printing, it is much at your service and that of the readers
of the MIRROR.

I consider then that it has simply the same meaning as that of "coming a day after the fair."
To come at the end of a feast when the various viands (always including mutton as being easy
of digestion for dyspeptic people) were still warm, though cut pretty near to the bone, would,
by most persons, particularly aldermanic "bodies," be considered sufficiently vexatious; how
doubly annoying then must it be to come so late as to find the meats more than half cold, and,
perhaps, but little of them left even in that anti-epicurean state! Whoever has been unfortunate
enough to miss a fine fat haunch either of venison or mutton, which, smoking on the board,
even Dr. Kitchiner would have pronounced fit for an emperor, cannot but enter deeply and feelingly
into the disappointment of that guest who, arriving, through some misdate of the invitation
card, on the day subsequent to the feast, finds but, horribile dictu, cold lean ham, cold pea-soup,
cold potatoes, and finally, cold mutton. Goldsmith's idea certainly was that Burke was never
able to say, in the words of the Roman adage, in tempore veni quod rerum omnium est primum;
but rather in plain English, "confound my ill luck, I never yet was invited to a feast but
I either missed it in toto, or came so late as to be obliged to eat my mutton cold, a thing,
which of all others, I most abhor." HEN. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

POOL'S HOLE, DERBYSHIRE.

(For the Mirror.)

This cave is said to have taken its title from a notorious robber of that name, who being declared
an outlaw, found in this hole a refuge from justice, where he carried on his nocturnal depredations
with impunity. Others insist that this dismal hole was the habitation of a hermit or anchorite,
of the name of Pool. Of the two traditions, I prefer the former. It is situated at the bottom
of Coitmos, a lofty mountain near Buxton. The entrance is by a small arch, so low that you
are forced to creep on hands and knees to gain admission; but it gradually opens into a vault
above a quarter of a mile in length, and as some assert, a quarter of a mile high. It is certainly
very lofty, and resembles the roof of a Gothic edifice. In a cavern to the right called Pool's
Chamber, there is a fine echo, and the dashing of a current of water, which flows along the
middle of the great vault, very much heightens the wonder.

On the floor are great ridges of stone--water is perpetually distilling from the roof and sides
of this vault, and the drops before they fall produce a very pleasing effect, by reflecting
numberless rays from the candles carried by the guides. They also form their quality from crystallizations
of various flakes like figures of fret work, and in some places, having long accumulated upon
one another, into large masses, bearing a rude resemblance to various animals.

In the same cavity is a column as clear as alabaster, called Mary Queen of Scots' column, because
it is said she reached so far; beyond which is a steep ascent for nearly a quarter of a mile,
which terminates in a hollow in the roof, called the Needle's-eye, in which, when the guide
places his candle, it looks like a star in the firmament. You only wonder when you get out
how you attained such an achievement. W.H.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

CANTERBURY CATHEDRAL.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Happening to look at No. 229, of your valuable Miscellany, in which you have given rather a
lengthy account of Canterbury Cathedral, I was surprised to find no notice taken of the beautiful
STONE SCREEN in the interior of the cathedral, which is considered by many, one of the finest
specimens of florid Gothic in the kingdom. The following is a brief description of this ancient
specimen of architecture:

This fine piece of Gothic carved work was built by Prior Hen. de Estria, in 1304. It is rich
in flutings, pyramids, and canopied niches, in which stand six statues crowned, five of which
hold globes in their hands, and the sixth a church. Various have been the conjectures as to
the individuals intended by these statues. That holding the church is supposed to represent
King Ethelbert, being a very ancient man with a long beard. The next figure appears more feminine,
and may probably intend his queen, Bertha.

Before the havoc made in Charles's reign, there were thirteen figures representing Christ and
his Apostles in the niches which are round the arch-doorway, and also twelve mitred Saints
aloft along the stone work, where is now placed an organ.

At the National Repository, Charing Cross, there is exhibited a very correct model of this
screen, in which the likenesses of the ancient kings are admirably imitated. P.T.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT STONE.

(For the Mirror.)

There formerly stood about three miles from Carmarthen, at a place called New Church, a stone
about eight feet long and two broad. The only distinguishable words upon it were "Severus filius
Severi." The remainder of the inscription, by dilapidation and time, was defaced. It is supposed
that there had been a battle fought here, and that Severus fell. About a quarter of a mile
from this was another with the name of some other individual. The above stone was removed by
the owner of the land on which it stood, and is now used instead of a gate-post by him. I should
imagine it was the son of Severus the Roman, who founded the great wall and ditch called after
him, Severus' Wall and Ditch, and as there was a Roman road from St. David's, in Wales, to
Southampton, it is not improbable that the Romans should come from thence to Carmarthen. W.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COSMOPOLITE.

       *       *       *       *       *

DIET OF VARIOUS NATIONS.

(For the Mirror.)

To the artist, the amateur, the traveller, and man of taste in general, the following gleanings
respecting the diet of various nations, are, in the spirit of English hospitality, cordially
inscribed. The breakfast of the Icelanders consists of skyr, a kind of sour, coagulated milk,
sometimes mixed with fresh milk or cream, and flavoured with the juice of certain berries;
their usual dinner is dried fish, skyr, and rancid butter; and skyr, cheese, or porridge, made
of Iceland moss, forms their supper; bread is rarely tasted by many of the Icelanders, but
appears as a dainty at their rural feasts with mutton, and milk-porridge. They commonly drink
a kind of whey mixed with water. As the cattle of this people are frequently, during winter,
reduced to the miserable necessity of subsisting on dried fish, we can scarcely conceive their
fresh meat to be so great a luxury as it is there esteemed. The poor of Sweden live on hard
bread, salted or dried fish, water-gruel, and beer. The Norwegian nobility and merchants fare
sumptuously, but the lower classes chiefly subsist on the following articles:--oatmeal-bread,
made in thin cakes (strongly resembling the havver-bread of Scotland) and baked only twice
a-year. The oatmeal for this bread is, in times of scarcity, which in Norway frequently occur,
mixed with the bark of elm or fir tree, ground, after boiling and drying, into a sort of flour;
sometimes in the vicinity of fisheries, the roes of cod kneaded with the meal of oats or barley,
are made into a kind of hasty-pudding, and soup, which is enriched with a pickled herring or
mackerel. The flesh of the shark, and thin slices of meat salted and dried in the wind, are
much esteemed. Fresh fish are plentiful on the coasts, but for lack of conveyances, unknown
in the interior; the deficiency however, is there amply supplied by an abundance of game. The
flesh of cattle pickled, smoked, or dry-salted, is laid by for winter store; and after making
cheese, the sour whey is converted into a liquor called syre, which, mixed with water, constitutes
the ordinary beverage of the Norwegians; but for festive occasions they brew strong beer, and
with it intoxicate themselves, as also with brandy, when procurable. The maritime Laplanders
feed on fish of every description, even to that of sea-dog, fish-livers, and train-oil, and
of these obtaining but a scanty provision; they are even aspiring to the rank of the interior
inhabitants, whose nutriment is of a more delicate description, being the flesh of all kinds
of wild animals, herbaceous and carnivorous, and birds of prey; but bear's flesh is their greatest
dainty. Rein-deer flesh is commonly boiled in a large iron kettle, and when done, torn to pieces
by the fingers of the major domo, and by him portioned out to his family and friends; the broth
remaining in the kettle is boiled into soup with rye or oat-meal, and sometimes seasoned with
salt. Rein-deer blood is also a viand with these people, and being boiled, either by itself
or mixed with wild berries, in the stomach of the animal from whence it was taken, forms a
kind of black-pudding. The beverage of the Laplanders is milk and water, broths, and fish-soups;
brandy, of which they are extremely fond, is a great rarity, and a glass of it will warm their
hearts towards the weary sojourner, who, but for the precious gift, might ask hospitality at
their huts in vain. The diet of the Samoides, resembles that of the Laplanders, save that they
devour raw the flesh of fish and reindeer. For this people, all animals taken in the chase,
and even those found dead, afford food, with the exception of dogs, cats, ermines, and squirrels.
They have no regular time for meals, but the members of a family help themselves when they
please from the boiler which always hangs over the fire. It is scarcely possible to name the
variety of diet to be found among the Russian tribes; but even in cities, and at the tables
of the opulent and civilized, late accounts mention the appearance of several strange and disgusting
dishes, compounded of pastry, grain, pulse, vinegar, honey, fish, flesh, fruits, &c., not at
all creditable to Russian gastronomic science. The diet of the Polish peasantry is meagre in
the extreme; they seldom taste animal food, and both sexes swallow a prodigious quantity of
schnaps, an ardent spirit resembling whiskey. The Dutch of all ranks are fond of butter, and
seldom is a journey taken without a butter-box in the pocket. The boors feed on roots, pulse,
herbs, sour milk, and water-souchie, a kind of fish-broth. In England, the edible produce of
the world appears at the tables of the nobility, gentry, and opulent commercial classes; and
upon comparison with that of other nations, it will be seen that the diet of English artisans,
peasantry, and even paupers, is far superior in variety and nourishment; bread, (white and
brown) vegetables, meat, broth, soup, fish, fruit, roots, herbs, cheese, milk, butter, and,
not rarely, sugar and tea, with fermented liquors and ardent spirits, are all, or most of them,
procured as articles of daily subsistence by the English inferior classes. In Scotland, the
higher ranks live abstemiously, save on festive occasions; but animal food and wheaten bread
is seldom tasted by the lower orders, who chiefly subsist on rye, barley, and oatmeal, prepared
in bread, thin cakes, and porridge; this last termed stirabout, is simply oatmeal mixed with
water and boiled (being stirred about with a wooden skether or spoon when on the fire) to the
consistency of flour-paste, not very stiff; this, eaten with milk, forms the chief diet of
the Scottish artisans and peasantry, and, indeed, many of superior stations prefer it for breakfast
to bread of the finest flour which can be procured. Both high and low are partial to the following
national dishes. The haggis, a kind of pudding, made of the offals or interior of a sheep,
and boiled in the integument of its stomach; this dish, both in odour and flavour, is usually
excessively offensive to the stranger; the singed sheep's head, water-souchie, Scotch soup,
(an olla podrida of meats and vegetables,) chicken-broth and sowens. Laver, a sauce made from
a peculiar kind of sea-weed, and caviar, introduced from Russia, appear at the tables of the
opulent, and by many are much esteemed. The diet of the higher ranks of Irish varies but little
from that of the same classes in England and Scotland. Amongst national dishes appear the staggering
bob, a calf only two days old, delicately dressed; hodge-podge, a soup answering to that of
Scotland; colcannon, a mixture of potatoes and greens, seasoned with onions, salt, and pepper,
finely braided together after boiling; and a sea-weed sauce, either laver or some other, the
name of which we do not happen to remember. Potatoes, fish, (fresh and salted) eggs, milk,
and butter-milk, form the principal support of the inferior class, of Irish; and whiskey the
national ardent spirit of Ireland and Scotland, is but too often, as is gin in England, the
sole support of a host of besotted beings, who drop into untimely graves, from the habit of
intoxication.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

NUPTIALS OF ALEXANDER THE GREAT.

At Susa, Alexander collected all the nobles of the empire, and celebrated the most magnificent
nuptials recorded in history. He married Barcinè, or Stateira, the daughter of the late king,
and thus, in the eyes of his Persian subjects, confirmed his title to the throne. His father,
Philip, was a polygamist in practice, although it would be very difficult to prove that the
Macedonians in general were allowed a plurality of wives; but Alexander was now the King of
Kings, and is more likely to have been guided by Persian than Greek opinions upon the subject.
Eighty of his principal officers followed his example, and were united to the daughters of
the chief nobility of Persia.

