"Drink to me only with thine eyes," hummed the King of Borva to himself as he sent the two
little horses along the coast-road on this warm summer day. He had heard the song for the first
time on the previous evening. He had no voice to speak of; he had missed the air, and these
were all the words he remembered; but it was a notable compliment all the same to the young
man who had brought these pleasant tunes to the island. And so they drove on through the keen
salt air, with the sea shining beside them and the sky shining over them; and in the afternoon
they arrived at the small, remote and solitary inn of Barvas, placed near the confluence of
several rivers that flow through Loch Barvas (or Barabhas) to the sea. Here they proposed to
stop the night, so that Lavender, when his room had been assigned to him, begged to be left
alone for an hour or two, that he might throw a little color into his sketch of Callernish.
What was there to see at Barvas? Why, nothing but the channels of the brown streams, some pasture-land
and a few huts, then the unfrequented lake, and beyond that some ridges of white sand standing
over the shingly beach of the sea. He would join them at dinner. Mackenzie protested in a mild
way: he really wanted to see how the island was to be illustrated by the stranger. There was
a greater protest, mingled with compassion and regret, in Sheila's eyes; but the young man
was firm. So they let him have his way, and gave him full possession of the common sitting-room,
while they set off to visit the school and the Free-Church manse and what not in the neighborhood.

Mackenzie had ordered dinner at eight, to show that he was familiar with the ways of civilized
life; and when they returned at that hour Lavender had two sketches finished.

"Yes, they are very good," said Ingram, who was seldom enthusiastic about his friend's work.

But old Mackenzie was so vastly pleased with the picture, which represented his native place
in the brightest of sunshine and colors, that he forgot to assume a critical air. He said nothing
against the rainy and desolate version of the scene that had been given to Sheila: it was good
enough to please the child. But here was something brilliant, effective, cheerful; and he alarmed
Lavender not a little by proposing to get one of the natives to carry this treasure, then and
there, back to Borvabost. Both sketches were ultimately returned to his book, and then Sheila
helped him to remove his artistic apparatus from the table on which their plain and homely
meal was to be placed. As she was about to follow her father and Ingram, who had left the room,
she paused for a moment and said to Lavender, with a look of frank gratitude in her eyes, "It
is very good of you to have pleased my papa so much. I know when he is pleased, though he does
not speak of it; and it is not often he will be so much pleased."

"And you, Sheila?" said the young man, unconscious of the familiarity he was using, and only
remembering that she had scarcely thanked him for the other sketch.

"Well, there is nothing that will please me so much as to see him pleased," she said with a smile.

He was about to open the door for her, but he kept his hand on the handle, and said, earnestly
enough, "But that is such a small matter--an hour's work. If you only knew how gladly I would
live all my life here if only I could do you some greater service--"

She looked a little surprised, and then for one brief second reflected. English was not wholly
familiar to her: perhaps she had failed to catch what he really meant. But at all events she
said gravely and simply, "You would soon tire of living here: it is not always a holiday."
And then, without lifting her eyes to his face, she turned to the door, and he opened it for
her and she was gone.

It was about ten o'clock when they went outside for their evening stroll, and all the world
had grown enchanted since they had seen it in the colors of the sunset. There was no night,
but a strange clearness over the sky and the earth, and down in the south the moon was rising
over the Barvas hills. In the dark green meadows the cattle were still grazing. Voices of children
could be heard in the far distance, with the rumble of a cart coming through the silence, and
the murmur of the streams flowing down to the loch. The loch itself lay like a line of dusky
yellow in a darkened hollow near the sea, having caught on its surface the pale glow of the
northern heavens, where the sun had gone down hours before. The air was warm and yet fresh
with the odors of the Atlantic, and there was a scent of Dutch clover coming across from the
sandy pastures nearer the coast. The huts of the small hamlet could but faintly be made out
beyond the dark and low-lying pastures, but a long, pale line of blue smoke lay in the motionless
air, and the voices of the children told of open doors. Night after night this same picture,
with slight variations of position, had been placed before the stranger who had come to view
these solitudes, and night after night it seemed to him to grow more beautiful. He could put
down on paper the outlines of an every-day landscape, and give them a dash of brilliant color
to look well on a wall; but how to carry away, except in the memory, any impression of the
strange lambent darkness, the tender hues, the loneliness and the pathos of those northern
twilights?

They walked down by the side of one of the streams toward the sea. But Sheila was not his companion
on this occasion. Her father had laid hold of him, and was expounding to him the rights of
capitalists and various other matters. But by and by Lavender drew his companion on to talk
of Sheila's mother; and here, at least, Mackenzie was neither tedious nor ridiculous nor unnecessarily
garrulous. It was with a strange interest the young man heard the elderly man talk of his courtship,
his marriage, the character of his wife, and her goodness and beauty. Was it not like looking
at a former Sheila? and would not this Sheila now walking before him go through the same tender
experiences, and be admired and loved and petted by everybody as this other girl had been,
who brought with her the charm of winning ways and a gentle nature into these rude wilds? It
was the first time he had heard Mackenzie speak of his wife, and it turned out to be the last;
but from that moment the older man had something of dignity in the eyes of this younger man,
who had merely judged of him by his little foibles and eccentricities, and would have been
ready to dismiss him contemptuously as a buffoon. There was something, then, behind that powerful
face, with its deep-cut lines, its heavy eyebrows and piercing and sometimes sad eyes, besides
a mere liking for tricks of childish diplomacy. Lavender began to have some respect for Sheila's
father, and made a resolution to guard against the impertinence of humoring him too ostentatiously.

Was it not hard, though, that Ingram, who was so cold and unimpressionable, who smiled at the
notion of marrying, and who was probably enjoying his pipe quite as much as Sheila's familiar
talk, should have the girl all to himself on this witching night? They reached the shores of
the Atlantic. There was not a breath of wind coming in from the sea, but the air seemed even
sweeter and cooler as they sat down on the great bank of shingle. Here and there birds were
calling, and Sheila could distinguish each one of them. As the moon rose a faint golden light
began to tremble here and there on the waves, as if some subterranean caverns were lit up and
sending to the surface faint and fitful rays of their splendor. Farther along the coast the
tall banks of white sand grew white in the twilight, and the outlines of the dark pasture-land
behind grew more distinct.

But when they rose to go back to Barvas the moonlight had grown full and clear, and the long
and narrow loch had a pathway of gold across, stretching from the reeds and sedges of the one
side to the reeds and sedges of the other. And now Ingram had gone on to join Mackenzie, and
Sheila walked behind with Lavender, and her face was pale and beautiful in the moonlight.

"I shall be very sorry when I have to leave Lewis," he said as they walked along the path leading
through the sand and the clover; and there could be no doubt that he felt the regret expressed
in the words.

"But it is no use to speak of leaving us yet," said Sheila cheerfully: "it is a long time before
you will go away from the Lewis."

"And I fancy I shall always think of the island just as it is now--with the moonlight over
there, and a loch near, and you walking through the stillness. We have had so many evening
walks like this."

"You will make us very vain of our island," said the girl with a smile, "if you will speak
like that always to us. Is there no moonlight in England? I have pictures of English scenery
that will be far more beautiful than any we have here; and if there is the moon here, it will
be there too. Think of the pictures of the river Thames that my papa showed you last night--"

"Oh, but there is nothing like this in the South," said the young man impetuously. "I do not
believe there is in the world anything so beautiful as this. Sheila, what would you say if
I resolved to come and live here always?"

"I should like that very much--more than you would like it, perhaps," she said with a bright laugh.

"That would please you better than for you to go always and live in England, would it not?"

"But that is impossible," she said. "My papa would never think of living in England."

For some time after he was silent. The two figures in front of them walked steadily on, an
occasional roar of laughter from the deep chest of Mackenzie startling the night air, and telling
of Ingram's being in a communicative mood. At last Lavender said, "It seems to me so great
a pity that you should live in this remote place, and have so little amusement, and see so
few people of tastes and education like your own. Your papa is so much occupied--he is so much
older than you, too--that you must be left to yourself so much; whereas if you had a companion
of your own age, who could have the right to talk frankly to you, and go about with you, and
take care of you--"

By this time they had reached the little wooden bridge crossing the stream, and Mackenzie and
Ingram had got to the inn, where they stood in front of the door in the moonlight. Before ascending
the steps of the bridge, Lavender, without pausing in his speech, took Sheila's hand and said
suddenly, "Now don't let me alarm you, Sheila, but suppose at some distant day--as far away
as you please--I came and asked you to let me be your companion then and always, wouldn't you try?"

She looked up with a startled glance of fear in her eyes, and withdrew her hand from him.

"No, don't be frightened," he said quite gently. "I don't ask you for any promise. Sheila,
you must know I love you--you must have seen it. Will you not let me come to you at some future
time--a long way off--that you may tell me then? Won't you try to do that?"

There was more in the tone of his voice than in his words. The girl stood irresolute for a
second or two, regarding him with a strange, wistful, earnest look; and then a great gentleness
came into her eyes, and she put out her hand to him and said in a low voice, "Perhaps."

