The nobleness of the speaker, the futility of the speech, were about equally balanced! Candour
was impossible, if only for kindness' sake. And the story, so told, was not only unconvincing,
it was hardly intelligible even, to Letty. For the two personalities moved in different worlds,
and what had seemed to the woman who was all delicate impulse and romance the natural and right
course, merely excited in Letty, and not without reason, fresh suspicion and offence. If words
had been all, Marcella had gained nothing.

But a strange tumult was rising in Letty's breast. There was something in this mingling of
self-abasement with an extraordinary moral richness and dignity, in these eyes, these hands
that would have so gladly caught and clasped her own, which began almost to intimidate her.
She broke out again, so as to hold her own bewilderment at bay:

"What right had you to send him away--to plan anything for my husband without my consent? Oh,
of course you put it very finely; I daresay you know about all sorts of things I don't know
about; I'm not clever, I don't talk politics. But I don't quite see the good of it, if it's
only to take husbands away from their wives. All the same, I'm not a hypocrite, and I don't
mean to pretend I'm a meek saint. Far from it. I've no doubt that George thinks he's been perfectly
justified from the beginning, and that I have brought everything upon myself. Well! I don't
care to argue about it. Don't imagine, please, that I have been playing the deserted wife all
the time. If people injure me, it's not my way to hold my tongue, and I imagine that, after
all, I do understand my own husband, in spite of Lord Maxwell's kind remarks!" She pointed
scornfully to Maxwell's letter on the table. "But as soon as I saw that nothing I said mattered
to George, and that his whole mind was taken up with your society, why, of course, I took my
own measures! There are other men in the world--and one of them happens to amuse me particularly
at this moment. It's your doing and George's, you see, if he doesn't like it!"

Marcella recoiled in sudden horror, staring at her companion with wide, startled eyes. Letty
braved her defiantly, her dry lips drawn into a miserable smile. She stood, looking very small
and elegant, beside her writing-table, her hand, blazing with rings, resting lightly upon it,
the little, hot withered face alone betraying the nerve tension behind.

The situation lasted a few seconds, then with a quick step Marcella hurried to a chair on the
further side of the room, sank into it, and covered her face with her hands.

Letty's heart seemed to dip, as it were, into an abyss. But there was a frenzied triumph in
the spectacle of Marcella's grief and tears.

Marcella Maxwell--thus silenced, thus subdued! The famous name, with all that it had stood
for in Letty's mind, of things to be envied and desired, echoed in her ear, delighted her revenge.
She struggled to maintain her attitude.

"I don't know why what I said should make you so unhappy," she said coldly, after a pause.

Marcella did not reply. Presently Letty saw that she was resting her cheek on her hand and
gazing before her into vacancy. At last she turned round, and Letty could satisfy herself that
in truth her eyes were wet.

"Is there no one," asked the full, tremulous voice, "whom you care for, whom you would send
for now to advise and help you?"

"Thank you!" said Letty, calmly, leaning against the little writing-table, and beating the
ground slightly with her foot. "I don't want them. And I don't know why you should trouble
yourself about it."

But for the first time, and against its owner's will, the hard tone wavered.

Marcella rose impetuously again, and came towards her.

"When one thinks of all the long years of married life," she said, still trembling, "of the
children that may come--"

Letty lifted her eyebrows.

"If one happened to wish for them. But I don't happen to wish for them, never did. I daresay
it sounds horrid. Anyway, one needn't take that into consideration."

"And your husband? Your husband, who must be miserable, whose great gifts will be all spoiled
unless you will somehow give up your anger and make peace. And instead of that, you are only
thinking of revenging yourself, of making more ruin and pain. It breaks one's heart! And it
would need such a little effort on your part, only a few words written or spoken, to bring
him back, to end all this unhappiness!"

"Oh! George can take care of himself," said Letty, provokingly; "so can I. Besides, you have
sent him away."

Marcella looked at her in despair. Then silently she turned away, and Letty saw that she was
searching for some gloves and a handkerchief she had been carrying in her hand when she came in.

Letty watched her take them up, then said suddenly, "Are you going away?"

"It is best, I think. I can do nothing."

"I wish I knew why you came to see me at all! They say, of course, you are very much in love
with Lord Maxwell. Perhaps--that made you sorry for me?"

Marcella's pride leapt at the mention by those lips of her own married life. Then she drove
her pride down.

"You have put it better than I have been able to do, all the time." Her mouth parted in a slight,
sad smile--"Good-night."

Letty took no notice. She sat down on the arm of a chair near her. Her eyes suddenly blazed,
her face grew dead-white.

"Well, if you want to know--" she said--"no, don't go--I don't mean to let you go just yet--I
am about the most miserable wretch going! There, you may take it or leave it; it's true. I
don't suppose I cared much about George when I married him; plenty of girls don't. But as soon
as he began to care about you,--just contrariness, I suppose,--I began to feel that I could
kill anybody that took him from me, and kill myself afterwards! Oh, good gracious! there was
plenty of reason for his getting tired of me. I'm not the sort of person to let anyone get
the whip-hand of me, and I would spend his money as I liked, and I would ask the persons I
chose to the house; and, above all, I wasn't going to be pestered with looking after and giving
up to his dreadful mother, who made my life a burden to me. Oh! why do you look so white? Well,
I daresay it does sound atrocious. I don't care. Perhaps you'll be still more horrified when
you know that they came round this afternoon, when I was out and George was gone, to tell me
that Lady Tressady was frightfully ill--dying, I think my maid said. And I haven't given it
another thought since--not one--till now"--she struck one hand against the other--"because
directly afterwards the butler told me of your visit this afternoon, and that you were coming
again--and I wasn't going to think of anything else in the world but you, and George. No, don't
look like that, don't come near me--I'm not mad. I assure you I'm not mad! But that's all by
the way. What was I saying? Oh! that George had cause enough to stop caring about me. Of course
he had; but if he's lost to me--I shall give him a good deal more cause before we've done.
That other man--you know him--Cathedine--gave me a kiss this afternoon, when we were in a wood
together"--the same involuntary shudder overtook her, while she still held her companion at
arm's length. "Oh, he is a brute--a brute! But what do I care what happens to me? It's so strange
I don't--rather creditable, I think--for after all I like parties, and being asked about. But
now George hates me--and let you send him away from me--why, of course, it's all simple enough!
I--Don't--don't come. I shall never, never forgive--it's just being tired--"

But Marcella sprang forward. Mercifully, there is a limit to nerve endurance, and Letty in
her raving had overpassed it. She sank gasping on a sofa, still putting out her hand as though
to protect herself. But Marcella knelt beside her, the tears running down her cheeks. She put
her arms--arms formed for tenderness, for motherliness--round the girl's slight frame. "Don't--don't
repulse me," she said, with trembling lips, and suddenly Letty yielded. She found herself sobbing
in Lady Maxwell's embrace, while all the healing, all the remorse, all the comfort that self-abandonment
and pity can pour out on such a plight as hers, descended upon her from Marcella's clinging
touch, her hurried, fragmentary words. Assurances that all could be made right entreaties for
gentleness and patience--revelations of her own inmost heart as a wife, far too sacred for
the ears of Letty Tressady--little phrases and snatches of autobiography steeped in an exquisite
experience: the nature Letty had rained her blows upon, kept nothing back, gave her all its
best. How irrelevant much of it was!--chequered throughout by those oblivions, and optimisms,
and foolish hopes by which such a nature as Marcella's protects itself from the hard facts
of the world. By the time she had ranged through every note of entreaty and consolation, Marcella
had almost persuaded herself and Letty that George Tressady had never said a word to her beyond
the commonplaces of an ordinary friendship; she had passionately determined that this blurred
and spoiled marriage could and should be mended, and that it lay with her to do it; and in
the spirit of her audacious youth she had taken upon herself the burden of Letty's character
and fate, vowing herself to a moral mission, to a long patience. The quality of her own nature,
perhaps, made her bear Letty's violences and frenzies more patiently than would have been possible
to a woman of another type; generous remorse and regret, combined with her ignorance of Letty's
history and the details of Letty's life, led her even to look upon these violences as the effects
of love perverted, the anguish of a jealous heart. Imagination, keen and loving, drew the situation
for her in rapid strokes, draped Letty in the subtleties and powers of her own heart, and made
forbearance easy.

As for Letty, her whole being surrendered itself to a mere ebb and flow of sensations. That
she had been able thus to break down the barriers of Marcella's stateliness filled her all
through, in her passion as in her yielding, with a kind of exultation. A vision of a tall figure
in a white and silver dress, sitting stiff and unapproachable beside her in the Castle Luton
drawing-room, fled through her mind now and then, only to make the wonder of this pleading
voice, these confidences, this pity, the more wonderful. But there was more than this, and
better than this. Strange up-wellings of feelings long trampled on and suppressed--momentary
awakenings of conscience, of repentance, of regret--sharp realisations of an envy that was
no longer ignoble but moral, softer thoughts of George, the suffocating, unwilling recognition
of what love meant in another woman's life--these messengers and forerunners of diviner things
passed and repassed through the spaces of Letty's soul as she lay white and passive under Marcella's
yearning look. There was a marvellous relief besides, much of it a physical relief, in this
mere silence, this mere ceasing from angry railing and offence.

Marcella was still sitting beside her, holding her hands, and talking in the same low voice,
when suddenly the loud sound of a bell clanged through the house. Letty sprang up, white and
startled.

"What can it be? It's past ten o'clock. It can't be a telegram."

Then a guilty remembrance struck her. She hurried to the door as Kenrick entered.

"Lady Tressady's maid would like to see you, my lady. They want Sir George's address. The doctors
think she will hardly live over to-morrow."

And behind Kenrick, Justine, the French maid, pushed her way in, weeping and exclaiming. Lady
Tressady, it seemed, had been in frightful pain all the afternoon. She was now easier for the
moment, though dangerously exhausted. But if the heart attacks returned during the next twenty-four
hours, nothing could save her. The probability was that they would return, and she was asking
piteously for her son, who had seen her, Justine believed, the day before these seizures began,
just before his departure for Paris, and had written. "Et la pauvre ame!" cried the Frenchwoman
at last, not caring what she said to this amazing daughter-in-law, "elle est la toujours, quand
les douleurs s'apaisent un peu, ecoutant, esperant--et personne ne vient--personne! Voulez-vous
bien, madame, me dire ou on peut trouver Sir George?"

"Poste Restante, Trouville," said Letty, sullenly. "It is the only address that I know of."

But she stood there irresolute and frowning, while the French girl, hardly able to contain
herself, stared at the disfigured face, demanding by her quick-breathing silence, by her whole
attitude, something else, something more than Sir George's address.

Meanwhile Marcella waited in the background, obliged to hear what passed, and struck with amazement.
It is perhaps truer of the moral world than the social that one half of it never conceives
how the other half lives. George Tressady's mother--alone--dying--in her son's absence--and
Letty Tressady knew nothing of her illness till it had become a question of life and death,
and had then actually refused to go--forgotten the summons even!

When Letty, feverish and bewildered, turned back to the companion whose heart had been poured
out before her during this past hour of high emotion, she saw a new expression in Lady Maxwell's
eyes from which she shrank.

"Ought I to go?" she said fretfully, almost like a peevish child, putting her hand to her brow.

"My carriage is downstairs," said Marcella, quickly. "I can take you there at once. Is there
a nurse?" she asked, turning to the maid.

Oh, yes; there was an excellent nurse, just installed, or Justine could not have left her mistress;
and the doctor close by could be got at a moment's notice. But the poor lady wanted her son,
or at least some one of the family,--Justine bit her lip, and threw a nervous side glance at
Letty,--and it went to the heart to see her. The girl found relief in describing her mistress's
state to this grave and friendly lady, and showed more feeling and sincerity in speaking of
it than might have been expected from her affected dress and manner.

Meanwhile Letty seemed to be wandering aimlessly about the room. Marcella went up to her.

"Your hat is here, on this chair. I have a shawl in the carriage. Won't you come at once, and
leave word to your maid to bring after you what you want? Then I can go on, if you wish it,
and send your telegram to Sir George."

"But you wanted him to do something?" said Letty, looking at her uncertainly.

"Mothers come first, I think!" said Marcella, with a smile of wonder. "It is best to write
it before we go. Will you tell me what to say?"

She went to the writing-table, and had to write the telegram with small help from Letty, who
in her dazed, miserable soul was still fighting some demonic resistance or other to the step
asked of her. Instinctively and gradually, however, Marcella took command of her. A few quiet
words to Justine sent her to make arrangements with Grier. Then Letty found a cloak that had
been sent for being drawn round her shoulders, and was coaxed to put on her hat. In another
minute she was in the Maxwells' brougham, with her hand clasped in Marcella's.

"They will want me to sit up," she said, dashing an irrelevant tear from her eyes, as they
drove away. "I am so tired--and I hate illness!"

"Very likely they won't let you see her to-night. But you will be there if the illness comes
on again. You would feel it terribly if--if she died all alone, with Sir George away."

"Died!" Letty repeated, half angrily. "But that would be so horrible--what could I do?"

Marcella looked at her with a strange smile.

"Only be kind, only forget everything but her!"

The softness of her voice had yet a severity beneath it that Letty felt, but had no spirit
to resent, Rather it awakened an uneasy and painful sense that, after all, it was not she who
had come off conqueror in this great encounter. The incidents of the last half-hour seemed
in some curious way to have reversed their positions. Letty, smarting, felt that her relation
to George's dying mother had revealed her to Lady Maxwell far more than any wild and half-sincere
confessions could have done. Her vanity felt a deep inner wound, yet of a new sort. At any
rate, Marcella's self-abasement was over, and Letty instinctively realised that she would never
see it again, while at the same time a new and clinging need had arisen in herself. The very
neighbourhood of the personality beside her had begun to thrill and subjugate her. She had
been conscious enough before--enviously, hatefully conscious--of all the attributes and possessions
that made Maxwell's wife a great person in the world of London. What was stealing upon her
now was glamour and rank and influence of another kind.

Not unmixed, no doubt, with more mundane thoughts! No ordinary preacher, no middle-class eloquence
perhaps would have sufficed--nothing less dramatic and distinguished than the scene which had
actually passed, than a Marcella at her feet. Well! there are many modes and grades of conversion.
Whether by what was worst in her, or what was best; whether the same weaknesses of character
that had originally inflamed her had now helped to subdue her or no, what matter? So much stood--that
one short hour had been enough to draw this vain, selfish nature within a moral grasp she was
never again to shake off.

Meanwhile, as they drove towards Warwick Square Marcella's only thought was how to hand her
over safe to her husband. A sense of agonised responsibility awoke in the elder woman at the
thought of Cathedine. But no more emotion--only common sense and gentleness.

As they neared Warwick Square, Letty withdrew her hand.

"I don't suppose you will ever want to see me again," she said huskily, turning her head away.

"Do you think that very possible between two people who have gone through such a time as you
and I have?" said Marcella, pale, but smiling. "When may I come to see you to-morrow? I shall
send to inquire, of course, very early."

Some thought made Letty's breath come quickly. "Will you come in the afternoon--about four?"
she said hastily. "I suppose I shall be here." They were just stopping at the door in Warwick
Square. "You said you would tell me--"

"I have a great deal to tell you.... I will come, then, and see if you can be spared.... Good-night.
I trust she will be better! I will go on and send the telegram."

Letty felt her hand gravely pressed, the footman helped her out, and in another minute she
was mounting the stairs leading to Lady Tressady's room, having sent a servant on before her
to warn the nurse of her arrival.

