THE

BLACK PHALANX

AFRICAN AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN THE WAR OF INDEPENDENCE, THE WAR OF 1812, AND THE CIVIL WAR

BY

JOSEPH T. WILSON

LATE OF THE 2ND. REG'T. LA. NATIVE GUARD VOLS. 54TH MASS. VOLS. AIDE-DE-CAMP TO THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
G. A. B.

AUTHOR OF

"EMANCIPATION," "VOICE OF A NEW RACE," "TWENTY-TWO YEARS OF FREEDOM," ETC., ETC.

New Foreword by

DUDLEY TAYLOR CORNISH

DA CAPO PRESS     NEW YORK

Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data

Wilson, Joseph T. (Joseph Thomas), 1836-1891.

Previously published: Hartford, Conn.: American Pub. Co., 1890.

Includes bibliographical references.

ISBN 0-306-80550-2

1. Afro-American soldiers--History. 2. United States--History--Civil War, 1861-1865--Participation,
Afro-American. 3. United States--History--Revolution, 1775-1783--Participation, Afro-American.
4. United States--History--War of 1812--Participation, Afro-American. I. Cornish, Dudley Taylor.
II. Title. E185.63.W632 1994 93-40117 973.7-dc20 CIP

First Da Capo Press edition 1994

This Da Capo Press paperback edition of The Black Phalanx is an unabridged republication of
the edition published in Hartford, Connecticut, in 1887. It is here supplemented with a new
foreword by Dudley Taylor Cornish.

Foreword © 1994 by Dudley Taylor Cornish

Published by Da Capo Press, Inc. A Subsidiary of Plenum Publishing Corporation 233 Spring Street,
New York, N.Y. 10013

All Rights Reserved

Manufactured in the United States of America

INTRODUCTION.

By way of introduction to the American public, of the author and editor of this book, we beg
to say that Mr. Wilson is not altogether unknown to the literary world, having already published
several works relative to the Negro race.

His services during the war of the Rebellion secured for him a flattering recognition. He served
in the 2nd Regiment Louisiana Native Guard Volunteers, also the 54th Massachusetts Volunteers,--the
most famous of the Union negro regiments that engaged in the struggle, receiving several wounds.
He was the first negro member of the National Council of Administration of the Grand Army of
the Republic, and a delegate to the National Encampment, and was appointed Colonel--A. D. C.
to the Commander-in-Chief G. A. R. He was chosen by his comrades to be the historian of the
negro soldiers, and has overcome many almost insurmountable difficulties in gathering the scattered
facts, particularly those of the early wars of the United States, that were necessary to complete
this work.

THE PUBLISHERS.

DEDICATION.

To the Brave Men Who Commanded the Black Phalanx.

SOLDIERS:--As a mark of esteem and respect for your patriotic devotion to the cause of human
freedom, I desire to dedicate to you this record of the services of the negro soldiers, whom
you led so often and successfully in the struggle for liberty and union during the great war
of 1861-'65.

Your coming from the highest ranks of social life, undeterred by the prevailing spirit of caste
prejudice, to take commands in the largest negro army ever enrolled beneath the flag of any
civilized country, was in itself a brave act. The organization and disciplining of over two
hundred thousand men, of a race that for more than two centuries had patiently borne the burdens
of an unrequited bondage, for the maintenance of laws which had guaranteed to them neither
rights nor protection, was indeed a magnificent undertaking.

You were outlawed by the decrees of Jefferson Davis, criticised by many friends at home, and
contemptuously received by brother officers at headquarters, in the field, in the trenches,
and at the mess table; yet, you did not waver in your fidelity to principle or in your heroic
leadership of those whose valor was denied until it was proven in carnage and victory.

The record of the Black Phalanx invites the scrutiny of all who have been disposed to taunt
you for associating with "armed barbarians." No massacre of vanquished foe stains the banners
of those who followed you, giving quarter but receiving none. It was your teaching that served
as a complete restraint against retaliation, though statesmen hinted that it would be just.
Your training developed patriotism and courage, but not revenge. Ungrateful as Republics are
said to be, ours has aimed to recognize merit and reward it, and those who at first hailed
you with contumely, are now glad to greet you as heroes and saviors of a common country.

No true soldier desires to forget the price of his country's liberty, or that of his own; it
is the recollection of the terrible bloody onset--the audacious charge--the enemy's repulse,
which sweetens victory. And surely no soldiers can appreciate the final triumph with a keener
sense of gladness than those who fought against such odds as did the Black Phalanx. Beating
down prejudice and upholding the national cause at the same time, they have inscribed upon
their banners every important battle from April, 1863, to April, 1865.

If what I have written here shall call to your minds, and present justly to the patriotic public,
the indescribable hardships which you endured on the march, in the bivouac, and in the seething
flames of the battle's front, my task will have served its purpose. In the name of and as a
token of the gratitude of a freed race, this book is dedicated to you.

                              JOSEPH T. WILSON.

    Navy Hill, Richmond, Va.

PREFACE.

It was a dark, stormy night in the winter of 1882, when less than a hundred men, all of whom
had served their country in crushing the great Rebellion of 1861-'65, gathered around a camp-fire.
The white and the colored American were there; so were the German, Frenchman, and Irishman,--all
American citizens,--all veterans of the last war. The empty sleeve, the absent leg, the sabred
face, the bullet-scarred body of the many, told the story of the service they had seen. It
was the annual Encampment of the Department of Virginia, Grand Army of the Republic, and the
comrades of Farragut Post had tastefully arranged their quarters for the occasion.

At midnight a sumptuous soldiers fare--baked beans, hot coffee and hard tack--was spread before
the veterans, who ate and drank heartily as in the days when resting from the pursuit of the
enemy. In the morning hour, when weary from the joy of song and toast, it was proposed that
the history of the American negro soldier should be written, that posterity might have a fuller
and more complete record of the deeds of the negro soldiers than had been given in the numerous
already published histories of the conflicts in which they played so important a part.

The task of preparing the history fell to my lot, and it is in obedience to the duty laid upon
me by my former comrades, with whom I shared the toils and joys of camp, march, battle and
siege, that this volume, the result of my efforts, is launched upon the sea of war literature.

Whether or not there is any merit in the work, the reader must judge. His charity is asked,
however, toward such defects as may be apparent, and which, perhaps, might be expected in the
literary work of one whose life has been largely spent amid the darkness of the South American
countries and the isolation of the South Sea Islands. It was not until May, 1862, while domiciled
at the capitol of Chili, that I first learned of the war in the United States, when, hastening
to this country, I fell into the ranks with the first negro soldiers that left the Touro Building
at New Orleans, in November, 1862, and marched out on the Opelousas road, to serve in defence
of the Union.

With whatever forebodings of failure I entered upon the work of collecting the literature of
the war, from which to cull and arrange much of the matter contained herein,--which has required
years of incessant search and appeal,--I can but feel that it has been thoroughly done. The
public libraries of the cities of Boston, Cincinnati, New Bedford, New York, the War Department
at Washington, and the private libraries of several eminent citizens, have alike been made
use of by me.

It seemed proper, also, that the memory of our forefathers should not be allowed to remain
in longer obscurity; that it was fitting to recall their deeds of heroism, that all might know
the sacrifices they made for the freedom their descendants were so long denied from enjoying.
In gathering together the scattered facts relating to the negroe's participation in the wars
of 1775 and 1812, difficulties well-nigh insurmountable have been overcome, and it has been
only through patient and persistent effort that I have been able to prepare the chapters devoted
to the early wars of the United States.

Descriptions of a number of the battles in which negro troops took part in the late war of
the Rebellion, are given to call attention to the unsurpassed carnage which occurred, and to
give them proper place in the war's history rather than to present a critical account of the
battles. My aim has been to write in the spirit which impelled the soldiers to go forth to
battle, and to reverse the accounts given in the popular histories which ascribe to the generals
and colonels who commanded, instead of the soldiers who did the fighting, victory or defeat.
"The troops who do what can neither be expected nor required, are the ones which are victorious.
The men, who, tired and worn and hungry and exhausted, yet push into battle, are those who
win. They who persist against odds, against obstacles, against hope, who proceed or hold out
reasonably, are the conquerors," says Gen. Grant's historian. With no desire of detracting
from the commanders--if I were able--the honor due them, my aim is to credit the soldiers with
whatever heroism they may have displayed.

I acknowledge it has been a labor of love to fight many of the battles of the war of the rebellion
over again, not because of a relish for blood and the destruction of human life, but for the
memories of the past; of the bondage of a race and its struggle for freedom, awakening as they
do the intense love of country and liberty, such as one who has been without either feels,
when both have been secured by heroic effort.

To those who have responded to my appeal for information regarding the negro soldier, I have
aimed to give full credit; if any are omitted it is not intentionally done. To no one am I
more indebted for assisting in collecting data, than to Lt. J. M. Trotter, of the 55th Mass.
Reg't. nor am I unmindful of the kindness of Hon. Robert Lincoln, late Secretary of War, nor
that of Col. James D. Brady, member of Congress from Virginia, for copies of public records;
to Col. H. C. Corbin, for the record of the 14th Reg't.; and to Col. D. Torrance for that of
the 29th Reg't. Conn. I am also indebted to Maj. Gen. Wm. Mahone for a map of the defences
of Petersburg, showing the crater; to the librarian of the Young Men's Mercantile Library,
of Cincinnati, for the use of Col. Albert's carved map of Fort Wagner, and to Col. G. M. Arnold
and Hon. Joseph Jergenson for copies of historical papers; also to Hon. Libbey.

                                  J. T. W.

CONTENTS.

PART I.

THE WARS FOR INDEPENDENCE.

CHAPTER I.--THE WAR OF 1775. PAGE.

The Sentiments of the Colonists--The Agreement of 1774--The Resolutions of Ga.--The Virginians
Boycotting a Slaver--Tories Opposed to a Negro Army--Caste Prejudice not strong--The Militia
Law of Mass. in 1652--Negro Sentinels at Meeting houses--Crispus Attucks leads the whites to
an attack upon British Soldiers--Resolution of the Committee of Safety--Battle of Bunker Hill--Peter
Salem Kills the British Maj. Pitcairn--Petition to the General court of Mass. Bay--Biographical
account of Peter Salem--Manumitting of Slaves to allow them to become Soldiers--Meeting of
the Committee of Conference--Gen. Washington writes the President regarding Negro Soldiers--Action
of Congress sustaining Gen. Washington--The First Question of "color" in the Army--Negroes
allowed in the S. C. Militia--Dr. Hopkins' Article concerning Slavery--Lord Dunmore visits
Norfolk, 1775--Proclamation of Lord Dunmore--The Dread of the Colonists--An Unreasonable Fear--Action
of the Conn. General Assembly, 1777--Letter from Gen. Green to Gen. Washington--Daring Exploits
of Prince and other Negroes at Newport, R. I.--The Storming of Fort Griswold--Action of the
State of R. I.--Action of the State of New York, 1781--Proclamation of Sir Henry Clinton--The
Colonists beginning to favor Negro Troops--Gen. Washington's Emphatic Language--Re-enslavement
of Discharged Negro Soldiers--Action of the Legislature of Virginia                       
21

CHAPTER II.--THE WAR OF 1812.

The Principal Cause of the War--Seizure of American Negro Sailors--Outrages upon American Ships--The
Declaration of War--The Battle of Lake Erie--Negroes on American Privateers--Action of the
Legislature of La.--Review of Negro Troops in New Orleans--The Battle of New Orleans      
72

PART II.

THE WAR BETWEEN THE STATES.

CHAPTER I.--PUBLIC OPINION.

Existing Prejudice--No Prejudice in Europe--DeTocqueville's Views--The New Race--Southern Opinions--The
Negro's Ambition--The Coast Pursuit in the Navy--A Change of Policy--Public Opinions Changed
81

CHAPTER II.--RECRUITING AND ORGANIZING.

The Unpleasant duties of a Recruiting Officer--Henry Wilson's Bill in Congress for the Arming
of Negroes, 1862--Mr. Stevens' Amendment to the Enrollment Act, 1864--Orders for the Enrollment
of Negroes in the Miss. Valley--Curious way of Keeping ranks full--The Date of the First Organization
of Colored Troops--The Organization of the 24th Mass. Regiment--Their Quarters at Morris Island--Refusing
to do Menial Service--Short Pay for Negro Troops--Negroes Enlisting for Bounty--Record of total
number of Negroes who Served in the Army         93

CHAPTER III.--RECRUITING AND ORGANIZING IN SOUTH CAROLINA.

Private Miles O'Reilly's Account of Gen. Hunter's Black Troops--The First Negro Troops in the
Field--Gen. Hunter's Humorous Report to Congress--Jefferson Davis declares Gen. Hunter and
his Officers Outlaws--Gen. Hunter's suppressed Letter to Jefferson Davis--Miles O'Reilly's
Humorous Poem, "Sambo's Right to be Kil't"                   145

CHAPTER IV.--OFFICERS OF THE PHALANX.

Officers of the Phalanx--Character and Qualifications of the men who commanded Negro Troops--The
Examination of Candidates for Commissioners--Some of the Negroes who rose from the Ranks--Gen.
Banks' idea of Officering the Corps d'Afrique 166

CHAPTER V.--DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF.

The Surrender of Confederate Negro Troops at New Orleans--Slaves flocking to the Union Camp--Gen.
Phelps desires to Arm them--Butler Refuses--Gen. Phelps' Resignation--Gen. Butler converted
to the Policy of Arming Negroes--Negroes Enlisted at New Orleans--Gen. Weitzel placed in Command--The
fight at Mansfield--The Battle of Milliken's Bend--Indignities offered to Phalanx Soldiers--The
affair at Ship Island--Port Hudson--The Struggle--Desperate Fighting of the Phalanx--A Useless
Effort--Perilous Duties of the Engineers--Boker's Poem on the fight at Port Hudson        
183

CHAPTER VI.--THE ARMY OF THE FRONTIER.

Iowa's splendid Response to the Call--Refusal of the Phalanx Troops to Accept the Pay offered
by the Government--Active times at Helena--The Confederate General Dobbins makes an Attack--A
Spirited Fight--A Critical Situation--Re-enforcement by White Cavalry--The Honor Due to Kansas--The
report of the Service of Kansas Negro Troops--Col. Crawford's report for the 2nd Kansas Regiment
220

CHAPTER VII.--DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH.

Gen. Hunter's Important Action--Organization of the 1st South Carolina--An Expedition up the
St. Mary's River--Fort Wagner--Description of the Fort--Plans for the Assault--The forming
of the line--The Assault--Magnificent Fighting--Death of Col. Shaw--Useless Slaughter--The
Confederate Account of the Assault upon Fort Wagner--Movements in Florida--The Landing at Jacksonville--Raids
on the surrounding country--The Advance towards Tallahassee--The Troops reach Barbour's Station--The
Battle of Olustee--Desperate Fighting on both Sides--A Terrible Defeat--The Union Troops routed--Drawing
away the Wounded on railway cars--Return to Baldwin's--The 54th Mass.--Boykin's Mill--The "Swamp
Angel"--Inquiries Respecting Negro Troops--Labor Days of the Negro Troops                 
249

CHAPTER VIII.--THE ARMY OF THE CUMBERLAND.

Services in the West--The Mississippi River Guarded by the Phalanx--Gen. Morgan's Historical
Sketch--The Rendezvous at Gallatin--The Place Threatened by Guerillas--Organizing a Regiment--Negro
Soldiers ordered to Alabama--An Incident--A School in camp--The Battle at Dalton, Ga.--Good
Behavior of the troops there--Honors to the 51st Colored--Sharp Fighting at Pulaski, Tenn.--An
Incident of the Fight--An Engagement at Decatur--Ordered to Nashville--Severe Fighting at that
place--A Reconnoissance--The Defeat of Gen. Hood--A Pursuit to Huntsville--A Glorious Record
286

CHAPTER IX.--THE PHALANX AT MARION, TENN.

Sherman's March to the Sea--Destruction of the Confederate Bridge over the Big Black river--Confederates
Attack Federals near Morristown--Gillem's Troops Driven into Knoxville--The Confederates Retreat--Federals
Pursued to Marion--Struggle for the Possession of the Salt Works--The Charge of the 6th Regiment--Gen.
Brisbin's account of the Battle--The Salt Works Destroyed--Personal Bravery                  308

CHAPTER X.--THE BLACK FLAG.

The Phalanx acquiring a Reputation--No Blacks Paroled--Gen. Grant's Letter to the Confederate
General Taylor--Jefferson Davis' Proclamation respecting Negro Soldiers--Mr. Davis' Third Annual
Message--Action of the Confederate Congress--Negro Soldiers Captured by the Confederates receive
Punishment--Retaliation by the Federal Government--Refusal to Exchange captured Negro Troops--Order
from President Lincoln in relation thereto--Report of the Congressional Committee in regard
to Barbarities Inflicted upon captured Union Prisoners--Report of the Congressional Committee
in regard to the Fort Pillow Massacre--Testimony given--Sketches of Prison Life--Schemes for
Escaping from Confederate Prisons--Life in Libby Prison--The Effect of the Fort Pillow Massacre
on the Black Soldiers--Their Desire to Retaliate--Correspondence between Gens. Forrest and
Washburn--A Confederate Account, written in 1883--A Confederate Account of Price's Cross-Roads--Heavy
Fighting--Gallant Conduct of the Federal Cavalry--The Rout of the Federal Force--The Phalanx
Saves the White Troops from Capture--Gen. Sturgis Criticised    315

CHAPTER XI.--THE PHALANX IN VIRGINIA.

Transfer of Negro Troops from the West and South to Virginia--Preparations for a New Campaign--9th
Army Corps passing Through Washington--Army of the Potomac--Battle at Bailey's farm--Siege
of Petersburg--Digging a Mine--Phalanx Troops preparing to lead the Assault--Disappointment--Explosion
of the Mine--Terrible Slaughter--Failure of the Attempt to Take the Redoubt--New Movement Against
Richmond--New Market Heights--Capture of Petersburg--Fall of Richmond--Appomattox--Surrender
of Lee                                  377

Chapter XII.--THE ROLL OF HONOR.

Phalanx Soldiers who received Medals of Honor from the United States Government for Heroism
463

CHAPTER XIII.--THE ROSTER OF THE BLACK PHALANX.

Complete list from the Government Records, as far as can be obtained, of Negro Military Organizations
in all branches of the Service, with their Chief Commanders--Battles--Dates of Organization
and Dismissal          464

CHAPTER XIV.--THE CONFEDERATE SERVICE.

Preparation in the South for Hostilities--Early Organizations of Battalions of Free Negroes--Review
of Troops in New Orleans--Employment of Negroes in Constructing Fortifications--Early Enacting
of State Laws authorizing the enrollment of Negroes for Military Service--The Appearance of
a few Negro Troops announced by the Press--Apparent Enthusiasm of some Blacks--Effect on the
Negroes of the Change in Northern Policy--Necessity for Negro Troops--Strong Opposition throughout
the South--Letters from Gen. R. E. Lee urging the Organization of Black Regiments--Exciting
Debates in the Confederate Congress--Passage of the Negro Bill--The Clerk's of the War Department
Record--Letter from Jefferson Davis--Enlistment began, etc.             481

PART III.

MISCELLANY.

CHAPTER I.--THE PHALANX AT SCHOOL.

Efforts of Negro Soldiers to Educate themselves--Studies pursued in the Army--Officers acting
as Teachers--Contributions to Educational Institutions                                    
503

CHAPTER II.--BENEVOLENCE AND FRUGALITY.

Personal Economy practiced for Benevolent purposes--Contributions to the Lincoln Institute
as a Monument--Magnificent Contributions to the Lincoln Monument--Some figures in reference
to the Freemen's Bank       508

CHAPTER III.--BIBLIOGRAPHY.

List of Publications made use of                                        517

APPENDIX.

ILLUSTRATIONS

1. Portrait--JOSEPH T. WILSON                      Frontispiece. 2. DEATH OF CRISPUS ATTUCKS
Face Page  26 3. BATTLE OF BUNKER HILL                                      34 4. ON PICKET
52 5. NAVAL BATTLE                                               77 6. UNSHACKLED         
90 7. Portrait--ROBERT SMALLS                                    96 8.    "    --WILLIAM MORRISON
" 9.    "    --A. GRADINE                                       " 10.   "    --JOHN SMALLS
" 11. QUARTERS FOR CONTRABANDS                                 103 12. DRIVING GOVERNMENT CATTLE
104 13. SCENE IN AND NEAR A RECRUITING OFFICE                    110 14. TEAMSTER OF THE ARMY
112 15. HEADQUARTERS OF SUPERINTENDENT OF THE POOR               116 16. PROVOST GUARD SECURING
CONSCRIPTS                        123 17. NEW RECRUITS TAKING CARS                        
126 18. SCENE AT NEW BERNE, N. C.                                134 19. MUSTERING INTO SERVICE
138 20. ORGANIZING AND DRILLING                                  142 21. FORTIFICATIONS AT
HILTON HEAD                            148 22. BUILDING ROADS                             
154 23. OFF FOR THE WAR                                          160 24. Portrait--MAJOR MARTIN
R. DELANEY                        166 25. Portrait--CAPT. O. S. B. WALL                   
172 26. Portrait--CAPT. P. B. S. PINCHBACK.                      176 27.    "    --LT. JAMES
M. TROTTER                            " 28.    "    --SURGEON A. T. AUGUSTA               
" 29.    "    --LT. W. H. DUPREE.                               " 30. Portrait--SERG'T W. H.
CARNEY                            180 31. WASHING IN CAMP                                 
184 32. COOKING IN CAMP                                          191 33. POINT ISABEL, TEXAS
199 34. THE RECRUITING OFFICE                                    200 35. BATTLE OF MILLIKEN'S
BEND                                204 36. UNLOADING GOVERNMENT STORES                   
211 37. CHARGE OF THE PHALANX AT PORT HUDSON                     214 38. PRESENTATION OF COLORS
(1)                               223 39. REPELLING AN ATTACK                             
231 40. CAVALRY BRINGING IN PRISONERS                            236 41. CAPTURING BATTERY
OF ARTILLERY                           242 42. THE WOODEN HORSE                           
249 43. AT FORT WAGNER                                           255 44. BRILLIANT CHARGE OF
THE PHALANX                          270 45. RIVER PICKET DUTY                            
277 46. CHANGED CONDITIONS                                       286 47. SERVING REFRESHMENTS
TO UNION TROOPS                     306 48. SCOUTING SERVICE                              
312 49. FIGHTING BLOODHOUNDS                                     320 50. NEGROES FEEDING ESCAPING
UNION PRISONERS                 342 51. MASSACRE AT FORT PILLOW                           
350 52. PHALANX REGIMENT RECEIVING ITS FLAGS (2)                 377 53. PARADE OF THE 20TH
REGIMENT U. S. C. T. IN NEW YORK      378 54. SCENE IN THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC            
391 55. AT WORK ON RIVER OBSTRUCTIONS                            401 56. PHALANX CHARGE AT
PETERSBURG, VA.                        402 57. IN THE TRENCHES                            
411 58. BEFORE PETERSBURG, BURYING DEAD UNDER FLAG OF TRUCE      425 59. A GOVERNMENT BLACKSMITH
SHOP                             445 60. GENERAL GRANT AND THE NEGRO SENTINEL             
446 61. ABRAHAM LINCOLN ENTERING RICHMOND                        452 62. ON DUTY FOR THE CONFEDERATES
484 63. A CONFEDERATE SHARPSHOOTER                               499 64. "PAYING OFF"     
506

PART I.

THE WARS FOR INDEPENDENCE

1775-1812.

CHAPTER I.

THE WAR OF 1775.

The history of the patriotic Negro Americans who swelled the ranks of the Colonial and Continental
armies has never been written, nor was any attempt made by the historians of that day to record
the deeds of those who dared to face death for the independence of the American Colonies. W.
H. Day, in addressing a convention of negro men at Cleveland, O., in 1852, truly said: "Of
the services and sufferings of the colored soldiers of the Revolution, no attempt has, to our
knowledge, been made to preserve a record. Their history is not written; it lies upon the soil
watered with their blood; who shall gather it? It rests with their bones in the charnel house;
who shall exhume it?" Upon reading these lines, it occurred to me that somewhere among the
archives of that period there must exist at least a clue to the record of the negro patriots
of that war. If I cannot exclaim Eureka, after years of diligent search, I take pride in presenting
what I have found scattered throughout the pages of the early histories and literature, and
from the correspondence of men who in that period discussed the topics of the day--who led
and fashioned public opinion, many of whom commanded in the field. Not a few biographers have
contributed to my fund of knowledge. To avoid as much as possible the charge of plagiarism
I have aimed to give credit to my informants for what shall follow regarding the colored patriots
in the war of the Revolution. I have reason to believe that I have gathered much that has been
obscure; that I have exhumed the bones of that noble Phalanx who, at Bunker Hill and Yorktown,
in various military employments, served their country. It is true they were few in number when
compared to the host that entered the service in the late Rebellion, but it must be remembered
that their number was small at that time in the country, and that the seat of war was at the
North, and not, as in the late war, at the South, where their numbers have always been large.

Of the three hundred thousand troops in the Revolutionary war, it has been estimated that five
thousand were colored, and these came principally from the North, whose colored population
at that time was about 50,000, while the Southern colonies contained about 300,000. The interest
felt in the two sections for the success of the cause of independence, if referred to the army,
can easily be seen. The Northern colonies furnished two hundred and forty-nine thousand, five
hundred and three, and the Southern colonies one hundred and forty-seven thousand, nine hundred
and forty soldiers, though the whole population of each section was within a few hundred of
being equal.

The love of liberty was no less strong with the Southern than with the Northern colored man,
as their efforts for liberty show. At the North he gained his freedom by entering the American
army; at the South, only by entering the British army, which was joined by more than fifteen
thousand colored men. Jefferson says 30,000 negroes from Virginia alone went to the British
army. I make the digression simply to assert that had the colored men at the South possessed
the same opportunity as those at the North, of enlisting in the American army, a large force
of colored men would have been in the field, fighting for America's independence. Of the services
of the little band, scattered as they were throughout the army, two or three in a company composed
of whites, a squad in a regiment, a few companies with an army, made it quite impossible for
their record, beyond this, to be distinct from the organizations they were attached to. However,
enough has been culled from the history of that conflict, to show that they bore a brave part
in the struggle which wrested the colonies from the control of Great Britain, and won for themselves
and offspring, freedom, which many of them never enjoyed. I have studiously avoided narrating
the conduct of those who cast their fortune with the British, save those who went with Lord
Dunmore, for reasons too obvious to make mention of.

The sentiments of a majority of the people of the colonies were in full accord with the declaration
opposing slavery, and they sought to give it supremacy by their success in the conflict. Slavery,
which barred the entrance to the army of the colored man at the South, had been denounced by
the colonist before the adoption of the articles of confederation, and was maintained solely
by local regulations.

    "IV.--Resolved, That we will neither import or purchase
    any slave imported from Africa or elsewhere after this day,
    (July, 6.")

The sincerity with which this agreement was entered into may be seen by the action of the colonists
at Norfolk, Virginia, where, in March, 1775, a brig arrived from the coast of Guinea, via Jamaica,
with a number of slaves on board consigned to a merchant of that town. To use a modern phrase
the vessel was boycotted by the committee, who published the following:

                        "TO THE FREEMEN OF VIRGINIA.

This was the voice of a majority of the colonists, and those who dissented were regarded as
Tories, and in favor of the crown as against the independence of the colonies, although there
were many at the North and South who held slaves, and were yet loyal to the cause of the colonies;
but the public sentiment was undoubtedly as strong against the institution as it was in 1864.
But the Tories were numerous at the South, and by continually exciting the imagination of the
whites by picturing massacre and insurrection on the part of the negros if they were armed,
thwarted the effort of Col. Lauren's and of Congress to raise a "negro army" at the South.
The leaders were favorable to it, but the colonists, for the reason cited, were distrustful
of its practicability. Though a strong effort was made, as will be seen, the scare raised by
the Tories prevented its success. Notwithstanding, hundreds of colored men, slave and free,
at the South, not only followed the army but in every engagement took an active part on the
side of the colonist. They were not enrolled and mustered into the army, it is true, but they
rendered important service to the cause.

The caste prejudice now so strong in the country was then in its infancy. A white man at that
time lived with a colored woman without fear of incurring the ostracism of his neighbors, and
with the same impunity he lived with an Indian Squaw. So common was this practice, that in
order to correct it laws were passed forbidding it. The treatment of the slaves was not what
it came to be after the war, nor had the spirit of resentment been stifled in them as it was
subsequently. Manifestations of their courage and manliness were not wanting when injustice
was attempted to be practiced against them, consequently the spirit and courage with which
they went into the conflict were quite equal to that of the whites, who were ever ready to
applaud them for deeds of daring. It is only through this medium that we have discovered the
meed of praise due the little Phalanx, which linked its fortune with the success of the American
army, and of whom the following interesting facts can now be recorded.

It is well for the negro and for his descendants in America, cosmopolitan as it is, that his
race retains its distinctive characteristics, color and features, otherwise they would not
have, as now, a history to hand down to posterity so gloriously patriotic and interesting.
His amalgamation with other races is attributable to the relation which it bore to them, although
inter-marriage was not allowed. By the common consent of his enslavers, he was allowed to live
clandestinely with the women of his own color; sometimes from humane considerations, sometimes
from a standpoint of gain, but always as a slave or a subject of the slave code. Reduced from
his natural state of freedom by his misfortune in tribal war, to that of a slave, and then
transported by the consent of his captors and enemies to these shores, and sold into an unrequited
bondage, the fire of his courage,--like that of other races similarly situated, without hope
of liberty; doomed to toil,--slackened into an apathetic state, and seeming willing servitude,
which produced a resignation to fate from 1619 to 1770, more than a century and a half. At
the latter date, for the first time in the history of what is now the United States, the negro,
inspired with the love of liberty, aimed a blow at the authority that held him in bondage.
In numerous instances, when the Indians attacked the white settlers, particularly in the Northern
colonies, negroes were summoned and took part in the defense of the settlements.

As early as 1652, the militia law of Massachusetts required negroes, Scotchmen and Indians,--the
indentured slaves of Cromwell, who encountered his army at the battle of Dunbar,--to train
in the militia. Nor was it an uncommon occurrence for them to be manumitted for meritorious
and courageous action in defending their masters' families, often in the absence of the master,
when attacked by the red men of the woods. It was not infrequent to find the negro as a sentinel
at the meeting-house door; or serving as a barricade for the master's mansion. The Indian was
more of a terror to him than the boa-constrictor; though slaves, they knew that if captured
by the Indians their fate would be the same as that of the white man; consequently they fought
with a desperation equal to that of the whites, against the common enemy. So accustomed did
they become to the use of arms, that one of the first acts of the settlers after the Indians
were driven from the forest, was to disarm and forbid negroes keeping or handling fire-arms
and weapons of every sort. This was done from a sense of self-preservation and fear that the
negroes might (and many did) attempt to revenge themselves when cruelly treated, or rise in
mutiny and massacre the whites.

But it was not until 1770, when the fervor of rebellion had influenced the people of the colonies,
and Capt. Preston, with the King's soldiers, appeared in King Street, Boston, to enforce the
decree of the British Parliament, that the people met the troops face to face. This lent force
to the rebellious spirit against the Mother Country, which the people of the United Northern
Colonies had felt called upon to manifest in public meetings and by written resolutions. The
soldiers were regarded as invaders. And while the leading men of Boston were discussing and
deliberating as to what steps should be taken to drive the British troops out of the town,
Crispus Attucks, a negro runaway slave,[1] led a crowd against the soldiers, with brave words
of encouragement. The soldiers fired upon them, killing the negro leader, Attucks, first, and
then two white men, and mortally wounding two others. A writer says:

     "The presence of the British soldiers in King Street,
     excited the patriotic indignation of the people. The whole
     community was stirred, and sage counsellors were
     deliberating and writing and talking about the public
     grievances. But it was not for the 'wise and prudent' to be
     first to act against the encroachments of arbitrary power.
     A motley rabble of saucy boys, negroes and mulattoes, Irish
     Jeazues, and outlandish Jack tars, (as John Adams described
     them in his plea in defence of the soldiers), could not
     restrain their emotion, or stop to enquire if what they
     must do was according to the letter of the law. Crispus Attucks was the first to
     fall; he and Samuel Gray and Jonas Caldwell were killed on
     the spot. Samuel Maverick and Patrick Carr were mortally
     wounded. The excitement which followed was intense. The
     bells of the town were rung. An impromptu town-meeting was
     held, and an immense assembly was gathered. Three days
     after, on the 17th, a public funeral of the martyr took
     place. The shops in Boston were closed, and all the bells of
     Boston and the neighboring towns were rung. It is said that
     a greater number of persons assembled on this occasion, than
     ever before gathered on this continent for a similar
     purpose. The body of Crispus Attucks, the mulatto, had been
     placed in Fanueil Hall with that of Caldwell; both being
     strangers in the city. Not only was the event
     commemorated, but the martyrs who then gave up their lives
     were remembered and honored."

Thus the first blood for liberty shed in the colonies was that of a real slave and a negro.
As the news of the affray spread, the people became aroused throughout the land. Soon, in every
town and village, meetings were held, and the colonists urged to resist the oppressive and
aggressive measures which the British Parliament had passed, and for the enforcement of which
troops had been stationed in Boston, and as we see, had shot down those who dared to oppose
them. In all the colonies slavery was at this time tolerated, though the number of slaves was
by no means large in the Northern Colonies, nor had there been a general ill treatment of them,
as in after years in the Southern States. Their war-like courage, it is true, had been slackened,
but their manhood had not been crushed.

Crispus Attucks was a fair representative of the colonial negro, as they
evinced thereafter, during the prolonged struggle which resulted in the
Independence of the United States. When the tocsin sounded "to arms, to
arms, ye who would be free," the negro responded to the call, and side
by side with the white patriots of the colonial militia, bled and died. For the right of free
     negroes to bear arms in the public defense was, at that day,
     as little disputed in New England as other rights. They took
     their place, not in a separate corps, but in the ranks with
     the white men; and their names may be seen on the
     pension-rolls of the country, side by side with those of
     other soldiers of the Revolution."

It was not the free only who took up arms in defence of America's independence; not alone those
who, in preceding wars,--Indian and French,--had gained their liberty, that swelled the ranks
of the colonial militia; but slaves, inspired by the hope of freedom, went to the front, as
Attucks had done when he cut the Gordian knot that held the colonies to Great Britain. "From
that moment we may date the severance of the British Empire," said Daniel Webster, in his Bunker
Hill oration, referring to the massacre on the 5th of March, 1770. The thirst for freedom was
universal among the people of New England. With them liberty was not circumscribed by condition
and now, since the slave Attucks had struck the first blow for America's independence, thereby
electrifying the colonies and putting quite a different phase upon their grievances, the people
were called upon to witness a real slave struggling with his oppressors for his freedom. It
touched the people of the colonies as they had never been touched before, and they arrayed
themselves for true freedom.

The year previous, John Hancock was the orator on the occasion of the 4th anniversary of the
shedding of the first blood for the Independence of America, and he thus presents the case
to a Boston audience yet smarting under the insult and sting given them by the British soldiery:

     "But I forbear, and come reluctantly to the transactions of
     that dismal night, when in such quick succession, we felt
     the extremes of grief, astonishment and rage; when Heaven,
     in anger, for a dreadful moment suffered Hell to take the
     reins; when Satan with his chosen band opened the sluices of
     New England's blood, and sacrilegiously polluted our land
     with the dead bodies of her guiltless sons. Let this sad
     tale of death never be told without a tear; let the heaving
     bosom cause to burn with a manly indignation at the
     barbarous story, through the long tracts of future time; let
     every parent tell the shameful story to his listening
     children 'til tears of pity glisten in their eyes, and
     boiling passions shake their tender frames; and whilst the
     anniversary of that ill-fated night is kept a jubilee in the
     grim court of pandemonium, let all America join in one
     common prayer to Heaven, that the inhuman, unprovoked
     murders of the 5th of March, 1770, planned by Hillsborough
     and a knot of treacherous knaves in Boston, and executed by
     the cruel hand of Preston and his sanguinary coadjutors, may
     ever stand in history without a parallel. But what, my
     countrymen, withheld the ready arm of vengeance from
     executing instant justice on the vile assassins? Perhaps you
     feared promiscuous carnage might ensue, and that the
     innocent might share the fate of those who had performed the
     infernal deed. But were not all guilty? Were you not too
     tender of the lives of those who came to fix a yoke on your
     necks? But I must not too severely blame you for a fault
     which great souls only can commit. May that magnificence of
     spirit which scorns the low pursuit of malice; may that
     generous compassion which often preserves from ruin, even a
     guilty villain, forever actuate the noble bosoms of
     Americans! But let not the miscreant host vainly imagine
     that we feared their arms. No, those we despised; we dread
     nothing but slavery. Death is the creature of a poltroon's
     brains; 'tis immortality to sacrifice ourselves for the
     salvation of our country. We fear not death. That gloomy
     night, the pale-face moon, and the affrighted stars that
     hurried through the sky, can witness that we fear not death.
     Our hearts, which, at the recollection, glow with rage that
     four revolving years have scarcely taught us to restrain,
     can witness that we fear not death; and happy it is for
     those who dared to insult us, that their naked bones are not
     now piled up an ever-lasting monument of Massachusetts
     bravery. But they retired; they fled, and in that flight
     they found their only safety. We then expected that the hand
     of public justice would soon inflict that punishment upon
     the murderers, which, by the laws of God and man, they had
     incurred. But let the unbiassed pen of a Robertson, or
     perhaps of some equally famed American, conduct this trial
     before the great tribunal of succeeding generations. And
     though the murderers may escape the just resentment of an
     enraged people; though drowsy justice, intoxicated by the
     poisonous draft prepared for her cup, still nods upon her
     rotten seat, yet be assured, such complicated crimes will
     meet their due reward.

The orators of New England poured out upon this once slave,--now hero and martyr,--their unstinted
praise. We have but to recall the recollection of the earliest conflicts which the colonist
had with the British, in order to see the negro occupying a place in the ranks of the patriot
army. Their white fellow-citizens were only too glad to take ground to the left, in order that
they could fall in on their colors. And they did good service whenever they fought, as the
record shows.

The exception was well taken, and this act of the Committee, excluding slaves from the army,
placed the rebels upon the basis of patriots, fighting for freedom. This, however, did not
detract from those who had already distinguished themselves, by their bravery at Bunker Hill
a few weeks previous, where Peter Salem, once a slave, fought side by side in the ranks with
the white soldiers. When the British Major Pitcairn mounted the redoubt, upon that memorable
occasion, shouting, "The day is ours!" Peter Salem poured the contents of his gun into that
officer's body, killing him instantly, and checking, temporarily, the advance of the British.
Swett, in his "Sketches of Bunker Hill Battle," says:

     "Major Pitcairn caused the first effusion of blood at
     Lexington. In that battle, his horse was shot under him,
     while he was separated from his troops. With presence of
     mind he feigned himself slain; his pistols were taken from
     his holsters, and he was left for dead, when he seized the
     opportunity and escaped. He appeared at Bunker Hill, and,
     says the historian, 'Among those who mounted the works was
     the gallant Major Pitcairn, who exultingly cried out, 'The
     day is ours!' when a black soldier, named Salem, shot him
     through and he fell. His agonized son received him in his
     arms, and tenderly bore him to the boats.' A contribution
     was made in the army for the colored soldier, and he was
     presented to Washington as having performed this feat."

Mr. Aaron White, of Thompson, Conn., in a letter to George Livermore, Esq., of the Massachusetts
Historical Society, writes:

     "With regard to the black Hero of Bunker Hill, I never knew
     him personally, nor did I ever hear from his lips the story
     of his achievements; but I have better authority. About the
     year 1809, I heard a soldier of the Revolution, who was
     present at the Bunker Hill Battle, relate to my father the
     story of the death of Major Pitcairn. He said the Major had
     passed the storm of fire without, and had mounted the
     redoubt, when, waving his sword, he commanded, in a loud
     voice, the 'rebels' to surrender. My informant declared that he was so near, that he
     distinctly saw the act. The story made quite an impression
     on my mind. I have frequently heard my father relate the
     story, and have no doubt of its truth. My father on the day
     of the battle was a mere child, and witnessed the battle and
     burning of Charlestown from Roxbury Hill, sitting on the
     shoulders of the Rev. Mr. Jackson, who said to him as he
     placed him on the ground, 'Now, boy, do you remember this!'
     Consequently, after such an injunction, he would necessarily
     pay particular attention to anecdotes concerning the first
     and only battle he ever witnessed."

Salem was undoubtedly one of the chief heroes of that ever memorable
battle. Orator, historian, poet, all give this sable patriot credit for
having been instrumental in checking the British advance and saving the
day. PRESCOTT, Col.
     EPHM. COREY, Lieut.
     JOSEPH BAKER, Lieut.
     JOSHUA ROW, Lieut.
     JONAS RICHARDSON, Capt
     ELIPHALET BODWELL, SG'T.
     THOMAS NIXON, Lt. Col.
     WM. PRESCOTT, Col.
     EPHM.

A biographical account of Peter Salem is given in the following newspaper extract:

     "April, 1882, the town of Framingham voted to place a
     memorial stone over the grave of Peter Salem, alias Salem
     Middlesex, whose last resting place in the old burial ground
     at Framingham Centre has been unmarked for years. For this
     purpose $150 was appropriated by the town. The committee in
     charge of the matter has placed a neat granite memorial over
     his grave, and it bears the following inscription: "Peter
     Salem, a soldier of the revolution, Died Aug. 16, 1816.
     Concord, Bunker Hill, Saratoga. Erected by the town, 1882."
     Peter Salem was the colored man who particularly
     distinguished himself in the revolutionary war by shooting
     down Major Pitcairn at the battle of Bunker Hill, as he was
     mounting a redoubt and shouting, "The day is ours!" this
     being the time when Pitcairn fell back into the arms of his
     son. Peter Salem served faithfully in the war for seven
     years in the companies of minute men under the command of
     Capt. John Nixon and Capt. Simon Edgell of Framingham, and
     came out of it unharmed. He was a slave, and was owned,
     originally, by Capt. Jeremiah Belknap of Framingham, being
     sold by him to Major Lawson Buckminster of that town, he
     becoming a free man when he joined the army. Salem was born
     in Framingham, and, in 1783, married Katie Benson, a
     Granddaughter of Nero, living for a time near what is now
     the State muster field. He removed to Leicester after the
     close of the war, his last abode in that town being a cabin
     on the road leading from Leicester to Auburn. He was removed
     to Framingham, where he had gained a settlement in 1816 and
     there he died."

Salem was not the only negro at the battle of Bunker Hill. Says an authority:

     "Col. Trumbull in his celebrated historic picture of this
     battle, introduces conspicuously the colored patriot. At the
     time of the battle, the artist, then acting as adjutant, was
     stationed with his regiment at Roxbury, and saw the action
     from this point. The picture was painted in 1786 when the
     event was fresh in his mind. It is a significant historical
     fact, pertinent to our present research, that, among the
     limited number of figures introduced on the canvas, more
     than one negro soldier can be distinctly seen."

Of the others who participated in the battle we have knowledge of Salem Poor, whose bravery
won for him favorable comment.

Major Wm. Lawrence, who fought through the war for independence, from Concord, until the peace
of 1783, participating in many of the severest battles of the war. Says a memoir:

     "At Bunker Hill, where he was slightly wounded, his coat and
     hat were pierced with the balls of the enemy, and were
     preserved in the family for several years.

The Committee of Safety having excluded slaves from the army, many were thereafter manumitted,
that they might enlist. There was no law regulating enlistment in the army at the time which
required the color of a soldier's skin to be recorded or regarded. A prejudice existed in the
legislature that prompted that body to begin a series of special enactments, regarding negroes,
which did not exclude them altogether from the army, but looked to their organization into
exclusive companies, batallions and regiments.

This was in July, and on the 26th of the following September, Edward Rutledge, of South Carolina,
moved in the Colonial Congress that all negroes be discharged that were in the army. As might
be expected, his proposition was strongly supported by the Southern delegates, but the Northern
delegates being so much stronger, voted it down. The negroes were crowding so rapidly into
the army, and the Northern colonists finding their Southern comrades so strongly opposing this
element of strength, submitted the question of their enlistment to a conference committee in
October, composed of such men as Dr. Franklin, Benjamin Harrison and Thomas Lynch, with the
Deputy Governors of Connecticut and Rhode Island. This committee met at Cambridge, with a committee
of the council of Massachusetts Bay. The object and duty of the meeting was to consider the
condition of the army, and to devise means by which it could be improved.

General Washington was present at the meeting, and took part in the discussions.

In the organization of the new army, were many officers and men, who had served with negroes
in the militia, and who had been re-enlisted in the colonial army. They protested against the
exclusion of their old comrades, on account of color. So very strong were their protests that
most of the rank and file of the Northern troops regarded the matter as of serious import to
the colonies, and of danger to the wives and families of those in the field. There was quite
a large number of free negroes in the Northern Colonies at this time, and the patriotism displayed
by those who had the opportunity of serving in the militia during the early stages of the war,
aroused a feeling which prompted a great many masters to offer to the commander of the army
the services of their slaves, and to the slaves their freedom, if their services were accepted.

The question of color first entered the army by order of Washington's predecessor, Gen. Artemus
Ward, who in his first general order required the "complexion" of the soldier to be entered
upon the roll. In October, 1775, Gen. Thomas wrote the following letter to John Adams. The
general was in every way competent to draw a true picture of the army, and had the opportunity
of observation.

Despite all prejudice, the negro, as in all conflicts since, sought every opportunity to show
his patriotism, and his unquenchable thirst for liberty; and no matter in what capacity he
entered the service, whether as body-servant, hostler or teamster, he always displayed the
same characteristic courage.

The foregoing resolution must not in any way be understood as sanctioning the employment of
negroes as soldiers, notwithstanding some of the ablest men of the State advocated the enlistment
of negroes in the army; the opposition was too strong to carry the measure through either Congress
or the legislature. The feeling among the Northern colonists may be shown by citing the views
of some of their leading men, and none perhaps was better calculated to give a clear expression
of their views, than the Rev. Dr. Hopkins, of Newport, R. I., who wrote a "Dialogue Concerning
the slavery of the Africans," published soon after the commencement of hostilities.

Therefore it will be observed that public opinion regarding the arming of negroes in the North
and South, was controlled by sectional interest in the one, and the love of liberty in the
other. That both desired America's Independence, no one will doubt, but that one section was
more willing than the other to sacrifice slavery for freedom, I think is equally as plain.
While the colonists were debating with much anxiety the subject of what to do with the negroes,
the New England States were endeavoring to draw the Southern States or Colonies into the war
by electing George Washington as Commander of the army at Cambridge, and accepting the mis-interpretations
of the declarations of war. The Punic faith with which the Southern States entered the war
for liberty humiliated the army, and wrung from its commander the letter written to Congress,
and its approval of his course in re-enlisting free negroes. Meanwhile the British were actively
engaged in recruiting and organizing negroes into their army and navy.

In November, 1775, Lord Dunmore visited Norfolk, Virginia,[3] and, as Governor, finding his
authority as such not regarded by the whites, issued a proclamation offering freedom to the
slaves who would join the British army. A full description of the State of affairs at that
time, is thus given by an English historian:

     "In letters which had been laid before the English
     Parliament, and published to the whole world, he (Lord
     Dunmore) had represented the planters as ambitious, selfish
     men, pursuing their own interest and advancement at the
     expense of their poorer countrymen, and as being ready to
     make every sacrifice of honesty and principle, and he had
     said more privately, that, since they were so anxious for
     liberty,--for more freedom than was consistent with the free
     institutions of the Mother Country and the charter of the
     Colony,--that since they were so eager to abolish a fanciful
     slavery in a dependence on Great Britain, he would try how
     they liked abolition of real slavery, by setting free all
     their negroes and indentured servants, who were, in fact,
     little better than white slaves. This to the Virginians
     was like passing a rasp over a gangrened place; it was
     probing a wound that was incurable, or one which had not yet
     been healed. Later in the year, when the battle of Bunker's
     Hill had been fought, when our forts on Lake Champlain had
     been taken from us, and when Montgomery and Arnold were
     pressing on our possessions in Canada, Lord Dunmore carried
     his threat into execution. Having established his
     headquarters at Norfolk, he proclaimed freedom to all the
     slaves who would repair to his standard and bear arms for
     the King. The summons was readily obeyed by the most of the
     negroes who had the means of escape to him. He, at the same
     time, issued a proclamation, declaring martial law
     throughout the colony of Virginia; and he collected a number
     of armed vessels, which cut off the coasting trade, made
     many prizes, and greatly distressed an important part of
     that Province. If he could have opened a road to slaves in
     the interior of the Province, his measures would have been
     very fatal to the planters. In order to stop the alarming
     desertion of the negroes, and to arrest his Lordship in his
     career, the provincial Assembly detached against him a
     strong force of more than a thousand men, who arrived in the
     neighborhood of Norfolk in the month of December. Having
     made a circuit, they came to a village called Great Bridge,
     where the river Elizabeth was traversed by a bridge; but
     before their arrival the bridge had been made impassable,
     and some works, defended chiefly by negroes, had been thrown
     up."

Five months after he issued the proclamation, Lord Dunmore thus writes, concerning his success:

                      [No. 1]

          "Lord Dunmore to the Secretary of State.
                  {SHIP 'DUNMORE,' IN ELIZABETH RIVER, VA.,
                  {    30th March, 1776.

The dread in which the colonists held the negro was equal to that with which they regarded
the Indians. The incendiary torch, massacre, pillage, and revolt, was ever presenting a gloomy
and disastrous picture to the colonists at the South. Their dreams at night; their thoughts
by day; in the field and in the legislature hall, were how to keep the negro down. If one should
be seen in a village with a gun, a half score of white men would rush and take it from him,
while women in the street would take shelter in the nearest house. The wrongs which they continued
to practice upon him was a terror to them through their conscience, though then, as in later
years, many, and particularly the leaders, endeavored to impress others with their feigned
belief of the natural inferiority of the negro to themselves. This doctrine served them, as
the whistle did the boy in the woods; they talked in that way simply to keep their courage
up, and their conscience down.

The commander of the American army regarded the action of Lord Dunmore as a serious blow to
the national cause. To take the negroes out of the field from raising produce for the army,
and place them in front of the patriots as opposing soldiers, he saw was a danger that should
be averted.

Notwithstanding this, the Southern States still kept the negro out of the army. It was not
until affairs became alarmingly dangerous, and a few weeks before the adoption of the Declaration
of Independence, that the subject of arming the slaves came again before the people.

In May, 1777, the General Assembly of Connecticut postponed in one house and rejected in the
other the report of a committee "that the effective negro and mulatto slaves be allowed to
enlist with the Continental battallions now raising in this State."

The British were determined, it seems, to utilize all the available strength they could command,
by enlisting negroes at the North as well as at the South.

Occasionally the public would be startled by the daring and bravery of some negro in the American
army, and then the true lovers of liberty, North and South, would again urge that negroes be
admitted into the ranks of the army. When Lt.-Col. Barton planned for the capture of the British
Maj.-Gen. Prescott, who commanded the British army at Newport R. I., and whose capture was
necessary in order to effect the release of Gen. Lee, who was then in the hands of the British,
and of the same rank as that of Gen. Prescott, Col. Barton's plan was made a success through
the aid of Prince, a negro in Col. Barton's command. The daring of the exploit excited the
highest patriotic commendations of the Americans, and revived the urgent appeals that had been
made for a place in the armed ranks for all men, irrespective of color.

Congress voted Col. Barton a magnificent sword, but the real captor of Gen. Prescott, so far
as known, received nothing.

To recite here every incident and circumstance illustrating the heroism and the particular
services rendered the patriotic army by negroes, who served in regiments and companies with
white soldiers, would fill this entire volume. Yet, with the desire of doing justice to the
memory of all those negroes who aided in achieving the independence of America, I cannot forbear
introducing notices,--gathered from various sources,--of some prominent examples.

Ebenezer Hill, a slave at Stonington, Conn., who served throughout the war, and who took part
in the battles of Saratoga and Stillwater, and witnessed the surrender of Burgoyne.

Prince Whipple acted as bodyguard to General Whipple, one of Washington's aids. Prince is the
negro seen on horseback in the engraving of Washington crossing the Delaware, and again pulling
the stroke oar in the boat which Washington crossed in.

At the storming of Fort Griswold, Maj. Montgomery was lifted upon the walls of the fort by
his soldiers, and called upon the Americans to surrender. John Freeman, a negro soldier, with
his pike, pinned him dead to the earth. Among the American soldiers who were massacred by the
British soldiers, after the surrender of the fort, were two negro soldiers, Lambo Latham and
Jordan Freeman.

Quack Matrick, a negro, fought through the Revolutionary war, as a soldier, for which he was
pensioned. Also Jonathan Overtin, who was at the battle of Yorktown. The grandfather of the
historian Wm. Wells Brown, Simon Lee, was also a soldier "in the times which tried men's souls."

     "Samuel Charlton was born in the State of New Jersey, a
     slave, in the family of Mr. M., who owned, also, other
     members belonging to his family--all residing in the English
     neighborhood. During the progress of the war, he was placed
     by his master (as a substitute for himself) in the army then
     in New Jersey, as a teamster in the baggage train. He was in
     active service at the battle of Monmouth, not only
     witnessing, but taking a part in, the great struggle of that
     day. He was also in several other engagements in different
     sections of that part of the State. He was a great admirer
     of General Washington, and was, at one time, attached to his
     baggage train, and received the General's commendation for
     his courage and devotion to the cause of liberty. Mr.
     Charlton was about fifteen or seventeen years of age when
     placed in the army, for which his master rewarded him with a
     silver dollar. At the expiration of his time, he returned to
     his master, to serve again in bondage, after having toiled,
     fought and bled for liberty, in common with the regular
     soldiery. Mr. M., at his death, by will, liberated his
     slaves, and provided a pension for Charlton, to be paid
     during his lifetime.

            *       *       *       *

     "James Easton, of Bridgewater, a colored man, participated
     in the erection of the fortifications on Dorchester Heights,
     under command of Washington, which the next morning so
     greatly surprised the British soldiers then encamped in
     Boston."

     "Among the brave blacks who fought in the battles for
     American liberty was Major Jeffrey, a Tennesseean, who,
     during the campaign of Major-General Andrew Jackson in
     Mobile, filled the place of "regular" among the soldiers. In
     the charge made by General Stump against the enemy, the
     Americans were repulsed and thrown into disorder,--Major
     Stump being forced to retire, in a manner by no means
     desirable, under the circumstances. Major Jeffrey, who was
     but a common soldier, seeing the condition of his comrades,
     and comprehending the disastrous results about to befall
     them, rushed forward, mounted a horse, took command of the
     troops, and, by an heroic effort, rallied them to the
     charge,--completely routing the enemy, who left the
     Americans masters of the field. He at once received from the
     General the title of "Major," though he could not, according
     to the American policy, so commission him. To the day of his
     death, he was known by that title in Nashville, where he
     resided, and the circumstances which entitled him to it were
     constantly the subject of popular conversation.

     "Major Jeffrey was highly respected by the whites generally,
     and revered, in his own neighborhood, by all the colored
     people who knew him.

     "A few years ago receiving an indignity from a common
     ruffian, he was forced to strike him in self-defense; for
     which act, in accordance with the laws of slavery in that,
     as well as many other of the slave States, he was compelled
     to receive, on his naked person, nine and thirty lashes
     with a raw hide! This, at the age of seventy odd, after the
     distinguished services rendered his country,--probably when
     the white ruffian for whom he was tortured was unable to
     raise an arm in its defense,--was more than he could bear;
     it broke his heart, and he sank to rise no more, till
     summoned by the blast of the last trumpet to stand on the
     battle-field of the general resurrection."

Jeffrey was not an exception to this kind of treatment. Samuel Lee died on a tobacco plantation
after the war.

The re-enslaving of the negroes who fought for American Independence became so general at the
South, that the Legislature of Virginia in 1783, in compliance with her honor, passed an act
directing the emancipation of certain slaves, who had served as soldiers of the State, and
for the emancipation of the slave Aberdeen.

James Armistead during the war acted as a scout and spy for LaFayette during his campaign in
Virginia, and at one time gave information of an intended surprise to be made upon the forces
of the Marquis, thereby saving probably a rout of the army. Armistead, after the surrender
of Cornwallis at Yorktown, was returned to his master three years after the close of the war.
He was manumitted by especial act of the Virginia Legislature, whose attention was called to
the worthiness of the service rendered by Armistead.

The opposition to the employment of negroes as soldiers, by the persistency of its advocates
and the bravery of those who were then serving in white regiments, was finally overcome, so
that their enlistment became general and regulated by law. Companies, battalions and regiments
of negro troops soon entered the field and the struggle for independence and liberty, giving
to the cause the reality of freedmen's fight. For three years the army had been fighting under
the smart of defeats, with an occasional signal victory, but now the tide was about to be turned
against the English. The colonists had witnessed the heroism of the negro in Virginia at Great
Bridge, and at Norfolk; in Massachusetts at Boston and Bunker Hill, fighting, in the former,
for freedom under the British flag, in the latter for liberty, under the banner of the colonies.
The echoing shouts of the whites fell heavily upon the ears of the black people; they caught
the strain as by martial instinct, and reverberated the appeal, "Liberty and Independence."

The negro's ancestors were not slaves, so upon the altar of their hearts the fire of liberty
was re-kindled by the utterances of the white colonists. They heard Patrick Henry and Samuel
Adams, whose eloquence vehemently aroused their compatriots, and, like them, they too resolved
to be free. They held no regular organized meetings; at the North they assembled with their
white fellow-citizens; at the South each balmy gale that swept along the banks of the rivers
were laden with the negro's ejaculations for freedom, and each breast was resolute and determined.
The advocates and friends of the measure for arming all men for freedom, were on the alert,
and now the condition of the army was such as to enable them to press the necessity of the
measure upon the attention of the American people. Washington needed reinforcements; nay, more,
the perilous situation of the army as it lay in camp at Valley Forge, at the conclusion of
the campaign of 1777, was indeed distressing. The encampment consisted of huts, and there was
danger of a famine. The soldiers were nearly destitute of comfortable clothing. "Many," says
the historian, "for want of shoes, walked barefoot on the frozen ground; few, if any, had blankets
for the night. Great numbers sickened; near three thousand at a time were incapable of bearing
arms."

Within fifteen miles of them lay the city of Philadelphia and the British army. These gloomy
circumstances overshadowed the recent victory at Bennington, and the surrender of Burgoyne.
Under these circumstances, the difficulty of recruiting the patriot army may be easily imagined.
A general enlistment bill had failed to pass the legislature in the spring, because, perhaps,
the spirit of the patriots were up at the time; but now they were down, and the advocates of
arming negroes sought the opportunity of carrying their plan. It was not attempted in Connecticut,
but in the General Assembly of Rhode Island an act was passed for the purpose.

To speak of the gallantry of the negro soldiers recalls the recollection of some of their daring
deeds at Red Bank, where four hundred men met and repulsed, after a terrible, sanguinary struggle,
fifteen hundred Hessian troops led by Count Donop.

     "The glory of the defence of Red Bank, which has been
     pronounced one of the most heroic actions of the war,
     belongs in reality to black men; yet who now hears them
     spoken of in connection with it? Among the traits which
     distinguished the black regiment was devotion to their
     officers. In the attack made upon the American lines, near
     Croton river, on the 13th of May, 1781, Col. Greene, the
     commander of the regiment, was cut down and mortally
     wounded; but the sabres of the enemy only reached him
     through the bodies of his faithful blacks, who gathered
     around him to protect him, and every one of whom was
     killed."

Now the negro began to take the field; not scattered here and there throughout the army, filling
up the shattered ranks of white regiments, but in organizations composed entirely of men of
their own race, officered, however, by white officers, men of high social and military character
and standing. The success of the measure in Rhode Island, emboldened the effort in Massachusetts,
where the advocates of separate negro organizations had been laboring zealously for its accomplishment.
Officers of the army in the field, expressed their desire to be placed in command of negro
troops, in separate and distinct organizations. Every effort, however, up to this time to induce
Massachusetts to consent to the proposition had failed. Rhode Island alone sent her negro regiments
to the field, whose gallantry during the war more than met the most sanguine expectations of
their warmest friends, and fully merited the trust and confidence of the State and country.
As the struggle proceeded, re-enforcements were more frequently in demand; but recruits were
scarce, and the question of arming negroes became again prominent in the colonies and the army.

In April, 1778, Thomas Kench, then serving in an artillery regiment, addressed letters to the
Massachusetts Legislature urging the enlistment of negroes.

The letter from which this extract was made was duly referred to a joint committee "to consider
the same and report." They duly reported the draft of a law, differing little from the Rhode
Island Resolution. A separate organization of negro companies, by Kench, does not appear to
have been deemed advisable at that time. The usage was continued of "taking," in the words
of Kench, "negroes in our service, intermixed with the white men."

The negroes of Boston and their abolition friends, rather insisted upon the intermingling of
the races in the army, believing that this course had a greater tendency to destroy slavery,
and the inequality of rights among the blacks and whites; though it deprived the negroes, as
we now see, of receiving due credit for their valor, save in a few individual cases. It was
not in Massachusetts alone, but in many other States that the same idea prevailed; and now
the facts connected with the services of the negroes are to be gathered only in fragments,
from the histories of villages and towns, or among the archives of the State, in a disconnected
and unsatisfactory form.

The legislature of New York, two months after the murder of Col. Greene and his faithful negro
troops at Point's Bridge, in that State, by the British, passed an act (March, 1781) looking
to the raising of two regiments.

In 1821, in the convention which revised the constitution of New York, Mr. Clark, speaking
in favor of allowing negroes to vote, said in the course of his remarks:

     "My honorable colleague has told us, that, as the colored
     people are not required to contribute to the protection or
     defence of the State, they are not entitled to an equal
     participation in the privileges of its citizens. But, Sir,
     whose fault is this? Have they ever refused to do military
     duty when called upon? It is haughtily asked, Who will stand
     in the ranks shoulder to shoulder with a negro? I answer, No
     one, in time of peace; no one, when your musters and
     trainings are looked upon as mere pastimes; no one, when
     your militia will shoulder their muskets and march to their
     trainings with as much unconcern as they would go to a
     sumptuous entertainment or a splendid ball. But, Sir, when
     the hour of danger approaches, your white 'militia' are just
     as willing that the man of color should be set up as a mark
     to be shot at by the enemy, as to be set up themselves. In
     the War of the Revolution, these people helped to fight your
     battles by land and by sea. Some of your States were glad to
     turn out corps of colored men, and to stand 'shoulder to
     shoulder' with them.

     "In your late war, they contributed largely towards some of
     your most splendid victories. On Lakes Erie and Champlain,
     where your fleets triumphed over a foe superior in numbers
     and engines of death, they were manned, in a large
     proportion, with men of color. And, in this very house, in
     the fall of 1814, a bill passed, receiving the approbation
     of all the branches of your government, authorizing the
     Governor to accept the services of a corps of two thousand
     free people of color. Sir, these were times which tried
     men's souls. In these times it was no sporting matter to
     bear arms. These were times, when a man who shouldered his
     musket did not know but he bared his bosom to receive a
     death wound from the enemy ere he laid it aside; and in
     these times, these people were found as ready and as willing
     to volunteer in your service as any other. They were not
     compelled to go; they were not drafted. No, your pride had
     placed them beyond your compulsory power. But there was no
     necessity for its exercise; they were volunteers; yes, Sir,
     volunteers to defend that very country from the inroads and
     ravages of a ruthless and vindictive foe, which had treated
     them with insult, degradation and slavery.

     "Volunteers are the best of soldiers. Give me the men,
     whatever be their complexion, that willingly volunteer, and
     not those who are compelled to turn out. Such men do not
     fight from necessity, nor from mercenary motives, but from
     principle."

Hon. Mr. Martindale, who represented a District of the State of New York, in Congress in 1828,
thus speaks of the negro soldiers:

     "Slaves, or negroes who have been slaves, were enlisted as
     soldiers in the War of the Revolution; and I myself saw a
     battalion of them, as fine martial-looking men as I ever
     saw, attached to the Northern army."

Up to this time the East had been the theatre of the war, with now and then a battle in some
one of the Middle Colonies, but the British discovering that the people of the South acted
indifferently in maintaining and recruiting the army, transferred their operations to that
section. Maryland then stood as a middle State or Colony. Her statesmen, seeing the threatened
danger of the invasion of Pennsylvania, endeavored to prepare to meet it, and taking council
from her sister States at the East, accepted the negro as a soldier.

It does not appear that the negroes were formed into separate organizations in this State,
but filled the depleted ranks of the Continental regiments, where their energy and daring was
not less than that displayed by their white comrades, with whom they fought, shoulder to shoulder.
The advocates of arming the negroes were not confined to the Eastern and Middle sections; some
of the best men of the South favored and advocated the enlistment of free negroes, and made
many, though for a long time unsuccessful, efforts to obtain legal sanction for such enlistment
throughout the South. But their advice was not listened to, even in the face of certain invasion,
and then the whites would not, and could not be induced to rally to the defence of their own
particular section and homes.

For fear that I may be accused of too highly coloring the picture of the Southern laxity of
fervor and patriotism, I quote from the valuable essay which accompanies the history of the
American Loyalists:

     "The whole number of regulars enlisted for the Continental
     service, from the beginning to the close of the struggle,
     was 231,959. Of these, I have once remarked, 67,907 were
     from Massachusetts; and I may now add, that every State
     south of Pennsylvania provided but 59,493, or 8,414 less
     than this single State."

The men of Massachusetts did not more firmly adhere to their policy of mixed troops as against
separate organizations, based upon color, than did the men of the South to their peculiar institution,
and against the arming of negroes, free or slave. The war having fairly set in upon Southern
soil, and so urgent the necessity for recruiting the army, that Congress again took up the
subject of enrolling negroes as soldiers. It was decided that the general Government had no
control over the States in the matter, but a series of resolutions were adopted recommending
to the States of Georgia and South Carolina, the arming of three thousand able-bodied negroes.

Now began an earnest battle for the carrying out of the policy, as recommended by Congress.
Its friends were among the bravest and truest to the cause of freedom in the States. Hon. Henry
Laurens lead in the effort.

Washington knew the temper of the Southerners. He was well aware that slaves could not be entrusted
with arms within sight of the enemy's camp, and within hearing of his proclamation of freedom
to all who would join his Majesty's standard, unless equal inducements were offered them by
the colonists, and to this he knew the Southern colonist would not consent.

Washington certainly had no doubts as to the value of the negro as a soldier, but for the reasons
stated, did not give the weight of his influence, at this important juncture, to the policy
of their enlistment, while so many of the leading men of the colonies were favorable to the action.

Among those who advocated the raising of negro troops was Col. John Laurens, a native of South
Carolina and a brave patriot, who had acted as aide-de-camp to the commander-in-chief, and
had seen service in Rhode Island and elsewhere. He was the son of Hon. Henry Laurens, at one
time President of Congress, and was noted for his high qualities of character. A commission
of lieutenant-colonel was granted to him by Congress, and he proceeded to South Carolina to
use his personal influence to induce the Legislature to authorize the enlistment of negroes.
His services in Rhode Island had given him an opportunity to witness the conduct and worth
of the negro soldier.

The patriotic zeal of Col. Laurens for the accomplishment of his design was earnest and conscientious.

The condition of the colonies and the Continental army at that time was critical in the extreme.
The campaign of 1779 had closed gloomily for the Americans. The British had not only been active
in raiding in Virginia and destroying property, but in organizing negro troops. Lord Dunmore,
as we have seen, as early as November, 1775, had issued a proclamation, inviting the negroes
to join the Royal forces, to which a great many slaves responded, and were organized into companies.

It is highly probable that many negroes made their way to the British camp.

Clinton left New York in the latter part of 1779, for the reduction of Charleston, which he
completed in May, three months after the date of Col. Laurens' letter. Gen. Lincoln, who commanded
the American forces at Charleston, joined in the effort to arm the negroes.

The project of raising negro troops gained some friends in all sections, and Statesmen, both
South and North, as they talked about it, became more free to express their approbation of
the measure. They had witnessed the militia from Virginia and North Carolina, at the battle
of Camden, throw down their arms before the enemy;[4] they had seen black and white troops
under command of Gen. Provost occupy Savannah; the surrender of Charlestown had become necessary;
and these evils were all brought about by the apathy of the white inhabitants.

No circumstances under which the South was placed, could induce either their legislators or
the people to adopt the recommendations of Congress or the advice of the patriots and statesmen
of their section. The opposition to the arming of the negroes was much stronger than the love
for independence. The British, however, adopted the plan, and left no stone unturned to augment
the strength of their army. Thousands of negroes flocked to the Royal standard at every opportunity,
just as in the war of the Rebellion in 1861-'65, they sought freedom under the national banner.

It has ever been the rule among American historians to omit giving credit to those negroes
who sought to gain their freedom by joining the British. They have generally also failed to
acknowledge the valor of those who swelled the ranks of the Continental army. Enough, however,
can be gathered, mostly from private correspondence, to show that the hope of success for the
Americans rested either in the docility of the negroes at the South, or in their loyalty to
the cause of Independence. At all events, upon the action of the blacks more than upon the
bravery and valor of the American troops, depended the future status of the Colonies; hence
the solicitude of officers and of the leading citizens; and it was not the love of universal
freedom, which prompted their efforts for arming negroes; not at all, but their keen appreciation
of the value of a neutral power, which could be utilized for the benefit of America's Independence.
Nor do I attribute other than the same motive to the British, who did arm and did free a great
many of the negroes, who joined their service, especially at the South, where they must have
organized quite a large force,--not less than 5,000.

A few days after writing this letter, Gen. Greene met the British at Guilford Court House,
and again witnessed the cowardice of the Southern militia,[5] whose conduct gave victory to
the British, under Cornwallis.

The persistency of Col. Laurens in his effort to organize negro troops, was still noteworthy.
Having returned from France, whither he went on important business, connected with the welfare
of the States, he resumed his "favorite pursuit."

Here ended the project of arming negroes in South Carolina, and before an earnest effort could
be made in Georgia, the brave man laid his life upon the altar of American liberty.

But to show the state of public opinion at the South, as understood by the Commander-in-Chief
of the American army, we have but to read Washington's reply to Col. Laurens' last letter,
in which he speaks of "making a last effort" in Georgia.

This letter settles forever any boast of the Southerners, that to them is due the credit of
gaining the independence of the United States. It is true Cornwallis' surrender at Yorktown,
Va., was the last of the series of battles fought for independence.[6] But we must remember
that the French were at Yorktown. It cannot be doubted but that from Charleston to Yorktown
the Americans met negro troops more than once fighting under the Royal flag; while at the east,
in every important engagement between the two enemies,--British and American,--the negro was
found fighting with the Americans. This division of the negroes can easily be accounted for,
since at the North and East the object of the war was acknowledged to be set forth in the Declaration
of Independence; at the South only so much of the Declaration was accepted as demanded Independence
from Great Britain. Therefore, though in separate and opposing armies, the object of the negro
was the same--liberty. It is to be regretted that the historians of the Revolutionary period
did not more particularly chronicle the part taken by negroes at the South, though enough is
known to put their employment beyond doubt.

Johnson, the author of the life of Gen. Greene, speaking of Greene's recommendation to the
Legislature of South Carolina to enroll negroes, says:

     "There is a sovereign, who, at this time, draws his soldiery
     from the same class of people; and finds a facility in
     forming and disciplining an army, which no other power
     enjoys. Nor does his immense military force, formed from
     that class of his subjects, excite the least apprehension;
     for the soldier's will is subdued to that of his officer,
     and his improved condition takes away the habit of
     identifying himself with the class from which he has been
     separated. Military men know what mere machines men become
     under discipline, and believe that any men, who may be
     obedient, may be made soldiers; and that increasing their
     numbers increases the means of their own subjection and
     government."

Cornwallis doubtless had gathered within his lines a large number of negroes, to whose energy
and labor, the erection of his breastworks were mainly due. Lafayette feeling satisfied that
the position of his army before Yorktown would confine the British, and make the escape of
Cornwallis impossible without battle, wrote to Gen. Washington in September:

     "I hope you will find we have taken the best precautions to
     lessen his Lordship's escape. I hardly believe he will make
     the attempt. If he does, he must give up ships, artillery,
     baggage, part of his horses, and all the negroes."

All this time in some of the Northern States an opposition as strong as at the South had existed
against organizing negro troops, and in some instances even against employing them as soldiers.
The effort for separate organizations had been going on, but with only the little success that
has been already noticed.

Though the Legislature of Connecticut had taken up the subject of arming negroes generally,
as early as 1777, and a bill, as we have seen, was presented to that Legislature, for their
enrollment, the advocates of the measure, in every attempt to pass it, had been beaten. Nevertheless,
as appears by the record given above, Col. Humphrey took charge and organized a company, with
which he served until the close of the war. But this company of fifty odd men were not all
that did service in the army from Connecticut, for in many of her white regiments, negroes,
bond and free, stood in the ranks with the whites. And, notwithstanding the unsuccessful attempts
of Col. Laurens and the advocates of negro soldiery at the South, the negro was an attache
of the Southern army, and rendered efficient aid during the struggle, in building breastworks,
driving teams and piloting the army through dense woods, swamps, and across rivers. Not a few
were spies and drummers. To select or point out a particular battle or siege, in which they
rendered active service to the British, would not be a difficult task, though the information
at hand is too limited for a detailed account of the part which they bore in these struggles.
The true patriots of the Revolution were not slow in according to their black compatriots that
meed of praise which was their due. In almost every locality, either North or South, after
the war, there lived one or two privileged negroes, who, on great occasions,--days of muster,
4th of July, Washington's birthday, and the like,--were treated with more than ordinary courtesy
by the other people. That a great and dastardly wrong was committed upon many, in like manner
in which Simon Lee[7] was treated, is true. Many negroes at the South, who fought for American
independence were re-enslaved, and this is so far beyond a doubt that no one denies it.

     "III. And whereas it has been represented to this General
     Assembly, that Aberdeen, a negro man slave, hath labored a
     number of years in the public service at the lead mines, and
     for his meritorious services is entitled to freedom;

     "Be it therefore enacted, That the said slave Aberdeen,
     shall be, and he is hereby, emancipated and declared free in
     as full and ample a manner as if he had been born free."

In 1786 an act was passed to emancipate a negro slave who had acted as a spy for Lafayette.
This practice was not perhaps wholly confined to the South. Although Massachusetts abolished
slavery in 1783, her territory was, it seems, still subject to slave hunts, and her negro soldiers
to the insult of an attempt to re-enslave them. But Gen. Washington, though himself a slave-holder,
regarded the rights of those who fought for liberty and national independence, with too much
sacredness and the honor of the country with too much esteem, to permit them to be set aside,
merely to accommodate those who had rendered the nation's cause no help or assistance.

       "P. S.--All concerned should be notified to attend.

     "Brig.-Gen. Putnam."

Not only did some of the negro soldiers who fought in the American Army receive unjust treatment
at the close of the war, but those who served under the Royal standard, also shared a fate
quite different from what they supposed it would be when the proclamations of Lord Dunmore,
Clinton and Cornwallis, were inviting them to cast their lot with the British.

The high character of Thomas Jefferson induces me to reproduce his letter to Dr. Gordon, or
rather that portion of it which refers to the treatment of the negroes who went with the British
army.

The heroism of the negro soldier has ever been eulogized by the true statesmen of our country,
whenever the question of the American patriots was the theme. And I find no better eulogy to
pronounce upon them than that Hon. Charles Pinckney, of South Carolina, delivered in the United
States House of Representatives in 1820, and that of Hon. Wm. Eustis, of Massachusetts, during
the same debate. Mr. Pinckney said:

     "It is a remarkable fact, that notwithstanding, in the
     course of the Revolution, the Southern States were
     continually overrun by the British, and that every negro in
     them had an opportunity of leaving their owners, few did;
     proving thereby not only a most remarkable attachment to
     their owners, but the mildness of the treatment, from whence
     their affection sprang. They then were, as they still are,
     as valuable a part of our population to the union as any
     other equal number of inhabitants. They were in numerous
     instances the pioneers, and in all the laborers, of your
     armies. To their hands were owing the erection of the
     greatest part of the fortifications raised for the
     protection of our country; some of which, particularly Fort
     Moultrie, gave, at the early period of the inexperience and
     untried valor of our citizens, immortality to American arms;
     and, in the Northern States, numerous bodies of them were
     enrolled into, and fought, by the side of the whites, the
     battles of the Revolution."--Annals of Congress.

And said Mr. Eustis:

     "At the commencement of the Revolutionary war, there were
     found in the Middle and Northern States, many blacks, and
     other people of color, capable of bearing arms; a part of
     them free, the greater part slaves. The freemen entered our
     ranks with the whites. The time of those who were slaves was
     purchased by the States; and they were induced to enter the
     service in consequence of a law by which, on condition of
     their serving in the ranks during the war, they were made
     freemen.

     "The war over, and peace restored, these men returned to
     their respective States; and who could have said to them, on
     their return to civil life, after having shed their blood in
     common with the whites in the defence of the liberties of
     their country, 'You are not to participate in the liberty
     for which you have been fighting?' Certainly no white man in
     Massachusetts."

Such is the historic story of the negro in the American Revolution, and it is a sad one as
regards any benefit to his own condition by his connection with either side. But it is one
of the most memorable of all history on exhibition of the fidelity of a race to the cause of
the freedom of all men.

[2] Mr. Sparks appends to this letter the following note: "At a meeting of the general officers,
previously to the arrival of the committee from Congress in camp, it was unanimously resolved,
that it was not expedient to enlist slaves in the new army; and by a large majority, negroes
of every description were excluded from enlistment. When the subject was referred to the Committee
in conference, the resolve was not adhered to, and probably for the reason here mentioned by
Washington. Many black soldiers were in the service during all stages of the war."--Spark's
Washington, Vol. III. pp. 218-219.

[3] Dunmore after destroying Norfolk, sailed with his fleet of men-of-war and more than fifty
transports, on board of which were many armed negroes and Royal troops, to the mouth of the
Piankatank river, and took possession of Gwynn's Island, where he landed his troops and entrenched.
Here he was attacked by Gen. Lewis' men from the opposite shore. One of Dunmore's ships was
badly damaged by cannon balls, and he drew off and sailed up the Potomoc river, and occupied
St. Georgia's Island, after having burned a mansion at the mouth of Aqua Creek. He was here
attacked by a militia force and retired. Misfortune followed him; disease, shipwreck and want
of provisions. He soon made sail, and with his negroes reached England, where he remained.

[4] At the first onset, a large body of the Virginia militia, under a charge of the British
infantry with fixed bayonets, threw down their arms and fled. A considerable part of the North
Carolina militia followed their unworthy example. But the Continentals evinced the most unyielding
firmness, and pressed forward with unusual ardor. Never did men acquit themselves more honorably.
They submitted only when forsaken by their brethren in arms, and when overpowered by numbers.

[5] "The British loss, in this battle, exceeded five hundred in killed and wounded, among whom
were several of the most distinguished officers. The American loss was about four hundred,
in killed and wounded, of which more than three-fourths fell upon the Continentals. Though
the numerical force of Gen. Greene nearly doubled that of Cornwallis, yet, when we consider
the difference between these forces; the shameful conduct of the North Carolina militia, who
fled at the first fire; the desertion of the second Maryland regiment, and that a body of reserve
was not brought into action, it will appear that our numbers, actually engaged, but little
exceeded that of the enemy."--Grimshaw's U. S. History.

[6] The Burlington Gazette, in an issue of some time ago, gives the following account of an
aged negro Revolutionary patriot: "The attention of many of our citizens has doubtless been
arrested by the appearance of an old colored man, who might have been seen, sitting in front
of his residence, in east Union street, respectfully raising his hat to those who might be
passing by. His attenuated frame, his silvered head, his feeble movements, combine to prove
that he is very aged: and yet, comparatively few are aware that he is among the survivors of
the gallant army who fought for the liberties of our country.

"On Monday last, we stopped to speak to him, and asked how old he was. He asked the day of
the month, and upon being told that it was the 24th of May, replied, with trembling lips, 'I
am very old--I am a hundred years old to-day.'

"His name is Oliver Cromwell, and he says that he was born at the Black Horse, (now Columbus),
in this county, in the family of John Hutchins. He enlisted in a company commanded by Capt.
Lowry, attached to the Second New Jersey Regiment, under the command of Col. Israel Shreve.
He was at the battles of Trenton, Brandywine, Princetown, Monmouth, and Yorktown, at which
latter place, he told us, he saw the last man killed. Although his faculties are failing, yet
he relates many interesting reminiscences of the Revolution. He was with the army at the retreat
of the Delaware, on the memorable crossing of the 25th of December, 1776, and relates the story
of the battle on the succeeding day, with enthusiasm. He gives the details of the march from
Trenton to Princetown, and told us, with much humor, that they 'knocked the British around
lively,' at the latter place. He was also at the battle of Springfield, and says that he saw
the house burning in which Mrs. Caldwell was shot, at Connecticut Farms."

"I further learn, (says the author of the 'Colored Patriots of the Revolution'), that Cromwell
was brought up a farmer, having served his time with Thomas Hutchins, Esq., his maternal uncle.
He was, for six years and nine months under the immediate command of Washington, whom he loved
affectionately."

"His discharge," says Dr. M'Cune Smith, "at the close of the war, was in Washington's own handwriting,
of which he was very proud, often speaking of it. He received annually, ninety-six dollars
pension. He lived a long and honorable life. Had he been of a little lighter complexion, (he
was just half white), every newspaper in the land would have been eloquent in praise of his
many virtues."

[7] Simon Lee, the grandfather of William Wells Brown, on his mother's side, was a slave in
Virginia, and served in the war of the Revolution. Although honorably discharged, with the
other Virginia troops, at the close of the war, he was sent back to his master, where he spent
the remainder of his life toiling on a tobacco plantation.--Patriotism of Colored Americans.

CHAPTER II.

THE WAR OF 1812.

While there is no intention of entering into an examination of the causes of the war between
the United States and Great Britain in 1812, yet in order to carry out the design of the author
to show that in this war,--like all others in which the government of the United States has
been engaged,--the negro, as a soldier, took part, it is deemed necessary to cite at least
one of the incidents, perhaps the incident, which most fired the national heart of America,
and hastened the beginning of hostilities.

The war between England and France gave to the American merchant marine interest an impetus
that increased the number of vessels three-fold in a few years; it also gave command of the
carrying trade of the West Indies, from which Napoleon's frigates debarred the English merchantmen.
In consequence England sought and used every opportunity to cripple American commerce and shipping.
One plan was to deprive American ships of the service of English seamen. Her war vessels claimed
and exercised the right of searching for English seamen on board American vessels. During the
year 1807, the English Admiral Berkeley, in command of the North American Station, issued instructions
to commanders of vessels in his fleet to look out for the American frigate Chesapeake, and
if they fell in with her at sea, to board her and search for deserters, as all English seamen
in the American service were regarded by England. With the instructions, were the descriptions
of four sailors, three negroes and one white man, who were missing.

The persons who deserted from the Melampus, then lying in Hampton Roads, were William Ware,
Daniel Martin, John Strachan, John Little and Ambrose Watts. Within a month from their escape
from the Melampus, the first three of these deserters offered themselves for enlistment, and
were received on board the Chesapeake, then at Norfolk, Va., preparing for sea. The British
consul at Norfolk, being apprized of the circumstance, wrote a letter to the American naval
officer, requesting the men to be returned. With this request, the officer refused to comply,
and the British lost no time in endeavoring to procure an order from the American government
for their surrender. On receipt of the application, the Secretary of the Navy ordered an examination
into the characters and claims of the men in question. The examination resulted in proof that
the three negroes, Ware, Martin and Strachan were natives of America. The two former had "protections,"
or notarial certificates of their citizenship;[8] Strachan had no "protection," but asserted
that he lost it previous to his escape. Such being the circumstances, the government refused
to give the men up, insisting that they were American citizens, and though, they had served
in the British navy, they were pressed into the service and had a right to desert it.

The Chesapeake was one of the finest of the frigates in the American Navy, and after receiving
an outfit requiring six months to complete at the Gosport Navy Yard, at Norfolk, Va., started
for the Mediterranean. The English frigate Leopard, which lay in the harbor at Norfolk when
the Chesapeake sailed, followed her out to sea, hailed her and sent a letter to her commander,
Commodore James Barron, demanding the surrender of the deserters. Barron sent a note refusing
to comply with the demand, whereupon the Leopard fired several broadsides into the Chesapeake.
Barron struck his colors without firing a shot, and permitted the officers of the Leopard to
board his vessel and search her. The British captain refused to accept the surrender of the
Chesapeake, but took from her crew the three men who had been demanded as deserters; also a
fourth, John Wilson, a white man, claimed as a runaway from a merchant ship.

The white sailor, it was admitted by the American government, was a British subject, and his
release was not demanded; he was executed for deserting the British Navy. Of the negroes, two
only were returned by the British government, the other one having died in England. Says an
American historian:

     "An outrage like this, inflicted not by accident or the
     brutality of a separate commander, naturally excited the
     whole nation to the utmost.

     "President Jefferson very soon interdicted American harbors
     and waters to all vessels of the English Navy, and forbade
     intercourse with them. He sent a vessel of war with a
     special minister to demand satisfaction. The English Admiral
     hanged the deserter, and dismissed the three black men with
     a reprimand, blaming them for disturbing the peace of two
     nations. That the outrage did not end in immediate war, was
     due partly to the fact that the Americans had no Navy to
     fight with."

Nearly four years elapsed before the final settlement of the Chesapeake affair, and then the
English government insisted upon its right to, and issued orders for the search for British
sailors to be continued; thus a cause for quarrel remained.

The principal grounds of war, set forth in a message of the President to Congress, June 1st,
1812, and further explained by the Committee on Foreign Relations, in their report on the subject
of the message, were summarily:

     "The impressment of American seamen by the British; the
     blockade of her enemy's ports, supported by no adequate
     force, in consequence of which the American commerce had
     been plundered in every sea, and the great staples of the
     country cut off from their legitimate markets; and the
     British orders in council."

On these grounds, the President urged the declaration of war. In unison with the recommendation
of the President, the Committee on Foreign Relations concluded their reports as follows:

     "Your committee, believing that the freeborn sons of America
     are worthy to enjoy the liberty which their fathers
     purchased at the price of much blood and treasure, and
     seeing by the measures adopted by Great Britain, a course
     commenced and persisted in, which might lead to a loss of
     national character and independence, feel no hesitation in
     advising resistance by force, in which the Americans of the
     present day will prove to the enemy and the world, that we
     have not only inherited that liberty which our fathers gave
     us, but also the will and power to maintain it. Relying on
     the patriotism of the nation, and confidently trusting that
     the Lord of Hosts will go with us to battle in a righteous
     cause, and crown our efforts with success, your committee
     recommend an immediate appeal to arms."

War was declared by Congress on the 17th of June, and proclaimed by the President on the second
day following.

The struggle was principally carried on upon the water, between the armed vessels of the two
nations, consequently no great armies were called into active service upon the field. This
was indeed fortunate for America, whose military establishments at the time were very defective.
Congress called for twenty thousand men, but a very few enlisted. The President was authorized
to raise fifty thousand volunteers and to call out one hundred thousand militia for the defence
of the seacoast and frontiers; but officers could not be found to nominally command the few
thousand that responded to the call; which state of affairs was no doubt largely due to the
opposition to the war, which existed in the New England States.

Since the peace of 1783, a class of marine merchants at the North had vied with each other
in the African slave trade, in supplying the Southern planters. Consequently the increase in
negro population was great; in 1800 it was 1,001,463, and in 1810, two years before war was
declared, 1,377,810, an increase of 376,347. Of the 1,377,810, there were 1,181,362 slaves,
and 186,448 free. Of course their increase was not due solely to the importation by the slave
trade, but the aggregate increase was large, compared with the increase of the white population
for the same period.

The free negroes were mainly residents of the Northern States, where they enjoyed a nominal
freedom. They entered the service with alacrity; excluded from the army, they enlisted in the
navy, swelling the number of those who, upon the rivers, lakes, bays and oceans, manned the
guns of the war vessels, in defense of Free Trade, Sailor's Rights and Independence on the
seas as well as on the land. It is quite impossible to ascertain the exact number of negroes
who stood beside the guns that won for America just recognition from the maritime powers of
the world. Like the negro soldiers in the Revolutionary war who served with the whites, so
the negro sailors in the war of 1812 served in the American Navy; in the mess, at the gun,
on the yard-arm and in the gangway, together with others of various nationalities, they achieved
many victories for the navy of our common country. The best evidence I can give in substantiation
of what has been written, is the following letter from Surgeon Parsons to George Livermore,
Esq., of the Massachusetts Historical Society:

                          "PROVIDENCE, October 18, 1862.

     "MY DEAR SIR:--In reply to your inquiries about the
     employing of blacks in our navy in the war of 1812, and
     particularly in the battle of Lake Erie, I refer you to
     documents in Mackenzie's 'Life of Commodore Perry,' vol. i.
     pp. 166 and 187.

     "In 1814, our fleet sailed to the Upper Lakes to co-operate
     with Colonel Croghan at Mackinac. About one in ten or twelve
     of the crews were black.

     "In 1816, I was surgeon of the 'Java,' under Commodore
     Perry. The white and colored seamen messed together. About
     one in six or eight were colored.

     "In 1819, I was surgeon of the 'Guerriere,' under Commodore
     Macdonough; and the proportion of blacks was about the same
     in her crew. There seemed to be an entire absence of
     prejudice against the blacks as messmates among the crew.
     What I have said applies to the crews of the other ships
     that sailed in squadrons.

                          "Yours very respectfully,

                              "USHER PARSONS."

Dr. Parsons had reference to the following correspondence between Captain Perry and Commodore
Chauncey, which took place in 1813, before the former's victory on Lake Erie.

The battle of Lake Erie is the most memorable naval battle fought with the British; of it Rossiter
Johnson, in his "History of the War of 1812," in the description of the engagement, says:

     "As the question of the fighting qualities of the black man
     has since been considerably discussed, it is worth noting
     that in this bloody and brilliant battle a large number of
     Perry's men were negroes."

It was not left to Commodores Chauncey and Perry, solely, to applaud them; there was not an
American war vessel, perhaps, whose crew, in part, was not made up of negroes, as the accounts
of various sea fights prove. And they are entitled to no small share of the meed of praise
given the American seamen, who fought and won victory over the British. Not only in the Navy,
but on board the privateers,[9] the American negro did service, as the following extract will show:

     "Extract of a Letter from Nathaniel Shaler, Commander of
     the private-armed Schooner Gov. Tompkins, to his Agent in
     New York.

                     AT SEA, Jan. 1, 1813.

     "Before I could get our light sails on, and almost before I
     could turn round, I was under the guns, not of a transport,
     but of a large frigate! and not more than a quarter of a
     mile from her. He fell near me, and several times requested to be
     thrown overboard, saying he was only in the way of others.

     "When America has such tars, she has little to fear from the
     tyrants of the ocean."--Nile's Weekly Register, Saturday,
     Feb. 26, 1814.

As in the late war of the rebellion, the negroes offered their services at the outset when
volunteers were called for, and the true patriots at the North sought to have their services
accepted; but the government being in the control of the opponents of universal freedom and
the extension of the rights of citizenship to the negro, the effort to admit him into the ranks
of the army, even in separate organizations, was futile. At the same time American whites would
not enlist to any great extent, and but for the tide of immigration, which before the war had
set in from Ireland, the fighting on shore would probably not have lasted six months; certainly
the invasion of Canada would not have been attempted.

The reverses which met the American army in the first year of the war, slackened even the enlistment
that was going on and imperiled the safety of the country, and the defences of the most important
seaports and manufacturing states. Battle after battle had been lost, the invasion of Canada
abandoned, and the British had turned their attention southward. The war in Europe had been
brought to a close, and Napoleon was a captive. England was now at liberty to reinforce her
fleet and army in America, and fears were entertained that other European powers might assist
her in invading the United States. The negro soldier again loomed up, and as the British were
preparing to attack New Orleans with a superior force to that of Gen. Jackson's, he sought
to avail himself of every possible help within his reach. Accordingly he issued the following
proclamation:

GENERAL JACKSON'S PROCLAMATION TO THE NEGROES.

                  HEADQUARTERS, SEVENTH MILITARY DISTRICT,
                      MOBILE, September 21, 1814.

     To the Free Colored Inhabitants of Louisiana:

     Through a mistaken policy, you have heretofore been deprived
     of a participation in the glorious struggle for national
     rights in which our country is engaged. This no longer shall
     exist.

     As sons of freedom, you are now called upon to defend our
     most inestimable blessing. As Americans, your country looks
     with confidence to her adopted children for a valorous
     support, as a faithful return for the advantages enjoyed
     under her mild and equitable government. As fathers,
     husbands, and brothers, you are summoned to rally around the
     standard of the Eagle, to defend all which is dear in
     existence.

     Your country, although calling for your exertions, does not
     wish you to engage in her cause without amply remunerating
     you for the services rendered. Your intelligent minds are
     not to be led away by false representations. Your love of
     honor would cause you to despise the man who should attempt
     to deceive you. In the sincerity of a soldier and the
     language of truth I address you.

     To every noble-hearted, generous freeman of color
     volunteering to serve during the present contest with Great
     Britain, and no longer, there will be paid the same bounty,
     in money and lands, now received by the white soldiers of
     the United States, viz: one hundred and twenty-four dollars
     in money, and one hundred and sixty acres of land. The
     non-commissioned officers and privates will also be
     entitled to the same monthly pay, and daily rations, and
     clothes, furnished to any American soldier.

     On enrolling yourselves in companies, the Major-General
     Commanding will select officers for your government from
     your white fellow-citizens. Your non-commissioned officers
     will be appointed from among yourselves.

     Due regard will be paid to the feelings of freeman and
     soldiers. You will not, by being associated with white men
     in the same corps, be exposed to improper comparisons or
     unjust sarcasm. As a distinct, independent battalion or
     regiment, pursuing the path of glory, you will, undivided,
     receive the applause and gratitude of your countrymen.

     To assure you of the sincerity of my intentions, and my
     anxiety to engage your invaluable services to our country, I
     have communicated my wishes to the Governor of Louisiana,
     who is fully informed as to the manner of enrollment, and
     will give you every necessary information on the subject of
     this address.

     ANDREW JACKSON, Major-General Commanding.

     [Niles Register, vol. vii. p. 205.]

When the news of Gen. Jackson arming the free negroes reached the North it created no little
surprise, and greatly encouraged those, who, from the commencement of hostilities, had advocated
it. The successes of the summer were being obliterated by the victories which the British were
achieving. The national capitol was burned; Maine had virtually fallen into their hands; gloom
and disappointment prevailed throughout the country. Enlistment was at a stand-still, and as
the British were threatening with annihilation the few troops then in the field, it became
evident that the States would have to look to their own defence. New York again turned her
attention to her free negro population; a bill was prepared and introduced in the legislature
looking to the arming of her negroes, and in October, a month after Gen. Jackson issued his
appeal to the negroes of Louisiana, the Legislature passed a bill of which the following are
the most important sections:

"An Act to authorize the raising of Two Regiments of Men of Color; passed Oct. 24, 1814.

     "SECT. 1. Be it enacted by the people of the State of New
     York, represented in Senate and Assembly, That the Governor
     of the State be, and he is hereby authorized to raise, by
     voluntary enlistment, two regiments of free men of color,
     for the defence of the State for three years, unless sooner
     discharged.

     "SECT. 2. And be it further enacted, That each of the said
     regiments shall consist of one thousand and eighty
     able-bodied men; and the said regiments shall be formed into
     a brigade, or be organized in such manner, and shall be
     employed in such service, as the Governor of the State of
     New York shall deem best adapted to defend the said State.

     "SECT. 3. And be it further enacted, That all the
     commissioned officers of the said regiments and brigade
     shall be white men; and the Governor of the State of New
     York shall be, and he is hereby, authorized to commission,
     by brevet, all the officers of the said regiments and
     brigade, who shall hold their respective commissions until
     the council of appointment shall have appointed the officers
     of the said regiments and brigade, in pursuance of the
     Constitution and laws of the said State.

     "SECT. 6. And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful
     for any able-bodied slave, with the written assent of his
     master or mistress, to enlist into the said corps; and the
     master or mistress of such slave shall be entitled to the
     pay and bounty allowed him for his service: and, further,
     that the said slave, at the time of receiving his discharge,
     shall be deemed and adjudged to have been legally manumitted
     from that time, and his said master or mistress shall not
     thenceforward be liable for his maintenance.--Laws of the
     State of New York, passed at the Thirty-eighth Session of
     the Legislature, chap. xviii."

The organization of negro troops was now fairly begun; at the South enlistment was confined
to the free negroes as set forth in Gen. Jackson's Proclamation. In New York, the slaves who
should enlist with the consent of their owners were to be free at the expiration of their service,
as provided in the Sixth section of the law quoted above.

Animated by that love of liberty and country which has ever prompted them, notwithstanding
the disabilities under which they labored, to enter the ranks of their country's defenders
whenever that country has been assailed by foes without or traitors within, the negroes responded
to the call of General Jackson and to that of New York, with a zeal and energy characteristic
only of a brave and patriotic people. Inspired by the hope of impartial liberty, they rallied
to the support of that banner which Commodore Barron lowered when he failed to protect them
from British aggression, but which Commodore Decatur gallantly and successfully defended.

The forcible capture and imprisonment of Ware, Martin and Strachan, the three negroes taken
from the Chesapeake, and who were recognized by the United States authorities as citizens of
the republic, was sounded as the key-note and rallying cry of the war; the outrage served greatly
to arouse the people. The fact that the government sought to establish the liberty of the free
negroes, and the further fact that she regarded them as citizens, heightened their indignation
at the outrage committed by the British, and appealed to their keenest patriotic sensibilities.
New York was not long in raising her two battalions, and sending it forward to the army, then
at Sacket's Harbor.

On the 18th of December, 1814, following the issuing of his Proclamation, Gen. Jackson reviewed
the troops under his command at New Orleans, amounting to about six thousand, and of this force
about five hundred were negroes, organized into two battalions, commanded by Maj. Lacoste and
Maj. Savory. These battalions, at the close of the review, says Parton, in his Life of Jackson,
had read to them by Edward Livingston, a member of Jackson's staff, the following address,
from the Commander of the American forces:

     "TO THE EMBODIED MILITIA.--Fellow Citizens and Soldiers:
     The General commanding in chief would not do justice to the
     noble ardor that has animated you in the hour of danger, he
     would not do justice to his own feeling, if he suffered the
     example you have shown to pass without public notice.

            *       *       *       *

     "Fellow-citizens, of every description, remember for what
     and against whom you contend. For all that can render life
     desirable--for a country blessed with every gift of
     nature--for property, for life--for those dearer than
     either, your wives and children--and for liberty, without
     which, country, life, property, are no longer worth
     possessing; as even the embraces of wives and children
     become a reproach to the wretch who could deprive them by
     his cowardice of those invaluable blessings.

            *       *       *       *

     "TO THE MEN OF COLOR.--Soldiers! From the shores of Mobile I
     collected you to arms,--I invited you to share in the perils
     and to divide the glory of your white countrymen. I expected
     much from you; for I was not uninformed of those qualities
     which must render you so formidable to an invading foe. I
     knew that you could endure hunger and thirst, and all the
     hardships of war. I knew that you loved the land of your
     nativity, and that, like ourselves, you had to defend all
     that is most dear to man. But you surpass my hopes. I have
     found in you, united to these qualities, that noble
     enthusiasm which impels to great deeds.

     "Soldiers! The President of the United States shall be
     informed of your conduct on the present occasion; and the
     voice of the Representatives of the American nation shall
     applaud your valor, as your General now praises your ardor.
     The enemy is near. His sails cover the lakes. But the brave
     are united; and, if he finds us contending among ourselves,
     it will be for the prize of valor, and fame its noblest
     reward."--Niles's Register, vol. vii. pp. 345, 346.

Thus in line with the white troops on the soil of Louisiana, amid a large slave population,
the negro soldiers were highly praised by the commanding General. The British had already made
their appearance on the coast near the mouth of the Mississippi, and at the time of their landing,
General Jackson went out to meet them with two thousand one hundred men; the British had two
thousand four hundred. This was on the 23rd of December. The two armies met and fought to within
a few miles of the city, where the British general, Pakenham, who had arrived with reinforcements,
began on the 31st to lay siege. On Jan. 8th the short but terrible struggle took place which
not only taxed the energies and displayed the great courage of both forces, but made the engagement
one of historic interest. In the short space of twenty-five minutes seven hundred of the British
were killed; fourteen hundred were wounded and four hundred were taken prisoners. The American
army was so well protected that only four were killed and thirteen wounded. It was in this
great battle that two battalions of negroes participated, and helped to save the city, the
coveted prize, from the British. The two battalions numbered four hundred and thirty men, and
were commanded by Maj. Lacoste and Maj. Savory. Great Britain also had her negro soldiers there,--a
regiment imported from the West Indies which headed the attacking column against Jackson's
right,--they led her van in the battle; their failure, with that of the Irish regiment which
formed also a part of the advance column, lost the British the battle. The conduct of the negro
soldiers in Gen. Jackson's army on that occasion has ever been applauded by the American people.
Mr. Day, in Nell's "Colored Patriots of the American Revolution," says:

     "From an authenticated chart, belonging to a soldier friend,
     I find that, in the battle of New Orleans, Major-General
     Andrew Jackson, Commander-in-Chief, and his staff, were just
     at the right of the advancing left column of the British,
     and that very near him were stationed the colored soldiers.
     He is numbered 6, and the position of the colored soldiers
     8. The chart explanation of No. 8 reads thus:--'8. Captains
     Dominique and Bluche, two 24 pounders; Major Lacoste's
     battalion, formed of the men of color of New Orleans and,
     Major Daquin's battalion, formed of the men of color of St.
     Domingo, under Major Savary, second in command.'

     "They occupied no mean place, and did no mean service.

     "From other documents in my possession, I am able to state
     the number of the 'battalion of St. Domingo men of color' to
     have been one hundred and fifty; and of 'Major Lacoste's
     battalion of Louisiana men of color,' two hundred and
     eighty.

     "Thus were over four hundred 'men of color' in that battle.
     When it is remembered that the whole number of soldiers
     claimed by Americans to have been in that battle reached
     only 3600, it will be seen that the 'men of color' were
     present in much larger proportion than their numbers in the
     country warranted.

     "Neither was there colorphobia then. Major Planche's
     battalion of uniformed volunteer companies, and Major
     Lacoste's 'men of color,' fought together; so, also, did
     Major Daquin's 'men of color,' and the 44th, under Captain
     Baker."

Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, in his speech in Congress on the Imprisonment of Colored Seamen, September,
1850, bore this testimony to their gallant conduct:

     "I have an impression, that, not, indeed, in these piping
     times of peace, but in the time of war, when quite a boy, I
     have seen black soldiers enlisted, who did faithful and
     excellent service. But, however it may have been in the
     Northern States, I can tell the Senator what happened in the
     Southern States at this period. I believe that I shall be
     borne out in saying, that no regiments did better service,
     at New Orleans, than did the black regiments, which were
     organized under the direction of General Jackson himself,
     after a most glorious appeal to the patriotism and honor of
     the people of color of that region; and which, after they
     came out of the war, received the thanks of General Jackson,
     in a proclamation which has been thought worthy of being
     inscribed on the pages of history."

Perhaps the most glowing account of the services of these black American soldiers, appeared
in an article in the New Orleans Picayune:

     "Not the least interesting, although the most novel feature
     of the procession yesterday, was the presence of ninety of
     the colored veterans who bore a conspicuous part in the
     dangers of the day they were now for the first time called
     to assist in celebrating, and who, by their good conduct in
     presence of the enemy, deserved and received the approbation
     of their illustrious commander-in-chief. During the
     thirty-six years that have passed away since they assisted
     to repel the invaders from our shores, these faithful men
     have never before participated in the annual rejoicings for
     the victory which their valor contributed to gain. Their
     good deeds have been consecrated only in their memories, or
     lived but to claim a passing notice on the page of the
     historian. Yet, who more than they deserve the thanks of the
     country, and the gratitude of succeeding generations? Who
     rallied with more alacrity in response to the summons of
     danger? Who endured more cheerfully the hardships of the
     camp, or faced with greater courage the perils of the fight?
     If, in that hazardous hour, when our homes were menaced with
     the horrors of war, we did not disdain to call upon the
     colored population to assist in repelling the invading
     horde, we should not, when the danger is passed, refuse to
     permit them to unite with us in celebrating the glorious
     event, which they helped to make so memorable an epoch in
     our history. We were not too exalted to mingle with them in
     the affray; they were not too humble to join in our
     rejoicings.

     "Such, we think, is the universal opinion of our citizens.
     We conversed with many yesterday, and, without exception,
     they expressed approval of the invitation which had been
     extended to the colored veterans to take part in the
     ceremonies of the day, and gratification at seeing them in a
     conspicuous place in the procession.

     "The respectability of their appearance, and the modesty of
     their demeanor, made an impression on every observer, and
     elicited unqualified approbation. Indeed, though in saying
     so we do not mean disrespect to any one else, we think that
     they constituted decidedly the most interesting portion of
     the pageant, as they certainly attracted the most
     attention."

It was during the rebellion of 1861-65 that the author saw one of the colored drummer boys
of that column beating his drum at the head of a negro United States regiment marching through
the streets of New Orleans in 1862.

The New York battalion was organized and marched to the reinforcement of the American army
at Sacket's Harbor, then threatened by the enemy. This battalion was said to be a fine looking
body of men, well drilled and disciplined.

As in the dark days of the Revolution, so now in another period of national danger, the negroes
proved their courage and patriotism by service in the field. However, the lamentable treatment
of Major Jeffrey[10] is evidence that these services were not regarded as a protection against
outrage.

In the two wars in which the history of the negroes has been traced in these pages, there is
nothing that mitigates against his manhood, though his condition, either bond or free, was
lowly. But on the contrary the honor of the race has been maintained under every circumstance
in which it has been placed.

FOOTNOTES:

[8] So indiscriminate were English officers in these outrages, that it sometimes happened that
black men were seized as English seamen. At that time the public opinion of the world was such,
that few statesmen troubled themselves much about the rights of negroes. But in another generation,
when it proved convenient in the United States to argue that free negroes had never been citizens,
it was remembered that the cabinets of Jefferson and Madison, in their diplomatic discussions
with Great Britain, had been willing to argue that the impressment of a free negro was the
seizure of an American citizen.--Bryant's History of the United States.

[9] "Hammond Golar, a colored man who lived in Lynn for many years, died a few years since
at the age of 80 years. He was born a slave, was a privateer "powder boy" in the war of 1812,
and was taken to Halifax as a prisoner. The English Government did not exchange colored prisoners
because they would then be returned to slavery, and Golar remained a prisoner until the close
of the war."

[10] See page 50

PART II.

THE WAR BETWEEN THE STATES.

1861.

CHAPTER I.

PUBLIC OPINION.

It seems proper, before attempting to record the achievements of the negro soldiers in the
war of the Rebellion, that we should consider the state of public opinion regarding the negroes
at the outbreak of the war; also, in connection therewith, to note the rapid change that took
place during the early part of the struggle.

For some cause, unexplained in a general sense, the white people in the Colonies and in the
States, came to entertain against the colored races therein a prejudice, that showed itself
in a hostility to the latter's enjoying equal civil and political rights with themselves. Various
reasons are alleged for it, but the difficulty of really solving the problem lies in the fact
that the early settlers in this country came without prejudice against color. The Negro, Egyptian,
Arab, and other colored races known to them, lived in European countries, where no prejudice,
on account of color existed. How very strange then, that a feeling antagonistic to the negroes
should become a prominent feature in the character of the European emigrants to these shores
and their descendants. It has been held by some writers that the American prejudice against
the negroes was occasioned by their docility and unresenting spirit. Surely no one acquainted
with the Indian will agree that he is docile or wanting in spirit, yet occasionally there is
manifested a prejudice against him; the recruiting officers in Massachusetts refused to enlist
Indians, as well as negroes, in regiments and companies made up of white citizens, though members
of both races, could sometimes be found in white regiments. During the rebellion of 1861-5,
some Western regiments had one or two negroes and Indians in them, but there was no general
enlistment of either race in white regiments.[11] The objection was on account of color, or,
as some writers claim, by the fact of the races--negro and Indian[12]--having been enslaved.
Be the cause what it may, a prejudice, strong, unrelenting, barred the two races from enjoying
with the white race equal civil and political rights in the United States. So very strong had
that prejudice grown since the Revolution, enhanced it may be by slavery and docility, that
when the rebellion of 1861 burst forth, a feeling stronger than law, like a Chinese wall only
more impregnable, encircled the negro, and formed a barrier betwixt him and the army. Doubtless
peace--a long peace--lent its aid materially to this state of affairs. Wealth, chiefly, was
the dream of the American from 1815 to 1860, nearly half a century; a period in which the negro
was friendless, save in a few strong-minded, iron-hearted men like John Brown in Kansas, Wendell
Philips in New England, Charles Sumner in the United States Senate, Horace Greeley in New York
and a few others, who dared, in the face of strong public sentiment, to plead his cause, even
from a humane platform. In many places he could not ride in a street car that was not inscribed,
"Colored persons ride in this car." The deck of a steamboat, the box cars of the railroad,
the pit of the theatre and the gallery of the church, were the locations accorded him. The
church lent its influence to the rancor and bitterness of a prejudice as deadly as the sap
of the Upas.

To describe public opinion respecting the negro a half a century ago, is no easy task. It was
just budding into maturity when DeTocqueville visited the United States, and, as a result of
that visit, he wrote, from observation, a pointed criticism upon the manners and customs, and
the laws of the people of the United States. For fear that I might be thought over-doing--heightening--giving
too much coloring to the strength, and extent and power of the prejudice against the negro
I quote from that distinguished writer, as he clearly expressed himself under the heading,
"Present and Future condition of the three races inhabiting the United States." He said of
the negro:

     "I see that in a certain portion of the United States at the
     present day, the legal barrier which separates the two races
     is tending to fall away, but not that which exists in the
     manners of the country. Slavery recedes, but the prejudice
     to which it has given birth remains stationary. Whosoever
     has inhabited the United States, must have perceived, that
     in those parts of the United States, in which the negroes
     are no longer slaves, they have in nowise drawn nearer the
     whites; on the contrary, the prejudice of the race appears
     to be stronger in those States which have abolished slavery,
     than in those where it still exists. And, nowhere is it so
     intolerant as in the states where servitude has never been
     known. It is true, that in the North of the Union, marriages
     may be legally contracted between negroes and whites, but
     public opinion would stigmatize a man, who should content
     himself with a negress, as infamous. If oppressed, they may
     bring an action at law, but they will find none but whites
     among their judges, and although they may legally serve as
     jurors, prejudice repulses them for that office. In theatres
     gold cannot procure a seat for the servile race beside their
     former masters, in hospitals they lie apart. They are
     allowed to invoke the same divinity as the whites. The gates
     of heaven are not closed against those unhappy beings; but
     their inferiority is continued to the very confines of the
     other world. The negro is free, but he can share, neither
     the rights, nor the labor, nor the afflictions of him, whose
     equal he has been declared to be, and he cannot meet him
     upon fair terms in life or death."

DeTocqueville, as is seen, wrote with much bitterness and sarcasm, and, it is but fair to state,
makes no allusion to any exceptions to the various conditions of affairs that he mentions.
In all cases matters might not have been exactly as bad as he pictures them, but as far as
the deep-seated prejudice against the negroes, and indifference to their rights and elevation
are concerned, the facts will freely sustain the views so forcibly presented.

The negro had no remembrance of the country of his ancestry, Africa, and he abjured their religion.
In the South he had no family; women were merely the temporary sharer of his pleasures; his
master's cabins were the homes of his children during their childhood. While the Indian perished
in the struggle for the preservation of his home, his hunting grounds and his freedom, the
negro entered into slavery as soon as he was born, in fact was often purchased in the womb,
and was born to know, first, that he was a slave. If one became free, he found freedom harder
to bear than slavery; half civilized, deprived of nearly all rights, in contact with his superiors
in wealth and knowledge, exposed to the rigor of a tyrannical prejudice moulded into laws,
he contented himself to be allowed to live.

The Negro race, however, it must be remembered, is the only race that has ever come in contact
with the European race, and been able to withstand its atrocities and oppression; all others,
like the Indian, whom they could not make subservient to their use, they have destroyed. The
Negro race, like the Israelites, multiplied so rapidly in bondage, that the oppressor became
alarmed, and began discussing methods of safety to himself. The only people able to cope with
the Anglo-American or Saxon, with any show of success, must be of patient fortitude, progressive
intelligence, brave in resentment and earnest in endeavor.

In spite of his surroundings and state of public opinion the African lived, and gave birth,
largely through amalgamation with the representatives of the different races that inhabited
the United States, to a new race,--the American Negro. Professor Sampson in his mixed races says:

     "The Negro is a new race, and is not the direct descent of
     any people that have ever flourished. The glory of the negro
     race is yet to come."

As evidence of its capacity to acquire glory, the record made in the late struggle furnishes
abundant proof. At the sound of the tocsin at the North, negro waiter, cook, barber, boot-black,
groom, porter and laborer stood ready at the enlisting office; and though the recruiting officer
refused to list his name, he waited like the "patient ox" for the partition--prejudice--to
be removed. He waited two years before even the door of the partition was opened; then he did
not hesitate, but walked in, and with what effect the world knows.

The war cloud of 1860 still more aroused the bitter prejudice against the negro at both the
North and South; but he was safer in South Carolina than in New York, in Richmond than in Boston.

It is a natural consequence, when war is waged between two nations, for those on either side
to forget local feuds and unite against the common enemy, as was done in the Revolutionary
war. How different was the situation now when the threatened war was not one between nations,
but between states of the same nation. The feeling of hostility toward the negro was not put
aside and forgotten as other troublesome matters were, but the bitterness became intensified
and more marked.

The Confederate Government though organized for the perpetual enslavement of the negro, fostered
the idea that the docility of the negroes would allow them to be used for any purpose, without
their having the least idea of becoming freemen. Some idea may be formed of public opinion
at the South at the beginning of the war by what Mr. Pollard, in his history, gives as the
feeling at the South at the close of the second year of the struggle:

     "Indeed, the war had shown the system of slavery in the
     South to the world in some new and striking aspects, and had
     removed much of that cloud of prejudice, defamation,
     falsehood, romance and perverse sentimentalism through which
     our peculiar institution had been formerly known to Europe.
     It had given a better vindication of our system of slavery
     than all the books that could be written in a generation. It
     had shown that slavery was an element of strength to us;
     that it had assisted us in our struggle; that no servile
     insurrections had taken place in the South, in spite of the
     allurements of our enemy; that the slave had tilled the soil
     while his master had fought; that in large districts,
     unprotected by our troops, and with a white population,
     consisting almost exclusively of women and children, the
     slave had continued his work, quiet, faithful, and cheerful;
     and that, as a conservative element in our social system,
     the institution of slavery had withstood the shocks of war,
     and been a faithful ally of our army, although instigated to
     revolution by every art of the enemy, and prompted to the
     work of assassination and pillage by the most brutal
     examples of the Yankee soldiers."

With this view, the whole slave population was brought to the assistance of the Confederate
Government, and thereby caught the very first hope of freedom. An innate reasoning taught the
negro that slaves could not be relied upon to fight for their own enslavement. To get to the
breastworks was but to get a chance to run to the Yankees; and thousands of those whose elastic
step kept time with the martial strains of the drum and fife, as they marched on through city
and town, enroute to the front, were not elated with the hope of Southern success, but were
buoyant with the prospects of reaching the North. The confederates found it no easy task to
watch the negroes and the Yankees too; their attention could be given to but one at a time;
as a slave expressed it, "when marsa watch the Yankee, nigger go; when marsa watch the nigger,
Yankee come." But the Yankees did not always receive him kindly during the first year of the
war. The Union generals, except Fremont and Phelps and a few subordinates, accepted this as
public opinion, and as their guide in dealing with the slavery question. That opinion is better
expressed in the doggerel, sung in after months by the negro troops as they marched along through
Dixie:

    "McClellan went to Richmond with two hundred thousand braves,
    He said, 'keep back the niggers and the Union he would save.'
    Little Mac. he had his way, still the Union is in tears,
    And they call for the help of the colored volunteers."

The first two lines expressed the sentiment at the time, not only of the Army of the Potomoc,
but the army commanders everywhere, with the exceptions named. The administration winked at
the enforcement of the fugitive slave bill by the soldiers engaged in capturing and returning
the negroes coming into the Union lines.[13] Undoubtedly it was the idea of the Government
to turn the course of the war from its rightful channel, or in other words,--in the restoration
of the Union,--to eliminate the anti-slavery sentiment, which demanded the freedom of the slaves.

Hon. Elisha R. Potter, of Rhode Island,--"who may," said Mr. Greeley, "be fairly styled the
hereditary chief of the Democratic party of that State,"--made a speech on the war in the State
Senate, on the 10th of August 1861, in which he remarked:

     "I have said that the war may assume another aspect, and be
     a short and bloody one. And to such a war--an anti-slavery
     war--it seems to me we are inevitably drifting. It seems
     to me hardly in the power of human wisdom to prevent it. We
     may commence the war without meaning to interfere with
     slavery; but let us have one or two battles, and get our
     blood excited, and we shall not only not restore any more
     slaves, but shall proclaim freedom wherever we go. And it
     seems to me almost judicial blindness on the part of the
     South that they do not see that this must be the inevitable
     result, if the contest is prolonged."

This sentiment became bolder daily as the thinking Union men viewed the army turning aside
from its legitimate purposes, to catch runaway negroes, and return them. Party lines were also
giving away; men in the army began to realize the worth of the negroes as they sallied up to
the rebel breastworks that were often impregnable. They began to complain, finding the negro
with his pick and spade, a greater hinderance to their progress than the cannon balls of the
enemy; and more than one said to the confederates, when the pickets of the two armies picnicked
together in the battle's lull, as frequently they did: "We can whip you, if you keep your negroes
out of your army."

Quite a different course was pursued in the navy. Negroes were readily accepted all along the
coast on board the war vessels, it being no departure from the regular and established practice
in the service. The view with which the loyal friends of the Union began to look at the negro
and the rebellion, was aptly illustrated in an article in the Montgomery (Ala.) Advertiser
in 1861, which said:

     "THE SLAVES AS A MILITARY ELEMENT IN THE SOUTH.--The total
     white population of the eleven States now comprising the
     Confederacy is 6,000,000, and, therefore, to fill up the
     ranks of the proposed army (600,000) about ten per cent of
     the entire white population will be required. In any other
     country than our own such a draft could not be met, but the
     Southern States can furnish that number of men, and still
     not leave the material interests of the country in a
     suffering condition. Those who are incapacitated for bearing
     arms can oversee the plantations, and the negroes can go on
     undisturbed in their usual labors. In the North the case is
     different; the men who join the army of subjugation are the
     laborers, the producers, and the factory operatives. Nearly
     every man from that section, especially those from the rural
     districts, leaves some branch of industry to suffer during
     his absence. The institution of slavery in the South alone
     enables her to place in the field a force much larger in
     proportion to her white population than the North, or indeed
     any country which is dependent entirely on free labor. The
     institution is a tower of strength to the South,
     particularly at the present crisis, and our enemies will be
     likely to find that the 'moral cancer' about which their
     orators are so fond of prating, is really one of the most
     effective weapons employed against the Union by the South.
     Whatever number of men may be needed for this war, we are
     confident our people stand ready to furnish. We are all
     enlisted for the war, and there must be no holding back
     until the independence of the South is fully acknowledged."

The facts already noted became apparent to the nation very soon, and then came a change of
procedure, and the war began to be prosecuted upon quite a different policy. Gen. McClellan,
whose loyalty to the new policy was doubted, was removed from the command of the Army of the
Potomac, and slave catching ceased.

This was the initatory measure of the new policy, which progressed to its fulfillment rapidly.
And then what Mr. Cameron, Secretary of War, had recommended in December, 1861, and to which
the President objected, very soon developed, through a series of enactments, in the arming
of the negro; in which the loyal people of the whole country acquiesced, save the border states
people, who fiercely opposed it as is shown in the conduct of Mr. Wickliffe, of Kentucky; Salisbury,
of Delaware, and others in Congress.

Public opinion was now changed, Congress had prohibited the surrender of negroes to the rebels,
the President issued his Emancipation Proclamation, and more than 150,000 negroes were fighting
for the Union. The Republican party met in convention at Chicago, and nominated Mr. Lincoln
for the second term as President of the United States; the course of his first administration
was now to be approved or rejected by the people. In the resolutions adopted, the fifth one
of them related to Emancipation and the negro soldiers. It was endorsed by a very large majority
of the voters. A writer in one of the magazines, prior to the election, thus reviews the resolutions:

     "The fifth resolution commits us to the approval of two
     measures that have aroused the most various and strenuous
     opposition, the Proclamation of Emancipation and the use of
     negro troops. In reference to the first, it is to be
     remembered that it is a war measure. Whether it is of any
     legal effect beyond the actual limits of our military lines,
     is a question that need not agitate us. In due time the
     supreme tribunal of the nation will be called to determine
     that, and to its decision the country will yield with all
     respect and loyalty. But in the mean time let the
     Proclamation go wherever the army goes, let it go wherever
     the navy secures a foothold on the outer border of the rebel
     territory, and let it summon to our aid the negroes who are
     truer to the Union than their disloyal masters; and when
     they have come to us and put their lives in our keeping, let
     us protect and defend them with the whole power of the
     nation. Is there anything unconstitutional in that? Thank
     God, there is not. And he who is willing to give back to
     slavery a single person who has heard the summons and come
     within our lines to obtain his freedom, he who would give up
     a single man, woman, or child, once thus actually freed, is
     not worthy the name of American. He may call himself
     Confederate, if he will.

     "Let it be remembered, also that the Proclamation has had a
     very important bearing upon our foreign relations. It
     evoked in behalf of our country that sympathy on the part of
     the people in Europe, whose is the only sympathy we can ever
     expect in our struggle to perpetuate free institutions.
     Possessing that sympathy, moreover, we have had an element
     in our favor which has kept the rulers of Europe in
     wholesome dread of interference. The Proclamation relieved
     us from the false position before attributed to us of
     fighting simply for national power. It placed us right in
     the eyes of the world, and transferred men's sympathies from
     a confederacy fighting for independence as a means of
     establishing slavery, to a nation whose institutions mean
     constitutional liberty, and, when fairly wrought out, must
     end in universal freedom."

The change of policy and of public opinion was so strongly endorsed that
it affected the rebels, who shortly passed a Congressional measure for
arming 200,000 negroes themselves. The black men who now assist Union
     prisoners to escape, they are to be converted into our
     enemies in the vain hope of gaining the good will of their
     masters. We shall have to fight two nations instead of one. Will you give our enemies such military
     advantages as insure success, and then depend on coaxing,
     flattery, and concession to get them back into the Union?
     Abandon all the posts now garrisoned by black men; take two
     hundred thousand men from our side and put them in the
     battle-field or cornfield against us, and we would be
     compelled to abandon the war in three weeks. We have to hold
     territory in inclement and sickly places; where are the
     Democrats to do this? It was a free fight, and the field
     was open to the war Democrats to put down this rebellion by
     fighting against both master and slave, long before the
     present policy was inaugurated. There have been men base
     enough to propose to me to return to slavery the black
     warriors of Port Hudson and Olustee, and thus win the
     respect of the masters they fought. Should I do so, I should
     deserve to be dammed in time and eternity. Come what will, I
     will keep my faith with friend and foe.
     Freedom has given us two hundred thousand men raised on
     southern soil. It will give us more yet. Just so much it has
     subtracted from the enemy; and instead of alienating the
     South, there are now evidences of a fraternal feeling
     growing up between our men and the rank and file of the
     rebel soldiers.

But the change of policy did not change the opinion of the Southerners, who, notwithstanding
the use which the Confederate Government was making of the negro, still regarded him, in the
United States uniform, as a vicious brute, to be shot at sight. I prefer, in closing this chapter,
to give the Southern opinion of the negro, in the words of a distinguished native of that section.
Mr. George W. Cable, in his "Silent South," thus gives it:

     "He was brought to our shores a naked, brutish, unclean,
     captive, pagan savage, to be and remain a kind of connecting
     link between man and the beasts of burden. The great changes
     to result from his contact with a superb race of masters
     were not taken into account. As a social factor he was
     intended to be as purely zero as the brute at the other end
     of his plow line. The occasional mingling of his blood with
     that of the white man worked no change in the sentiment;
     one, two, four, eight, multiplied upon or divided in to
     zero, still gave zero for the result. Generations of
     American nativity made no difference; his children and
     children's children were born in sight of our door, yet the
     old notion held fast. He increased to vast numbers, but it
     never wavered. He accepted our dress, language, religion,
     all the fundamentals of our civilization, and became forever
     expatriated from his own land; still he remained, to us, an
     alien. Our sentiment went blind. It did not see that
     gradually, here by force and there by choice, he was
     fulfilling a host of conditions that earned at least a
     solemn moral right to that naturalization which no one at
     first had dreamed of giving him. Frequently he even bought
     back the freedom of which he had been robbed, became a
     tax-payer, and at times an educator of his children at his
     own expense; but the old idea of alienism passed laws to
     banish him, his wife, and children by thousands from the
     State, and threw him into loathsome jails as a common felon
     for returning to his native land. It will be wise to
     remember that these were the acts of an enlightened, God
     fearing people."

FOOTNOTES:

[11] I arrived in New York in August, 1862, from Valparaiso, Chili, on the steamship "Bio-Bio,"
of Boston, and in company with two Spaniards, neither of whom could speak English, enlisted
in a New York regiment. We were sent to the rendezvous on one of the islands in the harbor.
The third day after we arrived at the barracks, I was sent with one of my companions to carry
water to the cook, an aged negro, who immediately recognized me, and in such a way as to attract
the attention of the corporal, who reported the matter to the commanding officer, and before
I could give the cook the hint, he was examined by the officer of the day. At noon I was accompanied
by a guard of honor to the launch, which landed me in New York. I was a negro, that was all;
how it was accounted for on the rolls I cannot say. I was honorably discharged, however, without
receiving a certificate to that effect.

[12] The Indians referred to are many of those civilized and living as citizens in the several
States of the Union.

[13] See Appendix, "A."

[14] "Those who have declaimed loudest against the employment of negro troops have shown a
lamentable amount of ignorance, and an equally lamentable lack of common sense. They know as
little of the military history and martial qualities of the African race as they do of their
own duties as commanders.

"All distinguished generals of modern times who have had opportunity to use negro soldiers,
have uniformly applauded their subordination, bravery, and powers of endurance. Washington
solicited the military services of negroes in the revolution, and rewarded them. Jackson did
the same in the war of 1812. Under both those great captains, the negro troops fought so well
that they received unstinted praise."--Charles Sumner.

CHAPTER II.

RECRUITING AND ORGANIZING.

The recruiting officer, in the first year of the enlistment of negroes, did not have a pleasant
service to perform. At New Orleans there was no trouble in recruiting the regiments organized
under Butler's command, for, beside the free negroes, the slave population for miles around
were eager to enlist, believing that with the United States army uniform on, they would be
safe in their escape from "ole master and the rebs." And then the action of the confederate
authorities in arming the free negroes lent a stimulant and gave an ambition to the whole slave
population to be soldiers. Could arms have been obtained, a half a dozen regiments could have
been organized in sixty days just as rapidly as were three. Quite early in 1862, while the
negroes in New Orleans were being enrolled in the Confederate service, under Gov. Moore's proclamation,
in separate and distinct organizations from the whites, the Indians and negroes were enlisting
in the Union service, on the frontier, in the same company and regiments, with white officers
to command them. In the "Kansas Home Guard," comprising two regiments of Indians, were over
400 negroes, and these troops were under Custer, Blunt and Herron. They held Fort Gibson twenty
months against the assaults of the enemy. Two thousand five hundred negroes served in the Federal
army from the Indian Nations, and these, in all probability, are a part of 5,896 "not accounted
for" on the Adjutant General's rolls.

Quite a different state of things existed in South Carolina; rumors were early afloat, when
recruiting began, that the government officers were gathering up the negroes to ship away to
Cuba, Africa and the West Indies. These reports for a long time hindered the enlistment very
much. Then there was no large city for contrabands to congregate in; besides they had no way
of traveling from island to island except on government vessels. Before the Proclamation of
freedom was issued, the city of Washington, with Virginia and Maryland as additional territory
to recruit from, afforded an officer a better field to operate in than any other point except
New Orleans. The conduct of the Government in revoking Gen. Fremont's Proclamation, and of
McClellan's with the Army of the Potomac, in catching and returning escaped slaves, also had
a tendency for some time to keep back even the free negroes of Virginia and Maryland. But this
class of people never enlisted to any great numbers, either before or after 1863, and there
finally came to be a general want of spirit with them, while with the slave class there was
a ready enthusiasm to enlist. Senator Wilson, of Massachusetts, was Chairman of the Committee
of Military Affairs, and reported from that committee on the 8th of July 1862, a bill authorizing
the arming of negroes as a part of the army. The bill finally passed both houses and received
the approval of the President on the 17th of July, 1862. The battle for its success is as worthy
of record as any fought by the Phalanx. The debate was characterized by eloquence and deep
feeling on both sides. Says an account of the proceedings in Henry Wilson's "Anti-slavery Measures
of Congress":

     "Mr. Sherman (Rep.) of Ohio said, "The question arises,
     whether the people of the United States, struggling for
     national existence, should not employ these blacks for the
     maintenance of the Government. The policy heretofore pursued
     by the officers of the United States has been to repel this
     class of people from our lines, to refuse their services.
     They would have made the best spies; and yet they have been
     driven from our lines."--"I tell the President," said Mr.
     Fessenden (Rep.) of Maine, "from my place here as a senator,
     I tell the generals of our army, they must reverse their
     practices and their course of proceeding on this subject. *
     * * I advise it here from my place,--treat your enemies as
     enemies, as the worst of enemies, and avail yourselves like
     men of every power which God has placed in your hands to
     accomplish your purpose within the rules of civilized
     warfare." Mr. Rice, (war Dem.) of Minnesota, declared that
     "not many days can pass before the people of the United
     States North must decide upon one of two questions: we have
     either to acknowledge the Southern Confederacy as a free and
     independent nation, and that speedily; or we have as
     speedily to resolve to use all the means given us by the
     Almighty to prosecute this war to a successful termination.
     The necessity for action has arisen. To hesitate is worse
     than criminal. Mr. Wilson said, "The senator from Delaware,
     as he is accustomed to do, speaks boldly and decidedly
     against the proposition. He asks if American soldiers will
     fight if we organize colored men for military purposes. Did
     not American soldiers fight at Bunker Hill with negroes in
     the ranks, one of whom shot down Major Pitcairn as he
     mounted the works? Did not American soldiers fight at Red
     Bank with a black regiment from your own State, sir? (Mr.
     Anthony in the chair.) Did they not fight on the
     battle-field of Rhode Island with that black regiment, one
     of the best and bravest that ever trod the soil of this
     continent? Did not American soldiers fight at Fort Griswold
     with black men? Did they not fight with black men in almost
     every battle-field of the Revolution? Did not the men of
     Kentucky and Tennessee, standing on the lines of New
     Orleans, under the eye of Andrew Jackson, fight with colored
     battalions whom he had summoned to the field, and whom he
     thanked publicly for their gallantry in hurling back a
     British foe? It is all talk, idle talk, to say that the
     volunteers who are fighting the battles of this country are
     governed by any such narrow prejudice or bigotry. These
     prejudices are the results of the teachings of demagogues
     and politicians, who have for years undertaken to delude and
     deceive the American people, and to demean and degrade
     them."

     Mr. Grimes had expressed his views a few weeks before, and
     desired a vote separately on each of these sections. Mr.
     Davis declared that he was utterly opposed, and should ever
     be opposed, to placing arms in the hands of negroes, and
     putting them into the army. Mr. Rice wished "to know if Gen.
     Washington did not put arms into the hands of negroes, and
     if Gen. Jackson did not, and if the senator has ever
     condemned either of those patriots for doing so." "I deny,"
     replied Mr. Davis, "that, in the Revolutionary War, there
     ever was any considerable organization of negroes. I deny,
     that, in the war of 1812, there was ever any organization of
     negro slaves. * * * In my own State, I have no doubt that
     there are from eighty to a hundred thousand slaves that
     belong to disloyal men. You propose to place arms in the
     hands of the men and boys, or such of them as are able to
     handle arms, and to manumit the whole mass, men, women, and
     children, and leave them among us. Do you expect us to give
     our sanction and our approval to these things? No, no! We
     would regard their authors as our worst enemies; and there
     is no foreign despotism that could come to our rescue, that
     we would not joyously embrace, before we would submit to
     any such condition of things as that. But, before we had
     invoked this foreign despotism, we would arm every man and
     boy that we have in the land, and we would meet you in a
     death-struggle, to overthrow together such an oppression and
     our oppressors." Mr. Rice remarked in reply to Mr. Davis,
     "The rebels hesitate at nothing. There are no means that God
     or the Devil has given them that they do not use. The
     honorable senator said that the negroes might be useful in
     loading and swabbing and firing cannon. If that be the case,
     may not some of them be useful in loading, swabbing, and
     firing the musket?"

On the 10th of February, 1864, Mr. Stevens (Republican) of Pennsylvania, in the House of Representatives,
moved an amendment to the Enrollment Act. Says the same authority before quoted:

     The Enrollment Bill was referred to a Conference Committee,
     consisting of Mr. Wilson of Massachusetts, Mr. Nesmet of
     Oregon, and Mr. Grimes of Iowa, on the part of the Senate;
     and Mr. Schenck of Ohio, Mr. Deming of Connecticut, and Mr.
     Kernan of New York, on the part of the House. In the
     Conference Committee, Mr. Wilson stated that he never could
     assent to the amendment, unless the drafted slaves were made
     free on being mustered into the service of the United
     States. Mr. Grimes sustained that position; and the House
     committee assented to it. The House amendment was then
     modified so as to read, "That all able-bodied male colored
     persons between the ages of twenty and forty-five years,
     whether citizens or not, resident in the United States,
     shall be enrolled according to the provisions of this act,
     and of the act to which this is an amendment, and form part
     of the national forces; and, when a slave of a loyal master
     shall be drafted and mustered into the service of the United
     States, his master shall have a certificate thereof; and
     thereupon such slave shall be free; and the bounty of a
     hundred dollars, now payable by law for each drafted man,
     shall be paid to the person to whom such drafted person was
     owing service or labor at the time of his muster into the
     service of the United States. The Secretary of War shall
     appoint a commission in each of the slave States represented
     in Congress, charged to award, to each loyal person to whom
     a colored volunteer may owe service, a just compensation,
     not exceeding three hundred dollars, for each such colored
     volunteer, payable out of the fund derived from commutation;
     and every such colored volunteer, on being mustered into the
     service, shall be free."

     "The report of the Conference Committee was agreed to; and
     it was enacted that every slave, whether a drafted man or a
     volunteer, shall be free on being mustered into the military
     service of the United States, not by the act of the master,
     but by the authority of the Federal Government."

When Gen. Banks took command of the Gulf Department, Dec. 1862, he very soon after found the
negro troops an indispensable quantity to the success of his expeditions; consequently he laid
aside his prejudice, and endeavored to out-Herod Gen. Lorenzo Thomas, Adjutant General of the
Army,--who in March had been dispatched on a military inspection tour through the armies of
the West and the Mississippi Valley, and also to organize a number of negro regiments[15]--by
issuing in May the following order:

     GENERAL ORDERS}
            No. 40.}

          Corps d'Afrique.
          HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF.
          19TH ARMY CORPS,

                            Opelousas, May 1, 1863.

     The Major General commanding the Department proposes the
     organization of a corps d'armee of colored troops, to be
     designated as the "Corps d'Afrique." It will consist
     ultimately of eighteen regiments, representing all
     arms--Infantry, Artillery, and Cavalry, organized in three
     Divisions of three Brigades each, with appropriate corps of
     Engineers and flying Hospitals for each Division.
     Appropriate uniforms, and the graduation of pay to
     correspond with value of services, will be hereafter
     awarded.

     In the field, the efficiency of every corps depends upon the
     influence of its officers upon the troops engaged, and the
     practicable limits of one direct command is generally
     estimated at one thousand men. The most eminent military
     historians and commanders, among others Thiers and Chambray,
     express the opinion, upon a full review of the elements of
     military power, that the valor of the soldier is rather
     acquired than natural. Nations whose individual heroism in
     undisputed, have failed as soldiers in the field. The
     European and American continents exhibit instances of this
     character, and the military prowess of every nation may be
     estimated by the centuries it has devoted to military
     contest, or the traditional passion of its people for
     military glory. With a race unaccustomed to military
     service, much more depends on the immediate influence of
     officers upon individual members, than with those that have
     acquired more or less of warlike habits and spirit by
     centuries of contest. It is deemed best, therefore, in the
     organization of the Corps d'Afrique, to limit the regiments
     to the smallest number of men consistent with efficient
     service in the field, in order to secure the most thorough
     instruction and discipline, and the largest influence of the
     officers over the troops. At first they will be limited to
     five hundred men. The average of American regiments is less
     than that number.

     The Commanding General desires to detail for temporary or
     permanent duty the best officers of the army, for the
     organization, instruction and discipline of this corps.
     With their aid, he is confident that the corps will render
     important service to the Government. It is not established
     upon any dogma of equality or other theory, but as a
     practical and sensible matter of business. The Government
     makes use of mules, horses, uneducated and educated white
     men, in the defense of its institutions. Why should not the
     negro contribute whatever is in his power for the cause in
     which he is as deeply interested as other men? We may
     properly demand from him whatever service he can render. The
     chief defect in organizations of this character has arisen
     from incorrect ideas of the officers in command. Their
     discipline has been lax, and in some cases the conduct of
     the regiments unsatisfactory and discreditable.
     Controversies unnecessary and injurious to the service have
     arisen between them and other troops. The organization
     proposed will reconcile and avoid many of these troubles.

     Officers and soldiers will consider the exigencies of the
     service in this Department, and the absolute necessity of
     appropriating every element of power to the support of the
     Government. The prejudices or opinions of men are in nowise
     involved. The co-operation and active support of all
     officers and men, and the nomination of fit men from the
     ranks, and from the lists of non-commissioned and
     commissioned officers, are respectfully solicited from the
     Generals commanding the respective Divisions.

     I.--The regiments of infantry of the Corps d'Afrique,
     authorized by General Orders No. 44, current series, will
     consist of ten companies each, having the following minimum
     organization:

     1 Captain, 1 First Lieutenant, 1 Second Lieutenant, 1 First
     Sergeant, 4 Sergeants, 4 Corporals, 2 Buglers, 40 Privates.

     To the above may be added hereafter, at the discretion of
     the Commanding General, four corporals and forty-two
     privates; thus increasing the strength to the maximum fixed
     by law for a company of infantry.

     The regimental organization will be that fixed by law for a
     regiment of infantry.

     II.--The Commissary and Assistant Commissaries of Musters
     will muster the Second Lieutenant into service as soon as he
     is commissioned; the First Lieutenant when thirty men are
     enlisted; and the Captain when the minimum organization is
     completed.

     III.--The First, Second, Third and Fourth Regiments of
     Louisiana Native Guards will hereafter be known as the
     First, Second, Third and Fourth Regiments of Infantry of the
     Corps d'Afrique.

     IV.--The regiment of colored troops in process of
     organization in the district of Pensacola will be known as
     the Fifth Regiment of Infantry of the Corps d'Afrique.

     V.--The regiments now being raised under the direction of
     Brigadier General Daniel Ullman, and at present known as the
     First, Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth Regiments of Ullman's
     Brigade, will be respectively designated as the Sixth,
     Seventh, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Regiments of Infantry of
     the Corps d'Afrique.

     VI.--The First Regiment of Louisiana Engineers, Colonel
     Justin Hodge, will hereafter be known as the First Regiment
     of Engineers of the Corps d'Afrique.

     BY COMMAND OF MAJOR GENERAL BANKS:

                                      RICHARD B. IRWIN,
                                            Assistant Adjutant General.

     OFFICIAL:
                NATHANIEL BURBANK, Acting Assistant Adjutant General.

General Banks' treatment of the negroes was so very different from that which they had received
from Gen. Butler,--displacing the negro officers of the first three regiments organized,--that
it rather checkmated recruiting, so much so that he found it necessary to resort to the provost
guard to fill up regiments, as the following order indicates:

                      Commission of Enrollment.
     GENERAL ORDERS    HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF,
     No. 64.           New Orleans, August 29, 1863.

     I. Colonel JOHN S. CLARK, Major B. RUSH PLUMLY and Colonel
     GEORGE H. HANKS, are hereby appointed a Commission to
     regulate the Enrollment, Recruiting and Employment and
     Education of persons of color. All questions concerning the
     enlistment of troops for the Corps d'Afrique, the regulation
     of labor, or the government and education of negroes, will
     be referred to the decision of this commission, subject to
     the approval of the Commanding General of the Department.

     II. No enlistments for the Corps d'Afrique will be
     authorized or permitted, except under regulations approved
     by this Commission.

     III. The Provost Marshal General will cause to be enrolled
     all able-bodied men of color in accordance with the Law of
     Conscription, and such number as may be required for the
     military defence of the Department, equally apportioned to
     the different parishes, will be enlisted for the military
     service under such regulations as the Commission may adopt.
     Certificates of exemption will be furnished to those not
     enlisted, protecting them from arrest or other interference,
     except for crime.

     IV. Soldiers of the Corps d'Afrique will not be allowed to
     leave their camps, or to wander through the parishes, except
     upon written permission, or in the company of their
     officers.

     V. Unemployed persons of color, vagrants and camp loafers,
     will be arrested and employed upon the public works, by the
     Provost Marshal's Department, without other pay than their
     rations and clothing.

     VI. Arrests of persons, and seizures of property, will not
     be made by colored soldiers, nor will they be charged with
     the custody of persons or property, except when under the
     command, and accompanied by duly authorized officers.

     VII. Any injury or wrong done to the family of any soldier,
     on account of his being engaged in military service, will be
     summarily punished.

     VIII. As far as practicable, the labor of persons not
     adapted to military service will be provided in substitution
     for that of enlisted men.

     IX. All regulations hitherto established for the government
     of negroes, not inconsistent herewith, will be enforced by
     the Provost Marshals of the different parishes, under the
     direction of the Provost Marshal General.

In the department the actual number of negroes enlisted was never known, from the fact that
a practice prevailed of putting a live negro in a dead one's place. For instance, if a company
on picket or scouting lost ten men, the officer would immediately put ten new men in their
places and have them answer to the dead men's names. I learn from very reliable sources that
this was done in Virginia, also in Missouri and Tennessee. If the exact number of men could
be ascertained, instead of 180,000 it would doubtless be in the neighborhood of 220,000 who
entered the ranks of the army. An order was issued which aimed to correct the habit and to
prevent the drawing, by collusion, of the dead men's pay.

The date of the first organization of colored troops is a question of dispute, but it seems
as if the question might be settled, either by the records of the War Department or the personal
knowledge of those interested. Of course the muster of a regiment or company is the record
of the War Department, but the muster by no means dates the organization of the troops.[16]
For example, a colonel may have been commissioned July, 1862, and yet the muster of his regiment
may be September 1862, and even later, by two months, as is the case in more than one instance.
It is just as fair to take the date of a soldier's enlistment as the date of the organization
of a regiment, as that of the date of the order detailing an officer to recruit as the date
of the colonel's commission. The writer's discharge from the Second Reg't. Louisiana Native
Guards credits him as enlisting on the 1st day of September, 1862; at this date the 1st Reg't.
La. N. G. was in the field, in November the Second Regiment took the field, so that the date
of the organization of the first regiment of colored troops was in September, 1862.

Save the regiments recruited in Kansas, South Carolina and New Orleans during the year 1862,
nothing was done towards increasing the negro army, but in January 1863, when the policy of
the Government was changed and the Emancipation Proclamation foreshadowed the employment of
negroes in the armed service, an activity such as had not been witnessed since the beginning
of the war became apparent. Many officers without commands, and some with, but who sought promotion,
were eager to be allowed to organize a regiment, a battalion or a brigade of negro troops.
Mr. Lincoln found it necessary in less than six months after issuing his Proclamation of Freedom,
to put the whole matter of negro soldiers into the hands of a board.[17] Ambition, as ambition
will, smothered many a white man's prejudice and caused more than one West Pointer to forget
his political education. This order was issued:

     ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE,
                   Washington, D. C., January 13th, 1863.

     BRIGADIER GENERAL D. ULLMAN, Washington, D. C.

     SIR:--By direction of the Secretary of War you are hereby
     authorized to raise a Brigade of (four regiments) of
     Louisiana Volunteer Infantry, to be recruited in that State
     to serve for three years or during the War.

     Each regiment of said Brigade will be organized as
     prescribed in General orders No. 126, series of 1862, from
     this office.

     The recruitment will be conducted in accordance with the
     rules of the service, and the orders of the War Department,
     and by the said department all appointments of officers will
     be made.

     All musters will be made in strict conformity to Paragraph
     86 Revised Mustering Regulations of 1862.

     I am, Very Respectfully Your Obedient Servant,
                     THOMAS M. VINCENT, Asst. Adjt. Gen'l.

     ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE,

                        Washington, D. C., March 24, 1863.

     BRIG. GENERAL ULLMAN, Washington, D. C.

     GENERAL:--By direction of the Secretary of War, you are
     hereby authorized to raise a Battalion (six companies) of
     Louisiana Volunteer Infantry to be used for scouting
     purposes, to be recruited in that State, and to serve for
     three years or during the war.

     The said force will be organized as prescribed in Paragraph
     83, Mustering Regulations.

     I am, General Very Respectfully Your Obedient Servant,

                        THOMAS M. VINCENT, Asst. Adjt. General.

In furtherance of the order General Ullman proceeded to New Orleans and assumed command of
seven thousand troops already organized. It was said that he had arranged to place 500 white
officers in command of the troops in Louisiana.

In October thereafter General Banks issued the following order, which fully explains itself:

     Recruiting for the Corps d'Afrique.

     GENERAL ORDERS       HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF.
     No. 77.                   New Orleans, October 27, 1863.

     I. All persons of Color coming within the lines of the army,
     or following the army when in the field, other than those
     employed in the Staff Department of the army, or as servants
     of officers entitled by the Regulations to have servants, or
     cooks, will be placed in charge of and provided for by the
     several Provost Marshals of the Parishes, or if the army be
     on the march, or in the field, by the Provost Marshal of the
     Army.

     II. The several Provost Marshals of the Parishes and of the
     Army will promptly forward to the nearest recruiting depot
     all able bodied males for service in the Corps d'Afrique.

     III. Recruits will be received for the Corps d'Afrique of
     all able bodied men from sections of the country not
     occupied by our forces, and beyond our lines, without regard
     to the enrollment provided for in General Orders No. 64 and
     70, from these Headquarters.

     IV. Instructions will be given by the President of the
     Commission of Enrollment to the Superintendent of
     Recruiting, to govern in all matters of detail relating to
     recruiting, and officers will be held to a strict
     accountability for the faithful observance of existing
     orders and such instructions; but no officer will be
     authorized to recruit beyond the lines without first having
     his order approved by the officer commanding the nearest
     post, or the officer commanding the Army in the Field, who
     will render such assistance as may be necessary to make the
     recruiting service effective.

     BY COMMAND OF MAJOR GENERAL BANKS:

                      G. NORMAN LIEBER, Act. Asst. Adjt. Gen'l.

At the North where negroes had been refused admission to the army, the President's Proclamation
was hailed with delight. Gov. Andrew, of Massachusetts, at once began the organization of the
54th Regiment of his State, composed entirely of negroes, and on the 28th of May the regiment
being ready to take the field, embarked for South Carolina. Other Northern States followed.
Pennsylvania established Camp Wm. Penn, from which several regiments took their departure,
while Connecticut and Rhode Island both sent a regiment.

The taste with which the negro soldiers arranged their quarters often prompted officers of
white regiments to borrow a detail to clean and beautify the quarters of their commands. An
occurrence of this kind came very near causing trouble on Morris Island, S.C. The matter was
brought to the commanding General's attention and he immediately issued this order:

              DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH, HEADQUARTERS IN THE FIELD.

    GENERAL ORDERS,        Morris Island, S.C., Sept. 17th, 1863.
    No. 77.

     1. It has come to the knowledge of the Brig. Gen. Commanding
     that detachments of colored troops, detailed for fatigue
     duty, have been employed in one instance at least, to
     prepare camps and perform menial duty for white troops. Such
     use of these details is unauthorized and improper, and is
     hereafter expressly prohibited. Commanding Officers of
     colored regiments are directed to report promptly, to the
     Headquarters, any violations of this order which may come to
     their knowledge.

     BY ORDER OF GEN. Q. A. GILLMORE,

     OFFICIAL:           ED. W. SMITH, Asst. Adjt. Gen'l.

               ISRAEL Z. SEALEY, Capt. 47th N.Y. Vols.,
                               Act. Asst. Adjt. General.

The Southern troops generally made no objection to cleaning the quarters of their white allies,
but when a detail from the 54th Mass. Reg't., on its way to the front, was re-detailed for
that purpose, they refused to obey. The detail was placed under arrest. When this information
reached the regiment it was only by releasing the prisoners that a turbulent spirit was quieted.
There were about ten thousand negro troops in and about Morris Island at that time, and they
quickly sneezed at the 54th's snuff. The negro barbers in this department had been refusing
to shave and to cut the hair of negro soldiers in common with the whites. Corporal Kelley of
the 54th Mass. Regiment, who had been refused a shave at a shop located near one of the brigade
Headquarters, went there one evening accompanied by a number of the members of Company C. The
men gathered around the barber's place of business, which rested upon posts a little up from
the ground; the negro barbers were seated in their chairs resting from their labors and listening
to the concert, which it was customary for a band to give each evening. As the last strains
of music were being delivered, one side of the barber shop was lifted high and then suddenly
dropped; it came down with a crash making a wreck of the building and its contents, except
the barbers, who escaped unhurt, but who never made their appearance again. The episode resulted
in the issuing of an order forbidding discrimination on account of color.

The Washington authorities established recruiting stations throughout the South. Of the difficulties
under which recruiting officers labored some idea may be formed by reading the following, written
by the historian of the 7th Regiment:

     "The position of recruiting officer for colored troops was
     by no means a sinecure; on the contrary, it was attended
     with hardships, annoyances and difficulties without number.
     Moving about from place to place; often on scant rations,
     and always without transportation, save what could be
     pressed into service; sleeping in barns, out-houses, public
     buildings,--wherever shelter could be found, and meeting
     from the people everywhere opposition and dislike. To have
     been an officer of colored troops was of itself sufficient
     to ostracize, and when, in addition, one had to take from
     them their slaves, dislike became absolute hatred. There
     were, of course, exceptions, and doubtless every officer
     engaged on this disagreeable duty can bear testimony to
     receiving at times a hospitality as generous as it was
     unexpected, even from people whom duty compelled them to
     despoil. But this was always from "union men," for it must
     be confessed that a large proportion of the property-holders
     on both the eastern and western shores of the Chesapeake
     were as deeply in sympathy with the rebellion as their
     brethren over the Virginia border.

     "Perhaps the most disagreeable feature of this recruiting
     duty was that Gen. Birney (Supt. of recruiting of negro
     troops in Maryland) seldom saw fit to give his subordinates
     anything but verbal instructions. Officers were ordered to
     open recruiting stations; to raid through the country,
     carrying off slaves from under the eyes of their masters; to
     press horses for their own use and that of their men, and
     teams and vehicles for purposes of transportation; to take
     forage when needed; to occupy buildings and appropriate
     fuel; in short, to do a hundred things they had really no
     legal right to do, and had they been called upon, as was
     likely to happen at any time, for the authority under which
     they were acting, they would have had nothing to show but
     their commissions; and if, in carrying out these verbal
     instructions from their chief, they had become involved in
     serious difficulty, they had little reason to suppose that
     they would be sustained by him.

     "When it is remembered that slavery was at that time still a
     recognized institution, and that the duty of a recruiting
     officer often required him to literally strip a plantation
     of its field hands, and that, too, at a time of the year
     when the crops were being gathered, it is perhaps to be
     wondered that the bitter feelings of the slave-owners did
     not often find vent in open resistence and actual violence.
     That this delicate and disagreeable duty was performed in a
     manner to avoid serious difficulty certainly speaks well for
     the prudence and good judgment of the officers and men
     engaged in it.

     "The usual method of proceeding was, upon reaching a
     designated point, to occupy the most desirable public
     building, dwelling-house, warehouse, or barn found vacant,
     and with this as a rendezvous, small parties were sent into
     the surrounding country, visiting each plantation within a
     radius of twenty or thirty miles. The parties, sometimes
     under charge of an officer, usually consisted of a
     non-commissioned officer and ten or twelve men.

     "In these journeys through the country the recruiting
     officer often met with strange experiences. Recruits were
     taken wherever found, and as their earthly possessions
     usually consisted of but what they wore upon their backs,
     they required no time to settle their affairs. The laborer
     in the field would throw down his hoe or quit his plow and
     march away with the guard, leaving his late owner looking
     after him in speechless amazement. On one occasion the
     writer met a planter on the road, followed by two of his
     slaves, each driving a loaded wagon. The usual questions
     were asked and the whilom slaves joined the recruiting
     party, leaving their teams and late master standing in the
     highway. At another time a negro was met with a horse and
     wagon. Having expressed his desire to "'list," he turned his
     horse's head toward home, and marched away in the opposite
     direction.

     "On one occasion the writer visited a large plantation near
     Capeville, Va., and calling upon the proprietor asked him to
     call in his slaves. He complied without a word, and when
     they came and were asked if they wished to enlist, replied
     that they did, and fell into the ranks with the guard. As
     they started away the old man turned to me, and with tears
     in his eyes, said, "Will you take them all? Here I am, an
     old man; I cannot work; my crops are ungathered; my negroes
     have all enlisted or run away, and what am I to do?" A hard
     question, truly. Another officer was called upon by a
     gentleman with this question, "You have taken all my
     able-bodied men for soldiers, the others have run away, and
     only the women and children are left;--what do you propose
     to do with them?" Another hard question.

     "At another time, when the Balloon was lying at the mouth
     of the Pocomoke, accompanied by Lieut. Brown and with a
     boat's crew, we pulled up the river to the plantation of a
     Mrs. D., a noted rebel sympathizer. We were met, as we
     expected, with the most violent abuse from the fair
     proprietoress, which was redoubled when three of her best
     slaves, each of whom had probably been worth a couple of
     thousand dollars in ante-bellum days, took their bundles
     and marched off to the boat. We bade the lady farewell, and
     pushed off amid the shouts and screams of a score of negro
     women and children, and the tears and execrations of the
     widow.

     "To illustrate the unreasonable orders Gen. Birney was
     sometimes in the habit of giving to officers engaged under
     him on recruiting service, the writer well remembers being
     placed by him, at Pungoteague, Va., in charge of some 200
     recruits he had forcibly taken from an officer recruiting
     under Col. Nelson's orders, and receiving from him (Gen.
     Birney) the most positive orders under no circumstances to
     allow Col. Nelson to get possession of them,--Col. Nelson's
     steamer was hourly expected--and that I should be held
     personally responsible that they were put on board his own
     steamer, and this when I had neither men nor muskets to
     enforce the order. Fortunately (for myself) Gen. Birney's
     steamer arrived first and the men were safely put on board.
     Some days later, Lieut. Brown, who was then in charge of the
     same station, had a squad of recruits taken from him by Col.
     Nelson, in retaliation.

     "Many a hap-hazard journey was undertaken in search of
     recruits and recruiting stations. On one occasion an officer
     was ordered by Gen. Birney to take station at a town(?) not
     many miles from Port Tobacco, on the Potomac. After two
     days' careful search he discovered that the town he was in
     search of had been a post-office twenty years before, but
     then consisted of one house, uninhabited and uninhabitable,
     with not another within the circuit of five miles."

When the Government decided to arm the negroes and ordered the organization of a hundred regiments,
it was with great difficulty the equipment department met the requisitions. It necessitated
a departure from the accustomed uniform material for volunteers, and helped to arouse the animosity
of the white troops. Instead of the coarse material issued at first, the Phalanx was clothed
in a fine blue-black dress coat for the infantry, and a superb dark blue jacket for the artillery
and cavalry, all neatly trimmed with brass buttons and white, red and yellow cord, representing
the arm of service; heavy sky blue pantaloons, and a flannel cap, or high crown black felt
hat or chapeau with a black feather looped upon the right side and fastened with a brass eagle.
For the infantry and for the cavalry two swords crossed; for the artillery two cannons on the
front of the chapeau crossed, with the letters of the company, and number of the regiment to
which the soldier belonged. On the caps these insignias were worn on the top of the crown.
The uniform of the Phalanx put the threadbare clothes of the white veterans in sad contrast,
and was the cause of many a black soldier being badly treated by his white comrades.[18]

At the outbreak of the Rebellion, the pay of soldiers (volunteers) was the same as soldiers
of the regular army, by law, $13 per month. The soldiers of the Phalanx enlisted under the
same law and regulations as did the white volunteers, as to pay and term of service, but the
Secretary of War, after a few regiments were in the field, decided, and so ordered, that negro
troops should be paid ten dollars per month.

As to the white officers they were paid in full, but the privates and non-commissioned officers
were allowed but $10 per month, three of which were deducted on account of clothing. In several
instances the paymaster not having received special instructions to that effect, disregarded
the general orders, and paid the negro soldiers in full, like other volunteers; but the order
was generally recognized, though many of the regiments refused to receive the $7 per month,
which was particularly the case of regiments from the Northern States. The order at one time
in the Department of the Gulf, came very near causing a mutiny among the troops, because white
troops, and conscripts at that, and those who had done provost duty about the cities, were
paid $16 per month,--Congress having raised the pay,--while the Phalanx regiments in the field
and fortifications were offered $7. The dissatisfaction was so strongly manifested as to cause
twelve members of the Phalanx to lose their lives, which were not the only ones lost by the
bad faith on the part of the Government. However, in no instance did the Phalanx refuse to
do its duty when called upon, and at the sound of the long roll, though the black flag was
raised against them, and many of their families were suffering at home, their patriotic ardor
never abated in the least. At the North, provisions were made by the States to relieve the
families of the brave men. Massachusetts sent paymasters to make good the promises of the Government,
but the deficiency was rejected. Her regiments, although a year without pay, refused to accept,
and demanded full pay from the Government. The loyal people of the country, at public meetings
and the press,[19] severely criticised the Government, while the patriotic black men continued
to pour out their blood and to give their lives for liberty and the Union.

The matter being one for Congress to adjust, Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts, on the 8th of
Jan. 1864, introduced in the Senate of the United States, a bill to promote enlistments in
the army, and in this measure justice to the black soldiers was proposed. After months of debate,
it was finally passed; not only placing the Phalanx soldiers on a footing with all other troops,
but made free, the mothers, wives and children of the noble black troops.

The fight of the Phalanx for equal pay and allowance with the white troops, was a long one.
The friends of the black soldiers in Congress fought it, however, to the successful issue.
Senator Wilson, of Massachusetts, took the lead in the matter in the Senate, as he did in the
amending of the enrolling acts, and the act calling out the militia, whereby negroes were enrolled.

In the winter of '64 Gen. Butler began the organization of the Army of the James and the enlistment
of negro troops. A camp was established near Fortress Monroe, where a great many men enlisted.
The Secretary of War gave permission to the several Northern States to send agents South, and
to enlist negroes to fill up their quotas of troops needed. Large bounties were then being
paid and many a negro received as much as $500 to enlist; while many who went as substitutes
received even more than that. The recruiting officers or rather agents from the different States
established their headquarters largely within Gen. Butlers departments, where negro volunteers
were frequently secured at a much less price than the regular bounty offered, the agent putting
into his own pocket the difference, which often amounted to $200 or even $400 on a single recruit.
To correct this wrong, Gen. Butler issued the following order:

          HEADQUARTERS DEP'T. VIRGINIA & NORTH CAROLINA,

     GENERAL ORDERS,        IN THE FIELD, Va., August 4th, 1864.
          No. 90.

     With all the guards which the utmost vigilance and care have
     thrown around the recruitment of white soldiers, it is a
     fact, as lamentable as true, that a large portion of the
     recruits have been swindled of part, if not all, of their
     bounties. Can it be hoped that the colored man will be
     better able to protect himself from the infinite ingenuity
     of fraud than the white?

     Therefore, to provide for the families of the colored
     recruits enlisted in this Department--to relieve the United
     States, as far as may be, from the burden of supporting the
     families,--and to insure that at least a portion of the
     bounty paid to the negro shall be received for his use and
     that of his family;

     It is ordered: I--That upon the enlistment of any negro
     recruit into the service of the United States for three (3)
     years, by any State agent or other person not enlisting
     recruits under the direct authority of the War Department, a
     sum of one hundred (100) dollars, or one-third (1/3) of the
     sum agreed to be paid as bounty, shall be paid if the amount
     exceeds three times that sum, into the hands of the
     Superintendent of Recruiting, or an officer to be designated
     by him, and in the same proportion for any less time; and no
     Mustering Officer will give any certificate or voucher for
     any negro recruit mustered into the service of the United
     States, so that he may be credited to the quota of any
     State, or as a substitute, until a certificate is filed with
     him that the amount called for by this order has been paid,
     to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Recruiting of
     the district wherein the recruit was enlisted; but the
     mustering officer will, in default of such payment, certify
     upon the roll that the recruit is not to be credited to the
     quota of any State, or as a substitute.

     II--The amount as paid to the Superintendent of Recruiting
     shall be turned over, on the last day of each month, to the
     Superintendent of Negro Affairs, to be expended in aid of
     the families of negro soldiers in this Department. The
     certificates filed with Commissary of Musters will be
     returned to said Superintendent of Negro Affairs, on the
     first day of every month, so that the Superintendent may
     vouch for the accounts of the Superintendent of Recruiting,
     for the amounts received by him.

     And the Superintendent of Negro Affairs will account monthly
     to the Financial Agent of this Department for the amounts
     received and expended by him.

     III--As there are unfilled colored Regiments in this
     Department sufficient to receive all the negro recruits
     therein, no negro male person above the age of sixteen (16)
     years, shall be taken out or attempted to be taken out of
     this Department, either as a recruit, as officer's servant,
     or otherwise, in any manner whatever, without a pass from
     these Head Quarters. Any officer, Master of Transportation,
     Provost Marshal, or person, who shall aid, assist or permit
     any male negro of the age of sixteen (16) years or upwards,
     to go out of this Department, in contravention of this
     order, will be punished, on conviction thereof before the
     Provost Court, by not less than six (6) months imprisonment
     at hard labor, under the Superintendent of Prison Labor, at
     Norfolk, and if this offence is committed by or with the
     connivance of any Master of Steamboat, Schooner, or other
     vessel, the steamboat or other vessel shall be seized and
     sold, and the proceeds be paid to the Superintendent of
     Negro Affairs, for the use of the destitute negroes
     supported by the Government.

     By command of Major General B. F. BUTLER:

                       R. S. DAVIS, Major and Asst. Adjt. General.

    OFFICIAL: H. T. SCHROEDER, Lt. & A. A. A. Gen'l.
    OFFICIAL: WM. M. PRATT, Lt. & Aide-de-Camp.

The chief result of Butler's order was the establishment of the Freedmens' Savings Bank. At
the close of the war, there were in the hands of the Superintendent of Negro Affairs, eight
thousand dollars unclaimed bounties, belonging, the most of it without doubt, to dead men;
it was placed in a bank at Norfolk, Va. This sum served as a nucleus for the Freedmens' Bank,
which, after gathering large sums of the Freedmens' money, collapsed suddenly.

At Camp Hamilton several regiments were organized, including two of cavalry. The general enlistment
ordered by the War Department was pushed most actively and with great results, till more than
one hundred and seventy-eight thousand, by the records, were enlisted into the army.

The opposition to negro soldiers did not cease with many of the Union generals even after the
Government at Washington issued its mandate for their enlistment and impressment, and notwithstanding
that the many thousands in the service, with their display of gallantry, dash and courage,
as exhibited at Port Hudson, Milliken's Bend, Wagner, and in a hundred other battles, had astonished
and aroused the civilized world. In view of all this, and, even more strangely, in the face
of the Fort Pillow butchery, General Sherman wrote to the Washington authorities, in September,
1864, protesting against negro troops being organized in his department. If Whitelaw Reid's
"Ohio in the War," is to be relied upon, Sherman's treatment of the negroes in his march to
the sea was a counterpart of the Fort Pillow massacre. His opposition was in keeping with that
of the authorities of his state,[20] notwithstanding it has credited to its quota of troops
during the war 5,092 negroes, but one regiment was raised in the State, out of a negro population
of 36,673 by the canvas of 1860.

According to the statistics on file in the Adjutant General's office, the States are accredited
with the following number of negroes who served in the army during the Rebellion:

    ALABAMA,                 2,969
    LOUISIANA,              24,052
    NEW HAMPSHIRE,             125
    MASSACHUSETTS,           3,966
    CONNECTICUT,             1,764
    NEW JERSEY,              1,185
    DELAWARE,                  954
    DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,    3,269
    NORTH CAROLINA,          5,035
    SOUTH CAROLINA,          5,462
    FLORIDA,                 1,044
    TENNESSEE,              20,133
    MICHIGAN,                1,387
    INDIANA,                 1,537
    MISSOURI,                8,344
    IOWA,                      440
    KANSAS,                  2,080
    COLORADO TERRITORY,         95
    MISSISSIPPI,            17,869
    MAINE,                     104
    VERMONT,                   120
    RHODE ISLAND,            1,837
    NEW YORK,                4,125
    PENNSYLVANIA,            8,612
    MARYLAND,                8,718
    VIRGINIA,                5,723
    WEST VIRGINIA,             196
    GEORGIA,                 3,486
    ARKANSAS,                5,526
    KENTUCKY,               23,703
    OHIO,                    5,092
    ILLINOIS,                1,811
    MINNESOTA,                 104
    WISCONSIN,                 165
    TEXAS,                      47
    NOT ACCOUNTED FOR,       5,896

    TOTAL,                 178,975.

The losses these troops sustained from sickness, wounds, killed in battle and other casualties
incident to war, was 68,178.

The aggregate negro population in the U. S. in 1860 was 4,449,201, of which 3,950,531 were slaves.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] General:--The exigencies of the service require that an inspection should be made of the
Armies, military posts and military operations in the West; you will therefore make arrangements
immediately to perform that service. Without entering into any minute details, I beg to direct
your attention to the following subjects of investigation:

First. On arriving at Cairo, you will make a careful examination of the military condition
of that post, in the various branches of service, and report to this Department, the result
of your investigation, suggesting whatever in your opinion, the service may require. You will
observe particularly the condition of that class of population known as contrabands; the manner
in which they are received, provided for and treated by the military authorities, and give
such directions to the Commissary and Quartermaster Departments, and to the officers commanding,
as shall, in your judgement, be necessary to secure to them humane and proper treatment, in
respect to food, clothing, compensation for their service, and whatever is necessary to enable
them to support themselves, and to furnish useful service in any capacity to the Government.

Second. You will make similar observation at Columbus, Memphis and other posts in your progress
to the Headquarters of General Grant's Army.

Third. The President desires that you should confer freely with Major General Grant, and the
officers with whom you may have communication, and explain to them the importance attached
by the Government to the use of the colored population emancipated by the President's Proclamation,
and particularly for the organization of their labor and military strength. You will cause
it to be understood that no officer in the United States service is regarded as in the discharge
of his duties under the Acts of Congress, the President's Proclamation, and orders of this
Department, who fails to employ to the utmost extent, the aid and co-operation of the loyal
colored population in performing the labor incident to military operations, and also in performing
the duties of soldiers under proper organization, and that any obstacle thrown in the way of
these ends, is regarded by the President as a violation of the Acts of Congress, and the declared
purposes of the Government in using every means to bring the war to an end.

Fourth. You will ascertain what military officers are willing to take command of colored troops;
ascertain their qualifications for that purpose, and if troops can be raised and organized,
you will, so far as can be done without prejudice to the service, relieve officers and privates
from the service in which they are engaged, to receive commissions such as they may be qualified
to exercise in the organization of brigades, regiments and companies of colored troops. You
are authorized in this connection, to issue in the name of this department, letters of appointment
for field and company officers, and to organize such troops for military service to the utmost
extent to which they can be obtained in accordance with the rules and regulations of the service.
You will see, more over, and expressly enjoin upon the various staff departments of the service,
that such troops are to be provided with supplies upon the requisition of the proper officers,
and in the same manner as other troops in the service.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Very Respectfully Your Obedient Servant,
    EDWARD M. STANTON, Sec. of War.

                          BRIG. GEN. L. THOMAS,
                          Adjt. Gen'l. U.S. Army. Colonel Williams, of the First Kansas Colored,
was mustered as Lt. Colonel on Jan. 13, 1863; as Col., March 8, 1863.
These dates I have (with the other facts relating to the regiment) from
Col. R. J. Hinton, the first officer detailed to recruit it.

[17]

    GENERAL ORDERS}       WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE,
    No. 143.      }       Washington, May 22, 1863.

I.--A Bureau is established in the Adjutant General's Office for the record of all matters
relating to the organization of Colored Troops. An officer will be assigned to the charge of
the Bureau, with such number of clerks as may be designated by the Adjutant General.

II.--Three or more field officers will be detailed as Inspectors to supervise the organization
of colored troops at such points as may be indicated by the War Department in the Northern
and Western States.

III.--Boards will be convened at such posts as may be decided upon by the War Department to
examine applicants for commissions to command colored troops, who, on application to the Adjutant
General, may receive authority to present themselves to the board for examination.

IV--No persons shall be allowed to recruit for colored troops except specially authorized by
the War Department; and no such authority will be given to persons who have not been examined
and passed by a board; nor will such authority be given any one person to raise more than one
regiment.

V.--The reports of Boards will specify the grade of commission for which each candidate is
fit, and authority to recruit will be given in accordance. Commissions will be issued from
the Adjutant General's Office when the prescribed number of men is ready for muster into service.

VI.--Colored troops may be accepted by companies, to be afterwards consolidated in battalions
and regiments by the Adjutant General. The regiments will be numbered seriatim, in the order
in which they are raised, the numbers to be determined by the Adjutant General. They will be
designated: "---- Regiment of U. S. Colored Troops."

VII.--Recruiting stations and depots will be established by the Adjutant General as circumstances
shall require, and officers will be detailed to muster and inspect the troops.

VIII.--The non-commissioned officers of colored troops may be selected and appointed from the
best men of their number in the usual mode of appointing non-commissioned officers. Meritorious
commissioned officers will be entitled to promotion to higher rank if they prove themselves
equal to it.

IX.--All personal applications for appointments in colored regiments, or for information concerning
them, must be made to the Chief of the Bureau; all written communications should be addressed
to the Chief of the Bureau, to the care of the Adjutant General.

    BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF WAR:
          E. D. TOWNSEND. Asst. Adjt. General.

[18] I attempted to pass Jackson Square in New Orleans one day in my uniform, when I was met
by two white soldiers of the 24th Conn. They halted me and then ordered me to undress. I refused,
when they seized me and began to tear my coat off. I resisted, but to no good purpose; a half
a dozen others came up and began to assist. I recognized a sergeant in the crowd, an old shipmate
on board of a New Bedford, Mass., Whaler; he came to my rescue, my clothing was restored and
I was let go. It was nothing strange to see a black soldier a la Adam come into the barracks
out of the streets. This conduct led to the killing of a portion of a boat's crew of the U.
S. Gunboat Jackson, at Ship Island, Miss., by members of a Phalanx regiment stationed there.
Col. 1st S. C. Vols.    Col. 1st S. C. Vols., (now 33d U. S.)"

[20] "It has been said that one negro regiment was raised in 1863. More ought to have been
secured; let it never be said that it was the fault of the colored men themselves that they
were not.

"At the first call for troops in 1861, Governor Dennison was asked if he would accept negro
volunteers. In deference to a sentiment then almost universal, not less than to the explicit
regulations of the Government, he replied that he could not. When the Emancipation Proclamation
changed the status of negroes so completely, and the Government began to accept their services,
they resumed their applications to the State authorities. Governor Tod still discouraged them.
He had previously committed himself, in repelling the opportunities of their leaders, to the
theory that it would be contrary to our laws, and without warrant either in their spirit or
letter, to accept them, even under calls for militia. He now did all he could to transfer such
as wished to enlist, to the Massachusetts regiments.

"The Adjutant-General, in his report for 1863, professed his inability to say why Massachusetts
should be permitted to make Ohio a recruiting-ground for filling her quotas. If he had looked
into the correspondence which the Governor gave to the public in connection with his message,
he would have found out. As early as May 11th the Governor said, in a letter to Hon. Wm. Porter,
of Millon, Ohio: 'I do not propose to raise any colored troops. Those now being recruited in
this State are recruited by authority from Governor Andrew, of Massachusetts.'

"A few days later he wrote to Hon. John M. Langston: 'As it was uncertain what number of colored
men could be promptly raised in Ohio. I have advised and still do advise, that those disposed
to enter the service promptly join the Massachusetts regiments. * * * Having requested the
Governor of Massachusetts to organize the colored men from Ohio into separate companies, so
far as practicable, and also to keep me fully advised of the names, age, and place of residence
of each, Ohio will have the full benefit of all enlistments from the State, and the recruits
themselves the benefit of the State Associations to the same extent nearly as if organized
into a State regiment.' And to persons proposing to recruit said companies he wrote that all
commissions would be issued by the Governor of Massachusetts. In this course he had the sanction
if not the original suggestion of the Secretary of War. Afterward his applications for authority
to raise an Ohio regiment were for sometime refused, but finally he secured it, and the One
Hundred and Twenty-Seventh was the quick result. Unfortunately it was numbered the Fifth United
States Colored. The result of all this was that Ohio received credit for little over a third
of her colored citizens who volunteered for the war."--Reid's Ohio in the War, Vol. I, p. 176.
His real name was Charles G. Halpine. After an honorable service in the war, rising to high
rank, he was elected Register of New York, and died suddenly while in office, in 1868. The
following sketches from his pen, published during the war, give an account of matters connected
with the recruiting and organizing of negro troops in South Carolina, and are quoted here as
interesting historical facts connected with the subject:

     "Black troops are now an established success, and
     hereafter--while the race can furnish enough able-bodied
     males--the probability would seem that one-half the
     permanent naval and military forces of the United States
     will be drawn from this material, under the guidance and
     control of the white officers. To-day there is much
     competition among the field and staff officers of our white
     volunteers--more especially in those regiments about being
     disbanded--to obtain commission of like or even lower grades
     in the colored regiments of Uncle Sam. General Casey's board
     of examination cannot keep in session long enough, nor
     dismiss incompetent aspirants quick enough, to keep down the
     vast throngs of veterans, with and without shoulder-straps,
     who are now seeking various grades of command in the colored
     brigades of the Union. Over this result all intelligent men
     will rejoice,--the privilege of being either killed or
     wounded in battle, or stricken down by the disease, toil and
     privations incident to the life of a marching soldier, not
     belonging to that class of prerogative for the exclusive
     enjoyment of which men of sense, and with higher careers
     open to them, will long contend. Looking back, however, but
     a few years, to the organization of the first regiment of
     black troops in the departments of the South, what a change
     in public opinion are we compelled to recognize! In sober
     verity, war is not only the sternest, but the quickest, of
     all teachers; and contrasting the Then and Now of our negro
     regiments, as we propose to do in this sketch, the contrast
     will forcibly recall Galileo's obdurate assertion that 'the
     world still moves.'

     "Be it known, then, that the first regiment of black troops
     raised in our recent war, was raised in the Spring of 1862
     by the commanding general of the department of the South, of
     his own motion, and without any direct authority of law,
     order, or even sanction from the President, the Secretary of
     War, or our House of Congress. It was done by General Hunter
     as 'a military necessity' under very peculiar circumstances,
     to be detailed hereafter; and although repudiated at first
     by the Government as were so many other measures originated
     in the same quarter, it was finally adopted as the settled
     policy of the country and of our military system; as have
     likewise since been adopted, all the other original measures
     for which these officers, at the time of their first
     announcement, was made to suffer both official rebuke and
     the violently vituperative denunciation of more than
     one-half the Northern press.

     "In the Spring of 1862, General Hunter, finding himself with
     less than eleven thousand men under his command, and charged
     with the duty of holding the whole tortuous and broken
     seacoast of Georgia, South Carolina and Florida, had applied
     often, and in vain, to the authorities at Washington for
     reinforcements. All the troops that could be gathered in the
     North were less than sufficient for the continuous drain of
     General McClellan's great operations against the enemy's
     capital; and the reiterated answer of the War Department
     was: 'You must get along as best you can. Not a man from the
     North can be spared.'

     "On the mainland of three States nominally forming the
     Department of the South, the flag of the Union had no
     permanent foothold, save at Fernandina, St. Augustine, and
     some few unimportant points along the Florida coast. It was
     on the Sea-islands of Georgia and South Carolina that our
     troops were stationed, and continually engaged in
     fortifying,--the enemy being everywhere visible, and in
     force, across the narrow creeks dividing us from the
     mainland; and in various raids they came across to our
     islands, and we drove them back to the mainland, and up
     their creeks, with a few gunboats to help us--being the
     order of the day; yea, and yet oftener, of the night.

     "No reinforcements to be had from the North; vast fatigue
     duties in throwing up earthworks imposed on our insufficient
     garrison; the enemy continually increasing both in insolence
     and numbers; our only success the capture of Fort Pulaski,
     sealing up of Savannah; and this victory offset, if not
     fully counter-balanced, by many minor gains of the enemy;
     this was about the condition of affairs as seen from the
     headquarters fronting Port Royal bay, when General Hunter
     one fine morning, with twirling glasses, puckered lips, and
     dilated nostrils, (he had just received another
     'don't-bother-us-for-reinforcements' dispatch from
     Washington) announced his intention of 'forming a negro
     regiment, and compelling every able-bodied black man in the
     department to fight for the freedom which could not but be
     the issue of our war.'

     "This resolution being taken, was immediately acted upon
     with vigor, the General causing all the necessary orders to
     be issued, and taking upon himself, as his private burden,
     the responsibility for all the irregular issues of arms,
     clothing, equipments, and rations involved in collecting and
     organizing the first experimental negro regiment. The men he
     intended to pay, at first, by placing them as laborers on
     the pay-roll of the Chief Quartermaster; but it was his hope
     that the obvious necessity and wisdom of the measure he had
     thus presumed to adopt without authority, would secure for
     it the immediate approval of the higher authorities, and the
     necessary orders to cover the required pay and supply-issue
     of the force he had in contemplation. If his course should
     be endorsed by the War Department, well and good; if it were
     not so indorsed, why, he had enough property of his own to
     pay back to the Government all he was irregularly expending
     in this experiment.

     "But now, on the very threshold of this novel enterprise,
     came the first--and it was not a trivial--difficulty. Where
     could experienced officers be found for such an
     organization? 'What! command niggers?' was the reply--if
     possible more amazed than scornful--of nearly every
     competent young lieutenant or captain of volunteers to whom
     the suggestion of commanding this class of troops was made.
     'Never mind,' said Hunter, when this trouble was brought to
     his notice; 'the fools or bigots who refuse are enough
     punished by their refusal. Before two years they will be
     competing eagerly for the commission they now reject.'
     Straightly there was issued a circular to all commanding
     officers in the department, directing them to announce to
     the non-commissioned officers and men of their respective
     commands that commissions in the 'South Carolina Regiment of
     Colored Infantry,' would be given to all deserving and
     reputable sergeants, corporals; and men who would appear at
     department headquarters, and prove able to pass an
     examination in the manual and tactics before a Band of
     Examiners, which was organized in a general order of current
     date. Capt. Arthur M. Kenzie, of Chicago, aid-de-camp,--now
     of Hancock's Veterans Reserve Corps--was detailed as Colonel
     of the regiment, giving place, subsequently, in consequence
     of injured health, to the present Brig.-Gen. James D.
     Fessenden, then a captain in the Berdan Sharpshooters,
     though detailed as acting aid-de-camp on Gen. Hunter's
     staff. Capt. Kenzie, we may add, was Gen. Hunter's nephew,
     and his appointment as Colonel was made partly to prove--so
     violent was then the prejudice against negro troops--that
     the Commanding General asks nothing of them which he was not
     willing that one of his own flesh and blood should be
     engaged in.

     "The work was now fairly in progress, but the barriers of
     prejudice were not to be lightly overthrown.
     Non-commissioned officers and men of the right stamp, and
     able to pass the examination requisite, were scarce
     articles. Ten had the hardihood or moral courage to face
     the screaming, riotous ridicule of their late associates in
     the white regiments. We remember one very striking instance
     in point, which we shall give as a sample of the whole.

     "Our friend Mr. Charles F. Briggs, of this city, so well
     known in literary circles, had a nephew enlisted in that
     excellent regiment the 48th New York, then garrisoning Fort
     Pulaski and the works of Tybee Island. This youngster had
     raised himself by gallantry and good conduct to be a
     non-commissioned officer; and Mr. Briggs was anxious that he
     should be commissioned, according to his capacities, in the
     colored troops then being raised. The lad was sent for,
     passed his examination with credit, and was immediately
     offered a first lieutenancy, with the promise of being made
     captain when his company should be filled up to the required
     standard,--probably within ten days.

     "The inchoate first-lieutenant was in ecstasies; a gentleman
     by birth and education, he longed for the shoulder-straps.
     He appeared joyously grateful; and only wanted leave to run
     up to Fort Pulaski for the purpose of collecting his traps,
     taking leave of his former comrades, and procuring his
     discharge-papers from Col. Barton. Two days after that came
     a note to the department headquarters respectfully declining
     the commission! He had been laughed and jeered out of
     accepting a captaincy by his comrades; and this--though we
     remember it more accurately from our correspondence with Mr.
     Briggs--was but one of many scores of precisely similar
     cases.

     "At length, however, officers were found; the ranks were
     filled; the men learned with uncommon quickness, having the
     imitativeness of so many monkeys apparently, and such
     excellent ears for music that all evolutions seemed to come
     to them by nature. At once, despite all hostile influence,
     the negro regiment became one of the lions of the South; and
     strangers visiting the department, crowded out eagerly to
     see its evening parades and Sunday-morning inspection. By a
     strange coincidence, its camp was pitched on the lawn and
     around the mansion of Gen. Drayton, who commanded the rebel
     works guarding Hilton Head, Port Royal and Beaufort, when
     the same were first captured by the joint naval and military
     operations under Admiral DuPont and General Timothy W.
     Sherman,--General Drayton's brother, Captain Drayton of our
     navy, having command of one of the best vessels in the
     attacking squadron; as he subsequently took part in the
     first iron-clad attack on Fort Sumpter.

     "Meantime, however, the War Department gave no sign, and the
     oracles of the Adjutant-General's office were dumb as the
     statue of the Sphynx. Reports of the organization of the
     First South Carolina infantry were duly forwarded to army
     headquarters; but evoked no comment, either of approval or
     rebuke. Letters detailing what had been done, and the reason
     for doing it; asking instructions, and to have commissions
     duly issued to the officers selected; appeals that the
     department paymaster should be instructed to pay these negro
     troops like other soldiers; demands that the Government
     should either shoulder the responsibility of sustaining the
     organization, or give such orders as would absolve Gen.
     Hunter from the responsibility of backing out from an
     experiment which he believed to be essential to the
     salvation of the country,--all these appeals to Washington
     proved in vain; for the oracles still remained profoundly
     silent, probably waiting to see how public opinion and the
     politicians would receive this daring innovation.

     "At length one evening a special dispatch steamer plowed her
     way over the bar, and a perspiring messenger delivered into
     Gen. Hunter's hands a special despatch from the War
     Department, 'requiring immediate answer.' The General was
     just about mounting his horse for his evening ride along the
     picket-line, when this portentous missive was brought under
     his notice. Hastily opening it, he first looked grave, then
     began to smile, and finally burst into peals of
     irrepressible laughter, such as were rarely heard from
     'Black David,' his old army name. Never was the General
     seen, before or since, in such good spirits; he literally
     was unable to speak from constant interruption of laughter;
     and all his Adjutant-General could gather from him was:
     'That he would not part with the document in his hand for
     fifty thousand dollars.'

     "At length he passed over the dispatch to his Chief of
     Staff, who on reading it, and re-reading it, could find in
     its texts but little apparent cause for merriment. It was a
     grave demand from the War Department for information in
     regard to our negro regiment--the demand being based on a
     certain resolution introduced by the Hon. Mr. Wickliffe, of
     Kentucky, asking for specific information on the point, in a
     tone clearly not friendly. These resolutions had been
     adopted by Congress; and as Hunter was without authority for
     any of his actions in this case, it seemed to his then not
     cheerful Adjutant-General that the documents in his hands
     were the reverse of hilarious.

     "Still Hunter was in extravagant spirits as he rode along,
     his laughter startling the squirrels in the dense pine
     woods, and every attempt that he made to explain himself
     being again and again interrupted by renewed peals of
     inextinguishable mirth. 'The fools!' he at length managed to
     say; 'that old fool has just given me the very chance I was
     growing sick for! The War Department has refused to notice
     my black regiment; but now, in reply to this resolution, I
     can lay the matter before the country, and force the
     authorities either to adopt my negroes or to disband them.'
     He then rapidly sketched out the kind of reply he wished to
     have prepared; and, with the first ten words of his
     explanation, the full force of the cause he had for laughter
     became apparent. Never did a General and his Chief-of-Staff,
     in a more unseemly state of cachinnation, ride along a
     picket-line. At every new phase of the subject it presented
     new features of the ludicrous; and though the reply at this
     late date may have lost much of the drollery which then it
     wore, it is a serio-comic document of as much vital
     importance in the moral history of our late contest as any
     that can be found in the archives under the care of Gen. E.
     D. Townsend. It was received late Sunday evening, and was
     answered very late that night, in order to be in time for
     the steamer Arago, which sailed at daylight next
     morning,--the dispatch-steamer which brought the request
     'for immediate information' having sustained some injuries
     which prevented an immediate return. It was written after
     midnight, we may add, in a tornado of thunder and tempest
     such as has rarely been known even on that tornado-stricken
     coast; but loud as were the peals and vivid the flashes of
     heaven's artillery, there were at least two persons within
     the lines on Hilton Head who were laughing far too noisily
     themselves to pay any heed to external clamors. The reply
     thus concocted and sent, from an uncorrected manuscript copy
     now in our possession, ran as follows:

     "HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH,
                            Hilton Head, S. C., June, 1862.

     "To the HON. E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War, Washington, D. C.

     "SIR:--I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a
     communication from the Adjutant-General of the Army, dated
     June 13, 1862, requesting me to furnish you with the
     information necessary to answer certain Resolutions
     introduced in the House of Representatives June 9, 1862, on
     motion of the Hon. Mr. Wickliffe, of Kentucky; their
     substance being to enquire:

     "1st--Whether I had organized, or was organizing, a regiment
     of 'fugitive slaves' in this department.

     "2d--Whether any authority had been given to me from the War
     Department for such an organization; and

     "3rd--Whether I had been furnished, by order of the War
     Department, with clothing, uniforms, arms, equipments, and
     so forth, for such a force?

     "Only having received the letter at a late hour this
     evening, I urge forward my answer in time for the steamer
     sailing to-morrow morning,--this haste preventing me from
     entering, as minutely as I could wish, upon many points of
     detail, such as the paramount importance of the subject
     would seem to call for. But, in view of the near termination
     of the present session of Congress, and the wide-spread
     interest which must have been awakened by Mr. Wickliffe's
     resolutions, I prefer sending even this imperfect answer to
     waiting the period necessary for the collection of fuller
     and more comprehensive data.

     "To the first question, therefore, I reply: That no regiment
     of 'fugitive slaves' has been, or is being, organized in
     this department. There is, however, a fine regiment of loyal
     persons whose late masters are fugitive rebels--men who
     everywhere fly before the appearance of the national flag,
     leaving their loyal and unhappy servants behind them, to
     shift, as best they can, for themselves. So far, indeed, are
     the loyal persons composing the regiment from seeking to
     evade the presence of their late owners, that they are now,
     one and all, endeavoring with commendable zeal to acquire
     the drill and discipline requisite to place them in a
     position to go in full and effective pursuit of their
     fugacious and traitorous proprietors.

     "To the second question, I have the honor to answer that the
     instructions given to Brig.-Gen. T. W. Sherman by the Hon.
     Simon Cameron, late Secretary of War, and turned over to me,
     by succession, for my guidance, do distinctly authorize me
     to employ 'all loyal persons offering their service in
     defence of the Union, and for the suppression of this
     rebellion,' in any manner I may see fit, or that
     circumstances may call for. There is no restriction as to
     the character or color of the persons to be employed, or the
     nature of the employment--whether civil or military--in
     which their services may be used. I conclude, therefore,
     that I have been authorized to enlist 'fugitive slaves' as
     soldiers, could any such fugitives be found in this
     department. No such characters, however, have yet appeared
     within view of our most advanced pickets,--the loyal negroes
     everywhere remaining on their plantations to welcome us, aid
     us, and supply us with food, labor and information. It is
     the masters who have in every instance been the 'fugitives,'
     running away from loyal slaves as well as loyal soldiers;
     and these, as yet, we have only partially been able to
     see--chiefly their heads over ramparts, or dodging behind
     trees, rifles in hand, in the extreme distance. In the
     absence of any 'fugitive master law,' the deserted slaves
     would be wholly without remedy had not the crime of treason
     given them right to pursue, capture and bring those persons
     of whose benignant protection they have been thus suddenly
     and cruelly bereft.

     "To the third interrogatory, it is my painful duty to reply
     that I have never received any specific authority for issue
     of clothing, uniforms, arms, equipments and so forth, to the
     troops in question,--my general instructions from Mr.
     Cameron, to employ them in any manner I might find
     necessary, and the military exigencies of the department and
     the country, being my only, but I trust, sufficient
     justification. Neither have I had any specific authority for
     supplying these persons with shovels, spades, and pickaxes,
     when employing them as laborers; nor with boats and oars,
     when using them as lighter-men; but these are not points
     included in Mr. Wickliffe's resolution. To me it seemed that
     liberty to employ men in any particular capacity implied and
     carried with it liberty, also, to supply them with the
     necessary tools; and, acting upon this faith, I have
     clothed, equiped, and armed the only loyal regiment yet
     raised in South Carolina, Georgia or Florida.

     "I must say, in vindication of my own conduct, that, had it
     not been for the many other diversified and imperative
     claims on my time and attention, a much more satisfactory
     result might to have been achieved; and that, in place of
     only one regiment, as at present, at least five or six
     well-drilled, and thoroughly acclimated regiments should, by
     this time, have been added to the loyal forces of the Union.

     "The experiment of arming the blacks, so far as I have made
     it, has been a complete and even marvellous success. They
     are sober, docile, attentive, and enthusiastic; displaying
     great natural capacities in acquiring the duties of the
     soldier. They are now eager beyond all things to take the
     field and be led into action; and it is the unanimous
     opinion of the officers who have had charge of them that, in
     the peculiarities of this climate and country, they will
     prove invaluable auxiliaries, fully equal to the similar
     regiments so long and successfully used by the British
     authorities in the West India Islands.

     "In conclusion, I would say, it is my hope--there appearing
     no possibility of other reinforcements, owing to the
     exigencies of the campaign in the Peninsula--to have
     organized by the end of next fall, and be able to present to
     the government, from forty-eight to fifty thousand of these
     hardy and devoted soldiers.

     "Trusting that this letter may be made part of your answer
     to Mr. Wickliffe's resolutions, I have the honor to be,

         Very respectfully your most obedient servant,
                      DAVID HUNTER, Maj.-Gen. Commanding."

     "This missive was duly sent, with many misgivings that it
     would not get through the routine of the War Department in
     time to be laid before Congress previous to the adjournment
     of that honorable body which was then imminent. There were
     fears; too, that the Secretary of War might think it not
     sufficiently respectful, or serious in its tone; but such
     apprehensions proved unfounded. The moment it was received
     and read in the War Department, it was hurried down to the
     House, and delivered, ore retundo, from the clerk's desk.

     "Here its effects were magical. The clerk could scarcely
     read it with decorum; nor could half his words be heard
     amidst the universal peals of laughter in which both
     Democrats and Republicans appeared to vie as to which should
     be the more noisy. Mr. Wickliffe, who only entered during
     the reading of the latter half of the document, rose to his
     feet in a frenzy of indignation, complaining that the reply,
     of which he had only heard some portion, was an insult to
     the dignity of the House, and should be severely noticed.
     The more he raved and gesticulated, the more irrepressibly
     did his colleagues, on both sides of the slavery question,
     scream and laugh; until finally, the merriment reached its
     climax on a motion made by some member--Schuyler Colfax, if
     we remember rightly--that 'as the document appeared to
     please the honorable gentleman from Kentucky so much, and as
     he had not heard the whole of it the Clerk be now requested
     to read the whole again'--a motion which was instantaneously
     carried amid such an uproar of universal merriment and
     applause as the frescoed walls of the chamber have seldom
     heard, either before or since. It was the great joke of the
     day, and coming at a moment of universal gloom in the public
     mind, was seized upon by the whole loyal press of the
     country as a kind of politico-military champaign cocktail.

     "This set that question at rest forever; and not long after,
     the proper authorities saw fit to authorize the employment
     of 'fifty thousand able-bodied blacks for labor in the
     Quartermaster's Department,' and the arming and drilling as
     soldiers of five thousand of these, but for the sole purpose
     of 'protecting the women and children of their
     fellow-laborers who might be absent from home in the public
     service.'

     "Here we have another instance of the reluctance with which
     the National Government took up this idea of employing
     negroes as soldiers; a resolution, we may add, to which they
     were only finally compelled by General Hunter's disbandment
     of his original regiment, and the storm of public
     indignation which followed that act.

     "Nothing could have been happier in its effect upon the
     public mind than Gen. Hunter's reply to Mr. Wickliffe, of
     Kentucky, given in our last. It produced a general broad
     grin throughout the country, and the advocate who can set
     his jury laughing rarely loses his cause. It also
     strengthened the spinal column of the Government in a very
     marked degree; although not yet up to the point of fully
     endorsing and accepting this daring experiment.

     "Meantime the civil authorities of course got wind of what
     was going on,--Mr. Henry J. Windsor, special correspondent
     of the New York Times, in the Department of the south,
     having devoted several very graphic and widely-copied
     letters to a picture of that new thing under the sun,
     'Hunter's negro regiment.'

     "Of course the chivalry of the rebellion were incensed
     beyond measure at this last Yankee outrage upon Southern
     rights. Their papers teemed with vindictive articles against
     the commanding general who had dared to initiate such a
     novelty. The Savannah Republican, in particular,
     denouncing Hunter as 'the cool-blooded abolition miscreant
     who, from his headquarters at Hilton Head, is engaged in
     executing the bloody and savage behest of the imperial
     gorilla who, from his throne of human bones at Washington,
     rules, reigns and riots over the destinies of the brutish
     and degraded North.'

     "Mere newspaper abuse, however, by no means gave content to
     the outraged feeling of the chivalry. They therefore sent a
     formal demand to our Government for information as to
     whether Gen. Hunter, in organizing his regiment of
     emancipated slaves, had acted under the authority of our War
     Department, or whether the villany was of his own
     conception. If he had acted under orders, why then terrible
     measures of fierce retaliation against the whole Yankee
     nation were to be adopted; but if, per contra, the
     iniquity were of his own motion and without the sanction of
     our Government, then the foreshadowed retribution should be
     made to fall only on Hunter and his officers.

     "To this demand, with its alternative of threats, President
     Lincoln was in no mood to make any definitive reply. In fact
     no reply at all was sent, for, as yet, the most far-seeing
     political augurs could not determine whether the bird seen
     in the sky of the Southern Department would prove an eagle
     or a buzzard. Public opinion was not formed upon the
     subject, though rapidly forming. There were millions who
     agreed with Hunter in believing that 'that the black man
     should be made to fight for the freedom which could not but
     be the issue of our war;' and then they were outraged at the
     prospect of allowing black men to be killed or maimed in
     company with our nobler whites.

     "Failing to obtain any reply therefor, from the authorities
     at Washington, the Richmond people determined to pour out
     all their vengeance on the immediate perpetrators of this
     last Yankee atrocity; and forthwith there was issued from
     the rebel War Department a General Order number 60, we
     believe, of the series of 1862--reciting that 'as the
     government of the U. S. had refused to answer whether it
     authorized the raising of a black regiment by Gen. Hunter or
     not' said General, his staff, and all officers under his
     command who had directly or indirectly participated in the
     unclean thing, should hereafter be outlaws not covered by
     the laws of war; but to be executed as felons for the crimes
     of 'inciting negro insurrections wherever caught.'

     "This order reached the ears of the parties mainly
     interested just as Gen. Hunter was called to Washington,
     ostensibly for consultation on public business; but really
     on the motion of certain prominent speculators in marine
     transportation, with those 'big things,' in Port Royal
     harbor,--and they were enormous--with which the General had
     seen fit to interfere. These frauds, however, will form a
     very fruitful and pregnant theme for some future chapters.
     At present our business is with the slow but certain growth
     in the public mind of this idea of allowing some black men
     to be killed in the late war, and not continuing to arrogate
     death and mutilation by projectiles and bayonets as an
     exclusive privilege for our own beloved white race.

     "No sooner had Hunter been relieved from this special duty
     at Washington, than he was ordered back to the South, our
     Government still taking no notice of the order of outlawry
     against him issued by the rebel Secretary of War. He and his
     officers were thus sent back to engage, with extremely
     insufficient forces, in an enterprise of no common
     difficulty, and with an agreeable sentence of sus. per
     col., if captured, hanging over their devoted heads!

     "Why not suggest to Mr. Stanton, General, that he should
     either demand the special revocation of that order, or
     announce to the rebel War Department that our Government has
     adopted your negro-regiment policy as its own--which would
     be the same thing.

     "It was partly on this hint that Hunter wrote the following
     letter to Jefferson Davis,--a letter subsequently suppressed
     and never sent, owing to influences which the writer of this
     article does not feel himself as yet at liberty to
     reveal,--further than to say that Mr. Stanton knew nothing
     of the matter. Davis and Hunter, we may add, had been very
     old and intimate friends, until divided, some years previous
     to our late war, by differences on the slavery question.
     Davis had for many years been adjutant of the 1st U. S.
     Dragoons, of which Hunter had been Captain Commanding; and a
     relationship of very close friendship had existed between
     their respective families. It was this thorough knowledge of
     his man, perhaps, which gave peculiar bitterness to Hunter's
     pen; and the letter is otherwise remarkable as a prophecy,
     or preordainment of that precise policy which Pres't.
     Johnson has so frequently announced, and reiterated since
     Mr. Lincoln's death. It ran--with some few omissions, no
     longer pertinent or of public interest--as follows:

     "TO JEFFERSON DAVIS, TITULAR PRESIDENT OF THE SO-CALLED
     CONFEDERATE STATES.

     "SIR:--While recently in command of the Department of the
     South, in accordance with the laws of the war and the
     dictates of common sense, I organized and caused to be
     drilled, armed and equipped, a regiment of enfranchised
     bondsmen, known as the 1st South Carolina Volunteers.

     "For this action, as I have ascertained, the pretended
     government of which you are the chief officer, has issued
     against me and all of my officers who were engaged in
     organizing the regiment in question, a General Order of
     Outlawry, which announces that, if captured, we shall not
     even be allowed the usual miserable treatment extended to
     such captives as fall into your hands; but that we are to be
     regarded as felons, and to receive the death by hanging due
     to such, irrespective of the laws of war.

     "Mr. Davis, we have been acquainted intimately in the past.
     We have campaigned together, and our social relations have
     been such as to make each understand the other thoroughly.
     That you mean, if it be ever in your power, to execute the
     full rigor of your threats, I am well assured; and you will
     believe my assertion, that I thank you for having raised in
     connection with me and my acts, this sharp and decisive
     issue. I shall proudly accept, if such be the chance of war,
     the martyrdom you menace; and hereby give you notice that
     unless your General Order against me and my officers be
     formally revoked, within thirty days from the date of the
     transmission of this letter, sent under a flag of truce, I
     shall take your action in the matter as finale; and will
     reciprocate it by hanging every rebel officer who now is, or
     may hereafter be taken, prisoner by the troops of the
     command to which I am about returning.

     "Believe me that I rejoice at the aspect now being given to
     the war by the course you have adopted. In my judgment, if
     the undoubted felony of treason had been treated from the
     outset as it deserves to be--as the sum of all felonies and
     crimes--this rebellion would never have attained its present
     menacing proportions. The war you and your fellow
     conspirators have been waging against the United States must
     be regarded either as a war of justifiable defence, carried
     on for the integrity of the boundaries of a sovereign
     Confederation of States against foreign aggression, or as
     the most wicked, enormous, and deliberately planned
     conspiracy against human liberty and for the triumph of
     treason and slavery, of which the records of the world's
     history contain any note.

     "If our Government should adopt the first view of the case,
     you and your fellow rebels may justly claim to be
     considered a most unjustly treated body of disinterested
     patriots,--although, perhaps, a little mistaken in your
     connivance with the thefts by which your agent, John B.
     Floyd, succeeded in arming the South and partially disarming
     the North as a preparative to the commencement of the
     struggle.

     "But if on the other hand--as is the theory of our
     Government--the war you have levied against the U. S. be a
     rebellion the most causeless, crafty and bloody ever
     known,--a conspiracy having the rule-or-ruin policy for its
     basis; the plunder of the black race and the reopening of
     the African slave trade for its object, the continued and
     further degradation of ninety per cent. of the white
     population of the South in favor of a slave driving ten per
     cent. aristocracy, and the exclusion of all foreign-born
     immigrants from participation in the generous and equal
     hospitality foreshadowed to them in the Declaration of
     Independence,--if this, as I believe, be a fair statement of
     the origin and motives of the rebellion of which you are the
     titular head, then it would have been better had our
     Government adhered to the constitutional view of treason
     from the start, and hung every man taken in arms against the
     U. S. from the first butchery in the streets of Baltimore,
     down to the last resultless battle fought in the vicinity of
     Sharpsburg. If treason, in other words, be any crime, it is
     the essence of all crimes; a vast machinery of guilt,
     multiplying assassinations into wholesale slaughter, and
     organizing plunder as the basis for supporting a system of
     National Brigandage. Your action, and that of those with
     whom you are in league, has its best comment in the sympathy
     extended to your cause by the despots and aristocracies of
     Europe. You have succeeded in throwing back civilization for
     many years; and have made of the country that was the
     freest, happiest, proudest, richest, and most progressive
     but two short years ago, a vast temple of mourning, doubt,
     anxiety and privation; our manufactories of all but war
     material nearly paralyzed; the inventive spirit which was
     forever developing new resources destroyed, and our flag,
     that carried respect everywhere, now mocked by enemies who
     think its glory tarnished, and that its power is soon to
     become a mere tradition of the past.

     "For all these results, Mr. Davis, and for the three hundred
     thousand lives already sacrificed on both sides in the
     war--some pouring out their blood on the battle-field, and
     others fever stricken and wasting away to death in
     overcrowded hospitals--you and the fellow miscreants who
     have been your associates in this conspiracy are
     responsible. Of you and them it may, with truth be said,
     that if all the innocent blood which you have spilled could
     be collected in one pool, the whole government of your
     Confederacy might swim in it.

     "I am aware that this is not the language in which the
     prevailing etiquette of our army is in the habit of
     considering your conspiracy. It has come to pass--through
     what instrumentalities you are best able to decide--that the
     greatest and worst crime ever attempted against the human
     family, has been treated in certain quarters as though it
     were a mere error of judgment on the part of some gifted
     friend; a thing to be regretted, of course, as causing more
     or less disturbance to the relation of amity and esteem
     heretofore existing between those charged with the
     repression of such eccentricities and the eccentric actors;
     in fact, as a slight political miscalculation or peccadillo,
     rather than as an outrage involving the desolation of a
     continent, and demanding the promptest and severest
     retribution within power of human law.

     "For myself, I have never been able to take this view of the
     matter. During a lifetime of active service, I have seen the
     seeds of this conspiracy planted in the rank soil of
     slavery, and the upas-growth watered by just such tricklings
     of a courtesy alike false to justice, expediency, and our
     eternal future. Had we at an earlier day commenced to call
     things by their right names, and to look at the hideous
     features of slavery with our ordinary eyesight and common
     sense, instead of through the rose-colored glasses of
     supposed political expediency, there would be three hundred
     thousand more men alive to-day on American soil; and our
     country would never for a moment have forfeited her proud
     position as the highest exampler of the blessings--morals,
     intellectual and material--to be derived from a free form of
     government.

     "Whether your intention of hanging me and those of my staff
     and other officers who were engaged in organizing the 1st S.
     C. Volunteers, in case we are taken prisoners in battle,
     will be likely to benefit your cause or not, is a matter
     mainly for your own consideration. For us, our profession
     makes the sacrifice of life a contingency ever present and
     always to be accepted; and although such a form of death as
     your order proposes, is not that to the contemplating of
     which soldiers have trained themselves, I feel well assured,
     both for myself and those included in my sentence, that we
     could die in no manner more damaging to your abominable
     rebellion and the abominable institution which is its
     origin.

     "The South has already tried one hanging experiment, but not
     with a success--one would think--to encourage its
     repetition. John Brown, who was well known to me in Kansas,
     and who will be known in appreciative history through
     centuries which will only recall your name to load it with
     curses, once entered Virginia with seventeen men and an
     idea. The terror caused by the presence of his idea, and the
     dauntless courage which prompted the assertion of his faith,
     against all odds, I need not now recall. The history is too
     familiar and too painful. 'Old Ossawatomie' was caught and
     hung; his seventeen men were killed, captured or dispersed,
     and several of them shared his fate. Portions of his skin
     were tanned, I am told, and circulated as relics dear to the
     barbarity of the slave-holding heart. But more than a
     million of armed white men, Mr. Davis, are to-day marching
     South, in practical acknowledgement that they regard the
     hanging of three years ago as the murder of a martyr; and as
     they march to a battle which has the emancipation of all
     slaves as one of its most glorious results, his name is on
     their lips; to the music of his memory their marching feet
     keep time; and as they sling knapsacks each one becomes
     aware that he is an armed apostle of the faith preached by
     him,

          "'Who has gone to be a soldier
          In the army of the Lord!'

     "I am content, if such be the will of Providence to ascend
     the scaffold made sacred by the blood of this martyr; and I
     rejoice at every prospect of making our struggle more
     earnest and inexorable on both sides; for the sharper the
     conflict the sooner ended; the more vigorous and remorseless
     the strife, the less blood must be shed in it eventually.

     "In conclusion, let me assure you, that I rejoice with my
     whole heart that your order in my case, and that of my
     officers, if unrevoked, will untie our hands for the future;
     and that we shall be able to treat rebellion as it deserves,
     and give to the felony of treason a felon's death.

     "Very obediently yours,
                  DAVID HUNTER, Maj.-Gen." The rebel order still remained in full force, and
     with no protest against it on the part of our Government;
     nor to our knowledge, was any demand from Washington ever
     made for its revocation during the existence of the
     Confederacy. If Hunter, therefore, or any of his officers,
     had been captured in any of the campaigns of the past two
     and a half years, they had the pleasant knowledge for their
     comfort that any rebel officers into whose hands they might
     fall, was strictly enjoined to--not 'shoot them on the
     spot,' as was the order of General Dix, but to hang them on
     the first tree; and hang them quickly.

     "With the subsequent history of our black troops the public
     is already familiar. General Lorenzo Thomas, titular
     Adjutant-General of our army, not being regarded as a very
     efficient officer for that place, was permanently detailed
     on various services; now exchanging prisoners, now
     discussing points of military law, now organizing black
     brigades down the Mississippi and elsewhere. In fact, the
     main object seemed to be to keep this Gen. Thomas--who must
     not be confounded with Gen. George H. Thomas, one of the
     true heroes of our army,--away from the Adjutant-General's
     office at Washington, in order that Brigadier-General E. W.
     Townsend--only a Colonel until quite recently--might perform
     all the laborious and crushing duties of Adjutant-General of
     our army, while only signing himself and ranking as First
     Assistant Adjutant-General. If there be an officer who has
     done noble service in the late war while receiving no public
     credit for the same,--no newspaper puffs nor public
     ovation,--that man is Brigadier-General E. W. Townsend, who
     should long since have been made a major-general, to rank
     from the first day of the rebellion.

     "And now let us only add, as practical proof that the
     rebels, even in their most rabid state, were not insensible
     to the force of proper "reasons," the following anecdote:
     Some officers of one of the black regiments--Colonel
     Higginson's, we believe--indiscreetly rode beyond our lines
     around St. Augustine in pursuit of game, but whether
     feathered or female this deponent sayeth not. Their guide
     proved to be a spy, who had given notice of the intended
     expedition to the enemy, and the whole party were soon
     surprised and captured. The next we heard of them, they were
     confined in the condemned cells of one of the Florida State
     prisons, and were to be "tried"--i. e., sentenced and
     executed--as 'having been engaged in inciting negro
     insurrection.'

     "We had some wealthy young slave-holders belonging to the
     first families of South Carolina in the custody of
     Lieutenant-Colonel J. F. Hall--now Brigadier-General of this
     city, who was our Provost Marshal; and it was on this basis
     Gen. Hunter resolved to operate. 'Release my officers of
     black troops from your condemned cells at once, and notify
     me of the fact. Until so notified, your first family
     prisoners in my hands'--the names then given--'will receive
     precisely similar treatment. For each of my officers hung, I
     will hang three of my prisoners who are slave-holders.' This
     dose operated with instantaneous effect, and the next letter
     received from our captured officers set forth that they were
     at large on parole, and treated as well as they could wish
     to be in that miserable country.

     "We cannot better conclude this sketch, perhaps, than by
     giving the brief but pregnant verses in which our
     ex-orderly, Private Miles O'Reilly, late of the Old Tenth
     Army Corps, gave his opinion on this subject. They were
     first published in connection with the banquet given in New
     York by Gen. T. F. Meagher and the officers of the Irish
     Brigade, to the returned veterans of that organization on
     the 13th of Jan. 1864, at Irving Hall. Of this song it may,
     perhaps, be said, in verity and without vanity, that, as
     Gen. Hunter's letter to Mr. Wickliffe had settled the negro
     soldiers' controversy in its official and Congressional
     form, so did the publication and immediate popular adoption
     of these verses conclude all argument upon this matter in
     the mind of the general public. Its common sense, with a
     dash of drollery, at once won over the Irish, who had been
     the bitterest opponents of the measure, to become its
     friends; and from that hour to this, the attacks upon the
     experiment of our negro soldiery have been so few and far
     between that, indeed, they may be said to have ceased
     altogether. It ran as follows, and appeared in the Herald
     the morning after the banquet as a portion of the report of
     the speeches and festivities:

          "SAMBO'S RIGHT TO BE KIL'T.

          (Air--The Low-Backed Chair.)

          Some say it is a burnin' shame
            To make the naygurs fight,
          An' that the thrade o' being kilt
            Belongs but to the white;
          But as for me, upon me sowl,
            So liberal are we here,
          I'll let Sambo be murthered in place o' meself
            On every day in the year.
          On every day in the year, boys,
          An' every hour in the day,
          The right to be kil't I'll divide wid him,
            An' divil a word I'll say.

          In battle's wild commotion
            I shouldn't at all object,
          If Sambo's body should stop a ball
            That was comin' for me direct;
          An' the prod of a Southern bagnet,
            So liberal are we here,
          I'll resign and let Sambo take it,
            On every day in the year.
          On every day in the year boys,
          An' wid none o' your nasty pride,
          All right in a Southern bagnet prod
            Wid Sambo I'll divide.

          The men who object to Sambo
            Should take his place and fight;
          An' it's betther to have a naygur's hue
            Than a liver that's wake an' white;
          Though Sambo's black as the ace o' spades
            His finger a thrigger can pull,
          An' his eye runs sthraight on the barrel sight
            From under its thatch o' wool.
          So hear me all, boys, darlins!
            Don't think I'm tippen' you chaff,
          The right to be kilt I'll divide wid him,
            An' give him the largest half!

     "In regard to Hunter's reply to Mr. Wickliffe, we shall only
     add this anecdote, told us one day by that brilliant
     gentleman and scholar, the Hon "Sunset" Cox, of Ohio (now of
     New York): 'I tell you, that letter from Hunter spoiled the
     prettiest speech I had ever thought of making. I had been
     delighted with Wickliffe's motion, and thought the reply to
     it would furnish us first-rate Democrat's thunder for the
     next election. I made up my mind to sail in against Hunter's
     answer--no matter what it was--the moment it came; and to be
     even more humorously successful in its delivery and
     reception than I was in my speech against War Horse Gurley,
     of Ohio, which you have just been complimenting. Well, you
     see, man proposes, but providence orders otherwise. When the
     Clerk announced the receipt of the answer, and that he was
     about to read it, I caught the Speaker's eye and was booked
     for the first speech against your negro experiment. The
     first sentence, being formal and official, was very well;
     but at the second the House began to grin, and at the third,
     not a man on the floor--except Father Wickliffe, of
     Kentucky, perhaps--who was not convulsed with laughter. Even
     my own risibles I found to be affected; and before the
     document was concluded, I motioned the Speaker that he might
     give the floor to whom he pleased, as my desire to
     distinguish myself in that particular tilt was over.'"

CHAPTER IV.

OFFICERS OF THE PHALANX.

The character, qualifications and proficiency of the men, who, as officers, commanded the negro
troops, may be judged by the process which they had to undergo in order to obtain commissions.
Unlike the officers of the white volunteers (with whom loyalty and dash were the essential
qualifications) they were required to possess much more than an ordinary knowledge of military
tactics. Major-General Hunter, by whose order the first negro regiment with white officers
was organized, commencing May, 1862, had an eye single to the make up of the men who should
be placed in command of the regiments. Gen., Mil. Gov."

This was an excellent selection, and Captain Higginson's acceptance rather assured a fair trial
for the men who should compose this regiment, as well as the quality of its officers.

The first Kansas regiment which recruited in that State, commencing in August, 1862, was also
fortunate in having Colonel R. J. Hinton.

General Butler, at New Orleans, was prevented by circumstances surrounding him at the time,
from choosing among the friends of the negro race, as was the case in the before mentioned
regiments, men to command the first and second regiments organized by him in the above named
city, in August, 1862. He was only too glad to find white men of military capacity to take
charge of the drilling and disciplining of the troops. As an experiment he was more than lucky
in the appointment of Colonels Stafford and Daniels to the command of these regiments, seconded
by Lieut. Cols. Bassett and Hall, and Finnegass of the 3rd Regiment. These officers proved
themselves worthy of the trust reposed in them, and made these regiments, in drill and discipline,
second to none in the Department of the Gulf. Notwithstanding the captains and subordinate
officers of the first and second regiments were men, who like those in a large majority of
the white regiments had never made arms a profession, and, who, through American prejudice,
had but very limited opportunities for acquiring even the rudiments of a common English education.
Several of them, however, being mulattoes, had had some training in the schools of the parishes,
and some few in the higher schools of France, and in the Islands of the Caribbean Sea. Maj.
Dumas, of the 2nd Regiment, whose slaves composed nearly one whole company, was a gentleman
of fine tact and ability, as were others.

Considering that they were all negroes, free and slave, their dash and manly courage, no less
than their military aptitude, was equal, and in many instances superior, to those found in
the regiments of Maine and New York. The 3rd Regiment was officered by soldiers of undoubted
character and pluck, as they proved themselves to be, during the siege of Port Hudson, especially
Capt. Quinn, who won distinction and promotion, as the record shows. The regiments raised thereafter
were officered, more or less, by the non-commissioned officers of the white regiments, as a
reward for gallantry and meritorious service upon the field, or on account of proficiency in
drill. This rule of selection held good throughout all the departments in the organizing of
negro troops. In May, 1863, President Lincoln, with a view of correcting an abuse that a certain
commanding general had begun to practice in assigning inferior, though brave, men to the command
of negro regiments; and in keeping with his new policy of arming the negroes, for which Gen.
Lorenzo Thomas, Adjutant General of the Army, had gone into the Mississippi Valley region to
raise twenty regiments, he appointed a Board for the examination of those applying for commands
in negro regiments.

The "Record of the 7th Reg't. U.S. Colored Troops," in regard to the matter, says: "That the
labors of this Board contributed very materially to the success of the experiment of raising
this class of troops, no one cognizant with the facts can doubt. The operations of the Board
can best be shown by quoting the following letter received from Gen. Casey in reply to some
enquiries on the subject:

                                "BROOKLYN, Nov. 30th, 1875.

     * * * "The Board for the Examination of candidates for
     officers in colored regiments, of which I was President, was
     appointed in May, 1863, and continued its duties about two
     years. This movement was, at first, very unpopular with a
     portion of the people of the country, as also with a large
     portion of the army. I, although doubting at first with
     regard to the expediency of operating in large bodies with
     this species of force, determined, that so far as I was
     concerned, it should have a fair trial.

     "A system was adopted for the examination of candidates
     which did not allow influence, favor or affection to
     interfere with the enforcement of its provisions. The Board
     examined nearly three thousand candidates, seventeen hundred
     of whom they recommended for commissions in various grades,
     from colonel down.

     "From my knowledge of the officers of white volunteers,
     gained in my duties connected with receiving and organizing,
     in the city of Washington, 300,000 of them, and also as
     commander of a division on the Peninsula, I have no
     hesitation in saying that the officers of the colored
     regiments, who passed the Board, as a body were superior
     to them, physically, mentally and morally.

     "From the concurrent reports received from various sources,
     there is but little doubt that the success of the colored
     troops in the field was brought about in no small degree by
     the action of the Board.

     "The following is the copy of a letter which I addressed to
     a gentleman of Philadelphia, and which you may find of
     interest:

     'In conversation with you a few days since, I promised to
     elaborate somewhat the ideas which I expressed with regard
     to the appointment of officers of colored troops.

     'Military men, whose opinion is worth having, will agree in
     this, that to have good and efficient troops it is
     indispensable that we should have good officers. The
     material for soldiers which the loyal States have furnished
     during this rebellion, I have no hesitation in saying, is
     the best that the world has ever seen. Such men deserve to
     have officers to command them who have been educated to the
     military profession. But few men are really fit to command
     men who have not had such an education. In default of this,
     as a sufficient number of such men cannot be found in the
     country, the number has to be made up from the best
     available material. In order to ascertain whether or not the
     aspirant possesses the proper knowledge and capacity for
     command, it is necessary that he be examined by a board of
     competent officers. The fact that the life and death of the
     men of the regiment is intimately connected with the
     competency of its officers, is not sufficiently appreciated
     by the community.

     'The Board for the examination of officers of colored troops
     over which I preside, considers three things as
     indispensable before recommending a candidate, viz.: A good
     moral character, physical capacity, true loyalty to the
     country. A person possessing these indispensable
     qualifications is now submitted to an examination as to his
     knowledge of tactics and capacity for command.

     'The following grades are entertained, viz.:

          Colonel--1st, 2d and 3d Class.
          Lieut.-Colonel--1st, 2d and 3d Class.
          Major--           "
          Captain--         "
          1st Lieut.--      "
          2d Lieut.--       "

     and the recommendations for appointment made according to
     the applicant's merits.

     'We have endeavored, to the best of our ability, to make
     this recommendation without partiality, favor or affection.
     We consider alone, in making our awards, the ability of the
     person to serve his country in the duties appertaining to
     the office. If, in the opinion of the Board, the person is
     not possessed of sufficient knowledge or capacity to fill
     either of the above named to the advantage of his country,
     he is rejected, notwithstanding any influence he may be able
     to bring to bear in the case. Let it be remembered that zeal
     alone is not sufficient; but what we require for a good
     officer is zeal combined with knowledge. No ordinary man can
     properly fill the office of colonel of a regiment. To
     acquire that knowledge of tactics as would fit him to
     command his regiment, as it ought to be in all situations,
     requires much study and practice, and is by no means easy.
     He should, besides, possess good administrative qualities,
     in order that affairs should run smoothly in his command,
     and the officers and privates be as contented and happy as
     circumstances admit. Nor can too much trouble be taken
     properly to prepare persons to fill the responsible position
     of officers. Each State should have its military academy. In
     the meantime much good can be done by instituting a school
     for the instruction of persons (especially those who have
     had some experience in the service) who may have the
     requisite capacity and zeal to serve their country with
     advantage. Eschew all humbuggery and mere pretension, and
     let merit be the test of advancement.

     'Let it be impressed deeply on the conscience of every man
     of influence and authority that when he places in command an
     incompetent officer he is guilty of manslaughter. The
     country has lost millions of treasure and thousands of lives
     by the incompetency of officers. We have many enemies on
     earth besides the Southern rebels. The fate of free
     institutions, not only in our own country, but in other
     lands, the destiny of millions unborn, depend upon our
     ability to maintain this contest to a successful issue
     against all our enemies, both foreign and domestic.

     'The system of examination instituted by this Board, in my
     opinion, should be extended to the white as well as colored
     troops.

     'Many of those who have been unsuccessful in the examination
     before the Board have, no doubt, in some cases, felt
     aggrieved, as also their friends.

     'We have established a system of examination for officers,
     the good effects of which are already apparent in the
     colored organizations in the field. In the performance of
     this responsible, and not always agreeable duty, of
     presiding over this Board, I have always endeavored to be
     guided by conscientious regard for the good of the country,
     and I have every confidence that a just and intelligent
     people will award their approbation.

                                            SILAS CASEY,
                       Bvt. Major-General U.S. Army.'"

Of course this did not apply to regiments raised at the North, generally. They were officered
by the elite, such as Col. R. G. Shaw, of the 54th Massachusetts, a former member of the 7th
New York Regiment, and upon whose battle monument his name is carved. Cols. James C. Beecher,
Wm. Birney and a host of others, whose names can now be found on the army rolls, with the prefix
General, commanded these regiments. Of those who commanded Southern regiments this is equally
true, especially of those who served in the 9th, 10th, 18th and 19th Corps. Col. Godfred Weitzel,
who in March, 1865, had been promoted to Major General of Volunteers, commanded the 25th Corps
of 30,000 negro soldiers. The select corps of officers intended to officer Gen. Ullman's brigade
of four regiments to be raised at New Orleans by order of the War Department, dated January
1863, as well as the battalion, which he was also ordered to raise for scouting purposes, the
following March, included many men of rank. To command a negro regiment or company was at this
date a coveted prize, for which men of wealth and education contended. The distinction which
they were continually winning for their officers, frequently overcame the long-cherished prejudice
of West Point, and the graduates of this caste institution now vied for commissions in negro
regiments, in which many of them served during the Rebellion and since.

It was the idea of Gen. Banks when organizing the Corps d'Afrique to appoint even the non-commissioned
officers from the ranks of white regiments, and he did so in several instances. His hostility
to negro officers was the cause of his removing them from the regiments, which Major General
Butler organized at New Orleans in 1862.

At first it was proposed to pay the officers of negro troops less than was paid the officers
of white soldiers, but this plan was abandoned. Toward the close of the war nearly all the
chaplains appointed to negro regiments were negroes; non-commissioned officers were selected
from the ranks, where they were found as well qualified as those taken from the ranks of white
regiments. In the 10th and 18th Corps it was a common thing for the orderly sergeants to call
their company's roll from memory, and the records of many companies and regiments are kept
at the War Department in Washington, as mementoes of their efficiency.

Such were the men who commanded the Black Phalanx. The following are the names of the negro
commissioned officers of the Butler Louisiana Regiments:

ROSTER OF NEGRO OFFICERS OF THE LOUISIANA NATIVE GUARD VOLUNTEER REGIMENTS.

FIRST REGIMENT.

    Capts.  Andrew Cailloux,     Louis A. Snaer,      John Depass,
      "     Henry L. Rey,        Edward Carter,       Joseph Follin,
      "     James Lewis,         James H. Ingraham,   Aleide Lewis.
    Lieuts. Lewis Petit,         Ernest Sougpre,      J. G. Parker,
      "     J. E. Morre,         Wm. Harding,         John Hardman,
      "     F. Kimball,          V. Lesner,           J. D. Paddock,
      "     Louis D. Lucien.

SECOND REGIMENT.

    Major   F. E. Dumas,[21]
    Capts.  E. A. Bertinnean,    Hannibal Carter,     E. P. Chase,
      "     W. P. Barrett,       S. W. Ringgold,      P. B. S. Pinchback,
      "     William Bellez,      Monroe Menllim,      Joseph Villeverde,
      "     Samuel J. Wilkerson, R. H. Isabella.
    Lieuts. Octave Rey,          J. P. Lewis,         Jasper Thompson,
      "     Ernest Murphy,       Calvin Glover,       J. Wellington,
      "     Louis Degray,        George T. Watson,    Joseph Jones,
      "     Alphonso Fluery,     Rufus Kinsley,       Ernest Hubian,
      "     Theo. A. Martin,     Soloman Hoys,        Alfred Arnis,
      "     Peter O. Depremont.

THIRD REGIMENT.

    Capts.  Jacques Gla,         Peter A. Gardner,    Leon G. Forstall,
      "     Joseph C. Oliver,    Charles W. Gibbons,  Samuel Laurence,
      "     John J. Holland.
    Lieuts. Paul Paree,          Morris W. Morris,    Emile Detrege,
      "     Eugene Rapp,         E. T. Nash,          Alfred Bourgoan,
      "     E. Moss,             Chester W. Converse, G. B. Miller,
      "     G. W. Talmon,        Octave Foy,          Chas. Butler.

NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.

74TH U. S. C. T. CO. I. 2D LA. N. G.

    Sergts. Joseph Boudraux,    Andrieu Vidal,        Joseph Bellevue,
      "     Louis Martin,       Jessy C. Wallace,
    Corpls. Paul Bonne,         Thos. William,        Joseph Labeaud,
      "     Joseph Toolmer,     Louis Ford,           Peter Fleming,

As "muster in" rolls show.

74TH U. S. C. T. CO. D. 2ND N. G.

    1st Sergts. Joseph Francois, Adolph Augustin,     John Frick,
         "      Francois Remy,   Louis Duquenez.
    Corpls. Dorsin Sebatier,     Auguste Martin,      Lucien Boute,
      "     Adolphe Decoud,      Oscar Samuel,        Andre Gregoire,
      "     Joseph Armand,       Achilles Decoud.

As "muster out" rolls show.

75TH U. S. C. T. CO. F. 3RD N. G.

    Sergts. Hy. White,          Robert Williams,    Mathew Roden,
      "     Frank Nichols,

    Corpls. Alfred Kellie,      Philip Craff,       Julius Vick.

As mustered out.

73RD U. S. C. T. CO. A. 1ST LA. N. G.

    Sergts. Joseph R. Forstall, Edmund Tomlinson,        Edgar Thezan,
       "    Numa Brihou,        Edward P. Ducloslange,
    Corpls. John G. Seldon,     Thelesphore J. Sauvinet, Alonzo Tocca,
       "    Joseph Francois,    Antonio Segura,          Auguste Martin,
       "    Francois Remy,      Ernest Brustic,

73RD U. S. C. T. CO. B. 1ST LA. N. G.

    Sergts. Faustin Zenon,      Louis Francois,     August Bartholenny,
       "    Joseph Alfred,      Wm. Armstrong,

Arthur Gaspard was a Sergeant at "muster in" of company; discharged for wounds Dec. 10th, 1863.

    Corpls. Alphonse Barbe,     Albert Victor,      Wm. John Baptist,
       "    Louis Gille.

These were non-commissioned officers of Co. B at "muster out."

73RD U. S. C. T. CO. H. 1ST LA. N. G.

    Capt. Henry L. Rey,   1st Lieut. Eugene Rapp,
      2nd Lieut. Louis Arthur Thibaut,
    1st Sergt. Henry Mathien,   2nd Sergt. Armand Daniel,
    3rd Sergt. J. B. Dupre.
    4th   "    Felix Mathien,   5th   "    Lucien Dupre,
    Corpls. Ernest Hewlett,     Frank Delhomme,         D. J. Marine,
       "    Felix Santini,      Celestine Ferrand,      Auguste Campbell,
       "    Narcis Hubert,      Caliste Dupre.

As "muster in."

73RD U. S. C. T. CO. G, 1ST LA. N. G.

    Sergts. Theodule Drinier,   Peter Pascal,            Peter Robin,
       "    Gustave St. Leger,  Armand Le Blanc.
    Corpls. Edward Louis,       Cherry Fournette,        Townsen Lee,
       "    John Thompson,      Perrin Virgile,          William Charity,
       "    John Marshall,      Soloman Fisher.

The above were the non-commissioned officers at "muster out" of Company.

Corporal W. Heath, killed at Port Hudson.

74TH U. S. C. T. CO. G. 2ND LA. N. G.

    Sergts. Thos. Martin,       Etienne Duluc,           Arthur Frilot,
       "    Louis Martin,       J. B. Lavigne,
    Corpls. Martin Forstals,    Emile Duval,             Gustave Ducre,
       "    Joseph Naroce,      Polin Paree,*            Jerome Alugas,
       "    Ernest Butin,       Pierre Jignac.

* Deserted Oct. 5th, 1863.

The above were the non-commissioned officers at "muster in" of company, Oct. 1862.

OTHER REGIMENTS.

Surgeons U. S. Army.--Dr. W. P. Powell,  Dr. A. T. Augusta.
Major, Martin R. Delaney.                Capt., O. S. B. Wall.
Lieuts. 55th Regt.--James M. Trotter,    Chas. L. Mitchell,  W. H. Dupree,
           "        J. F. Shorter.

There were a number of negroes commissioned during the war whose record it has not been possible
to obtain. Quite a number of mulattoes served in white regiments, some as officers; they were
so light in complexion that their true race connection could not be told. This is true of one
of the prominent Ohioans of to-day, who served on the staff of a Major General of volunteers.
There were several among the Pennsylvania troops, and not a few in the New York and Massachusetts
regiments. While lying on a battle-field wounded and exhausted, an officer of the brigade to
which the writer belonged, rode up, passed me his canteen, and enquired if I knew him. A negative
answer was given. "I am Tom Bunting," he replied. "You know me now, don't you? We used to play
together in our boyhood days in Virginia; keep the canteen. I will let your people know about
you." So saying he dashed away to his command; he belonged to a Massachusetts regiment. There
was quite a large number of mulattoes who enlisted under Butler, at New Orleans, and served
in white regiments; this is also true of the confederate army. The writer has an intimate acquaintance
now living in Richmond, Va., who served in a New York Regiment, who, while marching along with
his regiment through Broad street, after the capture of that city, was recognized by his mother,
and by her was pulled from the ranks and embraced. A man who became United States Marshal of
one of the Southern States after the war, was Captain in the 2nd Louisiana Native Guards Regiment.
Numerous instances of this kind could be cited.

FOOTNOTES:

[21] Capt. F. E. Dumas organized a company of his own slaves, and attached it to this regiment.
He was promoted to the rank of Major, and commanded two companies at Pascagoula, Miss., during
the fight. He was a free negro, wealthy, brave and loyal.

CHAPTER V.

DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF.

When Admiral Farragut's fleet anchored at New Orleans, and Butler occupied the city, three
regiments of confederate negro troops were under arms guarding the United States Mint building,
with orders to destroy it before surrendering it to the Yankees. The brigade, however, was
in command of a Creole mulatto, who, instead of carrying out the orders given him, and following
the troops out of the city on their retreat, counter-marched his command and was cut off from
the main body of the army by the Federal forces, to whom they quietly surrendered a few days after.

General Phelps commanded the Federal forces at Carrolton, about seven miles from New Orleans,
the principal point in the cordon around the city. Here the slaves congregated in large numbers,
seeking freedom and protection from their barbarous overseers and masters. Some of these poor
creatures wore irons and chains; some came bleeding from gunshot wounds. General Phelps was
an old abolitionist, and had early conceived the idea that the proper thing to do was for the
government to arm the negroes. Now came his opportunity to act. Hundreds of able-bodied men
were in his camps, ready and willing to fight for their freedom and the preservation of the
Union. The secessionists in that neighborhood complained to General Butler about their negroes
leaving them and going into camp with the Yankees. So numerous were the complaints, that the
General, acting under orders from Washington, and also foreseeing that General Phelps intended
allowing the slaves to gather at his post, issued the following order:

                                    "NEW ORLEANS, May 23, 1862.

     "GENERAL:--You will cause all unemployed persons, black and
     white, to be excluded from your lines.

     "You will not permit either black or white persons to pass
     your lines, not officers and soldiers or belonging to the
     navy of the United States, without a pass from these
     headquarters, except they are brought in under guard as
     captured persons, with information, and those to be examined
     and detained as prisoners of war, if they have been in arms
     against the United States, or dismissed and sent away at
     once, as the case may be. This does not apply to boats
     passing up the river without landing within the lines.

     "Provision dealers and marketmen are to be allowed to pass
     in with provisions and their wares, but not to remain over
     night.

     "Persons having had their permanent residence within your
     lines before the occupation of our troops, are not to be
     considered unemployed persons.

     "Your officers have reported a large number of servants.
     Every officer so reported employing servants will have the
     allowance for servants deducted from his pay-roll.

                      Respectfully, your obedient servant,

                                                B. F. BUTLER.

     "Brig.-Gen. PHELPS, Commanding Camp Parapet."

This struck Gen. Phelps as an inhuman order, though he obeyed it and placed the slaves just
outside of his camp lines. Here the solders, having drank in the spirit of their commander,
cared for the fugitives from slavery. But they continued to come, according to divine appointment,
and their increase prompted Gen. Phelps to write this patriotic, pathetic and eloquent appeal,
knowing it must reach the President:

     "CAMP PARAPET, NEAR CARROLLTON, LA., June 16, 1862.

     "Capt. R. S. DAVIS, Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, New Orleans.
     La.:

     "SIR: I enclose herewith, for the information of the
     major-general commanding the department, a report of Major
     Peck, officer of the day, concerning a large number of
     negroes, of both sexes and all ages, who are lying near our
     pickets, with bag and baggage, as if they had already
     commenced an exodus. Many of these negroes have been sent
     away from one of the neighboring sugar plantations by their
     owner, a Mr. Babilliard La Blanche, who tells them, I am
     informed, that 'the Yankees are king here now, and that they
     must go to their king for food and shelter.'

     "They are of that four millions of our colored subjects who
     have no king or chief, nor in fact any government that can
     secure to them the simplest natural rights. They can not
     even be entered into treaty stipulations with and deported
     to the east, as our Indian tribes have been to the west.
     They have no right to the mediation of a justice of the
     peace or jury between them and chains and lashes. They have
     no right to wages for their labor; no right to the Sabbath;
     no right to the institution of marriage; no right to letters
     or to self-defense. A small class of owners, rendered
     unfeeling, and even unconscious and unreflecting by habit,
     and a large part of them ignorant and vicious, stand between
     them and their government, destroying its sovereignty. This
     government has not the power even to regulate the number of
     lashes that its subjects may receive. It can not say that
     they shall receive thirty-nine instead of forty. To a large
     and growing class of its subjects it can secure neither
     justice, moderation, nor the advantages of Christian
     religion; and if it can not protect all its subjects, it
     can protect none, either black or white.

     "It is nearly a hundred years since our people first
     declared to the nations of the world that all men are born
     free; and still we have not made our declaration good.
     Highly revolutionary measures have since then been adopted
     by the admission of Missouri and the annexation of Texas in
     favor of slavery by the barest majorities of votes, while
     the highly conservative vote of two-thirds has at length
     been attained against slavery, and still slavery
     exists--even, moreover, although two-thirds of the blood in
     the veins of our slaves is fast becoming from our own race.
     If we wait for a larger vote, or until our slaves' blood
     becomes more consanguined still with our own, the danger of
     a violent revolution, over which we can have no control,
     must become more imminent every day. By a course of
     undecided action, determined by no policy but the vague will
     of a war-distracted people, we run the risk of precipitating
     that very revolutionary violence which we seem seeking to
     avoid.

     "Let us regard for a moment the elements of such a
     revolution.

     "Many of the slaves here have been sold away from the border
     States as a punishment, being too refractory to be dealt
     with there in the face of the civilization of the North.
     They come here with the knowledge of the Christian religion,
     with its germs planted and expanding, as it were, in the
     dark, rich soil of their African nature, with feelings of
     relationship with the families from which they came, and
     with a sense of unmerited banishment as culprits, all which
     tends to bring upon them a greater severity of treatment and
     a corresponding disinclination 'to receive punishment'. They
     are far superior beings to their ancestors, who were brought
     from Africa two generations ago, and who occasionally
     rebelled against comparatively less severe punishment than
     is inflicted now. While rising in the scale of Christian
     beings, their treatment is being rendered more severe than
     ever. The whip, the chains, the stocks, and imprisonment are
     no mere fancies here; they are used to any extent to which
     the imagination of civilized man may reach. Many of them are
     as intelligent as their masters, and far more moral, for
     while the slave appeals to the moral law as his vindication,
     clinging to it as to the very horns of the altar of his
     safety and his hope, the master seldom hesitates to wrest
     him from it with violence and contempt. The slave, it is
     true, bears no resentment; he asks for no punishment for his
     master; he simply claims justice for himself; and it is this
     feature of his condition that promises more terror to the
     retribution when it comes. Even now the whites stand
     accursed by their oppression of humanity, being subject to a
     degree of confusion, chaos, and enslavement to error and
     wrong, which northern society could not credit or
     comprehend.

     "Added to the four millions of the colored race whose
     disaffection is increasing even more rapidly than their
     number, there are at least four millions more of the white
     race whose growing miseries will naturally seek
     companionship with those of the blacks. This latter portion
     of southern society has its representatives, who swing from
     the scaffold with the same desperate coolness, though from a
     directly different cause, as that which was manifested by
     John Brown. The traitor Mumford, who swung the other day for
     trampling on the national flag, had been rendered placid and
     indifferent in his desperation by a government that either
     could not or would not secure to its subjects the blessings
     of liberty which that flag imports. The South cries for
     justice from the government as well as the North, though in
     a proud and resentful spirit; and in what manner is that
     justice to be obtained? Is it to be secured by that wretched
     resource of a set of profligate politicians, called
     'reconstruction?' No, it is to be obtained by the abolition
     of slavery, and by no other course.

     "It is vain to deny that the slave system of labor is giving
     shape to the government of the society where it exists, and
     that that government is not republican, either in form or
     spirit. It was through this system that the leading
     conspirators have sought to fasten upon the people an
     aristocracy or a despotism; and it is not sufficient that
     they should be merely defeated in their object, and the
     country be rid of their rebellion; for by our constitution
     we are imperatively obliged to sustain the State against the
     ambition of unprincipled leaders, and secure to them the
     republican form of government. We have positive duties to
     perform, and should hence adopt and pursue a positive,
     decided policy. We have services to render to certain states
     which they cannot perform for themselves. We are in an
     emergency which the framers of the constitution might easily
     have foreseen, and for which they have amply provided.

     "It is clear that the public good requires slavery to be
     abolished; but in what manner is it to be done? The mere
     quiet operation of congressional law can not deal with
     slavery as in its former status before the war, because the
     spirit of law is right reason, and there is no reason in
     slavery. A system so unreasonable as slavery can not be
     regulated by reason. We can hardly expect the several states
     to adopt laws or measures against their own immediate
     interests. We have seen that they will rather find arguments
     for crime than seek measures for abolishing or modifying
     slavery. But there is one principle which is fully
     recognized as a necessity in conditions like ours, and that
     is that the public safety is the supreme law of the State,
     and that amid the clash of arms the laws of peace are
     silent. It is then for our president, the commander-in-chief
     of our armies, to declare the abolition of slavery, leaving
     it to the wisdom of congress to adopt measures to meet the
     consequences. This is the usual course pursued by a general
     or by a military power. That power gives orders affecting
     complicated interests and millions of property, leaving it
     to the other functions of government to adjust and regulate
     the effects produced. Let the president abolish slavery, and
     it would be an easy matter for congress, through a
     well-regulated system of apprenticeship, to adopt safe
     measures for effecting a gradual transition from slavery to
     freedom.

     "The existing system of labor in Louisiana is unsuited to
     the age; and by the intrusion of the national forces it
     seems falling to pieces. It is a system of mutual jealousy
     and suspicion between the master and the man--a system of
     violence, immorality and vice. The fugitive negro tells us
     that our presence renders his condition worse with his
     master than it was before, and that we offer no alleviation
     in return. The system is impolitic, because it offers but
     one stimulent to labor and effort, viz.: the lash, when
     another, viz.: money, might be added with good effect. Fear,
     and the other low and bad qualities of the slave, are
     appealed to, but never the good. The relation, therefore,
     between capital and labor, which ought to be generous and
     confiding, is darkling, suspicious, unkindly, full of
     reproachful threats, and without concord or peace. This
     condition of things renders the interests of society a prey
     to politicians. Politics cease to be practical or useful.

     "The questions that ought to have been discussed in the late
     extraordinary convention of Louisiana, are: First, What
     ought the State of Louisiana to do to adopt her ancient
     system of labor to the present advanced spirit of the age?
     And Second, How can the State be assisted by the general
     government in effecting the change? But instead of this, the
     only question before that body was how to vindicate slavery
     by flogging the Yankees!

     "Compromises hereafter are not to be made with politicians,
     but with sturdy labor and the right to work. The interests
     of workingmen resent political trifling. Our political
     education, shaped almost entirely to the interest of
     slavery, has been false and vicious in the extreme, and it
     must be corrected with as much suddenness, almost, as that
     with which Salem witchcraft came to an end. The only
     question that remains to decide is how the change shall take
     place.

     "We are not without examples and precedents in the history
     of the past. The enfranchisement of the people of Europe has
     been, and is still going on, through the instrumentality of
     military service; and by this means our slaves might be
     raised in the scale of civilization and prepared for
     freedom. Fifty regiments might be raised among them at once,
     which could be employed in this climate to preserve order,
     and thus prevent the necessity of retrenching our liberties,
     as we should do by a large army exclusively of whites. For
     it is evident that a considerable army of whites would give
     stringency to our government, while an army, partly of
     blacks, would naturally operate in favor of freedom and
     against those influences which at present most endanger our
     liberties. At the end of five years they could be sent to
     Africa, and their places filled with new enlistments.

     "There is no practical evidence against the effects of
     immediate abolition, even if there is not in its favor. I
     have witnessed the sudden abolition of flogging at will in
     the army, and of legalized flogging in the navy, against the
     prejudice-warped judgments of both, and, from the beneficial
     effects there, I have nothing to fear from the immediate
     abolition of slavery. I fear, rather, the violent
     consequences from a continuance of the evil. But should such
     an act devastate the whole State of Louisiana, and render
     the whole soil here but the mere passage-way of the fruits
     of the enterprise and industry of the Northwest, it would be
     better for the country at large than it is now as the seat
     of disaffection and rebellion.

     "When it is remembered that not a word is found in our
     constitution sanctioning the buying and selling of human
     beings, a shameless act which renders our country the
     disgrace of Christendom, and worse, in this respect, even
     than Africa herself, we should have less dread of seeing the
     degrading traffic stopped at once and forever. Half wages
     are already virtually paid for slave labor in the system of
     tasks which, in an unwilling spirit of compromise, most of
     the slave states have already been compelled to adopt. At
     the end of five years of apprenticeship, or of fifteen at
     farthest, full wages could be paid to the enfranchised negro
     race, to the double advantage of both master and man. This
     is just; for we now hold the slaves of Louisiana by the same
     tenure that the State can alone claim them, viz: by the
     original right of conquest. We have so far conquered them
     that a proclamation setting them free, coupled with offers
     of protection, would devastate every plantation in the
     State.

     "In conclusion, I may state that Mr. La Blanche is, as I am
     informed, a descendant from one of the oldest families of
     Louisiana. He is wealthy and a man of standing, and his act
     in sending away his negroes to our lines, with their clothes
     and furniture, appears to indicate the convictions of his
     own mind as to the proper logical consequences and
     deductions that should follow from the present relative
     status of the two contending parties. He seems to be
     convinced that the proper result of the conflict is the
     manumission of the slave, and he may be safely regarded in
     this respect as a representative man of the State. I so
     regard him myself, and thus do I interpret his action,
     although my camp now contains some of the highest symbols of
     secessionism, which have been taken by a party of the
     Seventh Vermont volunteers from his residence.

     "Meantime his slaves, old and young, little ones and all,
     are suffering from exposure and uncertainty as to their
     future condition. Driven away by their master, with threats
     of violence if they return, and with no decided welcome or
     reception from us, what is to be their lot? Considerations
     of humanity are pressing for an immediate solution of their
     difficulties; and they are but a small portion of their race
     who have sought, and are still seeking, our pickets and our
     military stations, declaring that they can not and will not
     any longer serve their masters, and that all they want is
     work and protection from us. In such a state of things, the
     question occurs as to my own action in the case. I cannot
     return them to their masters, who not unfrequently come in
     search of them, for I am, fortunately, prohibited by an
     article of war from doing that, even if my own nature did
     not revolt at it. I can not receive them, for I have neither
     work, shelter, nor the means or plan of transporting them to
     Hayti, or of making suitable arrangements with their masters
     until they can be provided for.

     "It is evident that some plan, some policy, or some system
     is necessary on the part of the government, without which
     the agent can do nothing, and all his efforts are rendered
     useless and of no effect. This is no new condition in which
     I find myself; it is my experience during the some
     twenty-five years of my public life as a military officer of
     the government. The new article of war recently adopted by
     congress, rendering it criminal in an officer of the army to
     return fugitives from injustice, is the first support that I
     have ever felt from the government in contending against
     those slave influences which are opposed to its character
     and to its interests. But the mere refusal to return
     fugitives does not now meet the case. A public agent in the
     present emergency must be invested with wider and more
     positive powers than this, or his services will prove as
     valueless to the country as they are unsatisfactory to
     himself.

     "Desiring this communication to be laid before the
     president, and leaving my commission at his disposal, I have
     the honor to remain, sir,

                "Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
                        J. W. PHELPS, Brigadier-General."

On the day on which he received this letter, Gen. Butler forwarded to Washington this dispatch:

                            "NEW ORLEANS, LA., June 18, 1862.

     "Hon. E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War:

     "SIR:--Since my last dispatch was written, I have received
     the accompanying report from General Phelps.

     "It is not my duty to enter into a discussion of the
     questions which it presents.

     "I desire, however, to state the information of Mr. La
     Blanche, given me by his friends and neighbors, and also
     Jack La Blanche, his slave, who seems to be the leader of
     this party of negroes. Mr. La Blanche I have not seen. He,
     however, claims to be loyal, and to have taken no part in
     the war, but to have lived quietly on his plantation, some
     twelve miles above New Orleans, on the opposite side of the
     river. He has a son in the secession army, whose uniform and
     equipments, &c., are the symbols of secession of which
     General Phelps speaks. Mr. La Blanche's house was searched
     by the order of General Phelps, for arms and contraband of
     war, and his neighbors say that his negroes were told that
     they were free if they would come to the general's camp.

     "That thereupon the negroes, under the lead of Jack,
     determined to leave, and for that purpose crowded into a
     small boat which, from overloading, was in danger of
     swamping.

     "La Blanche then told his negroes that if they were
     determined to go, they would be drowned, and he would hire
     them a large boat to put them across the river, and that
     they might have their furniture if they would go and leave
     his plantation and crop to ruin.

     "They decided to go, and La Blanche did all a man could to
     make that going safe.

     "The account of General Phelps is the negro side of the
     story; that above given is the story of Mr. La Blanche's
     neighbors, some of whom I know to be loyal men.

     "An order against negroes being allowed in camp is the
     reason they are outside.

     "Mr. La Blanche is represented to be a humane man, and did
     not consent to the 'exodus' of his negroes.

     "General Phelps, I believe, intends making this a test case
     for the policy of the government. I wish it might be so, for
     the difference of our action upon this subject is a source
     of trouble. I respect his honest sincerity of opinion, but I
     am a soldier, bound to carry out the wishes of my government
     so long as I hold its commission, and I understand that
     policy to be the one I am pursuing. I do not feel at liberty
     to pursue any other. If the policy of the government is
     nearly that I sketched in my report upon the subject and
     that which I have ordered in this department, then the
     services of General Phelps are worse than useless here. If
     the views set forth in his report are to obtain, then he is
     invaluable, for his whole soul is in it, and he is a good
     soldier of large experience, and no braver man lives. I beg
     to leave the whole question with the president, with perhaps
     the needless assurance that his wishes shall be loyalty
     followed, were they not in accordance with my own, as I have
     now no right to have any upon the subject.

     "I write in haste, as the steamer 'Mississippi' is awaiting
     this dispatch.

     "Awaiting the earliest possible instructions, I have the
     honor to be,

                        "Your most obedient servant,

                        "B. F. BUTLER, Major General Commanding."

Gen. Phelps waited about six weeks for a reply, but none came. Meanwhile the negroes continued
to gather at his camp. He said, in regard to not receiving an answer, "I was left to the inference
that silence gives consent, and proceeded therefore to take such decided measures as appeared
best calculated, to me, to dispose of the difficulty." Accordingly he made the following requisition
upon headquarters:

                          "CAMP PARAPET, LA., July 30, 1862.

     "Captain R. S. DAVIS, A. A. A. General, New Orleans, La.:

     "SIR:--I enclose herewith requisitions for arms,
     accouterments, clothing, camp and garrison equipage, &c.,
     for three regiments of Africans, which I propose to raise
     for the defense of this point. The location is swampy and
     unhealthy, and our men are dying at the rate of two or three
     a day.

     "The southern loyalists are willing, as I understand, to
     furnish their share of the tax for the support of the war;
     but they should also furnish their quota of men, which they
     have not thus far done. An opportunity now offers of
     supplying the deficiency; and it is not safe to neglect
     opportunities in war. I think that, with the proper
     facilities, I could raise the three regiments proposed in a
     short time. Without holding out any inducements, or offering
     any reward, I have now upward of three hundred Africans
     organized into five companies, who are all willing and ready
     to show their devotion to our cause in any way that it may
     be put to the test. They are willing to submit to anything
     rather than to slavery.

     Society in the South seems to be on the point of
     dissolution; and the best way of preventing the African from
     becoming instrumental in a general state of anarchy, is to
     enlist him in the cause of the Republic. If we reject his
     services, any petty military chieftain, by offering him
     freedom, can have them for the purpose of robbery and
     plunder. It is for the interests of the South, as well of
     the North, that the African should be permitted to offer his
     block for the temple of freedom. Sentiments unworthy of the
     man of the present day--worthy only of another Cain--could
     alone prevent such an offer from being accepted.

     I would recommend that the cadet graduates of the present
     year should be sent to South Carolina and this point to
     organize and discipline our African levies, and that the
     more promising non-commissioned officers and privates of the
     army be appointed as company officers to command them.
     Prompt and energetic efforts in this direction would
     probably accomplish more toward a speedy termination of the
     war, and an early restoration of peace and unity, than any
     other course which could be adopted.

This reply was received:

                                     NEW ORLEANS, July 31, 1862.

     "GENERAL:--The general commanding wishes you to employ the
     contrabands in and about your camp in cutting down all the
     trees, &c., between your lines and the lake, and in forming
     abatis, according to the plan agreed upon between you and
     Lieutenant Weitzel when he visited you some time since. What
     wood is not needed by you is much needed in this city. For
     this purpose I have ordered the quartermaster to furnish you
     with axes, and tents for the contrabands to be quartered in.

       "I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

                          "By order of Major-General BUTLER.

        "R. S. DAVIS, Capt. and A. A. A. G.

     "To Brigadier-General J. W. PHELPS, Camp Parapet."

General Butler's effort to turn the attention of Gen. Phelps to the law of Congress recently
passed was of no avail, that officer was determined in his policy of warring on the enemy;
but finding General Butler as firm in his policy of leniency, and knowing of his strong pro-slavery
sentiments prior to the war,--notwithstanding his "contraband" order at Fortress Monroe,--General
Phelps felt as though he would be humiliated if he departed from his own policy and became
what he regarded as a slave-driver, therefore he determined to resign. He replied to General
Butler as follows:

                        "CAMP PARAPET, LA., July 31, 1862.

     "Captain R. S. DAVIS, A. A. A. General, New Orleans, La.:

     "SIR:--The communication from your office of this date,
     signed, 'By order of Major-General Butler,' directing me to
     employ the 'contrabands' in and about my camp in cutting
     down all the trees between my lines and the lake, etc., has
     just been received.

     "In reply, I must state that while I am willing to prepare
     African regiments for the defense of the government against
     its assailants, I am not willing to become the mere
     slave-driver which you propose, having no qualifications in
     that way. I am, therefore, under the necessity of tendering
     the resignation of my commission as an officer of the army
     of the United States, and respectfully request a leave of
     absence until it is accepted, in accordance with paragraph
     29, page 12, of the general regulations.

     "While I am writing, at half-past eight o'clock P. M., a
     colored man is brought in by one of the pickets who has just
     been wounded in the side by a charge of shot, which he says
     was fired at him by one of a party of three slave-hunters or
     guerillas, a mile or more from our line of sentinels. As it
     is some distance from the camp to the lake, the party of
     wood-choppers which you have directed will probably need a
     considerable force to guard them against similar attacks.

     "I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

                          "J. W. PHELPS, Brigadier-General."

Phelps was one of Butler's most trusted commanders, and the latter endeavored, but in vain,
to have him reconsider his resignation. General Butler wrote him:

                            NEW ORLEANS, August, 2, 1862.

     "GENERAL:--I was somewhat surprised to receive your
     resignation for the reasons stated.

     "When you were put in command at Camp Parapet, I sent
     Lieutenant Weitzel, my chief engineer, to make a
     reconnoissance of the lines of Carrollton, and I understand
     it was agreed between you and the engineer that a removal
     of the wood between Lake Pontchartrain and the right of your
     intrenchment was a necessary military precaution. The work
     could not be done at that time because of the stage of water
     and the want of men. But now both water and men concur. You
     have five hundred Africans organized into companies, you
     write me. This work they are fitted to do. It must either be
     done by them or my soldiers, now drilled and disciplined.
     You have said the location is unhealthy for the soldier; it
     is not to the negro; is it not best that these unemployed
     Africans should do this labor? My attention is specially
     called to this matter at the present time, because there are
     reports of demonstrations to be made on your lines by the
     rebels, and in my judgment it is a matter of necessary
     precaution thus to clear the right of your line, so that you
     can receive the proper aid from the gunboats on the lake,
     besides preventing the enemy from having cover. To do this
     the negroes ought to be employed; and in so employing them I
     see no evidence of 'slave-driving' or employing you as a
     'slave-driver.'

     "The soldiers of the Army of the Potomac did this very thing
     last summer in front of Arlington Heights; are the negroes
     any better than they?

     "Because of an order to do this necessary thing to protect
     your front, threatened by the enemy, you tender your
     resignation and ask immediate leave of absence. I assure you
     I did not expect this, either from your courage, your
     patriotism, or your good sense. To resign in the face of an
     enemy has not been the highest plaudit to a soldier,
     especially when the reason assigned is that he is ordered to
     do that which a recent act of congress has specially
     authorized a military commander to do, i. e., employ the
     Africans to do the necessary work about a camp or upon a
     fortification.

     "General, your resignation will not be accepted by me, leave
     of absence will not be granted, and you will see to it that
     my orders, thus necessary for the defense of the city, are
     faithfully and diligently executed, upon the responsibility
     that a soldier in the field owes to his superior. I will see
     that all proper requisitions for the food, shelter, and
     clothing of these negroes so at work are at once filled by
     the proper departments. You will also send out a proper
     guard to protect the laborers against the guerilla force, if
     any, that may be in the neighborhood.

       "I am your obedient servant,

              "BENJ. F. BUTLER, Major-General Commanding.

     "Brigadier-General J. W. PHELPS, Commanding at Camp Parapet."

On the same day, General Butler wrote again to General Phelps:

                                  "NEW ORLEANS, August 2, 1862.

     "GENERAL:--By the act of congress, as I understand it, the
     president of the United States alone has the authority to
     employ Africans in arms as a part of the military forces of
     the United States.

     "Every law up to this time raising volunteer or militia
     forces has been opposed to their employment. The president
     has not as yet indicated his purpose to employ the Africans
     in arms.

     "The arms, clothing, and camp equipage which I have here for
     the Louisiana volunteers, is, by the letter of the secretary
     of war, expressly limited to white soldiers, so that I have
     no authority to divert them, however much I may desire so to
     do.

     "I do not think you are empowered to organize into companies
     negroes, and drill them as a military organization, as I am
     not surprised, but unexpectedly informed you have done. I
     cannot sanction this course of action as at present advised,
     specially when we have need of the services of the blacks,
     who are being sheltered upon the outskirts of your camp, as
     you will see by the orders for their employment sent you by
     the assistant adjutant-general.

     "I will send your application to the president, but in the
     mean time you must desist from the formation of any negro
     military organization.

General Phelps' resignation was accepted by the Government. He received notification of the
fact on the 8th of September and immediately prepared to return to his farm in Vermont. In
parting with his officers, who were, like his soldiers, much attached to him, he said: "And
now, with earnest wishes for your welfare, and aspirations for the success of the great cause
for which you are here, I bid you good-bye." Says Parton:

     "When at length, the government had arrived at a negro
     policy, and was arming slaves, the president offered General
     Phelps a major-general's commission. He replied, it is said,
     that he would willingly accept the commission if it were
     dated back to the day of his resignation, so as to carry
     with it an approval of his course at Camp Parapet. This was
     declined, and General Phelps remains in retirement. I
     suppose the president felt that an indorsement of General
     Phelps' conduct would imply a censure of General Butler,
     whose conduct every candid person, I think, must admit, was
     just, forbearing, magnanimous."

General Butler was carrying out the policy of the Government at that time, but it was not long
before he found it necessary to inaugurate a policy of his own for the safety of his command.
On the 5th of August Breckenridge assaulted Baton Rouge, the capital of the State, which firmly
convinced General Butler of the necessity of raising troops to defend New Orleans. He had somewhat
realized his situation in July and appealed to the "home authorities" for reinforcements, but
none could be sent. Still, the Secretary of War said to him, in reply to his application: "New
Orleans must be held at all hazards."

With New Orleans threatened and no hope of reinforcement, General Butler, on the 22d day of
August, before General Phelps had retired to private life, was obliged to accept the policy
of arming negroes. He issued the following order:

            "HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF,
     GENERAL ORDERS          "NEW ORLEANS, August 22, 1862.
        NO. 63.

     "Whereas on the 23d day of April, in the year eighteen
     hundred and sixty-one, at a public meeting of the free
     colored population of the city of New Orleans, a military
     organization, known as the "Native Guards" (colored,) had
     its existence, which military organization was duly and
     legally enrolled as a part of the militia of the State, its
     officers being commissioned by Thomas O. Moore, Governor and
     Commander-in-Chief of the militia of the State of Louisiana,
     in the form following, that is to say:

                            "'THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
                              [Seal of the State.]

     "'By Thomas Overton Moore, Governor of the State of
     Louisiana, and commander-in-chief of the militia thereof.

     "'In the name and by the authority of the State of
     Louisiana: Know ye that ----- ----, having been duly and
     legally elected captain of the "Native Guards" (colored,)
     1st division of the Militia of Louisiana, to serve for the
     term of the war,

     "'I do hereby appoint and commission him captain as
     aforesaid, to take rank as such, from the 2d day of May,
     eighteen hundred and sixty-one.

     "'He is, therefore, carefully and diligently to discharge
     the duties of his office by doing and performing all manner
     of things thereto belonging. And I do strictly charge and
     require all officers, non-commissioned officers and privates
     under his command, to be obedient to his orders as captain;
     and he is to observe and follow such orders and directions,
     from time to time, as he shall receive from me, or the
     future Governor of the State of Louisiana, or other superior
     officers, according to the Rules and Articles of War, and in
     conformity to law.

     "'In testimony whereof, I have caused these letters to be
     made patent, and the seal of the State to be hereunto
     annexed.

     "'Given under my hand, at the city of Baton Rouge, on the
     second day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand
     eight hundred and sixty-one.

     [L.S.]                    [Signed,] THOS. O. MOORE.
     "'By the Governor:
       [Signed,]                "'P. D. Hardy, Secretary of State.
                      [Endorsed.]

     "'I, Maurice Grivot, Adjutant and Inspector General of the
     State of Louisiana, do hereby certify that ---- ----, named
     in the within commission, did, on the second day of May, in
     the year 1861, deposit in my office his written acceptance
     of the office to which he is commissioned, and his oath of
     office taken according to law.

                                      [Signed,] "'M. GRIVOT,
                        Adjutant and Inspector General, La.'

     "And whereas, said military organization elicited praise and
     respect, and was complimented in General Orders for its
     patriotism and loyalty, and was ordered to continue during
     the war, in the words following:

     "'HEADQUARTERS LOUISIANA MILITIA,

     "'Order No. 426.]     "'Adjutant General's Office, March 24, 1862.

     "'I.--The Governor and Commander-in-Chief, relying
     implicitly upon the loyalty of the free colored population
     of the city and State for the protection of their homes,
     their property, and for Southern rights, from the pollution
     of a ruthless invader, and believing that the military
     organization which existed prior to the 15th of February,
     1862, and elicited praise and respect for the patriotic
     motives which prompted it, should exist for and during the
     war, calls upon them to maintain their organization, and to
     hold themselves prepared for such orders as may be
     transmitted to them.

     "'II.--The colonel commanding will report without delay to
     Major General Lewis, commanding State militia.

                "'By order of THOS. O. MOORE, Governor.

     [Signed,] M. GRIVOT, Adjutant General.'

     "And whereas, said military organization, by the same order,
     was directed to report to Major-General Lewis for service,
     but did not leave the city of New Orleans when he did:

     "Now, therefore, the Commanding General, believing that a
     large portion of this militia force of the State of
     Louisiana are willing to take service in the volunteer
     forces of the United States, and be enrolled and organized
     to 'defend their homes from 'ruthless invaders;' to protect
     their wives and children and kindred from wrong and outrage;
     to shield their property from being seized by bad men; and
     to defend the flag of their native country as their fathers
     did under Jackson at Chalmette against Packenham and his
     myrmidons, carrying the black flag of 'beauty and booty;'

     "Appreciating their motives, relying upon their 'well-known
     loyalty and patriotism,' and with 'praise and respect' for
     these brave men--it is ordered that all the members of the
     'Native Guards' aforesaid, and all other free colored
     citizens recognized by the first and late governor and
     authorities of the State of Louisiana as a portion of the
     militia of the State, who shall enlist in the volunteer
     service of the United States, shall be duly organized by the
     appointment of proper officers, and accepted, paid,
     equipped, armed and rationed as are other volunteer troops
     of the United States, subject to the approval of the
     President of the United States. All such persons are
     required at once to report themselves at the Touro Charity
     Building, Front Levee St., New Orleans, where proper
     officers will muster them into the service of the United
     States.

              "By command of Major General Butler:

                          "R. S. DAVIS, Capt. and A. A. A. G."

Notwithstanding the harsh treatment they had been receiving from Military-Governor Shepley
and the Provost Guard, the rendezvous designated was the scene of a busy throng the next day.
Thousands of men were enlisted during the first week, and in fourteen days a regiment was organized.
The first regiment's line officers were colored, and the field officers were white. Those who
made up this regiment were not all free negroes by more than half. Any negro who would swear
that he was free, if physically good, was accepted, and of the many thousand slave fugitives
in the city from distant plantations, hundreds found their way into Touro building and ultimately
into the ranks of the three regiments formed at that building. The second, like the first,
had all colored line officers; the third was officered regardless of color. This was going
beyond the line laid down by General Phelps. He proposed that white men should take command
of these troops exclusively. By November these three regiments were in the field, where in
course of time they often met their former masters face to face and exchanged shots with them.
The pro-slavery men of the North and their newspapers endeavored to make the soldiers in the
field believe that the negroes would not fight; while not only the papers and the soldiers,
but many officers, especially those from the West Point Academy, denounced General Butler for
organizing the regiments. General Weitzel, to whose command these regiments were assigned in
an expedition up the river, objected to them, and asked Butler to relieve him of the command
of the expedition. Butler wrote him in reply:

     "You say that in these organizations you have no confidence.
     As your reading must have made you aware, General Jackson
     entertained a different opinion upon that subject. It was
     arranged between the commanding general and yourself, that
     the colored regiments should be employed in guarding the
     railroad. You don't complain, in your report, that they
     either failed in this duty, or that they have acted
     otherwise than correctly and obediently to the commands of
     their officers, or that they have committed any outrage or
     pillage upon the inhabitants. The general was aware of your
     opinion, that colored men will not fight. You have failed to
     show, by the conduct of these free men, so far, anything to
     sustain that opinion. And the general cannot see why you
     should decline the command, especially as you express a
     willingness to go forward to meet the only organized enemy
     with your brigade alone, without farther support. The
     commanding general cannot see how the fact that they are
     guarding your line of communication by railroad, can weaken
     your defense. He must, therefore, look to the other reasons
     stated by you, for an explanation of your declining the
     command.

     "You say that since the arrival of the negro regiment you
     have seen symptoms of a servile insurrection. But as the
     only regiment that arrived there got there as soon as your
     own command, of course the appearance of such symptoms is
     since their arrival.

     "Have you not mistaken the cause? Is it the arrival of a
     negro regiment, or is it the arrival of United States
     troops, carrying by the act of congress freedom to this
     servile race? Did you expect to march into that country,
     drained, as you say it is, by conscription of all its
     able-bodied white men, without leaving the negroes free to
     show symptoms of servile insurrection? Does not this state
     of things arise from the very fact of war itself? You are in
     a country where now the negroes outnumber the whites ten to
     one, and these whites are in rebellion against the
     government, or in terror seeking its protection. Upon
     reflection, can you doubt that the same state of things
     would have arisen without the presence of a colored
     regiment? Did you not see symptoms of the same things upon
     the plantations here upon our arrival, although, under much
     less favorable circumstances for revolt?

     "You say that the prospect of such an insurrection is
     heart-rending, and that you cannot be responsible for it.
     The responsibility rests upon those who have begun and
     carried out this war, and who have stopped at no barbarity,
     at no act of outrage, upon the citizens and soldiers of the
     United States. You have forwarded me the records of a
     pretended court-martial, showing that seven men of one of
     your regiments, who enlisted here in the Eighth Vermont, who
     had surrendered themselves prisoners of war, were in cold
     blood murdered, and, as certain information shows me,
     required to dig their own graves! You are asked if this is
     not an occurrence as heart-rending as a prospective servile
     insurrection.

     "The question is now to be met, whether, in a hostile,
     rebellious part of the state, where this very murder has
     been committed by the militia, you are to stop in the
     operations of the field to put down servile insurrection,
     because the men and women are terror-stricken? Whenever was
     it heard before that a victorious general, in an
     unsurrendered province, stopped in his course for the
     purpose of preventing the rebellious inhabitants of that
     province from destroying each other, or refuse to take
     command of a conquered province lest he should be made
     responsible for their self-destruction?

     "As a military question, perhaps, the more terror-stricken
     the inhabitants are that are left in your rear, the more
     safe will be your lines of communication. You say there have
     appeared before your eyes the very facts, in terror-stricken
     women and children and men, which you had before
     contemplated in theory. Grant it. But is not the remedy to
     be found in the surrender of the neighbors, fathers,
     brothers, and sons of the terror-stricken women and
     children, who are now in arms against the government within
     twenty miles of you? And when that is done, and you have no
     longer to fear from these organized forces, and they have
     returned peaceably to their homes, you will be able to use
     the full power of your troops to insure your safety from the
     so much feared (by them, not by you) servile insurrection.

     "If you desire, you can send a flag of truce to the
     commander of these forces, embracing these views, and
     placing upon him the responsibility which belongs to him.
     Even that course will not remove it from you, for upon you
     it has never rested. Say to them, that if all armed
     opposition to the authority of the United States shall cease
     in Louisiana, on the west bank of the river, you are
     authorized by the commanding general to say, that the same
     protection against negro or other violence will be afforded
     that part of Louisiana that has been in the part already in
     the possession of the United States. If that is refused,
     whatever may ensue is upon them, and not upon you or upon
     the United States. You will have done all that is required
     of a brave, humane man, to avert from these deluded people
     the horrible consequences of their insane war upon the
     government. * * * *

     "Consider this case. General Bragg is at liberty to ravage
     the houses of our brethren of Kentucky because the Union
     army of Louisiana are protecting his wife and his home
     against his negroes. Without that protection he would have
     to come back to take care of his wife, his home and his
     negroes. It is understood that Mrs. Bragg is one of the
     terrified women of whom you speak in your report.

     "This subject is not for the first time under the
     consideration of the commanding general. When in command of
     the Department of Annapolis, in May, 1861, he was asked to
     protect a community against the consequences of a servile
     insurrection. He replied, that when that community laid down
     its arms, and called upon him for protection, he would give
     it, because from that moment between them and him war would
     cease. The same principle initiated there will govern his
     and your actions now; and you will afford such protection as
     soon as the community through its organized rulers shall ask
     it.

     " * * * * In the mean time, these colored regiments of free
     men, raised by the authority of the president, and approved
     by him as the commander-in-chief of the army, must be
     commanded by the officers of the army of the United States,
     like any other regiment."

General Butler continued General Weitzel in command but placed the negroes under another officer.
However, General Weitzel; like thousands of others, changed his mind in regard to the colored
troops. "If he was not convinced by General Butler's reasoning," says Parton, "he must have
been convinced by what he saw of the conduct of those very colored regiments at Port Hudson,
where he himself gave such a glorious example of prudence and gallantry."

Notwithstanding these troops did good service, it did not soften or remove very much of the
prejudice at the North against the negro soldiers, nor in the ranks of the army. Many incidents
might be cited to show the feeling of bitterness against them.[22] However, General Butler's
example was followed very soon by every officer in command, and by the time the President's
Emancipation Proclamation was issued there were not less than 10,000 negroes armed and equipped
along the Mississippi river. Of course the Government knew nothing of this.(?) Not only armed,
but some of them had been in skirmishes with the enemy. That as a Phalanx they were invaluable
in crushing the rebellion, let their acts of heroism tell. In the light of history and of their
own deeds, it can be said that in courage, patriotism and dash, they were second to no troops,
either in ancient or modern armies. They were enlisted after rigid scrutiny, and the examination
of every man by competent surgeons. Their acquaintance with the country in which they marched,
encamped and fought, made them in many instances superior to the white troops. Then to strengthen
their valor and tenacity, each soldier of the Phalanx knew when he heard the long roll beat
to arms, and the bugle sound the charge, that they were not to go forth to meet those who regarded
them as opponents in arms, but who met them as a man in his last desperate effort for life
would meet demons; they knew, also, that there was no reserve--no reinforcements behind to
support them when they went to battle; their alternative was life or death. It was the consciousness
of this fact that made the black phalanx a wall of adamant to the enemy.

The not unnatural willingness of the white soldiers to allow the negro troops to stop the bullets
that they would otherwise have to receive was shown in General Bank's Red River Campaign. At
Pleasant Grove, Dickey's black brigade prevented a slaughter of the Union troops. The black
Phalanx were represented there by a brigade attached to the first division of the 19th Corps.
When the confederates routed the army under Banks at Sabine Cross Roads, below Mansfield, they
drove it for several hours toward Pleasant Grove, despite the ardor of the combined forces
of Banks and Franklin. It became apparent that unless the confederates could be checked at
this point, all was lost. General Emory prepared for the emergency on the western edge of a
wood, with an open field sloping toward Mansfield. Here General Dwight formed a brigade of
the black Phalanx across the road. Hardly was the line formed when out came the gallant foe
driving 10,000 men before them. Flushed with two days' victory, they came charging at double
quick time, but the Phalanx held its fire until the enemy was close upon them, and then poured
a deadly volley into the ranks of the exultant foe, stopping them short and mowing them down
like grass. The confederates recoiled, and now began a fight such as was always fought when
the Southerners became aware that black soldiers were in front of them, and for an hour and
a half they fought at close quarters, ceasing only at night. Every charge of the enemy was
repulsed by the steady gallantry of General Emory's brigade and the black Phalanx, who saved
the army from annihilation against a foe numbering three to one. During this memorable campaign
the Phalanx more than once met the enemy and accepted the face of their black flag declarations.
The confederates knew full well that every man of the Phalanx would fight to the last; they
had learned that long before.

As early as June, 1863, General Grant was compelled, in order to show a bold front to Gens.
Pemberton and Johnston at the same time, while besieging Vicksburg, to draw nearly all the
troops from Milliken's Bend to his support, leaving three infantry regiments of the black Phalanx
and a small force of white cavalry to hold this, to him an all important post. Milliken's Bend
was well fortified, and with a proper garrison was in condition to stand a siege. Brigadier-General
Dennis was in command, and the troops consisted of the 9th and 11th Louisiana Regiments, the
1st Mississippi and a small detachment of white cavalry, in all about 1,400 men, raw recruits.
General Dennis looking upon the place more as a station for organizing and drilling the Phalanx,
had made no particular arrangements in anticipation of an attack. He was surprised, therefore,
when a force of 3,000 men, under General Henry McCulloch, from the interior of Louisiana, attacked
and drove his pickets and two companies of the 23d Iowa Cavalry, (white) up to the breastworks
of the Bend. The movement was successful, however, and the confederates, holding the ground,
rested for the night, with the expectation of marching into the fortifications in the morning,
to begin a massacre, whether a resistance should be shown them or not. The knowledge this little
garrison had of what the morrow would bring it, doubtless kept the soldiers awake, preparing
to meet the enemy and their own fate. About 3 o'clock, in the early grey of the morning, the
confederate line was formed just outside of the intrenchments; suddenly with fixed bayonets
the men came rushing over the works, driving everything before them and shouting, "No quarter!
No quarter to negroes or their officers!" In a moment the blacks formed and met them, and now
the battle began in earnest, hand to hand. The gunboats "Choctaw" and "Lexington" also came
up as the confederates were receiving the bayonets and the bullets of the Unionists, and lent
material assistance. The attacking force had flanked the works and was pouring in a deadly,
enfilading musketry fire. The defenders fell back out of the way of the gunboat's shells, but
finally went forward again with what was left of their 150 white allies, and drove the enemy
before them and out of the captured works. One division of the enemy's troops hesitated to
leave a redoubt, when a company of brave black men dashed forward at double-quick time and
engaged them. The enemy stood his ground, and soon the rattling bayonets rang out amid the
thunders of the gunboats and the shouts of enraged men; but they were finally driven out, and
their ranks thinned by the "Choctaw" as they went over the works. The news reached General
Grant and he immediately dispatched General Mower's brigade with orders to re-enforce Dennis
and drive the confederates beyond the Tensas river.

A battle can be best described by one who observed it. Captain Miller, who not only was an
eye-witness, but participated in the Milliken's Bend fight, writes as follows:

     "We were attacked here on June 7, about three o'clock in the
     morning, by a brigade of Texas troops, about two thousand
     five hundred in number. We had about six hundred men to
     withstand them, five hundred of them negroes. I commanded
     Company I, Ninth Louisiana. We went into the fight with
     thirty-three men. I had sixteen killed, eleven badly
     wounded, and four slightly. I was wounded slightly on the
     head, near the right eye, with a bayonet, and had a bayonet
     run through my right hand, near the forefinger; that will
     account for this miserable style of penmanship.

     "Our regiments had about three hundred men in the fight. We
     had one colonel wounded, four captains wounded, two first
     and two second lieutenants killed, five lieutenants wounded,
     and three white orderlies killed, and one wounded in the
     hand, and two fingers taken off. The list of killed and
     wounded officers comprised nearly all the officers present
     with the regiment, a majority of the rest being absent
     recruiting."

     "We had about fifty men killed in the regiment and eighty
     wounded; so you can judge of what part of the fight my
     company sustained. I never felt more grieved and sick at
     heart, than when I saw how my brave soldiers had been
     slaughtered,--one with six wounds, all the rest with two or
     three, none less than two wounds. Two of my colored
     sergeants were killed; both brave, noble men, always prompt,
     vigilant, and ready for the fray. I never more wish to hear
     the expression, 'The niggers won't fight.' Come with me, a
     hundred yards from where I sit, and I can show you the
     wounds that cover the bodies of sixteen as brave, loyal, and
     patriotic soldiers as ever drew bead on a rebel.

     "The enemy charged us so close that we fought with our
     bayonets, hand to hand. I have six broken bayonets to show
     how bravely my men fought. The Twenty-third Iowa joined my
     company on the right; and I declare truthfully that they had
     all fled before our regiment fell back, as we were all
     compelled to do.

     "Under command of Col. Page, I led the Ninth and Eleventh
     Louisiana when the rifle-pits were retaken and held by our
     troops, our two regiments doing the work.

