The Queen has to acknowledge the receipt of several letters from Lord John Russell. She was
pleased to see that the Debates have been brought to such a satisfactory conclusion, all the
propositions of the Government having passed with such good majorities. The Queen must mention
to Lord John that she was a little shocked at Sir Charles Wood in his speech upon the Commission
of Inquiry, designating the future Government, and selecting Lord George Bentinck, Mr Disraeli(!),
and Mr Herries as the persons destined to hold high offices in the next Government.

The Bishops behave extremely ill about Dr Hampden, and the Bishop of Exeter[26] is gone so
far, in the Queen's opinion, that he might be prosecuted for it, in calling the Act settling
the supremacy on the Crown a foul act and the Magna Charta of Tyranny.

The Queen is glad to hear that Lord John is quite recovered. We are going to Windsor the day
after to-morrow.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He has received with great pleasure
your Majesty's letter of this morning, and reciprocates with the most cordial heartiness your
Majesty's good wishes of the season, both for your Majesty and His Royal Highness. Lord Melbourne
is pretty well in health, perhaps rather better than he has been, but low and depressed in
spirits for a cause which has long pressed upon his mind, but which he has never before communicated
to your Majesty. Lord Melbourne has for a long time found himself much straitened in his pecuniary
circumstances, and these embarrassments are growing now every day more and more urgent, so
that he dreads before long that he shall be obliged to add another to the list of failures
and bankruptcies of which there have lately been so many. This is the true reason why Lord
Melbourne has always avoided the honour of the Garter, when pressed upon him by his late Majesty
and also by your Majesty. Lord Melbourne knows that the expense of accepting the blue ribbon
amounts to £1000, and there has been of late years no period at which it would not have been
seriously inconvenient to Lord Melbourne to lay down such a sum.[27]

    [Footnote 27: The Queen, through the agency of Mr Anson,
    advanced Lord Melbourne a considerable sum of money, which
    seems to have been repaid at his death. Apparently Lord
    Melbourne's declining health caused him to magnify his
    difficulties. The report which Mr Anson made shows that he was
    in no sense seriously embarrassed.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER XVII

At the outset of the year 1848 great alarm was felt throughout England at the supposed inadequacy
of her defences, a panic being caused by the indiscreet publication of a confidential letter
from the Duke of Wellington to Sir John Burgoyne, to the effect that in his judgment the whole
South Coast was open to invasion, and that there were no means of opposing a hostile force.
The Government turned its attention to reconstructing the Militia, and raising the Income Tax
for the purpose. But the outlook was completely changed by the French Revolution; Louis Philippe,
who had just lost his sister and counsellor, Madame Adélaïde, impulsively abdicated, on a rising
taking place, and escaped with his family to this country. England and Belgium were unaffected
by the outburst of revolution which convulsed Europe: the Emperor of Austria was forced to
abdicate, and Metternich, like Guizot, became a fugitive; Prussia was shaken to her foundation,
and throughout Germany the movement in favour of representative institutions made rapid headway;
a National Assembly for Germany was constituted, and Schleswig was claimed as an integral part
of the German dominions. In Italy also the Revolution, though premature, was serious. The Pope,
not yet reactionary, declared war against Austria; the Milanese rose against Radetzky, the
Austrian Governor, and King Charles Albert of Sardinia marched to their assistance. A republic
was proclaimed in Venice, but these successes were afterwards nullified, and a Sicilian rising
against Ferdinand II. of Naples was suppressed. In France the revolutionary movement held steadily
on its course, a National Assembly was elected, and national workshops established; Louis Bonaparte,
who had been a fugitive in England, was allowed to return, and was elected President of the
Republic by an immense majority of the popular vote.

The friends of Revolution had no success in England; a very serious riot at Glasgow was dispersed,
and the meeting convened by Feargus O'Connor for the 10th of April on Kennington Common, which
was to carry a huge petition in favour of the People's Charter to the House of Commons, proved
a ridiculous fiasco. Ireland was much disturbed during the year by what was known as the Young
Ireland agitation, a movement organised by youthful, and for the most part cultivated, leaders,
and utterly different from the sturdy Repeal movement of O'Connell. Smith O'Brien, brother
of Lord Inchiquin, was the ringleader, and was backed by Mitchel, Duffy, Meagher, and others,
as well as by the Nation and United Irishman newspapers. Like Chartism, the movement ignominiously
collapsed and its leaders were convicted of treason. An Act was at the same time passed reducing
some offences (till then legally defined as treason) to felonies, and improving the law as
to offences against the person of the Sovereign.

The treacherous murder of two Englishmen in the Punjab led to operations against the Sikhs,
Lord Dalhousie--who had recently become Viceroy--after some hesitation, reinforcing Lord Gough,
the Commander-in-Chief, and proceeding in person to the frontier; a British force sustained
a reverse at Ramnuggur on 22nd November, and a decisive result was not arrived at till 1849.

In South Africa, a proclamation by Sir Harry Smith, the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope,
extending British sovereignty over the country between the Orange and Vaal rivers, led to a
collision with the Boers, and ultimately to the founding of the Transvaal State. Sir Harry
Smith defeated the Boers on the 29th of August at Boom Platz.

CHAPTER XVII

1848

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 1st January 1848.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--This is a most melancholy beginning of the year. Our poor Aunt Adélaïde,[1]
so kind to us, has departed this life yesterday morning. Poor Louise feels it dreadfully, as
nothing could be more affectionate and more motherly than she was for Louise. She was always
very kind and friendly to me, and I must confess I feel the blow much. I am very much alarmed
about the poor King; he must feel the loss of a sister and friend so entirely devoted to him
deeply; it is the thing most likely to hurt and shake his health. You will forgive if I cut
short here, as I am much disturbed by this melancholy event. I think you would act kindly in
writing to the King. We are too nearly connected not to do it, and it will soothe him, who
has been enough persecuted since last year. I trust you begin better than we do this most melancholy
January. My best love to Albert, and believe me ever, my dearest Victoria, your truly and devoted
Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 1: Sister of King Louis Philippe.]

[Pageheading: DEATH OF MADAME ADÉLAÏDE]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.[2]

WINDSOR CASTLE, 3rd January 1848.

The Queen sends Lord John Russell a letter from her Uncle, the King of the Belgians, which
will show how dreadful a blow Mme. Adélaïde's death will be to the King of the French and Royal
Family. The Queen's first thought was to write to the King, which she would not have done without
first mentioning it to Lord John; but upon reflection she thought it quickest and best to write
at once to her cousin Clémentine (Princess Augustus of Saxe-Coburg), to convey in her name
to the King her sincere sympathy at this melancholy event. The King of the Belgians' letter
has, however, brought back to the Queen her first thought of writing to the King, and she wishes
to know what Lord John thinks of it. The Queen thinks it as undignified as unfeeling to carry
on political coolness at moments like these, when her own feelings of sympathy are so strong
and so sincere. The Queen would certainly under other circumstances have instantly written
to the King. On the other hand, her first letter to her cousin (the King's daughter) may be
sufficient, as it conveys a direct message; and there may be people who will construe this
into a political act, but the Queen thinks that this risk should rather be run than that she
should appear unfeeling and forgetful of former kindness and intimacy.

The Queen would be glad to have Lord John's opinion on this subject as soon as possible.

    [Footnote 2: This letter is headed "Reproduction--Substance of
    a letter to Lord John Russell, written from recollection."]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 3rd January 1848.

MY DEARLY BELOVED VICTORIA,--I thank you most sincerely for your kind last letter, and all
your good wishes for the New Year. Alas! the year ended and began in a most painful and heartrending
way for us. The loss of my good, excellent, beloved Aunt is an immense misfortune for us all,
and the most dreadful blow for my poor Father. We are all broken-hearted by this, at last unexpected
event. Some years we were uneasy about my poor Aunt's health, and of late I had been particularly
alarmed by what I heard of her increasing weakness; but I was very far from believing that
her end was so near. I was only anxious for the winter. At least her end was peaceful. She
went to sleep and did not wake more. She died without a struggle; the horror of death, and
the still greater pang of the last farewell, of the last leave-taking of her beloved brother,
was spared her. I thank God for this proof of His mercy, and hope He will keep up my Father
under such a heavy affliction. To him the loss is irretrievable. My Aunt lived but for him;
one may almost say that her affection alone had kept her alive these last years, and a devotion
like hers--that devotion of all instants--so complete, so full of self-denial--cannot, will
never, be replaced. A heart like hers, so true, so noble, so warm, so loving, so devoted, is
rarely seen. To us also, independently of my Father, the loss is a dreadful one. My Aunt was
a second mother for us; we loved her and looked up to her in this way, and certainly few mothers
do for their children what she did for us, or loved them better. We are overwhelmed with grief
by the sudden disappearance of a being so dear and so necessary to us all, and we go to-morrow
to Paris, to mourn with the remainder of the family, and offer my poor Father the only consolation
he can feel at this cruel moment, that of being surrounded by all those he loves. I have still
so much to do previous to our melancholy journey that I cannot say more to-day. I am sure you
will excuse me. I shall, God willing, write in a more proper way the next time. In the meanwhile
I thank God that you are unberufen all well, and, in sorrow or in joy, I am equally, my beloved
Victoria, from the bottom of my heart, yours most devotedly,

LOUISE.

[Pageheading: LETTER TO KING LOUIS PHILIPPE]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

WOBURN ABBEY, 4th January 1848.

Lord John Russell presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has no hesitation in saying
that he thinks your Majesty will do well to follow your own kind impulse to write a letter
to the King of the French. There will be some persons, and M. Guizot perhaps among the number,
who will construe this into a political act; but it is better to be subject to such misconstructions
than to leave undone any act of sympathy to the King of the French in his sore affliction.

Should the King attempt to found upon your Majesty's letter any political intercourse, Lord
John Russell has no doubt that your Majesty will explain to him that your present proceeding
is entirely founded upon private regard, and past recollections of intimacy, and is not intended
as an opening for political correspondence.

Queen Victoria to the King of the French.

CH. DE WINDSOR, 5 Janvier 1848.

SIRE ET MON BON FRÈRE,--Je ne voulais pas suivre l'impulse de mon c[oe]ur, dans les premiers
instants de la vive douleur de votre Majesté, en vous écrivant--mais maintenant où la violence
de cette rude secousse peut-être sera un peu adoucie, je viens moi-même exprimer à votre Majesté
la part sincère que nous prenons, le Prince et moi, à la cruelle perte que vous venez d'éprouver,
et qui doit vous laisser un vide irréparable. Ayez la bonté, Sire, d'offrir nos expressions
de condoléance à la Reine, et faisant des v[oe]ux pour le bonheur de V.M., je me dis, Sire
et mon bon Frère, de V.M., la bonne S[oe]ur,

V. R.

A S.M. le Roi des Français.

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND THE PORTE]

The King of the French to Queen Victoria.

PARIS, 8 Janvier 1848.

MADAME MA BONNE S[OE]UR,--Dans la profonde douleur où m'a plongé le coup cruel qui vient de
me frapper, une des plus douces consolations que je pusse recevoir, est la lettre que votre
Majesté a eu la bonté de m'adresser, tant en son nom qu'en celui du Prince son Epoux. L'expression
de la part que vous prenez tous deux à mon malheur, et de l'intérêt que vous continuez à me
porter, m'a vivement ému, et quelque douloureuse qu'en soit l'occasion, qu'il me soit permis,
Madame, de vous en remercier, et de dire à votre Majesté que mon c[oe]ur et mes sentimens pour
elle, sont et seront toujours les mêmes que ceux que j'étais si heureux de Lui manifester à
Windsor et au Château d'Eu.

Je prie votre Majesté de vouloir bien être, auprès du Prince son Epoux, l'interprète de toute
ma sensibilité.

CLAREMONT, 11th January 1848.[sic: 1843]

The Queen has this morning seen a draft addressed to Lord Cowley, in which he is desired to
advise the Sultan to give Abd-el-Kader a command in his Army--a step which the Queen cannot
approve, not because it is not good advice to the Porte, but because it is uncalled for on
our part, and might be considered by France as a hostile step towards her. What would we say
if the French were to advise M. Ali to give Akbar Khan the command of his army?[3]

    [Footnote 3: See ante, vol. i. p. 254.]

[Pageheading: CLAREMONT]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

CLAREMONT, 11th January 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I always write with pleasure to you from this so very dear old place, where
we are safely and happily housed with our whole little family since yesterday. The weather
is very cold, and it is the third night of a black frost which is likely to continue for some
days. Many thanks for your kind letter of the 7th, which, according to the new arrangement,
I received already on the 8th. Your visit will, I fear, have been a very melancholy one. Poor
Mme. Adélaïde's death was so extremely sudden, it must be a dreadful blow to the poor King.
I have written to him. Louise will have told you that poor Aunt Sophia[4] is decidedly sinking.

I wish, dearest Uncle, if even Louise feels unequal to coming to us now (which would be a sad
disappointment), you would come to see us. Why not come while she is at Paris? It would be
such a pleasure to us. You will of course have no balls, and you might come even sooner than
you originally intended. Pray do see if you could manage this. I am sure you could. If Louise
could come, of course that would be still better.

Albert desires me to ask you the following favour, viz. if you would give us the picture that
is here of Grand Uncle Frederic (the Field-Marshal), that we might hang it up in London, where
we have made a fine collection of his contemporaries, and we would replace it by a faithful
copy, which could be hung up in the frame here. Will you grant this?

We are very desirous of getting the Woods and Forests to build a small glass dome to the greenhouse
here where the palm-trees are, and (if you approved) there could be no difficulty in getting
this done; the palm-trees are beautiful, and will be quite stunted and spoilt if not allowed
to grow. We shall stay here till Monday next. With Albert's love, ever your truly devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 4: Fifth daughter of George III., born 1777. She
    died in May 1848.]

[Pageheading: THE FRENCH ROYAL FAMILY]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 12th January 1848.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--A messenger of my own going to England, I take advantage of it to write
you a few words. Your kind letter to the poor King was an act for which I thank you from the
bottom of my soul, because it made him so happy. I was still in his rooms--where the family
has been breakfasting and dining till now--when your letter arrived; he was so delighted with
it that he kissed it most tenderly. I left him tolerably well on Monday, but with rather a
severe cold. He had certainly at the end of December the Grippe, which perhaps was the immediate
cause of poor Aunt's death, as from over-anxiety for her beloved brother, she got up in the
night to find out how he was. His cold had been better when he went to Dreux, then he met the
procession, and walked with it bareheaded to the church; this seems to have given him a new
cold. His nerves are also a good deal shaken, and this renders him very irritable. He is much
occupied about some of the arrangements connected with poor Aunt's fortune; she left her landed
property to Nemours, Joinville, and Montpensier, charged with the various sums she left to
nearly all the branches of her family. The King is to have, however, the enjoyment of the whole
of this fortune for his life. His great wish would be to employ the revenues, from the whole
of the succession legacies as well as landed property, to free the landed property of the mortgage
of the various legacies. This will require a good many years, and I told him that it would
force him to live till it would be arranged, which will easily require ten years. In France
a good feeling has been shown on this occasion. I heard from trustworthy quarters that even
people who were known to be personally not very kind to the King, expressed themselves most
anxious for his preservation. Whenever that sad event will take place, the reaction in Europe
will be great, as all the bad passions which are kept down by him will then of course try to
get the over hand. The Queen is much affected by all this, and thinks much of her own end.
The children, including good Hélène, have all behaved with the utmost affection to their parents,
and nothing can equal particularly good Nemours' devotion and attention. My beloved Child,
your truly devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: REVOLUTION IN FRANCE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 12th February 1848.

