"Yet I sometimes think this hush is really the worst of it all.  It is a voluminous apprehension,
a towering impendency.  You don't understand, George.  You can't.  The poor devil in Poe's
'Pit and the Pendulum' must have had a taste of my sensations.  A first victim is being chosen.
I have a vision of the spirits of composers small and great--standing up like suspects awaiting
identification, while her eye ranges over them.  Chopin tries to edge behind Wagner, a difficult
and forbidding person, and Gounod seeks eclipse of Mendelssohn, who suddenly drops and crawls
on all fours between Gounod's legs; Sullivan cowers, and even Piccolomini's iron-framed nerves
desert him.  She extends her hand.  There is a frantic rush to escape.  Have you ever seen
a little boy picking dormice out of a cage?  I always see this same nightmare during that dreadful
pause, a vision of a writhing heap of kicking, struggling, maddened composers, and of a ghoulish
piano grinning expectant, jaw raised--lid I mean--and showing all its black and yellow keys.
...  A melancholy shriek.  Do you hear, George?  Tito Mattel is captured.  A song.

"'Pum--So long the way--Pum--so dark the day--Pum--DEAR HEART! before you come.'  So Tito Mattel
comes pumming through the wall into my presence.  I don't pity him.  Indeed it is a positive
relief that it is only Tito Mattel.  The man's no deity at the best, and a little pulling out,
and pulling crooked, and general patching together of limbs in the wrong place scarcely matters
so far as he and my taste are concerned. Yet I always leave my work, George, when that begins,
and walk about the room.  I try to persuade myself that I need fresh air, but the autumnal
day, the damp shiny street, has all the uninviting harshness of truth--I admit I do not.  Tito
flops about, is riddled with dropped notes and racked with hesitations, and presently becomes
still.  The murder is over.

"What next?  That Study of Chopin's!  This time the thing is more inspiring.  Once upon a time
it was a favourite of mine.  Now it is a favourite of the unseen lady's.  She plays it with
spirit, and conjures up strange fancies in my brain.  The noises that come through the wall
now, quicker, thicker, louder, are full of a tale of weltering confusion, marine disaster,
a ship in sore labour; there is a steady beating like the sound of pumps, and a trickle of
treble notes.  There are black silences, like thunderclouds, that burst into flashes of music.
Now the poor melody swings up into the air--then comes one of those terrible pauses, and now
down into the abyss.  A crash, an ineffectual beating, a spasmodic rush.  I seem to hear the
pumps again, distant, remote, ineffectual.  But that is not so; the struggle is over.  Chopin's
Study has been battered to pieces; only disarticulated fragments toss amidst the froth.  High
up the confusion of the stormy sky she drives in a sieve dropping notes--the witch of the storm.
La Belle Dame Sans Merci.

"But the third piece in her repertory has begun--Rubinstein.  This, at any rate, is familiar.
She plays with the confidence born of long unpunished misdoing.  That Rubinstein must indeed
be sorry, and unless their elysium is like the library of the Linnæan Society, and fitted with
double windows, all the great departed musicians must be sorry too, that he ever wrote a Melody
in F.  Daily from the altars of a thousand, of ten thousand, school pianos that melody cries
to heaven. From the empire of the music master, upon which the sun never sets, day and night,
week in week out, from year to year, Rubinstein's Melody in F streams up for ever.  These school
pieces are like the Latin ritual before the Reformation, they link all Christendom by a common
use.  As the earth spins, and the sunlight sweeps ever westward, that melody passes with the
day.  Now it is tinkling in a grey Moravian school, now it dawns upon the Adige and begins
in Alsace, now it has reached Madrid, Paris, London.  Then a devotee in some Connemara Establishment
for Young Ladies sets to.  Presently tall ships upon the silent main resound with it, and they
are at it in the Azores and in Iceland, and then--one solitary tinkling, doubling, reduplicating,
manifolding into an innumerable multitude--New York takes up the wondrous tale.  On then with
the dawn to desolate cattle ranches, the tablelands of Mexico, the level plains of Illinois
and Michigan.  So the great tide that started in Rubinstein's cranium proceeds upon its destiny.
Always somewhere between the hours of eleven and two it comes back to me here, poor hunted
composition, running its eternal world gauntlet, pursuing its Wandering Jew pilgrimage, and
I curse and pity it as it goes by....  It has gone.  The 'Maiden's Prayer' is next usually.
Then one of the 'Lieder ohne Worte,' then the 'Dead March'--all of them but the meagre and
mutilated skeletons of themselves; things of gaps and tatters, like gibbet trophies.  They
are as knocked about as a fleet coming out of action, they are as twisted and garbled as a
Chinese war telegram; it is like an hospital for congenitally diseased compositions taking
the air.  And they have to hobble along sharply too; there is a certain cruel decision in the
way the notes are struck, a Nurse Gillespie touch about this Invisible Lady.  Or it may be
the callousness of old habit, a certain sense of a duty overdone, a certain impatience at the
long delay.  You will hear.

"Listen!--Tum Tum Ti-ti-tum--No!--tum.  Slight pause.  Tum tum twiddle--vigorous crescendo--TUM.
This is unusual!  A stranger?  A new piece for La Belle Dame Sans Merci?  Her wonted reckless
dash deserts her.  She is, as it were, exploring a new region, and advances with mischievous
coyness, with an affectation of a faltering heart, with hesitating steps.  My imagination is
stimulated by these dripping notes.  I see her, as it were, on an uneven pavement; here the
flags are set on end, there fungi have tilted them, a sharp turning of the page may reveal
heaven knows what horrors; presently comes a black gap with a vault of dusty silence below.
A pause, an incoherency, a repetition!  She has encountered some difficulty, some slumbering
coil of sharps and flats, and it raises its bristling front in her way.... She has fled back
to the opening again.  I begin to wonder what unhappy musician lies hidden in this new ruin,
behind the bars of this melancholy confusion.  There is something familiar but elusive, like
a face that one has known and loved and lost and met again after the cruel changes of intervening
years.  It conjures up oddly enough a vision of a long room in the twilight, and an acacia
in silhouette against the pale gold of the western sky.  Ah! now I know!

"That of all pieces!

"I must have my walk, George.  I cannot bear to hear that old-familiar music so evilly entreated.
But, all the same, the memory it has touched will vibrate and smart; to-day and to-morrow,
and I know not for how many days, it will re-echo in my brain.  All the old cloudy remorse
that has subsided will be set astir again.  I shall hear again a light touch upon the keys,
see again the shadowy face against the sunset, try to recall the sound of a voice....  What
evil spirit has put this mockery into the head of La Belle Dame?  Surely without this----"

He made a dive at the folding doors and presently reappeared in his coat.  It was the only
intimation I ever had that my dear little uncle had such a thing as a Past.

ON A TRICYCLE

I sat on the parapet of the bridge, and swung my feet over the water that frothed and fretted
at the central pier below.  Above the bridge the stream broadened into a cress-bespangled pool,
over which the sapphire dragon-flies hovered, and its earlier course was hidden by the big
oak trees that bent towards each other from either bank.  Through their speckled tracery of
green one saw the hazy blue depths of the further forest.  I was watching the proceedings of
some quick-moving brown bird amid the rushes and marsh marigolds of the opposite bank.

"Pleasant," said a voice beside me.

I turned, and saw my uncle.  He was disguised in a costume of reddish-brown cloth.  "Golf here?"
said I, and then I noticed the tricycle.  "A vagrom man on wheels!"

Both the suit and the machine became him very well.  The machine was low, and singularly broad
between the wheels, and altogether equal to him, and it had chubby pneumatic tires and a broad
and even imposing wallet.

"Yes," said he, following my eye.  "It is a handsome machine, a full dress concern with all
its plating and brown leather, and in use it is as willing and quiet as any tricycle could
be, a most urbane and gentlemanly affair--if you will pardon the adjective.  I am glad these
things have not come too late for me.  Frankly, the bicycle is altogether too flippant for
a man of my age, and the tricycle hitherto, with its two larger wheels behind and a smaller
one in front, has been so indecently suggestive of a perambulator that really, George, I could
not bring myself to it.  But a Bishop might ride that thing."

He swung himself up upon the parapet beside me and lit a cigar.

"The bicycle for boys, George--or fools.  The things will not keep up for a moment without
you work at them, they need constant attention; I would as soon ride a treadmill.  You cannot
loaf with them, and the only true pleasure of cycling is to loaf.  Yet only this morning did
I meet an elderly gentleman with a beard fit for Abraham, his face all crimson and deliquescent
with heat, and all distorted with the fury of his haste, toiling up a hill on one of these
unstable instruments. When he saw me coming down in all my ease and dignity he damned at me
with his bell.  Now, I do not like to see a bicycle wobble under a load of years, and steer
into the irascible.  As years increase tempers shorten, and bicycles, even the best of bicycles,
are seductively irritating.

"Besides, the devil of the Wandering Jew has power over all such as go upon two wheels.  'Onward,'
he says, 'onward!  Faster, thou man!  This green and breezy earth is no abiding place for you!'
And hard-breathing, crook-shaped, whirling, bell-banging lunatics try and race you.  They whiz
by, thinking indignities of your dignified progress, and sometimes saying them.  Not one cyclist
in a dozen, George, and seemingly not a solitary bicyclist, seems to think of anything but
getting to the end of his pleasure.  I meet these servants of the wheel at the inns, and they
tell short stories and sketches about their pace, and show each other their shoes and saddles,
and compare maps and roads; some even try to trade machines.  They talk most indecently of
the makes and prices.  I would as soon ask a man who was his tailor or where he got his hair
cut and how much he paid.  One man I met was not so much a man as a hoarding, blatant about
the Gaspipe Machine Company.  For them no flowers exist, no wild birds, no trees, no landscapes,
no historical memorials, and no geological associations, nothing but the roads they traverse
and the bicycles they ride.  Those that have other interests have them in the form of cheap
portable cameras, malignant things that can find no beauty in earth or heaven."

"George," said my uncle, suddenly, and I knew he had come upon a great discovery; "real human
beings are scarce in this world."

"You speak bitterly," said I.  "I know what has happened.  You are hot from an inn full of
the viler type of cyclist, and I presume that, after their custom, they mocked at your machinery.
But don't blacken a popular exercise on that account."

"But these men are so aggressive!  I tell you, George, it requires moral courage to ride a
tricycle about at a moderate pace, as a man of discretion should.  They want to make a sport
of it; they are race-struck, incapable of understanding a man who rides at seven miles an hour
when he might ride at fifteen.  Read their special papers. They mock and sneer at everything
but pace; they worship the makes of '94 in the interests of their advertising columns; touring
simply means hotel-touting to them, and landscape, deals in cameras; in the end they will kill
cycling--indeed, they are killing it.  It is not nice to be mocked at even when you are in
the right; a blatant cad is like a rhinoceros, and admits of no parleying, only since you must
not kill him you are obliged to keep out of his way.  The common cyclist has already driven
ladies off the roads by forcing the pace, the honeymoon tandem returns with its feelings hurt
at his jesting, and now he is driving off all quiet men."

"All this," said I, "because they said something disrespectful about your machine at the last
inn...  You don't, I see, approve of the feminine bicycle?"

My uncle did his best to be calm and judicial.

"A woman in a hurry is one of the most painful sights in the world, for exertion does not become
a woman as it does a man.  Let us avoid all prejudice in this matter, George, and discuss it
with open minds.  She has, in the first place, a considerable length of hair, and she does
it up into rich and beautiful shapes with things called hairpins and with curling irons.  Very
few people have hair that curls naturally, George. You are young, but you are married, and
I see nothing improper in telling you these things.  Well, when a woman rides about, exerting
herself violently to keep a bicycle going, her hair gets damp and the pleasing curls lose their
curliness and become wet, straggling bands of hair plastered over her venous forehead.  And
a tragic anxiety is manifest, an expression painful for a man to meet.  Also her hairpins come
out and fall on the road to wait for pneumatic tires, and her hair is no longer rich and beautiful
in form.  Then she gets dirty, horribly dirty, as though she had been used to sweep the roads
with.  And her skirts have to be weirdly altered, even to the divided skirt, so that when she
rides she looks like a short, squat little man.  She not only loses her beauty but her dignity.
Now, for my own part, I think a man wants a woman to worship--it is a man's point of view,
of course, but I can't help my sex--and the worshipping of these zouaves is incredible. She
is nothing more than a shorter, fuller, and feebler man.  Heaven help her!  For the woman on
the tricycle there are ampler excuses as well as ampler skirts, the exertion is not too violent
for grace and coolness, and the offensive bulging above one narrow wheel is avoided. But women
will never sacrifice so much for so little; worshipfulness, beauty, repose, and comfort for
a paltry two or three miles more an hour of pace.  They know too well the graces of delay.
To do things slowly, George, is part of the art of living.  Our sex learns that when its youthful
fervour is over and all the things are done.  But women are born wise."

"By the bye," said I, "how is Mrs Harborough?"

"Very well, thanks.  How is Euphemia?  Your bit of view, George, is pretty, but I think I will
have some heather now.  There is a common three miles ahead.  This indeed is the true merit
of cycling.  For a view, a panorama; for one picture, a gallery.  Your true artist in cycling
sits by the roadside, and rides only by way of an interlude. As for the worship of the machine,
I would as soon worship a scene-shifter."

He dropped off the bridge and mounted his machine, and was presently pursuing his smooth and
noiseless way.  As he vanished round the corner he sounded his gong.  It was really a most
potent, grave, and reverend gong, with a certain note of philosophical melancholy in its tone,
as different from the vulgar tang of your common cycle as one can well imagine.  It asked you,
at your convenience, sir (or madam), to get out of the way, to stand aside and see a most worthy
and dignified spectacle roll by, if so be you had the mind for it.  As for any scolding insistence,
any threat of imminent collision, there was none of it.  It was the bell of a man who loved
margins, who was at his ease, and would have all the world at its ease.  More than anything
else, it reminded me of the boom of some ivy-clad church tower, warning the world without unseemly
haste that another hour had, with leisurely completeness, accomplished itself.

And so he passed out of my sight and was gone.

AN UNSUSPECTED MASTERPIECE

(AUTHORESS UNKNOWN)

He pushed it away from him.

"I felt as though I had disturbed the graves of the long departed," he said with a grimace,
and then addressing the egg: "Forgive me the sacrilege: they sold you to me as new laid, a
mere thing of yesterday. I had no idea I was opening the immemorial past.  De mortuis nihil
nisi bonum--to you at least the quotation will be novel.  Or I might call you bad, you poor mummy.

"Unhappy, pent-up, ineffectual thing!" he said, waving his jilted bread and butter, and addressing
the discarded inedible.  "Poor old maid among eggs!  And so it has come to this absolute failure
with you.  Why were you ever laid?  Surely, since you were once alive, some lurking aspiration,
some lowly, and yet not lowly, but most divine, striving towards the Higher and the Better,
hath stirred within you.  The warm sunlight shone through your translucent shell, the sweet
air stirred the sweet hay of the nest, and life called you from your dreaming to awake, and
join it in its interplay.  And now!  You might have been--what might you not have been?  A
prize hen, fountain of a broadening stream of hens, chicks, dozens of chicks, hundreds of chicks,
a surging ocean of chickens.  Had you been hatched among the early Victorian chickens that
were, I presume, your contemporaries, by now you might have been a million fowl, and the delight
and support of hundreds of thousands of homes.  You might have been worth thousands of pounds
and have eaten corn by the ton.  They might have written articles about you in half-crown reviews
and devoted poultry farms to your sole support.  And instead you have been narrowed down to
this sordid back-street tragedy, a mere offence, tempting a struggling tradesman to risk the
honour of my patronage of his books, for a paltry fraction of a pennyworth of profit.  Why,
I ask you, were you not hatched?  Was it lack of courage? a fear of the unknown dangers that
lie outside the shell?

"An indescribable pity wells up in me for this lost egg, this dead end in the tree of life,
George.  One thinks of the humble but deserving amoeba, the primordial metazöon, the first
fish, the remote reptile ancestor, the countless generations of forefathers that, so far as
this egg went, have lived and learnt and suffered in vain.  The torrent of life had split and
rushed by on either side of it.  And you might," cried he, turning to the egg again, "have
been a Variety, a novelty, and an improvement in chickens.  No chick now will ever be exactly
the chick you might have been.  Only an Olive Schreiner could do full justice to your failure,
you poor nun, you futile eremite, you absolute and hopeless impasse.  Was it, I ask again,
a lack of courage?

"Perhaps a lack of opportunity?  It may be you stirred and hoped in the distant past, and the
warmth to quicken you never came.  Ambition may have fretted you.  Indeed, now I think of it,
there is something in the flavour of you, singularly suggestive of disappointed ambition. 
In literature, and more particularly in criticism, I can assure you I have met the very fellow
of your quality, from literary rotten eggs whose opening came too late.  They are like the
genii in the 'Arabian Nights' whom Solomon, the son of David, sealed in the pot.  At first
he promised infinite delights to his discoverer--and his discoverer lagged.  In the end he
was filled with unreasonable hatred against all the feeble free, and emerged as a malignant
fume, eager to wreak himself upon the world.

"A sudden thought, George!  I see my egg in a new light, and all my pity changes to respect.
Surely it is a most potent egg, a gallinaceous Swift.  After all, anything but pointless and
childless, since it has this strange quality of being offensive and engendering thought.  Food
for the mind if not food for the body--didactic if not delightful--a bit of modern literature,
earnest and fundamentally real. I must try and understand you, Ibsen Ovarum.  Possibly it is
a profound parable I have stumbled upon.  Though I scarcely reckoned on a parable with my bread
and butter.  Frankly, I must confess I bought it for the eating."

Now that my uncle had at last begun to grasp the true greatness of his egg, he apparently considered
it becoming to drop the tone of half-patronising pity he had previously adopted.  "Come," said
he, smiling, with a dash of raillery, over his coffee-cup; "admit you are a humbug, you whitened
sepulchre of an anticipated chick!  Until you found a congenial soul and overwhelmed me with
your confidence, what a career of deception--not mean, of course, but cynical--ironical--you
have been leading.  What a jest it must have been to you to be sold as new laid!  How you laughed
in your quiet way at the mockery of life. Surely it was a worthy pair to Swift in cassock and
bands conducting a marriage service.  I can well fancy your silent scorn of the hand that put
you in the bag.  New laid!  But now I have the full humour of you. You must pardon my dulness
of apprehension.  I grasp your meaning now; your quiet insistent teaching that all life is
decay and all decay is life.  No forcing the accent, no crudity, but a pervading persuasion.
A noble gospel!"

He paused impressively, placed the egg respectfully upon his bureau, and presently went off
at a tangent to something else.

"Shall I throw this away?" said the girl.

"Good heavens!  Throw it away?  Certainly not.  Put it in the library." (The library used to
be the corner of the room by the window.)

She stared at me with a certain attempt at confidence.  She is a callous, impertinent kind
of girl, and I fear inclined to be bold.  "It do smell, sir," she said to him.

"That's the merit of it.  It's irony.  Go and put it on the fourth shelf near the window. 
There are some yellow-covered books there, and Swift, some comedies by a gentleman named Ibsen,
and a couple of novels by two gentlemen named George ------.  But there! you don't know one
book from another!  The fourth shelf from the top on the right-hand side."

As the girl did so she looked over her hand at me, and lifted her eyebrows very slightly.

THE GREAT CHANGE

My uncle had been hectic all day.  I knew and dreaded what was coming, and said nothing that
by any chance could lead up to it.

He absent-mindedly tipped the emu sixpence.  Then we came to the wart hog.

"A bachelor," he said, meditatively, scratching the brute's back.

I hastily felt for a saving topic in the apprehensive darkness of my mind, and could find none.

"I expect I shall be married in October," said my uncle.  Then, sighing: "The idyll of my engagement
was short-lived."

It was out.  Now, the day--my last idle day with my poor uncle--was a hideous wreck.  All the
topics he had fluttered round vanished, and, cold and awful, there loomed over us the one great
topic.

"What do you think of marriage, George?" said my uncle, after a pause, prodding the wart hog
suddenly.

"That's your privilege," said I.  "Married men don't dare to think of it.  Bigamy."

"Privilege!  Is it such a headlong wreck of one's ideals as they say?" said my uncle.  "Is
that dreamland furniture really so unstable in use?"

"Of course," said I, "it's different from what one expects.  But it seems to be worse for the
other party.  At least to judge from the novels they engender in their agony."

"So far as I can see," he proceeded, "what happens is very similar to a thing a scientific
chap was explaining to me the other day.  There are some little beasts in the sea called ascidians,
and they begin life as cheerful little tadpole things, with waggling tails and big expressive
eyes.  They move freely about hither and thither, and often travel vast distances in an adventurous
way.  Then what he called metamorphosis begins.  The little tadpole waggles his way to a rock
and fixes himself head downward.  Then he undergoes the oddest changes, becomes indeed a mere
vegetative excrescence on the stone, secretes a lot of tough muck round himself, and is altogether
lost to free oceanic society.  He loses the cheerful tail, loses most of his brain, loses his
bright expressive eye."

"The bother of it," said I, "is that very often the wandering expressive eye is not lost in
the human metamorphosis."

"Putting it in another way, one might say that the kind of story that Ovid is so fond of describing,
the affairs of Daphne and Io, for instance, are fables of the same thing: an interlude of sentiment
and then a change into something new and domesticated, rooted, fixed, and bounded in."

"It is certainly always a settling down," said I.

"I don't like this idea of settling down, George."  He shuddered.  "It must be a dreadful thing
to go about always with a house on your mind."

"You get used to it.  And, besides, you don't go about so much."

He gave the bachelor wart hog a parting dig, and we walked slowly and silently through the
zebra-house towards the elephants.  "Of course we do not intend to settle down," he said presently,
with a clumsy effort to render his previous remarks impersonal.

"A marriage invalidates all promises," I explained.  "The law recognises this in the case of
wills."

"That's a new view," he said, evidently uncomfortable about something.

"It follows from your doctrine of metamorphosis.  A marries B.  Then the great change begins.
A gradually alters into a new fixed form, C, while B flattens and broadens out as D.  It is
a different couple, and they cannot reasonably be held responsible for the vagaries of A and B."

"That ought to be better understood."

"It would perhaps be as well.  Before marriage Edwin vows to devote his life to Angelina, and
Angelina vows she will devote her life to Edwin. After marriage this leads to confusion if
they continue to believe such promises.  Marriage certainly has that odd effect on the memory.
You remember Angelina's promises and forget your own, and vice versa."

"There is no apparition more distressing than the ghost of a dead promise," said my uncle.
"Especially when it is raised in the house of your friends."

We passed through the elephant house in silence.

"I wonder what kind of man I shall be after the change, George.  It's all a toss-up," he continued,
after an interval.  "I have seen some men improved by it.  You, for instance.  You were a mere
useless, indecent aspirant to genius before the thing came upon you.  Now you are a respectable
journalist and gracefully anxious to give satisfaction to your editor.  But my own impression
is that a man has to be a bit of an ass before he can be improved by marriage.  Most men get
so mercenary, they simply work and do nothing a rational creature should.  They are like the
male ants that shed their wings after the nuptial flight.  And their wives go round talking
fashion articles, and calling them dear old stupids, and flirting over teacups with the unmarried
men, or writing novelettes about the child-man, and living their own lives. I've been an unmarried
man and I know all about it.  Every intelligent woman now seems to want to live her own life
when she is not engaged in taking the child-man out into polite society, and trying to wean
him from alcohol and tobacco.  However, this scarcely applies to me."

"Not now," I said.  And he winced.

"I wonder how it feels.  Most men go into this without knowing of the change that hangs over
them.  But I am older.  It would not be nice for a caterpillar if he knew he was going to rip
up all along his back in a minute or so.  Yet I could sympathise with such a caterpillar now.
Anyhow, George, I hope the change will be complete.  I would not like to undergo only a partial
metamorphosis, and become a queer speckled monster all spotted with bachelor habits.  Yet I
sometimes think I am beyond the adolescent stage, and my habits rather deeply rooted. Hitherto,
I have always damned a little at braces and collars and things like that.  I wish I knew where
one could pick up a few admissible expletives.  And I loaf about London all day sometimes without
any very clear idea of what I am after, telling chaps in studios how to paint, and talking
to leisurely barristers, and all that kind of thing."

"She," I said, "will probably help you to conquer habits of that sort."

"Yes, I dare say she will," said my uncle.  "I forgot that for the minute."

THE PAINS OF MARRIAGE

My uncle came to a stop outside a stationer's shop in Oxford-street. When I saw what had caught
his attention I reproached myself for my thoughtlessness.

"Come," said I, "tell me what you think of--of representative government."

"It's no good, George.  You did the same thing at the cake shop.  Do you think I never saw
the cake shop?  Since this affair was settled I think every shop I pass reminds me of it--even
the gunsmith's.  I never suspected before how entirely retail trade turned on marriage--except,
perhaps, the second-hand book shops.  The whole world seems a-marrying.

"It's queer," said he, "that a little while ago the thing that worried me to the exclusion
of everything else was the idea of being married, and now it is so near it's entirely the getting
married that upsets me. I have forgotten the horrid consequences in the horror of the operation."

"It's much the same," said I, "at an execution."

"Look at those cards."  He waved his hand towards a neat array of silver and white pasteboard.
"'Jemima Smith,' with an arrow through the Smith, and 'Podger' written above it, and on the
opposite side 'Mr and Mrs John Podger.'  That is where it has me, George."

We went on past a display of electroplate with a card about presents in the window, past a
window full of white flowers, past a carriage-builder's and a glove shop.  "It's like death,"
said my uncle; "it turns up everywhere and is just the same for everybody.  In that cake shop
there were piles and piles of cakes, from little cakes ten inches across up to cakes of three
hundredweight or so; all just the same rich, uneatable, greasy stuff, and with just the same
white sugar on the top of them.  I suppose every day they pack off scores.  It makes one think
of marrying in swarms, like the gnats.  I catch myself wondering sometimes if the run of people
really are separate individuals, or only a kind of replicas, without any tastes of their own.
There are people who would rather not marry than marry without one of those cakes, George.
To me it seems to be almost the most asinine position a couple of adults can be in, to have
to buy a stone or so of that concentrated biliousness and cut it up, or procure other people
to cut it up, and send it round to other adults who would almost as soon eat arsenic.  And
why cake--infantile cake?  Why not biscuits, or cigarettes, or chocolate?  It seems to me to
be playing the fool with a solemn occasion."

"You see, it is the custom to have cake."

"Well, anyhow, I intend to break the custom."

"So did I, but I had it all the same."

My uncle looked at me.

"You see," said I, "when a woman says you must do this or that--must have cake at a wedding,
for instance--you must do it.  It is not a case for argument.  It is a kind of privilege they
have--the categorical imperative.  You will soon learn that."

Evidently the question was open.  "But why do they say you must?"

"Other women tell them to.  They would despise any one dreadfully who did not have a really
big cake--from that shop."

"But why?"

"My dear uncle," said I, "you are going into matrimony.  You do not show a proper spirit."

"The cake," said my uncle, "is only a type.  There is this trousseau business again.  Why should
a woman who is going to marry require a complete outfit of that sort?  It seems to suggest--well,
pre-nuptial rags at least, George.  Then the costume.  Why should a sane healthy woman be covered
up in white gauze like the confectionery in a shop window when the flies are about?  And why----?"

He was going on in quite an aggressive tone.  "There isn't a why," I said, "for any of it."
This sort of talk always irritates a married man because it revives his own troubles.  "It's
just the rule.  Surely, if a wife is worth having she is worth being ridiculous for?  You ought
to be jolly glad you don't have to wear a fool's cap and paint your nose red.  'More precious
than rubies'----"

"Don't," he said.

"It must be these tradesmen," he began bitterly after an interval. "Some one must be responsible,
and it's just their way.  Do you know, George, I sometimes fancy that they have hypnotised
womankind into the belief that all these uncomfortable things are absolutely necessary to a
valid marriage--just as they have persuaded the landlady class that no house is complete without
a big mirror over the fireplace and a bulgy sideboard.  There is a very strong flavour of mesmeric
suggestion about a woman's attitude towards these matters, considered in the light of her customary
common sense.  Do you know, George, I really believe there is a secret society of tradesmen,
a kind of priesthood, who get hold of our womenkind and muddle them up with all these fancies.
It's a sort of white magic.  Have you ever been in a draper's shop, George?"

"Never," I said: "I always wait outside--among the dogs."

"Have you ever read a ladies' newspaper?"

"I didn't know," said I, "that there was any part to read.  It's all advertisements; all the
articles are advertisements, all the paragraphs, the stories, the answers to correspondents--everything."

"That's exactly what makes me think the tradesmen have hypnotised the sex.  It may be they
do it in those drapers' dens.  A man spots that kind of thing at once and drops the paper.
Women go on year after year, simply worshipping a paper hoarding of that kind, and doing patiently
everything they are told to do therein.  Anyhow, it is only in this way that I can account
for all these expensive miseries of matrimony.  I can't understand a woman in full possession
of her faculties deliberately exasperating the man she has to live with--I suppose all men
submit to it under protest--for these stale and stereotyped antics.  She must be magnetised."

"They are not stale to her," I said.

"Mrs Harborough----" he began.

"Of course, a widow!--I forgot," I said.  "But she seems so young, you know."

