And is this war for the Union indeed a failure? Let our many and well-fought battles upon the
ocean and the land answer the question. Let a country nearly as large as half of Europe, taken
from the rebels since the war commenced, respond. Let Shiloh, and Donelson, and Gettysburg
and Vicksburg, and Port Hudson, and New Orleans, and the Mississippi from its source to its
mouth, answer. Why, this wretched calumny had scarcely been uttered by the McClellan Convention,
when Sherman, the great commander, and his army had washed out the accusation in the blood
of the vanquished, and unfolded our banner at Atlanta, the grand military strategic centre
of Georgia, never to be recalled. And while the shouts of the great victory in Georgia were
still sounding in our ears, Oppequan responded to the thunders of Atlanta, and the heroic Sheridan,
after a decided victory, was driving the rebel army from the valley of Virginia. Was Sherman's
campaign from Memphis and Nashville to Chattanooga, and from Chattanooga to Atlanta, a failure?
Why, that campaign is unsurpassed in history. Was Grant's Potomac advance a failure? What,
the hero of the great campaign of the West, terminating with the capture of Vicksburg and its
garrison, not know, or do his duty! Was the victory of the Wilderness a failure, or the destruction
in successive battles of one third of Lee's army, together with the seizure of the great Weldon
Railroad, or the repulse there of the Confederate attack--were these failures? Recollect, Grant
was Lieutenant-General, subordinate only to the President and Secretary of War, in planning
the whole campaign, and, while too much credit cannot be given to the heroic Sherman and noble
Sheridan, and their gallant armies, yet, it must be remembered, that their great victories
and strategic military movements are but a part of Grant's plan--concentrating the three armies
of the Potomac, the Shenandoah, and the West, so as to seize and hold all the roads connecting
with Richmond, and capture the Confederate army and government.

And now as to our navy. Were the gallant deeds of Admiral Porter at Vicksburg, on the Mississippi
River, the Arkansas, and the Red River, failures? Were the destruction of the forts protecting
New Orleans and the capture of that city by the illustrious Farragut failures? Were the capture
or destruction by that gallant man, aided by General Granger, of the forts commanding the Bay
of Mobile, together with the occupation of its harbor by our fleet--and the destruction there
of the Confederate navy--were these failures? Were the capture of the forts and city of Pensacola,
of all the Florida forts, and the fortifications commanding Savannah--the defeat of the Merrimac
and Tennessee--the destruction of the Alabama--the capture of Port Royal, and of the forts
which commanded it--were these failures? No; the war is not a failure. It is a glorious and
trancendent success. Already the whole Southern and Southwestern coast is ours. The whole of
the Mississippi is ours, with far more than a thousand miles of its course from Columbus to
its mouth, and even to a considerable extent up the Mississippi and Missouri, which had been
once in the hands of the enemy. Chesapeake Bay is ours, and all its tributaries, from the Potomac
to the James River. The whole coast of North and South Carolina, of Florida, Alabama, Mississippi,
Louisiana, and Texas, with vast portions of the interior, including many impregnable positions,
is ours. Tennessee, one of the seceded States, is now wholly ours. Kentucky is loyal. Missouri
is ours, and has abolished Slavery. Maryland is ours, and has, I believe, uprooted Slavery
also. Our whole Territorial domain, greater in extent than one half of Europe (and about Slavery
in which this contest began), is now wholly ours. Not a rebel flag floats within its limits.