The Toad, owing to its hideous, disgusting appearance, has been the subject of many superstitions:
it is commonly thought to spit venom, whilst, as yet, the question is unsettled, whether or
not it be poisonous in any respect; some affirm that a viscous humour of poisonous quality
exudes from the skin, like perspiration; whilst others pretend that cancers may be cured by
the application of living toads to them; and a man has been known to swallow one of these abominations
for a wager, taking care, however, to follow this horrid meal by an immediate and copious draught
of oil. But the very glance of the toad has been supposed fatal; of its entrails fancied poisonous
potions have been concocted; and for magical purposes it was believed extremely efficacious;
a precious stone was asserted to be found in its head, invaluable in medicine and magic. In
Carthagena and Portobello (America) these creatures swarm to such a degree in wet weather that
many of the inhabitants believe every drop of rain to be converted into a toad. It is said
of the Pipa, or Surinam toad, a hideous, but probably harmless, animal, that very malignant
effects are experienced from it when calcined.

The Crocodile is feigned to weep and groan like a human being in pain and distress, in order
to excite the sympathy of man, and thus allure him into his tremendous jaws.

The Lizard, though now declared by naturalists to be perfectly harmless, was long considered
poisonous by the ignorant; and in Sweden and Kamschatka, the green lizard is the subject of
strange superstitions, and regarded with horror. Newts, efts, swifts, snakes, and blind-worms
are, in popular credence, all venomous; and that the Ear-wig most justly derives its name from
entering people's ears, and either causing deafness, or, by penetrating to the brain, death
itself, is with many considered an indisputable fact. The Irish have a large beetle of which
strange tales are believed; they term it the Coffin-cutter, and it has some connexion with
the grave and purgatory, not now, unfortunately, to be recalled to our memory.

It is, in Germany, a popular belief, that the Stag-beetle (perhaps the same insect) carries
burning coals into houses by means of its jaws, and that it has thus occasioned many dreadful
fires. (How convenient would Swing find such a superstition in England!) The Death-watch superstition
is too well known to need particular notice in this paper. It is singular that the House-cricket
should by some persons be considered an unlucky, by others a lucky, inmate of the mansion:
those who hold the latter opinion consider its destruction the means of bringing misfortune
on their habitations. "In Dumfries-shire," says Sir William Jardine, "it is a common superstition
that if crickets forsake a house which they have long inhabited, some evil will befal the family;
generally the death of some member is portended. In like manner the presence or return of this
cheerful little insect is lucky, and portends some good to the family."

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

DOMESTIC LIFE IN AMERICA.

Servants.

Conversation of an American Woman.

"'Well now, so you be from the old country?

Hogs.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BELL ROCK LIGHT HOUSE.

It appears that the bill for the abolition of imprisonment for debt in America "works well,"
as applied to New York; and the system is consequently to be put in general force all over
the Union--a fact, which, as a poet like Mr. Watts would say, adds another leaf to America's
laurel. But the paper which announced this gratifying intelligence, relates in a paragraph
nearly subjoined to it, a circumstance in natural history that seems to have some connexion
with the affairs between debtor and creditor in the United States. It informs us, that up to
the present period of scientific investigation, "no chalk has been discovered in North America."
Now this is really a valuable bit of discovery; and we heartily wish that the Geological Society,
instead of wasting their resources on anniversary-dinners, as they have lately been doing,
would at once set about establishing the proof of a similar absence of that article in this
country. Surely, our brethren on the other side of the Atlantic, will not fail to take the
hint which nature herself has so benificently thrown out to them; and instead of abolishing
the power of getting into prison, put an end at once to the power of getting into debt. The
scarcity of chalk ought certainly to be numbered among the natural blessings of America. Had
the soil on that side of the ocean been as chalky as this, America might have been visited
by a comet, like Pitt, with a golden train of eight hundred millions.--Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

ANGLING.

(From the Angler's Museum, quoted in the Magazine of Natural History.)

Every one who is acquainted with the habits of fish is sensible of the extreme acuteness of
their vision, and well knows how easily they are scared by shadows in motion, or even at rest,
projected from the bank; and often has the angler to regret the suspension of a successful
fly-fishing by the accidental passage of a person along the opposite bank of the stream: yet,
by noting the apparently trivial habits of one of nature's anglers, not only is our difficulty
obviated, but our success insured. The heron, guided by a wonderful instinct, preys chiefly
in the absence of the sun; fishing in the dusk of the morning and evening, on cloudy days and
moonlight nights. But should the river become flooded to discoloration, then does the "long-necked
felon" fish indiscriminately in sun and shade; and in a recorded instance of his fishing on
a bright day, it is related of him, that, like a skilful angler, he occupied the shore opposite
the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

SKILFUL ANATOMISTS.

(For the Mirror.)

It may not be generally known that the tadpole acts the same part with fish that ants do with
birds; and that through the agency of this little reptile, perfect skeletons, even of the smallest
fishes may be obtained. To produce this, it is but necessary to suspend the fish by threads
attached to the head and tail in an horizontal position, in a jar of water, such as is found
in a pond, and change it often, till the tadpoles have finished their work. Two or three tadpoles
will perfectly dissect a fish in twenty-four hours.

H.S.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THREE ENTHUSIASTIC NATURALISTS.

The first is a learned entomologist, who, hearing one evening at the Linnean Society that a
yellow Scarabaeus, otherwise beetle, of a very rare kind was to be captured on the sands at
Swansea, immediately took his seat in the mail for that place, and brought back in triumph
the object of his desire. The second is Mr. David Douglas, who spent two years among the wild
Indians of the Rocky Mountains, was reduced to such extremities as occasionally to sup upon
the flaps of his saddle; and once, not having this resource, was obliged to eat up all the
seeds he had collected the previous forty days in order to appease the cravings of nature.
Not appalled by these sufferings, he has returned again to endure similar hardships, and all
for a few simples. The third example is Mr. Drummond, the assistant botanist to Franklin in
his last hyperborean journey. In the midst of snow, with the thermometer 15° below zero, without
a tent, sheltered from the inclemency of the weather only by a hut built of the branches of
trees, and depending for subsistence from day to day on a solitary Indian hunter, "I obtained,"
says this amiable and enthusiastic botanist, "a few mosses; and, on Christmas day,"--mark,
gentle reader, the day, of all others, as if it were a reward for his devotion,--"I had the
pleasure of finding a very minute Gymnóstomum, hitherto undescribed. I remained alone for the
rest of the winter, except when my man occasionally visited me with meat; and I found the time
hang very heavy, as I had no books, and nothing could be done in the way of collecting specimens
of natural history."

Magazine of Natural History

       *       *       *       *       *

This is another of Mr. Bennett's sketches made during his recent visit to several of the Polynesian
Islands.

Mr. Bennett thus describes the spot, with some interesting circumstances:

"July 29th. I visited this morning a beautiful spot named Maofanga, at a short distance from
our anchorage; here was the burial-place of the chiefs. The tranquillity of this secluded spot,
and the drooping trees of the casuarina equisetifolia, added to the mournful solemnity of the
place. Off this place, the Astrolabe French discovery ship lay when, some time before, she
fired on the natives. The circumstances respecting this affair, as communicated to me, if correct,
do not reflect much credit on the commander of the vessel. They are as follow: During a gale
the Astrolabe drove on the reef, but was afterwards got off by the exertion of the natives;
some of the men deserting from the ship, the chiefs were accused of enticing them away, and
on the men not being given up the ship fired on the village; the natives barricaded themselves
on the beach by throwing up sand heaps, and afterwards retired into the woods. The natives
pointed out the effects of the shot; on the trees, a large branch of a casuarina tree in the
sacred enclosure was shot off, several coco-nut trees were cut in two, and the marks of several
spent shots still remain on the trees: three natives were killed in this attack. A great number
of the flying-fox, or vampire bat, hung from the casuarina trees in this enclosure, but the
natives interposed to prevent our firing at them, the place being tabued. Mr. Turner had been
witness to the interment here, not long previously, of the wife of a chief, and allied to the
royal family. The body, enveloped in mats, was placed in a vault, in which some of her relations
had been before interred, and being covered up, several natives advanced with baskets of sand,
&c. and strewed it over the vault; others then approached and cut themselves on the head with
hatchets, wailing and showing other demonstrations of grief. Small houses are erected over
the vaults. All the burial-places are either fenced round or surrounded by a low wall of coral
stones, and have a very clean, neat, and regular appearance.

"I observed that nearly the whole of the natives whom I had seen, were deficient in the joints
of the little finger of the left hand, and some of both; some of the first joint only, others
two, and many the whole of both fingers. On inquiry, I found that a joint is chopped off on
any occasion of the illness or death of a relation or chief, as a propitiatory offering to
the Spirit. There is a curious analogy between this custom and one related by Mr. Burchell
as existing among the Bushmen tribe in Southern Africa, and performed for similar superstitious
reasons to express grief for the loss of relations.

"Near this place was the Hufanga, or place of refuge, in which a person in danger of being
put to death is in safety as long as he remains there; on looking in the enclosure, it was
only a place gravelled over, in which was a small house and some trees planted."[1]

[1] United Service Journal, Jan. 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

FRANCIS THE FIRST.

An Historical Drama. By Frances Ann Kemble.

This extraordinary production has awakened an interest in the dramatic and literary world,
scarcely equalled in our times. We know of its fortune upon the stage by report only; but,
from our acquaintance with the requisites of the acting drama, we should conceive its permanence
will be more problematical in the theatre than in the closet; and considering the conditions
upon which dramatic fame is now attainable, we think the clever authoress will not have reason
to regret these inequalities of success. That Miss Kemble's tragedy possesses points to be
made, and passages that will tell on the stage, cannot be denied; but its interest for representation
requires to be concentrated; it "wants a hero, an uncommon thing." It is well observed in the
Quarterly Review, (by the way, the only notice yet taken of the tragedy, that merits attention,)
that "the piece is crowded with characters of the greatest variety, all of considerable importance
in the piece, engaged in the most striking situations, and contributing essentially to the
main design. Instead of that simple unity of interest, from which modern tragic writers have
rarely ventured to depart, it takes the wider range of that historic unity, which is the characteristic
of our elder drama; moulds together, and connects by some common agent employed in both, incidents
which have no necessary connexion; and--what in the present tragedy strikes us as on many accounts
especially noticeable--unites by a fine though less perceptible moral link, remote but highly
tragic events with the immediate, if we may so speak, the domestic interests of the play."
This language is finely characteristic of the drama. Again, the interest has "so much Shakspearianism
in the conception as to afford a remarkable indication of the noble school in which the young
authoress has studied, and the high models which, with courage, in the present day, fairly
to be called originality, she has dared to set before her. In fact, Francis the First is cast
entirely in the mould of one of Shakspeare's historical tragedies." The drama too was written
without any view to its representation, as the Quarterly reviewer has been "informed by persons
who long ago perused the manuscript, several years before Miss Kemble appeared upon the stage,
and at a time when she little anticipated the probability that she herself might be called
upon to impersonate the conceptions of her own imagination. We believe that we are quite safe
when we state that the drama, in its present form, was written when the authoress was not more
than seventeen." Yet it should be added that the above statement is not made by way of extenuation;
for, to say the truth, it needs no such adventitious aid.

A mere outline of the story will convince the reader that, as the Reviewer states, "the tragedy
is alive from the beginning to the end;" and our extracts will we trust show the language to
be bold and vigorous; the imagery sweetly poetical; and the workings of the passions which
actuate the personages to be evidently of high promise if not of masterly spirit.

The tragedy opens with the recall of the Constable De Bourbon from Italy, through the supposed
political intrigue, but really, the secret love, of the mother of Francis, Louisa of Savoy,
Duchess of Angouleme, whom Miss Kemble calls the Queen Mother. In the second scene the Queen
Mother communicates to Gonzales, a monk in disguise, but in, reality an emissary of the Court
of Spain, her secret passion for De Bourbon, and her design in his recall.

Francis is introduced at a tourney, where he not only triumphs in the jousts, but over the
heart of the beautiful Françoise de Foix.

Bourbon returns, and the second act opens with his interview with Renée, (or Margaret,) the
daughter of the Queen Mother, and sister of Francis I., for whom he really entertains an affection.
In the second scene the Queen Mother declares her passion to Bourbon, who, at first supposes
he is to be tempted by Margaret's hand, but finding the Queen herself to be the lure, he indignantly
rejects her. The character of Bourbon in this scene is admirably brought out. The artifice
of the Queen--the scorn of Bourbon--and the Queen's meditated vengeance are powerfully wrought:

BOURBON.

  I would have you know,
  De Bourbon storms, and does not steal his honours
  And though your highness thinks I am ambitious,
  (And rightly thinks) I am not so ambitious
  Ever to beg rewards that I can win,--
  No man shall call me debtor to his tongue.

QUEEN (rising.)

  'Tis proudly spoken; nobly too--but what--
  What if a woman's hand were to bestow
  Upon the Duke de Bourbon such high honours,
  To raise him to such state, that grasping man,
  E'en in his wildest thoughts of mad ambition,
  Ne'er dreamt of a more glorious pinnacle?

BOURBON.

  I'd kiss the lady's hand, an she were fair.
  But if this world fill'd up the universe,--
  If it could gather all the light that lives
  In ev'ry other star or sun, or world;
  If kings could be my subjects, and that I
  Could call such pow'r and such a world my own,
  I would not take it from a woman's hand.
  Fame is my mistress, madam, and my sword
  The only friend I ever wooed her with.
  I hate all honours smelling of the distaff,
  And, by this light, would as lief wear a spindle
  Hung round my neck, as thank a lady's hand
  For any favour greater than a kiss.--

QUEEN.

  And how, if such a woman loved you,--how
  If, while she crown'd your proud ambition, she
  Could crown her own ungovernable passion,
  And felt that all this earth possess'd, and she
  Could give, were all too little for your love?
  Oh good, my lord! there may be such a woman.

BOURBON (aside.)

  Amazement! can it be, sweet Margaret--
  That she has read our love?--impossible!--and yet--
  That lip ne'er wore so sweet a smile!--it is.
  That look is pardon and acceptance! (aloud)--
    speak. (He falls at the Queen's feet.)
  Madam, in pity speak but one word more,--
  Who is that woman?

QUEEN (throwing off her veil.)

  I am that woman!

BOURBON (starting up.)

  You, by the holy mass! I scorn your proffers;
  Is there no crimson blush to tell of fame
  And shrinking womanhood! Oh shame! shame! shame!

(The Queen remains clasping her hands to her temples, while De Bourbon walks hastily up and
down; after a long pause the Queen speaks.)

(The Queen summons her Confessor.)

Enter GONZALES.

  Sir, we have business with this holy father;
  You may retire.

BOURBON.

  Confusion!

QUEEN.

  Are we obeyed?

BOURBON (aside.)

  Oh Margaret!--for thee! for thy dear sake!
    [Rushes out. The Queen sinks into a chair.]

QUEEN.

  Refus'd and scorn'd!  Infamy!--the word chokes me!
  How now! why stand'st thou gazing at me thus?

GONZALES.

  I wait your highness' pleasure.--(Aside) So all is well--
  A crown hath fail'd to tempt him--as I see
  In yonder lady's eyes.

QUEEN.

  Oh sweet revenge!
  Thou art my only hope, my only dower,
  And I will make thee worthy of a Queen.
  Proud noble, I will weave thee such a web,--
  I will so spoil and trample on thy pride,
  That thou shalt wish the woman's distaff were
  Ten thousand lances rather than itself.
  Ha! waiting still, sir Priest! Well as them seest
  Our venture hath been somewhat baulk'd,--'tis not
  Each arrow readies swift and true the aim,--
  Love having failed, we'll try the best expedient,
  That offers next,--what sayst thou to revenge?
  'Tis not so soft, but then 'tis very sure;
  Say, shall we wring this haughty soul a little?
  Tame this proud spirit, curb this untrain'd charger?
  We will not weigh too heavily, nor grind
  Too hard, but, having bow'd him to the earth,
  Leave the pursuit to others--carrion birds,
  Who stoop, but not until the falcon's gorg'd
  Upon the prey he leaves to their base talons.

GONZALES.

  It rests but with your grace to point the means.

QUEEN.

  Where be the plans of those possessions
  Of Bourbon's house?--see that thou find them straight:
  His mother was my kinswoman, and I
  Could aptly once trace characters like those
  She used to write--enough--Guienne--Auvergne
  And all Provence that lies beneath his claim,--
  That claim disprov'd, of right belong to me.--
  The path is clear, do thou fetch me those parchments.
    [Exit Gonzales.
  Not dearer to my heart will be the day
  When first the crown of France deck'd my son's forehead,
  Than that when I can compass thy perdition,--
  When I can strip the halo of thy fame
  From off thy brow, seize on the wide domains,
  That make thy hatred house akin to empire,
  And give thy name to deathless infamy. [Exit.

The King holds a Council to appoint a successor to the Constable in Italy. This scene is of
stirring interest. The Queen goads the high-minded Bourbon nigh unto madness, and at length
breaks out into open insult. Lautrec the brother of Françoise, and despised by Bourbon, is
named the governor. In the ceremony Francis addresses Lautrec:--

FRANCIS.

  With our own royal hand we'll buckle on
  The sword, that in thy grasp must be the bulwark
  And lode-star of our host. Approach.

QUEEN.

  Not so.
  Your pardon, sir; but it hath ever been
  The pride and privilege of woman's hand
  To arm the valour that she loves so well:
  We would not, for your crown's best jewel, bate
  One jot of our accustom'd state to-day:
  Count Lautrec, we will arm thee, at our feet:
  Take thou the brand which wins thy country's wars,--
  Thy monarch's trust, and thy fair lady's favour.
  Why, how now!--how is this!--my lord of Bourbon!
  If we mistake not, 'tis the sword of office
  Which graces still your baldrick;--with your leave,
  We'll borrow it of you.

BOURBON (starting up.)

  Ay, madam, 'tis the sword
  You buckled on with your own hand, the day
  You sent me forth to conquer in your cause;
  And there it is;--(breaks the sword)--take it--and with it all
  Th' allegiance that I owe to France; ay take it;
  And with it, take the hope I breathe o'er it:
  That so, before Colonna's host, your arms
  Lie crush'd and sullied with dishonour's stain;
  So, reft in sunder by contending factions,
  Be your Italian provinces; so torn
  By discord and dissension this vast empire;
  So broken and disjoin'd your subjects' loves;
  So fallen your son's ambition, and your pride.

QUEEN (rising.)

  What ho--a guard within there--Charles of Bourbon,
  I do arrest thee, traitor to the crown.

Enter Guard.

  Away with yonder wide-mouth'd thunderer;
  We'll try if gyves and straight confinement cannot
  Check this high eloquence, and cool the brain
  Which harbours such unmannerd hopes.
    [Bourbon is forced out.
  Dream ye, my lords, that thus with open ears,
  And gaping mouths and eyes, ye sit and drink
  This curbless torrent of rebellious madness.
  And you, sir, are you slumbering on your throne;
  Or has all majesty fled from the earth,
  That women must start up, and in your council
  Speak, think, and act for ye; and, lest your vassals,
  The very dirt beneath your feet, rise up
  And cast ye off, must women, too, defend ye?
  For shame, my lords, all, all of ye, for shame,--
  Off, off with sword and sceptre, for there is
  No loyalty in subjects; and in kings,
  No king-like terror to enforce their rights.

Meanwhile Lautrec proposes to his sister Françoise, the hand of his friend, the gallant Laval;
whilst the fair maiden is importuned by Francis, who endeavours to make the poet Clement Marot
the bearer of his intrigue. In a scene between Francis and the poet, the licentious impatience
of the King, and the unsullied honour of Clement are finely contrasted.

FRANCIS.

  I would I'd borne the scroll myself, thy words
  Image her forth so fair.

CLEMENT.

  Do they, indeed?
  Then sorrow seize my tongue, for, look you, sir,
  I will not speak of your own fame or honour,
  Nor of your word to me: king's words, I find,
  Are drafts on our credulity, not pledges
  Of their own truth. You have been often pleas'd
  To shower your royal favours on my head;
  And fruitful honours from your kindly will
  Have rais'd me far beyond my fondest hopes;
  But had I known such service was to be
  The nearest way my gratitude might take
  To solve the debt, I'd e'en have given back
  All that I hold of you: and, now, not e'en
  Your crown and kingdom could requite to me
  The cutting sense of shame that I endur'd
  When on me fell the sad reproachful glance
  Which told me how I stood in the esteem
  Of yonder lady. Let me tell you, sir,
  You've borrow'd for a moment what whole years
  Cannot bestow--an honourable name.
  Now fare you well; I've sorrow at my heart,
  To think your majesty hath reckon'd thus
  Upon my nature. I was poor before,
  Therefore I can be poor again without
  Regret, so I lose not mine own esteem.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRANCIS.

  Excellent.
  Oh, ye are precious wooers, all of ye.
  I marvel how ye ever ope your lips
  Unto, or look upon that fearful thing,
  A lovely woman.

CLEMENT.

  And I marvel, sir,
  At those who do not feel the majesty,--
  By heaven, I'd almost said the holiness,--
  That circles round a fair and virtuous woman:
  There is a gentle purity that breathes
  In such a one, mingled with chaste respect,
  And modest pride of her own excellence,--
  A shrinking nature, that is so adverse
  To aught unseemly, that I could as soon
  Forget the sacred love I owe to heav'n,
  As dare, with impure thoughts, to taint the air
  Inhal'd by such a being: than whom, my liege,
  Heaven cannot look on anything more holy,
  Or earth be proud of anything more fair. [Exit.

Gonzales, the monk, is despatched by the Queen to Bourbon in prison. At the door he meets Margaret,
who had bribed her way to her lover, and was returning after ineffectual attempts to soothe
him into submission, shame-struck at the exposure of her mother's guilt. The Queen intrusts
Gonzales with a signet ring as the means of liberating him and conducting him to the royal
chamber. Bourbon is immovable; and in revenge upon the Court, he falls in with a private scheme
of Gonzales, which is to accept of his liberty, and set off to the Court of Spain. The undisguising
of the treacherous monk is in these powerful lines:

GONZALES.

  Now,
  That day is come, ay, and that very hour:
  Now shout your war-cry; now unsheath your sword;
  I'll join the din, and make these tottering walls
  Tremble and nod to hear our fierce defiance.
  Nay, never start, and look upon my cowl--
  You love not priests, De Bourbon, more than I.
  Off, vile denial of my manhood's pride;
  Off, off to hell! where thou wast first invented,
  Now once again I stand and breathe a knight.
  Nay, stay not gazing thus: it is Garcia,
  Whose name hath reach'd thee long ere now, I trow;
  Whom thou hast met in deadly fight full oft,
  When France and Spain join'd in the battle field.
  Beyond the Pyrenean boundary
  That guards thy land, are forty thousand men:
  Their unfurl'd pennons flout fair France's sun,
  And wanton in the breezes of her sky:
  Impatient halt they there; their foaming steeds,
  Pawing the huge and rock-built barrier,
  That bars their further course--they wait for thee:
  For thee whom France hath injur'd and cast off;
  For thee, whose blood it pays with shameful chains,
  More shameful death; for thee, whom Charles of Spain
  Summons to head his host, and lead them on
  To conquest and to glory.

The interest now reverts to the fate of Françoise, and Bourbon is lost sight of; a transition
which, both in acting and reading, endangers the drama.[1] News arrives of the flight of Lautrec
from his government; of his arrest, his imprisonment, and capital condemnation.[2] He enjoins
his sister to intercede in his behalf with Francis; she complies, but it is at the expense
of her honour; broken-hearted, she sinks beneath her shame at the crime into which she has
been betrayed, and returns home. Francis pursues her, and the Queen, now aware of his passion
for her, dispatches the monk Gonzales on a secret mission to poison Françoise, who, she fears,
may supplant her in her ascendancy over the King. A fine passage occurs in the scene wherein
the Queen proposes her scheme to Gonzales.

QUEEN.

  Didst ever look upon the dead?

GONZALES.

  Ay, madam,
  Full oft; and in each calm or frightful guise
  Death comes in,--on the bloody battle-field;
  When with each gush of black and curdling life
  A curse was uttered,--when the pray'rs I've pour'd,
  Have been all drown'd with din of clashing arms--
  And shrieks and shouts, and loud artillery,
  That shook the slipp'ry earth, all drunk with gore--
  I've seen it, swoll'n with subtle poison, black
  And staring with concentrate agony--
  When ev'ry vein hath started from its bed,
  And wreath'd like knotted snakes, around the brows
  That, frantic, dash'd themselves in tortures down
  Upon the earth. I've seen life float away
  On the faint sound of a far tolling bell--
  Leaving its late warm tenement as fair,
  As though 'twere th' incorruptible that lay
  Before me--and all earthly taint had vanish'd
  With the departed spirit.

Laval returns from Italy to claim his bride. In the earlier part of the play, a hint is given
of Gonzales' rancorous hate of Laval, the undercurrent of which is now revealed. Gonzales,
beneath the seal of confession, obtains the secret of the crime of Françoise. In her presence,
as the betrothed Laval rushes to embrace his bride, he taunts him with her guilt. The wretched
Françoise, in vain conjured to assert her innocence, stabs herself. The King had been followed
thither by the Queen; both now appear. Gonzales riots revenge in one of the most vigorous portions
of the drama:

GONZALES.

  Look on thy bride! look on that faded thing,
  That e'en the tears thy manhood showers go fast,
  And bravely, cannot wake to life again!
  I call all nature to bear witness here--
  As fair a flower once grew within my home,
  As young, as lovely, and as dearly lov'd--
  I had a sister once, a gentle maid--
  The only daughter of my father's house,
  Round whom our ruder loves did all entwine,
  As round the dearest treasure that we own'd.
  She was the centre of our souls' affections--
  She was the bud, that underneath our strong
  And sheltering arms, spread over her, did blow.
  So grew this fair, fair girl, till envious fate
  Brought on the hour when she was withered.
  Thy father, sir--now mark--for 'tis the point
  And moral of my tale--thy father, then,
  Was, by my sire, in war ta'en prisoner--
  Wounded almost to death, he brought him home,
  Shelter'd him,--cherish'd him,--and, with a care,
  Most like a brother's, watch'd his bed of sickness,
  Till ruddy health, once more through all his veins
  Sent life's warm stream in strong returning tide.
  How think ye he repaid my father's love?
  From her dear home he lur'd my sister forth,
  And, having robb'd her of her treasur'd honour,
  Cast her away, defil'd,--despoil'd--forsaken--
  The daughter of a high and ancient line--
  The child of so much love--she died--she died--
  Upon the threshold of that home, from which
  My father spurn'd her--over whose pale corse
  I swore to hunt, through life, her ravisher--
  Nor ever from by bloodhound track desist,
  Till line and deep atonement had been made--
  Honour for honour given--blood for blood.

"The Queen orders Gonzales to death; but the monk accuses her of the intended murder of Françoise,
and produces her written order to that effect. The King can no longer be blind to his mother's
crimes; she is disgraced, degraded, and condemned to pass the rest of her days in a convent."

Here the fourth act, and the acting play closes. In the fifth De Bourbon reappears. Lautrec
proposes to join him, and assassinate the King, in revenge for the ruin of Françoise. The memorable
battle of Pavia ensues, and terminates with the death of the King and the triumph of Bourbon.

Triboulet, the jester of the Court of Francis, is introduced with some pleasantry, by way of
relief to the darker deeds.

We cannot conclude this imperfect sketch better than by the following judicious observations
from the Quarterly Review: "How high Miss Kemble's young aspirings have been--what conceptions
she has formed to herself of the dignity of tragic poetry--may be discovered from this most
remarkable work; at this height she must maintain herself, or soar a still bolder flight. The
turmoil, the hurry, the business, the toil, even the celebrity of a theatric life must yield
her up at times to that repose, that undistracted retirement within her own mind, which, however
brief, is essential to the perfection of the noblest work of the imagination--genuine tragedy.
Amidst her highest successes on the stage, she must remember that the world regards her as
one to whom a still higher part is fallen. She must not be content with the fame of the most
extraordinary work which has ever been produced by a female at her age, (for as such we scruple
not to describe her Francis the First,)--with having sprung at once to the foremost rank, not
only of living actors but of modern dramatists;--she must consider that she has given us a
pledge and earnest for a long and brightening course of distinction, in the devotion of all
but unrivalled talents in two distinct, though congenial, capacities, to the revival of the
waning glories of the English theatre."

[1] This disadvantage is greater on the stage, since the audience neither
    see nor hear more of Bourbon, and only four acts of the piece are
    performed. In the closet it will not be so obvious, as Bourbon
    returns in the fifth act.

[2] This is an entire variation from history.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

OLD ENGLISH MUSIC.

It was in the course of the sixteenth century that the psalmody of England, and the other Protestant
countries, was brought to the state in which it now remains, and in which it is desirable that
it should continue to remain. For this psalmody we are indebted to the Reformers of Germany,
especially Luther, who was himself an enthusiastic lover of music, and is believed to have
composed some of the finest tunes, particularly the Hundredth Psalm, and the hymn on the Last
Judgment, which Braham sings with such tremendous power at our great performances of sacred
music. Our psalm-tunes, consisting of prolonged and simple sounds, are admirably adapted for
being sung by great congregations; and as the effect of this kind of music is much increased
by its venerable antiquity, it would be very unfortunate should it yield to the influence of
innovation: for this reason, it is much to be desired that organists and directors of choirs
should confine themselves to the established old tunes, instead of displacing them by modern
compositions.

