Within the last quarter of a century, discovery has turned to the islands of the Pacific, perhaps
the most favoured region of the globe. Our great continental colony of Australia, its growing
population, and its still more rapidly growing enterprise--its probable influence on our Indian
empire, and its still more probable supremacy over the islands which cover the central Pacific,
from the tenth to the forty-fifth degrees of south latitude; have for the last thirty years
strongly directed the observation of government to the south. And a succession of exploring
voyages, from the days of Vancouver to the present time, have been employed in ascertaining
the character of superb shores, and the capabilities of vast countries, which will perhaps,
in another century, exhibit the most vivid prosperity, cultivation, and activity, of any dominion
beyond the borders of Europe.

Australia has an importance in the eyes of England, superior perhaps to all her other colonies.
The climate is obviously more fitted for the English frame than that of Canada or the West
Indies. The English settler alone is master of the mighty continent of New Holland; for the
natives are few, savage, and rapidly diminishing. The Englishman may range over a territory
of two thousand miles long, by seventeen hundred broad, without meeting the subject of any
other sovereign, or hearing any other language than his own. The air is temperate, though so
near the equator, and the soil, though often unfertile, is admirably adapted to the rearing
of sheep and cattle. The adjoining islands offer the finest opportunities for the commercial
enterprise of the Englishman; and its directness of navigation to India or China, across an
ocean that scarcely knows a storm, give it the promise of being the great eastern depôt of
the world. Van Diemen's Land, about the size, with more than the fertility of Ireland, is said
to resemble Switzerland in picturesque beauty; and New Zealand, a territory of fifteen hundred
miles in length, and of every diversity of surface, is already receiving the laws and the population
of England.

The distance is the chief drawback. Sydney is, by ordinary ship's course, sixteen thousand
miles from London, and the voyage, under the most prosperous circumstances, has hitherto occupied
about four months. But better hopes are at hand.

On the 20th of last May, a charter was obtained by a company for establishing a steam communication
with Sydney, which proposes to make the whole course within about two months. The route is
as follows,--making twelve thousand seven hundred and thirty miles in sixty-four days:--

From England to Singapore, by Egypt, eight thousand three hundred and ninety miles. From Singapore
to Fort Essington, by Batavia, two thousand miles. From Port Essington to Sydney, two thousand
three hundred and forty miles; the rate being one hundred and ninety-nine miles a-day. The
first portion occupying forty-two days,--the second, ten,--and the third, twelve.

The subject was, for a considerable time, before government, and various plans of communication
had been suggested.--A route by the Isthmus of Darien, and a route by the Cape with a branch
to the Mauritius. The route by Egypt and India has at length been chosen, and the most sanguine
hopes are entertained of its success. The steam establishment will have the farther advantage
of shortening the distance by one-half between Calcutta and Sydney; and reducing it to thirty
days, or perhaps less.

Bright prospects, too, are opening for India herself. The great railway is decided on, the
engineers are about to embark, and the harvests of cotton and the thousand other tropical productions
with which that most magnificent of all countries is covered, will be poured into the bosom
of Australia and the world.

It is scarcely possible to look upon the results of establishing railroads in India, without
something of the enthusiasm which belongs more to poetry than to statistics. But, "in the Golden
Peninsula," there spreads before the Englishman a space of nearly a million and a quarter of
square miles, inhabited by about one hundred and thirty-four millions of souls, with a sea-coast
of immense extent, washed by two oceans, and bordering on vast countries of hitherto unexplored
opulence. The resources of Birmah, Siam, and the Eastern Archipelago, have been scarcely touched
by the hand of man. Savage governments, savage nations, and savage indolence, have left those
countries almost in a state of nature; yet it is within the tropics that the true productiveness
of the earth is alone to be looked for. Our long winters, our mountains, and the comparative
sterility of Europe, prohibit that richness of produce which only waits the hand of man in
the South, and it is only when the industry of the European shall be suffered to throw its
strength into the Asiatic soil, that man will ever be able to discover the true extent of the
bounties provided for him by creation.

The three great divisions, or rather three zones of India--the country comprehending the great
northern chain of mountains, the belt of plains, from the foot of the mountains to the head
of the peninsulas, a breadth of twelve hundred miles; and the peninsula itself, a territory
extending from thirty-five degrees north latitude to the equator--give every temperature and
every product of the world. The mighty rivers intersecting this region, the Indus, the Ganges,
and their tributaries, will soon be occupied by the steamboat; and the railway, running through
immense plains on which the harvests of thousands of years have been suffered to perish, will
soon develope the powers of the people and the fertility of the soil, by opening to India the
market of all nations.

It is to India, that the chief enterprise of British commerce and civilisation should be directed
by an intelligent legislature. The country will naturally become a vast British province, and
this, not by violence or injustice, but by the course of things, and the interests of India
itself. The native princes, reared in vice and indolence, will be speedily found unfit to meet
the requisitions of a people growing in instruction. The race will perish, and their power
will be made over to England. The Indian, hitherto the slave of a capricious tyranny, will
then become the object of a judicious protection,--his property secure, his person safe, his
rights guarded, and with equal law, in place of the grasping avarice of a crafty minister,
or the hot fury of a drunken tyrant. The Indian subject of England will then form a contrast
to the wretched serf of a Rajah, that will be a more powerful pledge of obedience than fifty
conquests.

Even now, it can be no longer said, in the words of the eloquent appeal of Burke, that if we
left India, we should have no more monuments of our sojourn to show, than if we had been lions
and tigers. We shall have to show the steamboat, the railroad, and the true origin and foundation
of both,--public honour, public intelligence, and a sense of the rights of subjects and the
duties of sovereigns.

The increasing passage of the southern commerce through Torres Strait, had attracted the notice
of the British government to the peculiar perils of the navigation. The Strait is one of difficult
passage from the state of the currents, reefs, &c., and the difficulty was enhanced by the
imperfect nature of the charts. Along the east coast of Australia, and as far to the north
as New Guinea, an immense ridge of coral rock extends; and through the gaps in this barrier
reef, vessels must find their way to the Torres Strait. The two government vessels, the Fly
and the Bramble, were sent out to make a survey of the barrier reef. The especial objects of
the expedition being--the survey of the eastern edge of the great chain of reefs--the examination
of all the channels through the barrier reef, with details of those which afford a safe passage--and
the erection of beacons on their outer islands as guides to the navigation.

The commanders of the vessels were directed to give marked attention to all circumstances connected
with the health of the crews, the climate, temperature, products, and science; and especially
the phenomena of magnetism. A geologist and a zoologist were added to the expedition, the whole
under the command of Captain Francis Blackwood. In order to make the subsequent details more
intelligible, we give a brief abstract of the voyage. The Fly, with her tender the Bramble
schooner, sailed from Falmouth, April 11, 1842, and made the usual course to the Cape, touching
at Teneriffe on the way, where a party ascended the Peak, and determined its height to be twelve
thousand and eighty feet above the sea. Reaching Van Diemen's Land in August, and Australia
soon after, they sailed from Port Stephens December 19, to commence their survey. After an
examination of the Capricorn Group, they commenced the survey of the northern part of the great
barrier-reef, up to the Murray Islands.

In the next year, they erected a beacon on Raines Islet to mark the entrance of a good passage
through the reef. The rest of the year was spent in surveying Torres Straits. They remained
thus occupied till the beginning of 1845, when they sailed for Europe, and anchored at Spithead
in June 1845, after an absence of three years.

The result of those investigations was, a large accession to our previous knowledge of the
sea to the eastward of Australia, now become important from our settlements; and a survey of
five hundred miles of the great chain of coral reefs which act as the breakwater against the ocean.

We have heard much of coral islands, certainly the most curious means of increasing the habitable
part of the world; in fact, a new insect manufacture of islands. They are of all sizes. We
give the description of a small one of this order in the Capricorn Group, an assemblage of
islands and reefs on the north-east coast of Australia, so called from the parallel of the
Tropic of Capricorn passing through them.

    "The beach was composed of coarse fragments of worn corals and
    shells bleached by the weather. At the back of it, a ridge of the
    same materials four or five feet high, and as many yards across,
    completely encircled the Island, which was not a quarter of a mile
    in diameter. Inside this regular ridge was a small sandy plain.
    The encircling ridge was occupied by a belt of small trees, while
    on the plain grew only a short scrubby vegetation, a foot or two
    in height. Some vegetable soil was found, a few inches in
    thickness, the result of the decomposition of vegetable matter and
    birds' dung. On the weather side of the island was a coral reef of
    two miles in diameter, enclosing a shallow lagoon. In this lagoon
    were both sharks and turtles swimming about. The island was
    stocked with sea-fowl, and the trees were loaded with their
    nests."

It was a sort of bird-paradise, into which the foot of man, the destroyer, had probably never
entered before.

There is considerable beauty in a small coral reef, when seen from a ship's mast-head, at a
short distance, in clear weather. A small island with a white sand-beach and a tuft of trees,
is surrounded by a symmetrically oval space of shallow water, of a bright grass-green colour,
enclosed by a ring of glittering surf as white as snow; immediately outside of which is the
rich dark blue of deep water. All the sea is perfectly clear from any mixture of sand or mud.
It is this perfect clearness of the water which renders navigation among coral reefs at all
practicable; as a shoal with even five fathoms water on it, can be discerned at a mile distance
from a ship's mast-head, in consequence of its greenish hue contrasting with the blue of deep
water. In seven fathoms water, the bottom can still be discerned on looking over the side of
a boat, especially if it have patches of light-coloured sand; but in ten fathoms the depth
of colour can scarcely be distinguished from the dark azure of the unfathomable ocean. This
bed of reefs stretches along the coast of Australia, and across Torres Strait, nearly to the
coast of New Guinea, a distance of one thousand miles!

One of the charms of Natural History is, that it gives a perpetual interest to Nature,--that
things, to the common eye of no attraction, have the power of giving singular gratification;
and that, in fact, the intelligent naturalist is indulged with a sense of beauty, and an accession
of knowledge in almost every production of nature. We cannot avoid quoting the example in the
writer's own words. The subject was a block of coral, accidentally brought up by a fish-hook
from the bottom of one of the anchorages. Nothing could have been less promising, and any one
but a naturalist would have pronounced it to be nothing but a piece of rock, and have flung
it into the sea again. But what a source of interest does it become in the hands of the man
of science.

"It was a mere worn dead fragment, but its surface was covered with brown, crimson, and yellow
Nulliporæ, many small Actinæ, and soft branching Corallines, Flustra, and Eschara, and delicate
Reteporæ, looking like beautiful lace-work carved in ivory. There were several small sponges
and Alcyonia, seaweeds of two or three species, two species of Comatula, and one of Aphiura,
of the most vivid colours and markings, and many small, flat, round corals, something like
Nummulites in external appearance.

"On breaking into the block, boring shells of several species pierced it in all directions,
many still containing their inhabitants; while two or three Nereis lay twisted in and out among
its hollows and recesses, in which, likewise, were three small species of crabs."

If it should be supposed that the receptacle or nidus of all those curious and varied things
was a huge mass of rock, we are informed that,--

    "The block was not above a foot in diameter, and was a perfect
    museum in itself, while its outside glared with colour, from the
    many brightly and variously coloured animals and plants. It was by
    no means a solitary instance; every block which could be procured
    from the bottom, in from ten to twenty fathoms, was like it."

The reflection on this exuberance of nature is striking and true.--"What an inconceivable amount
of animal life must be here scattered over the bottom of the sea! to say nothing of that moving
through its waters; and this through spaces of hundreds of miles: every corner and crevice,
every point occupied by living beings, which, as they become more minute, increase in tenfold
abundance."

And let it be remembered, too, that those creatures have not merely life, but enjoyment; that
they are not created for any conceivable use of man, but for purposes and pleasures exclusively
suited to their own state of existence; that they exist in millions of millions, and that the
smallest living thing among those millions, not merely exceeds in its formation, its capacities,
and its senses, all that the powers of man can imitate, but actually offers problems of science,
in its simple organisation, which have baffled the subtlest human sagacity since the creation,
and will probably baffle it while man treads the globe.

In the navigation along the coast, the officers had frequent meetings with the natives, who
seemed to have known but little of the English settlements, for their conduct was exactly that
of the savage. They evidently looked with as much surprise on the ships, the boats, and the
men, as the inhabitants of Polynesia looked upon the first navigators to their shores. They
were all astonishment, much craft, and a little hostility on safe occasions.

But some parts of the coast still invite the settler, and the communication of this knowledge
from a pen so unprejudiced as that of the voyager, may yet be a service in directing the course
of colonisation. We are told that the tract of coast between Broad Sound and Whitsunday Passage,
between the parallels of twenty-two degrees fifteen seconds, and twenty degrees twenty seconds,
exhibits peculiar advantages. Superior fertility, better water, and a higher rise of tide,
are its visible merits. A solid range of hills, of a pretty uniform height, cuts off from the
interior a lower undulating strip of land from five to ten miles broad, the whole seeming to
be of a high average fertility for Australia. The grass fine, close, and abundant; the timber
large-sized and various. The coast is indented with many small bays and inlets. The great rise
and fall of tide is, of course, admirably adapted for the construction of docks for the building
and repair of ships.

Nor are those advantages limited to the soil. The coast is protected, as well as enriched and
diversified, by numerous small islands, lofty, rocky, and picturesque, covered with grass and
pines.

The most vexatious part of the narrative relates to the natives; whether they have been molested
by the half-savage whalers, or are treacherous by habit, it was found necessary to be constantly
on the watch against their spears. The parties who were sent on shore merely to take astronomical
observations, were assailed, and were sometimes forced to retaliate. Instead of the generally
thin and meagre population of Australia, some of those tribes were numerous, and of striking
figure, especially in the neighbourhood of Buckingham Bay. These were friendly and familiar
at first, often coming to the ships; and so much confidence was at last placed in them, that
the boats' crews neglected to take their arms with them when they went for water, or to haul
the seine; but this was soon found to be perilous confidence.

"On the very last night of our stay, after catching a good haul of fish, and distributing some
of them to the natives, the boats were suddenly assailed by a shower of spears and stones from
the bushes. The boatswain was knocked down by a large stone and much hurt. Luckily, one of
the men had a fowling-piece, and after firing it without producing any effect, a ball was found
in the boat, with which one of the black fellows was hit, and the attack immediately ceased.

"The man who was struck, after giving a start and a scream, showed the marks on his breast
and arms to his companions; and then going to the water, and washing off the blood, seemed
to think no more of it, but walked about with perfect unconcern."

Their spears exhibited a degree of ingenuity, which deserts them in every instance of supplying
the better wants of life. Into a piece of bamboo, six feet three inches long, is inserted a
piece of heavy wood, two feet seven inches long, the junction being very neatly and firmly
secured with grass and gum. This piece of wood tapers to a point, on which is fastened an old
nail, very sharp, and bent up, so as to serve for a barb; behind which, again, are two other
barbs, made of the spines from the tail of the stingray. All these are so secured by fine grass
and gum, that while quite firm against any ordinary resistance in entering the body, a much
less force would tear them off, in endeavouring to withdraw the spear.

The beauty of some of the coral reefs occasionally excited great admiration.

