This is a provincial, but not a first appearance in London; the present being the fourth "Wreath"
that has been entwined for the lovers of song and sentiment. It is culled from Liverpool, (next
to our own metropolis) the most literary city in the empire; but many of its flowers have been
gathered from our metropolitan parterre. Thus, in addition to the respected names of Roscoe,
Currie, and Shepherd, (of Liverpool), we have among the contributors those of Hemans, Bowring,
Howitt, Opie, with Mitford, Montgomery, and Wiffen. The editorship has passed into different
hands, and "the introduction of religious topics has been carefully avoided" as unsuited to
a work of elegant amusement.

The plates are twelve in number, among which are Lady Blanche and her Merlin, after Northcote
(rather too hard in the features); an exquisite View of the Thames near Windsor, after Havell;
Medora and the Corsair, after Howard; the Sailor Boy, by Lizars; and a beautiful Wreath Title-page,
after Vandyke. All these will bear comparison with any engravings in similar works.

The Wreath contains 132 pieces or flowers, some of them perennials--others of great, but less
lasting beauty--and but few that will fade in a day. Among those entitled to special distinction,
in the prose department, are an Italian Story, of considerable interest; the Corsair, a pleasing
sketch; and Lough Neagh, a tale of the north of Ireland. One of the perennials is a Journey
up the Mississippi, by Audubon, the American naturalist. Kester Hobson, a legendary tale of
the Yorkshire Wolds, which turns upon a lucky dream, will probably set thousands dreaming--and
we hope with the same good effect--viz. half-a-bushel of gold. "A Vision," by the late Dr.
Currie, is a successful piece of writing; Le Contretems is a pleasant tale enough, with a sprinkling
of French dialogue. Next is a well-told historiette of the eventful times of the Civil Wars.--The
Memoir of a young Sculptor can scarcely fail to awaken the sympathy of the reader. The introduction
of the paper on Popular Education, in what the editor himself calls "a work of elegant amusement
like the present," is somewhat objectionable, and the writer's sentiments will be very unpalatable
to a certain party. The Ridley Coach is a sketch in the style of Miss Mitford, who has contributed
only one article, and that in verse. Mrs. Opie has a slight piece--The Old Trees and New Houses--but
our prose selection is, (somewhat abridged)--

THE LADY ANNE CARR,

BY THE AUTHOR OF "MAY YOU LIKE IT."

Have you not sometimes seen, upon the bosom of dark, stagnant waters, a pure, white water-lily
lift up its head, breathing there a fresh and delicate fragrance, and deriving its existence
thence--yet partaking in nothing of the loathsome nature of the pool, nor ever sullied by its
close contact with the foul element beneath?

It is an honest simile to say that the gentle Anne Carr resembled that sweet water-lily. Sprung
from the guilty loves of the favourite Somerset and his beautiful but infamous wife, she was
herself pure and untainted by the dark and criminal dispositions of her parents. Not even a
suspicion of their real character had ever crossed her mind; she knew that they had met with
some reverse of fortune,--for she had heard her father regret, for her sake, his altered estate.
She knew this, but nothing more: her father's enemies, who would gladly have added to his wretchedness,
by making his child look upon him with horror, could not find in their hearts, when they gazed
on her innocent face, to make one so unoffending wretched. It is a lovely blindness in a child
to have no discernment of a parent's faultiness; and so it happened that the Lady Anne saw
nothing in her father's mien or manner, betokening a sinful, worthless character.

