THE ORIGINS OF CONTEMPORARY FRANCE, VOLUME 5

THE MODERN REGIME, VOLUME 1 [NAPOLEON]

by Hippolyte A. Taine

Contents:

PREFACE

BOOK FIRST. Napoleon Bonaparte.

 Chapter I. Historical Importance of his Character and Genius.

 Chapter II. His Ideas, Passions and Intelligence.

BOOK SECOND. Formation and Character of the New State.

 Chapter I. The Institution of Government.

 Chapter II. Use and Abuse of Government Services.

 Chapter III. The New Government Organization.

BOOK THIRD. Object and Merits of the System.

 Chapter I. Recovery of Social Order.

 Chapter II. Taxation and Conscription.

 Chapter III. Ambition and Self-esteem.

BOOK FOURTH. Defect and Effects of the System.

 Chapter I. Local Society.

 Chapter II. Local society since 1830.

*****

PREFACE

The following third and last part of the Origins of Contemporary France is to consist of two
volumes. For the Ancient Régime and the Revolution are henceforth complete and finished periods;
we have seen the end of both and are thus able to comprehend their entire course. On the contrary,
the end of the ulterior period is still wanting; the great institutions which date from the
Consulate and the Empire, either consolidation or dissolution, have not yet reached their historic
term: since 1800, the social order of things, notwithstanding eight changes of political form,
has remained almost intact. Our children or grandchildren will know whether it will finally
succeed or miscarry; witnesses of the denouement, they will have fuller light by which to judge
of the entire drama. Thus far four acts only have been played; of the fifth act, we have simply
a presentiment.--On the other hand, by dint of living under this social system, we have become
accustomed to it; it no longer excites our wonder; however artificial it may be it seems to
us natural. We can scarcely conceive of another that is healthier; and what is much worse,
it is repugnant to us to do so. For, such a conception would soon lead to comparisons and hence
to a judgment and, on many points, to an unfavorable judgment, one which would be a censure,
not only of our institutions but of ourselves. The machine of the year VIII,[1101] applied
to us for three generations, has permanently shaped and fixed us as we are, for better or for
worse. If, for a century, it sustains us, it represses us for a century. We have contracted
the infirmities it imports--stoppage of development, instability of internal balance, disorders
of the intellect and of the will, fixed ideas and ideas that are false. These ideas are ours;
therefore we hold on to them, or, rather, they have taken hold of us. To get rid of them, to
impose the necessary recoil on our mind, to transport us to a distance and place us at a critical
point of view, where we can study ourselves, our ideas and our institutions as scientific objects,
requires a great effort on our part, many precautions, and long reflection.--Hence, the delays
of this study; the reader will pardon them on considering that an ordinary opinion, caught
on the wing, on such a subject, does not suffice. In any event, when one presents an opinion
on such a subject one is bound to believe it. I can believe in my own only when it has become
precise and seems to me proven.

Menthon Saint-Bernard, September, 1890.

If you want to comprehend a building, you have to imagine the circumstances, I mean the difficulties
and the means, the kind and quality of its available materials, the moment, the opportunity,
and the urgency of the demand for it. But, still more important, we must consider the genius
and taste of the architect, especially whether he is the proprietor, whether he built it to
live in himself, and, once installed in it, whether he took pains to adapt it to how own way
of living, to his own necessities, to his own use.--Such is the social edifice erected by Napoleon
Bonaparte, its architect, proprietor, and principal occupant from 1799 to 1814. It is he who
has made modern France; never was an individual character so profoundly stamped on any collective
work, so that, to comprehend the work, we must first study the character of the Man.[1102]

I. Napoleon's Past and Personality.

     He is of another race and another century.--Origin of his
     paternal family.--Transplanted to Corsica.--His maternal
     family.--Laetitia Ramolino.--Persistence of Corsican
     souvenirs in Napoleon's mind.--His youthful sentiments
     regarding Corsica and France.--Indications found in his
     early compositions and in his style.--Current monarchical or
     democratic ideas have no hold on him.--His impressions of
     the 20th of June and 10th of August after the 31st of May.
     --His associations with Robespierre and Barras without
     committing himself.--His sentiments and the side he takes
     Vendémiaire 13th.--The great Condottière.--His character and
     conduct in Italy.--Description of him morally and physically
     in 1798.--The early and sudden ascendancy which he exerts.
     Analogous in spirit and character to his Italian ancestors
     of the XVth century.

Disproportionate in all things, but, stranger still, he is not only out of the common run,
but there is no standard of measurement for him; through his temperament, instincts, faculties,
imagination, passions, and moral constitution he seems cast in a special mould, composed of
another metal than that which enters into the composition of his fellows and contemporaries.
Evidently he is not a Frenchman, nor a man of the eighteenth century; he belongs to another
race and another epoch.[1103] We detect in him, at the first glance, the foreigner, the Italian,[1104]
and something more, apart and beyond these, surpassing all similitude or analogy.-Italian he
was through blood and lineage; first, through his paternal family, which is Tuscan,[1105] and
which we can follow down from the twelfth century, at Florence, then at San Miniato; next at
Sarzana, a small, backward, remote town in the state of Genoa, where, from father to son, it
vegetates obscurely in provincial isolation, through a long line of notaries and municipal
syndics. "My origin," says Napoleon himself,[1106] "has made all Italians regard me as a compatriot....
When the question of the marriage of my sister Pauline with Prince Borghése came up there was
but one voice in Rome and in Tuscany, in that family, and with all its connections: 'It will
do,' said all of them, 'it's amongst ourselves, it is one of our own families...'" When the
Pope later hesitated about coming to Paris to crown Napoleon, "the Italian party in the Conclave
prevailed against the Austrian party by supporting political arguments with the following slight
tribute to national amour propre: 'After all we are imposing an Italian family on the barbarians,
to govern them. We are revenging ourselves on the Gauls.'" Significant words, which will one
day throw light upon the depths of the Italian nature, the eldest daughter of modern civilization,
imbued with her right of primogeniture, persisting in her grudge against the transalpines,
the rancorous inheritor of Roman pride and of antique patriotism.[1107]

From Sarzana, a Bonaparte emigrates to Corsica, where he establishes himself and lives after
1529. The following year Florence is taken and subjugated for good. Henceforth, in Tuscany,
under Alexander de Medici, then under Cosmo I. and his successors, in all Italy under Spanish
rule, municipal independence, private feuds, the great exploits of political adventures and
successful usurpations, the system of ephemeral principalities, based on force and fraud, all
give way to permanent repression, monarchical discipline, external order, and a certain species
of public tranquility. Thus, just at the time when the energy and ambition, the vigorous and
free sap of the Middle Ages begins to run down and then dry up in the shriveled trunk,[1108]
a small detached branch takes root in an island, not less Italian but almost barbarous, amidst
institutions, customs, and passions belonging to the primitive medieval epoch,[1109] and in
a social atmosphere sufficiently rude for the maintenance of all its vigor and harshness.--Grafted,
moreover, by frequent marriages, on the wild stock of the island, Napoleon, on the maternal
side, through his grandmother and mother, is wholly indigenous. His grandmother, a Pietra-Santa,
belonged to Sarténe,[1110] a Corsican canton par excellence where, in 1800, hereditary vendettas
still maintained the system of the eleventh century; where the permanent strife of inimical
families was suspended only by truces; where, in many villages, nobody stirred out of doors
except in armed bodies, and where the houses were crenellated like fortresses. His mother,
Laetitia Ramolini, from whom, in character and in will, he derived much more than from his
father,[1111] is a primitive soul on which Civilization has taken no hold. She is simple, all
of a piece, unsuited to the refinements, charms, and graces of a worldly life; indifferent
to comforts, without literary culture, as parsimonious as any peasant woman, but as energetic
as the leader of a band. She is powerful, physically and spiritually, accustomed to danger,
ready in desperate resolutions. She is, in short, a "rural Cornelia," who conceived and gave
birth to her son amidst the risks of battle and of defeat, in the thickest of the French invasion,
amidst mountain rides on horseback, nocturnal surprises, and volleys of musketry.[1112]

"Losses, privations, and fatigue," says Napoleon, "she endured all and braved all. Hers was
a man's head on a woman's shoulders."

Thus fashioned and brought into the world, he felt that, from first to the last, he was of
his people and country.

"Everything was better there," said he, at Saint Helena,[1113] "even the very smell of the
soil, which he could have detected with his eyes shut; nowhere had he found the same thing.
He imagined himself there again in early infancy, and lived over again the days of his youth,
amidst precipices, traversing lofty peaks, deep valleys, and narrow defiles, enjoying the honors
and pleasures of hospitality, "treated everywhere as a brother and compatriot," without any
accident or insult ever suggesting to him that his confidence was not well grounded." At Bocognano,[1114]
where his mother, pregnant with him, had taken refuge, "where hatred and vengeance extended
to the seventh degree of relationship, and where the dowry of a young girl was estimated by
the number of her Cousins, I was feasted and made welcome, and everybody would have died for
me." Forced to become a Frenchman, transplanted to France, educated at the expense of the king
in a French school, he became rigid in his insular patriotism, and loudly extolled Paoli, the
liberator, against whom his relations had declared themselves. "Paoli," said he, at the dinner
table,[1115]" was a great man. He loved his country. My father was his adjutant, and never
will I forgive him for having aided in the union of Corsica with France. He should have followed
her fortunes and have succumbed only with her." Throughout his youth he is at heart anti-French,
morose, "bitter, liking very few and very little liked, brooding over resentment," like a vanquished
man, always moody and compelled to work against the grain. At Brienne, he keeps aloof from
his comrades, takes no part in their sports, shuts himself in the library, and opens himself
up only to Bourrienne in explosions of hatred: "I will do you Frenchmen all the harm I can!"--"Corsican
by nation and character," wrote his professor of history in the Military Academy, "he will
go far if circumstances favor him."[1116]--Leaving the Academy, and in garrison at Valence
and Auxonne, he remains always hostile, denationalized; his old bitterness returns, and, addressing
his letters to Paoli, he says: "I was born when our country perished. Thirty thousand Frenchmen
vomited on our shores, drowning the throne of liberty in floods of blood--such was the odious
spectacle on which my eyes first opened! The groans of the dying, the shrieks of the oppressed,
tears of despair, surrounded my cradle from my birth... I will blacken those who betrayed the
common cause with the brush of infamy.... vile, sordid souls corrupted by gain!"[1117] A little
later, his letter to Buttafuoco, deputy in the Constituent Assembly and principal agent in
the annexation to France, is one long strain of renewed, concentrated hatred, which, after
at first trying to restrain it within the bounds of cold sarcasm, ends in boiling over, like
red-hot lava, in a torrent of scorching invective.--From the age of fifteen, at the Academy
and afterwards in his regiment, he finds refuge in imagination in the past of his island;[1118]
he recounts its history, his mind dwells upon it for many years, and he dedicates his work
to Paoli. Unable to get it published, he abridges it, and dedicates the abridgment to Abbé
Raynal, recapitulating in a strained style, with warm, vibrating sympathy, the annals of his
small community, its revolts and deliverances, its heroic and sanguinary outbreaks, its public
and domestic tragedies, ambuscades, betrayals, revenges, loves, and murders,--in short, a history
similar to that of the Scottish highlanders, while the style, still more than the sympathies,
denotes the foreigner. Undoubtedly, in this work, as in other youthful writings, he follows
as well as he can the authors in vogue--Rousseau, and especially Raynal; he gives a schoolboy
imitation of their tirades, their sentimental declamation, and their humanitarian grandiloquence.
But these borrowed clothes, which incommode him, do not fit him; they are too tight, and the
cloth is too fine; they require too much circumspection in walking; he does not know how to
put them on, and they rip at every seam. Not only has he never learned how to spell, but he
does not know the true meaning, connections, and relations of words, the propriety or impropriety
of phrases, the exact significance of imagery;[1119] he strides on impetuously athwart a pell-mell
of incongruities, incoherencies, Italianisms, and barbarisms, undoubtedly stumbling along through
awkwardness and inexperience, but also through excess of ardor and of heat;[1120] his jerking,
eruptive thought, overcharged with passion, indicates the depth and temperature of its source.
Already, at the Academy, the professor of belles-lettres[1121] notes down that "in the strange
and incorrect grandeur of his amplifications he seems to see granite fused in a volcano." However
original in mind and in sensibility, ill-adapted as he is to the society around him, different
from his comrades, it is clear beforehand that the current ideas which take such hold on them
will obtain no hold on him.

Of the two dominant and opposite ideas which clash with each other, it might be supposed that
he would lean either to one or to the other, although accepting neither.--Pensioner of the
king, who supported him at Brienne, and afterwards in the Military Academy; who also supported
his sister at Saint-Cyr; who, for twenty years, is the benefactor of his family; to whom, at
this very time, he addresses entreating or grateful letters over his mother's signature--he
does not regard him as his born general; it does not enter his mind to take sides and draw
his sword in his patron's behalf;' in vain is he a gentleman, to whom, d'Hozier has certified;
reared in a school of noble cadets, he has no noble or monarchical traditions.[1122]--Poor
and tormented by ambition, a reader of Rousseau, patronized by Raynal, and tacking together
sentences of philosophic fustian about equality, if he speaks the jargon of the day, it is
without any belief in it. The phrases in vogue form a decent, academical drapery for his ideas,
or serve him as a red cap for the club; he is not bewildered by democratic illusions, and entertains
no other feeling than disgust for the revolution and the sovereignty of the populace.--At Paris,
in April,1792, when the struggle between the monarchists and the revolutionaries is at its
height, he tries to find "some successful speculation,"[1123] and thinks he will hire and sublet
houses at a profit. On the 20th of June he witnesses, only as a matter of curiosity, the invasion
of the Tuileries, and, on seeing the king at a window place the red cap on his head, exclaims,
so as to be heard," Che Caglione!" Immediately after this: "How could they let that rabble
enter! Mow down four or five hundred of them with cannons and the rest would run away." On
August 10, when the tocsin sounds, he regards the people and the king with equal contempt;
he rushes to a friend's house on the Carrousel and there, still as a looker-on, views at his
ease all the occurrences of the day.[1124] Finally, the chateau is forced and he strolls through
the Tuileries, looks in at the neighboring cafés, and that is all: he is not disposed to take
sides, he has no Jacobin or royalist inclination. His features, even, are so calm "as to provoke
many hostile and distrustful stares, as someone who is unknown and suspicious."--Similarly,
after the 31st of May and the 2nd of June, his "Souper de Beaucaire" shows that if he condemns
the departmental insurrection it is mainly because he deems it futile: on the side of the insurgents,
a defeated army, no position tenable, no cavalry, raw artillerymen, Marseilles reduced to its
own troops, full of hostile sans-culottes and so besieged, taken and pillaged. Chances are
against it: "Let the impoverished regions, the inhabitants of Vivaris, of the Cevennes, of
Corsica, fight to the last extremity, but if you lose a battle and the fruit of a thousand
years of fatigue, hardship, economy, and happiness become the soldier's prey."[1125] Here was
something with which the Girondists could be converted!--None of the political or social convictions
which then exercised such control over men's minds have any hold on him. Before the 9th of
Thermidor he seemed to be a "republican montagnard," and we follow him for months in Provence,
"the favorite and confidential adviser of young Robespierre," "admirer" of the elder Robespierre,[1126]
intimate at Nice with Charlotte Robespierre. After the 9th of Thermidor has passed, he frees
himself with bombast from this compromising friendship: "I thought him sincere," says he of
the younger Robespierre, in a letter intended to be shown, "but were he my father and had aimed
at tyranny, I would have stabbed him myself." On returning to Paris, after having knocked at
several doors, he takes Barras for a patron. Barras, the most brazen of the corrupt, Barras,
who has overthrown and contrived the death of his two former protectors.[1127] Among the contending
parties and fanaticisms which succeed each other he keeps cool and free to dispose of himself
as he pleases, indifferent to every cause and concerning himself only with his own interests.--On
the evening of the 12th of Vendémiaire, on leaving the Feydeau theatre, and noticing the preparations
of the sectionists,[1128] he said to Junot:

"Ah, if the sections put me in command, I would guarantee to place them in the Tuileries in
two hours and have all those Convention rascals driven out!"

Five hours later, summoned by Barras and the Conventionalists, he takes "three minutes" to
make up his mind, and, instead of "blowing up the representatives," he mows down the Parisians.
Like a good condottière, he does not commit himself, considers the first that offers and then
the one who offers the most, only to back out afterwards, and finally, seizing the opportunity,
to grab everything.--He will more and more become a true condottière, that is to say, leader
of a band, increasingly independent, pretending to submit under the pretext of the public good,
looking out only for his own interest, self-centered, general on his own account and for his
own advantage in his Italian campaign before and after the 18th of Fructidor.[1129] He is,
however, a condottière of the first class, already aspiring to the loftiest summits, "with
no stopping-place but the throne or the scaffold,"[1130] "determined[1131] to master France,
and through France Europe. Without distraction, sleeping only three hours during the night,"
he plays with ideas, men, religions, and governments, exploiting people with incomparable dexterity
and brutality. He is, in the choice of means as of ends, a superior artist, inexhaustible in
glamour, seductions, corruption, and intimidation, fascinating, and yet more terrible than
any wild beast suddenly released among a herd of browsing cattle. The expression is not too
strong and was uttered by an eye-witness, almost at this very date, a friend and a competent
diplomat: "You know that, while I am very fond of the dear general, I call him to myself the
little tiger, so as to properly characterize his figure, tenacity, and courage, the rapidity
of his movements, and all that he has in him which maybe fairly regarded in that sense."[1132]

At this very date, previous to official adulation and the adoption of a recognized type, we
see him face to face in two portraits drawn from life, one physical, by a truthful painter,
Guérin, and the other moral, by a superior woman, Madame de Staël, who to the best European
culture added tact and worldly perspicacity. Both portraits agree so perfectly that each seems
to interpret and complete the other. "I saw him for the first time,"[1133] says Madame de Staël,
"on his return to France after the treaty of Campo-Formio. After recovering from the first
excitement of admiration there succeeded to this a decided sentiment of fear." And yet, "at
this time he had no power, for it was even then supposed that the Directory looked upon him
with a good deal of suspicion." People regarded him sympathetically, and were even prepossessed
in his favor;

"thus the fear he inspired was simply due to the singular effect of his person on almost all
who approached him. I had met men worthy of respect and had likewise met men of ferocious character;
but nothing in the impression which Bonaparte produced on me reminded me of either. I soon
found, in the various opportunities I had of meeting him during his stay in Paris, that his
character was not to be described in terms commonly employed; he was neither mild nor violent,
nor gentle nor cruel, like certain personages one happens to know. A being like him, wholly
unlike anybody else, could neither feel nor excite sympathy; he was both more and less than
a man; his figure, intellect, and language bore the imprint of a foreign nationality.. .. far
from being reassured on seeing Bonaparte oftener, he intimidated me more and more every day.
I had a confused impression that he was not to be influenced by any emotion of sympathy or
affection. He regards a human being as a fact, an object, and not as a fellow-creature. He
neither hates nor loves, he exists for himself alone; the rest of humanity are so many ciphers.
The force of his will consists in the imperturbable calculation of his egoism. He is a skillful
player who has the human species for an antagonist, and whom he proposes to checkmate... Every
time that I heard him talk I was struck with his superiority; it bore no resemblance to that
of men informed and cultivated through study and social intercourse, such as we find in France
and England. His conversation indicated the tact of circumstances, like that of the hunter
in pursuit of his prey. His spirit seemed a cold, keen sword-blade, which freezes while it
wounds. I felt a profound irony in his mind, which nothing great or beautiful could escape,
not even his own fame, for he despised the nation whose suffrages he sought... "--"With him,
everything was means or aims; spontaneity, whether for good or for evil, was entirely absent."

No law, no ideal and abstract rule, existed for him;

"he examined things only with reference to their immediate usefulness; a general principle
was repugnant to him, either as so much nonsense or as an enemy."

Now, if we contemplate Guérin's portrait,[1134] we see a spare body, whose narrow shoulders
under the uniform wrinkled by sudden movements, the neck swathed in its high twisted cravat,
the temples covered by long, smooth, straight hair, exposing only the mask, the hard features
intensified through strong contrasts of light and shade, the cheeks hollow up to the inner
angle of the eye, the projecting cheek-bones, the massive, protuberant jaw, the sinuous, mobile
lips, pressed together as if attentive, the large, clear eyes, deeply sunk under the broad,
arched eyebrows, the fixed, oblique look, as penetrating as a rapier, and the two creases which
extend from the base of the nose to the brow, as if in a frown of suppressed anger and determined
will. Add to this the accounts of his contemporaries[1135] who saw or heard the curt accent
or the sharp, abrupt gesture, the interrogating, imperious, absolute tone of voice, and we
comprehend how, the moment they accosted him, they felt the dominating hand which seizes them,
presses them down, holds them firmly and never relaxes its grasp.

Already, at the receptions of the Directory, when conversing with men, or even with ladies,
he puts questions "which prove the superiority of the questioner to those who have to answer
them."[1136] "Are you married?" says he to this one, and "How many children have you?"to another.
To that one, "When did you come here?" or, again, "When are you going away? He places himself
in front of a French lady, well-known for her beauty and wit and the vivacity of her opinions,
"like the stiffest of German generals, and says: 'Madame, I don't like women who meddle with
politics!'" Equality, ease, familiarity and companionship, vanish at his approach. Eighteen
months before this, on his appointment as commander-in-chief of the army in Italy, Admiral
Decrès, who had known him well at Paris,[1137] learns that he is to pass through Toulon: "I
at once propose to my comrades to introduce them, venturing to do so on my acquaintance with
him in Paris. Full of eagerness and joy, I start off. The door opens and I am about to press
forwards," he afterwards wrote, "when the attitude, the look, and the tone of voice suffice
to arrest me. And yet there was nothing offensive about him; still, this was enough. I never
tried after that to overstep the line thus imposed on me." A few days later, at Albenga,[1138]
certain generals of division, and among them Augereau, a vulgar, heroic old soldier, vain of
his tall figure and courage, arrive at headquarters, not well disposed toward the little parvenu
sent out to them from Paris. Recalling the description of him which had been given to them,
Augereau is abusive and insubordinate beforehand: one of Barras' favorites, the Vendémiaire
general, a street general, "not yet tried out on the field of battle,[1139] hasn't a friend,
considered a loner because he is the only one who can thinks for himself, looking peaky, said
to be a mathematician and a dreamer!" They enter, and Bonaparte keeps them waiting. At last
he appears, with his sword and belt on, explains the disposition of the forces, gives them
his orders, and dismisses them. Augereau has remained silent; It is only when he gets out of
doors does he recover himself and fall back on his accustomed oaths. He admits to Massena that
"that little bastard of a general frightened him." He cannot "comprehend the ascendancy which
made him feel crushed right away."[1140]

Extraordinary and superior, made for command[1141] and for conquest, singular and of an unique
species, is the feeling of all his contemporaries. Those who are most familiar with the histories
of other nations, Madame de Staël and, after her, Stendhal, go back to the right sources to
comprehend him, to the "petty Italian tyrants of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries," to
Castruccio-Castracani, to the Braccio of Mantua, to the Piccinino, the Malatestas of Rimini,
and the Sforzas of Milan. In their opinion, however, it is only a chance analogy, a psychological
resemblance. Really, however, and)historically it is a positive relationship. He is a descendant
of the great Italians, the men of action of the year 1400, the military adventurers, usurpers,
and founders of governments lasting their life-time. He inherits in direct affiliation their
blood and inward organization, mental and moral.[1142] A bud, collected in their forest, before
the age of refinement, impoverishment, and decay, has been transported into a similar and remote
nursery, where a tragic and militant régime is permanently established. There the primitive
germ is preserved intact and transmitted from one generation to another, renewed and invigorated
by interbreeding. Finally, at the last stage of its growth, it springs out of the ground and
develops magnificently, blooming the same as ever, and producing the same fruit as on the original
stem. Modern cultivation and French gardening have pruned away but very few of its branches
and blunted a few of its thorns: its original texture, inmost substance, and spontaneous development
have not changed. The soil of France and of Europe, however, broken up by revolutionary tempests,
is more favorable to its roots than the worn-out fields of the Middle Ages and there it grows
by itself, without being subject, like its Italian ancestors, to rivalry with its own species;
nothing checks the growth; it may absorb all the juices of the ground, all the air and sunshine
of the region, and become the Colossus which the ancient plants, equally deep-rooted and certainly
as absorbent, but born in a less friable soil and more crowded together, could not provide.

II. The Leader and Statesman

     Intelligence during the Italian Renaissance and at the
     present day.--Integrity of Bonaparte's mental machinery.
     --Flexibility, force, and tenacity of his attention.--Another
     difference between Napoleon's intellect and that of his
     contemporaries.--He thinks objects and not words.--His
     antipathy to Ideology.--Little or no literary or
     philosophical education.--Self-taught through direct
     observation and technical instruction.--His fondness for
     details.--His inward vision of physical objects and places.
     --His mental portrayal of positions, distances, and
     quantities.

"The human plant," said Alfieri, "is in no country born more vigorous than in Italy"; and never,
in Italy, was it so vigorous as from 1300 to 1500, from the contemporaries of Dante down to
those of Michael Angelo, Caesar Borgia, Julius II., and Macchiavelli.[1143] The first distinguishing
mark of a man of those times is the soundness of his mental instrument. Nowadays, after three
hundred years of service, ours has lost somewhat of its moral fiber, sharpness, and versatility:
usually the compulsory specialization has caused it to become lop-sided making it unfit for
other purposes. What's more, the increase in ready-made ideas and clichés and acquired methods
incrusts it and reduces its scope to a sort of routine. Finally, it is exhausted by an excess
of intellectual activity and diminished by the continuity of sedentary habits. It is just the
opposite with those impulsive minds of uncorrupted blood and of a new stock.--Roederer, a competent
and independent judge, who, at the beginning of the consular government, sees Bonaparte daily
at the meetings of the Council of State, and who notes down every evening the impressions of
the day, is carried away with admiration:[1144]

"Punctual at every sitting, prolonging the session five or six hours, discussing before and
afterwards the subjects brought forward, always returning to two questions, 'Can that be justified?[1145]'
'Is that useful?' examining each question in itself, in these two respects, after having subjected
it to a most exact and sharp analysis; next, consulting the best authorities, the pasts, experience,
and obtaining information about bygone jurisprudence, the laws of Louis XIV. and of Frederick
the Great.... Never did the council adjourn without its members knowing more than the day before;
if not through knowledge derived from him, at least through the researches he obliged them
to make. Never did the members of the Senate and the Legislative Corps, or of the tribunals,
pay their respects to him without being rewarded for their homage by valuable instructions.
He cannot be surrounded by public men without being the statesman, all forming for him a council
of state."

"What characterizes him above them all," is not alone the penetration and universality of his
comprehension, but likewise and especially "the force, flexibility, and constancy of his attention.
He can work eighteen hours at a stretch, on one or on several subjects. I never saw him tired.
I never found his mind lacking in inspiration, even when weary in body, nor when violently
exercised, nor when angry. I never saw him diverted from one matter by another, turning from
that under discussion to one he had just finished or was about to take up. The news, good or
bad, he received from Egypt, did not divert his mind from the civil code, nor the civil code
from the combinations which the safety of Egypt required. Never did a man more wholly devote
himself to the work in hand, nor better devote his time to what he had to do. Never did a mind
more inflexibly set aside the occupation or thought which did not come at the right day or
hour, never was one more ardent in seeking it, more alert in its pursuit, more capable of fixing
it when the time came to take it up."

He himself said later on:[1146]

"Various subjects and affairs are stowed away in my brain as in a chest of drawers. When I
want to take up any special business I shut one drawer and open another. None of them ever
get mixed, and never does this incommode me or fatigue me. If I feel sleepy I shut all the
drawers and go to sleep."

Never has brain so disciplined and under such control been seen, one so ready at all times
for any task, so capable of immediate and absolute concentration. Its flexibility[1147] is
wonderful, "in the instant application of every faculty and energy, and bringing them all to
bear at once on any object that concerns him, on a mite as well as on an elephant, on any given
individual as well as on an enemy's army. ... When specially occupied, other things do not
exist for him; it is a sort of chase from which nothing diverts him." And this hot pursuit,
which nothing arrests save capture, this tenacious hunt, this headlong course by one to whom
the goal is never other than a fresh starting-point, is the spontaneous gait, the natural,
even pace which his mind prefers.

"I am always at work," says he to Roederer.[1148] "I meditate a great deal. If I seem always
equal to the occasion, ready to face what comes, it is because I have thought the matter over
a long time before undertaking it. I have anticipated whatever might happen. It is no spirit
which suddenly reveals to me what I ought to do or say in any unlooked-for circumstance, but
my own reflection, my own meditation. ... I work all the time, at dinner, in the theatre. I
wake up at night in order to resume my work. I got up last night at two o'clock. I stretched
myself on my couch before the fire to examine the army reports sent to me by the Minister of
War. I found twenty mistakes in them, and made notes which I have this morning sent to the
minister, who is now engaged with his clerks in rectifying them."--

His associates weaken and sink under the burden imposed on them and which he supports without
feeling the weight. When Consul,[1149] "he sometimes presides at special meetings of the section
of the interior from ten o'clock in the evening until five o'clock in the morning.. .. Often,
at Saint-Cloud, he keeps the counselors of state from nine o'clock in the morning until five
in the evening, with fifteen minutes' intermission, and seems no more fatigued at the close
of the session than when it began." During the night sessions "many of the members succumb
through weariness, while the Minister of War falls asleep"; he gives them a shake and wakes
them up, "Come, come, citizens, let us bestir ourselves, it is only two o'clock and we must
earn the money the French people pay us." Consul or Emperor,[1150] "he demands of each minister
an account of the smallest details: It is not rare to see them leaving the council room overcome
with fatigue, due to the long interrogatories to which he has subjected them; he appears not
to have noticed, and talks about the day's work simply as a relaxation which has scarcely given
his mind exercise." And what is worse, "it often happens that on returning home they find a
dozen of his letters requiring immediate response, for which the whole night scarcely suffices."
The quantity of facts he is able to retain and store away, the quantity of ideas he elaborates
and produces, seems to surpass human capacity, and this insatiable, inexhaustible, unmovable
brain thus keeps on working uninterruptedly for thirty years.

Through another result of the same mental organization, Napoleon's brain is never unproductive;
that's today our great danger.--During the past three hundred years we have more and more lost
sight of the exact and direct meaning of things. Subject to the constraints of a conservative,
complex, and extended educational system we study

* the symbols of objects rather than on the objects themselves;

* instead of the ground itself, a map of it;

* instead of animals struggling for existence,[1151] nomenclatures and classifications, or,
at best, stuffed specimens displayed in a museum;

* instead of persons who feel and act, statistics, codes, histories, literatures, and philosophies;

in short, printed words. Even worse, abstract terms, which from century to century have become
more abstract and therefore further removed from experience, more difficult to understand,
less adaptable and more deceptive, especially in all that relates to human life and society.
Here, due to the growth of government, to the multiplication of services, to the entanglement
of interests, the object, indefinitely enlarged and complex, now eludes our grasp. Our vague,
incomplete, incorrect idea of it badly corresponds with it, or does not correspond at all.
In nine minds out of ten, or perhaps ninety-nine out of a hundred, it is but little more than
a word. The others, if they desire some significant indication of what society actually is
beyond the teachings of books, require ten or fifteen years of close observation and study
to re-think the phrases with which these have filled their memory, to interpret them anew,
to make clear their meaning, to get at and verify their sense, to substitute for the more or
less empty and indefinite term the fullness and precision of a personal impression. We have
seen how ideas of Society, State, Government, Sovereignty, Rights, Liberty, the most important
of all ideas, were, at the close of the eighteenth century, curtailed and falsified; how, in
most minds, simple verbal reasoning combined them together in dogmas and axioms; what an offspring
these metaphysical simulacra gave birth to, how many lifeless and grotesque abortions, how
many monstrous and destructive chimeras. There is no place for any of these fanciful dreams
in the mind of Bonaparte; they cannot arise in it, nor find access to it; his aversion to the
unsubstantial phantoms of political abstraction extends beyond disdain, even to disgust.[1152]
That which was then called ideology, is his particular bugbear; he loathes it not alone through
calculation, but still more through an instinctive demand for what is real, as a practical
man and statesman, always keeping in mind, like the great Catherine, "that he is operating,
not on paper, but on the human hide, which is ticklish." Every idea entertained by him had
its origin in his personal observation, and he used his own personal observations to control them.

If books are useful to him it is to suggest questions, which he never answers but through his
own experience. He has read only a little, and hastily;[1153] his classical education is rudimentary;
in the way of Latin, he remained in the lower class. The instruction he got at the Military
Academy as well as at Brienne was below mediocrity, while, after Brienne, it is stated that
"for the languages and belles-lettres, he had no taste." Next to this, the literature of elegance
and refinement, the philosophy of the closet and drawing-room, with which his contemporaries
are imbued, glided over his intellect as over a hard rock. None but mathematical truths and
positive notions about geography and history found their way into his mind and deeply impressed
it. Everything else, as with his predecessors of the fifteenth century, comes to him through
the original, direct action of his faculties in contact with men and things, through his prompt
and sure tact, his indefatigable and minute attention, his indefinitely repeated and rectified
divinations during long hours of solitude and silence. Practice, and not speculation, is the
source of his instruction, the same as with a mechanic brought up amongst machinery.

"There is nothing relating to warfare that I cannot make myself. If nobody knows how to make
gunpowder, I do. I can construct gun-carriages. If cannon must be cast, I will see that it
is done properly. If tactical details must be taught, I will teach them."[1154]

This is why he is competent right from the beginning, general in the artillery, major-general,
diplomatist, financier and administrator of all kinds. Thanks to this fertile apprenticeship,
beginning with the Consulate, he shows officials and veteran ministers who send in their reports
to him what to do.

"I am a more experienced administrator than they,[1155] when one has been obliged to extract
from his brains the ways and means with which to feed, maintain, control, and move with the
same spirit and will two or three hundred thousand men, a long distance from their country,
one has soon discovered the secrets of administration."

In each of the human machines he builds and manipulates, he perceives right away all the parts,
each in its proper place and function, the motors, the transmissions, the wheels, the composite
action, the speed which ensues, the final result, the complete effect, the net product. Never
is he content with a superficial and summary inspection; he penetrates into obscure corners
and to the lowest depths "through the technical precision of his questions," with the lucidity
of a specialist, and in this way, borrowing an expression from the philosophers, with him the
concept should be adequate to its purpose.[1156]

Hence his eagerness for details, for these form the body and substance of the concept; the
hand that has not grasped these, or lets them go, retains only the shell, an envelope. With
respect to these his curiosity is "insatiable."[1157] In each ministerial department he knows
more than the ministers, and in each bureau he knows as much as the clerks. "On his table[1158]
lie reports of the positions of his forces on land and on water. He has furnished the plans
of these, and fresh ones are issued every month"; such is the daily reading he likes best.

"I have my reports on positions always at hand; my memory for an Alexandrine is not good, but
I never forget a syllable of my reports on positions. I shall find them in my room this evening,
and I shall not go to bed until I have read them."

He always knows "his position" on land and at sea better than is known in the War and Navy
departments; better even than his staff-officers the number, size, and qualities of his ships
in or out of port, the present and future state of vessels under construction, the composition
and strength of their crews, the formation, organization, staff of officers, material, stations,
and enlistments, past and to come, of each army corps and of each regiment. It is the same
in the financial and diplomatic services, in every branch of the administration, laic or ecclesiastical,
in the physical order and in the moral order. His topographical memory and his geographical
conception of countries, places, ground, and obstacles culminate in an inward vision which
he evokes at will, and which, years afterwards, revives as fresh as on the first day. His calculation
of distances, marches, and maneuvers is so rigid a mathematical operation that, frequently,
at a distance of two or four hundred leagues,[1159] his military foresight, calculated two
or four months ahead, turns out correct, almost on the day named, and precisely on the spot
designated.[1160] Add to this one other faculty, and the rarest of all. For, if things turn
out as he foresaw they would, it is because, as with great chess-players, he has accurately
measured not alone the mechanical moves of the pieces, but the character and talent of his
adversary, "sounded his draft of water," and divined his probable mistakes. He has added the
calculation of physical quantities and probabilities to the calculation of moral quantities
and probabilities, thus showing himself as great a psychologist as he is an accomplished strategist.
In fact, no one has surpassed him in the art of judging the condition and motives of an individual
or of a group of people, the real motives, permanent or temporary, which drive or curb men
in general or this or that man in particular, the incentives to be employed, the kind and degree
of pressure to be employed. This central faculty rules all the others, and in the art of mastering
Man his genius is found supreme.

III. His acute Understanding of Others.

     His psychological faculty and way of getting at the thought
     and feeling of others.--His self-analysis.--How he imagines
     a general situation by selecting a particular case,
     imagining the invisible interior by deducting from the
     visible exterior.--Originality and superiority of his style
     and discourse.--His adaptation of these to his hearers and
     to circumstances.--His notation and calculation of
     serviceable motives.

No faculty is more precious for a political engineer; for the forces he acts upon are never
other than human passions. But how, except through divination, can these passions, which grow
out of the deepest sentiments, be reached? How, save by conjecture, can forces be estimated
which seem to defy all measurement? On this dark and uncertain ground, where one has to grope
one's way, Napoleon moves with almost absolute certainty; he moves promptly. First of all,
he studies himself; indeed, to find one's way into another's soul requires, preliminarily,
that one should dive deep into one's own.[1161]

"I have always delighted in analysis," said he, one day, "and should I ever fall seriously
in love I would take my sentiment to pieces. Why and How are such important questions one cannot
put them to one's self too often."

"It is certain," writes an observer, "that he, of all men, is the one who has most meditated
on the why which controls human actions."

His method, that of the experimental sciences, consists in testing every hypothesis or deduction
by some positive fact, observed by him under definite conditions; a physical force being ascertained
and accurately measured through the deviation of a needle, or through the rise and fall of
a fluid, this or that invisible moral force can likewise be ascertained and approximately measured
through some emotional sign, some decisive manifestation, consisting of a certain word, tone,
or gesture. It is these words, tones, and gestures which he dwells on; he detects inward sentiments
by the outward expression; he figures to himself the internal by the external, by some facial
appearance, some telling attitude, some brief and topical scene, by such specimen and shortcuts,
so well chosen and detailed that they provide a summary of the innumerable series of analogous
cases. In this way, the vague, fleeting object is suddenly arrested, brought to bear, and then
gauged and weighed, like some impalpable gas collected and kept in a graduated transparent
glass tube.--Accordingly, at the Council of State, while the others, either jurists or administrators,
see abstractions, articles of the law and precedents, he sees people as they are--the Frenchman,
the Italian, the German; that of the peasant, the workman, the bourgeois, the noble, the returned
émigré,[1162] the soldier, the officer and the functionary--everywhere the individual man as
he is, the man who plows, manufactures, fights, marries, brings forth children, toils, enjoys
himself, and dies.--Nothing is more striking than the contrast between the dull, grave arguments
advanced by the wise official editor, and Napoleon's own words caught on the wing, at the moment,
vibrating and teeming with illustrations and imagery.[1163] Apropos of divorce, the principle
of which he wishes to maintain:

"Consult, now, national manners and customs. Adultery is no phenomenon; it is common enough--une
affaire de canapé... There must be some curb on women who commit adultery for trinkets, poetry,
Apollo, and the muses, etc."

But if divorce be allowed for incompatibility of temper you undermine marriage; the fragility
of the bond will be apparent the moment the obligation is contracted;

"it is just as if a man said to himself, 'I am going to marry until I feel different.'"

Nullity of marriage must not be too often allowed; once a marriage is made it is a serious
matter to undo it.

"Suppose that, in marrying my cousin just arrived from the Indies, I wed an adventuress. She
bears me children, and I then discover she is not my cousin--is that marriage valid? Does not
public morality demand that it should be so considered? There has been a mutual exchange of
hearts, of transpiration."

On the right of children to be supported and fed although of age, he says:

"Will you allow a father to drive a girl of fifteen out of his house? A father worth 60,000
francs a year might say to his son, 'You are stout and fat; go and turn plowman.' The children
of a rich father, or of one in good circumstances, are always entitled to the paternal porridge.
Strike out their right to be fed, and you compel children to murder their parents."

As to adoption:

"You regard this as law-makers and not as statesmen. It is not a civil contract nor a judicial
contract. The analysis (of the jurist) leads to vicious results. Man is governed by imagination
only; without imagination he is a brute. It is not for five cents a day, simply to distinguish
himself, that a man consents to be killed; if you want to electrify him touch his heart. A
notary, who is paid a fee of twelve francs for his services, cannot do that. It requires some
other process, a legislative act. Adoption, what is that? An imitation by which society tries
to counterfeit nature. It is a new kind of sacrament.... Society ordains that the bones and
blood of one being shall be changed into the bones and blood of another. It is the greatest
of all legal acts. It gives the sentiments of a son to one who never had them, and reciprocally
those of a parent. Where ought this to originate? From on high, like a clap of thunder!"

All his expressions are bright flashes one after another.[1164] Nobody, since Voltaire and
Galiani, has launched forth such a profusion of them; on society, laws, government, France
and the French, some penetrate and explain, like those of Montesquieu, as if with a flash of
lightening. He does not hammer them out laboriously, but they burst forth, the outpourings
of his intellect, its natural, involuntary, constant action. And what adds to their value is
that, outside of councils and private conversations, he abstains from them, employing them
only in the service of thought; at other times he subordinates them to the end he has in view,
which is always their practical effect. Ordinarily, he writes and speaks in a different language,
in a language suited to his audience; he dispenses with the oddities, the irregular improvisations
and imagination, the outbursts of genius and inspiration. He retains and uses merely those
which are intended to impress the personage whom he wishes to dazzle with a great idea of himself,
such as Pius VII., or the Emperor Alexander. In this case, his conversational tone is that
of a caressing, expansive, amiable familiarity; he is then before the footlights, and when
he acts he can play all parts, tragedy or comedy, with the same life and spirit whether he
fulminates, insinuates, or even affects simplicity. When he is with his generals, ministers,
and principal performers, he falls back on the concise, positive, technical business style;
any other would be harmful. The keen mind only reveals itself through the brevity and imperious
strength and rudeness of the accent. For his armies and the common run of men, he has his proclamations
and bulletins, that is to say, sonorous phrases composed for effect, a statement of facts purposely
simplified and falsified,[1165] in short, an excellent effervescent wine, good for exciting
enthusiasm, and an equally excellent narcotic for maintaining credulity,[1166] a sort of popular
mixture to be distributed just at the proper time, and whose ingredients are so well proportioned
that the public drinks it with delight, and becomes at once intoxicated.--His style on every
occasion, whether affected or spontaneous, shows his wonderful knowledge of the masses and
of individuals; except in two or three cases, on one exalted domain, of which he always remains
ignorant, he has ever hit the mark, applying the appropriate lever, giving just the push, weight,
and degree of impulsion which best accomplishes his purpose. A series of brief, accurate memoranda,
corrected daily, enables him to frame for himself a sort of psychological tablet whereon he
notes down and sums up, in almost numerical valuation, the mental and moral dispositions, characters,
faculties, passions, and aptitudes, the strong or weak points, of the innumerable human beings,
near or remote, on whom he operates.

IV. His Wonderful Memory.

     His Three Atlases.--Their scale and completeness.

Let us try for a moment to show the range and contents of this intellect; we may have to go
back to Caesar to his equal; but, for lack of documents, we have nothing of Caesar but general
features--a summary outline. Of Napoleon we have, besides the perfect outline, the features
in detail. Read his correspondence, day by day, then chapter by chapter;[1167] for example,
in 1806, after the battle of Austerlitz, or, still better, in 1809, after his return from Spain,
up to the peace of Vienna; whatever our technical shortcomings may be, we shall find that his
mind, in its comprehensiveness and amplitude, largely surpasses all known or even credible
proportions.

He has mentally within him three principal atlases, always at hand, each composed of "about
twenty note-books," each distinct and each regularly posted up.--

1. The first one is military, forming a vast collection of topographical charts as minute as
those of an general staff, with detailed plans of every stronghold, also specific indications
and the local distribution of all forces on sea and on land--crews, regiments, batteries, arsenals,
storehouses, present and future resources in supplies of men, horses, vehicles, arms, munitions,
food, and clothing.

2. The second, which is civil, resembles the heavy, thick volumes published every year, in
which we now read the state of the budget, and comprehend, first, the innumerable items of
ordinary and extraordinary receipt and expenditure, internal taxes, foreign contributions,
the products of the domains in France and out of France, the fiscal services, pensions, public
works, and the rest; next, all administrative statistics, the hierarchy of functions and of
functionaries, senators, deputies, ministers, prefects, bishops, professors, judges, and those
under their orders, each where he resides, with his rank, jurisdiction, and salary.

3. The third is a vast biographical and moral dictionary, in which, as in the pigeon-holes
of the Chief of Police, each notable personage and local group, each professional or social
body, and even each population, has its label, along with a brief note on its situation, needs,
and antecedents, and, therefore, its demonstrated character, eventual disposition, and probable
conduct. Each label, card, or strip of paper has its summary; all these partial summaries,
methodically classified, terminate in totals, and the totals of the three atlases, combined
together, thus furnish their possessor with an estimate of his disposable forces.

Now, in 1809, however full these atlases, they are clearly imprinted on Napoleon's mind he
knows not only the total and the partial summaries, but also the slightest details; he reads
them readily and at every hour; he comprehends in a mass, and in all particulars, the various
nations he governs directly, or through some one else; that is to say, 60,000,000 men, the
different countries he has conquered or overrun, consisting of 70,000 square leagues[1168].
At first, France increased by the addition of Belgium and Piedmont; next Spain, from which
he is just returned, and where he has placed his brother Joseph; southern Italy, where, after
Joseph, he has placed Murat; central Italy, where he occupies Rome; northern Italy, where Eugène
is his delegate; Dalmatia and Istria, which he has joined to his empire; Austria, which he
invades for the second time; the Confederation of the Rhine, which he has made and which he
directs; Westphalia and Holland, where his brothers are only his lieutenants; Prussia, which
he has subdued and mutilated and which he oppresses, and the strongholds of which he still
retains; and, add a last mental tableau, that which represents the northern seas, the Atlantic
and the Mediterranean, all the fleets of the continent at sea and in port from Dantzic to Flessingen
and Bayonne, from Cadiz to Toulon and Gaëta, from Tarentum to Venice, Corfu, and Constantinople.[1169]--On
the psychological and moral atlas, besides a primitive gap which he will never fill up, because
this is a characteristic trait, there are some estimates which are wrong, especially with regard
to the Pope and to Catholic conscience. In like manner he rates the energy of national sentiment
in Spain and Germany too low. He rates too high his own prestige in France and in the countries
annexed to her, the balance of confidence and zeal on which he may rely. But these errors are
rather the product of his will than of his intelligence, he recognizes them at intervals; if
he has illusions it is because he fabricates them; left to himself his good sense would rest
infallible, it is only his passions which blurred the lucidity of his intellect.--As to the
other two atlases, the topographical and the military, they are as complete and as exact as
ever; No matter how much the realities they contain will swell and daily become ever more complex,
they continue to correspond to it in their fullness and precision, trait for trait.

V. His Imagination and its Excesses.

     His constructive imagination.--His projects and dreams.
     --Manifestation of the master faculty and its excesses.

But this multitude of information and observations form only the smallest portion of the mental
population swarming in this immense brain; for, on his idea of the real, germinate and swarm
his concepts of the possible; without these concepts there would be no way to handle and transform
things, and that he did handle and transform them we all know. Before acting, he has decided
on his plan, and if this plan is adopted, it is one among several others,[1170] after examining,
comparing, and giving it the preference; he has accordingly thought over all the others. Behind
each combination adopted by him we detect those he has rejected; there are dozens of them behind
each of his decisions, each maneuver effected, each treaty signed, each decree promulgated,
each order issued, and I venture to say, behind almost every improvised action or word spoken.
For calculation enters into everything he does, even into his apparent expansiveness, also
into his outbursts when in earnest; if he gives way to these, it is on purpose, foreseeing
the effect, with a view to intimidate or to dazzle. He turns everything in others as well as
in himself to account--his passion, his vehemence, his weaknesses, his talkativeness, he exploits
it all for the advancement of the edifice he is constructing.[1171] Certainly among his diverse
faculties, however great, that of the constructive imagination is the most powerful. At the
very beginning we feel its heat and boiling intensity beneath the coolness and rigidity of
his technical and positive instructions.

"When I plan a battle," said he to Roederer, "no man is more spineless than I am. I over exaggerate
to myself all the dangers and all the evils that are possible under the circumstances. I am
in a state of truly painful agitation. But this does not prevent me from appearing quite composed
to people around me; I am like a woman giving birth to a child.[1172]

Passionately, in the throes of the creator, he is thus absorbed with his coming creation; he
already anticipates and enjoys living in his imaginary edifice. "General," said Madame de Clermont-Tonnerre
to him, one day, "you are building behind a scaffolding which you will take down when you have
done with it." "Yes, Madame, that's it," replied Bonaparte; "you are right. I am always living
two years in advance."[1173] His response came with "incredible vivacity," as if a sudden inspiration,
that of a soul stirred in its innermost fiber.--Here as well, the power, the speed, fertility,
play, and abundance of his thought seem unlimited. What he has accomplished is astonishing,
but what he has undertaken is more so; and whatever he may have undertaken is far surpassed
by what he has imagined. However vigorous his practical faculty, his poetical faculty is stronger;
it is even too vigorous for a statesman; its grandeur is exaggerated into enormity, and its
enormity degenerates into madness. In Italy, after the 18th of Fructidor, he said to Bourrienne:

"Europe is a molehill; never have there been great empires and great revolutions, except in
the Orient, with its 600,000,000 inhabitants."[1174]

The following year at Saint-Jean d'Acre, on the eve of the last assault, he added

"If I succeed I shall find in the town the pasha's treasure and arms for 300,000 men. I stir
up and arm all Syria.... I march on Damascus and Aleppo; as I advance in the country my army
will increase with the discontented. I proclaim to the people the abolition of slavery, and
of the tyrannical government of the pashas. I reach Constantinople with armed masses. [1175]

Become consul, and then emperor, he often referred to this happy period, when, "rid of the
restraints of a troublesome civilization," he could imagine at will and construct at pleasure.[1176]

"I created a religion; I saw myself on the road to Asia, mounted on an elephant, with a turban
on my head, and in my hand a new Koran, which I composed to suit myself."

Confined to Europe, he thinks, after 1804, that he will reorganize Charlemagne's empire.

"The French Empire will become the mother country of other sovereignties... I mean that every
king in Europe shall build a grand palace at Paris for his own use; on the coronation of the
Emperor of the French these kings will come and occupy it; they will grace this imposing ceremony
with their presence, and honor it with their salutations."[1177] The Pope will come; he came
to the first one; he must necessarily return to Paris, and fix himself there permanently. Where
could the Holy See be better off than in the new capital of Christianity, under Napoleon, heir
to Charlemagne, and temporal sovereign of the Sovereign Pontiff? Through the temporal the emperor
will control the spiritual,[1178] and through the Pope, consciences."

In November, 1811, unusually excited, he says to De Pradt:

"In five years I shall be master of the world; only Russia will remain, but I will crush her.[1179]...
Paris will extend out to St. Cloud."

To render Paris the physical capital of Europe is, through his own confession, "one of his
constant dreams."

"At times," he says,[1180]"I would like to see her a city of two, three, four millions of inhabitants,
something fabulous, colossal, unknown down to our day, and its public establishments adequate
to its population.... Archimedes proposed to lift the world if he could be allowed to place
his lever; for myself, I would have changed it wherever I could have been allowed to exercise
my energy, perseverance, and budgets."

At all events, he believes so; for however lofty and badly supported the next story of his
structure may be, he has always ready a new story, loftier and more unsteady, to put above
it. A few months before launching himself, with all Europe at his back, against Russia, he
said to Narbonne:[1181]

"After all, my dear sir, this long road is the road to India. Alexander started as far off
as Moscow to reach the Ganges; this has occurred to me since St. Jean d'Acre.... To reach England
to-day I need the extremity of Europe, from which to take Asia in the rear.... Suppose Moscow
taken, Russia subdued, the czar reconciled, or dead through some court conspiracy, perhaps
another and dependent throne, and tell me whether it is not possible for a French army, with
its auxiliaries, setting out from Tiflis, to get as far as the Ganges, where it needs only
a thrust of the French sword to bring down the whole of that grand commercial scaffolding throughout
India. It would be the most gigantic expedition, I admit, but practicable in the nineteenth
century. Through it France, at one stroke, would secure the independence of the West and the
freedom of the seas."

While uttering this his eyes shone with strange brilliancy, and he accumulates subjects, weighing
obstacles, means, and chances: the inspiration is under full headway, and he gives himself
up to it. The master faculty finds itself suddenly free, and it takes flight; the artist,[1182]
locked up in politics, has escaped from his sheath; he is creating out of the ideal and the
impossible. We take him for what he is, a posthumous brother of Dante and Michael Angelo. In
the clear outlines of his vision, in the intensity, coherency, and inward logic of his dreams,
in the profundity of his meditations, in the superhuman grandeur of his conceptions, he is,
indeed, their fellow and their equal. His genius is of the same stature and the same structure;
he is one of the three sovereign minds of the Italian Renaissance. Only, while the first two
operated on paper and on marble, the latter operates on the living being, on the sensitive
and suffering flesh of humanity.

*****

[Footnote 1101: Reforms introduced by Napoleon after his coup d'état 9 Nov. 1799. (SR.)]

[Footnote 1102: The main authority is, of course, the "correspondance de l'Empereur Napoléon
I.," in thirty-two-volumes. This correspondance, unfortunately, is still incomplete, while,
after the sixth volume, it must not be forgotten that much of it has been purposely stricken
out. "In general," say the editors (XVI., p.4), "we have been governed simply by this plain
rule, that we were required to publish only what the Emperor himself would have given to the
public had he survived himself, and, anticipating the verdict of time, exposed to posterity
his own personality and system."--The savant who has the most carefully examined this correspondence,
entire in the French archives, estimates that it comprises about 80,000 pieces, of which 30,000
have been published in the collection referred to; passages in 20,000 of the others have been
stricken out on account of previous publication, and about 30,000 more, through considerations
of propriety or policy. For example, but little more than one-half of the letters from Napoleon
to Bigot de Préameneu on ecclesiastical matters have been published; many of these omitted
letters, all important and characteristic, may be found in "L'Église romaine et le Premier
Empire," by M. d'Haussonville. The above-mentioned savant estimates the number of important
letters not yet published at 2,000.]

[Footnote 1103: "Mémorial de Sainte Héléne," by Las Casas (May 29, 1816).--"In Corsica, Paoli,
on a horseback excursion, explained the positions to him, the places where liberty found resistance
or triumphed. Estimating the character of Napoleon by what he saw of it through personal observation,
Paoli said to him, "Oh, Napoleon, there is nothing modern in you, you belong wholly to Plutarch!"--Antonomarchi,
"Mémoires," Oct. 25, 1819. The same account, slightly different, is there given: "Oh. Napoleon,"
said Paoli to me, "you do not belong to this century; you talk like one of Plutarch's characters.
Courage, you will take flight yet!"]

[Footnote 1104: De Ségur, "Histoire et Mémoires," I., 150. (Narrative by Pontécoulant, member
of the committee in the war, June, 1795.) "Boissy d'Anglas told him that he had seen the evening
before a little Italian, pale, slender, and puny, but singularly audacious in his views and
in the vigor of his expressions.--The next day, Bonaparte calls on Pontécou1ant, Attitude rigid
through a morbid pride, poor exterior, long visage, hollow and bronzed.... He is just from
the army and talks like one who knows what he is talking about."]

[Footnote 1105: Coston, "Biographie des premières années de Napoléon Buonaparte," 2 vols. (1840),
passim.--Yung, "Bonaparte et son Temps," I., 300, 302. (Pièces généalogiques.)--King Joseph,
"Mémoires," I., 109, 111. (On the various branches and distinguished men of the Bonaparte family.)--Miot
de Melito, "Mémoires," II., 30. (Documents on the Bonaparte family, collected on the spot by
the author in 1801.)]

[Footnote 1106: "Mémorial," May 6, 1816.--Miot de Melito, II., 30. (On the Bonapartes of San
Miniato): "The last offshoot of this branch was a canon then still living in this same town
of San Miniato, and visited by Bonaparte in the year IV, when he came to Florence."]

[Footnote 1107: "Correspondance de l'Empereur Napoléon I." (Letter of Bonaparte, Sept.29, 1797,
in relation to Italy): "A people at bottom inimical to the French through the prejudices, character,
and customs of centuries."]

[Footnote 1108: Miot de Melito, I., 126, (1796): "Florence, for two centuries and a half, had
lost that antique energy which, in the stormy times of the Republic, distinguished this city.
Indolence was the dominant spirit of all classes.. . Almost everywhere I saw only men lulled
to rest by the charms of the most exquisite climate, occupied solely with the details of a
monotonous existence, and tranquilly vegetating under its beneficent sky."--(On Milan, in 1796,
cf. Stendhal, introduction to the "Chartreuse de Parme.")]

[Footnote 1109: "Miot de Melito," I., 131: "Having just left one of the most civilized cities
in Italy, it was not without some emotion that I found myself suddenly transported to a country
(Corsica) which, in its savage aspect, its rugged mountains, and its inhabitants uniformly
dressed in coarse brown cloth, contrasted so strongly with the rich and smiling landscape of
Tuscany, and with the comfort, I should almost say elegance, of costume worn by the happy cultivators
of that fertile soil."]

[Footnote 1110: Miot de Melito, II., 30: "Of a not very important family of Sartène."--II.,
143. (On the canton of Sartène and the Vendettas of 1796).--Coston, I., 4: "The family of Madame
Laetitia, sprung from the counts of Cotalto, came originally from Italy."]

[Footnote 1111: His father, Charles Bonaparte, weak and even frivolous, "too fond of pleasure
to care about his children," and to see to his affairs, tolerably learned and an indifferent
head of a family, died at the age of thirty-nine of a cancer in the stomach, which seems to
be the only bequest he made to his son Napoleon.--His mother, on the contrary, serious, authoritative,
the true head of a family, was, said Napoleon, "hard in her affections she punished and rewarded
without distinction, good or bad; she made us all feel it."--On becoming head of the household,
"she was too parsimonious-even ridiculously so. This was due to excess of foresight on her
part; she had known want, and her terrible sufferings were never out of her mind.... Paoli
had tried persuasion with her before resorting to force... . Madame replied heroically, as
a Cornelia would have done.... From 12 to 15,000 peasants poured down from the mountains of
Ajaccio; our house was pillaged and burnt, our vines destroyed, and our flocks. ... In other
respects, this woman, from whom it would have been so difficult to extract five francs, would
have given up everything to secure my return from Elba, and after Waterloo she offered me all
she possessed to restore my affairs." (" Mémorial," May 29, 1816, and "Mémoires d'Antonomarchi,"
Nov. 18, 1819.--On the ideas and ways of Bonaparte's mother, read her "Conversation" in "Journal
et Mémoires," vol. IV., by Stanislas Girardin.) Duchesse d'Abrantès," Mémoires," II., 318,
369. "Avaricious out of all reason except on a few grave occasions.... No knowledge whatever
of the usages of society.... very ignorant, not alone of our literature, but of her own."--Stendhal,
"Vie de Napoleon": "The character of her son is to be explained by the perfectly Italian character
of Madame Laetitia."]

[Footnote 1112: The French conquest is effected by armed force between July 30, 1768, and May
22, 1769. The Bonaparte family submitted May 23, 1769, and Napoleon was born on the following
15th of August.]

[Footnote 1113: Antonomarchi, "Mémoires," October 4, 1819. "Mémorial," May 29, 1816.]

[Footnote 1114: "Miot de Melito," II., 33: "The day I arrived at Bocognano two men lost their
lives through private vengeance. About eight years before this one of the inhabitants of the
canton had killed a neighbor, the father of two children.... On reaching the age of sixteen
or seventeen years these children left the country in order to dog the steps of the murderer,
who kept on the watch, not daring to go far from his village.... Finding him playing cards
under a tree, they fired at and killed him, and besides this accidentally shot another man
who was asleep a few paces off. The relatives on both sides pronounced the act justifiable
and according to rule." Ibid., I., 143: "On reaching Bastia from Ajaccio the two principal
families of the place, the Peraldi and the Visuldi, fired at each other, in disputing over
the honor of entertaining me."]

[Footnote 1115: Bourrienne, "Mémoires," I., 18, 19.]

[Footnote 1116: De Ségur, "Histoire et Mémoires," I,, 74.]

[Footnote 1117: Yung, I., 195. (Letter of Bonaparte to Paoli, June 12, 1789); I., 250 (Letter
of Bonaparte to Buttafuoco, January 23 1790).]

[Footnote 1118: Yung, I., 107 (Letter of Napoleon to his father, Sept. 12, 1784); I., 163 (Letter
of Napoleon to Abbé Raynal, July, 1786); I., 197 (Letter of Napoleon to Paoli, June 12, 1789).
The three letters on the history of Corsica are dedicated to Abbé Raynal in a letter of June
24, 1790, and may be found in Yung, I., 434.]

[Footnote 1119: Read especially his essay "On the Truths and Sentiments most important to inculcate
on Men for their Welfare" (a subject proposed by the Academy of Lyons in 1790). "Some bold
men driven by genius.. .. Perfection grows out of reason as fruit out of a tree.... Reason's
eyes guard man from the precipice of the passions... The spectacle of the strength of virtue
was what the Lacedaemonians principally felt.... Must men then be lucky in the means by which
they are led on to happiness?.... My rights (to property) are renewed along with my transpiration,
circulate in my blood, are written on my nerves, on my heart.... Proclaim to the rich--your
wealth is your misfortune, withdrawn within the latitude of your senses.... Let the enemies
of nature at thy voice keep silence and swallow their rabid serpents' tongues.... The wretched
shun the society of men, the tapestry of gayety turns to mourning.... Such, gentlemen, are
the Sentiments which, in animal relations, mankind should have taught it for its welfare."]

[Footnote 1120: Yung, I., 252 (Letter to Buttafuoco). "Dripping with the blood of his brethren,
sullied by every species of crime, he presents himself with confidence under his vest of a
general, the sole reward of his criminalities."--I., 192 (Letter to the Corsican Intendant,
April 2, 1879). "Cultivation is what ruins us"--See various manuscript letters, copied by Yung,
for innumerable and gross mistakes in French.--Miot de Melito, I., 84 (July, 1796). "He spoke
curtly and, at this time, very incorrectly."--Madame de Rémusat, I., 104. "Whatever language
he spoke it never seemed familiar to him; he appeared to force himself in expressing his ideas."--Notes
par le Comte Chaptal (unpublished), councillor of state and afterwards minister of the interior
under the Consulate: "At this time, Bonaparte did not blush at the slight knowledge of administrative
details which he possessed; he asked a good many questions and demanded definitions and the
meaning of the commonest words in use. As it very often happened with him not to clearly comprehend
words which he heard for the first time, he always repeated these afterwards as he understood
them; for example, he constantly used section for session, armistice for amnesty, fulminating
point for culminating point, rentes voyagères for 'rentes viagères,' etc."]

[Footnote 1121: De Ségur, I., 174]

[Footnote 1122: Cf. the "Mémoires" of Marshal Marmont, I., 15, for the ordinary sentiments
of the young nobility. "In 1792 I had a sentiment for the person of the king, difficult to
define, of which I recovered the trace, and to some extent the power, twenty-two years later;
a sentiment of devotion almost religious in character, an innate respect as if due to a being
of a superior order. The word King then possessed a magic, a force, which nothing had changed
in pure and honest breasts.... This religion of royalty still existed in the mass of the nation,,
and especially amongst the well-born, who, sufficiently remote from power, were rather struck
with its brilliancy than with its imperfections.... This love became a sort of worship."]

[Footnote 1123: Bourrienne, "Mémoires," I. 27.--Ségur, I. 445. In 1795, at Paris, Bonaparte,
being out of military employment, enters upon several commercial speculations, amongst which
is a bookstore, which does not succeed. (Stated by Sebastiani and many others.)]

[Footnote 1124: "Mémorial," Aug. 3, 1816.]

[Footnote 1125: Bourrienne, I., 171. (Original text of the "Souper de Beaucaire.")]

[Footnote 1126: Yung, II., 430, 431. (Words of Charlotte Robespierre.) Bonaparte as a souvenir
of his acquaintance with her, granted her a pension, under the consulate, of 3600 francs.--Ibid.
(Letter of Tilly, chargé d'affaires at Genoa, to Buchot, commissioner of foreign affairs.)
Cf. in the "Mémorial," Napoleon's favorable judgment of Robespierre.]

[Footnote 1127: Yung, II., 455. (Letter from Bonaparte to Tilly, Aug. 7, 1794.) Ibid., III.,
120. (Memoirs of Lucien.) "Barras takes care of Josephine's dowry, which is the command of
the army in Italy." Ibid., II., 477. (Grading of general officers, notes by Schérer on Bonaparte.)
"He knows all about artillery, but is rather too ambitious, and too intriguing for promotion."]

[Footnote 1128: De Ségur, I., 162.--La Fayette, "Mémoires," II., 215. "Mémorial" (note dictated
by Napoleon). He states the reasons for and against, and adds, speaking of himself: "These
sentiments, twenty-five years of age, confidence in his strength, his destiny, determined him."
Bourrienne, I., 51: "It is certain that he has always bemoaned that day; he has often said
to me that he would give years of his life to efface that page of his history."]

[Footnote 1129: "Mémorial," I., Sept 6, 1815. "It is only after Lodi that the idea came to
me that I might, after all, become a decisive actor on our political stage. Then the first
spark of lofty ambition gleamed out." IV., books II. and III., especially pp.182, 199, 334,
335, 406, 420, 475, 489.]

[Footnote 1130: Yung, III., 213. (Letter of M. de Sucy, August 4, 1797.)]

[Footnote 1131: Ibid., III., 214. (Report of d'Entraigues to M. de Mowikinoff, Sept., 1797.)
"If there was any king in France which was not himself, he would like to have been his creator,
with his rights at the end of his sword, this sword never to be parted with, so that he might
plunge it in the king's bosom if he ever ceased to be submissive to him."--Miot de Melito,
I., 154. (Bonaparte to Montebello, before Miot and Melzi, June, 1797.) Ibid, I., 184. (Bonaparte
to Miot, Nov. 18, 1797, at Turin.)]

[Footnote 1132: D'Haussonville, "L'Église Romaine et la Premier Empire," I., 405. XXVI., and
4th part, ch. XVIII.]

[Footnote 1134: Portrait of Bonaparte in the "Cabinet des Etampes," "drawn by Guérin, engraved
by Fiesinger, deposited in the National Library, Vendémiaire 29, year VII."]

[Footnote 1135: Madame de Rémusat, "Mémoires," I., 104.--Miot de Melito, I., 84.]

[Footnote 1136: Madame de Staël, "Considerations," etc., 3rd part, ch. XXV.--Madame de Rémusat,
II., 77.]

[Footnote 1137: Stendhal, "Mémoires sur Napoléon," narration of Admiral Decrès.--Same narration
in the "Mémorial."]

[Footnote 1138: De Ségur, I., 193.]

[Footnote 1139: Roederer, "Oeuvres complétes," II., 560. (Conversations with General Lasalle
in 1809, and Lasalle's judgment on the débuts of Napoleon).]

[Footnote 1140: Another instance of this commanding influence is found in the case of General
Vandamme, an old revolutionary soldier still more brutal and energetic than Augereau. In 1815,
Vandamme said to Marshal d'Ornano, one day, on ascending the staircase of the Tuileries together:
"My dear fellow, that devil of a man (speaking of the Emperor) fascinates me in a way I cannot
account for. I, who don't fear either God or the devil, when I approach him I tremble like
a child. He would make me dash through the eye of a needle into the fire!" ("Le Général Vandamme,"
by du Casse, II., 385).]

[Footnote 1141: Roederer, III., 356. (Napoleon himself says, February 11, 1809): "I, military!
I am so, because I was born so; it is my habit, my very existence. Wherever I have been I have
always had command. I commanded at twenty-three, at the siege of Toulon; I commanded at Paris
in Vendémiaire; I won over the soldiers in Italy the moment I presented myself. I was born
for that."]

[Footnote 1142: Observe the various features of the same mental and moral structure among different
members of the family. (Speaking of his brothers and sisters in the "Memorial" I. p. 400. (This
author, a young magistrate under Louis XVI., a high functionary under the Empire, an important
political personage under the restoration and the July monarchy, is probably the best informed
and most judicious of eye-witnesses during the first half of our century.): "Their vices and
virtues surpass ordinary proportions and have a physiognomy of their own. But what especially
distinguishes them is a stubborn will, and inflexible resolution.... All possessed the instinct
of their greatness." They readily accepted "the highest positions; they even got to believing
that their elevation was inevitable.... Nothing in the incredible good fortune of Joseph astonished
him; often in January, 1814, I heard him say over and over again that if his brother had not
meddled with his affairs after the second entry into Madrid, he would still be on the throne
of Spain. As to determined obstinacy we have only to refer to the resignation of Louis, the
retirement of Lucien, and the resistances of Fesch; they alone could stem the will of Napoleon
and sometimes break a lance with him.--Passion, sensuality, the habit of considering themselves
outside of rules, and self-confidence combined with talent, super abound among the women, as
in the fifteenth century. Elisa, in Tuscany, had a vigorous brain, was high spirited and a
genuine sovereign, notwithstanding the disorders of her private life, in which even appearances
were not sufficiently maintained." Caroline at Naples, "without being more scrupulous than
her sisters," better observed the proprieties; none of the others so much resembled the Emperor;
"with her, all tastes succumbed to ambition"; it was she who advised and prevailed upon her
husband, Murat, to desert Napoleon in 1814. As to Pauline, the most beautiful woman of her
epoch, "no wife, since that of the Emperor Claude, surpassed her in the use she dared make
of her charms; nothing could stop her, not even a malady attributed to the strain of this life-style
and for which we have so often seen her borne in a litter."--Jerome, "in spite of the uncommon
boldness of his debaucheries, maintained his ascendancy over his wife to the last."--On the
"pressing efforts and attempts" of Joseph on Maria Louise in 1814, Chancelier Pasquier, after
Savary's papers and the evidence of M. de Saint-Aignan, gives extraordinary details.--"Mes
souvenirs sur Napoléon, 346, by the count Chaptal: "Every member of this numerous family (Jérôme,
Louis, Joseph, the Bonaparte sisters) mounted thrones as if they had recovered so much property."]

[Footnote 1143: Burkhardt, "Die Renaissance in Italien," passim.--Stendhal, "Histoire de la
peinture en Italie"(introduction), and" Rome, Naples, et Florence," passim.--"Notes par le
Comte Chaptal": When these notes are published, many details will be found in them in support
of the judgment expressed in this and the following chapters. The psychology of Napoleon as
here given is largely confirmed by them.]

[Footnote 1144: Roederer, III, 380 (1802).]

[Footnote 1145: Napoleon uses the French word just which means both fair, justifiable, pertinent,
correct, and in music true.]

[Footnote 1146: "Mémorial."]

[Footnote 1147: De Pradt, "Histoire de l'Ambassade dans la grande-duché de Varsovie en 1812,"
preface, p. X, and 5.]

[Footnote 1148: Roederer, III., 544 (February 24, 1809). Cf. Meneval, "Napoléon et Marie-Louise,
souvenirs historiques," I., 210-213.]

[Footnote 1149: Pelet de la Lozère," Opinions de Napoléon au conseil d'état," p.8.--Roederer,
III., 380.]

[Footnote 1150: Mollien, "Mémoires," I., 379; II., 230.--Roederer, III., 434. "He is at the
head of all things. He governs, administrates, negotiates, works eighteen hours a day, with
the clearest and best organized head; he has governed more in three years than kings in a hundred
years."--Lavalette, "Mémoires," II., 75. (The words of Napoleon's secretary on Napoleon's labor
in Paris, after Leipsic) "He retires at eleven, but gets up at three o'clock in the morning,
and until the evening there is not a moment he does not devote to work. It is time this stopped,
for he will be used up, and myself before he is."--Gaudin, Duc de Gaëte, "Mémoires," III. (supplement),
p.75. Account of an evening in which, from eight o'clock to three in the morning, Napoleon
examines with Gaudin his general budget, during seven consecutive hours, without stopping a
minute.--Sir Neil Campbell, "Napoléon at Fontainebleau and at Elbe," p.243. "Journal de Sir
Neil Campbell a' l'ile d'Elbe": I never saw any man, in any station in life, so personally
active and so persistent in his activity. He seems to take pleasure in perpetual motion and
in seeing those who accompany him completely tired out, which frequently happened in my case
when I accompanied him.. . Yesterday, after having been on his legs from eight in the morning
to three in the afternoon, visiting the frigates and transports, even to going down to the
lower compartments among the horses, he rode on horseback for three hours, and, as he afterwards
said to me, to rest himself."]

[Footnote 1151: The starting-point of the great discoveries of Darwin is the physical, detailed
description he made in his study of animals and plants, as living; during the whole course
of life, through so many difficulties and subject to a fierce competition. This study is wholly
lacking in the ordinary zoologist or botanist, whose mind is busy only with anatomical preparations
or collections of plants. In every science, the difficulty lies in describing in a nutshell,
using significant examples, the real object, just as it exists before us, and its true history.
Claude Bernard one day remarked to me, "We shall know physiology when we are able to follow
step by step a molecule of carbon or azote in the body of a dog, give its history, and describe
its passage from its entrance to its exit."]

[Footnote 1152: Thibaudeau, "Mémoires sur le Consulat," 204. (Apropos of the tribunate): "They
consist of a dozen or fifteen metaphysicians who ought to be flung into the water; they crawl
all over me like vermin."]

[Footnote 1153: Madame de Rémusat, I., 115: "He is really ignorant, having read very little
and always hastily."--Stendhal, "Mémoires sur Napoleon": "His education was very defective....He
knew nothing of the great principles discovered within the past one hundred years," and just
those which concern man or society. "For example, he had not read Montesquieu as this writer
ought to be read, that is to say, in a way to accept or decidedly reject each of the thirty-one
books of the 'Esprit des lois.' He had not thus read Bayle's Dictionary nor the Essay on the
Wealth of Nations by Adam Smith. This ignorance of the Emperor's was not perceptible in conversation,
and first, because he led in conversation, and next because with Italian finesse no question
put by him, or careless supposition thrown out, ever betrayed that ignorance."--Bourrienne.
I., 19, 21: At Brienne, "unfortunately for us, the monks to whom the education of youth was
confided knew nothing, and were too poor to pay good foreign teachers.... It is inconceivable
how any capable man ever graduated from this educational institution."--Yung, I., 125 (Notes
made by him on Bonaparte, when he left the Military Academy): "Very fond of the abstract sciences,
indifferent to others, well grounded in mathematics and geography."]

[Footnote 1154: Roederer, III., 544 (March 6, 1809), 26, 563 (Jan. 23, 1811, and Nov. 12, 1813).]

[Footnote 1155: Mollien, I., 348 (a short time before the rupture of the peace of Amiens),
III., 16: "It was at the end of January, 1809, that he wanted a full report of the financial
situation on the 31st of December, 1808 .... This report was to be ready in two days."--III.,
34: "A complete balance sheet of the public treasury for the first six months of 1812 was under
Napoleon's eyes at Witebsk, the 11th of August, eleven days after the close of these first
six months. What is truly wonderful is, that amidst so many different occupations and preoccupations....
he could preserve such an accurate run of the proceedings and methods of the administrative
branches about which he wanted to know at any moment. Nobody had any excuse for not answering
him, for each was questioned in his own terms; it is that singular aptitude of the head of
the State, and the technical precision of his questions, which alone explains how he could
maintain such a remarkable ensemble in an administrative system of which the smallest threads
centered in himself."]

[Footnote 1156: 200 years after the death of Napoleon Sir Alfred Ayer thus writes in "LANGUAGE,
TRUTH AND LOGIC": 'Actually, we shall see that the only test to which a form of scientific
procedure which satisfies the necessary condition of self-consistency is subject, is the test
of its success in practice. We are entitled to have faith in our procedure just so long as
it does the work it is designed to do--that is, enables us to predict future experience, and
so to control our environment.' And on the Purpose of Inquiry: 'The traditional disputes of
philosophers are, for the most part, as unwarranted as they are unfruitful. The surest way
to end them is to establish beyond question what should be the purpose and the method of philosophical
inquiry.' (SR.)]

[Footnote 1157: An expression of Mollien.]

[Footnote 1158: Meneval, I., 210, 213.--Roederer, III., 537, 545 (February and March, 1889):
Words of Napoleon: "At this moment it was nearly midnight."--Ibid., IV., 55 (November, 1809).
Read the admirable examination of Roederer by Napoleon on the Kingdom of Naples. His queries
form a vast systematic and concise network, embracing the entire subject, leaving no physical
or moral data, no useful circumstance not seized upon.--Ségur, II., 231: M. De Ségur, ordered
to inspect every part of the coast-line, had sent in his report: "'I have seen your reports,'
said the First Consul to me, 'and they are exact. Nevertheless, you forgot at Osten two cannon
out of the four.'--And he pointed out the place, 'a roadway behind the town.' I went out overwhelmed
with astonishment that among thousands of cannon distributed among the mounted batteries or
light artillery on the coast, two pieces should not have escaped his recollection."--"Correspondance,"
letter to King Joseph, August 6, 1806: "The admirable condition of my armies is due to this,
that I give attention to them every day for an hour or two, and, when the monthly reports come
in, to the state of my troops and fleets, all forming about twenty large volumes. I leave every
other occupation to read them over in detail, to see what difference there is between one month
and another. I take more pleasure in reading those than any young girl does in a novel."--Cadet
de Gassicourt, "Voyage en Autriche"(1809). On his reviews at Schoenbrunn and his verification
of the contents of a pontoon-wagon, taken as an example.]

[Footnote 1159: One ancient French league equals app. 4 km. (SR.)]

[Footnote 1160: Bourrienne, II., 116; IV., 238: "He had not a good memory for proper names,
words, and dates, but it was prodigious for facts and localities. I remember that, on the way
from Paris to Toulon, he called my attention to ten places suitable for giving battle.... It
was a souvenir of his youthful travels, and he described to me the lay of the ground, designating
the positions he would have taken even before we were on the spot." March 17, 1800, puncturing
a card with a pin, he shows Bourrienne the place where he intends to beat Mélas, at San Juliano.
"Four months after this I found myself at San Juliano with his portfolio and dispatches, and,
that very evening, at Torre-di-Gafolo, a league off, I wrote the bulletin of the battle under
his dictation" (of Marengo).--De Ségur, II., 30 (Narrative of M. Daru to M. De Ségur Aug. 13,
1805, at the headquarters of La Manche, Napoleon dictates to M. Daru the complete plan of the
campaign against Austria): "Order of marches, their duration, places of convergence or meeting
of the columns, attacks in full force, the various movements and mistakes of the enemy, all,
in this rapid dictation, was foreseen two months beforehand and at a distance of two hundred
leagues.... The battle-field, the victories, and even the very days on which we were to enter
Munich and Vienna were then announced and written down as it all turned out.... Daru saw these
oracles fulfilled on the designated days up to our entry into Munich; if there were any differences
of time and not of results between Munich and Vienna, they were all in our favor."--M. de La
Vallette, "Mémoires," II., p. 35. (He was postmaster-general): "It often happened to me that
I was not as certain as he was of distances and of many details in my administration on which
he was able to set me straight."--On returning from the camp at Bologna, Napoleon encounters
a squad of soldiers who had got lost, asks what regiment they belong to, calculates the day
they left, the road they took, what distance they should have marched. and then tells them,
"You will find your battalion at such a halting place."--At this time, "the army numbered 200,000
men."]

[Footnote 1161: Madame de Rémusat, I., 103, 268.]

[Footnote 1162: Thibaudeau, p.25, I (on the Jacobin survivors): "They are nothing but common
artisans, painters, etc., with lively imaginations, a little better instructed than the people,
living amongst the people and exercising influence over them."--Madame de Rémusat, I., 271
(on the royalist party): "It is very easy to deceive that party because its starting-point
is not what it is, but what it would like to have."--I., 337: "The Bourbons will never see
anything except through the Oeil de Boeuf."--Thibaudeau, p.46: "Insurrections and emigrations
are skin diseases; terrorism is an internal malady." Ibid., 75: "What now keeps the spirit
of the army up is the idea soldiers have that they occupy the places of former nobles."]

[Footnote 1163: Thibaudeau, pp.419 to 452. (Both texts are given in separate columns.) And
passim, for instance, p.84, the following portrayal of the decadal system of worship under
the Republic: "It was imagined that citizens could be got together in churches, to freeze with
cold and hear, read, and study laws, in which there was already but little fun for those who
executed them." Another example of the way in which his ideas expressed themselves through
imagery (Pelet de la Lozère, p. 242): "I am not satisfied with the customs regulations on the
Alps. They show no life. We don't hear the rattle of crown pieces pouring into the public treasury."
To appreciate the vividness of Napoleon's expressions and thought the reader must consult,
especially, the five or six long conversations, noted on the very evening of the day they occurred
by Roederer; the two or three conversations likewise noted by Miot de Melito; the scenes narrated
by Beugnot; the notes of Pelet de la Lozère and by Stanislas de Girardin, and nearly the entire
volume by Thibaudeau.]

[Footnote 1164: Pelet de la Lozère, 63, 64. (On the physiological differences between the English
and the French.)--Madame de Rémusat, I., 273, 392: "You, Frenchmen, are not in earnest about
anything, except, perhaps, equality, and even here you would gladly give this up if you were
sure of being the foremost.... The hope of advancement in the world should be cherished by
everybody.... Keep your vanity always alive The severity of the republican government would
have worried you to death. What started the Revolution? Vanity. What will end it? Vanity, again.
Liberty is merely a pretext."--III., 153 "Liberty is the craving of a small and privileged
class by nature, with faculties superior to the common run of men; this class, therefore, may
be put under restraint with impunity; equality, on the contrary, catches the multitude."--Thibaudeau,
99: "What do I care for the opinions and cackle of the drawing-room? I never heed it. I pay
attention only to what rude peasants say." His estimates of certain situations are masterpieces
of picturesque concision. "Why did I stop and sign the preliminaries of Leoben? Because I played
vingt-et-un and was satisfied with twenty." His insight into (dramatic) character is that of
the most sagacious critic. "The 'Mahomet' of Voltaire is neither a prophet nor an Arab, only
an impostor graduated out of the École Polytechnique."--"Madame de Genlis tries to define virtue
as if she were the discoverer of it."--(On Madame de Staël): "This woman teaches people to
think who never took to it, or have forgotten how."--(On Chateaubriand, one of whose relations
had just been shot): "He will write a few pathetic pages and read them aloud in the faubourg
Saint-Germain; pretty women will shed tears, and that will console him."--(On Abbé Delille):
"He is wit in its dotage."--(On Pasquier and Molé): "I make the most of one, and made the other."--Madame
de Rémusat, II., 389, 391, 394, 399, 402; III., 67.]

[Footnote 1165: Bourrienne, II., 281, 342: "It pained me to write official statements under
his dictation, of which each was an imposture." He always answered: "My dear sir, you are a
simpleton--you understand nothing!"--Madame de Rémusat, II., 205, 209.]

[Footnote 1166: See especially the campaign bulletins for 1807, so insulting to the king and
queen of Prussia, but, owing to that fact, so well calculated to excite the contemptuous laughter
and jeers of the soldiers.]

[Footnote 1167: In "La Correspondance de Napoleon," published in thirty-two volumes, the letters
are arranged under dates.--In his '"Correspondance avec Eugène, vice-roi d'Italie," they are
arranged under chapters; also with Joseph, King of Naples and afterwards King of Spain. It
is easy to select other chapters not less instructive: one on foreign affairs (letters to M.
de Champagny, M de Talleyrand, and M. de Bassano); another on the finances (letters to M. Gaudin
and to M. Mollien); another on the navy (letters to Admiral Decrès); another on military administration
(letters to General Clarke); another on the affairs of the Church (letters to M. Portalis and
to M. Bigot de Préameneu); another on the Police (letters to Fouché), etc.--Finally, by dividing
and distributing his letters according as they relate to this or that grand enterprise, especially
to this or that military campaign, a third classification could be made.--In this way we can
form a concept of the vastness of his positive knowledge, also of the scope of his intellect
and talents. Cf. especially the following letters to Prince Eugène, June II, 1806 (on the supplies
and expenses of the Italian army); June 1st and 18th, 1806 (on the occupation of Dalmatia,
and on the military situation, offensive and defensive). To Gen. Dejean, April 28, 1806 (on
the war supplies); June 27, 1806 (on the fortifications of Peschiera) July 20, 1806 (on the
fortifications of Wesel and of Juliers).--"Mes souvenirs sur Napoleon", p. 353 by the Count
Chaptal: "One day, the Emperor said to me that he would like to organize a military school
at Fontainebleau; he then explained to me the principal features of the establishment, and
ordered me to draw up the necessary articles and bring them to him the next day. I worked all
night and they were ready at the appointed hour. He read them over and pronounced them correct,
but not complete. He bade me take a seat and then dictated to me for two or three hours a plan
which consisted of five hundred and seventeen articles. Nothing more perfect, in my opinion,
ever issued from a man's brain.--At another time, the Empress Josephine was to take the waters
at Aix-la-Chapelle, and the Emperor summoned me. 'The Empress,' said he, 'is to leave to-morrow
morning. She is a good-natured, easy-going woman and must have her route and behavior marked
out for her. Write it down.' He then dictated instructions to me on twenty-one large sheets
of paper, in which everything she was to say and to do was designated, even the questions and
replies she was to make to the authorities on the way."]

[Footnote 1168: One French league equals approximately 4 km. 70,000 square leagues then equal
1,120,000 km.2, or 400,000 square miles or 11% of the United States but 5 times the size of
Great Britain. (SR.)]

[Footnote 1169: Cf. in the "Correspondance" the letters dated at Schoenbrunn near Vienna, during
August and September, 1809, and especially: the great number of letters and orders relating
to the English expeditions to Walcheren; the letters to chief-judge Régnier and to the arch-chancellor
Cambacérès on expropriations for public benefit (Aug. 21, Sept. 7 and 29); the letters and
orders to M. de Champagny to treat with Austria (Aug. 19, and Sept. 10, 15, 18, 22, and 23);
the letters to Admirable Decrès, to despatch naval expeditions to the colonies (Aug.17 and
Sept. 26); the letter to Mollien on the budget of expenditure (Aug. 8); the letter to Clarke
on the statement of guns in store throughout the empire (Sept. 14). Other letters, ordering
the preparation of two treatises on military art (Oct. 1), two works on the history and encroachments
of the Holy See (Oct. 3), prohibiting conferences at Saint-Sulpice (Sept. 15), and forbidding
priests to preach outside the churches (Sept. 24).--From Schoenbrunn, he watches the details
of public works in France and Italy; for instance, the letters to M. le Montalivet (Sept.30),
to send an auditor post to Parma, to have a dyke repaired at once, and (Oct. 8) to hasten the
building of several bridges and quays at Lyons.]

[Footnote 1170: He says himself; "I always transpose my theme in many ways."]

[Footnote 1171: Madame de Rémusat, I., 117, 120. "1 heard M. de Talleyrand exclaim one day,
some what out of humor, 'This devil of a man misleads you in all directions. Even his passions
escape you, for he finds some way to counterfeit them, although they really exist.'"--For example,
immediately prior to the violent confrontation with Lord Whitworth, which was to put an end
to the treaty of Amiens, he was chatting and amusing himself with the women and the infant
Napoleon, his nephew, in the gayest and most unconcerned manner: "He is suddenly told that
the company had assembled. His countenance changes like that of an actor when the scene shifts.
He seems to turn pale at will and his features contract"; he rises, steps up precipitately
to the English ambassador, and fulminates for two hours before two hundred persons. (Hansard's
Parliamentary History, vol. XXVI, dispatches of Lord Whitworth, pp. 1798, 1302, 1310.)--"He
often observes that the politician should calculate every advantage that could be gained by
his defects." One day, after an explosion he says to Abbé de Pradt: "You thought me angry!
you are mistaken. Anger with me never mounts higher than here (pointing to his neck)."]

[Footnote 1172: Roederer, III. (The first days of Brumaire, year VIII.)]

[Footnote 1173: Bourrienne, III., 114.]

[Footnote 1174: Bourrienne, II., 228. (Conversation with Bourrienne in the park at Passeriano.)]

[Footnote 1175: Ibid., II., 331. (Written down by Bourrienne the same evening.)]

[Footnote 1176: Madame de Rémusat, I., 274.--De Ségur, II., 459. (Napoleon's own words on the
eve of the battle of Austerlitz): "Yes, if I had taken Acre, I would have assumed the turban,
I would have put the army in loose breeches; I would no longer have exposed it, except at the
last extremity; I would have made it my sacred battalion, my immortals. It is with Arabs, Greeks,
and Armenians that I would have ended the war against the Turks. Instead of one battle in Moravia
I would have gained a battle of Issus; I would have made myself emperor of the East, and returned
to Paris by the way of Constantinople."--De Pradt, p.19 (Napoleon's own words at Mayence, September,
1804): "Since two hundred years there is nothing more to do in Europe; it is only in the East
that things can be carried out on a grand scale."]

[Footnote 1177: Madame de Rémusat, I., 407.--Miot de Melito, II., 214 (a few weeks after his
coronation): "There will be no repose in Europe until it is under one head, under an Emperor,
whose officers would be kings, who would distribute kingdoms to his lieutenants, who would
make one of them King of Italy, another King of Bavaria, here a landmann of Switzerland, and
here a stadtholder of Holland, etc."]

[Footnote 1178: "Correspondance de Napoleon I.," vol. XXX., 550, 558. (Memoirs dictated by
Napoleon at Saint Hélène.)--Miot de Melito, II., 290.--D'Hausonvillc, "l'Église Romaine et
le Premier Empire, passim.-- Mémorial." "Paris would become the capital of the Christian world,
and I would have governed the religious world as well as the political world."]

[Footnote 1179: De Pradt, 23.]

[Footnote 1180: "Mémoires et Mémorial." "It was essential that Paris should become the unique
capital, not to be compared with other capitals. The masterpieces of science and of art, the
museums, all that had illustrated past centuries, were to be collected there. Napoleon regretted
that he could not transport St. Peter's to Paris; the meanness of Notre Dame dissatisfied him."]

[Footnote 1181: Villemain, "Souvenir contemporaines," I., 175. Napoleon's statement to M. de
Narbonne early in March, 1812, and repeated by him to Villemain an hour afterwards. The wording
is at second hand and merely a very good imitation, while the ideas are substantially Napoleon's.
Cf. his fantasies about Italy and the Mediterranean, equally exaggerated ("Correspondence,"
XXX., 548), and an admirable improvisation on Spain and the colonies at Bayonne.--De Pradt.
"Mémoires sur les revolutions d'Espagne," p.130: "Therefore Napoleon talked, or rather poetised;
he Ossianized for a long time... like a man full of a sentiment which oppressed him, in an
animated, picturesque style, and with the impetuosity, imagery, and originality which were
familiar to him,... on the vast throne of Mexico and Peru, on the greatness of the sovereigns
who should possess them.. .. and on the results which these great foundations would have on
the universe. I had often heard him, but under no circumstances had I ever heard him develop
such a wealth and compass of imagination. Whether it was the richness of his subject, or whether
his faculties had become excited by the scene he conjured up, and all the chords of the instrument
vibrated at once, he was sublime."]

[Footnote 1182: Roederer, III., 541 (February 2, 1809): "I love power. But I love it as an
artist.... I love it as a musician loves his violin, for the tones, chords, and harmonies he
can get out of it."]

CHAPTER II. HIS IDEAS, PASSIONS AND INTELLIGENCE.

I. Intense Passions.

     Personality and character during the Italian Renaissance and
     during the present time.--Intensity of the passions in
     Bonaparte.--His excessive touchiness.--His immediate
     violence.--His impatience, rapidity, and need of talking.
     --His temperament, tension, and faults.

On taking a near view of the contemporaries of Dante and Michael Angelo, we find that they
differ from us more in character than in intellect.[1201] With us, three hundred years of police
and of courts of justice, of social discipline and peaceful habits, of hereditary civilization,
have diminished the force and violence of the passions natural to Man. In Italy, in the Renaissance
epoch, they were still intact; human emotions at that time were keener and more profound than
at the present day; the appetites were ardent and more unbridled; man's will was more impetuous
and more tenacious; whatever motive inspired, whether pride, ambition, jealousy, hatred, love,
envy, or sensuality, the inward spring strained with an energy and relaxed with a violence
that has now disappeared. All these energies reappear in this great survivor of the fifteenth
century; in him the play of the nervous machine is the same as with his Italian ancestors;
never was there, even with the Malatestas and the Borgias, a more sensitive and more impulsive
intellect, one capable of such electric shocks and explosions, in which the roar and flashes
of tempest lasted longer and of which the effects were more irresistible. In his mind no idea
remains speculative and pure; none is a simple transcript of the real, or a simple picture
of the possible; each is an internal eruption, which suddenly and spontaneously spends itself
in action; each darts forth to its goal and would reach it without stopping were it not kept
back and restrained by force[1202] Sometimes, the eruption is so sudden, that the restraint
does not come soon enough. One day, in Egypt,[1203] on entertaining a number of French ladies
at dinner, he has one of them, who was very pretty and whose husband he had just sent off to
France, placed alongside of him; suddenly, as if accidentally, he overturns a pitcher of water
on her, and, under the pretence of enabling her to rearrange her wet dress, he leads her into
another room where he remains with her a long time, too long, while the other guests seated
at the table wait quietly and exchange glances. Another day, at Paris, toward the epoch of
the Concordat,[1204] he says to Senator Volney: "France wants a religion." Volney replies in
a frank, sententious way, "France wants the Bourbons." Whereupon he gives Volney a kick in
the stomach and he falls unconscious; on being moved to a friend's house, he remains there
ill in bed for several days.--No man is more irritable, so soon in a passion; and all the more
because he purposely gives way to his irritation; for, doing this just at the right moment,
and especially before witnesses, it strikes terror; it enables him to extort concessions and
maintain obedience. His explosions of anger, half-calculated, half-involuntary, serve him quite
as much as they relieve him, in public as well as in private, with strangers as with intimates,
before constituted bodies, with the Pope, with cardinals, with ambassadors, with Talleyrand,
with Beugnot, with anybody that comes along,[1205] whenever he wishes to set an example or
"keep the people around him on the alert." The public and the army regard him as impassible;
but, apart from the battles in which he wears a mask of bronze, apart from the official ceremonies
in which he assumes a necessarily dignified air, impression and expression with him are almost
always confounded, the inward overflowing in the outward, the action, like a blow, getting
the better of him. At Saint Cloud, caught by Josephine in the arms of another woman, he runs
after the unlucky interrupter in such a way that "she barely has time to escape";[1206] and
again, that evening, keeping up his fury so as to put her down completely, "he treats her in
the most outrageous manner, smashing every piece of furniture that comes in his way." A little
before the Empire, Talleyrand, a great mystifier, tells Berthier that the First Consul wanted
to assume the title of king. Berthier, in eager haste, crosses the drawing-room full of company,
accosts the master of the house and, with a beaming smile, "congratulates him."[1207] At the
word king, Bonaparte's eyes flash. Grasping Berthier by the throat, he pushes him back against
the wall, exclaiming, "You fool! who told you to come here and stir up my bile in this way?
Another time don't come on such errands."--Such is the first impulse, the instinctive action,
to pounce on people and seize them by the throat; we divine under each sentence, and on every
page he writes, out-bursts and assaults of this description, the physiognomy and intonation
of a man who rushes forward and knocks people down. Accordingly, when dictating in his cabinet,
"he strides up and down the room," and, "if excited," which is often the case, "his language
consists of violent imprecations, and even of oaths, which are suppressed in what is written."[1208]
But these are not always suppressed, for those who have seen the original minutes of his correspondence
on ecclesiastical affairs find dozens of them, the b..., the p... and the swearwords of the
coarsest kind.[1209]

Never was there such impatient touchiness. "When dressing himself,[1210] he throws on the floor
or into the fire any part of his attire which does not suit him.... On gala-days and on grand
ceremonial occasions his valets are obliged to agree together when they shall seize the right
moment to put some thing on him... He tears off or breaks whatever causes him the slightest
discomfort, while the poor valet who has been the means of it meets with a violent and positive
proof of his anger. No thought was ever more carried away by its own speed. "His handwriting,
when he tries to write, "is a mass of disconnected and undecipherable signs;[1211] the words
lack one-half of their letters." On reading it over himself, he cannot tell what it means.
At last, he becomes almost incapable of producing a handwritten letter, while his signature
is a mere scrawl. He accordingly dictates, but so fast that his secretaries can scarcely keep
pace with him: on their first attempt the perspiration flows freely and they succeed in noting
down only the half of what he says. Bourrienne, de Meneval, and Maret invent a stenography
of their own, for he never repeats any of his phrases; so much the worse for the pen if it
lags behind, and so much the better if a volley of exclamations or of oaths gives it a chance
to catch up.--Never did speech flow and overflow in such torrents, often without either discretion
or prudence, even when the outburst is neither useful nor creditable the reason is that both
spirit and intellect are charged to excess subject to this inward pressure the improvisator
and polemic, under full headway,[1212] take the place of the man of business and the statesman.

"With him," says a good observer,[1213] "talking is a prime necessity, and, assuredly, among
the prerogatives of high rank, he ranks first that of speaking without interruption."

Even at the Council of State he allows himself to run on, forgetting the business on hand;
he starts off right and left with some digression or demonstration, some invective or other,
for two or three hours at a stretch,[1214] insisting over and over again, bent on convincing
or prevailing, and ending in demanding of the others if he is not right, "and, in this case,
never failing to find that all have yielded to the force of his arguments." On reflection,
he knows the value of an assent thus obtained, and, pointing to his chair, he observes:

"It must be admitted that it is easy to be brilliant when one is in that seat!"

Nevertheless he has enjoyed his intellectual exercise and given way to his passion, which controls
him far more than he controls it.

"My nerves are very irritable," he said of himself, "and when in this state were my pulse not
always regular I should risk going crazy."[1215]

The tension of accumulated impressions is often too great, and it ends in a physical break-down.
Strangely enough in so great a warrior and with such a statesman, "it is not infrequent, when
excited, to see him shed tears." He who has looked upon thousands of dying men, and who has
had thousands of men slaughtered, "sobs," after Wagram and after Bautzen,[1216] at the couch
of a dying comrade. "I saw him," says his valet, "weep while eating his breakfast, after coming
from Marshal Lannes's bedside; big tears rolled down his cheeks and fell on his plate." It
is not alone the physical sensation, the sight of a bleeding, mangled body, which thus moves
him acutely and deeply; for a word, a simple idea, stings and penetrates almost as far. Before
the emotion of Dandolo, who pleads for Venice his country, which is sold to Austria, he is
agitated and his eyes moisten.[1217] Speaking of the capitulation of Baylen, at a full meeting
of the Council of State,[1218] his voice trembles, and "he gives way to his grief, his eyes
even filling with tears." In 1806, setting out for the army and on taking leave of Josephine,
he has a nervous attack which is so severe as to bring on vomiting.[1219] "We had to make him
sit down," says an eye-witness, "and swallow some orange water; he shed tears, and this lasted
a quarter of an hour." The same nervous and stomachic crisis came on in 1808, on deciding on
the divorce; he tosses about a whole night, and laments like a woman; he melts, and embraces
Josephine; he is weaker than she is: "My poor Josephine, I can never leave you!" Folding her
in his arms, he declares that she shall not quit him; he abandons himself wholly to the sensation
of the moment; she must undress at once, sleep alongside of him, and he weeps over her; "literally,"
she says, "he soaked the bed with his tears."--Evidently, in such an organism, however powerful
the superimposed regulator, there is a risk of the equilibrium being destroyed. He is aware
of this, for he knows himself well; he is afraid of his own nervous sensibility, the same as
of an easily frightened horse; at critical moments, at Berezina, he refuses to receive the
bad news which might excite this, and, on the informer's insisting on it, he asks him again,[1220]
"Why, sir, do you want to disturb me?"--Nevertheless, in spite of his precautions, he is twice
taken unawares, at times when the peril was alarming and of a new kind; he, so clear headed
and so cool under fire, the boldest of military heroes and the most audacious of political
adventurers, quails twice in a parliamentary storm and again in a popular crisis. On the 18th
of Brumaire, in the Corps Législatif, "he turned pale, trembled, and seemed to lose his head
at the shouts of outlawry.... they had to drag him out.... they even thought for a moment that
he was going to faint."[1221] After the abdication at Fontainebleau, on encountering the rage
and imprecations which greeted him in Provence, he seemed for some days to be morally shattered;
the animal instincts assert their supremacy; he is afraid and makes no attempt at concealment.[1222]
After borrowing the uniform of an Austrian colonel, the helmet of a Prussian quartermaster,
and the cloak of the Russian quartermaster, he still considers that he is not sufficiently
disguised. In the inn at Calade, "he starts and changes color at the slightest noise"; the
commissaries, who repeatedly enter his room, "find him always in tears." "He wearies them with
his anxieties and irresolution"; he says that the French government would like to have him
assassinated on the road, refuses to eat for fear of poison, and thinks that he might escape
by jumping out of the window. And yet he gives vent to his feelings and lets his tongue run
on about himself without stopping, concerning his past, his character, unreservedly, indelicately,
trivially; like a cynic and one who is half-crazy; his ideas run loose and crowd each other
like the anarchical gatherings of a tumultuous mob; he does not recover his mastery of them
until he reaches Fréjus, the end of his journey, where he feels himself safe and protected
from any highway assault; then only do they return within ordinary limits and fall back in
regular line under the control of the sovereign intellect which, after sinking for a time,
revives and resumes its ascendancy.--There is nothing in him so extraordinary as this almost
perpetual domination of the lucid, calculating reason; his willpower is still more formidable
than his intelligence; before it can obtain the mastery of others it must be master at home.
To measure its power, it does not suffice to note its fascinations; to enumerate the millions
of souls it captivates, to estimate the vastness of the obstacles it overcomes: we must again,
and especially, represent to ourselves the energy and depth of the passions it keeps in check
and urges on like a team of prancing, rearing horses--it is the driver who, bracing his arms,
constantly restrains the almost ungovernable steeds, who controls their excitement, who regulates
their bounds, who takes advantage even of their viciousness to guide his noisy vehicle over
precipices as it rushes on with thundering speed. If the pure ideas of the reasoning brain
thus maintain their daily supremacy it is due to the vital flow which nourishes them; their
roots are deep in his heart and temperament, and those roots which give them their vigorous
sap constitute a primordial instinct more powerful than intellect, more powerful even than
his will, the instinct which leads him to center everything on himself, in other words egoism.[1223]

II. Will and Egoism.

     Bonaparte's dominant passion.--His lucid, calculating mind.
     --Source and power of the Will.--Early evidences of an
     active, absorbing egoism.--His education derived from the
     lessons of things.--In Corsica.--In France during the
     Revolution.--In Italy.--In Egypt.--His idea of Society and
     of Right.--Maturing after the 18th of Brumaire.--His idea of
     Man.--It conforms to his character

It is egoism, not a passive, but an active and intrusive egoism, proportional to the energy
and extension of his faculties developed by his education and circumstances, exaggerated by
his success and his omnipotence to such a degree that a monstrous colossal I has been erected
in society. It expands unceasingly the circle of a tenacious and rapacious grasp, which regards
all resistance as offensive, which all independence annoys, and which, on the boundless domain
it assigns to itself, is intolerant of anybody that does not become either an appendix or a
tool.--The germ of this absorbing personality is already apparent in the youth and even in
the infant.

"Character: dominating, imperious, and stubborn,"

says the record at Brienne.[1224] And the notes of the Military Academy add;[1225]

"Extremely inclined to egoism,"--"proud, ambitious, aspiring in all directions, fond of solitude,"

undoubtedly because he is not master in a group of equals and is ill at ease when he cannot rule.

"I lived apart from my comrades," he says at a later date.[1226]--"I had selected a little
corner in the playgrounds, where I used to go and sit down and indulge my fancies. When my
comrades were disposed to drive me out of this corner I defended it with all my might. My instinct
already told me that my will should prevail against other wills, and that whatever pleased
me ought to belong to me."

Referring to his early years under the paternal roof at Corsica, he depicts himself as a little
mischievous savage, rebelling against every sort of restraint, and without any conscience.[1227]
"I respected nothing and feared nobody; I beat one and scratched another; I made everybody
afraid of me. I beat my brother Joseph; I bit him and complained of him almost before he knew
what he was about." A clever trick, and one which he was not slow to repeat. His talent for
improvising useful falsehoods is innate; later on, at maturity, he is proud of this; he makes
it the index and measure of "political superiority," and "delights in calling to mind one of
his uncles who, in his infancy, prognosticated to him that he would govern the world because
he was fond of lying."[1228]

Remark this observation of the uncles--it sums up the experiences of a man of his time and
of his country; it is what social life in Corsica inculcated; morals and manners there adapted
themselves to each other through an unfailing connection. The moral law, indeed, is such because
similar customs prevail in all countries and at all times where the police is powerless, where
justice cannot be obtained, where public interests are in the hands of whoever can lay hold
of them, where private warfare is pitiless and not repressed, where every man goes armed, where
every sort of weapon is fair, and where dissimulation, fraud, and trickery, as well as gun
or poniard, are allowed, which was the case in Corsica in the eighteenth century, as in Italy
in the fifteenth century.--Hence the early impressions of Bonaparte similar to those of the
Borgias and of Macchiavelli; hence, in his case, that first stratum of half-thought which,
later on, serves as the basis of complete thought; hence, the whole foundation of his future
mental edifice and of the conceptions he subsequently entertains of human society. Afterwards,
on leaving the French schools and every time he returns to them and spends any time in them,
the same impressions, often renewed, intensify in his mind the same final conclusion. In this
country, report the French commissioners,[1229] "the people have no idea of principle in the
abstract," nor of social interest or justice. "Justice does not exist; one hundred and thirty
assassinations have occurred in ten years.... The institution of juries has deprived the country
of all the means for punishing crime; never do the strongest proofs, the clearest evidence,
lead a jury composed of men of the same party, or of the same family as the accused, to convict
him; and, if the accused is of the opposite party, the juries likewise acquit him, so as not
to incur the risk of revenge, slow perhaps but always sure."--"Public spirit is unknown." There
is no social body, except any number of small parties hostile to each other.... One is not
a Corsican without belonging to some family, and consequently attached to some party; he who
would serve none, would be detested by all.... All the leaders have the same end in view, that
of getting money no matter by what means, and their first care is to surround themselves with
creatures entirely devoted to them and to whom they give all the offices.... The elections
are held under arms, and all with violence.... The victorious party uses its authority to avenge
itself on their opponents, and multiplies vexations and outrages... . The leaders form aristocratic
leagues with each other.... and mutually tolerate abuses. They impose no assessment or collection
(of taxes) to curry favor with electors through party spirit and relationships.... Customs-duties
serve simply to compensate friends and relatives.... Salaries never reach those for whom they
are intended. The rural districts are uninhabitable for lack of security. The peasants carry
guns even when at the plow. One cannot take a step without an escort; a detachment of five
or six men is often sent to carry a letter from one post-office to another."

Interpret this general statement by the thousands of facts of which it is the summary; imagine
these little daily occurrences narrated with all their material accompaniments, and with sympathetic
or angry comments by interested neighbors, and we have the moral lessons taught to young Bonaparte.[1230]
At table, the child has listened to the conversation of his elders, and at a word uttered,
for instance, by his uncle, or at a physiognomic expression, a sign of approbation, a shrug
of the shoulders, he has divined that the ordinary march of society is not that of peace but
of war; he sees by what ruses one maintains one's-self, by what acts of violence one makes
ones way, by what sort of help one mounts upward. Left to himself the rest of the day, to the
nurse Ilaria, or to Saveria the housekeeper, or to the common people amongst whom he strays
at will, he listens to the conversation of sailors or of shepherds assembled on the public
square, and their simple exclamations, their frank admiration of well-planned ambuscades and
lucky surprises, impress more profoundly on him, often repeated with so much energy, the lessons
which he has already learned at home. These are the lessons taught by things. At this tender
age they sink deep, especially when the disposition is favorable, and in this case the heart
sanctions them beforehand, because education finds its confederate in instinct. Accordingly,
at the outbreak of the Revolution, on revisiting Corsica, he takes life at once as he finds
it there, a combat with any sort of weapon, and, on this small arena, he acts unscrupulously,
going farther than anybody.[1231] If he respects justice and law, it is only in words, and
even here ironically; in his eyes, law is a term of the code, justice a book term, while might
makes right.

A second blow of the coining-press gives another impression of the same stamp on this character
already so decided, while French anarchy forces maxims into the mind of the young man, already
traced in the child's mind by Corsican anarchy; the lessons of things provided by a society
going to pieces are the same as those of a society which is not yet formed.--His sharp eyes,
at a very early period, see through the flourish of theory and the parade of phrases; they
detect the real foundation of the Revolution, namely, the sovereignty of unbridled passions
and the conquest of the majority by the minority; conquering or conquered, a choice must be
made between these two extreme conditions; there is no middle course. After the 9th of Thermidor,
the last veils are torn away, and the instincts of license and domination, the ambitions of
individuals, fully display themselves. There is no concern for public interests or for the
rights of the people; it is clear that the rulers form a band, that France is their prey, and
that they intend to hold on to it for and against everybody, by every possible means, including
bayonets. Under this civil régime, a clean sweep of the broom at the center makes it necessary
to be on the side of numbers.--In the armies, especially in the army of Italy, republican faith
and patriotic abnegation, since the territory became free, have given way to natural appetites
and military passions.[1232] Barefoot, in rags, with four ounces of bread a day, paid in assignats
which are not accepted in the markets, both officers and men desire above all things to be
relieved of their misery; "the poor fellows, after three years of longing on the summits of
the Alps, reach the promised land, and want to enjoy it."[1233] Another spur consists in the
pride which is stimulated by the imagination and by success; add to this the necessity for
finding an outlet for their energy, the steam and high pressure of youth; nearly all are very
young men, who regard life, in Gallic or French fashion, as a party of pleasure and as a duel.
But to feel brave and to prove that one is so, to face bullets for amusement and defiantly,
to abandon a successful adventure for a battle and a battle for a ball, to enjoy ones-self
and take risks to excess, without dissimulating, and with no other object than the sensation
of the moment,[1234] to revel in excitement through emulation and danger, is no longer self-devotion,
but giving one's-self up to one's fancies; and, for all who are not harebrained, to give one's-self
up to one's fancies means to make one's way, obtain promotion, pillage so as to become rich,
like Massena, and conquer so as to become powerful, like Bonaparte.--All this is understood
between the general and his army from the very first,[1235] and, after one year's experience,
the understanding is perfect. One moral is derived from their common acts, vague in the army,
precise in the general; what the army only half sees, he sees clearly; if he urges his comrades
on, it is because they follow their own inclination. He simply has a start on them, and is
quicker to make up his mind that the world is a grand banquet, free to the first-comer, but
at which, to be well served, one must have long arms, be the first to get helped, and let the
rest take what is left.

So natural does this seem to him, he says so openly and to men who are not his intimates; to
Miot, a diplomat, and to Melzi a foreigner:

"Do you suppose, says he to them,[1236] after the preliminaries of Leoben, "that to make great
men out of Directory lawyers, the Carnots' and the Barras, I triumph in Italy? Do you suppose
also that it is for the establishment of a republic? What an idea! A republic of thirty million
men! With our customs, our vices, how is that possible? It is a delusion which the French are
infatuated with and which will vanish along with so many others. What they want is glory, the
gratification of vanity--they know nothing about liberty. Look at the army! Our successes just
obtained, our triumphs have already brought out the true character of the French soldier. I
am all for him. Let the Directory deprive me of the command and it will see if it is master.
The nation needs a chief, one who is famous though his exploits, and not theories of government,
phrases and speeches by ideologists, which Frenchmen do not comprehend.... As to your country,
Monsieur de Melzi, it has still fewer elements of republicanism than France, and much less
ceremony is essential with it than with any other... In other respects, I have no idea of coming
to terms so promptly with Austria. It is not for my interest to make peace. You see what I
am, what I can do in Italy. If peace is brought about, if I am no longer at the head of this
army which has become attached to me, I must give up this power, this high position I have
reached, and go and pay court to lawyers in the Luxembourg. I should not like to quit Italy
for France except to play a part there similar to that which I play here, and the time for
that has not yet come--the pear is not ripe."

To wait until the pear is ripe, but not to allow anybody else to gather it, is the true motive
of his political fealty and of his Jacobin proclamations: "A party in favor of the Bourbons
is raising its head; I have no desire to help it along. One of these days I shall weaken the
republican party, but I shall do it for my own advantage and not for that of the old dynasty.
Meanwhile, it is necessary to march with the Republicans," along with the worst, and' the scoundrels
about to purge the Five Hundred, the Ancients, and the Directory itself, and then re-establish
in France the Reign of Terror.--In effect, he contributes to the 18th of Fructidor, and, the
blow struck, he explains very clearly why he took part in it:

"Do not believe[1237] I did it in conformity with the ideas entertained by those with whom
I acted. I did--not want a return of the Bourbons, and especially if brought back by Moreau's
army and by Pichegru... Finally, I will not take the part of Monk, I will not play it, and
I will not have others play it.... As for myself, my dear Miot, I declare to you that I can
no longer obey; I have tasted command and I cannot give it up. My mind is made up. If I cannot
be master I will leave France."

There is no middle course for him between the two alter natives. On returning to Paris he thinks
of "overthrowing the Directory,[1238] dissolving the councils and of making himself dictator";
but, having satisfied himself that there was but little chance of succeeding, "he postpones
his design" and falls back on the second course. "This is the only motive of his expedition
into Egypt."[1239]--That, in the actual condition of France and of Europe, the expedition is
opposed to public interests, that France deprives itself of its best army and offers its best
fleet to almost certain destruction, is of little consequence provided, in this vast and gratuitous
adventure, Bonaparte finds the employment he wants, a large field of action and famous victories
which, like the blasts of a trumpet, will swell beyond the seas and renew his prestige: in
his eyes, the fleet, the army, France, and humanity exist only for him and are created only
for his service.--If, in confirmation of this persuasion, another lesson in things is still
necessary, it will be furnished by Egypt. Here, absolute sovereign, free of any restraint,
contending with an inferior order of humanity, he acts the sultan and accustoms himself to
playing the part.[1240] His last scruples towards the human species disappear; "I became disgusted
with Rousseau"; he is to say, later on, "After seeing the Orient: the savage man is a dog,"[1241]
and, in the civilized man, the savage is just beneath the skin; if the intellect has become
somewhat polished, there is no change in his instincts. A master is as necessary to one as
to the other--a magician who subjugates his imagination, disciplines him, keeps him from biting
without occasion, ties him up, cares for him, and takes him out hunting. He is born to obey,
does not deserve any better lot, and has no other right.

Become consul and afterward emperor, he applies the theory on a grand scale, and, in his hands,
experience daily furnishes fresh verifications of the theory. At his first nod the French prostrate
themselves obediently, and there remain, as in a natural position; the lower class, the peasants
and the soldiers, with animal fidelity, and the upper class, the dignitaries and the functionaries,
with Byzantine servility.--The republicans, on their side, make no resistance; on the contrary,
among these he has found his best governing instruments--senators, deputies, state councilors,
judges, and administrators of every grade.[1242] He has at once detected behind their sermonizing
on liberty and equality, their despotic instincts, their craving for command, for leadership,
even as subordinates; and, in addition to this, with most of them, the appetite for money or
for sensual pleasures. If a rude, poor puritan, like Cambon or Baudot, refuses to don the official
uniform, if two or three Jacobin generals, like Lecourbe and Delmas, grumble at the coronation
parade, Napoleon, who knows their mental grasp, regards them as ignoramuses, limited to and
rigid inside a fixed idea.--As to the cultivated and intelligent liberals of 1789, he consigns
them with a word to the place where they belong; they are "ideologists"; in other words, their
pretended knowledge is mere drawing-room prejudice and the imagination of the study. "Lafayette
is a political ninny," the eternal "dupe of men and of things."[1243] With Lafayette and some
others, one embarrassing detail remains namely:

* impartiality and generosity,

* constant care for the common good,

* respect for others,

* the authority of conscience,

* loyalty,

* and good faith.

In short, noble and pure motives.

Napoleon does not accept the denial thus given to his theory; when he talks with people, he
questions their moral nobleness. "General Dumas,"[1244] said he, abruptly, to Mathieu Dumas,
"you were one of the imbeciles who believed in liberty?" "Yes, sire, and I was and am still
one of that class." "And you, like the rest, took part in the Revolution through ambition?"
"No, sire, I should have calculated badly, for I am now precisely where I stood in 1790."

"You were not sufficiently aware of the motives which prompted you; you cannot be different
from other people; it is all personal interest. Now, take Massena. He has glory and honors
enough; but he is not content. He wants to be a prince, like Murat and like Bernadotte. He
would risk being shot to-morrow to be a prince. That is the incentive of Frenchmen."--

His system is based on this. The most competent witnesses, and those who were most familiar
with him certify to his fixed idea on this point.

"His opinions on men," writes M. de Metternich,[1245] "centered on one idea, which, unfortunately
for him, had acquired in his mind the force of an axiom; he was persuaded that no man who was
induced to appear on the public stage, or who was merely engaged in the active pursuits of
life, governed himself, or was governed, otherwise than by his interest."

According to him, Man is held through his egoistic passions, fear, cupidity, sensuality, self-esteem,
and emulation; these are the mainsprings when he is not under excitement, when he reasons.
Moreover, it is not difficult to turn the brain of man; for he is imaginative, credulous, and
subject to being carried away; stimulate his pride or vanity, provide him with an extreme and
false opinion of himself and of his fellow-men, and you can start him off head downward wherever
you please.[1246]--None of these motives is entitled to much respect, and beings thus fashioned
form the natural material for an absolute government, the mass of clay awaiting the potter's
hand to shape it. If parts of this mass are obdurate, the potter has only to crush and pound
them and mix them thoroughly.

Such is the final conception on which Napoleon has anchored himself, and into which he sinks
deeper and deeper, no matter how directly and violently he may be contradicted by palpable
facts. Nothing will dislodge him; neither the stubborn energy of the English, nor the inflexible
gentleness of the Pope, nor the declared insurrection of the Spaniards, nor the mute insurrection
of the Germans, nor the resistance of Catholic consciences, nor the gradual disaffection of
the French; the reason is, that his conception is imposed on him by his character;[1247] he
sees man as he needs to see him.

III. Napoleon's Dominant Passion: Power.

     His mastery of the will of others.--Degree of submission
     required by him.--His mode of appreciating others and of
     profiting by them.--Tone of command and of conversation.

We at last confront his dominant passion, the inward abyss into which instinct, education,
reflection, and theory have plunged him, and which is to engulf the proud edifice of his fortune--I
mean, his ambition. It is the prime motor of his soul and the permanent substance of his will,
so profound that he no longer distinguishes between it and himself, and of which he is sometimes
unconscious.

"I," said he to Roederer,[1248] "I have no ambition," and then, recollecting himself, he adds,
with his ordinary lucidity, "or, if I have any, it is so natural to me, so innate, so intimately
associated with my existence, that it is like the blood which flows in my veins and the atmosphere
I breathe."--

Still more profoundly, he likens it to that unconscious, savage, and irresistible emotion which
vibrates the soul from one end to the other, to this universal thrill moving all living beings,
animal or moral, to those keen and terrible tremors which we call the passion of love.

"I have but one passion,[1249] one mistress, and that is France. I sleep with her. She has
never been false to me. She lavishes her blood and treasures on me. If I need 500,000 men,
she gives them to me."

Let no one come between him and her. Let Joseph, in relation to the coronation, abstain from
claiming his place, even secondary and prospective, in the new empire; let him not put forth
his fraternal rights.[1250] "It is to wound me in the most tender spot." This he does, and,
"Nothing can efface that from my souvenirs. It is as if he had told an impassioned lover that
he had slept with his mistress, or merely that he hoped to succeed with her. My mistress is
power. I have worked too hard to obtain her, to let her be ravished from me, or even suffer
anybody to covet her." This ambition, as avid as it is jealous, which becomes exasperated at
the very idea of a rival, feels hampered by the mere idea of setting a limit to it; however
vast the acquired power, he would like to have it still more vast; on quitting the most copious
banquet, he still remains insatiate. On the day after the coronation he said to Decrés:[1251]

"I come too late, there is no longer anything great to accomplish. I admit that my career is
brilliant and that I have made my way successfully. But what a difference alongside of antiquity!
Take Alexander! After having conquered Asia, and proclaimed himself to the people as the son
of Jupiter, with the exception of Olympias, who knew what all this meant, and Aristotle, and
a few Athenian pedants, the entire Orient believed him. Very well, should I now declare that
I was the son of God Almighty, and proclaim that I am going to worship him under this title,
every market woman would hoot at me as I walked along the streets. People nowadays know too
much. Nothing is left to do."

And yet, even on this secluded, elevated domain, and which twenty centuries of civilization
keeps inaccessible, he still encroaches, and to the utmost, in a roundabout way, by laying
his hand on the Church, and next on the Pope; here, as elsewhere, he takes all he can get.
Nothing in his eyes, is more natural; he has a right to it, because he is the only capable one.

"My Italian people[1252] must know me well enough not to forget that there is more in my little
finger than in all their brains put together."

Alongside of him, they are children, "minors," the French also, and likewise the rest of mankind.
A diplomat, who often saw him and studied him under all as aspects, sums up his character in
one conclusive phrase:

"He considered himself an isolated being in this world, made to govern and direct all minds
as he pleased."[1253]

Hence, whoever has anything to do with him, must abandon his independence and become his tool
of government.

"That terrible man," often exclaimed Decrés[1254] "has subjugated us all! He holds all our
imaginations in his hands, now of steel and now of velvet, but whether one or the other during
the day nobody knows, and there is no way to escape from them whatever they seize on they never
let go!"

Independence of any kind, even eventual and merely possible, puts him in a bad mood; intellectual
or moral superiority is of this order, and he gradually gets rid of it;[1255] toward the end
he no longer tolerates alongside of him any but subject or captive spirits. His principal servants
are machines or fanatics, a devout worshipper, like Maret, a gendarme, like Savary,[1256] ready
to do his bidding. From the outset, he has reduced his ministers to the condition of clerks;
for he is administrator as well as ruler, and in each department he watches details as closely
as the entire mass. Accordingly, he requires simply for head of departments active pen pushers,
mute executors, docile and special hands, no need for honest and independent advisers.

"I should not know what to do with them," he said, "if they were not to a certain extent mediocre
in mind and character."

As to his generals, he admits himself that "he likes to award fame only to those who cannot
stand it." In any event, "he must be sole master in making or unmaking reputations," according
to his personal requirements. Too brilliant a soldier would become too important; a subordinate
should never be tempted to be less submissive. To this end he studies what he will omit in
his bulletins, what alterations and what changes shall be made in them.

"It is convenient to keep silent about certain victories, or to convert the defeat of this
or that marshal into a success. Sometimes a general learns by a bulletin of an action that
he was never in and of a speech that he never made."

If he complains, he is notified to keep still, or by way of recompense he is allowed to pillage,
levy contributions, and enrich himself. On becoming duke or hereditary prince, with half a
million or a million of revenue from his estate, he is not less held in subjection, for the
creator has taken precautions against his own creations.

"There are men,"[1257] he said, "who I have made independent, but I know well where to find
them and keep them from being ungrateful."

In effect, if he has endowed them magnificently it is with domains assigned to them in conquered
countries, which insures their fortune being his fortune. Besides, in order that they may not
enjoy any pecuniary stability, he expressly encourages them and all his grand dignitaries to
make extravagant outlays; thus, through their financial embarrassments be holds them in a leash.
"We have seen most of his marshals, constantly pressed by their creditors, come to him for
assistance, which he has given as he fancied, or as he found it for his interest to attach
some one to him."[1258]

Thus, beyond the universal ascendancy which his power and genius have conferred on him, he
craves a personal, supplementary, and irresistible hold on everybody. Consequently,[1259] "he
carefully cultivates all the bad passions.... he is glad to find the bad side in a man, so
as to get him in his power"; the thirst for money in Savary, the Jacobin defects of Fouché,
the vanity and sensuality of Cambacérès, the careless cynicism and "the easy immorality" of
Talleyrand, the "dry bluntness" of Duroc, the courtier-like insipidity of Maret, "the silliness"
of Berthier; he brings this out, diverts himself with it, and profits by it. "Where he sees
no vice, he encourages weaknesses, and, in default of anything better, he provokes fear, so
that he may be ever and continually the strongest.. ..He dreads ties of affection, and strives
to alienate people from each other.... He sells his favors only by arousing anxiety; he thinks
that the best way to attach individuals to him is to compromise them, and often, even, to ruin
them in public opinion."--"If Caulaincourt is compromised," said he, after the murder of the
Duc d'Enghien, "it is no great matter, he will serve me all the better."

Once that the creature is in his clutches, let him not imagine that he can escape or withhold
anything of his own accord; all that he has belongs to him. Zeal and success in the performance
of duty, punctual obedience within limits previously designated, is not enough; behind the
functionary he claims the man. "All that may well be," he replies, to whatever may be said
in praise of him,[1260] "but he does not belong to me as I would like." It is devotion which
he exacts, and, by devotion, he means the irrevocable and complete surrender "of the entire
person, in all his sentiments and opinions." According to him, writes a witness, "one must
abandon every old habit, even the most trifling, and be governed by one thought alone, that
of his will and interests."[1261] For greater security, his servitors ought to extinguish in
themselves the critical sense. "What he fears the most is that, close to him or far off, the
faculty of judging should be applied or even preserved."

"His idea is a marble groove," out of which no mind should diverge.[1262] Especially as no
two minds could think of diverging at the same time, and on the same side, their concurrence,
even when passive, their common understanding, even if kept to themselves, their whispers,
almost inaudible, constitute a league, a faction, and, if they are functionaries, "a conspiracy."
On his return from Spain he declares, with a terrible explosion of wrath and threats,[1263]
"that the ministers and high dignitaries whom he has created must stop expressing their opinions
and thoughts freely, that they cannot be otherwise than his organs, that treason has already
begun when they begin to doubt, and that it is under full headway when, from doubt, they proceed
to dissent." If, against his constant encroachments, they strive to preserve a last refuge,
if they refuse to abandon their conscience to him, their faith as Catholics or their honor
as honest men, he is surprised and gets irritated. In reply to the Bishop of Ghent, who, in
the most respectful manner, excuses himself for not taking a second oath that is against his
conscience, he rudely turns his back, and says, "Very well, sir, your conscience is a blockhead!"[1264]
Portalis, director of the publishing office,[1265] having received a papal brief from his cousin,
the Abbé d'Astros, respected a confidential communication; he simply recommended his cousin
to keep this document secret, and declared that, if it were made public, he would prohibit
its circulation; by way of extra precaution he notified the prefect of police. But he did not
specially denounce his cousin, have the man arrested and the document seized. On the strength
of this, the Emperor, in full council of state, apostrophizes him to his face, and, "with one
of those looks which go straight through one,"[1266] declares that he has committed "the vilest
of perfidies"; he bestows on him for half an hour a hailstorm of reproaches and insults, and
then orders him out of the room as if a lackey who had been guilty of a theft. Whether he keeps
within his function or not, the functionary must be content to do whatever is demanded of him,
and readily anticipate every commission. If his scruples arrest him, if he alleges personal
obligations, if he had rather not fail in delicacy, or even in common loyalty, he incurs the
risk of offending or losing the favor of the master, which is the case with M. de Rémusat,[1267]
who is unwilling to become his spy, reporter, and denunciator for the Faubourg Saint-Germain,
who does not offer, at Vienna, to pump out of Madame d'André the address of her husband so
that M. d'André may be taken and immediately shot. Savary, who was the negotiator for his being
given up, kept constantly telling M. de Rémusat, "You are going against your interest--I must
say that I do not comprehend you!" And yet Savary, himself minister of the police, executor
of most important services, head manager of the murder of the Duc d'Enghien and of the ambuscade
at Bayonne, counterfeiter of Austrian bank-notes for the campaign of 1809 and of Russian banknotes
for that of 1812,[1268] Savary ends in getting weary; he is charged with too many dirty jobs;
however hardened his conscience it has a tender spot; he discovers at last that he has scruples.
It is with great repugnance that, in February, 1814, he executes the order to have a small
infernal machine prepared, moving by clock-work, so as to blow up the Bourbons on their return
into France.[1269] "Ah," said he, giving himself a blow on the forehead, "it must be admitted
that the Emperor is sometimes hard to serve!"

If he exacts so much from the human creature, it is because, in playing the game he has to
play, he must absorb everything; in the situation in which he has placed himself, caution is
unnecessary. "Is a statesman," said he, "made to have feeling? Is he not wholly an eccentric
personage, always alone by himself, he on one side and the world on the other?"[1270]

In this duel without truce or mercy, people interest him only whilst they are useful to him;
their value depends on what he can make out of them; his sole business is to squeeze them,
to extract to the last drop whatever is available in them.

"I find very little satisfaction in useless sentiments," said he again,[1271] "and Berthier
is so mediocre that I do not know why I waste my time on him. And yet when I am not set against
him, I am not sure that I do not like him."

He goes no further. According to him, this indifference is necessary in a statesman. The glass
he looks through is that of his own policy;[1272] he must take care that it does not magnify
or diminish objects.--Therefore, outside of explosions of nervous sensibility, "he has no consideration
for men other than that of a foreman for his workmen,"[1273] or, more precisely, for his tools;
once the tool is worn out, little does he care whether it rusts away in a corner or is cast
aside on a heap of scrap-iron. "Portalis, Minister of Justice,[1274] enters his room one day
with a downcast look and his eyes filled with tears. 'What's the matter with you, Portalis?'
inquired Napoleon, 'are you ill? 'No, sire, but very wretched. The poor Archbishop of Tours,
my old schoolmate...' 'Eh, well, what has happened to him?' 'Alas, sire, he has just died.'
'What do I care? he was no longer good for anything.'" Owning and making the most of men and
of things, of bodies and of souls, using and abusing them at discretion, even to exhaustion,
without being responsible to any one, he reaches that point after a few years where he can
say as glibly and more despotically than Louis XIV. himself,

"My armies, my fleets, my cardinals, my councils, my senate, my populations, my empire."[1275]

Addressing army corps about to rush into battle:

"Soldiers, I need your lives, and you owe them to me."

He says to General Dorsenne and to the grenadiers of the guard:[1276]

"I hear that you complain that you want to return to Paris, to your mistresses. Undeceive yourselves.
I shall keep you under arms until you are eighty. You were born to the bivouac, and you shall
die there."

How he treats his brothers and relations who have become kings; how he reins them in; how he
applies the spur and the whip and makes them trot and jump fences and ditches, may be found
in his correspondence; every stray impulse to take the lead, even when justified by an unforeseen
urgency and with the most evident good intention, is suppressed as a deviation, is arrested
with a brusque roughness which strains the loins and weakens the knees of the delinquent. The
amiable Prince Eugene, so obedient and so loyal,[1277] is thus warned:

"If you want orders or advice from His Majesty in the alteration of the ceiling of your room
you should wait till you get them; were Milan burning and you asked orders for putting out
the fire, you should let Milan burn until you got them... His Majesty is displeased, and very
much displeased, with you; you must never attempt to do his work. Never does he like this,
and he will never forgive it."

This enables us to judge of his tone with subalterns. The French battalions are refused admission
into certain places in Holland:[1278]

"Announce to the King of Holland, that if his ministers have acted on their own responsibility,
I will have them arrested and all their heads cut off."

He says to M. de Ségur, member of the Academy commission which had just approved M. de Chateaubriand's
discourse:[1279]

"You, and M. de Fontaines, as state councillor and grand master, I ought to put in Vincennes....
Tell the second class of the Institute that I will have no political subjects treated at its
meetings.....If it disobeys, I will break it up like a bad club.

Even when not angry or scolding,[1280] when the claws are drawn in, one feels the clutch. He
says to Beugnot, whom he has just berated, scandalously and unjustly,--conscious of having
done him injustice and with a view to produce an effect on the bystanders,--

"Well, you great imbecile, you have got back your brains?"

On this, Beugnot, tall as a drum-major, bows very low, while the smaller man, raising his hand,
seizes him by the ear, "a heady mark of favor," says Beugnot, a sign of familiarity and of
returning good humor. And better yet, the master deigns to lecture Beugnot on his personal
tastes, on his regrets, on his wish to return to France: What would he like? To be his minister
in Paris? "Judging by what he saw of me the other day I should not be there very long; I might
die of worry before the end of the month." He has already killed Portalis, Cretet, and almost
Treilhard, even though he had led a hard life: he could no longer urinate, nor the others either.
The same thing would have happened to Beignot, if not worse....

"Stay here.... after which you will be old, or rather we all shall be old, and I will send
you to the Senate to drivel at your ease."

Evidently,[1281] the nearer one is to his person the more disagreeable life becomes.[1282]
"Admirably served, promptly obeyed to the minute, he still delights in keeping everybody around
him in terror concerning the details of all that goes on in his palace." Has any difficult
task been accomplished? He expresses no thanks, never or scarcely ever praises, and, which
happens but once, in the case of M. de Champagny, Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is praised
for having finished the treaty of Vienna in one night, and with unexpected advantages;[1283]
this time, the Emperor has thought aloud, is taken by surprise; "ordinarily, he manifests approbation
only by his silence."--When M. de Rémusat, prefect of the palace, has arranged "one of those
magnificent fêtes in which all the arts minister to his enjoyment," economically, correctly,
with splendor and success, his wife never asks her husband[1284] if the Emperor is satisfied,
but whether he has scolded more or less.

"His leading general principle, which he applies in every way, in great things as well as in
small ones, is that a man's zeal depends upon his anxiety."

How insupportable the constraint he exercises, with what crushing weight his absolutism bears
down on the most tried devotion and on the most pliable characters, with what excess he tramples
on and wounds the best dispositions, up to what point he represses and stifles the respiration
of the human being, he knows as well as anybody. He was heard to say,

"The lucky man is he who hides away from me in the depths of some province."

And, another day, having asked M. de Ségur what people would say of him after his death, the
latter enlarged on the regrets which would be universally expressed. "Not at all," replied
the Emperor; and then, drawing in his breath in a significant manner indicative of universal
relief, he replied,

"They'll say, 'Whew!'"[1285]

IV. His Bad Manners.

     His bearings in Society.--His deportment toward Women.--His
     disdain of Politeness.

There are very few monarchs, even absolute, who persistently, and from morning to night, maintain
a despotic attitude. Generally, and especially in France, the sovereign makes two divisions
of his time, one for business and the other for social duties, and, in the latter case, while
always head of the State, he is also head of his house: for he welcomes visitors, entertains
his guests, and, that his guests may not be robots, he tries to put them at their ease.--That
was the case with Louis XIV.[1286]--polite to everybody, always affable with men, and sometimes
gracious, always courteous with women, and some times gallant, carefully avoiding brusqueness,
ostentation, and sarcasms, never allowing himself to use an offensive word, never making people
feel their inferiority and dependence, but, on the contrary, encouraging them to express opinions,
and even to converse, tolerating in conversation a semblance of equality, smiling at a repartee,
playfully telling a story--such was his drawing-room constitution. The drawing-room as well
as every human society needs one, and a liberal one; otherwise life dies out. Accordingly,
the observance of this constitution in by-gone society is known by the phrase savoir-vivre,
and, more rigidly than anybody else, Louis XIV. submitted himself to this code of proprieties.
Traditionally, and through education, he had consideration for others, at least for the people
around him; his courtiers becoming his guests without ceasing to be his subjects.

There is nothing of this sort with Napoleon. He preserves nothing of the etiquette he borrows
from the old court but its rigid discipline and its pompous parade. "The ceremonial system,"
says an eyewitness, "was carried out as if it had been regulated by the tap of a drum; everything
was done, in a certain sense, 'double-quick.'[1287]... This air of precipitation, this constant
anxiety which it inspires," puts an end to all comfort, all ease, all entertainment, all agreeable
intercourse; there is no common bond but that of command and obedience. "The few individuals
he singles out, Savary, Duroc, Maret, keep silent and simply transmit orders.... We did not
appear to them, in doing what we were ordered to do, and we did not appear to ourselves, other
than veritable machines, all resembling, or but little short of it, the elegant gilded arm-chairs
with which the palaces of Saint-Cloud and the Tuileries had just been embellished."

For a machine to work well it is important that the machinist should overhaul it frequently,
which this one never fails to do, especially after a long absence. Whilst he is on his way
from Tilsit, "everybody anxiously examines his conscience to ascertain what he has done that
this rigid master will find fault with on his return. Whether spouse, family, or grand dignitary,
each is more or less disturbed; while the Empress, who knows him better than any one, naively
says, 'As the Emperor is so happy it is certain that he will do a deal of scolding!'"[1288]
Actually, he has scarcely arrived when he gives a rude and vigorous wrench of the bolt; and
then, "satisfied at having excited terror all around, he appears to have forgotten what has
passed and resumes the usual tenor of his life." "Through calculation as well as from taste,[1289]
he never ceases to be a monarch"; hence, "a mute, frigid court.... more dismal than dignified;
every face wears an expression of uneasiness... a silence both dull and constrained." At Fontainebleau,
"amidst splendors and pleasures," there is no real enjoyment nor anything agreeable, not even
for himself. "I pity you," said M. de Talleyrand to M. de Rémusat, "you have to amuse the unamusable."
At the theatre he is abstracted or yawns. Applause is prohibited; the court, sitting out "the
file of eternal tragedies, is mortally bored.... the young ladies fall asleep, people leave
the theatre, gloomy and discontented."--There is the same constraint in the drawing-room. "He
did not know how to appear at ease, and I believe that he never wanted anybody else to be so,
afraid of the slightest approach to familiarity, and inspiring each with a fear of saying something
offensive to his neighbor before witnesses.... During the quadrille, he moves around amongst
the rows of ladies, addressing them with some trifling or disagreeable remark," and never does
he accost them otherwise than "awkwardly and ill at his ease." At bottom, he distrusts them
and is ill-disposed toward them.[1290] It is because "the power they have acquired in society
seems to him an intolerable usurpation.--"Never did he utter to a woman a graceful or even
a well-turned compliment, although the effort to find one was often apparent on his face and
in the tone of his voice.... He talks to them only of their toilet, of which he declares himself
a severe and minute judge, and on which he indulges in not very delicate jests; or again, on
the number of their children, demanding of them in rude language whether they nurse them themselves;
or again, lecturing them on their social relations."[1291] Hence, "there is not one who does
not rejoice when he moves off."[1292] He would often amuse himself by putting them out of countenance,
scandalizing and bantering them to their faces, driving them into a corner the same as a colonel
worries his canteen women. "Yes, ladies, you furnish the good people of the Faubourg Saint-Germain
with something to talk about. It is said, Madame A..., that you are intimate with Monsieur
B..., and you Madame C...., with Monsieur D." On any intrigue chancing to appear in the police
reports, "he loses no time in informing the husband of what is going on."--He is no less indiscreet
in relation to his own affairs;[1293] when it is over he divulges the fact and gives the name;
furthermore, he informs Josephine in detail and will not listen to any reproach: "I have a
right to answer all your objections with an eternal I!"

This term, indeed, answers to everything, and he explains it by adding: "I stand apart from
other men. I accept nobody's conditions," nor any species of obligation, no code whatever,
not even the common code of outward civility, which, diminishing or dissimulating primitive
brutality, allows men to associate together without clashing. He does not comprehend it, and
he repudiates it. "I have little liking,"[1294] he says, "for that vague, leveling word propriety
(convenances), which you people fling out every chance you get. It is an invention of fools
who want to pass for clever men; a kind of social muzzle which annoys the strong and is useful
only to the mediocre... Ah, good taste! Another classic expression which I do not accept."
"It is your personal enemy"; says Talleyrand to him, one day, "if you could have shot it away
with bullets, it would have disappeared long ago!"--It is because good taste is the highest
attainment of civilization, the innermost vestment which drapes human nudity, which best fits
the person, the last garment retained after the others have been cast off, and which delicate
tissue continues to hamper Napoleon; he throws it off instinctively, because it interferes
with his natural behavior, with the uncurbed, dominating, savage ways of the vanquisher who
knocks down his adversary and treats him as he pleases.

V. His Policy.

     His tone and bearing towards Sovereigns.--His Policy.--His
     means and ends.--After Sovereigns he sets populations
     against him.--Final opinion of Europe.

Such behavior render social intercourse impossible, especially among the independent and armed
personages known as nations or States. This is why they are outlawed in politics and in diplomacy
and every head of a State or representative of a country, carefully and on principle, abstains
from them, at least with those on his own level. He is bound to treat these as his equals,
humor them, and, accordingly, not to give way to the irritation of the moment or to personal
feeling; in short, to exercise self-control and measure his words. To this is due the tone
of manifestos, protocols, dispatches, and other public documents the formal language of legations,
so cold, dry, and elaborated, those expressions purposely attenuated and smoothed down, those
long phrases apparently spun out mechanically and always after the same pattern, a sort of
soft wadding or international buffer interposed between contestants to lessen the shocks of
collision. The reciprocal irritations between States are already too great; there are ever
too many unavoidable and regrettable encounters, too many causes of conflict, the consequences
of which are too serious; it is unnecessary to add to the wounds of interest the wounds of
imagination and of pride; and above all, it is unnecessary to amplify these without reason,
at the risk of increasing the obstacles of to-day and the resentments of to-morrow.--With Napoleon
it is just the opposite: his attitude, even at peaceful interviews, remains aggressive and
militant; purposely or in-voluntarily, he raises his hand and the blow is felt to be coming,
while, in the meantime, he insults. In his correspondence with sovereigns, in his official
proclamations, in his deliberations with ambassadors, and even at public audiences,[1295] he
provokes, threatens, and defies.[1296] He treats his adversary with a lofty air, insults him
often to his face, and charges him with the most disgraceful imputations.[1297] He divulges
the secrets of his private life, of his closet, and of his bed; he defames or calumniates his
ministers, his court, and his wife;[1298] he purposely stabs him in the most sensitive part.
He tells one that he is a dupe, a betrayed husband; another that he is an abettor of assassination;
he assumes the air of a judge condemning a criminal, or the tone of a superior reprimanding
an inferior, or, at best, that of a teacher taking a scholar to task. With a smile of pity,
he points out mistakes, weak points, and incapacity, and shows him beforehand that he must
be defeated. On receiving the envoy of the Emperor Alexander at Wilna,[1299] be says to him:

"Russia does not want this war; none of the European powers are in favor of it; England herself
does not want it, for she foresees the harm it will do to Russia, and even, perhaps, the greatest...
I know as well as yourself, and perhaps even better, how many troops you have. Your infantry
in all amounts to 120,000 men and your cavalry to about 60,000 or 70,000; I have three times
as many.... The Emperor Alexander is badly advised. How can he tolerate such vile people around
him--an Armfeld, an intriguing, depraved, rascally fellow, a ruined debauchee, who is known
only by his crimes and who is the enemy of Russia; a Stein, driven from his country like an
outcast, a miscreant with a price on his head; a Bennigsen, who, it is said, has some military
talent, of which I know nothing, but whose hands are steeped in blood?[12100].... Let him surround
himself with the Russians and I will say nothing.... Have you no Russian gentlemen among you
who are certainly more attached to him than these mercenaries? Does he imagine that they are
fond of him personally? Let him put Armfeld in command in Finland and I have nothing to say;
but to have him about his person, for shame!.... What a superb perspective opened out to the
Emperor Alexander at Tilsit, and especially at Erfurt!.... He has spoilt the finest reign Russia
ever saw.... How can he admit to his society such men as a Stein, an Armfeld, a Vinzingerode?
Say to the Emperor Alexander, that as he gathers around him my personal enemies it means a
desire to insult me personally, and, consequently, that I must do the same to him. I will drive
all his Baden, Wurtemburg, and Weimar relations out of Germany. Let him provide a refuge for
them in Russia!"

Note what he means by--personal insult[12101], how he intends to avenge himself by reprisals
of the worst kind, to what excess he carries his interference, how he enters the cabinets of
foreign sovereigns, forcibly entering and breaking, to drive out their councilors and control
their meetings: like the Roman senate with an Antiochus or a Prusias, like an English Resident
with the King of Oude or of Lahore. With others as at home, he cannot help but act as a master.
The aspiration for universal dominion is in his very nature; it may be modified, kept in check,
but never can it be completely stifled."[12102]

It declares itself on the organization of the Consulate. It explains why the peace of Amiens
could not last; apart from the diplomatic discussions and behind his alleged grievances, his
character, his exactions, his avowed plans, and the use he intends making of his forces form
the real and true causes of the rupture. In comprehensible sometimes even in explicit terms,
he tells the English: Expel the Bourbons from your island and close the mouths of your journalists.
If this is against your constitution so much the worse for it, or so much the worse for you.
"There are general principles of international law to which the (special) laws of states must
give way."[12103] Change your fundamental laws. Suppress the freedom of the press and the right
of asylum on your soil, the same as I have done. "I have a very poor opinion of a government
which is not strong enough to interdict things objectionable to foreign governments."[12104]
As to mine, my interference with my neighbors, my late acquisitions of territory, that does
not concern you: "I suppose that you want to talk about Piedmont and Switzerland? These are
trifles"[12105] "Europe recognizes that Holland, Italy, and Switzerland are at the disposition
of France.[12106] On the other hand, Spain submits to me and through her I hold Portugal. Thus,
from Amsterdam to Bordeaux, from Lisbon to Cadiz and Genoa, from Leghorn to Naples and to Tarentum,
I can close every port to you; no treaty of commerce between us. Any treaty that I might grant
to you would be trifling: for each million of merchandise that you would send into France a
million of French merchandise would be exported;[12107] in other words, you would be subject
to an open or concealed continental blockade, which would cause you as much distress in peace
as if you were at war." My eyes are nevertheless fixed on Egypt; "six thousand Frenchmen would
now suffice to re-conquer it";[12108] forcibly, or otherwise, I shall return there; opportunities
will not be lacking, and I shall be on the watch for them; "sooner or later she will belong
to France, either through the dissolution of the Ottoman empire, or through some arrangement
with the Porte."[12109] Evacuate Malta so that the Mediterranean may become a French lake;
I must rule on sea as on land, and dispose of the Orient as of the Occident. In sum, "with
my France, England must naturally end in becoming simply an appendix: nature has made her one
of our islands, the same as Oleron or Corsica."[12110] Naturally, with such a perspective before
them, the English keep Malta and recommence the war. He has anticipated such an occurrence,
and his resolution is taken; at a glance, he perceives and measures the path this will open
to him; with his usual clear-sightedness he has comprehended, and he announces that the English
resistance "forces him to conquer Europe...." [12111]--"The First Consul is only thirty-three
and has thus far destroyed only the second-class governments. Who knows how much time he will
require to again change the face of Europe and resurrect the Western Roman Empire?"

To subjugate the Continent in order to form a coalition against England, such, henceforth,
are his means, which are as violent as the end in view, while the means, like the end, are
given by his character. Too imperious and too impatient to wait or to manage others, he is
incapable of yielding to their will except through constraint, and his collaborators are to
him nothing more than subjects under the name of allies.--Later, at St. Helena, with his indestructible
imaginative energy and power of illusion, he plays on the public with his humanitarian illusions.[12112]
But, as he himself avows, the accomplishment of his retrospective dream required beforehand
the entire submission of all Europe; a liberal sovereign and pacificator, "a crowned Washington,
yes," he used to say, "but I could not reasonably attain this point, except through a universal
dictatorship, which I aimed at."[12113] In vain does common sense demonstrate to him that such
an enterprise inevitably rallies the Continent to the side of England, and that his means divert
him from the end. In vain is it repeatedly represented to him that he needs one sure great
ally on the Continent;[12114] that to obtain this he must conciliate Austria; that he must
not drive her to despair, but rather win her over and compensate her on the side of the Orient;
place her in permanent conflict with Russia, and attach her to the new French Empire by a community
of vital interests. In vain does he, after Tilsit, make a bargain of this kind with Russia.
This bargain cannot hold, because in this arrangement Napoleon, as usual with him, always encroaching,
threatening, and attacking, wants to reduce Alexander to the role of a subordinate and a dupe.[12115]
No clear-sighted witness can doubt this. In 1809, a diplomat writes: "The French system, which
is now triumphant, is directed against the whole body of great states,"[12116] not alone against
England, Prussia, and Austria, but against Russia, against every power capable of maintaining
its independence; for, if she remains independent, she may become hostile, and as a precautionary
step Napoleon crushes in her a probable enemy.

All the more so because this course once entered upon he cannot stop; at the same time his
character and the situation in which he has placed himself impels him on while his past hurries
him along to his future.[12117] At the moment of the rupture of the treaty of Amiens he is
already so strong and so aggressive that his neighbors are obliged, for their own security,
to form an alliance with England; this leads him to break down all the old monarchies that
are still intact, to conquer Naples, to mutilate Austria the first time, to dismember and cut
up Prussia, to mutilate Austria the second time, to manufacture kingdoms for his brothers at
Naples, in Holland and in Westphalia.--At this same date, all the ports of his empire are closed
against the English, which leads him to close against them all the ports of the Continent,
to organize against them the continental blockade, to proclaim against them an European crusade,
to prevent the neutrality of sovereigns like the Pope, of lukewarm subalterns like his brother
Louis, of doubtful collaborators or inadequate, like the Braganzas of Portugal and the Bourbons
of Spain, and therefore to get hold of Portugal, Spain, the Pontifical States, and Holland,
and next of the Hanseatic towns and the duchy of Oldenburg, to extending along the entire coast,
from the mouths of the Cattaro and Trieste to Hamburg and Dantzic, his cordon of military chiefs,
prefects, and custom-houses, a sort of net of which he draws the meshes tighter and tighter
every day, even stifling not alone his home consumer, but the producer and the merchant.[12118]--And
all this sometimes by a simple decree, with no other alleged motive than his interest, his
convenience, or his pleasure,[12119] brusquely and arbitrarily, in violation of international
law, humanity, and hospitality. It would take volumes to describe his abuses of power, the
tissue of brutalities and knaveries,[12120] the oppression of the ally and despoiling of the
vanquished, the military brigandage exercised over populations in time of war, and by the systematic
exactions practiced on them in times of peace.[12121]

Accordingly, after 1808, these populations rise against him. He has so deeply injured them
in their interests, and hurt their feelings to such an extent,[12122] he has so trodden them
down, ransomed, and forced them into his service. He has destroyed, apart from French lives,
so many Spanish, Italian, Austrian, Prussian, Swiss, Bavarian, Saxon, and Dutch lives, he has
slain so many men as enemies, he has enlisted such numbers at home, and slain so many under
his own banners as auxiliaries, that nations are still more hostile to him than sovereigns.
Unquestionably, nobody can live together with such a character; his genius is too vast, too
baneful, and all the more because it is so vast. War will last as long as he reigns; it is
in vain to reduce him, to confine him at home, to drive him back within the ancient frontiers
of France; no barrier will restrain him; no treaty will bind him; peace with him will never
be other than a truce; he will use it simply to recover himself, and, as soon as he has done
this, he will begin again;[12123] he is in his very essence anti-social. The mind of Europe
in this respect is made up definitely and unshakably. One petty detail alone shows how unanimous
and profound this conviction was. On the 7th of March the news reached Vienna that he had escaped
from the island of Elba, without its being yet known where he would land. M. de Metternich[12124]
brings the news to the Emperor of Austria before eight o'clock in the morning, who says to
him, "Lose no time in finding the King of Prussia and the Emperor of Russia, and tell them
that I am ready to order my army to march at once for France." At a quarter past eight M. de
Metternich is with the Czar, and at half-past eight, with the King of Prussia; both of them
reply instantly in the same manner. "At nine o'clock," says M. de Metternich, "I was back.
At ten o'clock aids flew in every direction countermanding army orders.... Thus was war declared
in less than an hour."

VI. Fundamental Defaults of his System.

     Inward principle of his outward deportment.--He subordinates
     the State to him instead of subordinating himself to the
     State.--Effect of this.--His work merely a life-interest.
     --It is ephemeral.--Injurious.--The number of lives it cost.
     --The mutilation of France.--Vice of construction in his
     European edifice.--Analogous vice in his French edifice.

Other heads of states have similarly passed their lives in doing violence to mankind; but it
was for something that was likely to last, and for a national interest. What they deemed the
public good was not a phantom of the brain, a chimerical poem due to a caprice of the imagination,
to personal passions, to their own peculiar ambition and pride. Outside of themselves and the
coinage of their brain a real and substantial object of prime importance existed, namely, the
State, the great body of society, the vast organism which lasts indefinitely through the long
series of interlinked and responsible generations. If they drew blood from the passing generation
it was for the benefit of coming generations, to preserve them from civil war or from foreign
domination.[12125] They have acted generally like able surgeons, if not through virtue, at
least through dynastic sentiment and family traditions; having practiced from father to son,
they had acquired the professional conscience; their first and only aim was the safety and
health of their patient. It is for this reason that they have not recklessly undertaken extravagant,
bloody, and over-risky operations; rarely have they given way to temptation through a desire
to display their skill, through the need of dazzling and astonishing the world, through the
novelty, keenness, and success of their saws and scalpels. They felt that a longer and superior
existence to their own was imposed upon them; they looked beyond them-selves as far as their
sight would reach, and so took measures that the State after them might do without them, live
on intact, remain independent, vigorous, and respected athwart the vicissitudes of European
conflict and the uncertain problems of coming history. Such, under the ancient régime, was
what were called reasons of state; these had prevailed in the councils of princes for eight
hundred years; along with unavoidable failures and after temporary deviations, these had become
for the time being and remained the preponderating motive. Undoubtedly they excused or authorized
many breaches of faith, many outrages, and, to come to the word, many crimes; but, in the political
order of things, especially in the management of external affairs, they furnished a governing
and a salutary principle. Under its constant influence thirty monarchs had labored, and it
is thus that, province after province, they had solidly and enduringly built up France, by
ways and means beyond the reach of individuals but available to the heads of States.

Now, this principle is lacking with their improvised successor. On the throne as in the camp,
whether general, consul, or emperor, he remains the military adventurer, and cares only for
his own advancement. Owing to the great defect in the education of both conscience and sentiments,
instead of subordinating himself to the State, he subordinates the State to him; he does not
look beyond his own brief physical existence to the nation which is to survive him. Consequently,
he sacrifices the future to the present, and his work is not to be enduring. After him the
deluge! Little does he care who utters this terrible phrase; and worse still, he earnestly
wishes, from the bottom of his heart that everybody should utter it.

"My brother," said Joseph, in 1803,[12126] "desires that the necessity of his existence should
be so strongly felt, and the benefit of this considered so great, that nobody could look beyond
it without shuddering. He knows, and he feels it, that he reigns through this idea rather than
through force or gratitude. If to-morrow, or on any day, it could be said, 'Here is a tranquil,
established order of things, here is a known successor; Bonaparte might die without fear of
change or disturbance,' my brother would no longer think himself secure.... Such is the principle
which governs him."

In vain do years glide by, never does he think of putting France in a way to subsist without
him; on the contrary, he jeopardizes lasting acquisitions by exaggerated annexations, and it
is evident from the very first day that the Empire will end with the Emperor. In 1805, the
five per cents being at eighty francs, his Minister of the Finances, Gaudin, observes to him
that this is a reasonable rate.[12127] "No complaint can now be made, since these funds are
an annuity on Your Majesty's life."--"What do you mean by that?"--"I mean that the Empire has
become so great as to be ungovernable without you."--"If my successor is a fool so much the
worse for him!"--"Yes, but so much the worse for France!" Two years later, M. de Metternich,
by way of a political summing up, expresses his general opinion: "It is remarkable that Napoleon,
constantly disturbing and modifying the relations of all Europe, has not yet taken a single
step toward ensuring the maintenance of his successors."[12128] In 1809, adds the same diplomat:[12129]
"His death will be the signal for a new and frightful upheaval; so many divided elements all
tend to combine. Deposed sovereigns will be recalled by former subjects; new princes will have
new crowns to defend. A veritable civil war will rage for half a century over the vast empire
of the continent the day when the arms of iron which held the reins are turned into dust."
In 1811, "everybody is convinced[12130] that on the disappearance of Napoleon, the master in
whose hands all power is concentrated, the first inevitable consequence will be a revolution."
At home, in France, at this same date, his own servitors begin to comprehend that his empire
is not merely a life-interest and will not last after he is gone, but that the Empire is ephemeral
and will not last during his life; for he is constantly raising his edifice higher and higher,
while all that his building gains in elevation it loses in stability. "The Emperor is crazy,"
said Decrees to Marmont,[12131]"completely crazy. He will ruin us all, numerous as we are,
and all will end in some frightful catastrophe." In effect, he is pushing France on to the
abyss, forcibly and by deceiving her, through a breach of trust which willfully, and by his
fault, grows worse and worse just as his own interests, as he comprehends these, diverge from
those of the public from year to year.

At the treaty of Luneville and before the rupture of the peace of Amiens,[12132] this variance
was already considerable. It becomes manifest at the treaty of Presbourg and still more evident
at the treaty of Tilsit. It is glaring in 1808, after the deposition of the Spanish Bourbons;
it becomes scandalous and monstrous in 1812, when the war with Russia took place. Napoleon
himself admits that this war is against the interests of France and yet he undertakes it.[12133]
Later, at St. Helena, he falls into a melting mood over "the French people whom he loved so
dearly."[12134] The truth is, he loves it as a rider loves his horse; as he makes it rear and
prance and show off its paces, when he flatters and caresses it; it is not for the advantage
of the animal but for his own purposes, on account of its usefulness to him; to be spurred
on until exhausted, to jump ditches growing wider and wider, and leap fences growing higher
and higher; one ditch more, and still another fence, the last obstacle which seems to be the
last, succeeded by others, while, in any event, the horse remains forcibly and for ever, what
it already is, namely, a beast of burden and broken down.--For, on this Russian expedition,
instead of frightful disasters, let us imagine a brilliant success, a victory at Smolensk equal
to that of Friedland, a treaty of Moscow more advantageous than that of Tilsit, and the Czar
brought to heel. As a result the Czar is probably strangled or dethroned, a patriotic insurrection
will take place in Russia as in Spain, two lasting wars, at the two extremities of the Continent,
against religious fanaticism, more irreconcilable than positive interests, and against a scattered
barbarism more indomitable than a concentrated civilization. At best, a European empire secretly
mined by European resistance; an exterior France forcibly superposed on the enslaved Continent;[12135]
French residents and commanders at St. Petersburg and Riga as at Dantzic, Hamburg, Amsterdam,
Lisbon, Barcelona, and Trieste. Every able-bodied Frenchman that can be employed from Cadiz
to Moscow in maintaining and administering the conquest. All the able-bodied youth annually
seized by the conscription, and, if they have escaped this, seized again by decrees.[12136]
The entire male population thus devoted to works of constraint, nothing else in prospect for
either the cultivated or the uncultivated, no military or civil career other than a prolonged
guard duty, threatened and threatening, as soldier, customs-inspector, or gendarme, as prefect,
sub-prefect, or commissioner of police, that is to say, as subaltern henchman and bully restraining
subjects and raising contributions, confiscating and burning merchandise, seizing grumblers,
and making the refractory toe the mark.[12137] In 1810, one hundred and sixty thousand of the
refractory were already condemned by name, and, moreover, penalties were imposed on their families
to the amount of one hundred and seventy millions of francs In 1811 and 1812 the roving columns
which tracked fugitives gathered sixty thousand of them, and drove them along the coast from
the Adour to the Niemen; on reaching the frontier, they were en-rolled in the grand army; but
they desert the very first month, they and their chained companions, at the rate of four or
five thousand a day.[12138] Should England be conquered, garrisons would have to be maintained
there, and of soldiers equally zealous. Such is the dark future which this system opens to
the French, even with the best of good luck. It turns out that the luck is bad, and at the
end of 1812 the grand army is freezing in the snow; Napoleon's horse has let him tumble. Fortunately,
the animal has simply foundered; "His Majesty's health was never better";[12139] nothing has
happened to the rider; he gets up on his legs, and what concerns him at this moment is not
the sufferings of his broken-down steed, but his own mishap; his reputation as a horseman is
compromised; the effect on the public, the hooting of the audience, is what troubles him, the
comedy of a perilous leap, announced with such a flourish of trumpets and ending in such a
disgraceful fall. On reaching Warsaw[12140] he says to himself, ten times over:

"There is only a step from the sublime to the ridiculous."

The following year, at Dresden, he exposes still more foolishly, openly, and nakedly his master
passion, the motives which determine him, the immensity and ferocity of his pitiless pride.

"What do they want of me?" said he to M. de Metternich.[12141] "Do they want me to dishonor
myself? Never! I can die, but never will I yield an inch of territory! Your sovereigns, born
to the throne, may be beaten twenty times over and yet return to their capitals: I cannot do
this, because I am a parvenu soldier. My domination will not survive the day when I shall have
ceased to be strong, and, consequently, feared."

In effect, his despotism in France is founded on his European omnipotence; if he does not remain
master of the Continent," he must settle with the corps législatif.[12142] Rather than descend
to an inferior position, rather than be a constitutional monarch, controlled by parliamentary
chambers, he plays double or quits, and will risk losing everything.

"I have seen your soldiers," says Metternich to him, "they are children. When this army of
boys is gone, what will you do then?"

At these words, which touch his heart, he grows pale, his features contract, and his rage overcomes
him; like a wounded man who has made a false step and exposes himself, he says violently to
Metternich:

"You are not a soldier You do not know the impulses of a soldier's breast! I have grown up
on the battle-field, and a man like me does not give a damn for the lives of a million men!"[12143]

His imperial pipe-dreams has devoured many more. Between 1804 and 1815 he has had slaughtered
1,700,000 Frenchmen, born within the boundaries of ancient France,[12144] to which must be
added, probably, 2,000,000 men born outside of these limits, and slain for him, under the title
of allies, or slain by him under the title of enemies. All that the poor, enthusiastic, and
credulous Gauls have gained by entrusting their public welfare to him is two invasions; all
that he bequeaths to them as a reward for their devotion, after this prodigious waste of their
blood and the blood of others, is a France shorn of fifteen departments acquired by the republic,
deprived of Savoy, of the left bank of the Rhine and of Belgium, despoiled of the northeast
angle by which it completed its boundaries, fortified its most vulnerable point, and, using
the words of Vauban, "made its field square," separated from 4,000,000 new Frenchmen which
it had assimilated after twenty years of life in common, and, worse still, thrown back within
the frontiers of 1789, alone, diminished in the midst of its aggrandized neighbors, suspected
by all Europe, and lastingly surrounded by a threatening circle of distrust and rancor.

Such is the political work of Napoleon, the work of egoism served by genius. In his European
structure as in his French structure this sovereign egoism has introduced a vice of construction.
This fundamental vice is manifest at the outset in the European edifice, and, at the expiration
of fifteen years, it brings about a sudden downfall: in the French edifice it is equally serious
but not so apparent; only at the end of half a century, or even a whole century, is it to be
made clearly visible; but its gradual and slow effects will be equally pernicious and they
are no less sure.

*****

[Footnote 1201: See my "Philosophy of Art" for texts and facts, Part II., ch. VI.--Other analogies,
which are too long for development here, may be found, especially in all that concerns the
imagination and love. "He was disposed to accept the marvelous, presentiments, and even certain
mysterious communications between beings.... I have seen him excited by the rustling of the
wind, speak enthusiastically of the roar of the sea, and sometimes inclined to believe in nocturnal
apparitions; in short, leaning to certain superstitions." (Madame de Rémusat, I., 102, and
III., 164.)--Meneval (III., 114) notes his "crossing himself involuntarily on the occurrence
of some great danger, on the discovery of some important fact." During the consulate, in the
evening, in a circle of ladies, he sometimes improvised and declaimed tragic "tales," Italian
fashion, quite worthy of the story-tellers of the XVth and XVIth centuries. (Bourrienne, VI.,
387, gives one of his improvisations. Cf. Madame de Rémusat, I., 102.)--As to love, his letters
to Josephine during the Italian campaign form one of the best examples of Italian passion and
"in most piquant contrast with the temperate and graceful elegance of his predecessor M. de
Beauharnais." (Madame de Rémusat, I., 143).--His other amours, simply physical, are too difficult
to deal with; I have gathered some details orally on this subject which are almost from first
hands and perfectly authentic. It is sufficient to cite one text already published: "According
to Josephine, he had no moral principle whatever; did he not seduce his sisters one after the
other? "--"I am not a man like other men, he said of himself, "and moral laws and those of
propriety do not apply to me." (Madame de Rémusat, I., 204, 206.)--Note again (II., 350) his
proposals to Corvisart.--Such are everywhere the sentiments, customs, and morality of the great
Italian personages of about the year 1500.]

[Footnote 1202: De Pradt, "Histoire de l'ambassade dans le grand-duché de Varsovie," p.96.
"with the Emperor, desire springs out of his imagination; his idea becomes passion the moment
it comes into his head."]

[Footnote 1203: Bourrienne, II., 298.--De Ségur, I., 426.]

[Footnote 1204: Bodin, "Recherches sur l'Anjou," II., 325.--"Souvenirs d'un nonagénaire," by
Besnard.--Sainte-Beuve, "Causeries du Lundi," article on Volney.--Miot de Melito, I., 297.
He wanted to adopt Louis's son, and make him King of Italy. Louis refused, alleging that this
marked favor would give new life to the reports spread about at one time in relation to this
child." Thereupon, Napoleon, exasperated, "seized Prince Louis by the waist and pushed him
violently out of the room."--" Mémorial," Oct.10, 1816. Napoleon relates that at the last conference
of Campo-Fermio, to put an end to the resistance of the Austrian plenipotentiary, he suddenly
arose, seized a set of porcelain on a stand near him and dashed it to the floor, exclaiming,
"Thus will I shatter your monarchy before a month is over!" (Bourrienne questions this story.)]

[Footnote 1205: Varnhagen von Ense, "Ausgewahlte Schriften," III., 77 (Public reception of
July 22, 1810). Napoleon first speaks to the Austrian Ambassador and next to the Russian Ambassador
with a constrained air, forcing himself to be polite, in which he cannot persist. "Treating
with I do not know what unknown personage, he interrogated him, reprimanded him, threatened
him, and kept him for a sufficiently long time in a state of painful dismay. Those who stood
near by and who could not help feeling a dismayed, stated later that there had been nothing
to provoke such fury, that the Emperor had only sought an opportunity to vent his ill-humor;
that he did it purposely on some poor devil so as to inspire fear in others and to put down
in advance any tendency to opposition. Cf. Beugnot, "Mémoires," I., 380, 386, 387.--This mixture
of anger and calculation likewise explains his conduct at Sainte Helena with Sir Hudson Lowe,
his unbridled diatribes and insults bestowed on the governor like so many slaps in the face.
(W. Forsyth, "History of the Captivity of Napoleon at Saint Helena, from the letters and journals
of Sir Hudson Lowe," III., 306.)]

[Footnote 1206: Madame de Rémusat, II., 46.]

[Footnote 1207: "Les Cahiers de Coignat." 191. "At Posen, already, I saw him mount his horse
in such a fury as to land on the other side and then give his groom a cut of the whip."]

[Footnote 1208: Madame de Rémusat, I., 222.]

[Footnote 1209: Especially the letters addressed to Cardinal Consalvi and to the Préfet of
Montenotte (I am indebted to M. d'Haussonville for this information).--Besides, he is lavish
of the same expressions in conversation. On a tour through Normandy, he sends for the bishop
of Séez and thus publicly addresses him: "Instead of merging the parties, you distinguish between
constitutionalists and non-constitutionalists. Miserable fool! You are a poor subject,--hand
in your resignation at once!"--To the grand-vicars he says, "Which of you governs your bishop--who
is at best a fool?"--As M. Legallois is pointed out to him, who had of late been absent. "Fuck,
where were you then?" "With my family." "With a bishop who is merely a damned fool, why are
you so often away, etc.?" (D'Haussonville,VI., 176, and Roederer, vol. III.)]

[Footnote 1210: Madame de Rémusat--I., 101; II., 338.]

[Footnote 1211: Ibid., I., 224.--M. de Meneval, I., 112, 347; III., 120: "On account of the
extraordinary event of his marriage, he sent a handwritten letter to his future father-in-law
(the Emperor of Austria). It was a grand affair for him. Librarie Plon, Paris 1893. I., 357);--The
gratuitous insult of M. de Metternich, in 1813, the last word of their interview ("Souvenirs
du feu duc de Broglie," I., 230).--Cf. his not less gratuitous and hazardous confidential communications
to Miot de Melito, in 1797, and his five conversations with Sir Hudson Lowe, immediately recorded
by a witness, Major Gorrequer. (W. Forsyth, I.,147, 161, 200.)]

[Footnote 1213: De Pradt, preface X]

[Footnote 1214: Pelet de la Lozére, p. 7.--Mollien, "Mémoires," II., 222.--"Souvenirs du feu
duc de Broglie," I., 66, 69.]

[Footnote 1215: "Madame de Rémusat," I., 121: I have it from Corvisart that the pulsations
of his arteries are fewer than is usual with men. He never experienced what is commonly called
giddiness." With him, the nervous apparatus is perfect in all its functions, incomparable for
receiving, recording, registering, combining, and reflecting, but other organs suffer a reaction
and are very sensitive." (De Ségur, VI., 15 and 16, note of Drs. Yvan and Mestivier, his physicians.)
"To preserve the equilibrium it was necessary with him that the skin should always fulfill
its functions; as soon as the tissues were affected by any moral or atmospheric cause.... irritation,
cough, ischuria." Hence his need of frequent prolonged and very hot baths. "The spasm was generally
shared by the stomach and the bladder. If in the stomach, he had a nervous cough which exhausted
his moral and physical energies." Such was the case between the eve of the battle of Moscow
and the morning after his entry into Moscow: "a constant dry cough, difficult and intermittent
breathing; the pulse sluggish, weak, and irregular; the urine thick and sedimentary, drop by
drop and painful; the lower part of the legs and the feet extremely oedematous." Already, in
1806, at Warsaw, "after violent convulsions in the stomach," he declared to the Count de Loban,
"that he bore within him the germs of a premature death, and that he would die of the same
disease as his father's." (De Ségur, VI., 82.) After the victory of Dresden, having eaten a
ragout containing garlic, he is seized with such violent gripings as to make him think he was
poisoned, and he makes a retrograde movement, which causes the loss of Vandamme's division,
and, consequently, the ruin of 1813. Librarie Plon, Paris 1893, (narrative of Daru, an eye-witness.)--This
susceptibility of the nerves and stomach is hereditary with him and shows itself in early youth.
"One day, at Brienne, obliged to drop on his knees, as a punishment, on the sill of the refectory,
he is seized with sudden vomiting and a violent nervous attack." De Segur, I., 71.--It is well
known that he died of a cancer in the stomach, like his father Charles Bonaparte. His grandfather
Joseph Bonaparte, his uncle Fesch, his brother Lucien, and his sister Caroline died of the
same, or of an analogous disease.]

[Footnote 1216: Meneval, I., 269. Constant, "Mémoires," V., 62. De Ségur, VI., 114, 117.]

[Footnote 1217: Marshal Marmont, "Mémoires," I., 306. Bourrienne, II., 119: "When off the political
field he was sensitive, kind, open to pity."]

[Footnote 1218: Pelet de la Lozére, p.7. De Champagny, "Souvenirs," p.103. At first, the emotion
was much stronger. "He had the fatal news for nearly three hours; he had given vent to his
despair alone by himself. He summoned me.... plaintive cries involuntarily escaped him."]

[Footnote 1219: Madame de Rémusat, I., 121, 342; II., 50; III., 61, 294, 312.]

[Footnote 1220: De Ségur, V., 348.]

[Footnote 1221: Yung, II., 329, 331. (Narrated by Lucien, and report to Louis XVIII.)]

[Footnote 1222: "Nouvelle relation de l'Itinéraire de Napoléon, de Fontainebleau à l'Ile de
l'Elbe," by Count Waldberg-Truchsees, Prussian commissioner (1885), pp.22, 24, 25, 26, 30,
32, 34, 37.--The violent scenes, probably, of the abdication and the attempt at Fontainebleau
to poison himself had already disturbed his balance. On reaching Elba, he says to the Austrian
commissioner, Koller, "As to you, my dear general, I have let you see my bare rump."--Cf. in
"Madame de Rémusat," I., 108, one of his confessions to Talleyrand: he crudely points out in
himself the distance between natural instinct and studied courage.--Here and elsewhere, we
obtain a glimpse of the actor and even of the Italian buffoon; M. de Pradt called him "Jupiter
Scapin." Read his reflections before M. de Pradt, on his return from Russia, in which he appears
in the light of a comedian who, having played badly and failed in his part, retires behind
the scenes, runs down the piece, and criticize the imperfections of the audience. (De Pradt,
p.219.)]

[Footnote 1223: The reader may find his comprehension of the author's meaning strengthened
by the following translation of a passage from his essay on Jouffroy (Philosophes classiques
du XIXth Siécle," 3rd ed.): "What is a man, master of himself? He is one who, dying with thirst,
refrains from swallowing a cooling draft, merely moistening his lips: who insulted in public,
remains calm in calculating his most appropriate revenge; who in battle, his nerves excited
by a charge, plans a difficult maneuver, thinks it out, and writes it down with a lead-pencil
while balls are whistling around him, and sends it to his colonels. In other words, it is a
man in whom the deliberate and abstract idea of the greatest good is stronger than all other
ideas and sensations. The conception of the greatest good once attained, every dislike, every
species of indolence, every fear, every seduction, every agitation, are found weak. The tendency
which arise from the idea of the greatest good constantly dominates all others and determines
all actions." TR.]

[Footnote 1224: Bourrienne, I. 21.]

[Footnote 1225: Yung, 1., 125.]

[Footnote 1226: Madame de Rémusat, I., 267.--Yung, II., 109. On his return to Corsica he takes
upon himself the government of the whole family. "Nobody could discuss with him, says his brother
Lucien; he took offence at the slightest observation and got in a passion at the slightest
resistance. Joseph (the eldest) dared not even reply to his brother."]

[Footnote 1227: Mémorial, August 27-31, 1815.]

[Footnote 1228: "Madame de Rémusat," I., 105.--Never was there an abler and more persevering
sophist, more persuasive, more eloquent, in order to make it appear that he was right. Hence
his dictations at St. Helena; his proclamations, messages, and diplomatic correspondence; his
ascendancy in talking as great as through his arms, over his subject and over his adversaries;
also his posthumous ascendancy over posterity. He is as great a lawyer as he is a captain and
administrator. The peculiarity of this disposition is never submitting to truth, but always
to speak or write with reference to an audience, to plead a cause. Through this talent one
creates phantoms which dupe the audience; on the other hand, as the author himself forms part
of the audience, he ends in not along leading others into error but likewise himself, which
is the case with Napoleon.]

[Footnote 1229: Yung, II., 111. (Report by Volney, Corsican commissioner, 1791.--II., 287.)
(Mémorial, giving a true account of the political and military state of Corsica in December,
1790.)--II., 270. (Dispatch of the representative Lacombe Saint-Michel, Sept. 10, 1793.)--Miot
de Melito I.,131, and following pages. (He is peace commissioner in Corsica in 1797 and 1801.)]

[Footnote 1230: Miot de Melito, II., 2. "The partisans of the First consul's family... regarded
me simply as the instrument of their passions, of use only to rid them of their enemies, so
as to center all favors on their protégés."]

[Footnote 1231: Yung., I., 220. (Manifest of October--31, 1789.)--I., 265. (Loan on the seminary
funds obtained by force, June 23, 1790.)--I., 267, 269. (Arrest of M. de la Jaille and other
officers; plan for taking the citadel of Ajaccio.)--II., 115. (letter to Paoli, February 17,
1792.) "Laws are like the statues of certain divinities--veiled on certain occasions."--II.,
125. (Election of Bonaparte as lieutenant-colonel of a battalion of volunteers, April 1, 1792.)
The evening before he had Murati, one of the three departmental commissioners, carried off
by an armed band from the house of the Peraldi, his adversaries, where he lodged. Murati, seized
unawares, is brought back by force and locked up in Bonaparte's house, who gravely says to
him "I wanted you to be free, entirely at liberty; you were not so with the Peraldi."--His
Corsican biographer (Nasica, "Mémoires sur la jeunesse et l'enfance de Napoléon,") considers
this a very praiseworthy action]

[Footnote 1232: Cf. on this point, the Memoirs of Marshal Marmont, I., 180, 196; the Memoirs
of Stendhal, on Napoleon; the Report of d'Antraigues (Yung, III., 170, 171); the "Mercure Britannique"
of Mallet-Dupan, and the first chapter of "La Chartreuse de Parme," by Stendhal.]

[Footnote 1233: "Correspondance de Napoléon," I. (Letter of Napoleon to the Directory, April
26, 1796.)--Proclamation of the same date: "You have made forced marches barefoot, bivouacked
without brandy, and often without bread."]

[Footnote 1234: Stendhal, "Vie de Napoléon," p. 151. "The commonest officers were crazy with
delight at having white linen and fine new boots. All were fond of music; many walked a league
in the rain to secure a seat in the La Scala Theatre.... In the sad plight in which the army
found itself before Castiglione and Arcole, everybody, except the knowing officers, was disposed
to attempt the impossible so as not to quit Italy."--"Marmont," I., 296: "We were all of us
very young,... all aglow with strength and health, and enthusiastic for glory.... This variety
of our occupations and pleasures, this excessive employment of body and mind gave value to
existence, and made time pass with extraordinary rapidity."]

[Footnote 1235: "Correspondance de Napoléon," I. Proclamation of March 27, 1796: "Soldiers,
you are naked and poorly fed. The government is vastly indebted to you; it has nothing to give
you.... I am going to lead you to the most fertile plains in the world; rich provinces, large
cities will be in your power; you will then obtain honor, glory, and wealth."--Proclamation
of April 26, 1796:--"Friends, I guarantee that conquest to you!"--Cf. in Marmont's memoirs
the way in which Bonaparte plays the part of tempter in offering Marmont, who refuses, an opportunity
to rob a treasury chest.]

[Footnote 1236: Miot de Melito, I., 154. (June, 1797, in the gardens of Montebello.) "Such
are substantially the most remarkable expressions in this long discourse which I have recorded
and preserved."]

[Footnote 1237: Miot de Melito, I. 184. (Conversation with Bonaparte, November 18, 1797, at
Turin.) "I remained an hour with the general tête-à-tête. I shall relate the conversation exactly
as it occurred, according to my notes, made at the time."]

[Footnote 1238: Mathieu Dumas, "Mémoires," III., 156. "It is certain that he thought of it
from this moment and seriously studied the obstacles, means, and chances of success." (Mathieu
Dumas cites the testimony of Desaix, who was engaged in the enterprise): "It seems that all
was ready, when Bonaparte judged that things were not yet ripe, nor the means sufficient."--Hence
his departure. "He wanted to get out of the way of the rule and caprices of these contemptible
dictators, while the latter wanted to get rid of him because his military fame and influence
in the army were obnoxious to them."]

[Footnote 1239: Larevellière-Lepaux (one of the five directors on duty), "Mémoires," II., 340.
"All that is truly grand in this enterprise, as well as all that is bold and extravagant, either
in its conception or execution, belongs wholly to Bonaparte. The idea of it never occurred
to the Directory nor to any of its members.... His ambition and his pride could not endure
the alternative of no longer being prominent or of accepting a post which, however eminent,
would have always subjected him to the orders of the Directory."]

[Footnote 1240: Madame de Rémusat, I., 142. "Josephine laid great stress on the Egyptian expedition
as the cause of his change of temper and of the daily despotism which made her suffer so much."--"Mes
souvenirs sur Napoleon," 325 by the count Chaptal. (Bonaparte's own words to the poet Lemercier
who might have accompanied him to the Middle East and there would have learned many things
about human nature): "You would have seen a country where the sovereign takes no account of
the lives of his subjects, and where the subject himself takes no account of his own life.
You would have got rid of your philanthropic 'notions."]

[Footnote 1241: Roederer, III., 461 (Jan. 12, 1803)]

[Footnote 1242: Cf. "The Revolution," Vol. p. 773. (Note I., on the situation, in 1806, of
the Conventionalists who had survived the revolution.) For instance, Fouché is minister; Jeanbon-Saint-André,
prefect; Drouet (de Varennes), sub-prefect; Chépy (of Grenoble), commissary-general of the
police at Brest; 131 regicides are functionaries, among whom we find twenty one prefects and
forty-two magistrates.--Occasionally, a chance document that has been preserved allows one
to catch "the man in the act." ("Bulletins hebdomadaires de la censure, 1810 and 1814," published
by M. Thurot, in the Revue Critique, 1871): "Seizure of 240 copies of an indecent work printed
for account of M. Palloy, the author. This Palloy enjoyed some celebrity during the Revolution,
being one of the famous patriots of the Faubourg Saint-Antoine. The constituent Assembly had
conceded to him the ownership of the site of the Bastille, of which he distributed its stones
among all the communes. He is a bon vivant, who took it into his head to write out in a very
bad style the filthy story of his amours with a prostitute of the Palais-Royal. He was quite
willing that the book should be seized on condition that he might retain a few copies of his
jovial production. He professes high admiration for, and strong attachment to His Majesty's
person, and expresses his sentiments piquantly, in the style of 1789."]

[Footnote 1243: "Mémorial," June 12, 1816.]

[Footnote 1244: Mathieu Dumas, III., 363 (July 4, 1809, a few days before Wagram).--Madame
de Rémusat," I., 105: "I have never heard him express any admiration or comprehension of a
noble action."--I., 179: On Augustus's clemency and his saying, "Let us be friends, Cinna,"
the following is his interpretation of it: "I understand this action simply as the feint of
a tyrant, and approve as calculation what I find puerile as sentiment."--"Notes par le Comte
Chaptal": "He believed neither in virtue nor in probity, often calling these two words nothing
but abstractions; this is what rendered him so distrustful and so immoral.... He never experienced
a generous sentiment; this is why he was so cold in company, and why he never had a friend.
He regarded men as so much counterfeit coin or as mere instruments."]

[Footnote 1245: M. de Metternich, "Mémoires," I., 241.--"Madame de Rémusat," I., 93: "That
man has been so harmful (si assommateur de toute vertu...) to all virtue."--Madame de Staël,
"Considerations sur la Revolution Française," 4th part, ch. 18. (Napoleon's conduct with M.
de Melzi, to destroy him in public opinion in Milan, in 1805.)]

[Footnote 1246: Madame de Rémusat, I., 106; II., 247, 336: "His means for governing man were
all derived from those which tend to debase him. ... He tolerated virtue only when he could
cover it with ridicule."]

[Footnote 1247: Nearly all his false calculations are due to this defect, combined with an
excess of constructive imagination.--Cf. De Pradt, p.94: "The Emperor is all system, all illusion,
as one cannot fail to be when one is all imagination. Whoever has watched his course has noticed
his creating for himself an imaginary Spain, an imaginary Catholicism, an imaginary England,
an imaginary financial state, an imaginary noblesse, and still more an imaginary France, and,
in late times, an imaginary congress."]

[Footnote 1248: Roederer, III., 495. (March 8, 1804.)]

[Footnote 1249: Ibid., III., 537 (February 11, 1809.)]

[Footnote 1250: Roederer, III., 514. (November 4, 1804.)]

[Footnote 1251: Marmont, II., 242.]

[Footnote 1252: "Correspondance de Napoléon," I. (Letter to Prince Eugéne, April 14, 1806.)]

[Footnote 1253: M. de Metternich, I., 284.]

[Footnote 1254: Mollien, III., 427.]

[Footnote 1255: "Notes par le Comte Chaptal": During the Consulate, "his opinion not being
yet formed on many points, he allowed discussion and it was then possible to enlighten him
and enforce an opinion once expressed in his presence. But, from the moment that he possessed
ideas of his own, either true or false, on administrative subjects, he consulted no one;...
he treated everybody who differed from him in opinion contemptuously, tried to make them appear
ridiculous, and often exclaimed, giving his forehead a slap, that here was an instrument far
more useful than the counsels of men who were commonly supposed to be instructed and experienced...
For four years, he sought to gather around him the able men of both parties. After this, the
choice of his agents began to be indifferent to him. Regarding himself as strong enough to
rule and carry on the administration himself, the talents and character of those who stood
in his way were discarded. What he wanted was valets and not councillors... The ministers were
simply head-clerks of the bureaus. The Council of State served only to give form to the decrees
emanating from him; he ruled even in petty details. IX. and X. pp. 225-268. (Admirable portraiture
of his principal agents, Cambacérès, Talleyrand, Maret, Cretet, Real, etc.) Lacuée, director
of the conscription, is a perfect type of the imperial functionary. Having received the broad
ribbon of the Legion d'Honneur, he exclaimed, at the height of his enthusiasm: "what will not
France become under such a man? To what degree of happiness and glory will it not ascend, always
provided the conscription furnishes him with 200,000 men a year! And, indeed, that will not
be difficult, considering the extent of the empire."--And likewise with Merlin de Douai: "I
never knew a man less endowed with the sentiment of the just and the unjust; everything seems
to him right and good, as the consequences of a legal text. He was even endowed with a kind
of satanic smile which involuntarily rose to his lips... every time the opportunity occurred,
when, in applying his odious science, he reached the conclusion that severity is necessary
or some condemnation." The same with Defermon, in fiscal matters]

[Footnote 1257: Madame de Rémusat, II., 278; II., 175.]

[Footnote 1258: Ibid., III., 275, II., 45. (Apropos of Savary, his most intimate agent.): "He
is a man who must be constantly corrupted."]

[Footnote 1259: Ibid., I., 109; II., 247; III., 366.]

[Footnote 1260: "Madame de Rémusat," II., 142, 167, 245. (Napoleon's own words.) "If I ordered
Savary to rid himself of his wife and children, I am sure he would not hesitate."--Marmont,
II., 194: "We were at Vienna in 1809. Davoust said, speaking of his own and Maret's devotion:
"If the Emperor should say to us both, 'My political interests require the destruction of Paris
without any one escaping,' Maret would keep the secret, I am sure; but nevertheless he could
not help letting it be known by getting his own family out. I, rather than reveal it I would
leave my wife and children there." (These are bravado expressions, wordy exaggerations, but
significant.)]

[Footnote 1261: Madame de Rémusat, II., 379.]

[Footnote 1262: "Souvenirs du feu duc de Broglie," I., 230. (He was both witness and actor.)]

[Footnote 1266: An expression of Cambacérès. M. de Lavalette, II., 154.]

[Footnote 1267: Madame de Rémusat, III. 184]

[Footnote 1268: "Souvenirs", by Pasquier, Librarie Plon, Paris 1893.-, I., 521. Details of
the manufacture of counterfeit money, by order of Savary, in an isolated building on the plain
of Montrouge.--Metternich, II., 358. (Words of Napoleon to M. de Metternich): "I had 300 millions
of banknotes of the Bank of Vienna all ready and was going to flood you with them." Ibid.,
Correspondence of M. de Metternich with M. de Champagny on this subject (June, 1810).]

[Footnote 1269: "Souvenirs", by Pasquier, Librarie Plon, Paris 1893.--Vol. II. p. 196.]

[Footnote 1270: Madame de Rémusat, II., 335.]

[Footnote 1271: Madame de Rémusat, I., 231.]

[Footnote 1272: Ibid., 335.]

[Footnote 1273: M. de Metternich, I., 284. "One of those to whom he seemed the most attached
was Duroc. 'He loves me the same as a dog loves his master,' is the phrase he made use of in
speaking of him to me. He compared Berthier's sentiment for his person to that of a child's
nurse. Far from being opposed to his theory of the motives influencing men these sentiments
were its natural consequence whenever he came across sentiments to which he could not apply
the theory of calculation based on cold interest, he sought the cause of it in a kind of instinct."]

[Footnote 1274: Beugnot, "Mémoires," II., 59.]

[Footnote 1275: "Mémorial." "If I had returned victorious from Moscow, I would have brought
the Pope not to regret temporal power: I would have converted him into an idol... I would have
directed the religious world as well as the political world... My councils would have represented
Christianity, and the Pope would have only been president of them."]

[Footnote 1276: De Ségur, III., 312. (In Spain, 1809.)]

[Footnote 1277: "Mémoires du Prince Eugène." (Letters of Napoleon, August, 1806.)]

[Footnote 1278: Letter of Napoleon to Fouché, March 3, 1810. (Left out in the "Correspondance
de Napoléon I.," and published by M. Thiers in "Histoire du Consulat et de l'Empire," XII.,
p. 115.)]

[Footnote 1279: De Ségur, III., 459.]

[Footnote 1280: Words of Napoleon to Marmont, who, after three months in the hospital, returns
to him in Spain with a broken arm and his hand in a black sling: "You hold on to that rag then?"
Sainte-Beuve, who loves the truth as it really is, quotes the words as they came, which Marmont
dared not reproduce. (Causeries du Lundi, VI., 16.)--"Souvenirs", by Pasquier, Librarie Plon,
Paris 1893: "M. de Champagny having been dismissed and replaced, a courageous friend defended
him and insisted on his merit: "You are right," said the Emperor, "he had some when I took
him; but by cramming him too full, I have made him stupid."]

[Footnote 1281: Beugnot, I., 456, 464]

[Footnote 1282: Mme. de Rémusat, II., 272.]

[Footnote 1283: M. de Champagny, "Souvenirs," 117.]

[Footnote 1284: Madame de Rémusat, I., 125.]

[Footnote 1285: De Ségur, III., 456.]

[Footnote 1286: "The Ancient Regime," p. 125.--"æuvres de Louis XIV.," 191: "If there is any
peculiar characteristic of this monarchy, it is the free and easy access of the subjects to
the king; it an egalité de justice between both, and which, so to say, maintains both in a
genial and honest companionship, in spite of the almost infinite distance in birth, rank, and
power. This agreeable society, which enables persons of the Court to associate familiarly with
us, impresses them and charms them more than one can tell."]

[Footnote 1287: Madame de Rémusat, II., 32, 39.]

[Footnote 1288: Madame de Rémusat, III., 169.]

[Footnote 1289: Ibid., II., 32, 223, 240, 259; III., 169.]

[Footnote 1290: Ibid., I., 112, II., 77.]

[Footnote 1291: M. de Metternich, I., 286.--"It would be difficult to imagine any greater awkwardness
than that of Napoleon in a drawing-room.--Varnhagen von Ense, "Ausgewählte Schriften," III.,
177. (Audience of July 10, 1810): "I never heard a harsher voice, one so inflexible. When he
smiled, it was only with the mouth and a portion of the cheeks; the brow and eyes remained
immovably sombre,... This compound of a smile with seriousness had in it something terrible
and frightful."--On one occasion, at St. Cloud, Varnhagen heard him exclaim over and over again,
twenty times, before a group of ladies, "How hot!"]

[Footnote 1292: Mme. de Rémusat, II., 77, 169.--Thibaudeau, "Mémoires sur le Consulat," p.
18: "He sometimes pays them left-handed compliments on their toilet or adventures, which was
his way of censuring morals."--"Mes souvenirs sur Napoléon," 322 by le Comte Chaptal: "At a
fête, in the Hôtel de Ville, he exclaimed to Madame----, who had just given her name to him:
'Good God, they told me you were pretty!' To some old persons: 'You haven't long to live! To
another lady: 'It is a fine time for you, now your husband is on his campaigns!' In general,
the tone of Bonaparte was that of an ill-bred lieutenant. He often invited a dozen or fifteen
persons to dinner and rose from the table before the soup was finished... The court was a regular
galley where each rowed according to command."]

[Footnote 1293: Madame de Rémusat, I., 114, 122, 206; II., 110, 112.]

[Footnote 1294: Ibid., I., 277.]

[Footnote 1295: "Hansard's Parliamentary History," vol. XXXVI.,.310. Lord Whitworth's dispatch
to Lord Hawkesbury, March 14, 1803, and account of the scene with Napoleon. "All this took
place loud enough for the two hundred persons present to hear it."--Lord Whitworth (dispatch
of March 17) complains of this to Talleyrand and informs him that he shall discontinue his
visits to the Tuileries unless he is assured that similar scenes shall not occur again.--Lord
Hawkesbury approves of this (dispatch of March 27), and declares that the proceeding is improper
and offensive to the King of England.--Similar scenes, the same conceit and intemperate language,
with M. de Metternich, at Paris, in 1809, also at Dresden, in 1813: again with Prince Korsakof,
at Paris, in 1812; with M. de Balachof, at Wilna, in 1812, and with Prince Cardito, at Milan,
in 1805.]

[Footnote 1296: Before the rupture of the peace of Amiens ("Moniteur," Aug. 8, 1802): The French
government is now more firmly established than the English government."--("Moniteur" Sept.10,
1802): "What a difference between a people which conquers for love of glory and a people of
traders who happen to become conquerors!"--("Moniteur," Feb. 20, 1803): "The government declares
with a just pride that England cannot now contend against France."--Campaign of 1805, 9th bulletin,
words of Napoleon in the presence of Mack's staff: "I recommend my brother the Emperor of Germany
to make peace as quick as he can! Now is the time to remember that all empires come to an end;
the idea that an end might come to the house of Lorraine ought to alarm him."--Letter to the
Queen of Naples, January 2, 1805: "Let your Majesty listen to what I predict. On the first
war breaking out, of which she might be the cause, she and her children will have ceased to
reign; her children would go wandering about among the different countries of Europe begging
help from their relations."]

[Footnote 1297: 37th bulletin, announcing the march of an army on Naples "to punish the Queen's
treachery and cast from the throne that criminal woman, who, with such shamelessness, has violated
all that men hold sacred."--Proclamation of May 13, 1809: "Vienna, which the princes of the
house of Lorraine have abandoned, not as honorable soldiers yielding to circumstances and the
chances of war, but as perjurers pursued by remorse.... In flying from Vienna their adieus
to its inhabitants consisted of murder and fire. Like Medea, they have sacrificed their children
with their own hands."--13th bulletin: "The rage of the house of Lorraine against the city
of Vienna,"]

[Footnote 1298: Letter to the King of Spain, Sept. 18, 1803, and a note to the Spanish minister
of foreign affairs, on the Prince de la Paix: "This favorite, who has succeeded by the most
criminal ways to a degree unheard of in the annals of history.... Let Your Majesty put away
a man who, maintaining in his rank the low passions of his character, has lived wholly on his
vices."--After the battle of Jéna, 9th, 17th, 18th, and 19th bulletins, comparison of the Queen
of Prussia with Lady Hamilton, open and repeated insinuations, imputing to her an intrigue
with the Emperor Alexander. "Everybody admits that the Queen of Prussia is the author of the
evils the Prussian nation suffers. This is heard everywhere. How changed she is since that
fatal interview with the Emperor Alexander!... The portrait of the Emperor Alexander, presented
to her by the Prince, was found in the apartment of the Queen at Potsdam."]

[Footnote 1299: "La Guerre patriotique" (1812-1815), according to the letters of contemporaries,
by Doubravine (in Russian). The Report of the Russian envoy, M. de Balachof, is in French,]

[Footnote 12100: An allusion to the murder of Paul I.]

[Footnote 12101: Stanislas de Girardin, "Mémoires," III., 249. (Reception of Nivôse 12, year
X.) The First consul addresses the Senate: "Citizens, I warn you that I regard the nomination
of Daunou to the senate as a personal insult, and you know that I have never put up with one."--"Correspondance
de Napoleon I." (Letter of Sept.23, 1809, to M. de Champagny): "The Emperor Francis insulted
me in writing to me that I cede nothing to him, when, out of consideration for him, I have
reduced my demands nearly one-half." (Instead of 2,750,000 Austrian subjects he demanded only
1,600,000.)--Roederer, III., 377 (Jan.24, 1801): "The French people must put up with my defects
if they find I am of service to them; it is my fault that I cannot endure insults."]

[Footnote 12102: M. de Metternich, II., 378. (Letter to the Emperor of Austria, July 28, 1810.)]

[Footnote 12103: Note presented by the French ambassador, Otto, Aug. 17, 1802.]

[Footnote 12104: Stanislas Girardin, III., 296. (Words of the First consul, Floreal 24, year
XI.): "I had proposed to the British minister, for several months, to make an arrangement by
which a law should be passed in France and in England prohibiting newspapers and the members
of the government from expressing either good or ill of foreign governments. He never would
consent to it."--St. Girardin: "He could not."--Bonaparte: "Why?"--St. Girardin: "Because an
agreement of that sort would have been opposed to the fundamental law of the country." Bonaparte:
"I have a poor opinion," etc.]

[Footnote 12105: Hansard, vol. XXXVI., p.1298. (Dispatch of Lord Whitworth, Feb.21, 1803, conversation
with the First consul at the Tuileries.)--Seeley, 'A Short History of Napoleon the First."
"Trifles is a softened expression, Lord Whitworth adds in a parenthesis which has never been
printed; "the expression he made use of is too insignificant and too low to have a place in
a dispatch or anywhere else, save in the mouth of a hack-driver."]

[Footnote 12106: Lanfrey, "Histoire de Napoléon," II., 482. (Words of the First consul to the
Swiss delegates, conference of January 29, 1803.)]

[Footnote 12107: Sir Neil Campbell, "Napoleon at Fontainebleau and Elba," p.201. Even coal
and English 'milords' shall land only under the French flag."--Ibid., 32.]

[Footnote 12108: Moniteur, January 30, 1803 (Sebastiani).]

[Footnote 12109: Hansard, vol. XXXVI., p.1298. (Lord Whitworth's dispatch, Feb.21, 1803, the
First Consul's words to Lord Whitworth.)]

[Footnote 12110: "Memorial." (Napoleon's own words, March 24, 1806.)]

[Footnote 12111: Lanfrey, II., 476. (Note to Otto, October 23, 1802.)--Thiers,VI., 249.]

[Footnote 12112: Letter to Clarke, Minister of War, Jan. 18, 1814. "If, at Leipsic, I had had
30,000 cannon balls to fire off on the evening of the 18th, I should to-day be master of the
world."]

[Footnote 12113: "Memorial," Nov. 30, 1815.]

[Footnote 12114: Lanfrey, III.,--399. Letters of Talleyrand, October 11 and 27, 1805, and memorandum
addressed to Napoleon.]

[Footnote 12115: At the council held in relation to the future marriage of Napoleon, Cambacérès
vainly supported an alliance with the Russians. The following week, he says to M. Pasquier:
"When one has only one good reason to give and it cannot possibly be given, it is natural that
one should be beaten..., You will see that it is so good that one phrase suffices to make its
force fully understood. I am deeply convinced that in two years we shall have a war with that
of two powers whose daughter the Emperor does not marry. Now a war with Austria does not cause
me any uneasiness, and I tremble at a war with Russia. The consequences are incalculable."
(Letter to the Emperor of Austria, Aug.10, 1809.)--Ibid. 403.. (Letter of Jan.11, 1811.) "My
appreciation of Napoleon's plans and projects, at bottom, has never varied. The monstrous purpose
of the complete subjection of the continent under one head was, and is still, his object."]

[Footnote 12117: "Correspondance de Napoleon I." (Letter to the King of Wurtemberg, April 2,
1814): "The war will take place in spite of him (the Emperor Alexander), in spite of me, in
spite of the interests of France and those of Russia. Consequently, "not being allowed to bring
these articles back to France, they were thrown overboard."--"They began at first by devoting
the refuse of manufactures to this trade, and then ended by manufacturing articles without
other destination; for example, at Lyons, taffetas and satins."]

[Footnote 12119: Proclamation of Dec.27, 1805: "The Naples dynasty has ceased to reign. Its
existence is incompatible with the repose of Europe and the honor of my crown."--Message to
the Senate, Dec. 10, 1810: "Fresh guarantees having become necessary, the annexation to the
Empire of the mouths of the Escaut, the Meuse, the Rhine, the Ems, the Weser, and the Elbe,
seemed to me to be the first and most important.... The annexation of the Valais is an anticipated
result of the vast works I have undertaken for the past ten years in that section of the Alps."]

[Footnote 12120: We are familiar with the Spanish affair. His treatment of Portugal is anterior
and of same order.-" Correspondance." (Letter to Junot, Oct.31, 1807):--'I have already informed
you, that in authorizing you to enter as an auxiliary, it was to enable you to possess yourself
of the (Portuguese) fleet, but my mind was made up to take Portugal."--(Letter to Junot, Dec.
23, 1807): "Disarm the country. Send all the Portuguese troops to France.... I want them out
of the country. Have all princes, ministers, and other men who serve as rallying points, sent
to France."--(Decree of Dec. 23, 1807): "An extra contribution of 100 million francs shall
be imposed on the kingdom of Portugal, to redeem all property, of whatever denomination, belonging
to private parties... All property belonging to the Queen of Portugal, to the prince-regent,
and to princes in appanage;.... all the possessions of the nobles who have followed the king,
on his abandoning the country, and who had not returned to the kingdom before February 1, shall
be put under sequestration."--Cf. M. d'Haussonville, "L'Église Romaine et le premier Empire,"
5 vols. (especially the last volume). No other work enables one to see into Napoleon's object
and proceedings better nor more closely.]

[Footnote 12121: "Souvenirs du feu duc de Broglie," p.143. (As a specimen of steps taken in
time of war, see the register of Marshal Bessières' orders, commandant at Valladolid from April
11 to July 15, 1811.)--"Correspondance du Roi Jérome," letter of Jerome to Napoleon, Dec. 5,
1811. (Showing the situation of a vanquished people in times of peace): "If war should break
out, all countries between the Rhine and the Oder will become the center of a vast and active
insurrection. The mighty cause of this dangerous movement is not merely hatred of the French,
and impatience of a foreign yoke, but rather in the misfortunes of the day, in the total ruin
of all classes, in over-taxation, consisting of war levies, the maintenance of troops, soldiers
traversing the country, and every sort of constantly renewed vexation.... At Hanover, Magdebourg,
and in the principal towns of my kingdom, owners of property are abandoning their dwellings
and vainly trying to dispose of them at the lowest prices.... Misery everywhere presses on
families; capital is exhausted; the noble, the peasant, the bourgeois, are crushed with debt
and want.... The despair of populations no longer having anything to lose, because all has
been taken away, is to be feared."--De Pradt, p.73. (Specimen of military proceedings in allied
countries.) At Wolburch, in the Bishop of Cujavie's chateau, "I found his secretary, canon
of Cujavie, decorated with the ribbon and cross of his order, who showed me his jaw, broken
by the vigorous blows administered to him the previous evening by General Count Vandamme, because
he had refused to serve Tokay wine, imperiously demanded by the general; he was told that the
King of Westphalia had lodged in the castle the day before, and had carted away all this wine."]

[Footnote 12122: Fievée, "Correspondance et relations avec Bonaparte, de 1802 à 1813," III.,
82. (Dec. 1811), (On the populations annexed or conquered): "There is no hesitation in depriving
them of their patrimony, their language, their legislatures, in disturbing all their habits,
and that without any warrant but throwing a bulletin des lois at their heads (inapplicable)....
How could they be expected to recognize this, or even become resigned to it?... Is it possible
not to feel that one no longer has a country, that one is under constraint, wounded in feeling
and humiliated?... Prussia, and a large part of Germany, has been so impoverished that there
is more to gain by taking a pitchfork to kill a man than to stir up a pile of manure."]

[Footnote 12123: "Correspondance," letter to King Joseph, Feb. 18, 1814. "If I had signed the
treaty reducing France to its ancient limits, I should have gone to war two years after"--Marmont,
V., 133 (1813): "Napoleon, in the last years of his reign, always preferred to lose all rather
than to yield anything."]

[Footnote 12124: M. de Metternich, II., 205.]

[Footnote 12125: Words of Richelieu on his death-bed: "Behold my judge," said he, pointing
to the Host, "the judge who will soon pronounce his verdict. I pray that he will condemn me,
if, during my ministry, I have proposed to myself aught else than the good of religion and
of the State."]

[Footnote 12126: Miot de Melito, "Mémoires,"II., 48, 152.]

[Footnote 12127: "Souvenirs," by Gaudin, duc de Gaëte (3rd vol. of the "Mémoires," p.67).]

[Footnote 12128: M. de Metternich, II., 120. (Letter to Stadion, July 26, 1807.)]

[Footnote 12129: Ibid., II., 291. (Letter of April 11, 1809.)]

[Footnote 12130: Ibid., II., 400. (Letter of Jan.17, 1811.) In lucid moments, Napoleon takes
the same view. Cf. After me, however, my son will deem himself fortunate if he has 40,000 francs
a year."--(De Ségur, "Histoire et Mémoires," III., 155.): "How often at this time (1811) was
he heard to foretell that the weight of his empire would crush his heir!" "Poor child," said
he, regarding the King of Rome, "what an entanglement I shall leave to you!" From the beginning
he frequently passed judgment on himself and foresaw the effect of his action in history."
On reaching the isle of Poplars, the First Consul stopped at Rousseau's grave, and said: 'It
would have, been better for the repose of France, if that man had never existed.' 'And why,
citizen Consul?' 'He is the man who made the French revolution.' 'It seems to me that you need
not complain of the French revolution!' 'well, the future must decide whether it would not
have been better for the repose of the whole world if neither myself nor Rousseau had ever
lived.' He then resumed his promenade in a revery."--Stanislas Girardin; "Journal et Mémoires,"
III., Visit of the French Consul to Ermenonville.]

[Footnote 12131: Marmont, "Mémoires," III., 337. (On returning from Wagram.)]

[Footnote 12132: On this initial discord, cf. Armand Lefèvre, "Histoire des Cabinets de l'Europe,"
vol.VI.]

[Footnote 12133: "Correspondance de Napoléon I." (Letter to the King of Wurtemberg, April 2,
1811.)]

[Footnote 12134: Testament of April 25, 1821 "It is my desire that my remains rest on the banks
of the Seine, amidst that French people I have so dearly loved."]

[Footnote 12135: "Correspondance de Napoleon I.", XXII., 119. "Never has any nation been thus
asked to let itself be voluntarily led in a mass to the slaughterhouse.--Ibid., II., 59. Senatus-consulte,
and order of council for raising 10,000 young men, exempt or redeemed from conscription, as
the prefects might choose, arbitrarily, from amongst the highest classes in society. The purpose
was plainly "to secure hostages in every family of doubtful loyalty. No measure created for
Napoleon more irreconcilable enemies."--Cf. De Ségur, II., 34. (He was charged with organizing
and commanding a division of young men.) Many were sons of Vendéans or of Conventionalists,
some torn from their wives the day after their marriage, or from the bedside of a wife in her
confinement, of a dying father, or of a sick son; "some looked so feeble that they seemed dying."
One half perished in the campaign of 1814.--"Correspondance," letter to Clarke, Minister of
War, Oct.23, 1813 (in relation to the new levies): "I rely on 100,000 refractory conscripts."]

[Footnote 12137: "Archives nationales," A F.,VI., 1297. (Documents 206 to 210.) (Report to
the Emperor by Count Dumas, April 10, 1810.) Besides the 170 millions of penalties 1,675,457
francs of penalty were inflicted on 2335 individuals, "abettors or accomplices."--Ibid., A
F.,VI., 1051. (Report of Gen. Lacoste on the department of Haute-Loire, Oct. 13, 1808.) "He
always calculated in this department on the desertion of one-half of the conscripts. In most
of the cantons the gendarmes traffic with the conscription shamefully; certain conscripts pension
them to show them favors."--Ibid., A F.,VI., 1052. (Report by Pelet, Jan. 12, 1812.) "The operation
of the conscription has improved (in the Herault); the contingents of 1811 have been furnished.
There remained 1800 refractory, or deserters of the previous classes; 1600 have been arrested
or made to surrender by the flying column; 200 have still to be pursued." Faber,--"Notice (1807)
sur l'intérieur de la France," p. 141: "Desertion, especially on the frontiers, is occasionally
frightful; 80 deserters out of 160 have sometimes been arrested."--Ibid., p.149: It has been
stated in the public journals that in 1801 the court in session at Lille had condemned 135
refractory out of the annual conscription, and that which holds its sittings at Ghent had condemned
70. Now, 200 conscripts form the maximum of what an arrondissement in a department could furnish."--Ibid,
p.145. "France resembles a vast house of detention where everybody is suspicious of his neighbor,
where each avoids the other... One often sees a young man with a gendarme at his heels oftentimes,
on looking closely, this young man's hands are found tied, or he is handcuffed."--Mathieu Dumas,
III., 507 (After the battle of Dresden, in the Dresden hospitals): "I observed, with sorrow,
that many of these men were slightly wounded: most of them, young conscripts just arrived in
the army, had not been wounded by the enemy's fire, but they had mutilated each other's feet
and hands. Antecedents of this kind, of equally bad augury, had already been remarked in the
campaign of 1809."]

[Footnote 12138: De Ségur, III., 474.--Thiers, XIV., 159. (One month after crossing the Niemen
one hundred and fifty thousand men had dropped out of the ranks.)]

[Footnote 12139: Bulletin 29 (December 3, 1812).]

[Footnote 12140: "De Pradt, Histoire de l'Ambassade de Varsovie," p.219.]

[Footnote 12141: M. de Metternich, I., 147.--Fain, "Manuscript," of 1813, II., 26. (Napoleon's
address to his generals.) "What we want is a complete triumph. To abandon this or that province
is not the question; our political superiority and our existence depend on it. "--II., 41,
42. (Words of Napoleon to Metternich.) "And it is my father-in-law who favors such a project!
And he sends you! In what attitude does he wish to place me before the French people? He is
strangely deluded if he thinks that a mutilated throne can offer an asylum to his daughter
and grandson.... Ah, Metternich, how much has England given you to make you play this part
against me?" (This last phrase, omitted in Metternich's narrative, is a characteristic trait;
Napoleon at this decisive moment, remains insulting and aggressive, gratuitously and even to
his own destruction.)]

[Footnote 12142: "Souvenirs du feu duc de Broglie," I., 235.]

[Footnote 12143: Ibid., I., 230. Some days before Napoleon had said to M. de Narbonne, who
told me that very evening: "After all, what has this (the Russian campaign) cost me? II. 110.
(Apropos of the Frankfurt basis, and accepted by Napoleon when too late.) "What characterizes
this mistake is that it was committed much more against the interests of France than against
his own.... He sacrificed her to the perplexities of his personal situation, to the mauvaise
honte of his own ambition, to the difficulty he finds in standing alone to a certain extent
before a nation which had done everything for him and which could justly reproach him with
having sacrificed so much treasure and spilled so much blood on enterprises proved to have
been foolish and impracticable."]

[Footnote 12144: Leonce de Lavergne, "Economie rurale de la France," P.40. (According to the
former director of the conscription under the Empire.)]

BOOK SECOND. FORMATION AND CHARACTER OF THE NEW STATE.

CHAPTER I. THE INSTITUTION OF GOVERNMENT

I. The Institution of Government.

     Conditions on which the public power can act.--Two points
     forgotten by the authors of the preceding constitutions.--
     Difficulty of the undertaking and poor quality of the
     available materials.

Every human society requires government, that is to say an authority. No other machinery is
more useful. But a machinery is useful only if it is adapted to its purpose; if not it will
not work, or may even work contrary to its purpose. Hence, during its construction, one must
first of all consider the magnitude of the work it has to do as well as the quality of the
materials one has at one's disposal. It is very important to know beforehand whether it will
lift 100 or of 100,000 kilograms, whether the pieces fitted together will be of iron or of
steel, of sound or of unsound timber.--But the legislators had not taken that into consideration
during the last ten years. They had set themselves up as theoreticians, and likewise as optimists,
without looking at the things, or else imagining the them as they wished to have them. In the
national assemblies, as well as with the public, the task was deemed easy and simple, whereas
it was extraordinary and immense; for the matter in hand consisted in effecting a social revolution
and in carrying on an European war. The materials were supposed to be excellent, as manageable
as they were substantial, while, in fact, they were very poor, being both refractory and brittle,
for these human materials consisted of the Frenchmen of 1789 and of the following years; that
is to say, of exceedingly sensitive men doing each other all possible harm, inexperienced in
political business, Utopians, impatient, intractable, and overexcited. Calculations had been
made on these prodigiously false data; consequently, although the calculations were very exact,
the results obtained were found absurd. Relying on these data, the machine had been planned,
and all its parts been adjusted, assembled, and balanced. That is why the machine, irreproachable
in theory, remained unsuccessful in practice: the better it appeared on paper the quicker it
broke down when set up on the ground.

II. Default of previous government.

     The consequences of the years 1789 to 1799.--Insubordination
     of the local powers, conflict of the central powers,
     suppression of liberal institutions, and the establishment
     of an unstable despotism.--Evil-doing of the government thus
     formed.

A capital defect at once declared itself in the two principal compositions, in the working
gear of the superposed powers and in the balance of the motor powers.--In the first place,
the hold given to the central government on its local subordinates was evidently too feeble;
with no right to appoint these, it could not select them as it pleased, according to the requirements
of the service. Department, district, canton, and commune administrators, civil and criminal
judges, assessors, appraisers, and collectors of taxes, officers of the national-guard and
even of the gendarmerie, police-commissioners, and other agents who had to enforce laws on
the spot, were nearly all recruited elsewhere: either in popular assemblies or provided ready-made
by elected bodies.[2101] They were for it merely borrowed instruments; thus originating, they
escaped its control; it could not make them work as it wanted them to work. On most occasions
they would shirk their duties; at other times, on receiving orders, they would stand inert;
or, again, they would act outside of or beyond their special function, either going too far
or acting in a contrary sense; never did they act with moderation and precision, with coherence
and consequence. For this reason any desire of the government to do its job proved unsuccessful.
Its legal subordinates--incapable, timid, lukewarm, unmanageable, or even hostile--obeyed badly,
did not obey at all, or willfully disobeyed. The blade of the executive instrument, loose in
the handle, glanced or broke off when the thrust had to be made.

In the second place, never could the two or three motor forces thrusting the handle act in
harmony, owing to the clashing of so many of them; one always ended in breaking down the other.
The Constituent Assembly had set aside the King, the Legislative Assembly had deposed him,
the Convention had decapitated him. Afterward each fraction of the sovereign body in the Convention
had proscribed the other; the Montagnards had guillotined the Girondists, and the Thermidorians
had guillotined the Montagnards. Later, under the Constitution of the year III, the Fructidorians
had banished the Constitutionalists, the Directory had purged the Councils, and the Councils
had purged the Directory.--Not only did the democratic and parliamentary institution fail in
its work and break down on trial, but, again, through its own action, it became transformed
into its opposite. In a year or two a coup d'état in Paris took place; a faction seized the
central power and converted it into an absolute power in the hands of five or six ringleaders.
The new government at once re-forged the executive instrument for its own advantage and refastened
the blade firmly on the handle; in the provinces it dismissed those elected by the people and
deprived the governed of the right to choose their own rulers; henceforth, through its proconsuls
on mission, or through its resident commissioners, it alone appointed, superintended, and regulated
on the spot all local authorities.[2102]

Thus the liberal constitution, at its close, gave birth to a centralized despotism, and this
was the worst of its species, at once formless and monstrous; for it was born out of a civil
crime, while the government which used it had no support but a band of bigoted fanatics or
political adventurers; without any legal authority over the nation, or any moral hold on the
army, detested, threatened, discordant, exposed to the resistance of its own upholders, to
the treachery of its own members, and living only from day to day, it could maintain itself
only through a brutal absolutism and permanent terror, while the public power of which the
first care is the protection of property, consciences, and lives, became in its hands the worst
of persecutors, robbers, and murderers.

III. In 1799, the undertaking more difficult and the materials worse.

Twice in succession had the experiment been tried, the monarchical constitution of 1791, and
the republican constitution of 1795; twice in succession had the same events followed the same
course to attain the same end; twice in succession had the theoretical, cunningly-devised machine
for universal protection changed into an efficient and brutal machine for universal oppression.
It is evident that if the same machine were started the third time under analogous conditions,
one might expect to see it work in the same manner; that is to say, contrary to its purpose.

Now, in 1799, the conditions were analogous, and even worse, for the work which the machine
had to do was not less, while the human materials available for its construction were not so
good.--Externally, the country was constantly at war with Europe; peace could not be secured
except by great military effort, and peace was as difficult to preserve as to win. The European
equilibrium had been too greatly disturbed; neighboring or rival States had suffered too much;
the rancor and distrust provoked by the invading revolutionary republic were too active; these
would have lasted a long time against pacified France even after she had concluded reasonable
treaties. Even should she abandon a policy of propaganda and interference, return brilliant
acquisitions, cease the domination of protectorates, and abandon the disguised annexation of
Italy, Holland, and Switzerland, the nation was still bound to keep watch under arms. A government
able to concentrate all its forces--that is to say, placed above and beyond all dispute and
promptly obeyed-was indispensable, if only to remain intact and complete, to keep Belgium and
the frontier of the Rhine.--Likewise internally, and for no other purpose than to restore civil
order; for here, too, the outrages of the Revolution had been too great. There had been too
much spoliation, too many imprisonments, exiles, and murders, too many violations of every
kind, too many invasions of the rights of property and of persons, public and private. It was
so much more difficult

* To insure respect for persons and all private and public possessions;

* to restrain at once both Royalists and Jacobins;

* to restore 140,000 émigrés to their country and yet satisfy 1,200,000 possessors of national
property;

* to give back to 25,000,000 of orthodox Catholics the right, faculty, and means for worshipping,
and yet not allow the schismatic clergy to be maltreated;

* to bring face to face in the same commune the dispossessed seigneur and the peasant holders
of his domain;

* to compel the delegates of the Committee of Public Safety and their victims, the shooters
and the shot of Vendémiaire, the Fructidorians and the Fructidorized, the Whites and the Blues
of La Vendée and Brittany, to live in peace side by side,

because the future laborers in this immense work, from the village mayor to the state-senator
and state-councilor, had borne a part in the Revolution, either in effecting it or under subjection
to it--Monarchists, Feuillantists, Girondists, Montagnards, Thermidorians, moderate Jacobins
or desperate Jacobins, all oppressed in turn and disappointed in their calculations. Their
passions, under this régime, had become embittered; each brought personal bias and resentment
into the performance of his duties; to prevent him from being unjust and mischievous demanded
a tightened curb.[2103] All sense of conviction, under this régime, had died out; no body would
serve gratis as in 1789;[2104] nobody would work without pay; disinterestedness had lost all
charm; ostentatious zeal seemed hypocrisy; genuine zeal seemed self-dupery; each looked out
for himself and not for the community; public spirit had yielded to indifference, to egotism,
and to the need of security, of enjoyment, and of self-advancement. Human materials, deteriorated
by the Revolution, were less than ever suited to providing citizens--they simply furnished
functionaries. With such wheels combined together according to formula current between 1791
and 1795, the requisite work could not possibly be done. As a consequence, definitely and for
a long time, any use of the two great liberal mechanisms were doomed. So long as the wheels
remained of such poor quality and the task so hard, both the election of local powers and the
division of the central power had to be abandoned.

IV. Motives for suppressing the election of local powers.

     Motives for suppressing the election of local powers.--The
     Electors.--Their egoism and partiality.--The Elected.--Their
     inertia, corruption, and disobedience.

All were agreed on the first point. If any still doubted, they had only to open their eyes,
fix them on the local authorities, watch them as soon as born, and follow them throughout the
exercise of their functions.--Naturally, in filling each office, the electors had chosen a
man of their own species and caliber; their fixed and dominant disposition was accordingly
well known; they were indifferent to public matters and therefore their candidate was as indifferent
as themselves. Had they shown too great a concern for the nation this would have prevented
their election; the State to them was a troublesome moralist and remote creditor. Their candidate
must choose between them and this intruder, side with them against it, and not act as a pedagogue
in its name or as bailiff on its behalf. When power is born on the spot and conferred to-day
by constituents who are to submit to it to-morrow as subordinates, they do not put the whip
in the hands of one who will flog them; they demand sentiments of him in conformity with their
inclinations; in any event they will not tolerate in him the opposite ones. From the beginning,
this resemblance between them and him is great, and it goes on increasing from day to day because
the creature is always in the hands of his creators; subject to their daily pressure, he at
last becomes as they are; after a certain period they have shaped him in their image.--Thus
the candidate-elect, from the start or very soon after, became a confederate with his electors.
At one time, and this occurred frequently, especially in the towns, he had been elected by
a violent sectarian minority; he then subordinated general interests to the interests of a
clique. At another, and especially in the rural districts, he had been elected by an ignorant
and brutal majority, when he accordingly subordinated general interests to those of a village.--If
he chanced to be conscientious and somewhat intelligent and was anxious to do his duty, he
could not; he felt himself weak and was felt to be weak;[2105] both authority and the means
for exercising it were wanting in him. He had not the force which a power above communicates
to its delegates below; nobody saw behind him the government and the army; his only resource
was a national-guard, which either shirked or refused to do its duty, and which often did not
exist at all.--On the contrary, he could prevaricate, pillage, and persecute for his own advantage
and that of his clique with impunity; for there was no restraint on him from above; the Paris
Jacobins would not be disposed to alienate the Jacobins of the province; they were partisans
and allies, and the government had few others; it was bound to retain them, to let them intrigue
and embezzle at will.

Suppose an extensive domain of which the steward is appointed, not by the absent owner, but
by his tenants, debtors, farmers, and dependents: the reader may imagine whether rents will
be paid and debts collected, whether road-taxes will be worked out, what care will be taken
of the property, what its annual income will be to the owner, how abuses of commission and
omission will be multiplied indefinitely, how great the disorder will be, the neglect, the
waste, the fraud, the injustice, and the license.--The same in France,[2106] and for the same
reason:

* every public service disorganized, destroyed, or perverted;

* no justice, no police;

* authorities abstaining from prosecution, magistrates not daring to condemn, a gendarmerie
which receives no orders or which stands still;

* rural marauding become a habit;

* roving bands of brigands in forty-five departments;

* mail wagons and coaches stopped and pillaged even up to the environs of Paris;

* highways broken up and rendered impassable;

* open smuggling, customs yielding nothing, national forests devastated, the public treasury
empty,[2107] its revenues intercepted and expended before being deposited, taxes decreed and
not collected;

* everywhere arbitrary assessments of real and personal estate, no less wicked exemptions than
overcharges;

* in many places no list prepared for tax assessments,

* communes which here and there, under pretext of defending the republic against neighboring
consumers, exempt themselves from both tax and conscription;

* conscripts to whom their mayor gives false certificates of infirmity and marriage, who do
not turn out when ordered out, who desert by hundreds on the way to headquarters, who form
mobs and use guns in defending themselves against the troops,--such were the fruits of the system.

The government could not constrain rural majorities with the officials chosen by the selfish
and inept rural majorities. Neither could it repress the urban minorities with agents elected
by the same partial and corrupt urban minorities. Hands are necessary, and hands as firm as
tenacious, to seize conscripts by the collar, to rummage the pockets of taxpayers, and the
State did not have such hands. They were required right away, if only to prepare and provide
for urgent needs. If the western departments had to be subdued and tranquilized, relief furnished
to Massena besieged in Genoa, Mélas prevented from invading Provence, Moreau's army transported
over the Rhine, the first thing was to restore to the central government the appointment of
local authorities.

V. Reasons for centralization.

     Reasons for placing the executive central power in one
     hand.--Sieyès' chimerical combinations.--Bonaparte's
     objections.

On this second point, the evidence was scarcely less.--And clearly, the moment the local powers
owed their appointment to the central powers, it is plain that the central executive power,
on which they depend, should be unique. For, this great team of functionaries, driven from
aloft, could not have aloft several distinct drivers; being several and distinct, the drivers
would each pull his own way, while the horses, pulling in opposite directions, would do nothing
but prance. In this respect the combinations of Sieyès do not bear examination. A mere theorist
and charged with preparing the plan of a new constitution, he had reasoned as if the drivers
on the box were not men, but robots: perched above all, a grand-elector, a show sovereign,
with two places to dispose of and always passive, except to appoint or revoke two active sovereigns,
the two governing consuls. One, a peace-consul, appointing all civil officers, and the other
a war-consul, making all military and diplomatic appointments; each with his own ministers,
his own council of state, his own court of judicature. All these functionaries, ministers,
consuls, and the grand-elector himself, were revocable at the will of a senate which from day
to day could absorb them, that is to say, make them senators with a salary of 30,000 francs
and an embroidered dress-coat.[2108] Sieyès evidently had not taken into account either the
work to be done or the men who would have to do it, while Bonaparte, who was doing the work
at this very time, who understood men and who understood himself, at once put his finger on
the weak spot of this complex mechanism, so badly adjusted and so frail. Two consuls,[2109]
"one controlling the ministers of justice, of the interior, of the police, of the treasury,
and the other the ministers of war, of the navy, and of foreign affairs." The conflict between
them is certain; look at them facing each other, subject to contrary influences and suggestions:
around the former "only judges, administrators, financiers, and men in long robes," and round
the latter "only epaulets and men of the sword." Certainly "one will need money and recruits
for his army which the other will not grant."--And it is not your grand-elector who will make
them agree. "If he conforms strictly to the functions which you assign to him he will be the
mere ghost, the fleshless phantom of a roi fainéant. Do you know any man vile enough to take
part in such contrivances? How can you imagine any man of talent or at all honorable contentedly
playing the part of a hog fattening himself on a few millions?"--And all the more because if
he wants to abandon his part the door stands open. "Were I the grand-elector I would say to
the war-consul and to the peace-consul on appointing them, If you put in a minister or sign
a bill I don't like I'll put you out." Thus does the grand-elector become an active, absolute
monarch.

"But," you may say, "the senate in its turn will absorb the grand-elector."--"The remedy is
worse than the disease; nobody, according to this plan, has any guarantees," and each, therefore,
will try to secure them to himself, the grand-elector against the senate, the consuls against
the grand-elector, and the senate against the grand-elector and consuls combined, each uneasy,
alarmed, threatened, threatening, and usurping to protect himself; these are the wheels which
work the wrong way, in a machine constantly getting out of order, stopping, and finally breaking
down entirely.

Thereupon, and as Bonaparte, moreover, was already master, all the executive powers were reduced
to one, and this power was vested in him.[2110] In reality, "to humor republican opinion"[2111]
they gave him two associates with the same title as his own; but they were appointed only for
show, simply as consulting, inferior, and docile registrars, with no rights save that of signing
their names after his and putting their signatures to the procès verbal declaring his orders;
he alone commanded, "he alone had the say, he alone appointed to all offices," so that they
were already subjects as he alone was already the sovereign.

VI. Irreconcilable divisions.

     Difficulty of organizing a legislative power.--Fraudulent
     and violent elections for ten years.--Spirit and diffusion
     of hatred against the men and dogmas of the Revolution.
     --Probable composition of a freely elected Assembly.--Its two
     irreconcilable divisions.--Sentiments of the army.
     --Proximity and probable meaning of a new coup d'État.

It remained to frame a legislative power as a counterpoise to this executive power, so concentrated
and so strong.--In organized and tolerably sound communities this point is reached through
an elective parliament which represents the public will; it represents this because it is a
copy, a faithful reduction of that will on a small scale; it is so organized as to present
a loyal and proportionate expression of diverse controlling opinions. In this case, the electoral
selection has worked well; one superior right, that of election, has been respected, or, in
other words, the passions excited have not proved too strong, which is owing to the most important
interests not having proved too divergent.--Unfortunately, in France, rent asunder and discordant,
all the most important interests were in sharp antagonism; the passions brought into play,
consequently, were furious; no right was respected, and least of all that of election; hence
the electoral test worked badly, and no elected parliament was or could be a veritable expression
of the public will. Since 1791, the elections, violated and deserted, had brought intruders
only to the legislative benches, under the name of mandatories. These were endured for lack
of better; but nobody had any confidence in them, and nobody showed them any deference. People
knew how they had been elected and how little their title was worth. Through inertness, fear,
or disgust, the great majority of electors had not voted, while the voters at the polls fought
among themselves, the strongest or least scrupulous expelling or constraining the rest. During
the last three years of the Directory the electoral assembly was often divided; each faction
elected its own deputy and protested against the election of the other. The government then
chose between the two candidates elected, arbitrarily and always with barefaced partiality;
and again, if but one candidate was elected, and that one an adversary, his election was invalidated.
In sum, for nine years, the legislative body, imposed on the nation by a faction, was scarcely
more legitimate than the executive power, another usurper, and which, later on, filled up or
purged its ranks. Any remedy for this defect in the electoral machine was impossible; it was
due to its internal structure, to the very quality of its materials. At this date, even under
an impartial and strong government, the machine could not have answered its purpose, that of
deriving from the nation a body of sober-minded and respected delegates, providing France with
a parliament capable of playing its own part, or any part whatever, in the conduct of public
business.

For, suppose

* that the new governors show uncommon loyalty, energy, and vigilance, remarkable political
abnegation and administrative omnipresence,

* that the factions are contained without suppression of free speech,

* the central powers neutral yet active,

* no official candidature,

* no pressure from above,

* no constraint from below,

* the police-commissioners respectful and gendarmes protecting the entrance to every electoral
assembly,

* all proceedings regular, no disturbance inside, voting perfectly free, the electors numerous,
five or six millions of Frenchmen gathered at the polls,

and guess what choice they will make.

After Fructidor, there is a renewal of religious persecution and of excessive civil oppression;
the brutality and unworthiness of the rulers have doubled and diffused hatred against the men
and the ideas of the Revolution.--In Belgium, recently annexed, the regular and secular clergy
had just been proscribed in a mass,[2112] and a great rural insurrection had broken out. The
uprising had spread from the Waes country and the ancient seignory of Malines, around Louvain
as far as Tirlemont, and afterward to Brussels, to Campine, to South Brabant, to Flanders,
to Luxembourg, in the Ardennes, and even to the frontiers of Liège; many villages had to be
burned, and many of their inhabitants killed, and the survivors keep this in mind. In the twelve
western departments,[2113] at the beginning of the year 1800, the royalists were masters of
nearly the whole country and had control of forty thousand armed men in regimental order; undoubtedly
these were to be overcome and disarmed, but they were not to be deprived of their opinions,
as of their guns.--In the month of August, 1799,[2114] sixteen thousand insurgents in Haute
Garonne and the six neighboring departments, led by Count de Paulo, had unfurled the royal
white flag; one of the cantons, Cadours, "had risen almost entirely;" a certain town, Muret,
sent all its able-bodied men. They had penetrated even to the outskirts of Toulouse, and several
engagements, including a pitched battle, were necessary to subdue them. On one occasion, at
Montréjean, 2000 were slain or drowned. The peasants fought with fury, "a fury that bordered
on frenzy;" "some were heard to exclaim with their last breath, 'Vive le Roi!' and others were
cut to pieces rather than shout, 'Vive la République!'"--From Marseilles to Lyons the revolt
lasted five years on both banks of the Rhône, under the form of brigandage; the royalist bands,
increased by refractory conscripts and favored by the inhabitants whom they spared, killed
or pillaged the agents of the republic and the buyers of national possessions.[2115] There
were thus, in more than thirty departments, intermittent and scattered Vendées. In all the
Catholic departments there was a latent Vendée. Had the elections been free during this state
of exasperation it is probable that one-half of France would have voted for men of the ancient
régime--Catholics, Royalists, or, at least, the Monarchists of 1790.

Let the reader imagine facing this party, in the same chamber, about an equal number of representatives
elected by the other party; the only ones it could select, its notables, that is to say, the
survivors of preceding assemblies, probably Constitutionalists of the year IV and the year
V, Conventionalists of the Plain and of the Feuillants of 1792, from Lafayette and Dumolard
to Daunou, Thibaudeau and Grégoire, among them Girondists and a few Montagnards, Barère,[2116]
with others, all of them wedded to the theory the same as their adversaries to traditions.
To one who is familiar with the two groups, behold two inimical doctrines confronting each
other; two irreconcilable systems of opinions and passions, two contradictory modes of conceiving
sovereignty, law, society, the State, property, religion, the Church, the ancient régime, the
Revolution, the present and the past; it is civil war transferred from the nation to the parliament.
Certainly the Right would like to see the First Consul a Monck, which would lead to his becoming
a Cromwell; for his power depends entirely on his credit with the army, then the sovereign
force; at this date the army is still republican, at least in feeling if not intelligently,
imbued with Jacobin prejudices, attached to revolutionary interests, and hence blindly hostile
to aristocrats, kings, and priests.[2117] At the first threat of a monarchical and Catholic
restoration it will demand of him an eighteenth Fructidor[2118]; otherwise, some Jacobin general,
Jourdan, Bernadotte, or Augereau, will make one without him, against him, and they fall back
into the rut from which they wished to escape, into the fatal circle of revolutions and coups
d'état.

VII. Establishment of a new Dictatorship.

     The electoral and legislative combinations of Sieyès.
     --Bonaparte's use of them.--Paralysis and submission of the
     three legislative bodies.--The Senate as the ruler's tool.
     --Senatus-consultes and Plebiscites.--Final establishment of
     the Dictatorship.--Its dangers and necessity.--Public power
     now able to do its work.

Sieyès comprehended this: he detects on the horizon the two specters which, for ten years,
have haunted all the governments of France, legal anarchy and unstable despotism; he has found
a magic formula with which to exorcise these two phantoms; henceforth "power is to come from
above and confidence from below."[2119]--Consequently, the new constitutional act withdraws
from the nation the right to elect its deputies; it will simply elect candidates to the deputation
and through three degrees of election, one above the other; thus, it is to take part in the
choice of its candidates only through "an illusory and metaphysical participation."[2120] The
right of the electors of the first degree is wholly reduced to designating one-tenth among
themselves; the right of those of the second degree is also reduced to designating one-tenth
among themselves; the right of those of the third degree is finally reduced to designating
one-tenth of their number, about six thousand candidates. On this list, the government itself,
by right and by way of increasing the number, inscribes its own high functionaries; evidently,
on such a long list, it will have no difficulty in finding men who, as simple tools, will be
devoted to it. Through another excess of precaution, the government, on its sole authority,
in the absence of any list, alone names the first legislature. Last of all, it is careful to
attach handsome salaries to these legislative offices, 10,000 f., 15,000 f., and 30,000 f.
a year; parties canvass with it for these places the very first day, the future depositaries
of legislative power being, to begin with, solicitors of the antechamber.--To render their
docility complete, there is a dismemberment of this legislative power in advance; it is divided
among three bodies, born feeble and passive by institution. Neither of these has any initiative;
their deliberations are confined to laws proposed by the government. Each possesses only a
fragment of function; the "Tribunat" discusses without passing laws, the "Corps Législatif"
decrees without discussion, the conservative" Sénat" is to maintain this general paralysis.
"What do you want?" said Bonaparte to Lafayette.[2121] "Sieyès everywhere put nothing but ghosts,
the ghost of a legislative power, the ghost of a judiciary, the ghost of a government. Something
substantial had to be put in their place. Ma foi, I put it there," in the executive power.

There it is, completely in his hands; other authorities to him are merely for show or as instruments.[2122]
The mutes of the Corps Législatif come annually to Paris to keep silent for four months; one
day he will forget to convoke them, and nobody will remark their absence.--As to the Tribunat,
which talks too much, he will at first reduce its words to a minimum "by putting it on the
diet of laws;" afterward, through the interposition of the senate, which designates retiring
members, he gets rid of troublesome babblers; finally, and always through the interposition
of the senate, titular interpreter, guardian, and reformer of the constitution, he ventilates
and then suppresses the Tribunat itself.--The senate is the grand instrument by which he reigns;
he commands it to furnish the senatus-consultes of which he has need. Through this comedy played
by him above, and through another complementary comedy which he plays below, the plebiscite,
he transforms his ten-year consulate into a consulate for life, and then into an empire, that
is to say, into a permanent, legal, full, and perfect dictatorship. In this way the nation
is handed over to the absolutism of a man who, being a man, cannot fail to think of his own
interest before all others. It remains to be seen how far and for how long a time this interest,
as he comprehends it, or imagines it, will accord with the interest of the public. All the
better for France should this accord prove complete and permanent; all the worse for France
should it prove partial and temporary. It is a terrible risk, but inevitable. There is no escape
from anarchy except through despotism, with the chance of encountering in one man, at first
a savior and then a destroyer, with the certainty of henceforth belonging to an unknown will
fashioned by genius and good sense, or by imagination and egoism, in a soul fiery and disturbed
by the temptations of absolute power, by success and universal adulation, in a despot responsible
to no one but himself, in a conqueror condemned by the impulses of conquest to regard himself
and the world under a light growing falser and falser.

Such are the bitter fruits of social dissolution: the authority of the state will either perish
or become perverted; each uses it for his own purposes, and nobody is disposed to entrust it
to an external arbitrator, and the usurpers who seize it only remain trustee on condition that
they abuse it; when it works in their hands it is only to work against its office. It must
be accepted when, for want of better or fear of worse, through a final usurpation, it falls
into the only hands able to restore it, organize it, and apply it at last to the service of
the public.

*****

[Footnote 2101: "The Revolution," P.193 and following pages, also p.224 and following pages.
The provisions of the constitution of the year III, somewhat less anarchical, are analogous;
those of the "Mountain" constitution (year II) are so anarchical that nobody thought of enforcing
them.]

[Footnote 2102: "The Revolution," vol. .. It would be painful to think that a lack of salary
was one of the causes of the difficulty in establishing municipal administrations. In 1790,
1791, and 1792, we found our fellow-citizens emulously striving after these gratuitous offices
and even proud of the disinterestedness which the law prescribed." (Report of the Directory,
end of 1795.) After this date public spirit is extinguished, stifled by the Reign of Terror.--Ibid.,
368, 369: "Deplorable indifference for public offices.... Out of seven town officials appointed
in the commune of Laval, only one accepted, and that one the least capable. It is the same
in the other communes."--Ibid., 380 (Report of the year VII): "General decline of public spirit."--Ibid.,
287 (Report by Lacuée, on the 1st military division, Aisne, Eure-et-Loire, Loiret, Oise, Seine,
Seine-et-Marne, (year IX): "Public spirit is dying out and is even gone."]

[Footnote 2105: Rocquain, Ibid., p.27 (Report of François de Nantes, on the 8th military division,Vaucluse,
Bouches-du-Rhône, Var, Basses-Alpes, and Alpes-Maratimes, year IX): "Witnesses, in some communes,
did not dare furnish testimony, and, in all, the justices of the peace were afraid of making
enemies and of not being re-elected. It was the same with the town officials charged with prosecutions
and whom their quality as elected and temporary officials always rendered timid."--Ibid., 48:
"All the customs-directors complained of the partiality of the courts. I have myself examined
several cases in which the courts of Marseilles and Toulon decided against the plain text the
law and with criminal partiality.--Archives nationales, series F7, Reports "on the situation,
on the spirit of the public," in many hundreds of towns, cantons, and departments, from the
year III to the year VIII and after.]

[Footnote 2106: Cf. "The Revolution," III., book IX., ch. I.--Rocquain, passim.--Schmidt, "Tableaux
de la Révolution française," III., parts 9 and 10.--Archives nationales, F7, 3250 (Letter of
the commissioner of the executive directory, Fructidor 23, year VII): "Armed mobs on the road
between Saint-Omer and Arras have dared fire on the diligences and rescue from the gendarmerie
the drawn conscripts."--Ibid., F7, 6565. Only on Seine-inferiure, of which the following are
some of the reports of the gendarmerie for one year.--Messidor, year VII, seditious mobs of
conscripts and others in the cantons of Motteville and Doudeville. I., 260. Under the Directory,"
one day, in order to dispatch a special courier, the receipts of the Opera had to be taken
because they were in coin. Another day, it was on the point of sending every gold piece in
the musée of medals to be melted down (worth in the crucible from 5000 to 6000 francs)."]

[Footnote 2108: "Théorie constitutionnelle de Sieyès." (Extract from unpublished memoirs by
Boulay de la Meurthe.) Paris, 1866, Renouard.]

[Footnote 2109: "Correspondance de Napoleon 1er," XXX.. 345. ("Mémoires.")--"Mémorial de Sainte-Hélène"]

[Footnote 2110: "Extrait des Mémoires" de Boulay de la Meurthe, p.50. (Words of Bonaparte to
Roederer about Sieyès, who raised objections and wanted to retire.) "If Sieyès goes into the
country, draw up for me at once the plan of a constitution. I will summon the primary assemblies
in a week and make them accept it after discharging the (Constituant) committees."]

[Footnote 2111: "Correspondance de Napoléon ler" XXX., 345, 346. ("Mémoires.") "Circumstances
were such as to still make it necessary to disguise the unique magistracy of the president."]

[Footnote 2112: The Revolution," III., 458, 417.--"Mercure britannique," nos. for November
1798 and January 1799. (Letters from Belgium.)--"More than 300 millions have been seized by
force in these desolated provinces; there is not a landowner whose fortune has not been ruined,
or sequestrated, or fatally sapped by forced levies and the flood of taxes which followed these,
by robberies of movable property and the bankruptcy due to France having discredited claims
on the emperor and on the governments, in short through confiscation."--The insurrection breaks
out, as in Vendée, on account of the conscription; the war-cry of the insurgents is, "Better
die here than elsewhere."]

[Footnote 2113: De Martel, "Les Historiens fantaisistes," part 2 (on the Pacification of the
West, according to reports of the royalist leaders and of the republican generals).]

[Footnote 2114: Archives nationales, F7, 3218. (Summary of dispatches arranged according to
dates.-Letters of Adjutant-General Vicose, Fructidor 3, year VII.--Letters of Lamagdelaine,
commissioner of the executive Directory, Thermidor 26 and Fructidor 3, year VII.)--"The rascals
who led the people astray had promised them, in the King's name, that they should not be called
on for further taxes, that the conscripts and requisitionnaires should not leave, and, finally,
that they should have the priests they wanted."--Near Montréjean "the carnage was frightful,
nearly 2000 men slain or drowned and 1000 prisoners."--(Letter of M. Alquier to the first consul,
Pluviôse 18, year VIII.) "The insurrection of Thermidor caused the loss of 3000 cultivators.--(Letters
of the department administrators and of the government commissioners, Nivôse 25 and 27, Pluviôse
13, 15, 25, 27, and 30, year VIII.)--The insurrection is prolonged through a vast number of
isolated outrages, with sabers or guns, against republican functionaries and partisans, justices
of the peace, mayors, etc. In the commune of Balbèze, fifty conscripts, armed deserters with
their knapsacks, impose requisitions,give balls on Sunday, and make patriots give up their
arms. Elsewhere, this or that known patriot is assaulted in his house by a band of ten or a
dozen young folks who make him pay a ransom, shout "Vive le Roi!" etc.--Cf. "Histoire de I'
insurrection royaliste de l'an VII," by B. Lavigne, 1887.]

[Footnote 2115: Archives nationales, F7, 3273 (Letter of the commissioner of the executive
Directory, Vaucluse, Fructidor 6, year VII.): "Eighty armed royalists have carried off, near
the forest of Suze, the cash-box of the collector, Bouchet, in the name of Louis XVIII. These
rascals, it must be noted, did not take any of the money belonging to the collector himself."--(Ibid.,
Thermidor 3, year VII.) "On looking around among our communes I find all of them under the
control of royalist or town-councillors. That is the spirit of the peasants generally.... Public
spirit it so perverted, so opposed to the constitutional regime, that a miracle only will bring
them within the pale of freedom."--Ibid., F7, 3199. (Similar documents on the department of
Bouches-du-Rhône.) Outrages continue here far down into the consulate, in spite of the vigor
and multitude of military executions.--(Letter of the sub-prefect of Tarascon, Germinal 15,
year IX.) "In the commune of Eyragues, yesterday, at eight o'clock, a band of masked brigands
surrounded the mayor's house, while some of them entered it and shot this public functionary
without anybody daring to render him any assistance.... Three-quarters of the inhabitants of
Eyragues are royalists."--In series F7, 7152 and those following may be found an enumeration
of political crimes classified by department and by the month, especially for Messidor, year VII.]

[Footnote 2116: Barère, representative of Hautes Pyrénées, had preserved a good deal of credit
in this remote department, especially in the district of Argeles, with populations which knew
nothing about the "Mountain." I., 158. At the time the concordat was under consideration the
aversion to "priest rule" was very great in the army; there were secret meetings held against
it. Many of the superior officers took part in them, and even some of the leading generals.
Moreau was aware of them although he did not attend them. In one of these gatherings, things
were carried far enough to resolve upon the assassination of the first consul. A certain Donnadieu,
then of a low rank in the army, offered to strike the blow. General Oudinot, who was present,
informed Davoust, and Donnadieu, imprisoned in the Temple, made revelations. Measures were
at once taken to scatter the conspirators, who were all sent away more or less farther off;
some were arrested and others exiled, among them General Mounier, who had commanded one of
Desaix's brigades at Marengo. General Lecourbe was also one of the conspirators.]

[Footnote 2118: On the 18th Fructidor Napoléon used grape-shot and artillery to sweep the royalists
off the streets of Paris. It is merely a constituted authority emanating from the government
like the others."--Ibid., P.147: "It must not be in the power of a legislative body to impede
government by refusing taxes; once the taxes are established they should be levied by simple
decrees. The court of cassation regards my decrees as laws; otherwise, there would be no government."
(January 9, 1808.)--Ibid., p. 147:" If I ever had any fear of the senate I had only to put
fifty young state-councillors into it." (December 1, 1803.)--Ibid., p.150: "If an opposition
should spring up in the legislative corps I would fall back on the senate to prorogue, change
it, or break it up." (March 29, 1806.)--Ibid., p.151: "Sixty legislators go out every year
which one does not know what to do with; those who do not get places go and grumble in the
departments. I should like to have old land-owners married, in a certain sense, to the state
through their family or profession, attached by some tie to the commonwealth. Such men would
come to Paris annually, converse with the emperor in his own circle, and be contented with
this little bit of vanity relieving the monotony of their existence." (Same date.)--Cf. Thibaudeau,
"Mémoires sur le Consulat," ch. XIII., and M. de Metternich, "Mémoires," I., 120 (Words of
Napoleon at Dresden, in the spring of 1812): "I shall give the senate and the council of state
a new organization. The former will take the place of the upper chamber, the latter that of
the chamber of deputies. I shall continue to appoint the senators; I shall have the state councillors
elected one-third at a time on triple lists; the rest I will appoint. Here will the budget
be prepared and the laws elaborated."--We see the corps législatif, docile as it is, still
worrying him, and very justly; he foresaw the session of 1813.]

CHAPTER II. PUBLIC POWER

I. Principal service rendered by the public power.

     Principal service rendered by the public power.--It is an
     instrumentality.--A common law for every instrumentality.
     --Mechanical instruments.--Physiological instruments.--Social
     instruments.--The perfection of an instrument increases with
     the convergence of its effects.

What is the service which the public power renders to the public?--The principal one is the
protection of the community against the foreigner, and of private individuals against each
other.--Evidently, to do this, it must in all cases be provided with indispensable means, namely:
diplomats, an army, a fleet, arsenals, civil and criminal courts, prisons, a police, taxation
and tax-collectors, a hierarchy of agents and local supervisors, who, each in his place and
attending to his special duty, will co-operate in securing the desired effect.--Evidently,
again, to apply all these instruments, the public power must have, according to the case, this
or that form or constitution, this or that degree of impulse and energy: according to the nature
and gravity of external or internal danger, it is proper that it should be concentrated or
divided, emancipated from control or under control, authoritative or liberal. No indignation
need be cherished beforehand against its mechanism. Strictly speaking, it is a vast piece appliance
in the human community, such as a machine in a factory or such as organ in the human body.
If this organ is the only on that can carry out the task, let us accept it and its structure:
whoever wants the end wants the means. All we can ask is that the means shall be adapted to
the end; in other terms, that the myriad of large or small local or central pieces shall be
determined, adjusted, and coordinated in view of the final and total effect to which they co-operate
nearly or remotely.

But, whether simple or compound, every engine which does any work is subject to one condition;
the better it is suited to any distinct purpose the less it is suited to other purposes; as
its perfection increases, so does its application become limited.--Accordingly, if there are
two distinct instruments applied to two distinct objects, the more perfect they are, each of
its kind, the more do their domains become circumscribed and opposed to each other; as one
of them becomes more capable of doing its own work it becomes more incapable of doing the work
of the other; finally, neither can take the place of the other, and this is true whatever the
instrument may be, mechanical, physiological, or social.

At the very lowest grade of human industry the savage possesses but one tool; with his cutting
or pointed bit of stone he kills, breaks, splits, bores, saws, and carves; the instrument suffices,
in the main, for all sorts of services. After this come the lance, the hatchet, the hammer,
the punch, the saw, the knife, each adapted to a distinct purpose and less efficacious outside
of that purpose: one cannot saw well with a knife, and one cuts badly with a saw. Later, highly-perfected
engines appear, and, wholly special, the sewing-machine and the typewriter: it is impossible
to sew with the typewriter or write with the sewing-machine.--In like manner, when at the lowest
round of the organic ladder the animal is simply a shapeless jelly, homogeneous and viscous,
all parts of it are equally suited to all functions; the amoebae, indifferently and by all
the cells of its body, can walk, seize, swallow, digest, breathe, and circulate all its fluids,
expel its waste, and propagate its species. A little higher up, in fresh-water polyp, the internal
sac which digests and the outer skin which serves to envelop it can, if absolutely necessary,
change their functions; if you turn the animal inside out like a glove it continues to live;
its skin, become internal, fulfills the office of a stomach; its stomach, become external,
fulfills the office of an envelope. But, the higher we ascend, the more do the organs, complicated
by the division and subdivision of labor, diverge, each to its own side, and refuse to take
each other's place. The heart, with the mammal, is only good for impelling the blood, while
the lungs only furnish the blood with oxygen; one cannot possibly do the work of the other;
between the two domains the special structure of the former and the special structure of the
latter interpose an impassable barrier.--In like manner, finally, at the very bottom of the
social scale--lower down than the Andamans and the Fuegians--we find a primitive stage of humanity
in which society consists wholly of a herd. In this herd there is no distinct association in
view of a distinct purpose; there is not even a family--no permanent tie between male and female;
there is simply a contact of the sexes. Gradually, in this herd of individuals, all equal and
all alike, particular groups define themselves, take shape, and separate: we see appearing
more and more precise relationships, more and more distinct habitations, more and more hereditary
homesteads, fishing, hunting, and war groups, and small workshops; if the people is a conquering
people, castes establish themselves. At length, we find in this expanded and solidly-organized
social body provinces, communes, churches, hospitals, schools, corporate bodies and associations
of every species and dimension, temporary or permanent, voluntary or involuntary, in brief,
a multitude of social engines constructed out of human beings who, on account of personal interest,
habit, and constraint, or through inclination, conscience, and generosity, co-operate according
to a public or tacit statute in effecting in the material or spiritual order of things this
or that determinate undertaking. In France, to-day, there are, besides the State, eighty-six
departments, thirty-six thousand communes, four church bodies, forty thousand parishes, seven
or eight millions of families, millions of agricultural, industrial, and commercial establishments,
hundreds of institutions of science and art, thousands of educational and charitable institutions,
benevolent and mutual-aid societies, and others for business or for pleasure by tens and hundreds
and thousands, in short, innumerable associations of every kind, each with a purpose of its
own, and, like a tool or a special organ, carrying out a distinct work.

Now, each of these associations so far as it is a tool or an organ is subject to the same law;
the better it is in one direction, the more mediocre it is in other directions; its special
competency constitutes its general incompetence. This is why, among developed nations, no specialized
organization can replace another in a satisfactory manner. [2201] And the reason is that an
instrument, whatever it may be, a mechanical tool, or physiological organ, or human association,
is always a system of pieces whose effects converge to a given end; it matters little whether
the pieces are bits of wood and metal, as in the tool, cells and fibers, as in the organ, souls
and understandings, as in the association; the essential thing is the convergence of their
effects; for the more convergent these effects, the more efficient is the instrument in the
realization of its end. But, through this convergence, it takes one direction exclusively and
cannot take any other; it cannot operate at once in two different senses; it cannot possibly
turn to the right and at the same time turn to the left. If any social instrument devised for
a special service is made to act additionally for another, it will perform its own office badly
as well the one it usurps. Of the two works executed by it, the first injures the second and
the second injures the first one. The end, ordinarily, is the sacrifice of one to the other,
and, most frequently, the failure of both.

II. Abusive Government Intervention.

     Application of this law to the public power.--General effect
     of its intervention.

Let us follow out the effects of this law when it is the public power which, beyond its principal
and peculiar task, undertakes a different task and puts itself in the place of corporate bodies
to do their work; when the State, not content with protecting the community and individuals
against external or internal oppression, takes upon itself additionally the government of churches,
education, or charity, the direction of art, science, and of commercial, agricultural, municipal,
or domestic affairs.--Undoubtedly, it can intervene in all corporate bodies other than itself;
it has both the right and the duty to interfere; it is bound to do this through its very office
as defender of persons and property, to repress in these bodies spoliation and oppression,
to compel in them the observance of the primordial statute, charter, or contract, to maintain
in the them rights of each member fixed by this statute, to decide according to this statute
all conflicts which may arise between administrators and the administrated, between directors
and stockholders, between pastors and parishioners, between deceased founders and their living
successors. In doing this, it affords them its tribunals, its constables, and its gendarmes,
and it affords these to them only with full consent after having looking into and accepted
the statute. This, too, is one of the obligations of its office: its mandate hinders it from
placing the public power at the service of despoiling and oppressive enterprises; it is interdicted
from authorizing a contract for prostitution or slavery, and above all, for the best of reasons,
a society for brigandage and insurrections, an armed league, or ready to arm itself, against
the community, or a part of the community, or against itself.--But, between this legitimate
intervention which enables it to maintain rights, and the abusive interference by which it
usurps rights, the limit is visible and it oversteps this limit when, to its function of justiciary,
it adds a second, that of governing or supporting another corporation. In this case two series
of abuses unfold themselves; on the one side, the State acts contrary to its primary office,
and, on the other, it discharges the duties of its superadded office badly.[2202]

III. The State attacks persons and property.

     It acts against its function. Its encroachments are attacks
     on persons and property.

For, in the first place, to govern another corporate body, for example the Church, the State
at one time appoints its ecclesiastical heads, as under the old monarchy after the abolition
of the Pragmatic Sanction by the Concordat of 1516; at another, as with the Constituent Assembly
in 1791, without appointing its heads, it invents a new mode of appointment by imposing on
the Church a discipline contrary to its spirit and even to its dogmas. Sometimes it goes further
still and reduces a special body into a mere administrative branch, transforming its heads
into revocable functionaries whose acts it orders and directs; such under the Empire as well
as under the Restoration, were the mayor and common-councilors in a commune, and the professors
and head-masters of the University. One step more and the invasion is complete: naturally,
either through ambition or precaution, or through theory or prejudice, on undertaking a new
service it is tempted to reserve to itself or delegate its monopoly. Before 1789 there existed
one of these monopolies to the advantage of the Catholic Church, through the interdiction of
other cults, also another to the advantage of each corporation of "Arts et Métiers," through
the interdiction of free labor; after 1800, there existed one for the benefit of the University
through all sorts of shackles and constraints imposed on the establishment and maintenance
of private schools.--Now, through each of these constraints the State encroaches on the domain
of the individual; the more extended its encroachments the more does it prey upon and reduce
the circle of spontaneous initiation and of independent action, which constitute the true life
of the individual; if, in conformity with the Jacobin program, it pushes its interference to
the end, it absorbs in itself all other lives;[2203] henceforth, the community consists only
of automata maneuvered from above, infinitely small residues of men, passive, mutilated, and,
so to say, dead souls; the State, instituted to preserve persons, has reduced them to nonentities.

The effect is the same with property when the State supports other organizations than its own.
For, to maintain these, it has no other funds than those of the taxpayers; consequently, using
its collectors, it takes the money out of their pockets; all, indiscriminately, willingly or
not, pay supplementary taxes for supplementary services, whether this service benefits them
or is repugnant to them. If I am a Protestant in a Catholic State, or a Catholic in a Protestant
State, I pay for religion which seems wrong to me and for a Church which seems to me mischievous.
If I am a skeptic, a free-thinker, indifferent or hostile to positive religions in France,
I pay to-day for the support of four cults which I regard as useless or pernicious. If I am
a provincial or a peasant, I pay for maintaining an "Opéra" which I never attend and for a
"Sèvres" and "Gobelins" of which I never see a vase or a piece of tapestry.--In times of tranquility
the extortion is covered up, but in troubled times it is nakedly apparent. Under the revolutionary
government, bands of collectors armed with pikes made raids on villages as in conquered countries;[2204]
the farmer, collared and kept down by blows from the butt end of a musket, sees his grain taken
from his barn and his cattle from their stable; "all scampered off on the road to the town;"
while around Paris, within a radius of forty leagues, the departments fasted in order that
the capital might be fed. With gentler formalities, under a regular government, a similar extortion
occurs when the State, employing a respectable collector in uniform, takes from our purse a
crown too much for an office outside of its competency. If, as with the Jacobin State, it claims
all offices, it empties the purse entirely; instituted for the conservation of property, it
confiscates the whole of it.--Thus, with property, as with persons, when the state proposes
to itself another purpose than the preservation of these, not only does it overstep its mandate
but it acts contrary to its mandate.

IV. Abuse of State powers.

     It badly fills the office of the bodies it supplant.--Cases
     in which it usurps their powers and refuses to be their
     substitute.--Cases in which it violates or profits by their
     mechanism.--In all cases it is bad or mediocre substitute.
     --Reasons derived from its structure compared with that of
     other bodies.

Let us consider the other series of abuses, and the way in which the State performs the service
of the corporate bodies it supplants.

In the first place there is a chance that, sooner or later, it will shirk this work, for this
new service is more or less costly, and, sooner or later, it seems too costly.--Undoubtedly
the State has promised to defray expenses; sometimes even, like the Constituent and Legislative
assemblies, the revenues for this having been confiscated, it has to furnish an equivalent;
it is bound by contract to make good the local or special sources of revenue which it has appropriated
or dried up, to furnish in exchange a supply of water from the grand central reservoir, the
public treasury.--But if water becomes low in this reservoir, if the taxes in arrears stop
the regular supply, if a war happens to open a large breach in it, if the prodigality and incapacity
of the rulers, multiply its fissures and leaks, then there is no money on hand for accessory
and secondary services. The State, which has adopted this service drops it: we have seen under
the Convention and the Directory how, having taken the property of all corporations, provinces,
and communes, of institutions of education, art, and science, of churches, hospitals, and asylums,
it performed their functions; how, after having been a despoiler and a robber, it became insolvent
and bankrupt; how its usurpation and bankruptcy ruined and then destroyed all other services;
how, through the double effect of its intervention and desertion, it annihilated in France
education, worship, and charity; why the streets in the towns were no longer lighted nor swept;
why, in the provinces, roads went to decay, and dikes crumbled; why schools and churches stood
empty or were closed; why, in the asylum and in the hospital, foundlings died for lack of milk,
the infirm for lack of clothing and food, and the sick for lack of broth, medicines, and beds.[2205]

In the second place, even when the State respects a service or provides the means for it, there
is a chance that it will pervert this simply because it comes under its direction.--When rulers
lay their hands on an institution it is almost always for the purpose of making something out
of it for their own advantage and to its detriment: they render everything subordinate to their
interests or theories, they put some essential piece or wheel out of shape or place; they derange
its action and put the mechanism out of order; they make use of it as a fiscal, electoral,
or doctrinal engine, as a reigning or sectarian instrument.--Such, in the eighteenth century,
was the ecclesiastical staff with which we are familiar,[2206] court bishops, drawing-room
abbés imposed from above on their diocese or their abbey, non-residents, charged with functions
which they do not fulfill, largely-paid idlers, parasites of the Church, and, besides all this,
worldly, gallant, often unbelievers, strange leaders of a Christian clergy and which, one would
say, were expressly selected to undermine Catholic faith in the minds of their flocks, or monastic
discipline in their convents.--Such, in 1791,[2207] is the new constitutional clergy, schismatic,
excommunicated, interlopers, imposed on the orthodox majority to say masses which they deem
sacrilegious and to administer sacraments which they refuse to accept.

In the last place, even when the rulers do not subordinate the interests of the institution
to their passions, to their theories, or to their own interests, even when they avoid mutilating
it and changing its nature, even when they loyally fulfill, as well as they know how, the supererogatory
(distributive) mandate which they have adjudged to themselves, they infallibly fulfill it badly,
at least worse than the special and spontaneous bodies for which they substitute themselves,
for the structure of these bodies and the structure of the state are different.--Unique of
its kind, alone wielding the sword, acting from above and afar by authority and constraints,
the State acts over the entire territory through uniform laws, through imperative and minute
regulations, by a hierarchy of obedient functionaries, which it maintains under strict instructions.
Hence, it is not adapted to business which, to be well done, needs springs and processes of
another species. Its springs, wholly exterior, are insufficient, too weak to support and push
undertakings which require an internal motor like private interest, local patriotism, family
affections, scientific curiosity, charitable instincts, and religious faith. Its wholly mechanical
processes, too rigid and too limited, cannot urge on enterprises which demand of whoever undertakes
them delicate and safe handling, supple manipulation, appreciation of circumstances, ready
adaptation of means to ends, constant contrivance, the initiative, and perfect independence.
On this account the State is a poor head of a family, a poor commercial or agricultural leader,
a bad distributor of labor and of subsistence, a bad regulator of production, exchanges, and
consumption, a mediocre administrator of the province and the commune, an undiscerning philanthropist,
an incompetent director of the fine arts, of science, of instruction, and of worship.[2208]
In all these offices its action is either dilatory or bungling, according to routine or oppressive,
always expensive, of little effect and feeble in returns, and always beyond or apart from the
real wants it pretends to satisfy. The reason is that it starts from too high a point therefore
extending over too vast a field. Transmitted by hierarchical procedures, it lags along in formalism,
and loses itself in "red-tape." On attaining its end and object it applies the same program
to all territories alike a program devised beforehand in the Cabinet, all of a piece, without
experimental groping and the necessary corrections;

* a program which, calculated approximately according to the average and the customary, is
not exactly suited to any particular case;

* a program which imposes its fixed uniformity on things instead of adjusting itself to its
diversity and change;

* a sort of model coat, obligatory in pattern and stuff, which the government dispatches by
thousands from the center to the provinces, to be worn, willingly or not, by figures of all
sizes and at all seasons.

V. Final Results of Abusive Government Intervention

     Other consequences.--Suppressed or stunted bodies cease to
     grow.--Individuals become socially and politically
     incapable.--The hands into which public power then falls.
     --Impoverishment and degradation of the social body.

And much worse. Not only does the State do the work badly on a domain not its own, roughly,
at greater cost, and with smaller yield than spontaneous organizations, but, again, through
the legal monopoly which it deems its prerogative, or through its unfair competition, it kills
and paralyzes these natural organizations or prevents their birth; and hence so many precious
organs, which, absorbed, curbed or abandoned, are lost to the great social body.--And still
worse, if this system lasts, and continues to crush them out, the human community loses the
faculty of reproducing them; entirely extirpated, they do not grow again; even their germ has
perished. Individuals no longer know how to form associations, how to co-operate under their
own impulses, through their own initiative, free of outside and superior constraint, all together
and for a long time in view of a definite purpose, according to regular forms under freely-chosen
chiefs, frankly accepted and faithfully followed. Mutual confidence, respect for the law, loyalty,
voluntary subordination, foresight, moderation, patience, perseverance, practical good sense,
every disposition of head and heart, with which no association of any kind is efficacious or
even viable, have died out for lack of exercise. Henceforth spontaneous, pacific, and fruitful
co-operation, as practiced by a free people, is unattainable; men have arrived at social incapacity
and, consequently, at political incapacity.--In fact they no longer choose their own constitution
or their own rulers; they put with these, willingly or not, according as accident or usurpation
furnishes them: now the public power belongs to the man, the faction, or the party sufficiently
unscrupulous, sufficiently daring, sufficiently violent, to seize and hold on to it by force,
to make the most of it as an egotist or charlatan, aided by parades and prestige, along with
bravura songs and the usual din of ready-made phrases on the rights of Man and the public salvation.--This
central power itself has in its hands no body who might give it an impetus and inspiration,
it rules only over an impoverished, inert, or languid social body, solely capable of intermittent
spasms or of artificial rigidity according to order, an organism deprived of its secondary
organs, simplified to excess, of an inferior or degraded kind, a people no longer anything
but an arithmetical sum of separate, unconnected units, in brief, human dust or mud.--This
is what the interference of the State leads to.

There are laws in the social and moral world as in the physiological and physical world; we
may misunderstand them, but we cannot elude them; they operate now against us, now for us,
as we please, but always alike and without heeding us; it is for us to heed them; for the two
conditions they couple together are inseparable; the moment the first appears the second inevitably
follows.

*****

[Footnote 2201: Macaulay, "Essays: Gladstone on Church and State."--This principle, of capital
importance and of remarkable fecundity, may be called the principle of specialties. Adam Smith
fist applied it to machines and to workmen. Macaulay extended it to human associations. Milne-Edwards
applied it to the entire series of animal organs. Herbert Spencer largely develops it in connection
with physiological organs and human societies in his "Principles of Biology" and "Principles
of Sociology." I have attempted here to show the three parallel branches of its consequences,
and, again, their common root, a constitutive and primordial property inherent in every instrumentality.]

[Footnote 2202: Cf. "The Revolution," III., book VI., ch. 2 The encroachments of the State
and their effect on individuals is there treated. Here, the question is their effects on corporations.
Read, on the same subject, "Gladstone on Church and State," by Macaulay, and "The Man versus
the State," by Herbert Spencer, two essays in which the close reasoning and abundance of illustrations
are admirable.]

[Footnote 2203: "The Revolution," III, 346. (Laffont II. p 258.)]

[Footnote 2204: Ibid., III. 284 Laff. 213.]

[Footnote 2205: "The Revolution," III., 353, 416. (Laffont II. notes pp 262 and 305 to 308.)]

[Footnote 2206: "The Ancient Régime," 64, 65, 76, 77, 120, 121, 292. (Laffont I. pp. 52-53,
60-61, 92 to 94, 218 to 219.)]

[Footnote 2207: "The Revolution," I., 177 and following pages. (Laffont I, pp. 438 to 445.)]

[Footnote 2208: The essays of Herbert Spencer furnish examples for England under the title
of "Over-legislation and Representative government." Examples for France may be found in "Liberté
du Travail," by Charles Dunoyer (1845). This work anticipates most of the ideas of Herbert
Spencer, lacking only the physiological "illustrations."]

CHAPTER III. THE NEW GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION.

I. Precedents of the new organization.

     Precedents of the new organization.--In practical
     operation.--Anterior usurpations of the public power.
     --Spontaneous bodies under the Ancient Regime and during the
     Revolution.--Ruin and discredit of their supports.--The
     central power their sole surviving dependence.

Unfortunately, in France at the end of the eighteenth century the bent was taken and the wrong
bent. For three centuries and more the public power had increasingly violated and discredited
spontaneous bodies:

Sometimes it had mutilated them and decapitated them; for example, it had suppressed provincial
governments (états) over three-quarters of the territory, in all the electoral districts; nothing
remained of the old province but its name and an administrative circumscription.

Sometimes, without mutilating the corporate body it had upset and deformed it, or dislocated
and disjointed it.--So that in the towns, through changes made in old democratic constitutions,
through restrictions put upon electoral rights and repeated sales of municipal offices,[2301]
it had handed over municipal authority to a narrow oligarchy of bourgeois families, privileged
at the expense of the taxpayer, half separated from the main body of the public, disliked by
the lower classes, and no longer supported by the confidence or deference of the community.
Such was the case with the corporations of crafts and industries to which, in consideration
of financial aid, it had conceded monopolies onerous to the consumer and a clog on industrial
enterprises. Such was the case with the Catholic Church to which, every five years, it granted,
in exchange for its voluntary gift (of money), cruel favors or obnoxious prerogatives, the
prolonged persecution of Protestants, the censorship of intellectual speculation, and the right
of controlling schools and education.[2305] Such was the case with the universities benumbed
by routine; with latest provincial "Ètats," constituted in 1789, as in 1489. Such was the case
with noble families subjected by law to the antique system of substitutions and of primogeniture,
that is to say, to social constraint which, devised long ago for private as well as for public
interest in order to secure the transmission of local patronage and political power. This system,
however, became useless and corrupting, fecund in pernicious vanities,[2306] in detestable
calculations, domestic tyrannies, forced vocations, and private bickering, from the time when
the nobles, become frequenters of the court, had lost political power and renounced local patronage.

