    DEAREST POPPY,--You know, don't you, that I write for the
    Press? You must write, ma chère, if you want to be dans le
    mouvement nowadays. It's getting to be almost as big a craze as
    jazzing and is quite as exciting. It has its difficulties, of
    course, but so has the jazz roll. And if you've got a title or
    have been mixed up in a cause célèbre you can write on anything
    sans aucune connaissance spéciale. Camilla Blythely says she
    just sends in her photo and signature and those obliging newspaper
    people do the rest--which is most helpful to a busy person. But
    then we can't all be as notorious as dear Camilla.

    I hope it isn't getting just a little overdone. But I hear that
    lots of papers are offering only three guineas a column now for
    quite important signatures, while others actually insist on
    contributors writing their own articles.

    Quant à moi, I'm writing up the light side of the Peace
    Conference. I do those snappy pars about LLOYD GEORGE'S ties and
    CLEMENCEAU'S gloves and all those little domestic touches that
    people would much rather read about than such remote things as
    Czecho-Slovaks and Jugo-Slavs. I did a most thrilling three
    columns about the hats of the delegates, from the bowler of Mr.
    BONAR LAW to the "coffieh" and "igal" headdress of EMIR FAISUL,
    the Arab Prince. (It's always so effective if you can stick in a
    word or two like that that nobody understands. You never need get
    them right).

    Talking of odd words, the latest boutade over here is to find
    new names and epithets for our dress materials--some of them quite
    weird. If you want a silk tricot you ask for "djersador,"
    while a coarser texture is "djersacier"; "mousseux" now
    describes velvet as well as champagne; ninon is known as
    "vapoureuse"; while to make one of the newest Spring dresses you
    require only three-and-a-half yards of "Salomé." Some of the
    couturiers in the Rue de la Paix are issuing fashion-pronouncing
    handbooks, while others have their own interpreters to assist
    customers.

    The theatres over here are getting extremely--well, what our
    grandparents termed "risqués," but it really goes further than
    that. And the worst of it is my countrypeople seem to think
    it's the smart thing to go to them, which they do most
    indiscriminately. Heureusement they don't understand the stuff.
    Whenever I see a most circumspect and highly proper British matron
    entering one of the Boulevard theatres nowadays I think what
    a mercy it is that we as a nation rely so much on pronouncing
    phrase-books for acquiring foreign languages. It keeps one so
    single-minded in the midst of a wicked world.

    But, after all, propriety is a question de localité. Else why
    do people do things here which would badly shock us at home? Par
    exemple, dancing between the courses of a meal is our latest
    caprice here; but I was un peu étonnée, the other evening, to
    see the Duchess of Mintford, at a restaurant of the most chic,
    jazzing off the effects of the turbot with light-hearted
    abandon.

    Unfortunately a waiter carrying a tray darted across the track
    at the very moment when she was involved in that step so
    embrouillant, the side-roll.

    It took quite a long time to collect, and put in their proper
    order, the waiter, the contents of the tray, her Grace and all the
    other jazzers who were coming up behind.

    But, après tout, little comment was roused because most of the
    onlookers thought the incident was just part of the dance.

    So long, old thing.

    Bien à vous,

    ANNE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRUMP SUIT.

  Those who wield Britannia's power
  Have decreed a blissful hour,
  When the mellow bugle-note
  Sounds in every ship afloat,
  And you see the forrard decks
  Littered up with leathernecks,
  Seamen sprawling on the hatches,
  Darning socks and fitting patches,
  Cleaning jumpers, sewing, smoking,
  Writing, fighting, sleeping, joking,
  Baiting foe and twitting friend--
  Sailors call it "Make and Mend."

  In this jolly throng each day
  Gunner 'Erbert, R.M.A.,
  Sat and smoked serenely bored,
  So that I must needs record
  When that precious hour was ended
  He had neither made nor mended.

  'Erbert was a crumpled rose
  In the beds of N.C.O.'s,
  And a blot on the escutcheon
  Which they pride themselves so much on;
  For, in spite of threat and curse,
  Cells and badges lost, or worse,
  Captain's frown or sergeants' oaths,
  'Erbert wouldn't mend his clothes.

  In a distant Eastern land
  Certain tribes got out of hand,
  And, to comfort little Mary,
  Sought to stew the missionary.
  Our Marines were duly sent
  To apportion chastisement,
  And they snatched him from the larder,
  But alas! pursuing harder
  Than was wise in such a scrap,
  They were landed in a trap.
  For the wily natives got
  All around and copped the lot,
  Stripping off them every stitch
  Of the clothes they stood in, which,
  I am sure you'll all agree,
  Was a great indignity.

  Copped the lot? No, there was one
  Absent when the deed was done.
  'Erb, with his accustomed push,
  Was advancing when the bush
  Dragged the last remaining stitches
  From the bag he called his breeches,
  Leaving nothing but the dregs
  Of the red stripe down his legs.
  'Erbert paused; though not a prude,
  He had never liked the nude.

  Seated in a distant clearing.
  He remarked the natives cheering,
  And, directed by the din,
  Saw the plight his mates were in.
  When he thought the time was ripe,
  Clad in little but his stripe
  'Erbert charged.... The tribes in wonder
  Promptly bolted with the plunder.

  'Erbert with averted head
  Quickly gathered every shred
  Of his late-lamented kit,
  Saying, as he handed it
  To the Major, "I infer
  You have lost your breeches, Sir."

  With his glasses in his hands
  On his deck the Captain stands,
  Watching with surprise and fear
  His detachment reappear--
  First the Major, garbed in dirt
  And the tail of 'Erbert's shirt;
  Then the Sergeant, better dressed
  In the sleeves of 'Erbert's vest;
  Then the rest in fragments torn
  From the jumper he had worn.
  Last comes 'Erbert, proud as NELSON,
  With a smile and nothing else on.

  Is it Fortune's final stroke,
  Or the Skipper's little joke?
  As the ladder they ascend
  Comes the bugle "Make and Mend."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A flotilla of Portuguese warships is actively maintaining the
    blockade between the mouth of the Volga and that of the Minho."

    Daily Paper.

The report that the Bolshevists have borrowed a "Big Bertha" and are meditating a bombardment
of Lisbon by way of reprisal is as yet unconfirmed.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. W.A. Appleton, secretary of the Feedration of Trade Unions,
    declares that since the Armistice the federation 'has lost no
    opportunity of endeavouring to smash the controls that meant
    continued high prices (of food)."--Evening Paper.

More power to the "Feedration" in its self-sacrificing campaign.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RIGHTS OF LABOUR.

(Extract from "The Times and Mail" of January 1st, 1925.)

A significant case was heard yesterday in the courts, when William Blogg, bricklayer's labourer,
recovered twenty-five pounds damages from James Buskin Carruthers, artist, for injury done
to the plaintiff's eight-cylinder car through defendant's culpable negligence in allowing himself
to be run over by it.

