There is a full-length portrait of Edmund Burke in the Examination Hall of the Dublin University.
All such portraits should be copied, and preserved in our own Houses of Parliament, a meet
honor to the dead, and a stimulant to the living to "go and do likewise." It hardly realizes,
however, the ideal of Burke; perhaps no portrait could. What Miss Edgeworth called the "ground-plan
of the face" is there; but we must imagine the varying expression, the light of the bright
quick eyes, the eloquence of the unclosed lips, the storm which could gather thunder-clouds
on the well-formed brow; but we have far exceeded our limits without exhausting our subject,
and, with Dr. Parr, still would speak of Burke:

"Of Burke, by whose sweetness Athens herself would have been soothed, with whose amplitude
and exuberance she would have been enraptured and on whose lips that prolific mother of genius
and science would have adored, confessed--the Goddess of Persuasion."

Alas! we have lingered long at his shrine, and yet our praise is not half spoken.

--[The notes and drawings for this paper were contributed by F. W. Fairhold, of the Society
of Antiquaries.]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Sylvanus Spenser, the eldest son of the Poet Spenser, married Ellen Nagle, eldest daughter
of David Nagle, Esq., ancestor of the lady, who was mother to Edmund Burke.

[3] Our cut exhibits all that now remains of Gregories--a few walls and a portion of the old
stables. It was destroyed by fire soon afterwards.

[4] During Barry's five years' residence abroad he earned nothing for himself, and received
no supplies save from Edmund and Richard Burke.

[5] Mr. Prior says in his admirable Life of Burke--"How the money to effect this purchase was
procured has given rise to many surmises and reports; a considerable portion was his own, the
bequest of his father and elder brother. The Marquis of Rockingham offered the loan of the
amount required to complete the purchase; the Marquis was under obligations to him publicly,
and privately for some attention paid to the business of his large estates in Ireland. Less
disinterested men would have settled the matter otherwise--the one by quartering his friend,
the other, by being quartered, on the public purse. To the honor of both, a different course
was pursued."

[6] Waller was a resident in this vicinity, in which his landed property chiefly lay. He lived
in the family mansion named Well's Court, a property still in the possession of his descendants.
His tomb is a table monument of white marble, upon which rises a pyramid, resting on skulls
with bat's wings; it is a peculiar but picturesque addition to the churchyard, and, from its
situation close to the walk, attracts much attention.

[7] Our engraving exhibits his simple tablet, as seen from the central aisle of the church,
immediately in front of the pew in which Burke and his family always sat.

POEMS BY S. G. GOODRICH[8]

For the last twenty years the name of Mr. Goodrich has been very constantly associated with
American literature. He commenced as a publisher, in Boston, and was among the first to encourage
by liberal copyrights, and to make attractive by elegant editions, the works of American authors.
One of his earliest undertakings was a collection of the novels of Charles Brockden Brown,
with a memoir of that author, by his widow, with whom he shared the profits. In 1828 he began
"The Token," an annual literary souvenir, which he edited and published fourteen years. In
this appeared the first fruits of the genius of Cheney, who has long been acknowledged the
master of American engravers; and the first poems and prose writings of Longfellow, Willis,
Mellen, Mrs. Osgood, Mrs. Child, Mrs. Sigourney, and other eminent authors. In "The Token"
also were printed his own earlier lyrical pieces. The work was of the first rank in its class,
and in England as well as in this country it was uniformly praised.

In 1831 an anonymous romance was published by Marsh & Capen, of Boston. It was attributed by
some to Willis, and by others to Mrs. Child, then Miss Francis. It illustrated a fine and peculiar
genius, but was soon forgotten. Mr. Goodrich appreciated its merits, and applied to the publishers
for the name of the author, that he might engage him as a contributor to "The Token." They
declined to disclose his secret, but offered to forward a letter to him. Mr. Goodrich wrote
one, and received an answer signed by NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE, many of whose best productions,
as "Sights from a Steeple," "Sketches under an Umbrella," "The Prophetic Pictures," "Canterbury
Pilgrims," &c., appeared in this annual. In 1839, Mr. Goodrich suggested to Mr. Hawthorne the
publication of a collection of his tales, surrendering his copyrights to several of them for
this purpose; but so little were the extraordinary qualities of this admirable author then
understood, that the publishers would not venture upon such an experiment without an assurance
against loss, which Mr. Goodrich, as his friend, therefore gave. The public judgment will be
entitled to little respect, if the copyright of the works of Hawthorne be not hereafter a most
ample fortune.

Mr. Goodrich soon abandoned the business of publishing, and, though still editing "The Token,"
devoted his attention chiefly to the writing of that series of educational works, known as
Peter Parley's, which has spread his fame over the world. The whole number of these volumes
is about sixty. Among them are treatises upon a great variety of subjects, and they are remarkable
for simplicity of style and felicity of illustration. Mr. Goodrich has accomplished a complete
and important revolution in juvenile reading, substituting truth and nature for grotesque fiction
in the materials and processes of instruction, and his method has been largely imitated, at
home and abroad. In England many authors and publishers have disgraced the literary profession
by works under the name of "Parley," with which he has had nothing to do, and which have none
of his wise and genial spirit.

Besides his writings under this pseudonym, Mr. Goodrich has produced several works of a more
ambitious character, which have been eminently popular. Among them is a series entitled "The
Cabinet Library," embracing histories, biographies, and essays in science; "Universal Geography,"
in an octavo volume of one thousand pages; and a "History of all Nations," in two large octavos,
in which he has displayed such research, analysis, and generalization, as should insure for
him an honorable rank among historians. We cannot better illustrate his popularity than by
stating the fact, that more than four hundred thousand volumes of his various productions are
now annually sold in this country and Europe. No living writer is, therefore, as much read,
and in the United States hardly a citizen now makes his first appearance at the polls, or a
bride at the altar, to whose education he has not in a large degree contributed. For twenty
years he has preserved the confidence of parents and teachers of every variety of condition
and opinion, by the indefectible morality and strong practical sense, which are universally
understood and approved.

Like many other eminent persons, Mr. Goodrich lets sought occasional relaxation from the main
pursuits of his life in poetry, and the volume before us contains some forty illustrations
of his abilities, as a worshipper of the muse whose temples are most thronged, but who is most
coy and most chary of her inspiration. They have for the most part been previously printed
in "The Token," or in literary journals, but a few are now published the first time. In typographical
and pictorial elegance the book is unique. It is an exhibition of the success of the first
attempt to rival the London and Paris publishers in woodcut embellishment and general beauty
of execution.

The "Birth Night of the Humming Birds" has been declared by the London Athenæum equal to Dr.
Drake's "Culprit Fay," and it may be regarded as in its way the best specimen of Mr. Goodrich's
talents. It is too long to be quoted in these paragraphs. In descriptions of nature he is uniformly
successful, presenting his picture with force and distractness.

There are many examples of this in one of his longest poems, "The Mississippi," in which the
traditions that cluster around the Father of Waters, and the advances of civility along his
borders, are graphically presented. The river is described as rising.

In the volume are several allegorical pieces of much merit, of which the most noticeable are
the "Two Windmills," "The Bubble Chase," and "The Rainbow Bridge."

The longest of Mr. Goodrich's poems is "The Outcast." It was first published many years ago,
and it appears now with the improvements suggested by reflection and criticism. Its fault is,
a certain intensity, but it has noble passages, betraying a careful study and profound appreciation
of the subtler operations of the mind, particularly, when, in its most excited action, it is
influenced by the observation of nature.

The volume will take its place in the cabinets of our choice literature, and will be prized
the more for the fact that by selecting American themes for his most elaborate compositions,
Mr. Goodrich has made literature subservient to the purposes of patriotism.

FOOTNOTES:

[8] Poems: by S. G. Goodrich. New York, G. P. Putnam. [The designs--about forty--are by Mr.
Billings, the engravings by Bobbett & Edmonds, Lossing & Barrett, Hartwell, and others, and
the printing by Mr. John F. Trow.]

RICHARD B. KIMBALL.

The author of "St. Leger" was by that admirable work placed in the leading rank of the new
generation of American writers. The appearance in the Knickerbocker for the present month,
of the commencement of a sequel to "St. Leger," makes it a fit occasion for some notice of
his life and genius.

Mr. Kimball is by inheritance of the first class of New-England men, numbering in his family
a signer of the Declaration of Independence, a President of the Continental Congress, and several
other persons honorably distinguished in affairs. He is a native of Lebanon, in New Hampshire,
where his father is still living--the centre of a circle bound to him by their respect for
every public and private virtue. Though he had completed his preparatory studies before he
was eleven years of age, he did not enter college until he was nearly thirteen. Four years
after, in 1834, he graduated at Dartmouth, and upon devoting one year to the study of the law,
he went abroad; travelled in England, Scotland, and Germany; and resided some time in Paris,
where he attended the lectures of Majendie, Broussais, and Louis, in medicine, and those of
the elder Dupin, and Coulanges, in law. Returning, he entered upon the practice of the law,
at Waterford, in this state, but soon removed to New-York, where a year's devotion to his profession
made him familiar with its routine. In 1842 he went a second time to Europe, renewing the associations
of his travel and student-life in Great Britain and on the continent. Since, for seven years,
he has been an industrious and successful lawyer in New-York.

Although but few works are known to be from the pen of Mr. Kimball, he has been a voluminous
author. The vigorous and polished style of his avowed compositions, is never attained but by
long practice. He has been, we believe, a contributor to every volume of the Knickerbocker
published since 1842. He printed in that excellent magazine his "Reminiscences of an Old Man,"
"The Young Englishman," and the successive chapters of "St. Leger, or the Threads of Life."
This last work was published by Putnam, and by Bentley in London, about one year ago, and it
passed rapidly through two English and three American editions. It was not raised into an ephemeral
popularity, as so many works of fiction easily are, for their lightness, by careless applauses;
it arrested the attention of the wisest critics; commanded their study, and received their
verdict of approval as a book of learning and reflection in the anatomy of human life.

Mr. Kimball had been eminent in his class at college for a love of Greek literature, and he
studied the Roman also with reverent attention. It was his distinction that he had thoroughly
acquainted himself with the philosophy of the ancients. At a later day he was attracted by
the speculation of the Germans, and a mastery of their language enabled him to enter fully
into the spirit of Spinosa, Kant, and Fichte, as he did into that of the finer intelligences,
Göethe and Richter, and pervading he found the passion to know Whence are we? What are we?
Whither do we go? In "St. Leger," a mind predisposed to superstition by some vague prophecies
respecting the destiny of his family--a mind inquisitive, quick, and earnest, but subject to
occasional melancholy, as the inherited spell obtains a mastery of the reason--is exposed to
the influences of a various study, and startling experiences, all conceived with a profound
knowledge of human nature, and displayed with consummate art; having a metaphysical if not
a strictly dramatic unity; and conducting by the subtlest processes, to the determination of
these questions, and the flowering of a high and genial character; as Professor Tayler Lewis
expresses it, "at rest, deriving substantial enjoyment from the present, because satisfied
with respect to the ultimate, and perfect, and absolute."[9]

Aside from its qualities as a delineation of a deep inner experience, "St. Leger" has very
great merits as a specimen of popular romantic fiction. The varied characters are admirably
drawn, and are individual, distinct, and effectively contrasted. The incidents are all shaped
and combined with remarkable skill; and, as the Athenaeum observes, "Here, there, everywhere,
the author gives evidence of passionate and romantic power." In some of the episodes, as in
that of Wolfgang Hegewisch, for example, in which are illustrated the tendency of a desperate
philosophy and hopeless skepticism, we have that sort of mastery of the feelings, that chaining
of the intensest interest, which distinguishes the most wonderful compositions of Poe, or the
German Hoffman, or Zschokke in his "Walpurgis Night;" and every incident in the book tends
with directest certainty to the fulfilment of its main design.

The only other work of which Mr. Kimball is the acknowledged author, is "Cuba and the Cubans;"
a volume illustrative of the history, and social, political, and economical condition of the
island of Cuba, written during the excitement occasioned by its invasion from the United States,
in 1849, and exhibiting a degree of research, and a judicial fairness of statement and argument,
which characterizes no other production upon this subject. As it was generally admitted to
be the most reliable, complete, and altogether important work, upon points commanding the attention
of several nations, its circulation was very large; but it was produced for a temporary purpose,
and it will be recalled to popularity only by a renewal of the inevitable controversies which
await the political relations of the Antilles.

"A Story of Calais," in the following pages, is an example of Mr. Kimball's success as a tale
writer. Though less remarkable than passages in "St. Leger," it will vindicate his right to
a place among the chief creators of such literature among us.

FOOTNOTES:

[9] The Inner-Life, a Review of St. Leger, by Professor Tayler Lewis, LL. D., &c.

THE BISHOP OF JAMAICA.

Among the distinguished strangers who visited the United States during the last season, no
one has left a more favorable impression upon American society than the thoroughly accomplished
scholar and highbred gentleman, the Bishop of Jamaica. We propose a brief sketch of his history:

AUBREY GEORGE SPENCER, D.D. and D.C.L., was born in London on the 12th of February, 1795, and
is the eldest son of the late Hon. William Spencer, the poet, whose father, Lord Charles Spencer,
was a son of Charles the second Duke of Marlborough, and grandson of John Churchill, the illustrious
hero of Ramillies and Blenheim. His Christian names were given by the Dukes of St. Albans and
Marlborough, who were his great uncles and godfathers. His mother was Susan Jennison, a countess
of the Holy Roman Empire, and a lady of singular beauty and accomplishments, to whom Mr. William
Spencer was married at the court of Hesse Darmstadt, in 1791. Aubrey Spencer and his younger
brother George (subsequently Bishop of Madras,) received the rudiments of learning at the Abbey
School of St. Albans, whence the former was soon removed to the seminary of the celebrated
Grecian, D. Burme, of Greenwich, and the latter to the Charter house. For some time previous
to his matriculation at Magdalen Hall, Oxford, Mr. Aubrey Spencer was the private pupil of
Mr. Mitchell, the very learned translator of Aristophanes. At the house of his father in Curzon
street, at Melbourne House in Chiswick, Blenheim, and Woolbeednig, Hallowell Hill, (the seat
of the Countess Dowager Spencer,) he was in frequent and familiar intercourse with many of
the most distinguished contemporary statesmen, philosophers, and other men of letters; and
in this society his own literary and conversational talents obtained an early celebrity, and
commended him to the regard and friendship of Mr. Rogers, Mr. Campbell, Lord Byron, Mr. Hallam,
Lord Dudley, Mr. Coutts, Mr. Wordsworth, Mr. Francis, Mr. Homer, Thomas Moore, Mr. Southey,
Lady Caroline Lamb, Mr. Crabb, and many other authors, with some of whom he still maintains
a correspondence, while some have fallen asleep.

With the society of the county of Oxford, and with that of the University, he was equally popular.
In the early part of the year 1818, he took leave of his College, on being ordained deacon,
and entered on a charge of the parish of Great Oakering, in the diocese of London. From this,
which is a very unhealthy part of Essex, he removed at the end of the year to Bannam, Norfolk,
where he became the neighbor and frequent guest of the Earl of Albemarle and the Bishop of
Norwich. In March, 1819, he was admitted a priest, and soon after gave up the brilliant society
in which he had hitherto lived, and devoted himself to the Church in the Colonies, where, for
a quarter of a century, he has filled a distinguished part as archdeacon and bishop.

His first visit to the Bermudas was undertaken for the recovery of his health, to which a colder
climate has always been hostile; and when, in the year 1825, these islands were attached to
the diocese of Nova Scotia, he was, at the instance of the late Primate, appointed to them
as Archdeacon and Ecclesiastical Commissary to the Bishop of the see. Here he may be said to
have created the Ecclesiastical Establishment which, under his conciliatory influence, has
so rapidly and largely increased; and with it he soon associated the revival of Bishop Berkeley's
Classical Academy, and a system of general instruction, of which a chain of schoolhouses, from
either extremity of the island, are the abiding monuments.

From his connection with the Bishop of Nova Scotia, the visits of Archdeacon Spencer to that
colony were frequent, and many of the inhabitants both of that province and of New Brunswick
retain a lively impression of his abilities, as they were illustrated in his preaching and
in the practice of the other duties of his profession and position.

In July, 1839, Dr. Spencer was consecrated by the venerable Archbishop of Canterbury, on the
nomination of the crown, to the new see of Newfoundland, retaining still episcopal jurisdiction
over the isles of Bermuda, under the extension of the Colonial Episcopate, which relieved the
indefatigable Bishop of Nova Scotia of a large portion of his cares. The new Bishop was enabled,
by the aid of the Society for the Promotion of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, to quadruple the
number of his clergy within four years, and to consecrate more than twenty additional churches
within the same period. A very grateful sense of the Bishop's exertions, and of the prosperous
results of his unceasing labor, was manifested in the several addresses presented to his lordship
on his subsequent translation to the diocese of Jamaica, by the clergy and laity of Newfoundland
and Bermuda.

In a paper which only purports to be a biographical notice of one who is still living, it is
not desirable to do more than briefly advert to the principal topics and dates of a history
which may hereafter be advantageously amplified and filled up. The real progress of the established
church in Newfoundland at this period, would be best gathered from the Bishop's letters to
the government and the religious societies, and to the clergy under his jurisdiction, but to
these documents it is not likely that any biographer will have unreserved access during the
life of his lordship.

On the decease of Bishop Lipscombe, in April, 1843, Bishop Spencer was translated, under circumstances
peculiarly indicative of the high opinion which was had of his ability by the Queen's ministers
and the heads of the English church, to the see of Jamaica, one of the most important connected
with the crown. He quitted his old diocese, as the papers of the day amply testify, with the
respect of all denominations of Christians. A national ship, the Hermes, was appointed to convey
him and his family and suite to Jamaica, where he arrived in the first week of November, having
made the land on the auspicious festival of All Saints.

The sermon delivered by him at his installation, in the cathedral at Spanish Town, was published
at the request of the Speaker of the House of Assembly, while the Earl of Elgin, the Governor-General,
in his speech to the Legislature, "congratulated the inhabitants of Jamaica on the appointment
of a prelate of such approved talents and piety to that see." At every point of the Bishop's
visitation, which he commenced by a convention of eighty clergymen, at Spanish Town, he was
met by congratulatory addresses from the vestries, and other corporate bodies, declaratory
of their confidence in his projected measures, and of their desire to aid him in the extension
of the church. In consonance with his views the local Legislature passed an act increasing
the number of island curates, and providing higher salaries for their support, while at the
same time, they granted three thousand pounds as a first instalment to the Church Society,
which had been organized by him, and to which the Governor-General contributed the annual sum
of one hundred pounds.

On his visit to England in 1845 and in the beginning of 1846, he was continually employed in
preaching in aid of various charities, and in assisting at public meetings which had for their
object the promotion of Christianity by the servants of the church. At the weekly meetings
of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, in London, he was a constant attendant; and
the increase of the funds of that association, and the conciliation to it of many powerful
supporters, are result of measures which may be traced to his projection and tact. In his reply
to an address from the clergy, on his return from a recent visitation, published at length
in the last annual report of the parent Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, will be
found the clearest exposition of the existing state and future prospects of the church in Jamaica;
and a charge addressed by his lordship to the clergy of the Bahamas, on the subject of a difficult
and embarrassing question, for the adjustment of which the Bishop received the thanks of the
Queen's government and of the local Executive, is full of valuable information on the condition,
principles and progress of the colonial establishment. In closing the last session of the Bahamas
Legislature, Governor Gregory declared in his speech, with reference to this matter, that he
considered the arrival of the Bishop in the island, at that juncture, as a convincing proof
of the interposition of a special Providence in the conduct of human affairs.

In 1822, the Bishop was married to Eliza, the daughter of John Musson, Esq., and the sister
of a former friend at the University. He has had one son, now deceased, and has three daughters.

As a man of letters, Bishop Spencer is entitled to a very honorable position. As a scholar
and as a critic, he has evinced such abilities as, fitly devoted, would have secured fame;
as a poet and essayist, he has unusual grace and elegance; and a collection of the various
compositions with which he has relieved the monotony and arduous labors of his professional
and official career, would vindicate his title to be classed with those prelates who have been
most eminent in the literary world.

The following poems, from autographs of Bishop Spencer, we believe are first given to the public
in the International.

"HE GIVETH HIS BELOVED SLEEP."

    I tread the church-yard's path alone,
    Unseen to shed the gushing tear:
    I read on many a mould'ring stone
    Fond records of the good and dear.
    My soul is well-nigh faint with fear,
    Where doubting many went to weep;
    And yet what sweet repose is here--
      "He giveth His beloved sleep!"

    The world has but a feverish rest,
    To weary pilgrims sometimes given,
    When pleasure's cup has lost its zest,
    And glory's hard-earned crown is riven.
    Here, softer than the dews of even
    Fall peaceful on the slumbering deep,
    Asleep to earth, awake to heaven--
      "He giveth His beloved sleep."

    Yes, on the grave's hard pillows rise
    No cankering cares, no dreams of woe;
    On earth we close our aching eyes,
    And heavenward all our visions grow.
    The airs of Eden round us flow,
    And in their balm our slumbers steep.
    God calls His chosen home, and so
      "He giveth His beloved sleep."

    Ah! vainly could the human voice,
    In this dull world of sin and folly,
    Tell how the sainted dead rejoice
    In those high realms where joy is holy--
    Where no dim shade of melancholy
    Beclouds the rest which angels keep,
    Where, peace and bliss united wholly
      "He giveth His beloved sleep."

    If on that brow so fair, so young,
    Affliction trace an early furrow,
    If Hope's too dear, delusive tongue
    Has broke its promise of to-morrow,
    Seek not the world again, to borrow
    The deathful print its votaries reap.
    Man gives his loved ones pain and sorrow,
      God "giveth His beloved sleep."

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES WRITTEN ON WITNESSING A CONFIRMATION, IN BERMUDA, IN 1826.

    Veil'd in robes of snowy whiteness,
      Filled with love and sacred fear,
    Forms of beauty, eyes of brightness,
      At the altar's foot appear.

    There with hearts oppressed with feeling
      What their dying Saviour felt;
    At His throne of mercy kneeling
      Where their pious parents knelt,

    Many a youth, and many a maiden
      Meekly and devoutly bow,
    And from worldly cares unladen
      Ratify a Christian's vow.

    Hark! what voice subdued and holy
      In that deep and tender tone,
    Prays upon those suppliants lonely
      Christ's eternal benison!

    God! who call'st them to inherit
      Joys no mortal tongue can speak,
    Guide them with thy gracious Spirit
      Through the storms that round them break.

    When thou seest these children straying
      From the way thy word imparts,
    Then, thine anger yet delaying,
      Renovate their faltering hearts.

    If provoked by strong temptation
      From thy paths again they swerve,
    If in prideful elevation
      They forget the God they serve,

    Then by timely, mild correction,
      Lead them, wheresoe'er they roam,
    Fan the embers of affection
      For their Father and their Home.

       *       *       *       *       *

MIDNIGHT.

    Midnight is on the earth:
      Flowers that in darkness bloom,
    Their odorous life pour forth
          Beneath the gloom.
    O'er palace and o'er stall
      Her sable curtain spread,
    Mantles within its pall
          The living dead!

    Midnight is on the sea:
      A soft and still repose
    Steals o'er the untroubled lea
          That darkly glows.
    Hushed in their ocean caves
      The winds their sleep prolong,
    Or mourn along the waves
          In dreamlike song.

    Midnight is in the Heaven:
      The planets of the air
    To her as vassals given,
      Wander and worship there.
    No sound comes from her throne,
      Piled in those lofty skies,
    Calmly she broods upon
      Her own deep mysteries.

    Yet in her silence deep,
      There breathes a language fraught
    With spell to wake and keep
      The energies of thought;
    And on her awful brow
      Strange characters appear,
    The portraitures to show
      Of the advancing year.

    Night is a fearful book,
      And in her darkling skies
    Did Seers and Magi look,
      Searching earth's destinies.
    But oh! had I the power
      To ancient science given,
    I would not use this hour
          To rifle Heaven.

    The night is Memory's sphere,
      In light and shadow cast;
    In her dim disk appear
          The last--the past.
    The lov'd ones of our youth
      Hasten'd to life's last bourne;
    Dear to the heart's deep truth,
          Will they return?

    Ask of the phantoms pale
      That haunt the hollow sky,
    Ask of the fitful gale
      That mourns and passes by,
    Invoke the spirits' home,
      Unsearchable, unseen--
    Where do the wanderers roam?
      Are they as they have been?

    Silence is on the land,
      No voice comes from the sea,
    No spell can reach thy strand,
      Thou dim Eternity!
    Fled like the cloudy rack
      With morning's early breath,
    What night shall bring them back?
      The night that brings us death!

       *       *       *       *       *

STETE SUPER VIAS ANTIGUAS.

    My heart lies buried with the past,
      'Mid scenes where fleeting memory strays
    And time its darkening shadows cast
      O'er all the marks of by-gone days;
    I look in vain for ancient ways--
      The olden paths are worn and gone;
    No friend that trod them here delays,
      I pass benighted and alone.
    Yet in this mist of life and mind,
      Which ever dark and darker grows,
    There is one living lamp enshrin'd,
      Whose ray in deathless lustre glows.
    That star-like light my God bestows
      To break the deep sepulchral gloom;
    Its beams Eternity disclose,
      And show the garden round the tomb.

ENCOURAGEMENT OF LITERATURE.

In the concluding volume of the Life of Southey, just published by the Harpers, is a letter
from the poet in answer to one by Lord Brougham, on the subject of the encouragement of literature
by government. "Your first question," writes Southey, "is, whether Letters would gain by the
more avowed and active encouragement of the Government?

"There are literary works of national importance which can only be performed by co-operative
labor, and will never be undertaken by that spirit of trade which at present preponderates
in literature. The formation of an English Etymological Dictionary is one of those works; others
might be mentioned; and in this way literature might gain much by receiving national encouragement;
but Government would gain a great deal more by bestowing it. Revolutionary governments understand
this: I should be glad if I could believe that our legitimate one would learn it before it
is too late. I am addressing one who is a statesman as well as a man of letters, and who is
well aware that the time is come in which governments can no more stand without pens to support
them than without bayonets. They must soon know, if they do not already know it, that the volunteers
as well as the mercenaries of both professions, who are not already enlisted in this service,
will enlist themselves against it; and I am afraid they have a better hold upon the soldier
than upon the penman; because the former has, in the spirit of his profession and in the sense
of military honor, something which not unfrequently supplies the want of any higher principle;
and I know not that any substitute is to be found among the gentlemen of the press.

"But neediness, my Lord, makes men dangerous members of society, quite as often as affluence
makes them worthless ones. I am of opinion that many persons who become bad subjects because
they are necessitous, because 'the world is not their friend, nor the world's law,' might be
kept virtuous (or, at least, withheld from mischief) by being made happy, by early encouragement,
by holding out to them a reasonable hope of obtaining, in good time, an honorable station and
a competent income, as the reward of literary pursuits, when followed with ability and diligence,
and recommended by good conduct.

"My Lord, you are now on the Conservative side. Minor differences of opinion are infinitely
insignificant at this time, when in truth there are but two parties in this kingdom--the Revolutionists
and the Loyalists; those who would destroy the constitution, and those who would defend it,
I can have no predilections for the present administration; they have raised the devil who
is now raging through the land: but, in their present position, it is their business to lay
him if they can; and so far as their measures may be directed to that end, I heartily say,
God speed them! If schemes like yours for the encouragement of letters, have never entered
into their wishes, there can be no place for them at present in their intentions. Government
can have no leisure now for attending to any thing but its own and our preservation; and the
time seems not far distant when the cares of war and expenditure will come upon it once more
with their all-engrossing importance. But when better times shall arrive (whoever may live
to see them), it will be worthy the consideration of any government whether the institution
of an Academy, with salaries for its members (in the nature of literary or lay benefices),
might not be the means of retaining in its interests, as connected with their own, a certain
number of influential men of letters, who should hold those benefices, and a much greater number
of aspirants who would look to them in their turn. A yearly grant of ten thousand pounds would
endow ten such appointments of five hundred pounds each for the elder class, and twenty-five
of two hundred pounds each for younger men; the latter eligible, of course, and preferably,
but not necessarily, to be elected to the higher benefices, as those fell vacant, and as they
should have improved themselves.

