Henry Thorne had already heard of, and already seen, Mary Scatcherd; but hitherto she had not
fallen in the way of his wickedness. Now, however, when he heard that she was to be decently
married, the devil tempted him to tempt her. It boots not to tell all the tale. It came out
clearly enough when all was told, that he made her most distinct promises of marriage; he even
gave her such in writing; and having in this way obtained from her her company during some
of her little holidays--her Sundays or summer evenings--he seduced her. Scatcherd accused him
openly of having intoxicated her with drugs; and Thomas Thorne, who took up the case, ultimately
believed the charge. It became known in Barchester that she was with child, and that the seducer
was Henry Thorne.

Roger Scatcherd, when the news first reached him, filled himself with drink, and then swore
that he would kill them both. With manly wrath, however, he set forth, first against the man,
and that with manly weapons. He took nothing with him but his fists and a big stick as he went
in search of Henry Thorne.

The two brothers were then lodging together at a farm-house close abutting on the town. This
was not an eligible abode for a medical practitioner; but the young doctor had not been able
to settle himself eligibly since his father's death; and wishing to put what constraint he
could upon his brother, had so located himself. To this farm-house came Roger Scatcherd one
sultry summer evening, his anger gleaming from his bloodshot eyes, and his rage heightened
to madness by the rapid pace at which he had run from the city, and by the ardent spirits which
were fermenting within him.

At the very gate of the farm-yard, standing placidly with his cigar in his mouth, he encountered
Henry Thorne. He had thought of searching for him through the whole premises, of demanding
his victim with loud exclamations, and making his way to him through all obstacles. In lieu
of that, there stood the man before him.

"Well, Roger, what's in the wind?" said Henry Thorne.

They were the last words he ever spoke. He was answered by a blow from the blackthorn. A contest
ensued, which ended in Scatcherd keeping his word--at any rate, as regarded the worst offender.
How the fatal blow on the temple was struck was never exactly determined: one medical man said
it might have been done in a fight with a heavy-headed stick; another thought that a stone
had been used; a third suggested a stone-mason's hammer. It seemed, however, to be proved subsequently
that no hammer was taken out, and Scatcherd himself persisted in declaring that he had taken
in his hand no weapon but the stick. Scatcherd, however, was drunk; and even though he intended
to tell the truth, may have been mistaken. There were, however, the facts that Thorne was dead;
that Scatcherd had sworn to kill him about an hour previously; and that he had without delay
accomplished his threat. He was arrested and tried for murder; all the distressing circumstances
of the case came out on the trial: he was found guilty of manslaughter, and sentenced to be
imprisoned for six months. Our readers will probably think that the punishment was too severe.

Thomas Thorne and the farmer were on the spot soon after Henry Thorne had fallen. The brother
was at first furious for vengeance against his brother's murderer; but, as the facts came out,
as he learnt what had been the provocation given, what had been the feelings of Scatcherd when
he left the city, determined to punish him who had ruined his sister, his heart was changed.
Those were trying days for him. It behoved him to do what in him lay to cover his brother's
memory from the obloquy which it deserved; it behoved him also to save, or to assist to save,
from undue punishment the unfortunate man who had shed his brother's blood; and it behoved
him also, at least so he thought, to look after that poor fallen one whose misfortunes were
less merited than those either of his brother or of hers.

And he was not the man to get through these things lightly, or with as much ease as he perhaps
might conscientiously have done. He would pay for the defence of the prisoner; he would pay
for the defence of his brother's memory; and he would pay for the poor girl's comforts. He
would do this, and he would allow no one to help him. He stood alone in the world, and insisted
on so standing. Old Mr Thorne of Ullathorne offered again to open his arms to him; but he had
conceived a foolish idea that his cousin's severity had driven his brother on to his bad career,
and he would consequently accept no kindness from Ullathorne. Miss Thorne, the old squire's
daughter--a cousin considerably older than himself, to whom he had at one time been much attached--sent
him money; and he returned it to her under a blank cover. He had still enough for those unhappy
purposes which he had in hand. As to what might happen afterwards, he was then mainly indifferent.

The affair made much noise in the county, and was inquired into closely by many of the county
magistrates; by none more closely than by John Newbold Gresham, who was then alive. Mr Gresham
was greatly taken with the energy and justice shown by Dr Thorne on the occasion; and when
the trial was over, he invited him to Greshamsbury. The visit ended in the doctor establishing
himself in that village.

We must return for a moment to Mary Scatcherd. She was saved from the necessity of encountering
her brother's wrath, for that brother was under arrest for murder before he could get at her.
Her immediate lot, however, was a cruel one. Deep as was her cause for anger against the man
who had so inhumanly used her, still it was natural that she should turn to him with love rather
than with aversion. To whom else could she in such plight look for love? When, therefore, she
heard that he was slain, her heart sank within her; she turned her face to the wall, and laid
herself down to die: to die a double death, for herself and the fatherless babe that was now
quick within her.

But, in fact, life had still much to offer, both to her and to her child. For her it was still
destined that she should, in a distant land, be the worthy wife of a good husband, and the
happy mother of many children. For that embryo one it was destined--but that may not be so
quickly told: to describe her destiny this volume has yet to be written.

Even in those bitterest days God tempered the wind to the shorn lamb. Dr Thorne was by her
bedside soon after the bloody tidings had reached her, and did for her more than either her
lover or her brother could have done. When the baby was born, Scatcherd was still in prison,
and had still three months' more confinement to undergo. The story of her great wrongs and
cruel usage was much talked of, and men said that one who had been so injured should be regarded
as having in nowise sinned at all.

One man, at any rate, so thought. At twilight, one evening, Thorne was surprised by a visit
from a demure Barchester hardware dealer, whom he did not remember ever to have addressed before.
This was the former lover of poor Mary Scatcherd. He had a proposal to make, and it was this:--if
Mary would consent to leave the country at once, to leave it without notice from her brother,
or talk or éclat on the matter, he would sell all that he had, marry her, and emigrate. There
was but one condition; she must leave her baby behind her. The hardware-man could find it in
his heart to be generous, to be generous and true to his love; but he could not be generous
enough to father the seducer's child.

"I could never abide it, sir, if I took it," said he; "and she,--why in course she would always
love it the best."

In praising his generosity, who can mingle any censure for such manifest prudence? He would
still make her the wife of his bosom, defiled in the eyes of the world as she had been; but
she must be to him the mother of his own children, not the mother of another's child.

And now again our doctor had a hard task to win through. He saw at once that it was his duty
to use his utmost authority to induce the poor girl to accept such an offer. She liked the
man; and here was opened to her a course which would have been most desirable, even before
her misfortune. But it is hard to persuade a mother to part with her first babe; harder, perhaps,
when the babe had been so fathered and so born than when the world has shone brightly on its
earliest hours. She at first refused stoutly: she sent a thousand loves, a thousand thanks,
profusest acknowledgements for his generosity to the man who showed her that he loved her so
well; but Nature, she said, would not let her leave her child.

"And what will you do for her here, Mary?" said the doctor. Poor Mary replied to him with a
deluge of tears.

"She is my niece," said the doctor, taking up the tiny infant in his huge hands; "she is already
the nearest thing, the only thing that I have in this world. I am her uncle, Mary. If you will
go with this man I will be father to her and mother to her. Of what bread I eat, she shall
eat; of what cup I drink, she shall drink. See, Mary, here is the Bible;" and he covered the
book with his hand. "Leave her to me, and by this word she shall be my child."

The mother consented at last; left her baby with the doctor, married, and went to America.
All this was consummated before Roger Scatcherd was liberated from jail. Some conditions the
doctor made. The first was, that Scatcherd should not know his sister's child was thus disposed
of. Dr Thorne, in undertaking to bring up the baby, did not choose to encounter any tie with
persons who might hereafter claim to be the girl's relations on the other side. Relations she
would undoubtedly have had none had she been left to live or die as a workhouse bastard; but
should the doctor succeed in life, should he ultimately be able to make this girl the darling
of his own house, and then the darling of some other house, should she live and win the heart
of some man whom the doctor might delight to call his friend and nephew; then relations might
spring up whose ties would not be advantageous.

No man plumed himself on good blood more than Dr Thorne; no man had greater pride in his genealogical
tree, and his hundred and thirty clearly proved descents from MacAdam; no man had a stronger
theory as to the advantage held by men who have grandfathers over those who have none, or have
none worth talking about. Let it not be thought that our doctor was a perfect character. No,
indeed; most far from perfect. He had within him an inner, stubborn, self-admiring pride, which
made him believe himself to be better and higher than those around him, and this from some
unknown cause which he could hardly explain to himself. He had a pride in being a poor man
of a high family; he had a pride in repudiating the very family of which he was proud; and
he had a special pride in keeping his pride silently to himself. His father had been a Thorne,
and his mother a Thorold. There was no better blood to be had in England. It was in the possession
of such properties as these that he condescended to rejoice; this man, with a man's heart,
a man's courage, and a man's humanity! Other doctors round the county had ditch-water in their
veins; he could boast of a pure ichor, to which that of the great Omnium family was but a muddy
puddle. It was thus that he loved to excel his brother practitioners, he who might have indulged
in the pride of excelling them both in talent and in energy! We speak now of his early days;
but even in his maturer life, the man, though mellowed, was the same.

This was the man who now promised to take to his bosom as his own child a poor bastard whose
father was already dead, and whose mother's family was such as the Scatcherds! It was necessary
that the child's history should be known to none. Except to the mother's brother it was an
object of interest to no one. The mother had for some short time been talked of; but now the
nine-days' wonder was a wonder no longer. She went off to her far-away home; her husband's
generosity was duly chronicled in the papers, and the babe was left untalked of and unknown.

It was easy to explain to Scatcherd that the child had not lived. There was a parting interview
between the brother and sister in the jail, during which, with real tears and unaffected sorrow,
the mother thus accounted for the offspring of her shame. Then she started, fortunate in her
coming fortunes; and the doctor took with him his charge to the new country in which they were
both to live. There he found for her a fitting home till she should be old enough to sit at
his table and live in his bachelor house; and no one but old Mr Gresham knew who she was, or
whence she had come.

Then Roger Scatcherd, having completed his six months' confinement, came out of prison.

Roger Scatcherd, though his hands were now red with blood, was to be pitied. A short time before
the days of Henry Thorne's death he had married a young wife in his own class of life, and
had made many resolves that henceforward his conduct should be such as might become a married
man, and might not disgrace the respectable brother-in-law he was about to have given him.
Such was his condition when he first heard of his sister's plight. As has been said, he filled
himself with drink and started off on the scent of blood.

During his prison days his wife had to support herself as she might. The decent articles of
furniture which they had put together were sold; she gave up their little house, and, bowed
down by misery, she also was brought near to death. When he was liberated he at once got work;
but those who have watched the lives of such people know how hard it is for them to recover
lost ground. She became a mother immediately after his liberation, and when her child was born
they were in direst want; for Scatcherd was again drinking, and his resolves were blown to
the wind.

The doctor was then living at Greshamsbury. He had gone over there before the day on which
he undertook the charge of poor Mary's baby, and soon found himself settled as the Greshamsbury
doctor. This occurred very soon after the birth of the young heir. His predecessor in this
career had "bettered" himself, or endeavoured to do so, by seeking the practice of some large
town, and Lady Arabella, at a very critical time, was absolutely left with no other advice
than that of a stranger, picked up, as she declared to Lady de Courcy, somewhere about Barchester
jail, or Barchester court-house, she did not know which.

Of course Lady Arabella could not suckle the young heir herself. Ladies Arabella never can.
They are gifted with the powers of being mothers, but not nursing-mothers. Nature gives them
bosoms for show, but not for use. So Lady Arabella had a wet-nurse. At the end of six months
the new doctor found Master Frank was not doing quite so well as he should do; and after a
little trouble it was discovered that the very excellent young woman who had been sent express
from Courcy Castle to Greshamsbury--a supply being kept up on the lord's demesne for the family
use--was fond of brandy. She was at once sent back to the castle, of course; and, as Lady de
Courcy was too much in dudgeon to send another, Dr Thorne was allowed to procure one.