Dr. Richardson, with zealous attachment to his pursuits, passed seven summers and five winters
surrounded by the objects he has described with such fidelity. He is, therefore, not a mere
book naturalist, but he has studied the habits and zoological details of the living animals;
Mr. Swainson having assisted the Doctor in the systematic arrangement and production of the
plates. Their descriptions include all the birds hitherto found over an immense expanse of
country of the 49th parallel of latitude, and east of the Rocky Mountains, which lie much nearer
to the Pacific Coast than to the eastern shore of America: many of these birds being, for the
first time, made known to ornithologists. We have selected two of the most singular in their
conformation: one from the Owls, which are numerous and beautiful; and the other from the Grouse,
of which ten fine species are described.[2]

    [2] Flocks of Ptarmigans, when pursued by the jar-falcon,
    endeavour to save themselves by plunging instantly into the
    loose snow, and making their way beneath it to a considerable
    distance.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARCTIC, OR WHITE-HORNED OWL,

Strix (Bubo) Arctica, SWAINSON.

This very beautiful owl appears to be rare, only one specimen having been seen by the members
of the Expedition. It was observed flying at mid-day in the immediate vicinity of Carlton House,
and was brought down with an arrow by an Indian boy. Dr. Richardson could obtain no information
respecting its habits.

From Mr. Swainson's minute description we learn that the colour of the bill and claws is blueish
black. The face is white, and a band of blackish-brown and white crosses the throat. The egrets
or ear feathers are tipped with blackish-brown, the inner webs being white varied with wood-brown.
The whole of the back is marked with undulated lines or fine bars of dark umber-brown, alternating
with white: on the greater wing coverts the white is replaced by pale wood-brown. The primary
and secondary feathers are wood-brown, margined inwards with white. They are crossed by umber-brown
bars on both webs, the intervening spaces being finely speckled with the same. On the tertiary
feathers, the wood-brown is mostly replaced by white. The tail-feathers are white, deeply tinged
inwards by wood-brown, and crossed by bars of umber-brown; the tips are white. The chin is
white. The throat is crossed by the band already mentioned, behind which there is a large space
of pure snow white, that is bounded on the breast by blotches of liver-brown situated on the
tips of the feathers. The belly and long plumage of the flanks are white, crossed by narrow
bars of dark brown. The under tail coverts, thighs, and feet are pure white. The linings of
the wings are pure white with the exception of a brown spot on the tips of the great interior
coverts. The bill is strong, curved from the base, moderately compressed towards the tip, with
a very obtuse ridge. The facial disk is small, and incomplete above the orbit. The egrets are
more than two inches long, each composed of six or seven feathers, and situate behind the upper
end of the black band bounding the face. The folded wings fall about three inches and a half
short of the tail, which is rounded, the outer feathers being an inch shorter than the central
ones. The plumage of the sides of the belly is long, and hangs down over the thighs. The thigh
feathers are very downy, but are not long. The tarsi are rather long, and the toes are moderately
long; they are clothed to the roots of the nails by a close coat of hairy feathers. The claws
are strong, sharp, and very much curved.

The length of the bird from the tip of the bill to the end of the tail is 21 inches 6 lines;
and the length of the longest quill feather is 12 inches six lines.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COCK OF THE PLAINS,

Tetrao,[3] (Centrocercus,) Urophasianus,

SWAINSON.

This bird, which was first mentioned by Lewis and Clark,[4] has since become well known to
the fur traders that frequent the banks of the Colombia. Several specimens have been sent to
England by the agents of the Hudson's Bay Company. Mr. David Douglas has published the following
account of the manners of the species, the only one hitherto given.

    [3] Or Grouse.

    [4] The adventurous travellers to the Source of the Missouri.

"The flight of these birds is slow, unsteady, and affords but little amusement to the sportsman.
From the disproportionately small, convex, thin-quilled, wing,--so thin, that a vacant space,
half as broad as a quill appears between each,--the flight may be said to be a sort of fluttering
more than any thing else: the bird giving two or three claps of the wings in quick succession,
at the same time hurriedly rising; then shooting or floating, swinging from side to side, gradually
falling, and thus producing a clapping, whirring sound. When started, the voice is 'cuck, cuck,
cuck,' like the common pheasant. They pair in March and April. The love-song is a confined,
grating, but not offensively disagreeable, tone,--something that we can imitate, but have a
difficulty in expressing--'Hurr-hurr--hurr-r-r-r hoo,' ending in a deep hollow tone, not unlike
the sound produced by blowing into a large reed. Nest on the ground, under the shade of Purshia
and Artemisia, or near streams, among Phalaris arundinacea, carefully constructed of dry grass,
and slender twigs. Eggs from thirteen to seventeen, about the size of those of a common fowl,
of a wood-brown colour, with irregular chocolate blotches on the thick end. The young leave
the nest a few hours after they are hatched. In the summer and autumn months these birds are
seen in small troops, and in winter and spring in flocks of several hundreds. Plentiful through
the barren arid plains of the river Colombia; also in the interior of North California. They
do not exist on the banks of the river Missouri; nor have they been seen in any place east
of the Rocky Mountains."

The general colour of the upper plumage is light hair-brown, mottled and variegated with dark
umber-brown and yellowish-white. The under plumage is white and unspotted on the breast and
part of the body; but dark umber-brown, approaching to black, on the lower hall of the body,
and part of the flanks; the latter towards the vent are marked as on the upper plumage. The
under tail coverts are black, broadly tipped with white. The feathers of the thighs and tarsi
are light hair-brown, mottled with darker lines. The throat and region of the head is varied
with blackish on a white ground. The shafts of all the feathers on the breast are black, rigid,
and look like hairs; but those of the scale-like feathers of the sides are white and thicker.
The bill and toes are blackish. The bill is thick and strong: the ridge is advanced to a remarkable
extent towards the front, and divides the thickset feathers which cover the nostrils by a convex
ridge of three quarters of an inch long. This is a very peculiar and important character, since
it plainly indicates the analogy of this form to Ramphastos, Buceros,[5] and numerous other
rasorial types. On each side the breast, the present specimen exhibits two prominent naked
protuberances, as in the female bust, perfectly destitute of hair or feathers. On each side
of these protuberances, and higher up on the neck, is a tuft of feathers, having their shafts
considerably elongated and naked, gently curved, and tipped with a pencil of a few black radii;
they are placed much behind the naked protuberances, and do not appear intended to cover them
when not inflated. On the sides of the neck, and across the breast, below the protuberances,
the feathers are particularly short, rigid, and acute, laying over each other with the same
compactness and regularity as the scales of a fish, excepting that their extremities are not
rounded, but acutely pointed. Lower down the breast these feathers, however, begin to assume
more of the ordinary shape; but the shafts still remain very thick and rigid, while each is
terminated by a slender, naked filament, hornlike, shining, and somewhat flattened towards
the end, where there are a few obsolete radii. The wings in proportion to the size of the bird,
are very short; the lesser quills ending in a point. The tail is rather lengthened and considerably
rounded, each feather lanceolate, and gradually attenuated to a fine point. The tarsi are somewhat
elevated, thickly clothed with feathers to the base of the toes, and over the membrane which
connects them. The length of this bird Mr. Swainson thinks to have been 25 inches. The female
bird, it should be added, has neither the scale-like feathers nor projecting shafts of the male.

    [5] See the Rhinoceros Bird, page 312. The Mirror, No. 547.

The CLAW is that of the PILEATED WOODPECKER, (Picus Dryotomus) Pileatus, SWAINSON, which has
much less power than the claw of the typical Woodpecker; the anterior toe (i.e. middle toe,)
being longer and stronger than the posterior--a structure the very reverse of that which characterizes
the typical species.

LEGS AND FEET of the ROCKY MOUNTAIN SPOTTED GROUSE, (Tetrao Franklinii, DOUGLAS,) which are
thickly covered with long and hair-like feathers. The bird inhabits the valleys of the Rocky
Mountains from the sources of the Missouri to those of the Mackenzie, and Mr. Douglas informed
Dr. Richardson that it is sparingly seen on the elevated platforms which skirt the snowy peaks
of Mount Hood, Mount St. Helens, and Mount Baker. He adds, "It runs over the shattered rocks,
and among the brushwood with amazing speed, and only uses its wings as a last effort to escape."

The birds of North America include about 320 species. They are divided into migratory and resident;
though comparatively few in the fur countries are strictly entitled to be called resident.
The raven and Canadian and short-billed jays were the only species recognised as being equally
numerous at their breeding-places in winter and summer. Many of the species which raise two
or more broods within the United States rear only one in the fur countries, the shortness of
the summer not admitting of their doing more. We have mentioned the number and beauty of the
hawks and owls. The white-headed eagle inhabits the fur countries as well as the United States.
The melody of the song-birds is described to be exquisite. The verdant lawns and cultivated
glades of Europe fail in producing that exhilaration and joyous buoyancy of mind which travellers
have experienced in treading the Arctic wilds of America, when their snowy covering had just
been replaced by an infant but vigorous vegetation. The duck family are, however, the birds
of the greatest importance, as they furnish, in certain seasons of the year, in many extensive
districts, almost the only article of food that can be procured. The period of their emigration
southwards again, in large flocks, at the close of summer, is another season of plenty bountifully
granted to the natives, and enabling them to encounter the rigour and privations of a northern
winter.

