The Bible is an occult book, and a remarkable one. About all creeds and faiths this side of
Pagandom go to it for their authority. Read in the light of occult teachings, it becomes something
more than the old battle ground of controversy for warring religions. Occultism alone furnishes
the key to this ancient treasury of wisdom. But to turn now to another point, it may be well
to call the attention of the readers of The Woman's Bible to a few quotations from MacGregor
Mathers' "Kabbalah Unveiled," which has been pronounced by competent authorities the work of
a master hand. This work is a translation of Knorr Von Rosenroth's "Kabbalah Denudata."

The Kabbalah--the Hebrew esoteric doctrines--is a system of teachings with which only the very
learned attempt to wrestle. It is claimed to have been handed down by oral tradition from angelic
sources, through Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, the Seventy Elders, to David and to Solomon. No
attempt was made to commit this sacred knowledge to writing, till, in the early centuries of
the Christian era (authorities differ widely as to the date) the pupils of Rabbi Simeon ben
Joachi put his teachings into writing; and this in later ages became known as the "Zohar,"
or "Book of Splendor." Around the name of this Rabbi Simeon ben Joachi, as one scholarly writer
puts it, "cluster the mystery and the poetry of the religion of the Kabbalah as a gift of the
Deity to mankind." The Zohar, which is only a part of the Kabbalah, is the great store-house
of the esoteric teaching of the ancient Hebrews.

Returning to the quotations referred to above, MacGregor Mathers in his preface says: "I wish
particularly to direct the reader's attention to the stress laid by the Kabbalah on the feminine
aspects of the Deity, and to the shameful way in which any allusion to these has been suppressed
in the ordinary translations of the Bible, also to the Kabbalistical equality of male and female."

Referring to the Sephiroth (the ten Kabbalistical attributes of God), Mr. Mathers says:

"Among these Sephiroth, jointly and severally, we find the development of the persons and the
attributes of God. Of these, some are male and some are female. Now, for some reason or other,
best known to themselves, the translators of the Bible have carefully crowded out of existence
and smothered up every reference to the fact that the Deity is both masculine and feminine.
They have translated a feminine plural by a masculine singular in the case of the word Elohim.
They have, however, left an inadvertent admission of their knowledge that it was plural in
Genesis iv., 26: 'And Elohim said: Let US make man.'

"Again (v., 27), how could Adam be made in the image of the Elohim, male and female, unless
the Elohim were male and female also? The word Elohim is a plural formed from the feminine
singular ALH, Eloh, by adding IM to the word. But inasmuch as IM is usually the termination
of the masculine plural, and is here added to a feminine noun, it gives to the word Elohim
the sense of a female potency united to a masculine idea, and thereby capable of producing
an offspring. Now we hear much of the Father and the Son, but we hear nothing of the Mother
in the ordinary religions of the day. But in the Kabbalah we find that the Ancient of Days
conforms himself simultaneously into the Father and the Mother, and thus begets the Son. Now
this Mother is Elohim."

The writer then goes on to show that the Holy Spirit, usually represented as masculine, is
in fact feminine. The first Sephira contained the other nine, and produced them in succession.
The second is Chokmah (Wisdom), and is the active and evident Father to whom the Mother is
united. The third is a feminine passive potency called Binah (Understanding), and is co-equal
with Chokmah. Chokmah is powerless till the number three forms the triangle.

"Thus this Sephira completes and makes evident the supernal Trinity. It is also called AMA,
Mother, the great productive Mother, who is eternally conjoined with the Father for the maintenance
of the universe in order. Therefore is she the most evident form in whom we can know the Father,
and therefore is she worthy of all honor. She is the supernal Mother, co-equal with Chokmah,
and the great feminine form of God, the Elohim, in whose image man and woman were created,
according to the teaching of the Kabbalah, equal before God. Woman is equal with man, not inferior
to him, as it has been the persistent endeavor of so-called Christians to make her. Aima is
the woman described in the Apocalypse (ch. 12)."

"This third Sephira is also sometimes called the Great Sea. To her are attributed the Divine
names, Alaim, Elohim, and Iahveh Alhim; and the angelic order, Arhlim, the Thrones. She is
the supernal Mother as distinguished from Malkuth, the inferior Mother, Bride and Queen. .
. . In each of the three trinities or triads of the Sephiroth is a dual of opposite sexes,
and a uniting intelligence which is the result. In this, the masculine and feminine potencies
are regarded as the two scales of the balance, and the uniting Sephira as the beam which joins
them."

In chapter viii. we read: "Chokmah is the Father, and Binah is the Mother, and therein are
Chokmah (Wisdom) and Binah (Understanding), counterbalanced together in most perfect equality
of Male and Female. And therefore are all things established in the equality of Male and Female;
if it were not so, how could they subsist? . . . In their conformations are They found to be
the perfections of all things-- Father and Mother, Son and Daughter. These things have not
been revealed save unto the Holy Superiors who have entered therein and departed therefrom,
and have known the paths of the Most Holy God, so that they have not erred in them, either
on the right hand or on the left."

In a note in regard to Chokmah and Binah the author says: "Chokmah is the second and Binah
is the third of the Sephiroth. This section is a sufficient condemnation of all those who wish
to make out that woman is inferior to man."

The Kabbalah also speaks of the separation of the sexes as the cause of evil, or as the author
puts it in a note: "Where there is unbalanced force, there is the origin of evil." Further
on it is written: "And therefore is Aima (the Mother) known to be the consummation of all things;
and She is signified to be the beginning and the end. . . . And hence that which is not both
Male and Female together is called half a body. Now, no blessing can rest upon a mutilated
and defective being, but only upon a perfect place and upon a perfect being, and not at all
in an incomplete being. And a semi-complete being cannot live forever, neither can it receive
blessing forever."

The following is the author's comment upon the above: "This section is another all-sufficient
proof of the teachings maintained throughout the Kabbalah, namely, that man and woman are from
the creation co-equal and co-existent, perfectly equal, one with the other. This fact the translators
of the Bible have been at great pains to conceal by carefully suppressing every reference to
the feminine portion of the Deity, and by constantly translating feminine nouns by masculine.
And this is the work of so-called religious men!"

A learned Jewish Rabbi, with whom the writer is acquainted, says: "Those who write on the Bible
must be very careful when they come to speak of the position of woman to make a clear distinction
between the Old and the New Testaments. In the Old Testament, except in the second chapter
of Genesis, woman occupies a true and a dignified position in society and in the family. For
example, take the position of Sarah, of the Prophetess Miriam, the sister of Moses, and Deborah
the Prophetess. They all exemplify the true position of woman in the Old Testament. While Paul,
the Apostle of the Gentiles, and the chief writer in the New Testament, condemned woman to
silence in the Church and to strict obedience to her husband, making her thereby inferior to
the man, the Old Testament gave free scope to the development of the Holy Spirit in woman.
To intensify this teaching upon the position of woman, we find even the voice of the Deity
telling Abraham: 'Whatever Sarah tells thee, thou shalt hearken unto her voice,' showing that
woman in her own home was the guiding power." In regard to another point this Rabbi says: "The
learned Jewish Rabbis of modern times do not take the rib story literally. And this may be
said of many of the olden times."

The Kabbalah and its learned expositors may be said to be "the throbbing heart" of the Jewish
religion, as was graphically said of the mystic teachings of another occult fraternity. And
in view of the Kabbalah's antiquity, and the fact that it is the fountain head of the body
of the Old Testament teachings, these quotations as to the real Kabbalistic teachings in regard
to woman, or to the feminine aspects of the Deity, are of first-class importance in such a
book as "The Woman's Bible." In Kabbalistic teachings "there is one Trinity which comprises
all the Sephiroth, and it consists of the crown, the king and the queen. . . . It is the Trinity
which created the world, or, in Kabbalistic language, the universe was born from the union
of the crowned king and queen."

The rib story is veiled in the mystic language of symbolism. According to occult teachings,
there was a time before man was differentiated into sexes--that is, when he was androgynous.
Then the time came, millions of years ago, when the differentiation into sexes took place.
And to this the rib story refers. There has been much ignorance and confusion in regard to
the real nature of woman, indicating that she is possessed of a mystic nature and a power which
will gradually be developed and better understood as the world becomes more enlightened. Woman
has been branded as the author of evil in the world; and at the same time she has been exalted
to the position of mother of the Saviour of the world. These two positions are as conflicting
as the general ideas which have prevailed in regard to woman--the great enigma of the world.

Theological odium has laid its hand heavily upon her. "This odium," as a Rev. D. D. once said
to the writer, "is a thing with more horns, more thorns, more quills and more snarls than almost
any other sort of thing you have ever heard of. It has kindled as many fires of martyrdom;
it has slipnoosed as many ropes for the necks of well-meaning men; it has built as many racks
for the dislocation of human bones; it has forged as many thumbscrews; it has built as many
dungeons; it has ostracised as many scholars and philosophers; it has set itself against light
and pushed as hard to make the earth revolve the other way on its axis, as any other force
of mischief of whatever name or kind."

And that is the fearful thing with which woman has had to contend. When she is free from it
we may be assured that the dawn of a new day is not far off. And among the indications pointing
that way is the fact that the Bible itself has been "under treatment" for some time. What is
known as the "Higher Criticism" has done much to clear away the clouds of superstition which
have enveloped it.

One of the latest works on this line is "The Polychrome Bible"--the word meaning the different
colors in which the texts, the notes, the dates, the translations, etc., are printed for the
sake of simplifying matters. Prof. Paul Haupt, of Johns Hopkins University, is at the head
of this great work, ably assisted by a large corps of the best Biblical scholars in the world.
It is not to be a revision of the accepted version, but a new translation in modern English.
The translation is not to be literal except in the highest sense of the word, viz., "to render
the sense of the original as faithfully as possible." There are to be explanatory notes, historical
and archaelogical illustrations of the text, paraphrases of difficult passages, etc. In short,
everything possible is to be done to simplify and to make plain this ancient book. The contributors
have instructions not to hesitate to state what they consider to be the truth, but with as
little offence to the general reader as possible. This work has been pronounced the greatest
literary undertaking of the century--a work which will prepare the way for the coming generation
to give an entirely new consideration to the religious problem. It was begun in 1890, and will
probably not be completed before 1900.

Another important work, small in actual size but big with significance, has just been issued
in England under the title of "The Bible and the Child." It is not, as its name might imply,
a book for children, but it is for the purpose of "showing the right way of presenting the
Bible to the young in the light of the Higher Criticism." Its eight contributors are headed
by Canon F. W. Farrar, of England, and includes a number of noted English divines. An English
writer outside of the orthodox pale says: "It is one of the most extraordinary books published
in the English language. It is small; but it is just the turning-scale to the side of common
sense in matters religious. The Church has at last taken a step in the right direction. We
cannot expect it to set off at a gallop; but it is fairly ambling along on its comfortable
palfrey."

The advance is all along the line; and we need not fear any retrograde movement to the past.
Canon Farrar says that the manner in which the Higher Criticism has progressed "is exactly
analogous to the way in which the truths of astronomy and of geology have triumphed over universal
opposition. They were once anathematized as 'Infidel;' they are now accepted as axiomatic."
When an official of the Church of England of the high standing of Canon Farrar comes out so
boldly in the interest of free thought and free criticism on lines hitherto held to be too
sacred for human reason to cross, it is one of the "signs of the times," and a most hopeful
one of the future.

And now that we are coming to understand the Bible better than to worship it as an idol, it
will gradually be lifted from the shadows and the superstitions of an age when, as a fetich,
it was exalted above reason, and placed where a spiritually enlightened people can see it in
its true light-a book in which many a bright jewel has been buried under some rubbish, perhaps,
as well as under many symbolisms and mystic language--a book which is not above the application
of reason and of common sense. And with these new lights on the Bible, it is gratifying to
know at the same time that the stately Hebrew Kabbalah, hoary with antiquity, and the fountain
source of the Old Testament, places woman on a perfect equality in the Godhead. For better
authority than that one can hardly ask.

We are nearing the close of a remarkable century, the last half of which, and especially the
last quarter, has been crowded with discoveries, some of them startling in their approximation
to the inner, or occult world--a world in which woman has potent sway. The close of this century
has long been pointed to by scholars, by writers and by Prophets, within the Church and out
of it, as the close of the old dispensation and the opening of the new one. And in view of
the rapid steps which we are taking in these latter years, we can almost feel the breath of
the new cycle fan our cheeks as we watch the deepening hues of the breaking dawn.

F. E. B.

THE NEW TESTAMENT.

"Great is Truth, and mighty above all things."--1 Esdras, iv., 41.

Does the New Testament bring promises of new dignity and of larger liberties for woman? When
thinking women make any criticisms on their degraded position in the Bible, Christians point
to her exaltation in the New Testament, as if, under their religion, woman really does occupy
a higher position than under the Jewish dispensation. While there are grand types of women
presented under both religions, there is no difference in the general estimate of the sex.
In fact, her inferior position is more clearly and emphatically set forth by the Apostles than
by the Prophets and the Patriarchs. There are no such specific directions for woman's subordination
in the Pentateuch as in the Epistles.

We are told that the whole sex was highly honored in Mary being the mother of Jesus. Surely
a wise and virtuous son is more indebted to his mother than she is to him, and is honored only
by reflecting her superior characteristics. Why the founders of the Christian religion did
not improvise an earthly Father as well as an earthly Mother does not clearly appear. The questionable
position of Joseph is unsatisfactory. As Mary belonged to the Jewish aristocracy, she should
have had a husband of the same rank. If a Heavenly Father was necessary, why not a Heavenly
Mother? If an earthly Mother was admirable, why not not {sic} an earthly Father? The Jewish
idea that Jesus was born according to natural law is more rational than is the Christian record
of the immaculate conception by the Holy Ghost, the third person of the Trinity. These Biblical
mysteries and inconsistencies are a great strain on the credulity of the ordinary mind.

E. C. S.

Jesus was the great leading Radical of his age. Everything that he was and said and did alienated
and angered the Conservatives, those that represented and stood for the established order of
what they believed to be the fixed and final revelation of God. Is it any wonder that they
procured his death? They had no power to put him to death themselves, and so they stirred the
suspicions of the Roman authorities.

We owe the conquest of Christianity to two things. First, to Paul. Christianity never would
have been anything but a little Jewish sect if it had not been for Paul. And the other thing
is--what? The conquest over death. It was the abounding belief of the disciples that Jesus
was alive, their leader still, though in the invisible, which made them laugh in the face of
death, which made them fearless in the presence of the lions in the arena, which made them
seek for the honor and glory of martyrdom, and which gave them such conquest over all fear,
all sorrow, all toil, as can come only to those who believe that this life is merely a training
school, that death is nothing but a doorway and that it leads out into the eternal glories
and grandeurs beyond.

I think that the doctrine of the Virgin birth as something higher, sweeter, nobler than ordinary
motherhood, is a slue on all the natural motherhood of the world. I believe that millions of
children have been as immaculately conceived, as purely born, as was the Nazarene. Why not?
Out of this doctrine, and that which is akin to it, have sprung all the monasteries and the
nunneries of the world, which have disgraced and distorted and demoralized manhood and womanhood
for a thousand years. I place beside the false, monkish, unnatural claim of the Immaculate
Conception my mother, who was as holy in her motherhood as was Mary herself.

Another suggestion. This thought of Jesus as the second person of an inconceivable trinity,
a being neither of heaven nor earth, but between the two; a being having two natures and one
will; a being who was ignorant as a man, and who suffered as a man, while he knew everything
as God and could not suffer as God--this conception is part of a scheme of the universe which
represents humanity as ruined and lost and hopeless, God as unjust, and man as looking only
to a fearful judgment in the ages that are to be. I believe that thousands of people have lived
since the time of Jesus as good, as tender, as loving, as true, as faithful, as he. There is
no more mystery in the one case than in the other, for it is all mystery. Old Father Taylor,
the famous Methodist Bethel preacher in Boston, was a Perfectionist, and when he was asked
if he thought anybody had since lived who was as good as Jesus, he said: "Yes; millions of
them." This is Methodist authority.

What made Jesus the power he was of his time? In the first place, there was an inexplicable
charm about his personality which drew all the common people to him, as iron filings are drawn
by a magnet. He loved the people, who instinctively felt it, and loved him. Then there was
his intellectual power of speech. Most of the sayings of Jesus are not original in the sense
that nobody else ever uttered any similar truths before. Confucius, six thousand years before
Jesus, gave utterance to the Golden Rule. And then there was the pity, the sympathy, the tenderness
of the man. And then he had trust in God-- trust in the simple Fatherhood of God, that never
could be shaken. Jesus taught us, as no one else has ever done it, the humanness of God and
the divineness of man, so that, standing there eighteen hundred years ago, he has naturally
and infallibly attracted the eyes, the thought, the love, the reverence of the world.

When it is dark in the morning, and before the sun rises, there are high peaks that catch the
far-off rays and begin to glow, while the rest of the world still lies in shadow. So there
are mountainous men, not supernatural, but as natural as the mountains and the sun-- mountainous
men who catch the light before our common eyes on the plains and in the valleys can see it,
who see and proclaim from their lofty heights far-off visions of truth and beauty that we as
yet cannot discern.

ANON.

THE BOOK OF MATTHEW.

Saint Matthew is supposed to be distinguished from the other Apostles by the frequency of his
references to the Old Testament. He records more particulars of Jesus than the others do, far
more of his birth, his sayings and his miracles.

There has been much difference of opinion among writers of both sacred and profane history
as to the paternity of Jesus, and whether he was a real or an ideal character. If, as the Scriptures
claim, he descended from heaven, begotten by the Holy Ghost, the incarnation of God himself,
then there was nothing remarkable in his career, nor miraculous in the seeming wonders which
he performed, being the soul and the centre of all the forces of the universe of matter and
of mind. If he was an ideal character, like the gifted hero of some novel or tragedy, his great
deeds and his wise sayings the result of the imagination of some skilful artist, then we may
admire the sketch as a beautiful picture. But if Jesus was a man who was born, lived and died
as do other men, a worthy example for imitation, he is deserving of our love and reverence,
and by showing us the possibilities of human nature he is a constant inspiration, our hope
and salvation; for the path, however rough, in which one man has walked, others may follow.
As a God with infinite power he could have been no example to us; but with human limitations
we may emulate his virtues and walk in his footsteps.

Some writers think that his mother was a wise, great and beautiful Jewish maiden, and his father
a learned rabbi, who devoted much time and thought to his son's education. At a period when
learning was confined to the few, it was a matter of surprise that as a mere boy he could read
and write, and discuss the vital questions of the hour with doctors in the sacred temples.
His great physical beauty, the wisdom of his replies to the puzzling questions of the Pharisees
and the Sadducces, his sympathy with the poor and the needy, his ambition for all that is best
in human development, and his indifference to worldly aggrandizement, altogether made him a
marked man in his day and generation. For these reasons he was hated, reviled, persecuted,
like the long line of martyrs who followed his teachings. He commands far more love and reverence
as a true man with only human possibilities, than as a God, superior to all human frailties
and temptations.

What were years of persecution, the solitude on the mountain, the agonies on the cross, with
the power of a God to sustain him? But unaided and alone to triumph over all human weakness,
trials and temptation, was victory not only for Jesus but for every human being made in his image.

Matthew ii.

3 When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.

4 And when he had gathered all the chief priests together, he demanded of them where Christ
should be born.

9 And they departed; and lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it
came and stood over where the young child was.

12 And being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into
their own country another way.

These sages were supposed to be men of great learning belonging to a sect called Magians, who
came from Arabia. There was a general feeling that the king of the Jews was yet to be born,
and that they were soon to see the long expected and promised Messiah. Herod was greatly troubled
by the tidings that a child had been born under remarkable circumstances. The star spoken of
was supposed to be a luminous meteor the wise men had seen in their own country before they
set out on their journey for Bethlehem, and which now guided them to the house where the young
child was. Notwithstanding the common surroundings, the wise men recognizing something more
than human in the child, fell down and worshiped him and presented unto him the most precious
gifts which their country yielded. Some have supposed that the frankincense and the myrrh were
intended as an acknowledgment of his deity, as the gold was of his royalty.

To defeat the subtle malice of Herod, who was determined to take the child's life, Joseph was
warned in a dream to flee into Egypt with the child and his mother. The wise men did not return
to Herod as commanded, but went at once to their own country.

Matthew ix.

18 Behold, there came a certain ruler, saying, My daughter is even now dead; but come and lay
thy hand upon her, and she shall live.

19 And Jesus arose and followed him.

2 And behold, a woman, which was diseased twelve years, came behind him, and touched the hem
of his garment:

21 For she said within herself, If I may but touch his garment, I shall be whole. And they
laughed him to scorn,

25 But when the people were put forth, he went in, and took her by the hand, and the maid arose.

Matthew xiv.

3 For Herod had laid hold on John, and put him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's
wife.

4 For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her.

8 And she being before instructed of her met, Give me here John Baptist's head in a charger.

Josephus says that Herodias was niece both to her former husband, Philip, and to Herod, with
whom she at this time lived. Herod had divorced his own wife in order to take her; and her
husband Philip was still living, as well as the daughter Salome, whom he had by her. No connection
could be more contrary to the law of God than this. John, therefore, being a prophet and no
courtier, plainly reproved Herod, and declared that it was not lawful for him to retain Herodias.
This greatly offended Herod and Herodias, and they cast John into prison, Herodias waited her
opportunity to wreak her malice on him, counting John's reproof an insult to her character
as well as an interference with her ambition.

At length when Herod celebrated his birthday, entertaining his nobles with great magnificence,
the daughter of Herodias danced before them all, with such exquisite grace as to delight the
company, whereupon Herod promised her whatever she desired, though equal in value to half his
kingdom. Salome consulted her mother, who urged her to demand the head of John the Baptist.
By the influence of Herodias, Herod, contrary to his own conscience, was induced to put John
to death, for he feared him as a righteous man.

It must have been a great trial to the daughter, who might have asked so many beautiful gifts
and rare indulgences, to yield all to her wicked mother's revenge. But these deeds were speedily
avenged. It is said that Salome had her head cut off by the ice breaking as she passed over
it. Herod was shortly after engaged in a disastrous war on account of Herodias, and was expelled
from his territories; and both died in exile, hated by everybody and hating one another.

L. C. S.

In regard to the charge against Herodias, which is current among theological scandal-mongers,
there is not a moderately intelligent jury of Christendom (if composed half of men and half
of women) which, after examining all the available evidence, would not render a verdict in
her favor of "Not Guilty." The statement that She "paid the price of her own daughter's debasement
and disgrace for the head of John the Baptist," is an assertion born wholly of the ecclesiastical,
distorted imagination. Not even a hint, much less an iota of proof, to warrant such an assertion,
is found anywhere in history--sacred or profane. While some anonymous writer of the early Christian
centuries did put in circulation the charge that John the Baptist was put to death at the instigation
of Herodias (without implicating her daughter's character, however), Josephus, on the contrary,
explicitly declares that his death was wholly a political matter, with which the names of Herodias
and her daughter are not even connected by rumor. Says Josephus: "When others came in crowds
about him (John the Baptist), for they were greatly moved by hearing his words, Herod, who
feared lest the great influence John had over the people might put it into his power and inclination
to raise a rebellion (for they seemed ready to do anything he should advise), thought it best,
by putting him to death, to prevent any mischief he might cause. . . . Accordingly he was sent
a prisoner, out of Herod's suspicious temper, to Macherus, the castle I before mentioned, and
was there put to death."

Now, the jury must remember that Josephus was born in Jerusalem about 38 A. D., that he was
an educated man and in a position to know the facts in this case, owing both to his prominent
position among the Jews and to his study of contemporaneous history. But that, on the other
hand, the anonymous writers who bring Herodias' name into the transaction, are not traceable
further back than the fourth century of our era, and that even they do not bring any charge
against her character as a mother.

E. B. D.

Matthew xv.

21 Then Jesus departed into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon.

23 But he answered her not a word. And his disciples besought him to send her away.

26 But he said, It is not meet to take the children's food, and to cast it to dogs.

Peter had a house in Capernaum; and his wife's mother lived with them; and Jesus lodged with
them when in that city. It is hoped that his presence brought out the best traits of the mother-in-law,
so as to make her agreeable to Peter. As soon as Jesus rebuked the fever, she was able without
delay to rise and to wait on Jesus and his disciples. These displays of the power of Christ
in performing miracles, according to the text, are varied, in almost every conceivable way
of beneficence; but he wrought no miracles of vengeance, even the destruction of the swine
was doubtless intended in mercy and conducive to much good--so say the commentators. He not
only healed the sick and cast out devils, but he made the blind to see and the dumb to speak.

The woman of Canaan proved herself quite equal in argument with Jesus; and though by her persistency
she tired the patience of the disciples, she made her points with Jesus with remarkable clearness.
His patience with women was a sore trial to the disciples, who were always disposed to nip
their appeals in the bud. It was very ungracious in Jesus to speak of the Jews as dogs, saying,
"It is not meet to take the children's food, and to cast it to dogs." Her reply, "Yet the dogs
eat of the crumbs which fall from the master's table," was bright and appropriate. Jesus appreciated
her tact and her perseverance, and granted her request; and her daughter, the text says, was
healed.

We might doubt the truth of all these miracles did We not see so many wonderful things in our
own day which we would have pronounced impossible years ago. The fact of human power developing
in so many remarkable ways proves that Jesus's gift of performing miracles is attainable by
those who, like him, live pure lives, and whose blood flows in the higher arches of the brain.
If one man, at any period of the world's history, performed miracles, others equally gifted
may do the same.

Matthew xx.

20 Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons, worshiping him, and desiring
a certain thing of him.

21 And he said unto her, What wilt thou?

Zebedee, the father of James and of John, was dead; and he was not so constant a follower of
Christ as his wife; so she is mentioned as the mother of Zebedee's children, which saying has
passed into a conundrum, "Who was the mother of Zebedee's children?" Scott in his commentaries
gives her name as Salome. Whatever her name, she had great ambition for her sons, and asked
that they might have the chief places of honor and authority in his kingdom. Her son James
was the first of the Apostles who suffered martyrdom. John survived all the rest and is not
supposed to have died a violent death.

A mother's ambition to lift her sons over her own head in education and position, planning
extraordinary responsibilities for ordinary men, has proved a misfortune in many cases. Many
a young man who would be a success as a carpenter would be a failure as the governor of a State.
Mothers are quite apt to overestimate the genius of their children and push them into niches
which they cannot fill.

Matthew xxii.

Jesus reminded the Sadducees that marriage was intended only for the present world, to replenish
the earth and to repair the ravages which death continually makes among its inhabitants; but
as in the future state there was to be no death, so no marriage. There the body even would
be made spiritual; and all the employments and the pleasures pure and angelic. The marriage
relation seems to have been a tangled problem in all ages. Scientists tell us that both the
masculine and feminine elements were united in one person in the beginning, and will probably
be reunited again for eternity.

E. C. S.

CHAPTER II.

Matthew xxv.

2 And five of them were wise, and five were foolish.

7 Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.

In this chapter we have the duty of self-development impressively and repeatedly urged in the
form of parables, addressed alike to man and to woman. The sin of neglecting and of burying
one's talents, capacities and powers, and the penalties which such a course involve, are here
strikingly portrayed.

