Can any of your readers, acquainted with the neighbourhood of London, afford me information
regarding this place, which was probably one of amusement and promenade much used by the Jews,
many of the wealthier of whom, at that time and long afterwards, resided in Goodman's Fields?

Y. S.

Cardinal Allen's Admonition to the Nobility.--Sharon Turner (Eliz., book ii. chap. xxx. vol.
iv. p. 348.) mentions that there is a copy of Cardinal Allen's Admonition to the Nobility,
&c., in the Jesuit's College at Stoneyhurst, and but a few others in England.

I shall be obliged to any of your correspondents who can inform me where one is to be found.
There is not one either in the Bodleian or the British Museum.

JAMES BLISS.

"Clarum et venerabile nomen."--Can any of your correspondents inform me in what author the
following lines are to be found? They are quoted by Burke in his speech on American taxation.

W. L.

Whipping by Women.--In the accounts of the constable of this parish for the year 1644, there
are the following items:

   "Paid to two men for watching Ellen
  Shaw, she beinge accused for felonie     0 3 0
   "Paid to a woman for whippinge y^e
  said Ellen Shaw                          0 0 4
   "Paid for beare for her after she was
  whipped                                  0 0 3."

Was it the usual custom for women sentenced to whipping to be consigned to the tender mercies
of one of their own sex?

J. EASTWOOD.

Ecclesfield.

Lærig (Vol. i., p. 292.).--Have we not a relic of this word in the vulgar leary, used of a
tough customer, one not easily taken in?

J. W. H.

MS. History of Winchester School.--

    "In the year 1715, proposals were published for an exact account of the
    History and Antiquities of this College of St. Mary; and large
    collections are made for that end, now dormant in a private
    hand."--Rawlinson's English Topographer, p 63., London, 1720.

Can any of your readers tell me where this invaluable MS. (if existing) may be found? and also
what became of the late Rev. Peter Hall's collections in manuscript?

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.

Benedicite.--When a priest saluted or was asked for his blessing,, he said "Benedicite," Bless
ye,--Domino, or, in worse Latin, nomen Dei. understood. Can any one say why Benedicat or Benedicimini
was not used, as the use of Benedicite was intended {464} to convey or invoke a blessing, not
an exhortation to bless.

PETER CORONA.

The Church History Society.--As one who feels greatly interested in the scheme for the establishment
of THE CHURCH HISTORY SOCIETY, given in your number for the 2nd November last, and which you
properly describe as "a proposal calculated to advance one of the most important branches of
historical learning," will you permit me to inquire, through the medium of "NOTES AND QUERIES,"
whether DR. MAITLAND's scheme has met with so much encouragement as to justify the expectation,
and I will add the hope, that it may ever be fully carried out?

LAICUS.

Pope Ganganelli.--There was a Life of Pope Clement XIV. (Ganganelli) published in London in
1785. It was a distinct work from that by Caraccioli. Can any of your readers inform me of
the author's name; or is there any one who has seen the book, or can tell where a copy may
be found?

CEPHAS.

Sir George Downing.--I should be glad to obtain any information respecting Sir George Downing,
of East Halley, Cambridgeshire, and Gamlingay Park, or his family. He was ambassador from Cromwell
and Charles II. to the States-General of Holland, secretary to the Treasury, and the statesman
who caused the "Appropriation Act" to be passed, the 17th of Charles II. The family is of most
ancient origin in Devonshire, and I have heard that a portrait of him is possessed by some
person in that county.

ALPHA.

A. A.

Abridge.

Now I should be glad if any one could offer a conjecture as to the Bishop's meaning in this
last sentence? I have shown it to several people, but no one has been able to think of this
"peculiar term."

R.

The Duke of Wharton's Poetical Works.--Ritson prepared an edition of this nobleman's poetical
works for the press. It contained nearly as much again as the printed edition of 1732. What
has become of the MS.?

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Titus Oates.--Can any of your correspondents refer me to an autograph of Titus Oates?

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Erasmus' Colloquies--Apuleius' Golden Ass, Translations of.--Will any of your readers be kind
enough to enlighten a provincial ignoramus by answering the following Queries:--

1. Which is the best and most complete English translation of Erasmus' Colloquies?

2. Is there an English translation of Apuleius' Golden Ass?

3. Is the French translation of the latter work considered a good one?

G. P. I.

The Molten Sea.--In 1835, Captain J. B. Jervis, of the Bombay Engineers, published at Calcutta
an essay, entitled Records of Ancient Science, in which he endeavours to reconcile the discrepancy
between the 1 Kings, vii. 23. 26. and the 2 Chron. iv. 2. 5. by proving that a vessel of oblate
spheroidal form--of 30 cubits in the periphery, and 10 cubits in the major axis--would (according
to the acknowledged relation of the bath to the cubit) hold exactly 2,000 baths liquid measure,
and 3,000 baths when filled and heaped up conically with wheat (as specified in Ezekiel, xlv. 11.).

I do not possess any means of criticising this explanation of the difficulty, and having searched
in various modern commentaries for a notice of it without success, I venture to submit it in
your columns to the attention of others.

TYRO-ETYMOLOGICUS.

"Sedem Animæ", &c.--Will any of your correspondents inform me where the following quotation
is taken from:--

 "Sedem animæ in extremis digitis habent."

It will be found in Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy, folio edition (7th), p. 55., and in the
8vo. edition of 1837, vol. iv. p. 80. Burton cites it as from Sallust, but the verbal index
of that author has been consulted in vain for it.

W. S.

Richmond, Surrey.

Old St. Pancras Church.--Old St. Pancras has always been a noted burial-place for Roman Catholics
that reside in or near London; and it has been assigned as a reason for that being their mausoleum
and cemetery, that prayers and mass are said daily in a church dedicated to the same saint,
in the south of France, for the repose of the souls of the faithful whose bodies are deposited
in the church of St. Pancras near London (England), where crosses and Requiescat in Pace, or
the initial of those words, R.I.P., are found on the sepulchral monuments. It is said prayer
and mass {465} are said at St. Peter at Rome, also for the same purpose.

Can any of your readers inform me where that church is in the south of France; and when such
prayers and masses were first said?

It is also understood that this church was the last whose bell tolled in England for mass,
and in which any rites of the Roman Catholic religion were celebrated after the Reformation.

S. S. N. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

HOLME MSS.--THE CRADOCKS.

(Vol. ii., p. 429.).

In answer to the Query of MR. ELLACOMBE, "I should like to know whether the MSS. of Randle
Holme, of Chester, 1670, which afterwards were penes Dr. Latham, are still accessible?"

1. The MSS. alluded to are those of four successive antiquaries of that name, of whom an account
will be found in Ormerod's Hist. Chesh., vol. ii., under "Tranmere."

2. The person intended was not Dr. Latham, but Mr. William Latham, of Eltham, afterwards of
Quenby Hall, Leicestershire, brother of Dr. Latham, of Romsey, the naturalist.

