I can endure a melancholy man, but not a melancholy child; the former, in whatever slough he
may sink, can raise his eyes either to the kingdom of reason or of hope; but the little child
is entirely absorbed and weighed down by one black poison-drop of the present. Think of a child
led to the scaffold, think of Cupid in a Dutch coffin; or watch a butterfly, after its four
wings have been torn off, creeping like a worm, and you will feel what I mean. But wherefore?
The first has been already given; the child, like the beast, only knows purest, though shortest
sorrow; one which has no past and no future; one such as the sick man receives from without,
the dreamer from himself into his asthenic brain; finally, one with the consciousness not of
guilt, but of innocence. Certainly, all the sorrows of children are but shortest nights, as
their joys are but hottest days; and indeed both so much so, that in the latter, often clouded
and starless time of life, the matured man only longingly remembers his old childhood's pleasures,
while he seems altogether to have forgotten his childhood's grief. This weak remembrance is
strangely contrasted with the opposing one in dreams and fevers in this respect, that in the
two last it is always the cruel sorrows of childhood which return; the dream this mock-sun
of childhood--and the fever, its distorting glass--both draw forth from dark corners the fears
of defenceless childhood, which press and cut with iron fangs into the prostrate soul. The
fair scenes of dreams mostly play on an after-stage, whereas the frightful ones choose for
theirs the cradle and the nursery. Moreover, in fever, the ice-hands of the fear of ghosts,
the striking one of the teachers and parents, and every claw with which fate has pressed the
young heart, stretch themselves out to catch the wandering man. Parents, consider then, that
every childhood's Rupert--the name given in Germany to the fictitious being employed to frighten
children into obedience--even though it has lain chained for tens of years, yet breaks loose
and gains mastery over the man so soon as it finds him on a sick-bed. The first fright is more
dangerous the sooner it happens: as the man grows older, he is less and less easily frightened;
the little cradle or bed-canopy of the child is more easily quite darkened than the starry
heaven of the man.--Jean Paul Richter.

A REJECTED LOVER.

      You 'never loved me,' Ada!--Those slow words
      Dropped softly from your gentle woman's tongue,
      Out of your true and tender woman's heart,
      Dropped--piercing into mine like very swords,
      The sharper for their brightness! Yet no wrong
      Lies to your charge; nor cruelty, nor art;
    Even while you spoke, I saw the ready tear-drop start.

      You 'never loved me?'--No, you never knew--
      You, with youth's dews yet glittering on your soul--
      What 'tis to love. Slow, drop by drop, to pour
      Our life's whole essence, perfumed through and through
      With all the best we have, or can control,
      For the libation; cast it down before
    Your feet--then lift the goblet, dry for evermore!

      I shall not die, as foolish lovers do:
      A man's heart beats beneath this breast of mine;
      The breast where--Curse on that fiend's whispering,
      'It might have been!'--Ada, I will be true
      Unto myself--the self that worshipped thine.
      May all life's pain, like those few tears that spring
    For me--glance off as rain-drops from my white dove's wing!

      May you live long, some good man's bosom-flower,
      And gather children round your matron knees!
      Then, when all this is past, and you and I
      Remember each our youth but as an hour
      Of joy--or torture; one, serene, at ease,
      May meet the other's grave yet steadfast eye,
    Thinking, 'He loved me well!'--clasp hands, and so pass by.

THE TEARS OF OYSTERS.

Glancing round this anatomical workshop (the oyster), we find, amongst other things, some preparations
shewing the nature of pearls. Examine them, and we find that there are dark and dingy pearls,
just as there are handsome and ugly men; the dark pearl being found on the dark shell of the
fish, the white brilliant one upon the smooth inside shell. Going further in the search, we
find that the smooth, glittering lining, upon which the fish moves, is known as the nacre,
and that it is produced by a portion of the animal called the mantle; and, for explanation's
sake, we may add that gourmands practically know the mantle as the beard of the oyster. When
living in its glossy house, should any foreign substance find its way through the shell to
disturb the smoothness so essential to its ease, the fish coats the offending substance with
nacre, and a pearl is thus formed. The pearl is, in fact, a little globe of the smooth, glossy
substance yielded by the oyster's beard; yielded ordinarily to smooth the narrow home to which
his nature binds him, but yielded in round drops, real pearly tears, if he is hurt. When a
beauty glides among a throng of her admirers, her hair clustering with pearls, she little thinks
that her ornaments are products of pain and diseased action, endured by the most unpoetical
of shell-fish.--Leisure Hours.

'ROBESPIERRE.'

In our recent notice of Robespierre, it was mentioned that, at the period of his capture in
the Hôtel de Ville, he was shot in the jaw by a pistol fired by one of the gendarmes. Various
correspondents point to the discrepancy between this account and that given by Thiers, and
some other authorities, who represent that Robespierre fired the pistol himself, in the attempt
to commit self-destruction. In our account of the affair, we have preferred holding to Larmartine
(History of the Girondists), not only in consequence of his being the latest and most graphic
authority on the subject, but because his statement seems to be verified by the appearance
of the half-signed document which it was our fortune to see in Paris in 1849.

The following is Lamartine's statement:--'The door soon yielded to the blows given by the soldiers
with the but-end of their muskets, amid the cries of "Down with the tyrant!" "Which is he?"
inquired the soldiers; but Léonard Bourdon durst not meet the look of his fallen enemy. Standing
a little behind the men, and hidden by the body of a gendarme, named Méda; with his right hand
he seized the arm of the gendarme who held a pistol, and pointing with his left hand to the
person to be aimed at, he directed the muzzle of the weapon towards Robespierre, exclaiming:
"That is the man." The man fired, and the head of Robespierre dropped on the table, deluging
with blood the proclamation he had not finished signing.' Next morning, adds this authority,
Léonard Bourdon 'presented the gendarme who had fired at Robespierre to the notice of the Convention.'
Further: on Robespierre being searched while he lay on the table, a brace of loaded pistols
were found in his pocket. 'These pistols, shut up in their cases still loaded, abundantly testify
that Robespierre did not shoot himself.' Accepting these as the true particulars of the incident,
Robespierre cannot properly be charged with an attempt at suicide.

In the article referred to, the name Barras was accidentally substituted for Henriot, in connection
with the insurrectionary movement for rescuing Robespierre. Barras led the troops of the Convention.

A correspondent asks us to state what was the actual number of persons slaughtered by the guillotine,
and otherwise, during the progress of the Revolution. The question cannot be satisfactorily
answered. Alison (vol. iv. p. 289) presents a list, which shews the number to have been 1,027,106;
but this enumeration does not comprehend the massacres at Versailles, the prisons of Paris,
and some other places. A million and a half would probably be a safe calculation. One thing
is certain, that from the 2d of September 1792, to the 25th of October 1795, a space of little
more than three years, 18,613 persons perished by the guillotine. Strangely enough, the chief
destruction of life was among the humbler classes of society, those who mainly promoted the
revolution; and still more strange, the greater number of victims were murdered by the verdicts
of juries--a striking example of that general subserviency which has since become the most
significant defect in the French character.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just Published, Price 6d. Paper Cover,

CHAMBERS'S POCKET MISCELLANY: forming a LITERARY COMPANION for the RAILWAY, the FIRESIDE, or
the BUSH.

VOLUME IV.

To be continued in Monthly Volumes.