We were living in Milwaukee, having recently moved there from York State, where I was born.
My father, a bookkeeper of some expertness, not securing a position in our newly adopted city
as soon as he had expected, became disheartened, and, to while away the time that hung so heavily,
took to drinking beer with some newly acquired German friends. The result was that our funds
were exhausted much sooner than they should have been, and mother took it upon herself to turn
bread-winner for the family by doing some plain sewing.

A small allotment of this money she gave to me one day on my return from school, and sent me
to Mr. Blodget, the grocer, to purchase some supplies. After giving my order to one of the
clerks I immediately turned my attention to renewing my acquaintance with Tabby, the store cat.

While I was thus engaged, I heard my name repeated by a stranger who was talking with Mr. Blodget,
and erelong the man sauntered over, spoke to me, and after some preliminary remarks asked if
I was Carter Brassfield. He was dark, had a sweeping mustache, and wore eye-glasses. Upon being
assured that I was Carter Brassfield, he took from his pocket a gold ring, and, turning it
around carefully in the light, read the inscription on its inner side.

"Is your mother's name Alice?" he asked.

I told him that it was.

"And your father's name Carter?"

"Yes, sir," said I.

Then he showed the ring to me and asked if I had seen it before.

I at once recognized the ring as my mother's. Since I could remember she had worn it, until
recently. Of late she had grown so much thinner that the ring would no longer stay on her finger,
and she was accustomed, therefore, to keep the circlet in a small drawer of her dresser, secure
in an old purse with some heirlooms of coins; and I was greatly surprised that it should be
in the possession of this stranger. I told him that it was my mother's ring, and asked him
how he came by it.

"Your father put it up in a little game the other day," said he, "and it fell into my possession."
He dropped the ring into his purse, which he then closed with a snap. "I have been trying for
several days to see your father and give him a chance at the ring before I turned it in to
the pawnbroker's. If your mother has any feeling in the matter, tell her she can get the ring
for ten dollars," he added as he turned away.

I did not know what to do. I was so ashamed and hurt to think that my father, whom I loved
and in whom I had such implicit confidence, should have gambled away my mother's ring, the
very ring--I was old enough to appreciate--he had given her in pledging to her his love. My
eyes filled with tears, and as I stood, hesitating, Mr. Blodget came forward, admonishing me
not to forget my parcels. He evidently observed my tears, although I turned my face the other
way, for shame of crying. At any rate, he put his hand on my shoulder and said very kindly:--

"It's pretty tough, Carter, my boy, isn't it?"

He referred, I thought, to my father, for father was uppermost in my thoughts. Then, lowering
his voice, he said:--

"But I will help you out, son, I will help you out."

I forgot all about hiding my tears, and faced about, attracted by his kindness.

"I will redeem the ring, and keep it for you until you can get the money. What do you say?
You can rest easy then, knowing that it is safe, and you can take your time. What do you say?"

With some awkwardness I acquiesced to his plan. Then he called the stranger, and, leading the
way back to his desk, paid to him the ten dollars, requiring him to sign a paper, though I
did not understand why. He then placed the ring carefully in his safe.

"There, Carter," said he, rubbing his hands together, "it is safe now, and we need not worry."

I held out my hand to him, then without a word took my parcels and started on a run for home.

That evening father was more restless than usual. He repeatedly lamented his long-enforced
idleness. After retiring that night, I lay awake for a long time evolving in my mind plans
whereby I might earn ten dollars to redeem the ring. Finally, with my boyish heart full of
hope and adventure, I fell asleep in the wee hours of morning.

After breakfast I took my books, as usual, but, instead of going to school, I turned my steps
toward a box factory where I knew a boy of about my own age to be working. I confided to him
as much of my story as I thought advisable, and he took me to the superintendent's office and
introduced me. I was put to work, at five dollars a week, with the privilege of stopping at
four each day. Every afternoon I brought my school-books home and studied as usual till bed-time,
and took them with me again in the morning.

During the two weeks I was employed at the factory neither father nor mother suspected that
I had not been to school each day. In fact, I studied so assiduously at night that I kept up
with my classes. But my mother observed that I grew pale and thin.

At the end of two weeks, when I told the manager I wanted to stop work, he seemed somewhat
disappointed. He paid me two crisp five-dollar notes, and I went very proudly to Mr. Blodget
with the first ten dollars I had ever earned, and received that gentleman's hearty praise,
and my mother's ring.

That evening father was out as usual, and I gave the ring to mother, telling her all about
it, and what I had done. She kissed me, and, holding me close in her arms for a long time,
cried, caressing my hair with her hand, and told me that I was her dear, good boy. Then we
had a long talk about father, and agreed to lay nothing to him, at present, about the ring.

The next evening, when I returned from school, father met me at the hall door, and asked if
I had been to school. I saw that he had been drinking, and was not in a very amiable mood.

"I met Clarence Stevenson just now," he said, "and he inquired about you. He thought you were
sick, and said you had not been to school for two weeks, unless you had gone today." I stood
for a moment without answering. "What do you say to that?" he demanded.

"Clarence told the truth, father," I replied.

"He did, eh? What do you mean by running away from school in this manner?" He grew very angry,
catching me by the shoulder, gave me such a jerk that my books, which I had under my arm, went
flying in all directions. "Why have you not been to school?" he said thickly.

"I was working, but I did not intend to deceive you father."

"Working! Working! Where have you been working?"

"At Mr. Hazleton's box factory."

"At a what factory?"

"Box factory."

"How much did you earn?" he growled, watching me closely to see if I told the truth.

"Five dollars a week," I said timidly, feeling all the time that he was exacting from me a
confession that I wished, on his account, to keep secret.

"Five dollars a week! Where is the money? Show me the money!" he persisted incredulously.

"I cannot, father. I do not have it."

I was greatly embarrassed and frightened at his conduct.

"Where is it?" he growled.

"I--I--spent it," I said, not thinking what else to say.

A groan escaped through his shut teeth as he reeled across the hall and took down a short rawhide
whip that had been mine to play with. Although he had never punished me severely, I was now
frightened at his anger.

"Don't whip me, father!" I pleaded, as he came staggering toward me with the whip. "Don't whip
me, please!"

I started to make a clean breast of the whole matter, but the cruel lash cut my sentence short.
I had on no coat, only my waist, and I am sure a boy never received such a whipping as I did.

I did not cry at first. My heart was filled only with pity for my father. Something lay so
heavy in my breast that it seemed to fill up my throat and choke me. I shut my teeth tightly
together, and tried to endure the hurt, but the biting lash cut deeper and deeper until I could
stand it no longer. Then my spirit broke, and I begged him to stop. This seemed only to anger
him the more, if such a thing could be. I cried for mercy, and called for mother, who was out
at one of the neighbor's. Had she been at home, I am sure she would have interceded for me.
But he kept on and on, his face as white as the wall. I could feel something wet running down
my back, and my face was slippery with blood, when I put up my hand to protect it. I thought
I should die; everything began to go round and round. The strokes did not hurt any longer;
I could not feel them now. The hall suddenly grew dark, and I sank upon the floor. Then I suppose
he stopped.

When I returned to consciousness, I was lying on the couch in the dining-room, with a wet cloth
about my forehead, and mother was kneeling by me, fanning me and crying. I put my arms about
her neck, and begged her not to cry, but my head ached so dreadfully that I could not keep
back my own tears. I asked where father was, and she said he went down-town when she came.
He did not return at supper-time, nor did we see him again until the following morning.

I could eat no supper that night before going to bed, and mother came and stayed with me. I
am sure she did not sleep, for as often as I dropped off from sheer exhaustion, I was wakened
by her sobbing. Then I, too, would cry. I tried to be brave, but my wounds hurt me so, and
my head ached. I seemed to be thinking all the time of father. My poor father! I felt sorry
for him, and kept wondering where he was. All through the night it seemed to me that I could
see him drinking and drinking, and betting and betting. My back hurt dreadfully, and mother
put some ointment and soft cotton on it.

It was late in the morning when I awoke, and heard mother and father talking down-stairs. With
great difficulty, I climbed out of bed and dressed myself. When I went down, mother had a fire
in the dining-room stove, and father was sitting, or rather lying, with both arms stretched
out upon the table, his face buried between them. By him on a plate were some slices of toast
that mother had prepared, and a cup of coffee, which had lost its steam without being touched.

I went over by the stove and stood looking at father. I had remained there but a moment, my
heart full of sympathy for him, and wondering if he were ill, when he raised his head and looked
at me. I had never before seen him look so haggard and pale. As his eyes rested on me, the
tears started down my cheeks.

"Carter, my child," he said hoarsely, "I have done you a great wrong. Can you forgive me?"

In an instant my arms were about his neck--I felt no stiffness nor soreness now. He folded
me to his breast, and cried, as I did. After a long time he spoke again:--

"If I had only known--your mother has just told me. It was the beer, Carter, the beer. I will
never touch the stuff again, never," he said faintly. Then he stretched out his arms upon the
table, and bowed his head upon them. I stood awkwardly by, the tears streaming down my cheeks,
but they were tears of joy.

Mother, who was standing in the kitchen doorway with her apron to her eyes, came and put her
arm about him, and said something, very gently, which I did not understand. Then she kissed
me several times. I shall never forget the happiness of that hour.

For a long time after that father would not go downtown in the evening unless I could go with
him. He lived to a good old age, and was for many years head bookkeeper for Mr. Blodget. He
kept his promise always.

Mother is still living, and still wears the ring.--Alva H. Sawins, M.D., in the Union Signal.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Lad's Answer

  Our little lad came in one day
    With dusty shoes and weary feet
  His playtime had been hard and long
    Out in the summer's noontide heat.
  "I'm glad I'm home," he cried, and hung
    His torn straw hat up in the hall,
  While in the corner by the door
    He put away his bat and ball.

  "I wonder why," his aunty said,
    "This little lad always comes here,
  When there are many other homes
    As nice as this, and quite as near."
  He stood a moment deep in thought,
    Then, with the love-light in his eye,
  He pointed where his mother sat,
    And said: "Here she lives; that is why '"

  With beaming face the mother heard,
    Her mother-heart was very glad.
  A true, sweet answer he had given,
    That thoughtful, loving little lad.
  And well I know that hosts of lads
    Are just as loving, true, and dear,
  That they would answer as did he,
    "Tis home, for mother's living here."

           ARTHUR V. FOX.

THE BRIDAL WINE-CUP

"Pledge with wine! Pledge with wine!" cried young and thoughtless Harvey Wood. "Pledge with
wine!" ran through the bridal party.

The beautiful bride grew pale; the decisive hour had come. She pressed her white hands together,
and the leaves of the bridal wreath trembled on her brow. Her breath came quicker, and her
heart beat wilder.

"Yes, Marian, lay aside your scruples for this once," said the judge in a low tone, going toward
his daughter; "the company expects it. Do not so seriously infringe upon the rules of etiquette.
In your own home do as you please; but in mine, for this once, please me."

Pouring a brimming cup, they held it, with tempting smiles, toward Marian. She was very pale,
though composed; and her hand shook not, as, smiling back, she gracefully accepted the crystal
tempter, and raised it to her lips. But scarcely had she done so when every hand was arrested
by her piercing exclamation of "O, how terrible!"

"What is it?" cried one and all, thronging together, for she had slowly carried the glass at
arm's length and was fixedly regarding it.

"Wait," she answered, while a light, which seemed inspired, shone from her dark eyes--"wait,
and I will tell you. I see," she added slowly, pointing one finger at the sparkling ruby liquid,
"a sight that beggars all description; and yet, listen! I will paint it for you, if I can.
It is a lovely spot. Tall mountains, crowned with verdure, rise in awful sublimity around;
a river runs through, and bright flowers grow to the water's edge. But there a group of Indians
gather. They flit to and fro, with something like sorrow upon their dark brows. In their midst
lies a manly form, but his cheek, how deathly! His eyes are wild with the fitful fire of fever.
One friend stands before him--nay, I should say, kneels; for see, he is pillowing that poor
head upon his breast.

"O, the high, holy-looking brow! Why should death mark it, and he so young? Look, how he throws
back the damp curls! See him clasp his hands! Hear his thrilling shrieks for life! Mark how
he clutches at the form of his companion, imploring to be saved! O, hear him call piteously
his father's name! See him twine his fingers together as he shrieks for his sister--his only
sister, the twin of his soul, weeping for him in his distant native land!

"See!" she exclaimed, while the bridal party shrank back, the untasted wine trembling in their
faltering grasp, and the judge fell overpowered upon his seat--"see! his arms are lifted to
heaven--he prays--how wildly!--for mercy. Hot fever rushes through his veins. He moves not;
his eyes are set in their sockets; dim are their piercing glances. In vain his friend whispers
the name of father and sister--death is there. Death--and no soft hand, no gentle voice to
soothe him. His head sinks back; one convulsive shudder--he is dead!"

A groan ran through the assembly. So vivid was description, so unearthly her look, so inspired
her manner, that what she described seemed actually to have taken place then and there. They
noticed, also, that the bridegroom hid his face in his hands, and was weeping.

"Dead!" she repeated again, her lips quivering faster and faster, and her voice more broken.
"And there they scoop him a grave; and there, without a shroud, they lay him down in that damp,
reeking earth, the only son of a proud father, the only idolized brother of a fond sister.
There he lies, my father's son, my own twin brother, a victim to this deadly poison. Father,"
she exclaimed, turning suddenly, while the tears rained down her beautiful cheeks, "father,
shall I drink it now?"

The form of the old judge was convulsed with agony. He raised not his head, but in a smothered
voice he faltered:--

"No, no, my child; no!"

She lifted the glittering goblet, and let it suddenly fall to the floor, where it was dashed
in a thousand pieces. Many a tearful eye watched her movement, and instantaneously every wine-glass
was transferred to the marble table on which it had been prepared. Then, as she looked at the
fragments of crystal, she turned to the company, saying: "Let no friend hereafter who loves
me tempt me to peril my soul for wine. Not firmer are the everlasting hills than my resolve,
God helping me, never to touch or taste the poison cup. And he to whom I have given my hand,
who watched over my brother's dying form in that last solemn hour, and buried the dear wanderer
there by the river in that land of gold, will, I trust, sustain me in that resolve."

His glistening eyes, his sad, sweet smile, were her answer. The judge left the room. When,
an hour after, he returned, and with a more subdued manner took part in the entertainment of
the bridal guests, no one could fail to read that he had determined to banish the enemy forever
from his princely home.--"Touching Incidents and Remarkable Answers to Prayer."

A MOTHER'S SORROW

A company of Southern ladies, assembled in a parlor, were one day talking about their different
troubles. Each had something to say about her own trials. But there was one in the company,
pale and sad-looking, who for a while remained silent. Suddenly rousing herself, she said:--

"My friends, you do not any of you know what trouble is."

"Will you please, Mrs. Gray," said the kind voice of one who knew her story, "tell the ladies
what you call trouble?"

"I will, if you desire it; for, in the words of the prophet, 'I am the one who hath seen affliction.'

"My parents were very well off; and my girlhood was surrounded by all the comforts of life.
Every wish of my heart was gratified, and I was cheerful and happy.

"At the age of nineteen I married one whom I loved more than all the world besides. Our home
was retired; but the sun never shone upon a lovelier spot or a happier household. Years rolled
on peacefully. Five lovely children sat around our table, and a little curly head still nestled
in my bosom.

"One night about sundown one of those fierce, black storms came up, which are so common to
our Southern climate. For many hours the rain poured down incessantly. Morning dawned, but
still the elements raged. The country around us was overflowed. The little stream near our
dwelling became a foaming torrent. Before we were aware of it, our house was surrounded by
water. I managed, with my babe, to reach a little elevated spot, where the thick foliage of
a few wide-spread trees afforded some protection, while my husband and sons strove to save
what they could of our property. At last a fearful surge swept away my husband, and he never
rose again. Ladies, no one ever loved a husband more. But that was not trouble.

"Presently my sons saw their danger, and the struggle for life became the only consideration.
They were as brave, loving boys as ever blessed a mother's heart; and I watched their efforts
to escape, with such an agony as only mothers can feel. They were so far off that I could not
speak to them; but I could see them closing nearer and nearer to each other, as their little
island grew smaller and smaller.

"The swollen river raged fearfully around the huge trees. Dead branches, upturned trunks, wrecks
of houses, drowning cattle, and masses of rubbish, all went floating past us. My boys waved
their hands to me, and then pointed upward. I knew it was their farewell signal; and you, mothers,
can imagine my anguish. I saw them perish--all perish. Yet that was not trouble.

"I hugged my baby close to my heart; and when the water rose at my feet, I climbed into the
low branches of the tree, and so kept retiring before it, till the hand of God stayed the waters,
that they should rise no farther. I was saved. All my worldly possessions were swept away;
all my earthly hopes were blighted. Yet that was not trouble.

"My baby was all I had left on earth. I labored day and night to support him and myself, and
sought to train him in the right way. But, as he grew older, evil companions won him away from
me. He ceased to care for his mother's counsels; he sneered at her entreaties and agonizing
prayers. He became fond of drink. He left my humble roof, that he might be unrestrained in
his evil ways. And at last one night, when heated by wine, he took the life of a fellow creature.
He ended his days upon the gallows. God had filled my cup of sorrow before; now it ran over.
That was trouble, my friends, such as I hope the Lord of mercy will spare you from ever knowing."

Boys and girls, can you bear to think that you might bring such sorrow on your dear father
or mother? If you would not, be on your guard against intemperance. Let wine and liquors alone.
Never touch them.--Selected.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Ah, none but a mother can tell you, sir, how a mother's heart will ache
  With the sorrow that comes of a sinning child,
    with grief for a lost one's sake,
  When she knows the feet she trained to walk have gone so far astray,
  And the lips grown bold with curses that she taught to sing and pray!
  A child may fear, a wife may weep, but of all sad things none other
  Seems half so sorrowful to me as being a drunkard's mother."

THE REPRIMAND

At the sound of Mr. Troy's bell, Eleanor Graves vanished into his private office. Ten minutes
later she came out, with a deep flush on her face and tears in her eyes.

"He lectured me on the spelling of a couple of words and a mistake in a date," she complained
to Jim Forbes. "Anybody's liable to misspell a word or two in typing, and I know I took the
date down exactly as he gave it to me."

Jim looked uncomfortable. "I would not mind," he said awkwardly. "We all have to take it sometime
or other. Besides," he glanced hesitatingly at the pretty, indignant face, "I suppose the boss
thinks we ought not to make mistakes."

"As if I wanted to!" Eleanor retorted, stiffly.

But she worked more carefully the next week; for her pride was touched. Then, with restored
confidence, came renewed carelessness, and an error crept into one of the reports she was copying.
The error was slight, but it brought her a sharp reprimand from Mr. Troy. It was the second
time, he reminded her, that she had made that blunder. At the reproof the girl's face flushed
painfully, and then paled.

"If my work is not satisfactory, you had better find some one who can do it better," she said.

Whirling round in his swivel-chair, Mr. Troy looked at her. He had really never noticed his
latest stenographer before, but now his keen eyes saw many things that showed that she came
from a home where she had been petted and cared for.

"How long have you been at work?" he asked.

"This is my first position," Eleanor answered.

Mr. Troy nodded. "I understand. Now, Miss Graves, let me tell you something. You have many
of the qualities of a good business woman; you are punctual, you are not afraid of work, you
are fairly accurate. I have an idea that you take pride in turning out a good piece of work.
But you must learn to stand criticism and profit by it. We must all take it sometime, every
one of us. A weakling goes under. A strong man or woman learns to value it, to make every bit
of it count. That is what I hope you will do."

Eleanor braced herself to meet his eyes.

"If you will let me, I will try again," she said.--Youth's Companion.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Kingfisher

  A kingfisher sat on a flagpole slim,
  And watched for a fish till his eye was dim.
  "I wonder," said he, "if the fishes know
  That I, their enemy, love them so!
  I sit and watch and blink my eye
  And watch for fish and passers-by;
  I must occasionally take to wing
  On account of the stones that past me sing.
  *
  "I nearly always work alone;
  For past experience has shown
  That I can't gather something to eat,
  And visit my neighbor across the street.
  So whether I'm fishing early or late,
  I usually work without a mate,
  Since I can't visit and watch my game;
  For fishing's my business, and Fisher's my name.
  Maybe by watching, from day to day,
  My life and habits in every way,
  You might be taught a lesson or two
  That all through life might profit you;
  Or if you only closely look,
  This sketch may prove an open book,
  And teach a lesson you should learn.
  Look closely, and you will discern."

  CHAS. E.E. SANBORN.

AN EXAMPLE

Stealing away from the ones at home, who would be sad when they found out about it; stealing
away from honor, purity, cleanliness, goodness, and manliness, the minister's boy and the boy
next door were preparing to smoke their first cigarettes. They had skulked across the back
pasture, and were nearing the stone wall that separated Mr. Meadow's corn-field from the road;
and here, screened by the wall on one side and by corn on the other, they intended to roll
the little "coffin nails," and smoke them unseen.

The minister's boy, whose name was Johnny Brighton, and who was an innocent, unsuspicious child,
agreed that it would be a fine, manly thing to smoke. So the lads waited and planned, and now
their opportunity had come. The boy next door, whose name was Albert Beecher, saw old Jerry
Grimes, the worst character in Roseland, drop a small bag of tobacco and some cigarette-papers.
The lad, being unobserved, transferred the stuff from the sidewalk to his pocket, then hid
it in the wood-shed.

At last their plan seemed about to be carried out. Albert's mother was nursing a sick friend,
and the minister, secure in his study, was preparing a sermon. Johnny's mother was dead. His
aunt Priscilla was his father's housekeeper, and she was usually so busy that she had little
time for small boys. Today, as she began her sewing, Johnny slipped quietly from the house
and joined his chum.

The boys reached the stone wall and sat down, with the tobacco between them, to enjoy (?) what
they considered a manly deed. After considerable talk and a few blunders, each succeeded in
rolling a cigarette, and was about to pass it to his lips, when a strange voice, almost directly
above their heads, said, pleasantly, "Trying to kill yourselves, boys?"

