I looked imploringly at Miss Darry, who, slipping her hand within my arm, led me into a room
corresponding to the conservatory in size and position. The walls were mostly covered with
cabinet-pictures, and among several larger ones was the recent addition by Mr. Leopold. At
my first glance, I was conscious of that sense of disappointment which comes to us when our
imagination devises an ideal beauty, which human hands rob of delicacy by the very act of embodiment:
moreover, how could I, in my dreamy, undeveloped boy-life, with a fancy just awakened, and
revelling in its own tropical creations, appreciate the simple strength, the grand repose of
the picture before me? What appeared barren to me in the man and his works was born of the
very depth of a nature which, in copying the Infinite, had learned not only the tender beauty
of flowers, the consolations of the clouds, the grandeur of mountains, seas, and rocks, but
the beauty of common scenes, the grass and herbage of daily intercourse and use. Touching the
world at all points, he had something to give and receive from nearly every one he met; and,
as Sydney Smith has said Dr. Chalmers was a thousand men in one, I can say that he had the
versatility and power of ten ordinary artists. At the time, however, nothing of all this was
in my mind; only a certain sense of satisfaction took the place of disappointment, as I looked
at the picture. He had given clearly the impression of magnitude in the gigantic mass of gray
limestone which juts out of the deep blue Spanish sea. Misty flakes of dispersing cloud above
suggested the recent rain which had clothed its frequently barren sides with a mantle of verdure.
A few bell-shaped blossoms hung over crevices of rock, fearless in the frail foothold of their
thread-like stems, as innocent child-faces above a precipice. It was in this simple way, and
by the isthmus of sand connecting it to the continent, long and level, like the dash Nature
made after so grand a work, before descending to the commonplaces of ordinary creation, that
he had toned down the grandeur of stern old Gibraltar.

Miss Darry Indulged me long in my desire to look at the first fine picture I had ever seen;
but when other guests entered, we withdrew to the farther side of the room, where I was not
left in undisturbed possession of her society, though conscious that she never, for a moment,
lost sight of me or my manner of acquitting myself. Miss Merton, Miss Darry, Mr. Lang, Mr.
Leopold, and a few others, formed the group of talkers; and I stood within the circle, a listener,
until Miss Darry and Mr. Leopold obliged me to participate. They had an admirable power of
drawing each other out, and he seemed greatly attracted by her brilliant criticisms of life
and Art. Had I known of the theory which, robbed of its metaphysical subtilties, is advanced
in some of our fashionable romances, I should have been convinced that evening that Miss Darry
was, intellectually at least, my counterpart. If I faltered in my vocabulary, when expressing
an opinion or replying to a question, she supplied the missing word, or by glance and approving
smile reassured me to recall it; if my thought lacked shape and completeness, she gave it a
few sharp cuts with the chisel of her keen wit and clear intellect, handing it back for me
to color as I chose. Miss Merton, lovely as she was, shone with a lesser light that evening
in Miss Darry's presence; yet Mr. Lang, tempted away for a moment, always rejoined her with
an admiring smile, well pleased at fascinations less indiscriminately exercised.

A little later, as I again approached Mr. Leopold's picture, not venturing to return to the
parlors, now that Miss Darry was engrossed by other gentlemen, I became an unwilling listener
to a few words of conversation between Miss Merton and Mr. Lang, who stood just outside the door.