  Pamela Giraud--Balzac again attempts to become member of the
  Academie Francaise--Mlle. Henriette Borel's reception into a
  religious house--Comte Georges Mniszech--"Les Paysans" started in
  La Presse--Madame Hanska's unreasonableness hinders Balzac's
  work--He travels with her and her daughter, and they return with
  him to Passy--Comtesse Anna engaged to Comte Georges Mniszech
  --Balzac takes Madame Hanska and her daughter to Brussels--He
  meets Madame Hanska at Baden-Baden--Leaves Paris again, meets
  Wierzchownia party at Naples--Buys bric-a-brac for future home
  --Work neglected--Dispute with Emile de Girardin--Balzac's
  unhappiness and suspense--He goes to Rome--Comes back better
  in health and spirits--"La Cousine Bette" and "Le Cousin Pons"
  --Balzac goes to Wiesbaden--Marriage of Comtesse Anna and Comte
  Georges Mniszech--Balzac and Madame Hanska secretly engaged
  --Parisian gossip.

On September 26th, 1843, during Balzac's absence in St. Petersburg, another play of which he
was author was produced at the Gaite. It was called "Pamela Giraud," and the plot is contrived
with an ability which proves Balzac's increased knowledge of the art of writing for the theatre.
At the same time he has attempted no innovations, but he has kept to the beaten track; and
the play is an old-fashioned melodrama with thrilling and heart-rending situations, and virtue
triumphant at the end. Owing to Balzac's attack on journalism in the "Monographie de la Presse
Parisienne," which had appeared in March, and finished with the words, "Si la presse n'existait
pas, il faudrait ne pas l'inventer," the whole newspaper world was peculiarly hostile to him
at this time, and his play received no mercy, and was a failure. Curiously enough, Balzac seemed
rather pleased at this news, which reached him at Berlin, on his journey home to France. He
had made use of the services of two practised writers for the theatre to fit his melodrama
to the exigencies of the stage, and possibly this fact dulled his interest in it. At any rate
he was strangely philosophical about its fate.

On November 28th, 1843, soon after his return to Paris, a vacancy was left in the Academy by
the death of M. Vincent Campenon; and Charles Nodier and Victor Hugo proposed Balzac as a candidate
for the empty seat. Balzac, however, soon withdrew, as he found that his impecunious condition
would be a reason for his rejection, and he wrote promptly to Nodier and to M. de Pongerville,
another member of the Academy, that if he could not enter L'Academie because of honourable
poverty, he would never present himself at her doors when prosperity was his portion. In September,
1845, another vacancy occurred; but in spite of Madame de Girardin's entreaties that Balzac
should again come forward as a candidate, he refused decidedly, and wrote to Madame Hanska
that in doing this he knew himself to be consulting her wishes.

The year 1844 was not an unhappy one with Balzac, though his health was bad, and he speaks
of terrible neuralgia; so that he wrote "Les Paysans" with his head in opium, as he had written
"Cesar Birotteau" with his feet in mustard. Apparently Madame Hanska held out hopes that in
1845 his long probation might come to and end, as he writes: "Days of illness are days of pleasure
to me, for when I do not work with absorption of all my moral and physical qualities, I never
cease thinking of 1845. I arrange houses, I furnish them, I see myself there, and I am happy."[*]
It was a joy to him to fulfil Madame Hanska's commissions, and thus to come in contact with
people who had been at any time connected with her. Therefore, in spite of his busy life, he
took much trouble over the arrangements for the entrance of Anna's former governess, Mlle Henriette
Borel, into a religious house in Paris, and was present at her reception into the Couvent de
la Visitation, Rue l'Enfer, in December, 1845. He was rather annoyed on this occasion, as he
was working tremendously hard at the "Comedie Humaine," and at his "Petites Miseres de la Vie
Conjugale," and the good nuns, who "thought the world turned only for themselves," told him
that the ceremony would take place at one o'clock and would last an hour, whereas it was not
over till four, and as he had to see Lirette afterwards, he could not get away till half-past
five. However, he was consoled by the idea that he was representing his dear Countess and Anna,
who were in Italy at the time, and he thought the service imposing and very dramatic. He was
specially thrilled when the three new nuns threw themselves on the ground, were covered with
a pall, while prayers for the dead were recited over them; and after this rose up crowned with
white roses, as the brides of Christ. Lirette was radiant when she had taken the veil, and
wished that every one would enter a religious house.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 102.

In July, 1844, Madame Hanska and her daughter made the acquaintance of the Comte Georges Mniszech,
who appeared to be a very suitable partifor Anna. Balzac naturally took a keen interest in
all the prospective arrangements, and consulted anxiously with Madame Hanska about the young
Comte's character, which must of course have proved perfect, before a treasure like the young
Countess could be confided to his keeping. It is strikingly characteristic of Balzac's disinterestedness,
that though he knew that the young Countess's marriage would remove the principal obstacle
between him and Madame Hanska, he was most insistent in recommending caution till the young
man had been for some time on probation. However, an engagement soon took place, and it seemed
as though the great desire of Balzac's heart would in a short time be within his reach, and
that happiness would shine upon him at last.

In 1844 he published among other books "Modeste Mignon," "Gaudissart II," a fragment of the
first part of "L'Envers de L'Histoire Contemporaine," which he entitled "Madame de la Chanterie,"
the end of the first part of "Splendeurs et Miseres des Courtisanes," the third and last part
of "Beatrix," and the first part of "Les Paysans." This began to appear in La Presse on December
3rd, and the disputes about its publication led to Balzac's final rupture with Emile de Girardin.

"Les Paysans" was never finished; but was intended to be the most considerable, as it is, even
in its present fragmentary condition, one of the most remarkable of Balzac's novels. For eight
years he had at intervals started on the composition of this vivid picture of the deep under-current
of struggle which was going on between the peasant of France and the bourgeoisie; that deadly
fight for the possession of the soil which resulted, as the great voyant plainly descried it
must, in the Revolution of 1848, and the victory of the peasant. Balzac also intended to depict
the demoralisation of the people by their abandonment of the Catholic religion; and the novel,
in emulation of Victor Hugo and of Dumas, was to fill many volumes. The first version of it,
entitled "Le Grand Proprietaire," was begun about 1835, and the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul
in his interesting book entitled "La Genese d'un Roman de Balzac," gives the text of this,
the MS. of which forms part of his collection. About the year 1836 or 1838, Balzac altered
the title of his proposed novel to "Qui a Terre, a Guerre," and it was not till 1839 that he
named the work "Les Paysans." In 1840 Balzac offered "Les Paysans," which he said was ready
to appear in fifteen days, to M. Dujarier, the manager of La Presse, and received 1,650 francs
in advance for the novel. However, in 1841 he substituted "Les Deux Freres," which was the
first part of "La Rabouilleuse," for "Les Paysans," and offered the latter work as if finished
to Le Messager and also to the publisher Locquin, under the title of "La Chaumiere et le Chateau."

In April, 1843, Balzac had paid back part of his debt to La Presse by publishing "Honorine"
in its columns, but in September, 1844, he received 9,000 francs in advance for the still unwritten
"Les Paysans." It was further arranged that when this debt had been worked out, he should be
given sixty centimes a line for the remainder of the novel, and that La Presse should pay for
composition and corrections. It will be noticed that Emile de Girardin, the autocratic chief
of La Presse, had at last wearied of the bickering which had gone on between him and Balzac
ever since their first relations of 1830, and in 1840 had handed over the task of dealing with
the aggravating author to his subordinate Dujarier. The treaty concerning "Les Paysans" was
therefore drawn up with Dujarier, and matters no doubt would have proceeded harmoniously, had
not the latter been killed in a duel in March, 1845.

The first number of "Les Paysans" appeared on December 3rd, 1844, and then, owing to a most
untoward concatenation of circumstances, there was a long pause in Balzac's contributions to
La Presse. Madame Hanska had unfortunately decided for some time that she would in 1845 make
one of those journeys which more than anything else threw Balzac and his affairs into inextricable
confusion. Before M. de Hanski's death, however, Balzac was at any rate welcomed with effusion
when, in his longing to see Madame Hanska, he left his affairs in Paris to take care of themselves.
In those early days she was devotedly attached to him; besides, an adorer was a fashionable
appendage for an elegant married woman, and the conquest of a distinguished man of letters
like Balzac was something to be proud of. Now, however, there was no husband as a protector
in the eyes of the world; and marriage, a marriage about which she felt many qualms, loomed
large before her startled eyes. She had no intention of giving up the delightful luxury of
Balzac's love; but might she not by judicious diplomacy, she sometimes asked herself, manage
to enjoy this, without taking the last irrevocable step? Her position was not enviable, the
state of feeling embodied in the words "she would and she wouldn't" always betokening in the
subject a wearing variability of mind posture; but compared with the anguish of Balzac, whom
she was slowly killing by her vacillations, her woes do not deserve much sympathy.

At St. Petersburg, possibly during one of their walks on the quay, or on a cozy evening when
the samovar was brought up at nine o'clock, and placed on the white table with yellowish lines--she
had promised Balzac that he might meet her next year at Dresden. However, when she arrived
there, and found herself in a circle of her own relations, who according to Balzac poisoned
her mind against him, she not only objected to his presence, but, in her sudden fear of gossip,
she forbade him to write to her again during her stay at Dresden. She sent off another letter
almost at once, contradicting her last command; but she would not make up her mind whether
Balzac might come to her at Dresden, whether she would consent to meet him at Frankfort, or
whether he should prepare a house for her and Anna in Paris. Balzac could settle to nothing.
In order to work as he understood the word, it was necessary that he should exclude all outside
disturbing influence, and hear only the voices of the world where Le Pere Goriot, old Grandet,
La Cousine Bette, and their fellows, toiled, manoeuvred, and suffered. How could he do this,
how could he even arrange his business affairs, when a letter might come by any post, telling
him to start at once and meet his beloved one? Precious time was wasted, never to be recalled;
and when Balzac, raging with impatience and irritation, dared very gently, and with words of
affection, to express the feelings which devoured him, the divinity was offended, and he received
a rebuke for his impatience and tone of authority.

In April, 1845, he writes: "Shall I manage to write two numbers of the 'Paysans' in twelve
days? That is the problem, for I have not a single line written. Dresden and you, between you,
turn my head; I do not know what will become of me. There is nothing more fatal than the state
of indecision in which you have kept me for three months. It has been enough to make a man
mad! In vain I have stuffed myself with coffee: I have only succeeded in increasing the nervous
trembling of my eyes, and I have written nothing; this is my situation to-day, April 10th;
and I have La Presse behind me, sending to me every day, and the 'Paysans,' which is my first
long work. I am between two despairs, that of not seeing you, of not having seen you, and the
literary and financial trouble, the trouble of self-respect. Oh, Charles II. was quite right
to say: 'But she?' in all the affairs submitted to him by his ministers.

"I can only write you this word, and it is full of sadness, for I must work and try to forget
you for several days, to belong in the future more thoroughly and surely to you. It is noon;
I start again at 'Les Paysans' for the tenth time, and all the muscles in my face work like
those of an animal; Nature has had enough of work--she kicks over the traces. Ah! why have
I debts? Why must I work whether I wish to or not? I am so unhappy, so tormented, so despondent,
that I refuse to be hopeless; you must surely see that I am more than ever yours, and that
I pass my life uselessly away from you, for the glory gained by inspired work is not worth
a few hours passed with you! In the end I trust only in God and in you alone: in you who do
not write me a word more for that; you who might at least console me with three letters a week,
and who hardly write me two, and those so short!"[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 142.

However, on April 18th he received a letter from Madame Hanska containing the words, "I wish
to see you," and rushed off at once to Dresden oblivious of everything but his one desire.
La Presse apparently submitted to this interruption philosophically. Its readers had not found
the opening of "Les Paysans" amusing, while Le Moniteur de l'Armee had strongly and rather
absurdly objected to it, as likely to lower military prestige. La Presse had therefore decided
in any case to put off the appearance of "Les Paysans" till February, and to begin the year
1845 with "La Reine Margot," by Alexandre Dumas.

Meanwhile Balzac was having a delightful time. Having joined Madame Hanska at Dresden, he travelled
with her and the Comtesse Anna and Comte Georges Mniszech, who had lately become engaged, to
Cannstadt, Carlsruhe, and Strasburg; and to his intense delight, in July, the Countess and
her daughter came to him at Passy, and took up their abode in a little house near the Rue Basse,
with a carefully chosen housemaid, cook, and man. The Czar had prohibited the journey to France,
so they travelled incognito as Balzac's sister and niece, the Countess Anna taking the name
of Eugenie, perhaps in remembrance of Balzac's heroine Eugenie Grandet.[*] In the morning they
went by cab or on foot into Paris, and in the evening a carriage was at their disposal, and
they visited the theatre and the opera. We can easily realise the excitement and joy Balzac
felt in showing them all his treasures--the bust by David D'Angers, the precious Medici furniture
of ebony encrusted with mother-of-pearl, the Cellini statuettes, and the pictures by Giorgione,
Palma, Watteau, and Greuze.

[*] "La Genese d'un Roman de Balzac," by the Vicomte de Spoelberch de
    Lovenjoul.

July passed quickly in this mode of life, Balzac acting as cicerone to the two ladies, and
their identity was fortunately not discovered. In August he conducted them as far as Brussels
on their way back to Dresden, and together they visited Fontainebleau, Orleans, Bourges, his
much-loved Tours, Blois, Rotterdam, La Hague, and Antwerp. At Brussels they were met by M.
Georges Mniszech, who took charge of the two Countesses in Balzac's place. The latter felt
obliged to write afterwards to the Count to apologise for his cold good-bye, and to explain
that he had been forced to assume indifference, because he feared a complete breakdown unless
he sternly repressed all appearance of feeling.

However, he was not away for long from Madame Hanska, as he spent from September 20th till
October 4th with her at Baden-Baden, where she had been ordered for a course of the waters.
The time there was the happiest in his life, as it seemed to him that he could now plainly
see a picture of the future, which he prayed for and dreamed of in the midst of his crushing work.

On October 16th, 1845, he left Paris again, met Madame Hanska, her daughter, and prospective
son-in-law at Chalons, and started with them on their Italian tour. It took a day to travel
by boat from Chalons to Lyons, and another day to go by boat from Lyons to Avignon; but the
time flew from Madame Hanska and Balzac, who were engrossed all the way in delightful talk.
They arrived at Marseilles on October 29th, and stayed for two nights at the Hotel d'Orient,
where Balzac's friend Mery had secured rooms for them. They then went by sea to Naples, and
there Balzac worked so hard at sight-seeing, saw so much, and talked so volubly, that he was
quite exhausted. He remained a few days only at Naples, and had a very tiring journey back,
as the sea was extremely rough; and when he reached Marseilles Mery insisted on taking him
into society, so that he had no opportunity of resting even there. It was altogether a very
expensive journey. He could not drink the water on board the boat coming home, and therefore
was obliged to quench his thirst with champagne; and as the captain and the steward showed
him extraordinary politeness, they had also to be given champagne, and invited to a lunch party
at the Hotel d'Orient when the ship arrived at Marseilles. Balzac was evidently rather ashamed
of this escapade, and begged Madame Hanska not to let Georges know anything of his extravagance,
as he would be certain to make fun of it.

The bric-a-brac shops at Marseilles were another terrible cause of temptation, and one to which
Balzac apparently succumbed without a struggle, consoling himself with the reflection that
his purchases were "de vraies occasions a saisir."

When he arrived at Passy on November 17th, and retired to bed with an attack of fever as the
result of all his fatigues, he might be expected to feel slightly depressed at the thought
of the time he had wasted during the last few months, and of his small advance in the work
of paying off his debts. As far as we can judge, however, these were not his reflections. He
was dreaming of the past year, the happiest year of his life, because so much of it had been
spent with Madame Hanska; and when his mind turned to more practical subjects, he thought of
various projects for buying the house which was to be their future home, and of the way it
should be decorated. His mind dwelt constantly on these preparations for his married life;
and he continued to correspond with Mery, and to entrust him with delicate commissions which
required much bargaining. At this Mery was not, according to his own account, very successful,
as he remarks in an amusing letter to Balzac: "I call to witness all the marble false gods
which decorate Lazardo's dark museum. I have neglected nothing to succeed with your message.
I have paid indolent visits, I have taken the airs of a bored 'agathophile,' I have turned
my back on the objects of your desire. All my efforts have been in vain. They obstinately continue
to ask fabulous prices."[*]

[*] Letters from the collection of the Vicomte de Spoelberch de
    Lovenjoul, published in the Revue Bleue of December 5th, 1903.

In February, 1845,[*] Balzac had written cheerfully about the 30,000 francs for "Les Paysans"
which he would obtain from the publisher, and the 10,000 from the journal; of the 15,000 francs
which would come to him from "La Comedie Humaine," and the 30,000 from the sale of Les Jardies,
besides 10,000 francs from his other works and 20,000 from the railway du Nord; and had calculated
that his most pressing liabilities would soon be discharged. His figures and computations on
the subject of money can never be relied on, and the railway du Nord was a most unfortunate
speculation, and proved a constant drain on his resources. Nevertheless, there is no doubt
that he was beginning to diminish perceptibly the burden of debt which pressed upon him, and
that if Madame Hanska had not existed, and if on the other hand he had not himself embarked
on some mad scheme or senseless piece of extravagance, he might in a few years have become
a free man. These long months of expensive inaction rendered this happy solution to the troubles
of his life impossible.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 123.

Meanwhile fresh misfortunes were gathering. On November 27th, 1845, Emile de Girardin, who
since Dujarier's death had resumed business relations with Balzac, addressed to him a most
discourteous letter. He apparently disbelieved in the terms of the agreement by which the great
writer was to be paid sixty centimes a line for "Les Paysans," and demanded a certified copy
of it;[*] and he also announced that for "Les Petites Miseres de la Vie Conjugale," which was
about to appear in the Revue, he could not pay more than forty centimes, which was, he said,
his maximum price to contributors. Later on, in March, 1846, Girardin despatched another message
to complain of the delay in continuing "Les Paysans," and in this he remarked with bitter emphasis
that as La Presse paid so highly for what was published in her pages, she had at least the
right of objecting to being treated lightly. Balzac replied on March 16th, 1846, that he was
the one who ought to bear malice, as Dujarier had upset his arrangements by interrupting the
publication of "Les Paysans" to substitute "La Reine Margot," by Dumas, and that now his brain
required rest, and that he was starting that very day for a month's holiday in Rome.

If Balzac had remained in France it is doubtful whether he would have written much, as he had
been in a miserably unsettled state all the winter of 1845 to 1846. His health was bad: he
mentions continual colds and neuralgia, and on one occasion remarks that owing to complete
exhaustion he has slept all through the day. Besides this, his suspense about Madame Hanska's
ultimate decision made him absolutely wretched. He writes to her on December 17th, 1845: "Nothing
amuses me, nothing distracts me, nothing animates me; it is the death of the soul, the death
of the will, the weakening of the whole being; I feel that I can only take up my work again
when I see my life determined, fixed, arranged."[*] Later on in the same letter he says: "I
am crushed; I have waited too long, I have hoped too much; I have been too happy this year,
and I do not want anything else. After so many years of misfortune and of work, to have been
free as a bird, superhumanly happy, and to return to one's cell! . . . is it possible? . .
. I dream: I dream by day and by night, and the thought of the heart driven back on itself
prevents all action of the thought of the brain; it is terrible!"

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 200.

On one occasion Madame Hanska wrote apparently reproaching him with talking indiscreetly about
her; and without finishing the letter, the end of which was affectionate, and would have calmed
his mind, he at once jumped out of the cab in which he was driving, and walked for hours about
Paris. He was wearing thin shoes, and there were two inches of snow on the ground; but his
agitation was so great at her unjust accusations, and his indignation so fierce at the wickedness
of the people who had libelled him, that he hardly knew where he was going, and returned at
last, still so excited by the anguish of his mind, that he was not conscious of bodily fatigue.
Such crises, and the consequent exhaustion afterwards, were not conducive to work; particularly
in a man whose heart was already affected, and who had overstrained his powers for years.

Possibly in the hope of obtaining distraction and relief from the anxious misery of thought,
he went into society more than usual this year; and in spite of the strained relations between
him and Emile de Girardin, he often dined at the editor's house, and was on most friendly terms
with Madame de Girardin. On January 1st, 1846, he wrote to Madame Hanska, "I dined, as I told
you in my last letter, with Nestor Roqueplan, the director of the Theatre des Varietes, the
last Wednesday of December, and the last day of the month with the illustrious Delphine. We
laughed as much as I can laugh without you, and far from you. Delphine is really the queen
of conversation; that evening she was especially sublime, brilliant, charming. Gautier was
there as well; I left after having a long talk with him. He said that there was no hurry for
'Richard, Coeur d'Eponge'; the theatre is well provided at present. Perhaps Gautier and I will
write the piece together later on."[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 212.

Balzac's mind was still running on the theatre. Owing to failing health and to his unfortunate
love affair, he now found it more difficult to concentrate his mind than formerly, and the
incessant work of earlier years was no longer possible; so that the easy road to fortune offered
by a successful play became doubly attractive. "Richard Coeur d'Eponge," however, never appeared;
and except several fragments, which are in the hands of the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul,
it is doubtful whether it was written, though Balzac often discussed the plot with Gautier.

What, after all, were novels, essays, or plays, of what interest were scenes, plots, or characters,
what was fame, what was art itself, compared with Madame Hanska? How was it possible for a
man to work, with the gloriously disquieting prospect before him that in so many months, weeks,
days, he should meet his divinity? The phantoms of his imagination faded to insignificance,
and then to utter nullity, beside the woman of flesh and blood, the one real object in a world
of shadows. On March 17th, 1846, he started on his journey to Rome, and everything became a
blank, except the intoxicating thought that each hour diminished the distance between him and
the woman he loved. She evidently received him with enthusiasm, and showed so much affection,
that though nothing definite was settled, he felt that her ultimate decision to marry him was
certain; and was only deferred to a more convenient season, when her daughter Anna should have
become La Comtesse Mniszech. Therefore the whole world brightened for him, and he became again
full of life and vigour. He stayed for a month in the Eternal City, was presented to the Pope,
admired St. Peter's extremely, and said that his time there would for ever remain one of the
greatest and most beautiful recollections of his life. As the route by sea was crowded by travellers
who had spent Holy Week in Rome, and all wanted to return at the same time, he travelled back
by Switzerland; and explored fresh country and hunted for curiosities on the way. Several pictures
were to follow him from Italy: a Sebastian del Piombo, a Bronzino, and a Mirevelt, which he
describes as of extreme beauty; and with his usual happy faith in his own good luck, he hoped
to pick up some other bargains such as "Hobbemas and Holbeins for a few crowns," in the towns
through which he would pass on his journey. A definite engagement did not take place till some
months later; but some tacit understanding must now have been allowed by Madame Hanska, as
there began to appear from this time in Balzac's letters exact descriptions of the Sevres china,
the inlaid furniture, and the bric-a-brac, which he was buying evidently with her money as
well as his own, to adorn their future home together. As usual, on his return he found his
affairs in utter confusion, was pursued by creditors, and was absolutely without money. As
a last misfortune, his housekeeper, Madame de Brugnolle, in whose name the habitation at Passy
had been rented, and who generally managed his business affairs, was busy preparing for her
approaching marriage, and had naturally no time to spare for her supposed lodger's difficulties.
Altogether Balzac felt that the world was a harassing place.

However, his health was admirable, "et le talent! . . . oh! je l'ai retrouve dans sa fleur!"[*]
He was full of hope and confidence; and although the shares of the railway du Nord continued
to fall in value, he considered that with steady work at his novels, and with the help of a
successful comedy, he would soon have paid off his debts, and would have a little house of
his own, with room for his beautiful things; which, owing to want of space, and also to fear
of his creditors, were never unpacked. It was necessary to prove that he was as young, as fresh,
and as fertile as ever, and with this object in view, in June, 1846, he began the two books
which were to form the series entitled "L'Histoire des Parents Pauvres." The first, "La Cousine
Bette," appeared in the Constitutionnel from October to December, 1846, and is intended to
represent "a poor relation oppressed by humiliations and injuries, living in the midst of three
or four families of her relations, and meditating vengeance for the bruising of her amour-propre,
and for her wounded vanity!"[*] The second received several names in turn. It was first called
"Le Vieux Musicien," next "Le Bonhomme Pons," and then "Le Parasite," a title on which Balzac
said he had decided definitely. However, Madame Hanska objected, as she declared that "Le Parasite"
was only suitable for an eighteenth-century comedy, and the book appeared in April, 1847, as
"Le Cousin Pons." Though intensely tragic, it is not as horrible or revolting as its pendant,
the gloomy "Cousine Bette"; and Balzac has portrayed admirably the simple old man with his
fondness for good dinners; "the poor relation oppressed by humiliations and injuries, pardoning
all, and only revenging himself by doing kindnesses." Side by side with him is the touching
figure of his faithful friend Schmucke, the childlike German musician, who dies of grief at
the death of Pons. In writing these two remarkable books, his last important works, Balzac
proved conclusively that his hand had not lost its cunning, and that the slow rate of literary
production during the last few years of his life was caused by his unhappy circumstances, and
not by any failure in his genius.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 243.

After all, the year 1846 ended for him with agitation which increased his heart disease. His
beloved trio, whom he had christened the "troupe Bilboquet," after the vaudeville "Les Saltimbanques,"
had now moved to Wiesbaden; and thither their faithful "Bilboquet," the "vetturino per amore,"
as Madame de Girardin laughingly called him, rushed to meet them. He found "notre grande et
chere Atala" rather crippled with rheumatism, and not able to take the exercise which was necessary
for her, but in his eyes as beautiful as ever. The "gentille Zephirine," otherwise the Countess
Anna, was gay, charming, and beautifully dressed; and "Gringalet," the Count, was completely
occupied--when not making love--with his collection of insects, on which he spent large sums.
About this collection Balzac made many rather heavy jokes, calling the Count a "Gringalet sphynx-lepidoptere-coleoptere-ante-diluvien,"[*]
but in an anxious desire to ingratiate himself with Madame Hanska's family, he often despatched
magnificent specimens of the insect species from Paris to add to it.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 287.

Balzac travelled about a little with the Hanski family, and remained with them till September
15th, when he was obliged to go back to Paris. Either at this time, or when he returned for
the wedding of the Comtesse Anna and the Comte Georges Mniszech, which took place at Wiesbaden
on October 13th, 1846, a secret engagement was contracted between him and Madame Hanska.

He was now terribly anxious that there should be no further delay about his marriage, and on
his way back from Germany on one of these two occasions, he applied to M. Germeau, then prefect
of Metz,[*] who had been at school with him at Vendome, to know whether the necessary formalities
could be abridged, so that the wedding might take place at once. This was impossible; and though
the great obstacle to their union was now removed, Madame Hanska refused to be parted from
her beloved daughter, and insisted on accompanying the newly married couple on their honeymoon.
Her determination caused Balzac terrible agony of mind, as she was unwell, and was suffering
a great deal at the time, and he therefore wished her to remain quietly somewhere in France;
moreover, despair seized him at her hesitation to become his wife, when the course at last
seemed clear. His trouble at this time appears to have had a serious effect on his health,
and some words spoken half in malice, half in warning by Madame de Girardin, must have sounded
like a knell in his ears. He tells them apparently in jest to Madame Hanska to give her an
example of the nonsense people talk in Paris. In his accuracy of repetition, however, we can
trace a passionately anxious desire to force Madame Hanska herself to deny the charges brought
against her; and perhaps lurking behind this, a wish unacknowledged even to himself, to shame
her if--even after all that had passed--she were really not in earnest.

[*] See "Une Page Perdue de Honore de Balzac," p. 276, by the Vicomte
    de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul.

He says: "Madame de Girardin told me that she heard from a person who knew you intimately,
that you were extremely flattered by my homage; that from vanity and pride you made me come
wherever you went; that you were very happy to have a man of genius as courier, but that your
social position was too high to allow me to aspire to anything else. And then she began to
laugh with an ironical laugh, and told me that I was wasting my time running after great ladies,
only to fail with them. Hein! Isn't that like Paris!"[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 295.

The reader of Balzac's life is forced to the sad conclusion that Parisian gossip had on this
occasion sketched the situation tolerably correctly; though the truth of the picture was no
doubt denied with much indignation by Madame Hanska.

                             CHAPTER XIV

                             1846 - 1848

  Balzac buys a house in the Rue Fortunee--Madame Hanska's visit to
  Paris--Balzac burns her letters--Final breach with Emile de
  Girardin--Balzac's projects for writing for the theatre--He goes
  to Wierzchownia--Plan for transporting oaks from Russia to France
  --Balzac returns to Paris at the eve of the Revolution of 1848
  --Views on politics--Stands for last time as deputy.

Much of Balzac's time, whenever he was in Paris in 1845 and 1846, was taken up with house-hunting;
and some of his still unpublished letters to Madame Hanska contain long accounts of the advantages
of the different abodes he had visited. He was now most anxious to be permanently settled,
as there was no room for his art treasures in the Rue Basse; but as Madame Hanska's tastes
had to be consulted as well as his own, it was necessary to be very careful in his choice.
However, in October, 1846, he at last found something which he thought would be suitable. This
was the villa which had formerly belonged to the financier Beaujon, in the Rue Fortunee, now
the Rue Balzac. The house was not large, it was what might now be described as a "bijou residence,"
but though out of repair, it had been decorated with the utmost magnificence by Beaujon, and
Balzac's discriminating eye quickly discerned its aesthetic possibilities.

In front of the house was a long narrow courtyard, the pavement of which was interrupted here
and there by flower-beds. This courtyard was bordered by a wall, and above the wall nothing
could be seen from the road but a cupola, which formed the domed ceiling of the financier's
boudoir. Some of the inside adornments possessed a delightful fitness for the uses to which
they were destined. For instance, what could have been a more graceful compliment to the Mniszechs
than to lodge them during their visits to Paris, which would of course be frequent, in a set
of rooms painted with brilliant exotic butterflies, poised lightly on lovely flowers? Apparently
foreseeing, as Balzac remarks, that a "Lepidopterian Georges" would at some time inhabit the
mansion, Beaujon had actually provided a beautiful bedroom and a little drawing-room decorated
in this way.[*] It seemed quite providential!

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 289.

Balzac was very happy superintending the building operations, deciding exactly where his different
treasures would look best in his new abode, and hunting for fresh acquisitions to make every
detail perfect. Later on, his letters from Russia to his mother when she was taking charge
of the house--then furnished and decorated--show how dearly he loved all his household goods,
and how well he was acquainted with their peculiarities; how he realised the danger, unless
it were held by the lower part,[*] of moving the greenish-grey china vase with cracked glaze,
which was to stand on one of the consoles in black wood and Buhl marqueterie; and how he thought
anxiously about the candle ornaments of gilt crystal, which were only to be arranged after
the candelabra had been put up in the white drawing-room. In 1846 and 1847, his letters are
instinct with the passion of the confirmed collector, who has no thought beyond his bric-a-brac.
His excitement is intense because Madame Hanska has discovered that a tea service in his possession
is real Watteau, and because he has had the "incredible good fortune" to find a milk jug and
a sugar basin to match it exactly. When we remember that the man who thus expresses his delight
was in the act of writing "Les Parents Pauvres," and of evoking scenes of touching pathos and
gloomy horror, we are once more amazed at the extraordinary versatility of Balzac's mind and
genius.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 337.

The deep thinker, the pessimistic believer in the omnipotence of vice and in the helpless suffering
of virtue, who drags to light what is horrible from among the dregs of the people, seems to
have nothing in common with the charming, playful figure of "le vieux Bilboquet," who gave
Madame Hanska's daughter and her son-in-law a big place in his heart, and was never jealous
when, avowedly for their sakes, his wishes, feelings, and health were unconsidered; whose servants,
hard-worked though they were, adored him; and who never forgot his friends, or failed to help
them when adversity fell upon them.

At the beginning of 1847, peace for a time visited Balzac's restless spirit. In February he
went to Germany to fetch Madame Hanska, and leaving the Mniszechs to go back alone to Wierzchownia,
she travelled with him to Paris, and remained there till April. It is significant, as the Vicomte
de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul remarks,[*] that during the time of her stay in Paris, when Balzac's
mind was no longer disturbed by his constant longing to see her, he accomplished the last serious
bout of work in his life, beginning the "Depute D'Arcis" in L'Union, "La Cousine Bette" in
the Constitutionnel, and "La Derniere Incarnation de Vautrin" in La Presse.

[*] "La Genese d'un Roman de Balzac," p. 194

He had other duties at the same time, being occupied with what he calls the most beautiful
work of his life, that of preventing "a mother separated from so adorable a child as her Grace
the Countess Georges, from dying of grief." He writes to the Mniszechs on February 27th, 1847[*]:
"Our dear adored Atala is in a charming and magnificent apartment (and not too dear). She has
a garden; she goes a great deal to the convent" (to see Mlle. Henriette Borel). "I try to distract
her and to be as much as possible Anna to her; but the name of her dear daughter is so daily
and continually on her lips, that the day before yesterday, when she was enjoying herself immensely
at the Varietes--in fits of laughter at the 'Filleul de Tout le Monde,' acted by Bouffe and
Hyacinthe--in the midst of her gaiety, she asked herself in a heartbroken voice, which brought
tears to my eyes, how she could laugh and amuse herself like this, without her 'dear little
one.' I allow, dear Zephirine, that I took the liberty of telling her, that you were amusing
yourself enormously without her, with your lord and master, His Majesty the King of the Coleoptera;
that I was sure that you were at this time one of the happiest women in the world; and I hope
that Gringalet, on whom I drew this bill of exchange, will not contradict me. I have four tolerably
strong attractions to bring forward against the thought of you: 1st, the Conservatoire; 2nd,
the Opera; 3rd, the Italian Opera; 4th, the Exhibition."

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 312.

Balzac's hands were certainly pleasantly full at this time. His power of writing, which had
temporarily deserted him, seemed now to have returned in full vigour; and he had made forty
or fifty thousand francs in three months, so was hopeful of paying off his debts, a point on
which Madame Hanska wisely laid much stress. She still refused to decide anything definitely
about the date of their marriage; but the house was to a great extent her property, and at
this time she identified herself completely with Balzac in all the arrangements to do with
it. Though he kept on his rooms in the Rue Basse and left his effects there, he moved in April
1847 to the Rue Fortunee, that he might be better able to superintend the building and decorating,
and might himself keep watch over his treasures, which must gradually be unpacked and bestowed
to the best advantage. About the middle of April he conducted Madame Hanska to Forbach on her
way back to Wierzchownia, and himself returned to Paris to finish the house, put his affairs
in order, and then follow her to Wierzchownia. There he hoped the wedding would quickly take
place, and that Monsieur and Madame Honore de Balzac would return to Paris, and would live
to a ripe old age in married happiness; he writing many masterpieces, she helping with advice,
and forming a salon where her social position, cleverness, and charm would surround her with
the highest in the land. The prospect was intoxicating; surely no one was ever so near the
attainment of his most radiant visions!

On Balzac's return to Paris, however, he was confronted by realities of the most terrible nature.

When he arrived at the Rue Basse, he found to his horror that the lock of his precious casket
had been forced, and some of Madame Hanska's letters had been abstracted. It was a case of
blackmail, as the thief demanded 30,000 francs, in default of which the letters would at once
be handed over to the Czar. If this were to happen, Balzac's hopes of happiness were annihilated,
and the consequences to Madame Hanska would be even more serious. Unless approached with the
utmost caution, the Czar would certainly refuse his consent to the marriage of a Russian subject
with a foreigner, and would be furious if he were to discover a secret love affair between
the French novelist and one of his most important subjects. Yet how could Balzac find 30,000
francs?

Already in the grip of heart disease the agony he endured at this time took him one stage further
down the valley of death. In the end he managed by frightening the thief, to effect the return
of the letters without any immediate payment; but the anguish he had passed through, and the
thought of the terrible consequences only just evaded, decided him to burn all the letters
he had received from Madame Hanska. It was a terrible sacrifice. He describes in an unpublished
letter to her his feelings, as he sat by the fire, and watched each letter curl up, blacken,
and finally disappear. He had read and re-read them till they had nearly dropped to pieces,
had been cheered and comforted by the sight of them when the world had gone badly, and had
owned them so long that they seemed part of himself. There was the first of all, the herald
of joy, the opening of a new life; and almost as precious at this moment seemed the one which
discovered to him the identity of his correspondent, and held out hopes of a speedy meeting.
One after another he took them out of the box which had held some of them for many years, and
each seemed equally difficult to part with. However, as he wrote to Madame Hanska, he knew
that he was doing right in destroying them, and that the painful sacrifice was absolutely necessary.

Meanwhile, Emile de Girardin was naturally becoming impatient about the continuation of "Les
Paysans," which he had never received.[*] He wrote to Balzac at the end of April, 1847, that
the printer had been ready for the finish of the book since the November before, and that unless
Balzac could produce it in June, the idea of its appearance in La Presse must be given up altogether;
and in this case he must ask the author to settle with M. Rouy about the advances of money
already made to him. He further remarked with scathing though excusable distrust in Balzac's
fulfilment of his business engagements, that he refused to continue to bring out the work at
all, unless he were absolutely certain that it was completely written and that no further interruption
would ensue. Friendly social relations still subsisted, however, between Balzac and the Girardins,
as, about the same time that Emile penned this uncompromising epistle, the following note reached
Balzac,[+] the last he ever received from the peace-making Madame de Girardin:

"It is the evening of my last Wednesday. Come, cruel one. Mrs. Norton will be here. Do you
not wish me to have the glory of having presented you to this English 'Corinne'? Emile tells
me that 'La Derniere Incarnation de Vautrin' is admirable. The compositors declare that it
is your chef-d'oeuvre.

"Only till this evening, I implore you.

          "DELPHINE GAY DE GIRARDIN." He was in special difficulties, as he had lately borrowed ten
or fifteen thousand francs from the impecunious Viscontis, giving them
as guarantee some shares in the unfortunate Chemin de Fer du Nord, and
as the railway was a failure, and these shares were a burden instead
of a benefit, Balzac was bound in honour to relieve his friends of
their troublesome possession, and to pay back what he owed them. This
necessity was an additional incentive to action, and Balzac's letters
to Madame Hanska about this time, contain several indications of his
anxiety about "Les Paysans." On June 9th he speaks of his desire to
bring it to a close; and on the 15th he writes that he must certainly
finish it at once, to avoid the lawsuit with which he has been for so
long threatened by La Presse. However, he seems to have experienced
an unconquerable difficulty in its composition, as in that of
"Seraphita," the other book about which he had cherished a peculiarly
lofty ideal. Therefore in July the termination of "Les Paysans" had
not yet reached the office of La Presse, and on the 13th of the
month Balzac received the following letter:[*]

          "PARIS, July 13th, 1847

"'Le Piccinino' will be finished this week. Only seven numbers of 'Les Paysans' are completed
in advance. We are therefore at the mercy of an indisposition, of any chance incident, things
of which it is necessary for me to see the possibility, and to which I must not expose myself.

"Really you high dignitaries of the periodical are insupportable, and you will manage so cleverly
that the periodical will some day fail you completely.

"For my part, my resolution on this matter is taken, and firmly taken, and if I had not a remainder
of the account to work out, I would certainly not publish 'Les Paysans,' as I have not received
the last line.

Balzac's answer to this missive is lost. It must have been despatched at once, and was evidently
not conciliatory, as it was answered on the same day in the following terms:

          "PARIS, July 13th, 1847.

"I only publish 'Les Paysans' because we have an account to settle. Otherwise I certainly should
not publish it, and the success of 'La Derniere Incarnation de Vautrin' would certainly not
impel me to do it.

"Therefore if you are able without inconvenience to pay back to the Presse what it advanced
to you, I will willingly give up 'Les Paysans.' Otherwise I will publish 'Les Paysans,' and
will begin on Monday next, the 19th. But I insist that there shall be no interruption. I count
on this.

          "EMILE DE GIRARDIN."

Girardin's bitter resentment is excusable, when we remember that it was in September, 1844,
nearly three years before, that Balzac had received 9,000 francs in advance for "Les Paysans."
Since then only one number of the promised work had been produced, and the great writer's only
explanation for his long delay in finishing the book was the inadequate one, that Dujarier
had interrupted "Les Paysans" after the first chapters had been published, to be able to begin
Alexandre Dumas' novel "La Reine Margot," before the end of 1844.

In Balzac's reply, written next day, he definitely withdrew "Les Paysans" from publication,
and said that he would pay what he owed La Presse within the space of twenty days, and would
not charge for what had not yet been printed; though it had been written and composed specially
for La Presse, and at the request of the Presse. As to Emile de Girardin's insinuations about
the failure of "La Derniere Incarnation de Vautrin," Balzac remarked that this had been written
for L'Epoque, not for La Presse, and that it had not been necessary for Girardin to purchase
it from the moribund journal, unless he had approved of it. Girardin had hurt him on his tenderest
point when he branded his works as failures. With pride and bitterness in his heart he went
through the accounts with Mr. Rouy, and found that out of the 9,000 francs received from La
Presse, he still owed 5,221 francs 85 centimes. How he raised the money it is impossible to
guess, but on August 5th he paid 2,500 francs, and on September 1st 2,000 more, so that only
721 francs 85 centimes remained of his debt, and he made his preparations to start for Wierzchownia
with his mind at rest.

He heard from Emile de Girardin again, as we shall see later on, but he had seen Madame de
Girardin for the last time. She did not forget him, however, and the news of his death was
so terrible a shock that she fainted away. She died in 1855, and was deeply mourned by her
friends. Theophile Gautier, in his admiring account of her, says that for some years before
her death, she became a prey to depression and discouragement at the conditions surrounding
her. It may have been that her brilliant, exciting life led naturally to a partly physical
reaction, and that she became too tired by the emotions she had gone through, to adapt herself
with buoyancy to the ever variable conditions of existence. At all events she is a refreshing
figure in the midst of much that is unsatisfactory--a woman witty, highly gifted, a queen of
society, who was yet kindly, generous, and absolutely free from literary jealousy.

Before the middle of September when Balzac left for Wierzchownia, we hear once of him again.
He was still dreaming of the theatre as a means of relief from all his embarrassments,[*] and
on a hot day in August, 1847, he went to Bougival, to pay a visit to M. Hostein, the director
of the Theatre Historique, a new theatre which had not yet been opened six months. There, sitting
in the shade on the towing path by the river, he unfolded to the manager his design of writing
a grand historical drama on Peter I. and Catherine of Russia, to be entitled "Pierre et Catherine."
Nothing was written, it was all still in his head; but he at once sketched the first scene
to the manager, and talked with enthusiasm of the enormous success which would be caused by
the novelty of introducing the Russian peasant on the stage. The play could be written very
quickly; and M. Hostein,[+] carried away by Balzac's extraordinarily persuasive eloquence,
already began to reflect about suitable scenery, dresses, and decorations, for the framing
of his masterpiece. However, to his disappointment Balzac returned in a few days, to announce
that there would be some delay in the production of his play, as he wished to study local colouring
on the spot, and was on the point of starting for Russia. He said that when he returned to
Paris in the spring, he would bring M. Hostein a completed play, and with this promise the
manager was obliged to be satisfied.

[*] "Honore de Balzac," by Edmond Bire.

[+] "Historiettes et Souvenirs d'un Homme de Theatre," by M. Hostein.

Balzac was in an enormous hurry to reach Wierzchownia, and set himself with much energy to
the task of finishing the house in the Rue Fortunee. His efforts in this direction were doubtless
the reason that the writing of "Pierre et Catherine" was postponed till the moujik could be
studied in his native land. At last, however, the work of decoration was complete, and his
mother left in charge, with minute directions about the care of his treasures. He had toiled
with breathless haste, and managed after all to start earlier than he had expected. Once on
the journey his northern magnet drew him with ever-increasing strength, and regardless of fatigue,
he travelled for eight days in succession without stoppage or rest, and arrived ten days before
his letter announcing his departure from Paris. The inhabitants of the chateau were naturally
much surprised at his sudden appearance, and Balzac considers that they were touched, or rather--though
he does not say this--that She was touched by his empressement.

He was much delighted with his surroundings. Wierzchownia was a palace, and he was interested
and amused with the novelty of all he saw. He writes: "We have no idea at home of an existence
like this. At Wierzchownia it is necessary to have all the industries in the house: there is
a confectioner, a tailor, and a shoemaker."[*] He was established in a delicious suite of rooms,
consisting of a drawing-room, a study, and a bedroom. The study was in pink stucco, with a
fireplace in which straw was apparently burnt, magnificent hangings, large windows, and convenient
furniture. In this Louvre of a Wierzchownia there were, as Balzac remarks with pleasure, five
or six similar suites for guests. Everything was patriarchal. Nobody was bored in this wonderful
new life. It was fairy-like, the fulfilment of Balzac's dreams of splendour, an approach of
reality to the grandiose blurred visions of his hours of creation. He who rejoiced in what
was huge, delighted in the fact that the Count Georges Mniszech had gone to inspect an estate
as big as the department of Seine-et-Marne, with the object of dismissing a prevaricating bailiff.
It gave him intense satisfaction to record the wonders of this strange new life: to tell those
at home of the biting cold, which rendered his pelisse of Siberian fox of no more protection
than a sheet of blotting-paper; or to mention casually that all the letters were carried by
a Cossack across sixty "verstes" of steppes.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 324.

The Russians were eager to show their admiration of the celebrated French novelist, and Balzac
experienced the truth of the adage, that a prophet is not without honour save in his own country.
On the journey out the officials were charmingly polite to him, and when he went to Kiev to
pay his respects to the Governor-General, and to obtain permission for a lengthy sojourn in
Russia, he was overwhelmed with attentions. A rich moujik had read all his books, burnt a candle
for him every week to St. Nicholas, and had promised a sum of money to the servants of Madame
Hanska's sister, if they could manage that he might see the great man. This atmosphere of adoration
was very pleasant to one whose reward in France for the production of masterpieces, seemed
sometimes to consist solely in condemnation and obloquy. Balzac enjoyed himself for the time,
and rested from his literary labours, except for working at the second part of "L'Envers de
l'Histoire Contemporaine," which is called "L'Initie," and writing the play which he had promised
Hostein as a substitute for "Pierre et Catherine."

His ever-active brain had now evolved a plan for transporting sixty thousand oaks to France,
from a territory on the Russian frontier belonging to Count Georges Mniszech and his father.
He was anxious that M. Surville should undertake the matter, as, after abstruse and careful
calculations--which have the puzzling veneer of practicality always observable in Balzac's
mad schemes--he considered that 1,200,000 francs might be made out of the affair, and that
of course the engineer who arranged the transport would reap some of the benefit. The blocks
of wood would be fifteen inches in diameter at the base, and ten at the top. They would first
be conveyed to Brody, from there by high road to Cracow, and thence they would travel to France
by the railway, which would be finished in a few days. Unfortunately, there were no bridges
at Cologne over the Rhine, or at Magdeburg over the Elbe; but Balzac was not discouraged by
the question of the transshipment of sixty thousand oaks, any more than in his old days in
the Rue Lesdiguieres, he had been deterred from the idea of having a piano, by the attic being
too small for it. M. Surville was to answer categorically, giving a detailed schedule of the
costs of carriage and of duty from Cracow to France; and to this, Balzac would add the price
of transport from Brody to Cracow. He discounted any natural astonishment his correspondent
would feel, at the neglect hitherto of this certain plan for making a fortune, by remarking
that the proprietors were Creoles, who worked their settlements by means of moujiks, so that
the spirit of enterprise was entirely absent.[*] M. Surville, however, received this brilliant
proposition without enthusiasm, and did not even trouble to write himself about the matter,
but sent back an answer by his wife, that the price of transporting the freight from one railway
to another at Breslau, Berlin, Magdeburg, and Cologne, would render the scheme impossible.
Balzac showed unusual docility at this juncture; he was evidently already half-hearted about
the enterprise, and remarked that since his first letter he had himself thought of the objections
pointed out by M. Surville, and had remembered hearing that a forest purchased in Auvergne,
had ruined the buyer, owing to the difficulty of transport.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 321.

Balzac was very happy at Wierzchownia, though the fulfilment of the great desire of his life
seemed still distant. Madame Hanska's hesitation continued: she considered herself indispensable
to her children; besides, owing to the unfortunate state of the Chemin de Fer du Nord, Balzac's
pecuniary affairs would certainly be in an embarrassed condition for the next two years. Living
in the same house with her, seeing her every day, and feeling sure of her affection, and of
a certain happy consummation to his long probation, would not after all have been very painful,
except for one great drawback, which increased continually as time went on; and that was the
terrible effect of the inclement climate on Balzac's health. He had suffered from heart disease
for some years, and in a letter to his sister, he traces its origin to the cruelty of the lady
about whom she knows --possibly Madame de Castries. His abuse of coffee, however, and the unnatural
life which he had led with the object of straining the tension of every power to its uttermost,
and thus of forcing the greatest possible quantity and quality of literary work out of himself,
had done much to ruin his robust constitution. Nevertheless, if he had been able to take up
his abode with his wife in the Rue Fortunee, and to enjoy the freedom from anxiety which her
fortune would have assured to him; if he had been happy with her, and surrounded by his beautiful
things, had at last lived the life for which he had so long yearned, it seems as though several
years at least might have remained to him. The enormous labours of his earlier years would
indeed have been impossible,[*] but "Les Parents Pauvres" had shown that his intellect was
now at its best, and material for many masterpieces was still to be found in that capacious
brain and fertile imagination. However, the rigours of the Russian climate, aided no doubt
by the privations and anxieties Balzac suffered in Paris after the Revolution of 1848, and
by the barbarous treatment which he underwent at the hands of the doctor at Wierzchownia, rendered
his case hopeless; and at this time only one more stone was destined to be laid on the unfinished
edifice of the "Comedie Humaine."

[*] "Balzac, sa Vie, son Oeuvre," by Julien Lemer.

In February, 1848, it was absolutely necessary that Balzac should go to Paris, as money must
at once be found, to meet the calls which the ill-fated Chemin de Fer du Nord was making on
its shareholders. Balzac suffered terribly from cold on the journey, and arrived at the Rue
Fortunee at a most unfortunate time, just before the Revolution of February, 1848.

In consequence of the disturbed state of the political atmosphere, the outlook for literature
was tragic; and Balzac, who was in immediate want of money, found himself in terrible straits.
Living with two servants in his luxurious little house, surrounded by works of art which had
cost thousands of francs, he was almost dying of hunger. His food consisted of boiled beef,
which was cooked and eaten hot once a week, and the remaining six days he subsisted on the
cold remains. It seemed impossible to raise money for his present pressing necessities. He
managed to sell "L'Initie,"[*] at a ridiculously small price, to an ephemeral journal called
Le Spectateur Republicain, but only received in return bills at a long date, and it was doubtful
whether he was ever paid the money due to him.

Nevertheless, whatever effects his privations may have had on his health, they did not subdue
his spirits, as both Lemer and Champfleury,[*] who each spent several hours with him in the
Rue Fortunee, talk of his undiminished vivacity, his hearty fits of laughter, and his confident
plans for the future. Lemer, who had known him before, does indeed remark that he seemed much
aged; but Champfleury, who saw him for the first time, is only struck with his strength, animal
spirits, and keen intelligence. In the midst of the despondent unhealthy tendencies of the
literary talent of his day, he was still, with his joie de vivre, a man apart. Naif, full of
a charming pride, he loved literature "as the Arab loves the wild horse he has found a difficulty
in subduing." Nevertheless, material prosperity, as ever, occupied an important place in the
foreground of his scheme of life, and his mind was still running on the theatre, as the great
means of gaining money. He warned Champfleury not to follow his example, which led after the
production of many books to an existence of deplorable poverty, but to write only three novels
a year, so that ten months annually should be left for making a fortune by working for the
theatre, "car il faut que l'artiste mene une vie splendide."[+]

[*] "Balzac, sa Vie, son Oeuvre," by Julien Lemer.

[+] "Grandes Figures d'Hier et d'Aujourd'hui," by Champfleury.

Schemes still coursed each other through his quick-moving brain. He wished to create an association
of all the great dramatists of the day, who should enrich the French stage with plays composed
in common. He was rather despondent about this, however, as he said that most writers were
cowardly and idle, and he as afraid they would therefore refuse to join his society. Scribe
was the only one who would work; "Mais quelle litterature que 'Les Memoires d'un Colonel de
Hussards!'" he exclaimed in horror.[*] Another plan for becoming colossally rich of which he
talked seriously, was to gain a monopoly of all the arts, and to act as auctioneer to Europe:
to buy the Apollo Belvedere, for instance, let all the nations compete for it against each
other, and then to sell to the highest bidder.

[*] "Notes Historiques sur M. de Balzac," by Champfleury.

He took a gloomy view of the political situation, because, though he had a great admiration
for Lamartine, he feared that the poet would not have sufficient strength of mind, to take
advantage of the great majority he would doubtless have in the next Assemblee Constituante,
and to make himself the chief of a strong government, when he might justify his magnificent
role, by presiding at the accomplishment of the great social and administrative reforms, demanded
by justice, and material, moral, and intellectual progress. In one of his remarks was a touch
of sadness. He told Lemer that, at the present crisis, all authors should sacrifice their writing
for a time, and throw themselves with energy into politics. "Et pour cela il faut etre jeune,"
he added with a sigh; "et moi, je suis vieux!"

However, on March 18th, 1848, a letter written by him appeared in the Constitutionnel, in which
he stated that he would stand as deputy if requested to do so.[*] In consequence, the "Club
de la Fraternite Universelle" wrote to inform him that his name had been put on the list of
candidates for election, and invited him to explain his political views at a meeting of the
Club. In the Constitutionnel of April 19th Balzac answered this request by refusing to go to
the meeting, and at the same time announced that he had no intention of canvassing, and wished
to owe his election solely to votes not asked for, but given voluntarily. He further commented
on the fact that from 1789 to 1848 France had changed its constitution every fifteen years,
and asked if it were not time, "for the honour of our country, to find, to found, a form, an
empire, a durable government; so that our prosperity, our commerce, our arts, which are the
life of our commerce, the credit, the glory, in short, all the fortune of France, shall not
be periodically jeopardised?"

[*] "Honore de Balzac," by Edmond Bire.

Naturally, these uncompromising views did not meet with favour from the "citoyens membres du
Club de la Fraternite Universelle," and Balzac was not elected a member of the Assemblee Nationale.

                              CHAPTER XV

                             1848 - 1849

  Description of interior of house in the Rue Fortunee--"La Maratre"
  --Projected plays--"Le Faiseur"--Balzac seeks admission for the
  last time to the Academie Francaise--He returns to Wierzchownia
  --Failing health--Letters to his family--Family relations are
  strained.

During his stay in Paris, which lasted from February till the end of September, Balzac was
careful not to admit any strangers to the mysterious little house in the Rue Fortunee. Even
his trusted friends were only shown the magnificence of his residence with strict injunctions
about secrecy, so afraid was he that the news of his supposed riches should reach the ears
of his creditors. He was only the humble custodian, he said, of all these treasures. Nothing
belonged to him; he was poorer than ever, and was only taking charge of the house for a friend.
This was difficult to believe, and his acquaintances, who had always been sceptical about his
debts, laughed, and said to his delight, yet annoyance, that he was in reality a millionaire,
and that he kept his fortune in old stockings.

Theophile Gautier, after remarking how difficult it was to gain an entrance to this carefully-guarded
abode, describes it thus: "He received us, however, one day, and we were able to see a dining-room
panelled in old oak, with a table, mantelpiece, buffets, sideboards, and chairs in carved wood,
which would have made a Berruguete, a Cornejo Duque, or a Verbruggen envious; a drawing-room
hung with gold-coloured damask, with doors, cornices, plinths, and embrasures of ebony; a library
ranged in cupboards inlaid with tortoiseshell and copper in the style of Buhl; a bathroom in
yellow breccia, with bas-reliefs in stucco; a domed boudoir, the ancient paintings of which
had been restored by Edmond Hedouin; and a gallery lighted from the top, which we recognised
later in the collection of 'Cousin Pons.' On the shelves were all sorts of curiosities--Saxony
and Sevres porcelain, sea-green horns with cracked glazing; and on the staircase which was
covered with carpet, were great china vases, and a magnificent lantern suspended by a cable
of red silk."[*]

[*] "Portraits Contemporains: Honore de Balzac," by Theophile Gautier.

The gallery, the holy of holies of this temple of Art, where the treasures laboriously collected
and long concealed, were at last assembled, is described exactly in "Le Cousin Pons." It was
a large oblong room, lighted from the top, the walls painted in white and gold, but "the white
yellowed, the gold reddened by time, gave harmonious tones which did not spoil the effect of
the canvases."[*]

[*] "Le Cousin Pons," by Honore de Balzac.

There were fourteen statues in this gallery mounted on Buhl pedestals, and all round the walls
were richly decorated ebony buffets containing objets d'art, while in the centre stood carved
wooden cases, which showed to great advantage some of the greatest rarities in human work --costly
jewellery, and curiosities in ivory, bronze, wood, and enamel. Sixty-seven pictures adorned
the walls of this magnificent apartment, among them the four masterpieces, the loss of which
is the most tragic incident in the melancholy story of poor old Pons. There were a "Chevalier
de Malte en Priere," by Sebastian del Piombo; a "Holy Family," by Fra Bartolommeo; a "Landscape,"
by Hobbema; and a "Portrait of a Woman," by Albert Durer. Apparently they were in reality mediocre
as works of art, but they were a source of the utmost pride and delight to their owner, who
said enthusiastically of one of them--the Sebastian del Piombo--that "human art can go no further."
When we know that in the novel Balzac is speaking of his own cherished possessions, we think
of his own words, "Ideas project themselves with the same force by which they are conceived,"[*]
and can understand the reason of the positive pain we feel, when the poor old Cousin Pons is
bereft of his treasures. The great voyant was transported by his powerful imagination into
the personality of the old musician, and the heartrending situation he had evoked must have
been torture to him; though with the courage and conscientiousness of the true artist he did
not hesitate in the task he had set himself, but ever darkened and deepened the shadows of
his tragedy towards the close.

[*] "Le Pere Goriot," by Honore de Balzac.

It is not surprising to hear that this sumptuous house cost 400,000 francs, but it is astonishing,
and it gives the inhabitant of steady-going England an idea of the inconvenience of revolutions,
that its owner and occupant should in 1848 have been starving in the midst of magnificence,
and that it should have been impossible for him to find a purchaser for some small curiosity,
if he had wished to sell it to buy bread. Part of the cost of the house had been defrayed by
Madame Hanska, but Balzac had evidently overstepped her limits, and had involved himself seriously
in debt. One of the alleged reasons given by the lady for the further deferment of her promise
to become Madame Honore de Balzac, was the state of embarrassment to which Balzac had reduced
himself by his expenditure in decoration; and, in his despair and disgust, the home he had
been so happily proud of, and which seemed destined never to be occupied, soon became to him
"that rascally plum box."

At this time, however, he was still tasting the joys of ownership, and was, as usual, hopeful
about the future. His dreams of theatrical success seemed at last destined to come true.[*]
Hostein, who had rushed to the Rue Fortunee as soon as he heard of the arrival of the great
man, to ask for the play promised him in place of "Pierre et Catherine," found Balzac as usual
at his desk, and was presented with a copy-book on which was written in large characters, "Gertrude,
tragedie bourgeoise." The play was read next day in Balzac's drawing-room to Hostein, Madame
Dorval, and Melingue; and Hostein accepted it under the name of "La Maratre," Madame Dorval
expressing much objection to its first title. Eventually, to Madame Dorval's and Balzac's disappointment,
Madame Lacressoniere, who had much influence with Hostein, was entrusted with the heroine's
part; and the tragedy was produced at the Theatre-Historique on May 25th, 1848. In spite of
the disturbed state of the political atmosphere, which was ruinous to the theatres, the play
met with considerable success; and the critics began to realise that when once Balzac had mastered
the metier of the theatre, he might become a great dramatist. About this time, Cogniard, the
director of the Porte-Saint-Martin, received a letter with fifty signatures, asking for a second
performance of "Vautrin." He communicated this request to Balzac, who stipulated that if "Vautrin"
were again put on the stage, all caricature of Louis Philippe should be avoided by the actor
who played the principal part. He added that when he wrote the play he had never intended any
political allusion. However, "Vautrin" was not acted till April, 1850, when, without Balzac's
knowledge, it was produced at the Gaite. Balzac, who heard of this at Dresden, on his journey
to Paris from Russia, wrote to complain of the violation of his dramatic rights, and in consequence
the play was withdrawn from the boards of the Gaite.

[*] "Honore de Balzac," by Edmond Bire.

During his stay in Paris in 1848, Balzac sketched out the plots of many dramas. The director
of the Odeon, in despair at the emptiness of his theatre after the political crisis of June,
offered Victor Hugo, Dumas, and Balzac[*] a premium of 6,000 francs, and a royalty on all receipts
exceeding 4,000 francs, if they would produce a play for his theatre; and in response to this
offer Balzac promised "Richard Sauvage," which he never wrote. The manager of the Theatre Francais,
M. Lockroy, also made overtures to the hitherto despised dramatist; and Balzac thought of providing
him with a comedy entitled "Les Petits Bourgeois," but abandoned the idea. "Is it," he wrote
to Hippolyte Rolle, "the day after a battle when the bourgeoisie have so generously shed their
blood for menaced civilisation; is it at the time when they are in mourning, that they should
be represented on the stage?"[+]

[*] "Honore de Balzac," by Edmond Bire.

[+] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 332.

At this time, however, Balzac had in his portfolio a play quite ready to be acted--one which
had several times changed its title, being called by its author successively "Mercadet," "Le
Speculateur," and "Le Faiseur." It was read and accepted by the Comedie Francaise on August
17th, 1848, under the name of "Le Faiseur"; and when Balzac returned to Russia at the end of
September, he asked his friend Laurent-Jan to take charge of the comedy during his absence.
Evidently he heard that matters were not going very smoothly, as in December he wrote to Laurent-Jan
from Wierzchownia to say that if the Comedie Francaise refused "Mercadet"--which had been "recue
a l'unanimite" on August 17th--it might be offered to Frederick Lemaitre; and a few days later,
hearing that the piece was "recue seulement a corrections," by the Comedie Francaise, he withdrew
it altogether. "Le Faiseur" or "Mercadet" was then offered to the Theatre Historique, and Balzac
already saw in imagination his sister and his two nieces attending the first night's performance,
decked out in their most elegant toilettes. As he was in Russia, and his mother did not go
to the theatre, they would be the sole representatives of the family; and Hostein must therefore
provide them with one of the best boxes in the theatre. If there were hissings and murmurings,
as Balzac expected from past experiences, his younger niece Valentine would be indignant; but
Sophie would still preserve her dignity, "and you, my dear sister. . . . But what can a box
do against a theatre?"

Nevertheless, though Hostein accepted "Le Faiseur," he announced that his clients preferred
melodrama to comedy, and that, in order to fit it for his "theatre de boulevard," the play
would require modifications which would completely change its character. Balzac naturally objected
to these proposed alterations, as they sounded infinitely more sweeping than the "corrections"
of the Comedie Francaise, and the play was never acted during his life. On August 23rd, 1851,
however, as we have already seen, "Mercadet le Faiseur," with certain modifications made by
M. Dennery, and also with omissions --for the play as Balzac originally wrote it was too long
for the theatre--was received with tremendous acclamations at the Gymnase; and on October 22nd,
1868, it was acted at the Comedie Francaise, and again in 1879 and in 1890.

Mercadet, first played by Geoffroy, who conceived Balzac's creation admirably, and at the Comedie
Francaise less successfully by Got, is a second Figaro, with a strong likeness to Balzac himself.
He is continually on the stage, and keeps the audience uninterruptedly amused by his wit, good-humour,
hearty bursts of laughter, and ceaseless expedients for baffling his creditors. The action
of the play is simple and natural, and the dialogue scintillates with bon mots, gaiety, and
amusing sallies. The play had been conceived and even written in 1839 or 1840, and never did
Balzac's imperishable youth shine out more brilliantly than in its execution. It is curious
to notice that his innate sense of power as a dramatist, which never deserted him, even when
he seemed to have found his line in quite a different direction, was in the end amply justified.

His vivacity and hopefulness never forsook him for long. Even in his terrible state of health
in 1849, and in spite of his disappointment at the non-appearance of "Le Faiseur," he was in
buoyant spirits, and informed his sister in one of his letters, that he was sending a comedy,
"Le Roi des Mendiants," to Laurent-Jan, as soon as he could manage to transport it to St. Petersburg.
There, the French Ambassador would be entrusted with the charge of despatching it to Paris,
as manuscripts were not allowed to travel by post.[*] About three weeks later,[+] he wrote
to ask his mother to tell Madame Dorval that he was preparing another play, with a great role
in it designed specially for her. However, owing to Balzac's failing health the drama never
took form, and Madame Dorval died on April 20th, 1849, about three weeks after his letter was
despatched.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 393.

[+] "Correspondance," vol. ii, p. 397.

At the time of his stay in the Rue Fortunee in 1848, he was, however, satisfied about "Mercadet,"
which had, as we have seen, been accepted by the Comedie Francaise; and the production of which
would help, he doubtless hoped, to relieve him from his monetary difficulties. Ready money
was an ever-pressing necessity. Emile de Girardin, in his political activity during the Revolution
of 1848, had not forgotten his personal resentments, and soon after Balzac's arrival in Paris
he requested him to pay at once the 721 francs 85 centimes which he still owed La Presse.[*]
This Balzac could not possibly do, and most probably he forgot all about the matter. Not so
his antagonist, who on October 7th, 1848, after Balzac had returned to Russia, demanded immediate
payment; and four days afterwards applied to the Tribunal of the Seine for an order that the
debt should be paid from the future receipts of "Le Faiseur," which was at that time in rehearsal
at the Theatre Francais. This demand was granted, but as after all the play was withdrawn,
Emile de Girardin did not receive his money. However, he was paid in the end, as he wrote Balzac
a receipt dated December 30th, 1848, for 757 francs 75 centimes, a sum which included legal
expenses as well as the original debt.

There were to be two elections to the Academie Francaise in January, 1849, as M. Chateaubriand's
and M. Vatout's armchairs were both vacant; and Balzac determined again to try his fortune.
He wrote the required letter before his departure to Russia, and this was read at a meeting
of the illustrious Forty on October 5th, 1848.[*] Apparently, Balzac's absence from France,
which prevented him from paying the prescribed visits, militated against his chances of success,
as his ardent supporter, M. Vacquerie, wrote in L'Evenement of January 9th, 1849: "Balzac is
now in Russia. How can he be expected to pay visits? He will not become a member of the Academie
because he has not been in Paris? And when posterity says, 'He wrote "Splendeurs et Miseres
des Courtisanes," "Le Pere Goriot," "Les Parents Pauvres," and "Les Treize,"' the Academie
will answer: 'Yes, but he went on a journey.'"

[*] "Honore de Balzac," by Edmond Bire.

At the first election, which took place on January 11, 1849, the Duc de Noailles was at the
head of the list, with twenty-five papers in his favour, and Balzac received two; at the second,
on January 18th, when M. de Saint-Priest was the successful candidate, two members of the Academy
again voted for Balzac at the first round of the ballot, but at the third and deciding round
his name was not included at all. Balzac wrote to Laurent-Jan to ask for the names of his supporters,
as he wished to thank them; and about the same time, in a letter to his brother-in-law, M.
Surville, he let it be understood that he would never again present himself as a candidate
for admission to the Academie Francaise, as he intended to put that body in the wrong.

This is anticipation; we must return to the end of September, 1848, when Balzac, after having
arranged the necessary business matters, hurried back to Madame Hanska. For the better guardianship
of his treasures, he left his mother with two servants installed in the Rue Fortunee, and he
expected to return to Paris by the beginning of 1849. His family did not hear from him for
more than a month after his arrival, when his mother received a letter full, as usual, of directions
and commissions, but giving no news of his own doings. He was evidently ill at the time he
wrote, and a few days afterwards was seized with acute bronchitis, and was obliged to put off
his projected return to Paris.

Balzac's health all through the winter was deplorable, and under the direction of the doctor
at Wierzchownia, he went through a course of treatment for his heart and lungs. This doctor
was a pupil of the famous Franck, the original of Benassis in the "Medecin de Campagne," and
Balzac appears to have had complete faith in him, and to have been much impressed by his dictum,
that French physicians, though the first in the world for diagnosis, were quite ignorant of
curative methods. Balzac's passion at this time for everything Russian, must have been peculiarly
trying to his family. It surely seemed to them madness that he should separate himself from
his country, should gradually see less and less of his friends, and should show an inclination
to be ashamed of his relations, for the sake of a woman crippled with rheumatism, and no longer
young, who, however passionately she may have loved him in the past, seemed now to have grown
tired of him. Sophie and Valentine Surville were no doubt delighted to receive magnificent
silk wraps from their uncle, trimmed with Russian fur; but the letter accompanying the gift
must, we think, have rather spoiled their pleasure, or at any rate was likely to have hurt
their mother's feelings. It was surely hardly necessary to inform "ma pauvre Sophie" that it
was in vain for her to compete with the Countess Georges in proficiency on the piano, as the
latter had "the genius of music, as of love"; and a long string of that wonderful young lady's
perfections must have been rather wearying to those who had not the felicity of being acquainted
with her. Apparently the young Countess possessed deep knowledge without pedantry, and was
of delicious naivete, laughing like a little child; though this did not prevent her from showing
religious enthusiasm about beautiful things. Further, she was of angelic goodness, intensely
observant, yet extremely discreet, most respectful to her adored mother, very industrious,
and she lived only for duty. "All these advantages are set off by a proud air, full of good
breeding, an air of ease and grandeur which is not possessed by every queen, and which is quite
lost in France, where every one wishes to be equal. This outward distinction, this look of
being a great lady, is one of the most precious gifts which God, the God of women, can bestow
on them."[*] To paint her character aright, Balzac says, it would be necessary to blend in
one word virtues which a moralist would consider it impossible to find united in a single human
being; and her "sublime education" was a crown to the whole edifice of her perfections.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 345.

The only consolation which an impartial though possibly unprincipled observer, might have offered
at this point to the unfortunate Sophie and Valentine, would be the fact that the young Countess
was evidently extremely plain, as even Balzac's partiality only allows him to say: "Physically
she possesses grace, which is more beautiful even than beauty, and this triumphs over a complexion
which is still brown (she is hardly sixteen years old), and over a nose which, though well
cut, is only charming in the profile."

Let us hope, however, that our pity is after all wasted on the nieces, and that in their joy
at the idea of receiving handsome presents, they either skipped the unwelcome portions of their
distinguished uncle's letter, or that, knowing the cause of his raptures, if they did read,
they laughed and understood.

His Polar Star is seldom mentioned by name in Balzac's letters; she is generally "the person
with whom I am staying," and he says little about her, except that she is very much distressed
at the amount of his debts, and that the great happiness of his life is constantly deferred.
Two fires had taken place on the estate, and the Countess was in addition burdened with three
lawsuits: one about some property which should have come to her from an uncle, and about which
it would be necessary for her to go to St. Petersburg. Balzac's letters as usual abound in
allusions to his monetary difficulties, while the Survilles had been almost ruined by the Revolution
of 1848, so that the outlook for the family was black on all sides.

All this time Balzac's relations were becoming more and more discontented with his doings,
as well as with the general aspect of his affairs. Honore was evidently pursuing a chimera,
and because of his illusions, many burdens were imposed on them. Madame de Balzac the principal
sufferer, was tired of acting as custodian at the Rue Fortunee, where she was expected to teach
Francois how to clean the lamps, and received careful instructions about wrapping the gilt
bronzes in cotton rags. It seemed as though her son were permanently swallowed up by that terrible
Russia, about which, as he remarked impatiently, she would never understand anything; and she
longed to retire to her little lodgings at Suresnes, and to do as she pleased. Laure, too,
had her grievances, though possibly she kept them to herself and strove to act as peacemaker.
She and her family were in terrible monetary straits, and the sight of the costly house, which
seemed destined never to be occupied, must have been slightly exasperating. She was quite willing
to be useful to Honore, and did not mind when troublesome commissions were entrusted to her;
but it was no doubt galling to notice that--though her daughters were expected to write continually,
and were supposed to be amply rewarded for their labours, by hearing of the delight with which
the young Countess listened to their letters--a strong motive lurking behind Balzac's anxiety
to hear often from his family, was the desire to impress Madame Hanska favourably with the
idea of their affection for himself, and their unity. At the same time, a sad presentiment
warned her, that if ever her brother were married to this great lady, his family and friends
would see little more of him. The prospect cannot have been very cheerful to poor Laure, as
either Honore would return to France brokenhearted and overwhelmed with debt, or he would gain
his heart's desire, and would be lost to his family.

The tone of Balzac's letters to his relations at this time has been adversely criticised, and
it is true that the reader is sometimes irritated by the frequency of his requests for service
from them, and his continual insistence on the wonderful perfections of the Hanski family,
and their grandeur and importance. Occasionally, too, his letters show an irritability which
is a new feature in his character. We must remember, however, in judging Balzac, that he was
nearly driven wild by the position in which he found himself. It was necessary that he should
always be bright, good-natured, and agreeable to the party at Wierzchownia, and his letters
to his family were therefore the only safety-valve for the impatience and despair, which, though
he never utters a word of reproach against Madame Hanska, must sometimes have taken possession
of him.

His was a terrible dilemma. Ill and suffering, so that he was not able to work to diminish
his load of debt, desperately in love with a cold-hearted woman, who used these debts as a
lever for postponing what on her side was certainly an undesirable marriage; and enormously
proud, so that failure in his hopes would mean to him not only a broken heart, but also almost
unbearable mortification; Balzac, crippled and handicapped, with his teeth set hard, his powers
concentrated on one point, that of winning Madame Hanska, was at times hardly master of himself.
There was indeed some excuse for his irritation, when his family wrote something tactless,
or involved themselves in fresh misfortunes, just as matters perhaps seemed progressing a little
less unfavourably than usual. Their letters were always read aloud at the lunch table at Wierzchownia,
and often, alas! their perusal served to prove anew to Madame Hanska, the mistake she had made
in contemplating an alliance with a member of a family so peculiarly unlucky and undesirable.

At last the smouldering indignation between Balzac and his relations burst into a flame. The
immediate cause of ignition was a letter from Madame de Balzac, complaining that Honore had
not written sufficiently often to her; and further, that he did not answer his nieces' epistles.
These reproaches were received with much indignation, as Balzac remarked in his answer, which
was dated February, 1849, that he had written seven times to his mother since his return to
Wierzchownia in September, and that he did not like to send letters continually, because they
were franked by his hosts. He goes on to say rather sadly, that it will not do for him to trespass
on the hospitality offered him, because, though he has been royally and magnificently received,
he has still no rights but those of a guest. On the subject of his neglect to write to his
nieces, he is very angry, and cries in an outburst of irritability: "It seems strange to you
that I do not write to my nieces. It is you, their grandmother, who have such ideas on family
etiquette! You consider that your son, fifty years old, is obliged to write to his nieces!
My nieces ought to feel very much honoured and very happy when I address a few words to them;
certainly their letters are nice, and always give me pleasure."[*] A postscript to the letter
contains the words: "Leave the house in the Rue Fortunee as little as possible, I beg you,
because, though Francois is good and faithful, he is not very clever, and may easily do stupid
things."

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 373.

Balzac followed this with another letter, which apparently impressed on his mother that to
please the Wierzchownia family she must behave very well to him; and this communication naturally
annoyed Madame de Balzac even more than the preceding one.

In reply, she wrote a severe reprimand to her son, in which she addressed him as "vous," and
remarked that her affection in future would depend on his conduct. In fact, as Balzac wrote
hotly to Laure, it was the letter of a mother scolding a small boy, and he was fifty years
old! Unfortunately, too, it arrived during the dejeuner, and Balzac cried impulsively, "My
mother is angry with me!" and then was forced to read the letter to the party assembled. It
made a very bad impression, as it showed that either he was a bad son, or his mother an extremely
difficult person to get on with. Fate had chosen an unfavourable moment for the arrival of
this missive, which, later on, when her wrath had abated, Madame de Balzac announced that she
had written partly in jest. Balzac had at last been allowed to write to St. Petersburg, to
beg the Czar's permission for his marriage with Madame Hanska, and this had been very decidedly
refused. Madame Hanska was not at this time prepared to hand over her capital to her daughter,
and thus to take the only step, which would have induced her Sovereign to authorise her to
leave his dominions. She therefore talked of breaking off the engagement, and of sending Balzac
to Paris, to sell everything in the Rue Fortunee. She was tired of struggling; and in Russia
she was rich, honoured, and comfortable, whereas she trembled to think of the troublous life
which awaited her as Madame Honore de Balzac. Madame de Balzac's letter further strengthened
her resolve. Apparently, in addition to evidence about family dissensions, it contained disquieting
revelations about the discreditable Henri, and the necessity for supporting the Montzaigle
grandchildren; and the veil with which Balzac had striven to soften the aspect of the family
skeletons was violently withdrawn. He was in despair. At this juncture his mother's communication
was fatal! She had done irreparable mischief!

The long letter he wrote to Madame Surville,[*] imploring her to act as peacemaker, and insisting
on the benefits which his marriage would bring to the whole family, would be comical were it
not for the writer's real trouble and anxiety; and the reader's knowledge that, underlying
the common-sense worldly arguments--which were brought forward in the hope of inducing his
family to help him by all the means in their power--was real romantic love for the woman who
had now been his ideal for sixteen years.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 378.

He put the case to Madame Surville as if it were her own, and asked what her course would be
if she were rich, and Sophie an heiress with many suitors. Sophie, according to her uncle's
hypothesis, was in love with a young sculptor; and her parents had permitted an engagement
between the two. The sculptor, however, came to live in the same house with his fiancee, and
his family wrote him letters which he showed to Madame Surville, containing damaging revelations
about family matters. As a culminating indiscretion, his mother wrote to this sculptor, "who
is David, or Pradier, or Ingres," a letter in which she treated him like a street boy. What
would Laure do in these circumstances? Balzac asks. Would she not in disgust dismiss the sculptor,
and choose a more eligible parti for Sophie? "Unsatisfactory marriages," he remarks sagely,
"are easily made; but satisfactory ones require infinite precautions and scrupulous attention,
or one does not get married; and I am at present most likely to remain a bachelor."[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 328.

He appeals to Madame Surville's self-interest. "Reflect on the fact, my dear Laure, that not
one of us can be said to have arrived at our goal, and that if, instead of being obliged to
work in order to live, I were to become the husband of a most intellectual, well born and highly
connected woman, with a solid though small fortune--in spite of this woman's desire to remain
in her own country and to make no new relations, even family ones--I should be in a much more
favourable position to be useful to you all. I know that Madame Hanska would show kindness
to and feel keen interest in your dear little ones."

Surely, he says, it will be an advantage to the whole family, when he has a salon presided
over by a beautiful, clever woman, imposing as a queen, where he can assemble the elite of
Parisian society. He does not wish to be tyrannical or overbearing with his family, but he
informs them that it will be of no use to place themselves in opposition to such a woman. He
warns them that she and her children will never forgive those who blame him to them. Further
on in his lengthy epistle, he gives instructions in deportment, and tells his relations that
in their intercourse with Madame Hanska they must not show servility, haughtiness, sensitiveness,
or obsequiousness; but must be natural, simple, and affectionate. It was no wonder that the
Balzac family disliked Madame Hanska! And the poor woman cannot be considered responsible for
the feeling evoked!

Towards the end of his letter, however, the reader forgives Balzac, and realises that the cry
of a desperate man, ill and suffering, yet still clinging with determined strength to the hope
which means everything to him, must not be criticised minutely. "Once everything is lost, I
shall live no longer; I shall content myself with a garret like that of the Rue Lesdiguieres,
and shall only spend a hundred francs a month. My heart, soul, and ambition will be satisfied
with nothing but the object I have pursued for sixteen years: if this immense happiness escapes
me, I shall no longer want anything, and shall refuse everything!"

                             CHAPTER XVI

                             1849 - 1850

  Peace renewed between Balzac and his family--He thinks of old
  friends--Madame Hanska's continued vacillations--Dr. Knothe's
  treatment--Madame Hanska's relations with Balzac, and her
  ignorance about his illness--Visit to Kiev--Balzac's marriage
  --His letters to his mother, sister, and to Madame Carraud
  --Delay in starting for France--Terrible journey--Madame Honore
  de Balzac's pearl necklace and strange letter--Balzac's married
  life--Arrival of the newly-married couple in Paris.

The quarrel between Balzac and his family was quickly made up, and it was settled that his
mother should--if she wished to do so--return at once to Suresnes; and come up every day to
the Rue Fortunee, taking carriages for this purpose at Balzac's expense. However, having made
a small commotion, and asserted her dignity by the announcement that she felt perfectly free
to leave the Rue Fortunee whenever she chose to do so, Madame de Balzac's resentment was satisfied;
and she remained there till a month before Balzac's return in May, 1850, when illness necessitated
her removal to her daughter's house.[*] The nieces, of whom Balzac was really extremely fond,
"sulked" no longer, but wrote letters which their uncle praised highly, and which he answered
gaily and amusingly.

[+] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 420.

It is curious to notice that Balzac's thoughts now turned to those faithful friends of his
youth, who had in late years passed rather into the background of his life. He wrote a long
letter to Madame Delannoy, who had been a mother to him in the struggling days of his half-starved
youth. He had paid off the debt he owed her, but he said he would never be able to thank her
adequately for her tenderness and goodness to him. He thought also of Dablin, his early benefactor;
and he remembered the old days at Frapesle, and wrote Madame Carraud a most affectionate letter,
sending messages of remembrance to Borget and to the Commandant Carraud, and inquiring about
his old acquaintance Periollas. The Carrauds, like others in those revolutionary days, had
lost money; and Balzac explained that though owing to his illness he had been forbidden to
write, he felt obliged to disobey his doctor's commands, that Madame Carraud should not believe
that true friends can ever fail each other in trouble. He says: "I have never ceased thinking
about you, loving you, talking of you, even here, where they have known Borget since 1833.
. . . How different life is from the height of fifty years, and how far we are often from our
hopes! . . . How many objects, how many illusions have been thrown overboard! and except for
the affection which continues to grow, I have advanced in nothing!"[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 422.

The annals of this last year of Balzac's life, are a record of constantly disappointed hope
and of physical suffering. One after another he was forced to give up his many plans, and to
remain in suffering inaction. He had intended to go to Kiev to present himself to the Governor-General,
but this expedition was put off from month to month owing to his ill health. A visit to Moscow
on his way back to Paris, was another project which had to be abandoned, as he was never well
enough to make his proposed visit to France till he took his last painful and difficult journey
in April, 1850, and sight-seeing was then impossible. His hopefulness, however, never left
him, and his projected enterprises, whether they took the shape of writings or of travels,
were in his eyes only deferred, never definitely relinquished. The wearing uncertainty about
Madame Hanska's intentions was the one condition of his life which continued always, if continuance
can be considered applicable to anything so variable as that lady's moods. In April, 1849,
Balzac wrote to his sister: "No one knows what the year 1847, and February, 1848, and above
all the doubt as to what my fate will be, have cost me!"[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 392.

Sometimes, Madame Hanska, cruelly regardless of the agony she caused the sick man by her heedless
words, would threaten to break off the engagement altogether. On other occasions, Balzac would
write to his family to say that, for reasons which he was unable to give in his letters, the
question of the marriage was postponed indefinitely; and once he made the resolution that he
would not leave Wierzchownia till the affair was settled in one way or another. In a crisis
of his terrible malady he wrote: "Whatever happens, I shall come back in August. One must die
at one's post. . . . How can I offer a life as broken as mine! I must make my situation clear
to the incomparable friend who for sixteen years has shone on my life like a beneficent star."[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 401.

The relations between Balzac and Madame Hanska at this time are mysterious. He shows his usual
caution in his letters to his family, and the reader is conscious that much was passing at
Wierzchownia, on which Balzac is absolutely silent, and that many events that he does record
are carefully arranged with the intention of conveying certain impressions to his hearers.
One of his motives is clear. He was nervously afraid that gossip about his secret engagement,
and possibly approaching marriage, should be spread abroad prematurely; and that the report
might either frighten Madame Hanska into dismissing him altogether, or might reach the ears
of her relations, and cause them to remonstrate with her anew on the folly of her proceedings.

Other discrepancies are puzzling. All through 1849 Balzac, as we have seen, was very ill. He
was suffering from aneurism of the heart, a complaint which the two doctors Knothe told him
they could cure. With perfect faith in their powers, Balzac wrote to his sister expressing
regret that, owing to the ignorance of the French doctors Soulie had been allowed to die of
this malady, when he might have been saved if Dr. Knothe's treatment had been followed. The
younger doctor, however, soon gave up Balzac's case as hopeless; but the father, who was very
intimate with the Wierzchownia family, always expressed himself confidently about his patient's
ultimate recovery; and Balzac wrote: "What gratitude I owe to this doctor! He loves violins:
when once I am at Paris I must find a Stradivarius to present to him."[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 404.

Dr. Knothe's principal prescription was pure lemon juice. This was to be taken twice a day,
to purify and quicken the circulation of the blood in the veins, and to re-establish the equilibrium
between it and the arterial blood. Either as a consequence of this treatment, or in the natural
course of the illness, a terrible crisis took place in June, 1849, during which Balzac's sufferings
were intense; and for twenty-five hours the doctor never left him. After this he was better
for a time, and though his eyesight had become so weak that he was unable to read at night,
he could walk, go upstairs, and lie flat in bed. In October he was seized with what he called
Moldavian fever, a disease which came, he said, from the swamps of the Danube, and ravaged
the Odessa district and the steppes; and again he became dangerously ill. In January, 1850,
the fever was followed by a terrible cold in his lungs, and he was obliged to remain for ten
days in bed. However, he was cheered by the society of Madame Hanska and Madame Georges Mniszech,
who showed "adorable goodness" in keeping him company during his imprisonment.

After hearing all this, it is startling to read in a letter from Madame Honore de Balzac to
her daughter written from Frankfort on May 16th, 1850,[*] that it is awkward that she should
know nothing of the regimen to which Balzac has been subjected by Dr. Knothe; because when
they arrive in Paris, his own doctor is certain to ask for particulars! The most indifferent
hostess could not fail, one would think, to interest herself sufficiently about the welfare
of the solitary and expatriated guest under her roof, to consult with the doctor about him
when he was dangerously ill. More especially would she feel responsibility, when it was owing
to her own action that the patient was cut off from all other advice, except that of a medical
man who was her peculiar protege. He would thus be completely in her charge; and she would
naturally be nervously anxious, for her own comfort and satisfaction, to acquaint herself with
the course of the malady, and with the treatment used to subdue it. If we add to these considerations
the fact that the sufferer was not a mere acquaintance, was not even only a great friend; but
was the man who loved her, the man whose wife she had promised to become, Madame Hanska's ignorance
appears totally inexplicable.

[*] Unpublished letter in the possession of the Vicomte de Spoelberch
    de Lovenjoul.

We must remember, however, that we only have Balzac's account of his illness, and of his interviews
with the doctor; and that the malady being heart disease, it is possible that Dr. Knothe considered
it his duty to deceive his patient--possible therefore that Madame Hanska knew before her marriage
that Balzac was a dying man, and that the doctor's prescriptions were useless.

Owing to the burning of her letters, we have only Balzac's enthusiastic and lover-like descriptions
to guide our idea of Madame Hanska; and she remains to some extent a shadowy figure, difficult
to realise. Several characteristics, however, stand out clearly: among them her power of hiding
her thoughts and feelings from those to whom she was most deeply attached; also an occasional
self-control, which seems strangely at variance with her naturally passionate and uncontrolled
nature. She was extremely proud; and the wish, while pleasing herself, to do nothing which
would lower her in the eyes of the world, exercised a powerful influence over her actions.
Intellectually brilliant, a clever woman of business, and mentally active; she was yet on some
occasions curiously inert, and carried the state of mind embodied in the words "live and let
live," to dangerous lengths. She must have possessed great determination, as even Balzac's
adoration, and his undoubted powers of fascination, could not move her from the vacillations
which, designedly or no, kept him enchained at her feet while she remained free.

Among much however, in her character that we cannot admire, she possessed one virtue in perfection--that
of maternal love. The bond of affection between the mother and her daughter Anna was strong
and enduring, and Madame Hanska would willingly have sacrificed everything for her beloved
child's happiness. This was the true, engrossing love of her life; her affection for Balzac
not having remained in its first freshness, as his love for her had done. On the contrary,
it was at this time slightly withered, and had been partially stifled by prudential considerations,
so that it was difficult to discover among the varied and tangled growths which surrounded it.

It is an interesting problem whether Balzac, in spite of his brave words, realised that Madame
Hanska no longer cared for him. When he wrote that he was sure that none of these deferments
proceeded from want of love, did he pen these words with a wistful attempt to prove to himself
that the fact was as he stated? After eighteen months in the same house with Madame Hanska,
could he really believe that only material difficulties kept her apart from him? Or did he
at last understand: and though stricken to death, cling still, for the sake of his pride and
his lost illusions, to what had been for so long his one object in life? We do not know.

The only thing of which we are certain is, that if the fact of Madame Hanska's indifference
had slowly and painfully dawned upon Balzac, he would never have told, and would have used
words to hide his knowledge.

On the other hand, there is sometimes a ring of truth about his words, which seem to prove
that he had not yet tasted the full bitterness of the tragedy of his life. On November 29th,
1849, he wrote to Madame Surville[*]: "It is the recompense of your life to possess two such
children; you must not be unjust to fate; you ought to be willing to accept many misfortunes.
The case is the same with me and Madame Hanska. The gift of her affection accounts to me for
all my troubles, my worries, and my terrible labours. I have been paying in advance for the
price of this treasure: as Napoleon says, everything is paid for here, nothing is stolen. I
seem, indeed, to have paid very little. Twenty-five years of work and struggle are nothing
compared to a love so splendid, so radiant, so complete. I have been fourteen months in a desert,
for it is a desert; and it seems to me that they have passed like a dream, without an hour's
weariness, without a single dispute; and that after five years to travel together, and sixteen
years of intimate acquaintance, our only troubles have been caused by the state of our health
and by business matters."

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 426.

When he wrote these words, Balzac must have at last felt tolerably confident about a happy
solution to his troubles. However, in a later letter to his mother, he says that the Wierzchownia
party are going to Kiev for the great Fair, that he will avail himself of this occasion for
the renewal of his passport, and that he will not know till he arrives there, whether the great
event will at last take place. In any case, he will start for France directly after the party
return to Wierzchownia in the beginning of February; and as caution is still highly important,
his mother must judge from his directions about the Rue Fortunee, whether he is coming back
alone, or is bringing his bride with him. She is, in any case, not to be sparing about fires
in the library and the picture gallery; and can write to him at Berlin, and at Frankfort, on
his way home.

The great Fair at Kiev, which was called the "Foire des Contrats," was a notable occasion for
gaiety; and extensive preparations were made beforehand for the enjoyment of a thoroughly festive
time. A house was hired by Madame Hanska and the Mniszechs, and furniture, carriages, and servants,
were despatched in advance. The weather, however, was an important consideration; and on this
occasion, owing to the inclemency of the season, the roads were unfortunately impassable, so
that the pleasure trip had to be deferred from the middle till the end of February. This was
no doubt a sad disappointment to the Countess Anna, who thereby missed much enjoyment, and
the delay must have caused intense irritation to the impatient Balzac, but Madame Hanska's
feelings on the subject remain, as usual, enigmatical.

When the Wierzchownia party at last arrived at Kiev, Madame Georges Mniszech found plenty of
gaiety awaiting her, and enjoyed herself immensely, going out to balls in costumes of regal
magnificence. Her partners were often very rough, and on one occasion Balzac relates that a
handkerchief belonging to the young Countess, which had cost more than 500 francs, was torn
to pieces in a figure of the mazurka, in which men contend for the dancer's handkerchief. However,
"La mere adorable" at once repaired the deficiency in her daughter's trousseau by presenting
her with one of the best of her own, "twice as nice, with only linen enough to blow one's nose
on, all the rest being English point lace."

Balzac was unable to be present at any of these festivities, as the journey to Kiev had caused
him acute suffering; and two days after his arrival, while he was paying his State visits to
the authorities,[*] he caught the most violent cold he had ever had, and spent the time of
his stay at Kiev in his bedroom, where his only pleasure was to see the Countess Anna before
she started for her parties, and to admire her beautiful clothes. He ascribes his malady to
"a terrible and deleterious blast of wind called the 'chasse-neige,' which travels by the course
of the Dnieper, and perhaps comes from the shores of the Black Sea," and which managed to penetrate
to him, though he was wrapped up with furs so that no spot seemed left for the outside air
to reach. He was now very ill, and the slightest agitation, even a sentence spoken rather loudly
in his presence, would bring on a terrible fit of suffocation. He still hoped to return to
Paris before long, and clung to the idea that his wife would accompany him; but he said it
would be impossible to travel without a servant, as he was unable to carry a parcel or to move
quickly. As he remarks, "Tout cela n'est pas gai!"

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 436.

However, his expedition and its attendant suffering were not useless,[*] as the "four or five
successive illnesses and the sufferings from the climate, which I have laughed at for her sake,
have touched that noble soul; so that she is, as a sensible woman, more influenced by them,
than afraid of the few little debts which remain to be paid, and I see that everything will
go well." On March 11th, 1850, he writes from Berditchef that "everything is now arranged for
the affair his mother knows of," but that the greatest discretion is still necessary. Madame
de Balzac is given minute directions about the flowers which are to decorate the house in the
Rue Fortunee, as a surprise to Madame Honore; and as we read, we can imagine Balzac's pride
and delight when he wrote the name. His ailments and sufferings are forgotten, and the letter
sounds as though written by an enthusiastic boy. He will send from Frankfort to let Madame
de Balzac know the exact day that he and his bride will reach Paris; and in order that the
mystery may be preserved, will merely say, "Do not forget on such a day to have the garden
arranged,"[+] and his mother will understand what he means. The whole house is evidently photographed
in his mind like the houses in his novels. He knows the exact position of each vase: of the
big jardiniere in the first room, the one in the Japanese drawing-room, the two in the domed
boudoir, and the two tiny ones in the grey apartment. They are all to be filled with flowers;
but the marquetry jardiniere in the green drawing-room, evidently the future Madame Honore's
special abode, is to be filled with "belles, belles fleurs!"

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 438.

[+] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 444.

The wedding took place at seven o'clock on the morning of March 14th, 1850, at the church of
Saint Barbe at Berditchef. In the unavoidable absence of the Bishop of Jitomir, the ceremony
was performed by the Abbe Comte Czarouski, whom Balzac calls a holy and virtuous priest, and
likens to Abbe Hinaux, the Duchesse d'Angouleme's confessor.

The Countess Anna accompanied her mother, and was in the highest spirits; and the witnesses
were the Comte Georges Mniszech, the Comte Gustave Olizar brother-in-law to the Abbe Comte
Czarouski, and the cure of the parish of Berditchef. Madame Honore de Balzac had given her
capital to her children, but received in exchange a large income, a fact which she wisely concealed
because of Balzac's creditors; and Balzac speaks with admiration of her noble generosity and
disinterestedness, in this denuding herself of her fortune.

The newly-married couple travelled back to Wierzchownia, arriving, quite tired out, at half-past
ten at night; and the next morning, as soon as he woke, Balzac wrote to inform his mother of
the great event. He explained, with a well-adjusted prevision of future discord, if the elder
Madame de Balzac's dignity were not sufficiently considered, that his wife had intended writing
herself to offer her respects, but that her hands were so swollen with rheumatic gout that
she could not hold a pen. He further informed his family, who had hitherto been kept in ignorance
of the fact, that from the same cause she was often unable to walk. However, this did not depress
him, as he remarked with his usual cheerfulness, that she would certainly be cured in Paris,
where she would be able to take exercise and would follow a prescribed treatment. He could
hardly believe in his own good fortune, and the joyful letter finishes with the words, "Ton
frere Honore, au comble du bonheur!"

Two days later, Balzac wrote to Madame Carraud a letter in which he said: "Three days ago I
married the only woman I have ever loved, whom I love more than ever, and whom I shall love
till death. This union is, I think, the recompense which God has had in reserve for me after
so much adversity, so many years of work, so much gone through and overcome. I did not have
a happy youth or happy springtide; I shall have the most brilliant of summers and the sweetest
of autumns." In his newly-found happiness he did not forget that his old friend was now in
straitened circumstances, but begged her from himself and Madame Honore to consider their house
as her own: "Therefore, whenever you wish to come to Paris you will come to us, without even
giving us notice. You will come to us in the Rue Fortunee as if to your own home, just as I
used to go to Frapesle. This is my right. I must remind you of what you said to me one day
at Angouleme, when, having broken down after writing 'Louis Lambert,' I was afraid of madness,
and talked of the way in which people afflicted in this manner were neglected. On that occasion
you said, 'If you were to become mad I should take care of you!' I have never forgotten those
words, or your look and expression. I am just the same now as I was in July, 1832. It is because
of those words that I claim you to-day, for I am nearly mad with happiness."[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 448.

In another part of the letter he tells her: "Ah! I never forget your maternal love, your divine
sympathy with suffering. Therefore, thinking of all you are worth, and of the way in which
you are struggling with trouble, I, who have so often waged war with that rough adversary,
tell you that, knowing your unhappiness, I am ashamed of my happiness; but we are both too
great for these littlenesses. We can say to each other that happiness and unhappiness are only
conditions in which great hearts live intensely, that as much strength of mind is required
in one position as in the other, and that misfortune with true friends is perhaps more endurable
than happiness surrounded by envy."

Balzac was not, after all, destined to start on his journey homeward as quickly as he had intended.
His health was terribly bad, his eyes had become so weak that he could neither read nor write,
and the chronic heart and lung malady was gaining ground so rapidly, that his breathing was
affected if he made the slightest movement. It was absolutely necessary that he should rest
for a time at Wierzchownia before attempting any further exertion. Another delay was caused
by the young Countess being attacked by measles. Her devoted mother, who in her crippled state
could not attempt any active nursing, sat by her daughter's bedside all day, and refused to
leave Wierzchownia till her anxiety about her darling's health should be over.

It was, therefore, not till the end of April that M. and Madame Honore de Balzac started for
what proved to be a terrible journey. They did not arrive in Dresden till about May 10th, having
taken three weeks to go to a distance which ought naturally to have been accomplished in five
or six days. The roads were in a fearful condition, and their lives were in danger not once,
but a hundred times a day. Sometimes fifteen or sixteen men were required to hoist the carriage
out of the mud-holes into which it had fallen. It is a wonder that Balzac survived the torture
of the journey, and it must have been very trying to the rheumatic Madame Honore. When at last
they arrived at Dresden they were both utterly exhausted, while Balzac was extremely ill, and
felt ten years older than when he started. His sight was so bad that he could not see the letters
that he was tracing on the paper, and was obliged to apologise to his correspondents for his
extraordinary hieroglyphics, while he told Madame Surville that the swollen condition of his
wife's hands still rendered it impossible for her to write.

However, Madame Honore was well enough to amuse herself by visits to the jewellers' shops,
where she bought a magnificent pearl necklace, a purchase of which Balzac evidently approved,
as he remarked that it was so beautiful that it would make a saint mad! On his part, he was
greeted on his arrival by a new vexation; as letters from Paris told him of "Vautrin" being
put on the stage without his permission, and, as we have seen, he wrote with much indignation,
to put a stop to this infringement of his rights.

An interesting letter already referred to, which is now in the possession of the Vicomte de
Spoelberch de Lovenjoul, is dated from Frankfort, the travellers' next stopping-place. It is
written to the Countess Anna, and was begun by Balzac, and finished by his wife. About Balzac's
part of the letter there is not much to remark, except that he was evidently very fond of his
step-daughter, that he told her how ill he was, and that the handwriting is the scrawl of a
man who could not see. His high spirits indeed have disappeared, but this change of tone is
easily accounted for by the state of his health. It is Madame Honore's part of the letter which
strikes the reader as curiously inadequate. It is dated May 16th, only five days after Balzac's
letter from Dresden informing his family of his wife's inability to hold a pen, and is perfectly
written; so that her rheumatic gout must have abated suddenly. She begins her letter by commenting
placidly on the sadness of seeing the sufferings of our "poor dear friend," says she tries
in vain to cheer him, and contrasts regretfully the difference between her feelings during
this journey, and her happiness when she last visited the same places, with her darling child
at her side. The principal subject in her present rather wearying life, is the wonderful pearl
necklace, which she takes out of its case conscientiously every day, that the air may preserve
the whiteness of the pearls. She states, indeed, that she does not care much about it, and
has only bought it to please her husband; but it seems to have pressed the unfortunate husband
rather into the background, and to have become the chief centre of its owner's thoughts and
solicitude.

The chilling unsatisfactory impression the letter leaves on the reader, however, is not conveyed
so much by what is said by Balzac's newly-married wife, as by what she leaves unsaid. It must
be remembered that the Countess Eve possessed the power of expressing herself with the utmost
warmth, and with even exaggerated emphasis, when she saw fit occasion for the display of feeling.
We must also keep the fact in mind, that in writing to the daughter who was her intimate friend,
she would naturally give some indications of her real self; and though it might be impossible
for one of her curiously secretive temperament to lift the veil altogether, and to open her
heart without reserve, she would be likely in some way to enable the reader to realise her
mental attitude. Therefore it is disconcerting and disquieting to discover that the one noticeable
characteristic of the letter, is utter want of feeling. No anxiety is expressed about the growing
illness of the sick man, not a word tells of fears so terrible that she hardly dares breathe
them, about the ultimate result of his malady; on the contrary, everything is taken as a matter
of course, and as though the writer had expected it beforehand. There is not even a recognition
of Balzac as her husband; he is merely "our poor dear friend," a person for whom she feels
vague pity, and in whom Anna's degree of interest is likely to be the same as her own.

Balzac was only married for about five months, and very little is known of his life during
that time. It is certain, however, that his marriage did not bring him the happiness which
he had expected, and Madame Hanska's letter from Frankfort helps to explain the reason of the
tragedy. Perhaps he had raised his hopes too high for fulfilment to be a possibility in this
world of compromise, and very likely his sufferings had made him irritable and exacting. Nevertheless,
so quick a wearing out of the faithful and passionate love which had lasted for sixteen years,
and so sudden a killing of the joy which had permeated the man's whole being when he had at
last attained his goal, seems a hard task for a woman to accomplish; and can only be explained
by her employment of the formless yet resistless force of pure indifference.

Balzac's awakening, the knowledge that the absolute perfection he had dreamed of was only an
ideal created by his own fancy, must have been inexpressibly bitter. Utter moral collapse and
vertigo were his portion, and chaos thundered in his ears, during his sudden descent from the
heights clothed with brilliant sunshine, to the puzzling depths, where he groped in darkness
and sought in vain for firm footing. "Our poor dear friend" seems, for the moment, to have
merited even more sympathy than the measure accorded to him by his wife, in her intervals of
leisure after caring for her pearl necklace.

Balzac's mother had, as we have already seen, taken up her abode with Madame Surville, long
before the often-deferred appearance in Paris of her son and daughter-in-law; but Honore had
given directions, that at any rate she was to leave the Rue Fortunee before he and his bride
arrived. It would, he said, compromise her dignity to help with the unpacking, and Madame Honore
should visit her mother-in-law next day to pay her respects. Balzac was anxious that the first
meeting should take place at Laure's house rather than at Madame de Balzac's lodging at Suresnes,
as it was now impossible for him to mount any steps, and there were fewer stairs at No. 47,
Rue des Martyrs than at his mother's abode.[*] His health, he wrote, was so deplorable that
he would not remain for long in Paris, but would go with his wife to Biarritz to take the waters.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 456.

The travellers did not after all arrive in Paris till near the end of May. This is proved by
a letter from Madame de Balzac[*] to a friend, written on the 20th of that month, in which
she says that they are now expected every day, but that their progress is a slow one, owing
to her son's illness and the heavy condition of the roads. She adds that she has now been in
bed for three months, so Laure must evidently have acted as her deputy, in the task of superintending
Francois' preparations in the Rue Fortunee. No doubt Francois worked strenuously, as he, like
all Balzac's servants, was devoted to his master, though on this occasion he unwittingly provided
him with a ghastly home-coming.

The travellers did not arrive at the Rue Fortunee till late at night.[*] The house was brilliantly
lit, and through the windows they could see the flowers with which the rooms were decorated;
but in vain they rang at the courtyard gate--no one appeared to let them in. It was a miserable
arrival, and utterly inexplicable, as Balzac had planned the arrangements most carefully beforehand,
going minutely into commissariat details, that his bride might find everything absolutely comfortable
on her arrival in her new home. It was impossible to force an entrance, so M. and Madame Honore
de Balzac, utterly worn out by the fatigues of the journey, and longing for rest, were obliged
to sit in the carriage and spend the time in agitation and vain conjecture, while a messenger
was despatched for a locksmith. When the door was at last opened, a terrible solution to the
problem presented itself. The excitement and strain of the preparations, and of the hourly
expectation of the travellers, had completely upset the mental balance of the unfortunate Francois,
and he had gone suddenly mad! It was a sinister omen, a wretched commencement to Balzac's home
life; and he, always superstitious, was no doubt doubly so in his invalided and suffering condition.
Francois Munch was sent to a lunatic asylum, where he was cared for at his master's expense.

[*] "Un Roman d'Amour," by the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul.

                             CHAPTER XVII

                            1850 AND AFTER

  Balzac's ill-health--Theophile Gautier and Victor Hugo--Balzac's
  grief about the unfinished "Comedie Humaine"--His interview with
  the doctor--Victor Hugo's account of his death-bed--Balzac's death
  and funeral--Life afterwards in the Rue Fortunee--Reckless
  extravagance--House rifled at Madame de Balzac's death--Fate of
  Balzac's MSS.--His merits as a writer.

When Balzac's friends came to visit him in the Rue Fortunee, they were much shocked by the
change in his appearance. His breathing was short, his speech jerky, and his sight so bad that
he was unable to distinguish objects clearly. Nevertheless, as Gautier says,[*] every one felt
such intense confidence in his wonderful constitution that it seemed impossible to think of
a probably fatal result to his malady. Balzac himself, optimistic as ever, clung persistently
to his hope of speedy recovery. His fame was now at its zenith, the series entitled "Les Parents
Pauvres" had awakened the utmost enthusiasm; and the elite of the Parisian world were eager
to flock to the Rue Fortunee to stare at the curiosities collected there, and to make the acquaintance
of Balzac's rich and distinguished Russian wife.

[*] "Portraits Contemporains: Honore de Balzac," by Theophile Gautier.

However, in his native country, Balzac was destined never to receive a full guerdon of adulation
and admiration; for though he was visited by a few friends, the doctors insisted on keeping
him otherwise in the strictest retirement.

Theophile Gautier relates that he went to the Rue Fortunee to say good-bye to his friend before
starting for Italy, and, though disappointed not to see him, was relieved about his health
when told that he was out driving. However, a little later, a letter was brought to Gautier
which had been dictated by Balzac to his wife, in which he explained that he had only gone
to the Customhouse to get out some luggage, and had done this against the express orders of
his doctors. However, he spoke cheerfully of his health, saying that he was feeling better,
and that the next day the doctors intended to attack the chronic malady from which he was suffering.
For two months at least he expected to be kept like a mummy, and not to be allowed to speak
or to move; but there were great hopes of his ultimate recovery. If Gautier came again, he
hoped for a letter beforehand naming the day and hour, that he might certainly be at home;
as in the solitude to which he was doomed by the doctors, his friend's affection seemed to
him more precious than ever. All this was written in Madame de Balzac's handwriting, and under
it Balzac had scrawled: "I can neither read nor write!"[*] Gautier left for Italy soon after
this, and he never saw his friend again. He read the news of Balzac's death in a newspaper
when he was at Venice, taking an ice at the Cafe Florian, in the Piazza of St. Mark; and so
terrible was the shock, that he nearly fell from his seat. He tells us that he felt for the
moment unchristian indignation and revolt, when he thought of the octogenarian idiots he had
seen that morning at the asylum on the island of San Servolo, and then of Balzac cut off in
his prime; but he checked himself, for he remembered that all souls are equal in the sight of God.

[*] "Portraits Contemporains: Honore de Balzac," by Theophile Gautier.

Victor Hugo also visited the invalid, and says that even a month before his death he was perfectly
confident about his recovery, and was gay and full of laughter, discussing politics, stating
his own legitimist views with decision, and accusing his visitor of being a demagogue. He said:
"I have M. de Beaujon's house without the garden, but I am owner of the gallery leading to
the little church at the corner of the street. A door on my staircase leads into the church.
One turn of the key, and I am at Mass. I care more for the gallery than for the garden."[*]

[*] "Choses Vues," by Victor Hugo.

When Victor Hugo got up to go, Balzac accompanied him with difficulty to this staircase, to
point out the precious door; and called to his wife, "Mind you show Hugo all my pictures."
Though Balzac does not appear to have been very intimate with the great romantic poet in former
years, he seems to have found special pleasure in his society at this time. Hugo was at the
seaside when Balzac next sent for him. He hurried back,[*] however, at the urgent summons,
and found the dying man stretched on a sofa covered with red and gold brocade. Balzac tried
to rise, but could not; his face was purple, and his eyes alone had life in them. Now that
happiness in his married life had failed him, his mind had reverted to the yet unfinished "Comedie
Humaine"; and he talked long and sadly of projected herculean labours, and of the fate of his
still unpublished works. "Although my wife has more brains than I, who will support her in
her solitude, she whom I have accustomed to so much love?" "Certainly," Victor Hugo remarks
drily, "she was crying a great deal."

[*] See letter written by Madame Hamelin to the Countess Kisselef
    quoted in "Histoire des Oeuvres de Balzac," by the Vicomte de
    Spoelberch de Lovenjoul, p. 406.

Nevertheless, though Balzac did at last realise his dangerous state, he had no idea that his
end was approaching so near, and he still hoped to be able to add a few more stones to the
edifice of the "Comedie Humaine," that great work, which was now again the principal object
of his life, the one bright vision in a world of disappointment. In August, however, an agonising
suspicion began for the first time to visit him momentarily, a terrible fear to assail him.
What if there were not time after all? What if the creations which floated through his mind
while he lay suffering and helpless, were never destined to be put into shape? What if his
opportunity for work on earth were really over? It was a horrible idea; a fancy, he told himself,
born only of weakness. Destiny must intend him to finish his appointed task. Robbed of everything
else he had longed for, that one consolation surely remained. He would ask the doctor, would
be content with no vague and soothing generalities, but would insist on knowing the exact truth.
It could not--ah, it could not be as black as the nightmares of his imagination!

He approached the subject cautiously on the doctor's next visit.[*] Perhaps, he said, he had
after all never realised sufficiently the acuteness of his malady. He certainly felt terribly
ill, and knew that he was losing ground; while, in spite of all his efforts, he was unable
to eat anything. His duty required that he should bequeath a certain legacy to the public,
and he had calculated carefully, and had discovered that he would be able in six months to
accomplish his task. Could the doctor promise him that length of time? There was no answer
to this searching question, but a shake of the head from the pitying doctor. "Ah," cried Balzac
sorrowfully, "I see quite well that you will not allow me six months. . . . Well, at any rate,
you will at least give me six weeks? . . . Six weeks with fever is an eternity. Hours are like
days . . . and then the nights are not lost." Again the doctor shook his head, and Balzac once
more lowered his claims for a vestige of life. "I have courage to submit," he said proudly;
"but six days . . . you will certainly give me that? I shall then be able to write down hasty
plans that my friends may be able to finish, shall tear up bad pages and improve good ones,
and shall glance rapidly through the fifty volumes I have already written. Human will can do
miracles." Balzac pleaded pathetically, almost as though he thought his interlocutor could
grant the boon of longer life if he willed to do so. He had aged ten years since the beginning
of the interview, and he had now no voice left to speak, and the doctor hardly any voice for
answering. The latter managed, however, to tell his patient that everything must be done to-day,
because in all probability to-morrow would not exist for him; and Balzac cried with horror,
"I have then only six hours!" fell back on his pillows, and spoke no more.

[*] The following account of Balzac's interview with his doctor is
    taken from an article written by Arsene Houssaye in the Figaro
    of August 20th, 1883. It is right to add that the Vicomte de
    Spoelberch de Lovenjoul, the great authority on Balzac, throws
    grave doubts on the accuracy of the story.

He died the next day, and Victor Hugo gives us one more glimpse of him.[*] The poet was told
by his wife, who had visited Madame de Balzac during the day, that Balzac's last hour had come;
and directly after dinner he took a cab and drove rapidly to the Rue Fortunee. "I rang. It
was moonlight, occasionally veiled by clouds. The street was deserted. No one came. I rang
a second time. The door was opened. A servant appeared with a candle. 'What does Monsieur want?'
she said. She was crying.

[*] "Choses Vues, 1850: Mort de Balzac," by Victor Hugo.

"I gave my name. I was shown into the room on the ground floor. On a pedestal opposite the
fireplace was the colossal bust of Balzac by David. In the middle of the salon, on a handsome
oval table, which had for legs six gilded statuettes of great beauty, a wax candle was burning.
Another woman came in crying, and said: 'He is dying. Madame has gone to her own rooms. The
doctors gave him up yesterday.' After going into medical details, the woman continued: 'The
night was bad. This morning at nine o'clock Monsieur spoke no more. Madame sent for a priest.
The priest came, and administered extreme unction. Monsieur made a sign to show that he understood.
An hour afterwards he pressed the hand of his sister, Madame Surville. Since eleven o'clock
the death rattle has been in his throat, and he can see nothing. He will not last out the night.
If you wish it, Monsieur, I will call M. Surville, who has not yet gone to bed.'

"The woman left me. I waited several minutes. The candle hardly lighted up the splendid furniture
of the salon, and the magnificent paintings by Porbus and Holbein which were hanging on the
walls. The marble bust showed faintly in the obscurity, like the spectre of a dying man. A
corpse-like odour filled the house.

"M. Surville came in, and confirmed all that the servant had told me. I asked to see M. de Balzac.

"We crossed a corridor, went up a staircase covered with a red carpet and crowded with artistic
objects--vases, statues, pictures, and stands with enamels on them. Then we came to another
passage, and I saw an open door. I heard the sound of difficult, rattling breathing. I entered
Balzac's room.

"The bedstead was in the centre of the room. It was of mahogany, and across the foot and at
the head were beams provided with straps for moving the sick man. M. de Balzac was in this
bed, his head resting on a heap of pillows, to which the red damask sofa cushions had been
added. His face was purple, almost black, and was inclined to the right. He was unshaved, his
grey hair was cut short, and his eyes open and fixed. I saw his profile, and it was like that
of the Emperor Napoleon.

"An old woman, the nurse, and a servant, stood beside the bed. A candle was burning on a table
behind the head of the bed, another on a chest of drawers near the door. A silver vase was
on the stand near the bed. The women and man were silent with a kind of terror, as they listened
to the rattling breathing of the dying man.

"The candle at the head of the bed lit up brilliantly the portrait of a young man, fresh-coloured
and smiling, which was hanging near the fireplace. . . .

"I lifted the coverlet and took Balzac's hand. It was covered with perspiration. I pressed
it. He did not respond to the pressure. . . .

"I went downstairs again, carrying in my mind the memory of that livid face, and, crossing
the drawing-room, I looked again at the bust --immovable, impassive, proud, and smiling faintly,
and I compared death with immortality."

Balzac died that night, Sunday, August 17th, 1850, at half-past eleven, at the age of fifty-one.

The dying man's almost complete isolation is strange, and the servant's news that M. Surville
had not yet gone to bed has a callous ring about it. Perhaps, however, the doctors had told
Madame de Balzac and Madame Surville that Balzac was unconscious, and they had therefore withdrawn,
utterly exhausted by the fatigues of the night before. In any case, it seems sad, though possibly
of no moment to the dying man, that several of his nearest relations should have deserted him
before the breath had left his body. Our respect for the elder Madame de Balzac is decidedly
raised, because, though there had occasionally been disagreements between her and her son,
the true mother feeling asserted itself at the last, and she alone watched with the paid attendants
till the end came.

However, some one was busy about the arrangements, as Balzac's portrait was taken by Giraud
directly after his death, and a cast was made of his beautifully-shaped hand. His body was
taken into the Beaujon Chapel before burial, so that he passed for the last time, as Victor
Hugo remarks, through that door, the key of which was more precious to him than all the beautiful
gardens which had belonged to the old Farmer-General.

The funeral service was held on Wednesday, August 20th, at the Church of Sainte Philippe du
Roule. The rain was descending in torrents, but the procession, followed by a large crowd,
walked the whole way across Paris to the Cemetery of Pere-la-Chaise, where the interment took
place. The pall-bearers were Victor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas, Monsieur Baroche, and Sainte-Beuve.
At the grave Victor Hugo spoke, finishing with the words: "No, it is not the Unknown to him.
I have said this before, and I shall never tire of repeating it: it is not darkness to him,
it is Light! It is not the end, but the beginning; not nothingness, but eternity! Is not this
the truth, I ask you who listen to me? Such coffins proclaim immortality. In the presence of
certain illustrious dead, we understand the divine destiny of that intellect which has traversed
earth to suffer and to be purified. Do we not say to ourselves here, to-day, that it is impossible
for a great genius in this life to be other than a great spirit after death?"[*]

[*] "Funerailles de Balzac," in "Actes et Paroles," by Victor Hugo.

The Cemetery of Pere-la-Chaise had been one of Balzac's favourite haunts in the old half-starved
days of the Rue Lesdiguieres. "Here I am back from Pere-la-Chaise," he wrote to his sister
in 1820,[*] "and I have brought with me some good big inspiring reflections. Decidedly, the
only fine epitaphs are these: La Fontaine, Messena, Moliere, a single name, which tells all
and makes one dream." Probably Madame Surville remembered these words and repeated them to
Madame Honore de Balzac, for the monument erected to Balzac is a broken column with his name
inscribed on it.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 24.

The fortunes of the inhabitants of the Rue Fortunee were not happy after Balzac's death. Madame
Honore de Balzac's contemporaries considered that she as not really as overwhelmed with sorrow
at her husband's death as she appeared to be, and that when she wrote heartbroken letters,
she slightly exaggerated the real state of her feelings; but she assumed gallantly the burdens
laid upon her by the state of pecuniary embarrassment in which her husband died. If Balzac
had lived longer and had been able to work steadily, there is little doubt that he would in
a few years have become a free man, as the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul tells us[*] that
in the years between 1841 and 1847, after which date his productions became very rare, he had
enormously diminished the sum he owed. In this way, "Mercadet le Faiseur" was acted a year
after Balzac's death, and "Les Petits Bourgeois" and "Le Depute d'Arcis" were published, the
latter being finished, according to Balzac's wish, by Charles Rabou. "Les Paysans," which was
to have filled eight volumes, and of which, as we have already seen, only a few chapters were
written, presented great difficulty; but at last Madame de Balzac, aided by Champfleury and
by Charles Rabou, managed to give some consistency to the fragment, and it appeared in the
Revue de Paris in April, May and June, 1855. Unfortunately, however, no information was given
as to the unfinished state in which it had been left by Balzac, and therefore no explanation
was offered of the insufficiency of the denouement, and the inadequacy of the last chapters.
Madame de Balzac worked hard, and long before her death in April, 1882, the whole of Balzac's
debts were paid off.

This was most creditable to her; but side by side with her admirable conduct in this respect,
she seems to have either actively abetted, or at any rate acquiesced in mad extravagance on
the part of Madame Georges Mniszech, who with her husband, had come to live in the Rue Fortunee
after Balzac's death. Perhaps Madame de Balzac was too busy with her literary and business
arrangements, to pay attention to what was happening, or possibly maternal devotion prevented
her from denying her beloved daughter anything she craved for. At all events the results of
her supineness were lamentable, especially as M. Georges Mniszech was not capable of exercising
any restraint on his wife; he being for some years before his death in 1881, in the most delicate
state of health, both mental and physical.

Madame Georges Mniszech--after years of the wild Russian steppes, suddenly plunged into the
fascinations of shopping in Paris, and left to her own devices--seems to have shown senseless
folly in her expenditure. Additions were made to the house in the Rue Fortunee, though Balzac's
rooms were left untouched; and the Chateau de Beauregard, at Villeneuve-Saint-Georges, was
bought as a country residence. Madame de Balzac and her daughter were, however, rich, and could
quite afford to live comfortably, and even luxuriously. Their ruin seems to have been brought
about by reckless expenditure on things which were of absolutely no use, and were only bought
for the amusement of buying. Several sales of pictures took place, and on February 9th, 1882,[*]
the Chateau de Beauregard and its contents were sold by order of the President of the Civil
Tribunal of Corbeil.

[*] "Life of Balzac," by Frederick Wedmore.

Madame de Balzac died in April of the same year; and the very day of her funeral, Madame Georges
Mniszech's creditors pushed her and her maid into the street, and rifled the house in the Rue
Fortunee. The booty was transported to the auction-room known as l'Hotel Drouot, and there
a sale was held by order of justice of Balzac's library, his Buhl cabinets, and some of his
MSS., including that of "Eugenie Grandet," which had been given to Madame Hanska on December
24th, 1833. During the shameless pillage of the house, the vultures who ransacked it found
evidence of the most reckless, the most imbecile extravagance, proof positive that the wisdom,
prudence, even the principles of poor Balzac's paragon the Countess Anna, had been routed by
the glitter and glamour of the holiday city. One room was filled with boxes containing hats,
and in another, piles of costly silks were heaped, untouched since their arrival from the fashionable
haberdasher or silk mercer.[*] Balzac's treasures, the curiosities he had amassed with so much
trouble, the pictures of which he had been so proud, were ruthlessly seized; while precious
manuscripts and letters, which would perhaps have brought in a hundred thousand francs if they
had been put up for sale, were thrown out of the window by the exasperated throng.

[*] "Journal des Goncourts," vol. viii. P. 48.

The Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul rescued a page of the first of Balzac's letters to Madame
Hanska which has been found up to this time, from a cobbler whose stall was opposite the house.
The cobbler, when once started on the quest by the Vicomte, discovered many other letters,
sketches, and unfinished novels, which had been picked up by the neighbouring shopkeepers,
and were only saved in the nick of time from being used to wrap up pounds of butter, or to
make bags for other household commodities. It was an exciting chase, requiring patience and
ingenuity; and Balzac's former cook held out for years, before she would consent to sell a
packet of letters which the Vicomte coveted specially. Sometimes incidentally there were delightful
surprises, and occasionally real joys; as on the occasion when the searcher found at a distant
grocer's shop, the middle of the letter, of which the first page had been saved from destruction
at the hands of the cobbler.

The bitter dislike Balzac had evoked in the literary world, and his occasional obscurity and
clumsy style, have militated very strongly against his popularity in his native land, where
perfection in the manipulation of words is of supreme importance in a writer. While in France,
however, Balzac's undoubted faults have partially blinded his countrymen to his consummate
merits as a writer, and they have been strangely slow in acknowledging the debt of gratitude
they owe to him, the rest or the world has already begun to realise his power of creating type,
his wonderful imagination, his versatility, and his extraordinary impartiality; and to accord
him his rightful place among the Immortals. Nevertheless we are still too near to him, to be
able to focus him clearly, and to estimate aright his peculiar place in literature, or the
full scope of his genius.

Some very great authorities claim him as a member of the Romantic School; while, on the other
hand, he is often looked on--apparently with more reason--as the first of the Realists. His
object in writing was, he tells us, to represent mankind as he saw it, to be the historian
of the nineteenth century, and to classify human beings as Buffon had classified animals. No
doubt this scheme was very imperfectly carried out: certainly the powerful mind of Balzac with
its wealth of imagination, often projected itself into his puppets, so that many of his characters
are not the ordinary men and women he wished to portray, but are inspired by the fire of genius.
This fact does not, however, alter the aim of their creator. He intended to be merely a chronicler,
a scientific observer of things around him; and though his works are tinged to a large extent
with the Romanticism of the powerful school in vogue in his day, this object marks him plainly
as the forerunner of the Realists, the founder of a totally new conception of the scope and
range of the novel.

Theophile Gautier's words should prove to the modern reader, the debt of gratitude he owes
to the inaugurator of a completely original system of fiction. Speaking of Balzac's impecunious
and ambitious heroes, Gautier cries:[*] "O Corinne, who on the Cape of Messina allowest thy
snowy arm to hang over the ivory lyre, while the son of Albion, clothed in a superb new cloak,
and with elegant boots perfectly polished, gazes at thee, and listens in an elegant pose: Corinne,
what wouldst thou have said to such heroes? They have nevertheless one little quality which
Oswald lacked--they live, and with so strong a life that we have met them a thousand times."
Balzac's own words, speaking of his play "La Maratre,"[+] might also serve for a motto for
his novels: "I dream of a drawing-room comedy, where everything is calm, quiet, and amiable.
The men play whist placidly by the light of candles with little green shades. The women talk
and laugh while they work at their embroidery. They all take tea together. To sum up, everything
announces good order and harmony. Well, underneath are agitating passions; the drama stirs,
it prepares itself secretly, till it blazes forth like the flame of a conflagration."

[*] "Portraits Contemporains: Honore de Balzac," by Theophile Gautier.

[+] "Historiettes et Souvenirs d'un Homme de Theatre," by H. Hostein.

Balzac is essentially a Realist, in his use of the novel as a vehicle for the description of
real struggling life; with money and position, the principal desiderata of modern civilisation,
powerful as determining factors in the moulding of men's actions. Life, as portrayed in the
old-fashioned novel, where the hero and heroine and their love affairs were the sole focus
of attraction, and the other characters were grouped round in subordinate positions, while
every one declined in interest as he advanced in years, was not life as Balzac saw it; and
he pictures his hero's agony at not having a penny with which to pay his cab fare, with as
much graphic intensity, as he tells of the same young gentleman's despair when his inamorata
is indifferent to him.

Nevertheless, if we compare Balzac with the depressing writers of the so-called Realist School,
we shall find that his conception of life differed greatly from theirs. In Flaubert's melancholy
books, even perfection of style and painstaking truth of detail do not dissipate the deadly
dulness of an unreal world, where no one rises above the low level of self-gratification; while
Zola considers man so completely in his physical aspect, that he ends by degrading him below
the animal world. Balzac, on the other hand, believed in purity, in devotion, and unselfishness;
though he did not think that these qualities are triumphant on earth. In his pessimistic view
of life, virtue generally suffered, and had no power against vice; but he knew that it existed,
and he believed in a future where wrongs would be righted.

He is a poet and idealist, and thus akin to the Romanticists--though he lacks their perfection
of diction--in his feeling for the beauty of atmospheric effects, and also in his enthusiasm
for music, which he loved passionately. The description of Montriveau's emotions when the cloistered
Duchesse de Langeais plays in the church of Spain--and Balzac tells us that the sound of the
organ bears the mind through a thousand scenes of life to the infinite which parts earth from
heaven, and that through its tones the luminous attributes of God Himself pierce and radiate--is
totally unrealistic both in moral tone, and in its accentuation of the power of the higher
emotions. His intense admiration for Sir Walter Scott--an admiration which he expresses time
after time in his letters--is a further proof of his sympathy for the school of thought, which
glorified the picturesque Middle Ages above every other period of history.

Whichever school, however, may claim Balzac, it is an undisputed fact that he possessed in
a high degree that greatest of all attributes --the power of creation of type. Le Pere Goriot,
Balthazar Claes, Old Grandet, La Cousine Bette, Le Cousin Pons, and many other people in Balzac's
pages, are creations; they live and are immortal. He has endowed them with more splendid and
superabundant vitality than is accorded to ordinary humanity.

To do this, something is required beyond keenness of vision. The gift of seeing vividly--as
under a dazzling light--to the very kernel of the object stripped of supernumerary circumstance,
is indeed necessary for the portrayal of character; but although Dickens, as well as Balzac,
possessed this faculty to a high degree, his people are often qualities personified, or impossible
monsters. For the successful creation of type, that power in which Balzac is akin to Shakespeare,
it is necessary that a coherent whole shall be formed, and that the full scope of a character
shall be realised, with its infinite possibilities on its own plane, and its impotence to move
a hairsbreadth on to another. The mysterious law which governs the conduct of life must be
fathomed; so that, though there may be unexpected and surprising developments, the artistic
sense and intuition which we possess shall not be outraged, and we shall still recognise the
abiding personality under everything. Balzac excels in this; and because of this power, and
also because--at a time when Byronic literature was in the ascendant, and it was the fashion
to think that the quintessence of beauty could be found by diving into the depths of one's
own being--he came forward without pose or self-consciousness, as a simple observer of the
human race, the world will never cease to owe him a debt of gratitude, and to rank him among
her greatest novelists.