"Mis' Cary got so skeered dat she run 'roun' an' 'roun' de house, but Marse Drew run after
her, an' every now an' den he th'ow out dat plaited whip an' curl it 'roun' her shoulders.
Every time it hit it cut clean through her clothes. Mis' Cary got so skeered dat de baby come
dat night befo' 'twuz time. De baby wuz bawn dead an' Mis' Cary went on to glory wid it. Dey
say she was glad to go. Yes, suh, everything on dat plantation, animal an' man was skeered
of dat whip--dat whip dat never lef' Marse Drew's wris'. It was made of home-tanned leather
plaited in a roun' cord big as a man's thum'. All day it swung from a leather strop tied to
his wris' an' at night it lay on a chair 'side de bed whare he could reach it easy.

"It was jus' befo' de Yankees come over here to fight dat Marse Drew bought Cleve an' Lissa
Lawson. Dey was my gran'mammy an' gran'pappy. My mammy den was a baby. Marse Drew bought dem
for fo' hundred an' fifty dollars. Dat was cheap kaze de niggers was young wid hard farm trainin'.
Ole Marse didn' buy mammy. He said a nigger brat wuzn' no good, dey wouldn' sell an' dey might
die befo' dey growed up, 'sides dey was a strain on de mammy what breas' nussed it. Lissa cut
up powerful kaze he made her leave de baby behin', but Marse Drew jus' laughed an' tole her
dat he would give her a puppy; dat dey was plenty of houn's on de plantation. Den he snapped
de chains on dey wris' an' led dem off. Lissa an' Cleve never seed dat baby no more. Aunt Beck
Lawson took an' raised her an' when she got grown she was my mammy.

"Yes, suh, Marse Drew bought dem niggers like he was buyin' a pair of mules. Dey wuzn' no more
den mules to him. It was early summer when he brung dem to de plantation, but when wheat cuttin'
time come Lissa an' Cleve was sent to de wheat fiel's. Dey was smart niggers, dey worked hard--too
hard for dey own good. In dem times 'twuz de smart, hard workin' niggers dat brought de bes'
price, an' nobody didn' know dat better den Marse Drew.

"One day Cleve seed Marse Drew watchin' Lissa. She was gleamin' de wheat. Her skin was de color
of warm brown velvet; her eyes was dark an' bright an' shinin' like muscadines under de frosty
sun, an' her body was slender like a young tree dat bends easy. As she stooped an' picked up
de wheat, flingin' it 'cross her arm, she swayed back an' fo'th jus' like dem saplins down
yonder by de creek sways in de win'.

"Cleve watched Marse Drew on de sly. He seed him watchin' Lissa. He seed de lustful look in
his eyes, but 'twuzn' Lissa he lustin' after; 'twuz money he seed in her slender swayin' body,
in de smooth warm brown skin, an' de quick, clean way she gleam de wheat. Stripped to de wais'
on de Alabama auction block she would bring near 'bout a thousan' dollars. Cleve 'gun to sweat.
He turned so sick an' skeered dat he could hardly swing de scythe through de wheat. Marse Drew
done took his baby away, an' now sumpin' way down in his heart told him dat he was gwine take
Lissa. He didn' keer if he parted dem, 'twuz dollars he seed swingin' 'roun' his head--gol'
dollars shinin' brighter den stars.

"'Twuz de nex' day dat Marse Drew went to Cleve's cabin. He walk up whistlin' an' knock on
de door wid de butt of his whip.

"Cleve opened de door.

"Ole Marse tole him to pack Lissa's clothes, dat he was takin' her to Souf Boston de nex' day
to sell her on de block.

"Cleve fell on his knees an' 'gun to plead. He knew Ole Marse wuzn' gwine take Lissa to no
Souf Boston; he was gwine take her way off an' he wouldn' never see her no more. He beg an'
promise Marse Drew to be good an' do anything he say [HW: to] do if he jus' leave him Lissa,
dat she was his wife an' he love her. But Marse Drew hit him 'cross de face wid his whip, cuttin'
his lip in half, den he went over an' felt of Lissa's arms an' legs like she might have been
a hoss.

"When he done gone Cleve went over an' set down by Lissa an' took her han'. Lissa 'gun to cry,
den she jumped up an' 'menced to take down her clothes hangin' on de wall.

"Cleve watched her for a while, den he made up his min' he gwine do sumpin', dat she ain't
gwine be took away from him. He say: 'Quit dat, Lissa, leave dem clothes alone. You ain't gwine
leave me, you ain't gwine nowhare, hear me?' Den he tole her to make up a hot fire while he
brung in de wash pot. He brung in de big iron pot an' set it on de hearth an' raked de' red
coals all 'roun' it, den he filled it wid water. While it was heatin' he went to de door an'
looked out. De sun done gone down an' night was crowdin' de hills, pushin' dem out of sight.
By daylight dat white man would be comin' after Lissa.

"Cleve turned 'roun' an' looked at Lissa. She was standin' by de wash pot lookin' down in de
water, an' de firelight from de burnin' lightwood knots showed de tears droppin' off her cheeks.
Cleve went outside. 'Bout dat time a scritch owl come an' set on de roof an' scritched. Lissa
run out to skeer it away, but Cleve caught her arm. He say, 'Don't do dat, Lissa, leave him
alone. Dat's de death bird, he knows what he's doin'. So Lissa didn' do nothin', she let de
bird keep on scritchin'.

"When 'twuz good an' dark Cleve took a long rope an' went out, tellin' Lissa to keep de water
boilin'. When, he come back he had Marse Drew all tied up wid de rope an gagged so he couldn'
holler; he had him th'owed over his shoulder like a sack of meal. He brung him in de cabin
an' laid him on de floor, den he tole him if he wouldn' sell Lissa dat he wouldn' hurt him.
But Marse Drew shook his head an' cussed in his th'oat. Den Cleve took off de gag, but befo'
de white man could holler out, Cleve stuffed de spout of a funnel in his big mouf way down
his th'oat, holdin' down his tongue. He ax him one more time to save Lissa from de block, but
Marse Drew look at him wid hate in his eyes shook his head again. Cleve didn' say nothin' else
to him; he call Lissa an' tole her to bring him a pitcher of boilin' water.

"By den Lissa seed what Cleve was gwine do. She didn' tell Cleve not to do it nor nothin';
she jus' filled de pitcher wid hot water, den she went over an' set down on de floor an' hol'
Marse Drew's head so he couldn' move.

"When Ole Marse seed what dey was fixin' to do to him, his eyes near 'bout busted out of his
head, but when dey ax him again 'bout Lissa he wouldn' promise nothin', so Cleve set on him
to hol' him down, den took de pitcher an' 'gun to pour dat boilin' water right in dat funnel
stickin' in Marse Drew's mouf.

"Dat man kicked an' struggled, but dat water scalded its way down his th'oat, burnin' up his
insides. Lissa brung another pitcher full an' dey wuzn' no pity in her eyes as she watched
Marse Drew fightin' his way to torment, cussin' all niggers an' Abraham Lincoln.

"After dat Lissa an' Cleve set down to wait for de sheriff. Dey knew 'twuzn' no use to run,
dey couldn' get nowhare. 'Bout sunup de folks come an' foun' Marse Drew, an' dey foun' Lissa
an' Cleve settin' by de door han' in han' waitin'. When dem niggers tole what dey done an'
how come dey done it dem white folks was hard. De sheriff took de rope from' roun' Marse Drew
an' cut it in two pieces. He tied one rope 'roun' Cleve's neck an' one rope 'roun' Lissa's
neck an' hung dem up in de big oak tree in de yard.

"Yes, suh, dat's what happened to my gran'mammy an' gran'pappy in slavery times. Dis here cabin
we's settin' in is de same cabin whare Cleve an' Lissa scalded Marse Drew, an' dat oak tree
'side de paf is de same tree dey was hung on. Sometimes now in de fall of de year when I'se
settin' in de door after de sun done gone down; an' de wheat am ripe an' bendin' in de win',
an' de moon am roun' an' yeller like a mush melon, seems like I sees two shadows swingin' from
de big lim' of dat tree--I sees dem swingin' low side by side wid dey feets near 'bout touchin'
de groun'."

N.C. District:        No. 2 Worker:               Mary A. Hicks No. Words:            390 Subject:
JANE LEE Person Interviewed:   Jane Lee Editor:               G.L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: SEP 10 1937]

JANE LEE

An interview with Jane Lee, 81 years old, Selma, North Carolina.

"I wus borned de slave of Marse Henry McCullers down here at Clayton on de Wake an' Johnston
line. My daddy wus named Addison an' my mammy wus named Caroline. Daddy 'longed to Mr. John
Ellington who also lived near Clayton. I doan know de number of Mr. Ellington's slaves, but
I know dat Marse Henry had six or seben.

"Marse Henry ain't had no oberseer ner no patterollers nother. He managed his business hisself
an' ain't needed nobody. He whupped dem when dey needed hit but dat ain't often, not dat he
ain't put de whuppin' on dem what did need hit.

"I 'members de Yankees comin' good as iffen hit wus yesterday. Dey comed wid a big noise, chasin'
our white folks what wus in de army clean away. Dey chase dem to Raleigh an' den dey kotch
'em, but dey ain't had much time, ter do us any damage case dey wus too busy atter de Rebs.

"De woods wus full of runaway slaves an' Rebs who deserted de army so hit wus dangerous to
walk out. Marse Henry give us a speech about hit an' atter I seed one rag-a-muffin nigger man
dat wus so hongry dat his eyes pop out, I ain't took no more walks.

"Atter de war we moved on Mr. Ellington's place wid daddy an' dar I stayed till I married Wyatt
Lee. Wyatt wus a bad proposition an' he got shot in Fayetteville atter we had five chilluns.
Wyatt tuck a woman to Fayetteville an' a man named Frank Mattiner killed him about her. Den
my oldest boy went to wurk in Virginia an' a man named Rudolphus killed him 'bout a yaller
gal. Both of de murderers runaway an' ain't never been ketched.

"All five of my chilluns am daid now, an' fer de past ten years I'se done ever'thing but cut
cord wood.

"How does I live? Well I lives now an' den. De county gives me two dollars a month an' de house
am mine durin' my life time. Mr. Parrish sold hit to Judge Brooks wid de understandin' dat
hit am mine long as I live. I don't know why, none of us never 'longed ter de Parrish's ner
nothin' dat I knows of." I remember when de soldiers come an' had tents in Marster's yard before
dey went off to de breastworks. My mother wus hired out before de surrender an' had to leave
her two chilluns at home on Marster's plantation. When she come home Christmas he told her
she would not have to go back any more. She could stay at home. This wus de las' year o' de
war and he tol' her she would soon be free.

"My eyes are mighty bad. De doctor said he would work on 'em if somebody in de Agriculture
Building would pay it.[4] I can't see at all out of one eye and the other is bad.

"I doan reckon I wus ten years old when de Yankees come, but I wus runnin' around an' can remember
all dis. Guess I wus 'bout eight years old. I wus born in Warren County, near Warrenton. I
belonged to Peter Mitchell, a long, tall man. There were 'bout a hundred slaves on de plantation.
My missus wus named Laura. Mother always called me 'ole Betsy' when she wus mad at me. Betsy
wus Marster Peter's mother. I remember seein' her. She wus a big fat 'oman wid white hair.
She give biscuits to all de chillun on Saturdays. She also looked out for de slave chilluns
on Sunday. My father wus named Marcillus Littlejohn and my mother wus named Susan Littlejohn.

"We had gardens and patches and plenty to eat. We also got de holidays. Marster bought charcoal
from de men which dey burnt at night an' on holidays. Dey worked an' made de stuff, an' marster
would let dem have de steer-carts an' wagons to carry deir corn an' charcoal to sell it in
town. Yes sir, dis wus mighty nice. We had plank houses. Dere wus not but one log house on
de plantation. Marster lived in de big house. It had eight porches on it.

"Dere wus no churches on de plantation, an' I doan remember any prayer meetin's. When we sang
we turned de wash-pots an' tubs in de doors, so dey would take up de noise so de white folks
could not hear us. I do remember de gatherin's at our home to pray fur de Yankees to come.
All de niggers thought de Yankees had blue bellies. The old house cook got so happy at one
of dese meetin's she run out in de yard an' called, 'Blue bellies come on, blue bellies come
on.' Dey caught her an' carried her back into de house.

"When de overseer whupped one o' de niggers he made all de slaves sing, 'Sho' pity Lawd, Oh!
Lawd forgive!. When dey sang awhile he would call out one an' whup him. He had a sing fur everyone
he whupped. Marster growed up wid de niggers an' he did not like to whup 'em. If dey sassed
him he would put spit in their eyes and say 'now I recon you will mind how you sass me.'

"We had a lot o' game and 'possums. When we had game marster left de big house, and come down
an' et wid us. When marster wan't off drunk on a spree he spent a lot of time wid de slaves.
He treated all alike. His slaves were all niggers. Dere were no half-white chilluns dere.

"Marster would not let us work until we were thirteen years old. Den he put us to plowin' in
soft lan', an' de men in rough lan'. Some of de women played off sick an' went home an' washed
an' ironed an' got by wid it. De oberseer tried to make two of 'em go back to work. Dey flew
at him an' whupped him. He told de marster when he come home, marster said, 'Did you 'low dem
women to whup you?' 'Yes', he replied, den marster tole him if women could whup him he didn't
want him. But he let him stay on. His name wus Jack Rivers. He wus hired by marster. Marster
Rivers did not have any slaves. Dere wus no jail on de plantation, case when er overseer whupped
er nigger he did not need any jail.

"De black folks better not be caught wid a book but one o' de chilluns at our plantation, Marster
Peter Mitchell's sister had taught Aunt Isabella to read and write, an' durin' de war she would
read, an' tell us how everythin' wus goin'. Tom Mitchell, a slave, sassed marster. Marster
tole him he would not whup him, but he would sell him. Tom's brother, Henry, tol' him if he
wus left he would run away, so marster sold both. He carried 'em to Richmond to sell 'em. He
sold 'em on de auction block dere way down on Broad Street. When dey put Tom on de auction
block dey found Tom had a broken leg and marster didn't git much fer him. He wanted to git
enough fer these two grown settled men to buy two young men. Tom wus married. He wus sold from
his wife and chilluns. Marster did not git enough fer 'em to pay for dese two young boys. He
had to pay de difference in money. De boys were 'bout 21 or 22 years ole. When marster got
back wid 'em de overseer tole him he had ruined his plantation. De boys soon become sick wid
yeller fever an' both died. Dey strowed it 'round, an' many died. Marster shore made a mess
o' things dat time.

"Dr. Ben Wilson, of Warren County wus Marster Mitchell's brother-in-law. He 'tended de sick
folks an' he made many trips. Sometimes as soon as he got home dey sent fer him again.

"We played mumble-peg an' hop-scotch when I wus a child, we played jumpin' de rope a lot.

"I have never been married. I had only one brother. He has been dead six years. Since he died
I have had a hard time makin' a livin'. Brother John lived wid me until he died. I had only
one sister. She died many years ago. I think slavery wus mighty hard an' wrong. I joined de
church 'cause I had religion an' de church would help me to keep it. People should be religious
so dey will have a place in de beyond.

"Abraham Lincoln wus a good man. I have his picture. I think Mr. Roosevelt is a good God-fearin'
man. When he gits sick I prays fer him. When he is sick I is jist as scared as I kin be. I
prays fer him ter stay well."

LE

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: The office of the State Board of Welfare is in the Agriculture Building.]

N.C. District:    No. 2 Worker:           T. Pat Matthews No. Words:        625 Subject:  
CHARITY McALLISTER Story teller:     Charity McAllister Editor:           Daisy Bailey Waitt

CHARITY McALLISTER 602 South Street

"My name is Charity McAllister. I wus here a long time before de Yankees come here. I wus 'bout
grown when dey come through. I ain't hardly able to cook my little sumptin' to eat now. I ain't
able to work out. No sir, not able to work. Done and worked my time out. I wus a grown gal
when de Yankees come. I wus 'bout 18 years old. I loves to give you de truth and I knows I
wus dat old. I wus a grown gal.

"My father wus named Robert Blalock. He 'longed to de Blalocks o' Harnett County. My mother
wus Annie McAllister. She 'longed to Jennett McAllister in Harnett County. I 'longed to John
Greene at Lillington, Harnett County. My mother first 'longed to John Greene. She got in de
family way by a white man, and John Greene sold her to a speculator named Bill Avery of Raleigh,
a speculator. Dey sold my brother. He wus as white as you is. When de surrender come mother
went back to Miss Jennett McAllister in Harnett County. Dat's how dey got back dere. I wants
to tell de truth and dats what I is goin' to do.

"I tell you I wus whupped durin' slavery time. Dey whupped us wid horsehair whups. Dey put
a stick under our legs an' tied our hands to de stick and we could not do nuthin' but turn
and twist. Dey would sure work on your back end. Every time you turned dey would hit it. I
been whupped dat way and scarred up. We slept on mattresses made o' tow sacks. Our clothes
were poor. One-piece-dress made o' carpet stuff, part of de time. One pair o' shoes a year
after Christmas. Dey give 'em to us on January first; no shoes till after Christmas. Dey did
not give us any holidays Christmas in Harnett County. Dat wus 'ginst de rules. No prayer nor
nuthin' on de plantation in our houses. Dey did not 'low us to go to de white folks church.
Dey did not 'low de slaves to hunt, so we did not have any game. Dey did not 'low us any patches.
No sirree, we did not have any money.

"De slaves slep' a lot on pallets durin' slavery days. A pallet wus a quilt or tow carpet spread
on de floor. We used a cotton pillow sometimes. Dere wus about 50 slaves on de plantation.
We had no overseer on master's plantation, and no books and schools o' any kind for niggers.
I cannot read and write. No sir, I wish I could read and write.

"I split rails and worked in de Cape Fear River Low Grounds. We fenced de fields wid rails
split from trees, pine trees. Dey were eleven feet long.

"Yes sir, I seed de patterollers. I seed a plenty of dem scoundrels. Oh! ho, de Ku Klux, Ha!,
Ha! Dey were real scandals, and I jest caint tell you all de mean things dey done right after
de war. Reubin Matthew's slave, George Matthews, killed two Ku Klux. Dey double teamed him
and shot him, and he cut 'em wid de ax, and dey died.

"I wus married right after de war. De second year after de war, I married Richard Rogers, but
I kep' de name o' McAllister right on. My husband been dead a good long time. Lawd, I don't
know how long. I been married one time, and dat wus one time too much. I have two sons, one
name Clarence, and one named John, two daughters, one in Newport News, one in Washington, D.C.,
one named Lovie, and one named Lula."

BN

District No.:   3
Worker:         Travis Jordan
Subject:        Clara Cotton McCoy
                Ex-slave 82 years
                Durham, N.C. RFD #7

CLARA COTTON MC-COY EX-SLAVE 82 YEARS

"Yes'm, I was bawn eighty-two years ago. My mammy died den an' my gran'mammy raised me. I sho
do 'member when dat man Sherman an' his mens marched through Orange County, but, it didn' take
no army of Yankees to ruin my white folks home, it took jus' one Yankee, but even dat didn'
bow my Mistis' head.

"I ain't never seed nobody as proud as my Mis' 'Riah Cotton. She never bowed her head to trouble
nor nobody; she never even bowed her head in chu'ch. When de preacher prayed she jus' folded
her hands an' set up straight, facin' de Lawd wid no fear. No, suh, my Mistis ain't gwine bow
her head no time. Young Mis' Laughter broke her mammy's heart, but she ain't make her bend
her head.

"Mis' Laughter's sho nuff name was Mis' Clorena Cotton. She wasn' tall an' dark like Mis' 'Riah;
she was little an' roun' an' pretty as a thorn flower, all pink an' gol'. She was jus' like
a butterfly, never still a minute, skippin' here an' yonder, laughin' wid everybody. Dat's
whare she got her name. Us niggers 'gun to call her Mis' Laughter kaze she was so happy. She
was de only one dat could make Mis' 'Riah smile. She would run up to Mis' 'Riah an' ruffle
her hair dat she done comb back so slick an' smooth, den she would stick a red rose behin'
her ear, an' say: 'Now, pretty Mammy, you look like you did when Pappy come cou'tin'.' Marse
Ned would lay down his paper an' look fus' at Mis' 'Riah den at Mis' Laughter, an' for a minute
Mis' 'Riah would smile, den she would look firm an' say to Mis' Laughter, 'Don't you know dat
rightousness an' virtue am more 'ceptable to de Lawd den beauty? You's worldly, Clorena, you's
too worldly.'

"Mis' Laughter would throw back her head an' laugh, an' her eyes would shine bright as blue
glass marbles. She tole Mis' 'Riah dat she 'specs dat when her man come he gwine see her face
befo' he seed her rightousness, so she gwine wear roses an' curls den he would know her when
he seed her. Den befo' Mis' 'Riah could speak her mind, Mis' Laughter done gone skippin' down
de hall, her little feets in de gol' slippers twinklin' from de ruffles of her pantalets. Everybody
on de place love dat chile an' de house wasn' never de same after she done gone away.

"My gran'mammy, Rowena, say dat Mis' 'Riah was bawn for trouble. She was bawn de las' day of
March 'tween midnight an' day. De moon was on de wane, an' jus 'as Mistis was bawn de wind
come down de chimbley an' blew de ashes out on de hearth. Gran'mammy say dat mean trouble an'
death; dat new bawn baby ain't never gwine keep long de things she love de mos', an' she better
never love nobody too well, if she do dey gwine be took away from her, an' trouble sho did
follow Mis' 'Riah after she growed up.

"When de war come Marse Ned went off to fight. He was Marse General Cotton den. Dat didn't
leave nobody at home 'cept Mis' 'Riah, her mammy, Mis' Roberta Davis, but we called her ole
Mistis, den dare was Mis' Laughter an' young Marse Jerome. Young Marse wasn' but fifteen when
de war started, but dey got him in de las' call an' he didn' never come back no more.

"De plantation was big, but Mis' 'Riah 'tended to things an' handled de niggers same as a man.
De fus' year of de war she rode a hoss 'bout de fields like an overseer, seein' after de cotton
an' cawn an' taters. But de Yankees come an' set fire to de cotton; dey took de cawn to dey
camp for dey hosses, an' dey toted off de taters to eat. De nex year Mis' 'Riah didn' plant
no cotton a tall kaze de seeds an' gin done been burned up, but she had de niggers plant cawn,
taters an' a good garden. Dat fall de wind blew de hickory leaves to de no'th an' by spring
trouble done come sho nuff. Dey was a drouth an' de cawn didn' come up; de garden burned to
pa'chment, but de taters done all right. Wid all dat Mis' 'Riah held up her head an' kep' goin'.
Den one day a buzzard flew over de house top an' his wings spread a shadow out on de roof.
Dat night death come an' got Ole Mistis. She passed on to glory in her sleep. ''Twas de lawd's
will,' Mis' 'Riah tole gran'mammy, an' she still held up her head. But Gran'mammy said dat
if somebody had shot dat buzzard an' wiped his shadow off de roof Ole Mistis wouldn' have gone
nowhare.

"De nex' spring dey wasn' much to plant. De Yankees done kep' totin' off everything, hosses
an' all, 'twell dey wasn' much lef'. But de niggers, gran'mammy an' pappy along wid dem, dug
up de garden wid de grubbin hoe an' planted what seeds dey had. Mis' 'Riah's an' Mis' Laughter's
clothes 'gun to look ole, but gran'mammy kep' dem washed an' sta'ched stiff. 'Twas Mis' Laughter
dat kep' us from frettin' too much. She would look at Mis' Riah an' say, 'We'll be all right,
Mammy, when Marse Ned comes home.' Sometime she call her pappy Marse Ned jus' like dat. One
day Marse Ned did come home. Dey brung him home. 'Twas 'bout sunset. I 'members kaze 'twas
de same day dat my ole black hen hatched de duck eggs I done set her on, an' de apple trees
wus bloomin'. De blooms look jus' like droves of pink butterflies flyin' on de sky. Dey brought
Marse Ned in de house an' laid him out in de parlor. Mis' 'Riah stood straight 'side him wid
her head up. 'Twas de Lawd's will, she tole Gran'mammy, but Gran'mammy shook her head an 'gun
to cry, an' say: 'You can't put dat on de Lawd, Mis' 'Riah, you sho can't. 'Twasn' de Lawd's
will a tall, 'twas de will of de cussed Yankees.' Den she turn 'roun' an' took Mis' Laughter's
hand an' led her up stairs an' put her to bed.

"After dat things got worse. Dat wind dat blew trouble down de chimbley for Mis' 'Riah when
she was bawn 'gun to blow harder. De war got young Marse Jerome an' shot him down. Dey won't
much to eat, de coffee was made out of parched cawn an' de sweetnin' was cane lasses, an' de
ham an' white bread done been gone a long time. Dey won't no eggs an' chickens, an' dey won't
but one fresh cow, but nobody ain't never seed Mis' 'Riah bow her head nor shed a tear.

"When de surrender come dey was Yankees camped all 'roun' de plantation an' Hillsboro was full
of dem. One day a Yankee mans come to de house. He was young. He come to see if Mis' 'Riah
didn' want to sell her place. Mis' 'Riah stood in de door an' talked to him, she wouldn' let
him come on de po'ch. She tole him she would starve befo' she would sell one foot of her lan'
to a Yankee, an' dat he shouldn' darken de door of her house.

"'Bout dat time Mis' Laughter come down de hall an' stood behin' her mammy. Her hair curled
'bout her head yellow as a dandylion an' she had on a blue dress. When dat sojer seed her he
stopped an' dey looked an' looked at each other 'twell Mis' 'Riah turned 'roun'. When she done
dat Mis' Laughter turned an' run up de stairs.

"After dat Mis' 'Riah wouldn' let dat chile go no place by hersef. I was her bodyguard, everywhare
she went I had to go too. We would go to walk down in de pine woods back of de paster, an'
somehow dat Yankee would go to walk in dem woods too. Every time we seed him he would give
me a piece of money, an' when I got back to de house I didn' tell nothin'. Den one day I heard
dat sojer tell Mis' Laughter dat he was gwine away. Mis' Laughter 'gun to cry an' I didn' hear
what else dey said kaze dey sent me down de path. But dat night Mis' Laughter put her clothes
in her box an' made me tote it down to de paster an' hide it in de blackberry patch. Den she
give me a note an' tole me to go to bed an' go to sleep, but when mornin' come to give de note
to Mis' 'Riah.

"De nex' mornin' I give de note to Mis' 'Riah, but by den Mis' Laughter done gone off wid dat
Yankee. Mis' 'Riah called all us niggers in de big room. She took down de family Bible from
de stand an' marked out Mis' Laughter's name. 'I ain't got no daughter,' she say. ''Member,
de chile dat I had am dead an' her name mustn' never be called in dis house no more.'

"We all went out 'cept Gran'mammy, but Mis' 'Riah wouldn' let her talk to her 'bout forgivin'
Mis' Laughter, an' when de letters 'gun to come dey was sent back unopened.

"Mis' 'Riah's niece, Mis' Betty an' Marse John Davis, hur husban', come to live wid Mis' 'Riah
to help her 'ten' to things, but nobody was 'lowed to call Mis' Laughter's name. Even though
dey was free, gran'mammy an' pappy an' some more of us niggers stayed on at de plantation helpin'
on de farm, but in 'bout a year Mis' 'Riah took sick. Mis' Betty wanted to sen' for Mis' Laughter,
but Mis' 'Riah wouldn' even answer, but Mis' Betty sent for her anyhow an' kept her down stairs.
Den one day de sun turned black an' de chickens went to roost in de day time. Gran'mammy flung
her apron over her face an' 'gun to pray kase she knew de death angel was comin' after Mis'
'Riah. Mis' Betty got Mis' Laughter an' when she come up de stairs all us house niggers stood
in de hall watchin' her go in to see Mis' 'Riah. She was layin' on de bed wid her eyes shut
like she was sleep.

"Mis' Laughter went in an' kneel down by de bed. 'Mammy, Mammy,' she say soft jus' like dat.

"Mis' 'Riah's hands caught hold of de quilt tight, but she ain't opened her eyes. Gran'mammy
went up an' laid her hand on her head, but she shook it off.

"De tears was runnin' down Mis' Laughter's cheeks. 'Mammy,' she say, 'I'se sorry--I loves you,
Mammy.'

"Mis' 'Riah turned her face to de wall an' her back on Mis' Laughter. She ain't never opened
her eyes. 'Bout dat time de sun come out from behin' dem black wings of shadow an' Mis' 'Riah's
soul went on to glory to meet Marse Ned.

"Yes'm, Mis' 'Riah sho was proud, but Gran'mammy say 'twon' no war dat brung all dat trouble
on her, she say 'twas de wind dat come down de chimbley de night she was bawn--de no'th wind
dat blowed de ashes 'bout de hearth."

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          Mary Hicks No. Words:       535 Subject:         A
GOOD MISTRESS Teller:          Henrietta McCullers Editor:          Daisy Bailey Waitt

A GOOD MISTRESS

An interview with Henrietta McCullers, eighty-seven years old, of 531 E. Davie Street, Raleigh,
North Carolina.

"I wus borned roun' eighty-seben years ago in Wake County. Me an' my mammy 'longed ter Mis'
Betsy Adams an' my pappy 'longed ter Mr. Nat Jones. I think dat Marse Nat had a whole passel
o' slaves, but Mis' Betsy ain't had more'n six or seben.

"Yo' ax me iffen Mis' Betsy was good ter us? She wus so good dat I loved her all her life an'
now dat she's daid I loves her in her grave.

"We et de same rations what she et an' we slept in de same kind o' bed she slept in. I knows
dat sometimes she'd have company an' she'd do a heap o' extra fixin'; but she ain't neber fix
better fer de company dan fer us.

"She'd let us have a co'n shuckin' onct a year, an' of course, we had a heap of prayer meetin's
an' a few socials. She ain't wanted her niggers ter dance case she am such a good Christian,
but she let us have candy pullin's an' sich.

"When de wuck warn't pushin' she'd let us go fishin' an' swimmin' an' all, only we jist waded,
case we ain't used enough ter de water. Yo' know dat niggers am natu'lly skeerd o' water anyhow.

"Iffen de wuck wus pushin' we wucked from sunup till dark an' Mis' Betsy wucked too. Man, she
wus a wuckin' woman, an' she made us wuck too; but I loves her better dan I does my own chilluns
now, an' dat's one reason dat I wants ter go ter heaben. All my life when I done a bad thing
I think 'bout Mis' Betsy's teachin's an' I repents.

"I plowed an' dug ditches an' cleaned new groun'; an' hard wuck ain't neber hurted me yit.
De master wus too puny to wuck, an' I often thinks dat maybe he married Mis' Betsy to look
atter him. Dey only had one man, Uncle Mose, an' so, of course, he had to have some help ter
ten' 'bout a hundert acres.

"Most of our lan' wus planted in feed stuff fer us an' de cattle. An' so we raised ever'thing
but de coffee. Sometimes we drunk Japonica tea, an' done without de coffee.

"On Sunday's yo' should o' seen us in our Sunday bes' goin' ter church 'hind de missus coach,
wid ole Uncle Mose high on de box. We can't read de hymns eben iffen we had a book 'cause we
ain't 'lowed ter have no books, but we sung jist de same.

"At Christmas time we had a party at de big house. Mis' Betsy had sabed a bushel er so o' de
lates' apples an' she made a big dish of lasses candy an' we popped pop corn an' wus happy.
Mis' Betsy always give us some clothes an' we had a feas' all through de week of holidays.

"When de Yankees comed dey jist about cleaned us out. Dey kills pigs, turkeys, calves an' hens
all over de place, dey gits de beserves an' a heap o' de lasses an' dey sass Mis' Betsy. All
dis wus dem bad-mannered soldiers' fault, case Abraham Lincoln ain't mean't fer it ter be dis
way, I know. I reckon dat most o' dem soldiers wus pore white trash. Dey doan keer 'bout de
niggers, but dey ain't wanted our white folks ter be rich.

"De Yankees ain't stayed long in our neighborhood case dey am a-lookin' fer our soldiers, so
dey goes away.

"Did I leave atter de war wus ober? Naw sir, I ain't, an' all de rest stayed on too. Uncle
Mose stayed on too. Uncle Mose stayed de rest o' his life, but I left two years atterwards
when I got married.

"My memory am gittin' so short dat I doan 'member my daddy's name, ner my brothers an' sisters
names. I 'member dat my mammy wus named Piety do' an' I 'members my fust lesson from Mis' Betsy,
'Doan lie, an' doan steal, ax fer what you needs, needs, mind you, not what you wants.'"

"Niggers ort ter be back in slavery now, dey'd be better an' happier dan dey is. I ain't neber
had a whuppin' in my life an' dat's more dan most of dese free niggers can say."

EH

N.C. District:        No. 2 Worker:               T. Pat Matthews No. Words:            1050
Subject:              WILLIE McCULLOUGH Person Interviewed:   Willie McCullough Editor:   
G.L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: OCT 23 1937 (unclear)]

WILLIE McCULLOUGH

8 McKee Street, Raleigh, North Carolina. Age 68 years.

"I was born in Darlington County, South Carolina, the 14th of June 1869. My mother was named
Rilla McCullough and my father was named Marion McCullough. I remember them very well and many
things they told me that happened during the Civil War. They belonged to a slave owner named
Billy Cannon who owned a large plantation near Marion, South Carolina. The number of slaves
on the plantation from what they told me was about fifty. Slaves were quartered in small houses
built of logs. They had plenty of rough food and clothing. They were looked after very well
in regard to their health, because the success of the master depended on the health of his
slaves. A man can't work a sick horse or mule. A slave occupied the same place on the plantation
as a mule or horse did, that is a male slave. Some of the slave women were looked upon by the
slave owners as a stock raiser looks upon his brood sows, that is from the standpoint of production.
If a slave woman had children fast she was considered very valuable because slaves were valuable
property.

"There was classes of slavery. Some of the half-white and beautiful young women who were used
by the marster and his men friends or who was the sweetheart of the marster only, were given
special privileges. Some of 'em worked very little. They had private quarters well fixed up
and had a great influence over the marster. Some of these slave girls broke up families by
getting the marster so enmeshed in their net that his wife, perhaps an older woman, was greatly
neglected. Mother and grandmother tole me that they were not allowed to pick their husbands.

"Mother tole me that when she became a woman at the age of sixteen years her marster went to
a slave owner near by and got a six-foot nigger man, almost an entire stranger to her, and
told her she must marry him. Her marster read a paper to them, told them they were man and
wife and told this negro he could take her to a certain cabin and go to bed. This was done
without getting her consent or even asking her about it. Grandmother said that several different
men were put to her just about the same as if she had been a cow or sow. The slave owners treated
them as if they had been common animals in this respect.

"Mother said she loved my father before the surrender and just as soon as they were free they
married. Grandmother was named Luna Williams. She belonged to a planter who owned a large plantation
and forty slaves adjoining Mr. Cannon's plantation where mother and father stayed. My grandmother
on my mother's side lived to be 114 years old, so they have tole me.

"I ran away from home at the age of twelve years and went to Charleston, South Carolina. I
worked with a family there as waitin' boy for one year. I then went to Savannah, Ga. I had
no particular job and I hoboed everywhere I went. I would wait all day by the side of the railroad
to catch a train at night. I rode freight trains and passenger trains. I rode the blind baggage
on passenger trains and the rods on freight trains. The blind baggage is the car between the
mail car and the engine. The doors are on the side and none at the end. I hoboed on to Miami
over the Florida East Coast Railroad. I next went from Miami to Memphis, Tenn. after staying
there a few days and working with a contractor, I again visited Charleston, S.C. I had been
there only two days when I met some Yankees from Minnesota. They prevailed on me to go home
with them, promising if I would do so they would teach me a trade. I went with them. We all
hoboed. We were halted at the Blue Ridge mountains but we got by without going to jail. We
then went to N.J. From N.J. to Chicago, Ill., then into Milwaukee, Wis., then on into Minneapolis,
Minn. Many towns and cities I visited on this trip, I did not know where I was. My Yankee companions
looked out for me. They taught me the trade of making chairs and other rustic furniture. They
taught me 164 ways of making different pieces of furniture. I spent 11 years in Minnesota but
during that time I visited the South once every three years, spending several days in the county
of my birth. Mother and father farmed all their lives and they often begged me to settle down
but the wanderlust had me and for 30 years I travelled from place to place. Even while in Minnesota
I did not stay in Minneapolis all the time. I visited most every town in the state during the
eleven years I stayed there and made hobo trips into most of the adjoining states.

"The main Yankee who taught me the trade was Joe Burton. He and the gang helped me to get food
until I learned the trade well enough so I could make a living working at it.

"I have made a lot of money making and selling rustic furniture, but now I am getting old.
I am not able to work as I used too. Not long ago I made a trip from Raleigh to Charleston,
S.C., but the trip was different from the old days. I hitch-hiked the entire distance. I rode
with white folks. On one leg of the trip of over 200 miles I rode with a rich young man and
his two pals. They had a fruit jar full of bad whiskey. He got about drunk, ran into a stretch
of bad road at a high rate of speed, threw me against the top of his car and injured my head.
I am not over it yet.

"I quit the road in 1924. My last trip was from Raleigh, N.C. to Harrisburg, Penn. and return.
I have made my home in Raleigh ever since. Done settled down, too ole to ramble anymore."

LE

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          T. Pat Matthews No. Words:       1,477 Subject:   
JAMES TURNER McLEAN Storyteller:     James Turner McLean Editor:          Daisy Bailey Waitt

JAMES TURNER McLEAN Lillington, N.C. Route 1

"My name is James Turner McLean. I was born in Harnett County near Cape Fear River in the Buies
Creek Section, Feb. 20, 1858. I belonged to Taylor Hugh McLean, and he never was married. The
plantation was between Buies Creek and the Cape Fear river; the edge of it is about 75 yards
from where I now live. The place where I live belongs to me. 'Way back it belonged to the Bolden's.

"The Boldens came from Scotland, and so did the McLeans. There were about five hundred acres
in this plantation and Marster Hugh McLean had about fifty slaves. The slaves lived in quarters
and Marster lived in the big house which was his home. Marster took good care o' his darkies.
He did not allow anybody to whip 'em either. We had good food, clothes and places to sleep.
My father was Jim McLean and my mother was named Charlotta McLean. My grandmother was named
Jane. I called my mother 'Sissie' and called my grandmother 'mammy' in slavery time. They did
not have me to do any heavy work just tending to the calves, colts, and goin' to the post office.

"The post office was at Mr. Sexton's and we called it Sexton's post office, on the Raleigh
and Fayetteville Road. The stage run on this road and brought mail to this place. This post
in my yard is part of a stage coach axle. You see it? Yes sir, that's what it is. I got it
at Fayetteville when they were selling the old stage coach. We bought the axle and wheels and
made a cart. We got that stuff about 1870; my father bought it. He gave twelve dollars for
jes' the wheels and axle. This was after we had taken the iron clad oath and become more civilized.

"We were daresome to be caught with a paper book or anything if we were tryin' to learn to
read and write. We had to have a pass to go around on, or the patterollers would work on us.
I saw a lot of patterollers. Marster gave his Negroes a pass for twelve months. He sent his
timber to Wilmington, and worked timber at other places so he gave his slaves yearly passes.
Then when the war was about up me and him went to the post office, and he got the paper. All
the niggers were free. We stopped on the way home at a large sassafras tree by the side o'
the road where he always stopped to read, and he read, and told me I was free.

"I did not know what it was or what it meant. We came on to the house where my mother was and
I said, 'Sissie, we is free.' She said, 'Hush, or I will put the hickory on you.' I then went
to grandma, the one I called mammy and threw my arms around her neck and said, 'Mammy we are
free, what does it mean?' and mammy, who was grandma, said, 'You hush sich talk, or I will
knock you down wid a loom stick.'

"Marster was comin' then, and he had the paper in his hand and was cryin'. He came to the door
and called grandma and said, 'You are free, free as I am, but I want you to stay on. If you
go off you will perish. If you stay on now the crop is planted and work it, we will divide.'
Marster was cryin' and said, 'I do not own you any longer.' He told her to get the horn and
blow it. It was a ram's horn. She blew twice for the hands to come to the house.

"They were workin' in the river lowground about a mile or more away. She blew a long blow,
then another. Marster told her to keep blowin! After awhile all the slaves come home; she had
called them all in. Marster met them at the gate, and told them to put all the mules up, all
the hoes and plows, that they were all free. He invited all to eat dinner. He had five women
cooking. He told them all he did not want them to leave, but if they were going they must eat
before they left. He said he wanted everybody to eat all he wanted, and I remember the ham,
eggs, chicken, and other good things we had at that dinner. Then after the dinner he spoke
to all of us and said, 'You have nowhere to go, nothin' to live on, but go out on my other
plantation and build you some shacks.'

"He gave them homes and did not charge any rent. He bought nails and lumber for them, but he
would not build the houses. Some stayed with him for fifteen years; some left. He gave them
cows to milk. He said the children must not perish.

"Marster was a mighty good man, a feelin' man. He cried when some of his slaves finally left
him. Mother and father stayed till they got a place of their own. I waited on him as long as
he lived. I loved him as well as I did my daddy. I drove for him and he kept me in his house
with him. He taught me to be honest, to tell the truth, and not to steal anything.

"When freedom came marster gave us a place for a school building and furnished nails and gave
the lumber for the floors. He instructed them in building the windows. He was goin' to put
his sister Jenette McAllister in as teacher. She had married Jim McAllister at the Bluff Church,
right at the lower part of the Averysboro Battleground where some of the last fightin' between
the North and South was done, but a man by the name of George Miller of Harnett County told
him he knew a nigger who could teach the school. He employed the nigger, whose name was Isaac
Brantley, to teach the school. He came from Anderson's Creek in the lower part of Harnett County.
We learned very little, as the nigger read, and let us repeat it after him. He would hold the
book, and spell and let us repeat the words after him without lettin' us see in the book. He
stayed there two months, then a man by the name of Matthews, Haywood Matthews, son of Henderson
Matthews came. They were white folks, but went for negroes. Haywood teached there. He got the
children started and most of 'em learned to read and write.

"I saw the Yankees come through. Also Wheeler's Cavalry. The Yankees took chickens and things,
and they gave us some things, but Wheeler's Cavalry gave us nothin'. They took what they wanted
and went on. Marster hid his horses and things in the Pecosin.

"When the Yankees came Marster was hid. They rode up to my mother and asked her where he was.
She said, 'I do not know.' They then asked her where was de silver, his money, an' de brandy,
an' wine. They got one demijohn full o' brandy. They went into the house, tore up things got
his china pipe, fixed for four people to smoke at one time. You could turn a piece and shett
off all de holes but one, when one man wanted to smoke. They threw away his old beaver hat,
but before they left they got it and left it in the house. Wheeler's Cavalry stomped things
and broke up more den de Yankees.

"Daddy hid marster's money, a lot of it, in the jam o' de fence. He covered it with sand that
he threw out of a ditch that ran along near the fence. The Yankees stopped and sat on the sand
to eat their dinner and never found the money.

"I have never seen a slave sold, and none never ran away from marster's plantation. When any
of his men went to visit their wives he let them ride the stock, and give them rations to carry.
There was a jail for slaves at Summerville. I saw it.

"We went to the white folks church at Neill's Creek. Mother used herbs to give us when we were
sick. Dr. Turner, Dr. John Turner, looked after us. We were bled every year in the spring and
in the fall. He had a little lance. He corded your arm and popped it in, and the blood would
fly. He took nearly a quart of blood from grandma. He bled according to size and age.

"We ought to think a lot o' Abraham Lincoln and the other great men such as Booker T. Washington.
Lincoln set us free. Slavery was a bad thing and unjust."

AC

N.C. District:        No. 2 Worker:               T. Pat Matthews No. Words:            857
Subject:              FRANK MAGWOOD Person Interviewed:   Frank Magwood Editor:           
G.L. Andrews

FRANK MAGWOOD

"I was born in Fairfield County, South Carolina, near the town of Ridgeway. Ridgeway was on
the Southern Railroad from Charlotte, N.C. to Columbia, South Carolina. I was born Oct. 10,
1864. I belonged to Nora Rines whose wife was named Emma. He had four girls Frances, Ann, Cynthia,
and Emma and one son named George. There was about one thousand acres of land inside the fences
with about two hundred acres cleared. There were about seventy slaves on the place. My mother
and father told me these things. Father belonged to a man by the name of John Gosey and mother
belonged to ole man Rines. My father was named Lisbon Magwood and my mother was named Margaret
Magwood. They were sold and resold on the slave auction block at Charleston, South Carolina,
but the families to whom they belonged did not change their names until mother's name was changed
when she married father in 1862.

"There were twelve children in the family, three boys and nine girls. Only two boys of this
family are living, Walter and myself.

"Mother and father said at the beginning of the war that the white folks said it would not
last long and that in the first years of the war they said one southern soldier could whup
three Yankee soldiers, but after awhile they quit their braggin. Most everything to eat and
wear got scarce. Sometimes you couldn't git salt to go in the vegetables and meat that was
cooked. People dug up the salty earth under their smoke houses, put water with it, drained
it off and used it to salt rations.

"There came stories that the Yankees had taken this place and that they were marching through
Georgia into South Carolina. They burned Columbia, the Capitol of South Carolina, and had both
whites and black scared, they were so rough. The Yankees stole, burned, and plundered. Mother
said they hated South Carolina cause they started the war there. They burned a lot of the farm
houses. The army, so my father and mother said, was stretched out over a distance of sixty-two
miles. Jest think of a scope of country sixty two miles wide with most of the buildings burned,
the stock killed, and nothing to eat. The southern army and the northern army had marched back
and forth through the territory until there was nothing much left. Where Sherman's army stopped
and ate and fed their horses the Negroes went and picked up the grains of corn they strowed
there and parched and ate them. People also parched and ate acorns in South Carolina.

"Father and mother got together after the war and they moved to a widow lady's place by the
name of Ann Hunter, near Ridgeway. She was good to us and we stayed there sixteen years. Ann
Hunter had three sons, Abraham, George and Henry. Abraham went to South America on a rambling
trip. He decided to stay there. He was a young man then and he married a Spaniard. When he
came home to see his mother it was the year of the earthquake in 1886. He was a grown man then
and he brought his wife and children with him. He had three children, all of them spoke Spanish
and could not understand their grandmother's talk to them. His wife was a beautiful woman,
dark with black hair and blue eyes. She just worshipped her husband. They stayed over a month
and then returned to South America. I have never seen 'em since or had any straight news of them.

"Mother and father lived on the farm until they died, with first one ex-slave owner and another.
They said they had nothing when the war ended and that there was nothing to do.

"I stayed with my mother and father near Ridgeway until I was 21 years of age. I left the farm
then and went to work on the railroad. I thought I was the only man then. I was so strong.
I worked on the railroad one year then I went to the Stone mountain Rock Quarry in Georgia.

"I got my hand injured with a dynamite cap after I had worked there a year and I came home
again. I went back to working on the farm as a day hand. I worked this way for one year then
I began share croppin'.

"I farmed ever since I came to Wake County 15 years ago. I farmed on Mr. Simpkins place one
year then Mr. Dillon bought the place and I stayed there nine more years then I became so near
blind I could not farm. I came to Raleigh to this house four years ago. I have been totally
blind since the fifteenth of last December.

"I married Alice Praylor near Ridgeway when I was 23 years of age. We had nine children.

"My last marriage was to Mamie Williams. I married her in South Carolina. We had four children.
They are all living, grown and married off.

"It has been a long time since I wus born--bout all my people am dead 'cept my wife an one
son an two daughters. De son an' one daughter live in N.C. an de other daughter lives in Richmond,
Va.

"I belonged to Col. Bun Eden. His plantation wus in Warren County an' he owned 'bout fifty
slaves or more. Dere wus so many of 'em dere he did not know all his own slaves. We got mighty
bad treatment an' I jest wants to tell you a nigger didn't stan' as much show dere as a dog
did. Dey whupped fur mos' any little trifle. Dey whupped me, so dey said, jes to help me git
a quicker gait. De patterollers come sneakin' round often an' whupped niggers on marster's
place. Dey nearly killed my uncle. Dey broke his collar bone when dey wus beatin him an marster
made 'em pay for it 'cause uncle never did git over it.

"Marster would not have any white overseers. He had nigger foremen. Ha! ha! he liked some of
de nigger 'omans too good to have any udder white man playin' aroun' 'em.

"We wurked all day an some of de night an' a slave who made a week, even atter doin dat, wus
lucky if he got off widout gettin' a beatin. We had poor food an' de young slaves wus fed outen
troughs. De food wus put in a trough an de little niggers gathered round an' et. Our cabins
wus built of poles an had stick an dirt chimleys one door an one little winder at de back end
of de cabin. Some of de houses had dirt floors. Our clothin' was poor an homemade.

"Many of de slaves went bareheaded an barefooted. Some wore rags roun dere heads an some wore
bonnets. Marster lived in de great house. He did not do any work but drank a lot of whiskey,
went dressed up all de time an had niggers to wash his feet an comb his hair. He made me scratch
his head when he lay down so he could go to sleep. When he got to sleep I would slip out. If
he waked up when I started to leave I would have to go back an' scratch his head till he went
to sleep agin. Sometimes I had to fan de flies way from him while he slept. No prayer-meetings
wus allowed, but we sometimes went to de white folks church. Dey tole us to obey our marsters
an be obedient at all times. When bad storms come dey let us rest but dey kept us in de fields
so long sometimes dat de storm caught us 'fore we could git to de cabins. Niggers watched de
wedder in slavery time an de ole ones wus good at prophesyin' de wedder.

"Marster had no chilluns by white women. He had his sweethearts 'mong his slave women. I ain't
no man for tellin false stories. I tells de truth an dat is de truth. At dat time it wus a
hard job to find a marster dat didn't have women 'mong his slaves. Dat wus a ginerel thing
'mong de slave owners.

"One of de slave girls on a plantation near us went to her missus an tole her 'bout her marster
forcing her to let him have sumthin to do wid her an her missus tole her, 'Well go on you belong
to him.'

"Another marster named Jimmie Shaw owned a purty slave gal nearly white an he kept her. His
wife caught 'im in a cabin in bed wid her. His wife said sumthin to him 'bout it an' he cussed
his wife. She tole him she had caught him in de act. She went back to de great house an got
a gun. When de marster come in de great house she tole 'im he must let de slave girls alone
dat he belonged to her. He cussed her agin an sed she would have to tend to her own dam business
an' he would tend to his. Dey had a big fuss an den marster Shaw started towards her. She grabbed
de gun an let him have it. She shot 'im dead in de hall. Dey had three chillun, two sons an
one married daughter. Missus Shaw took her two sons an' left. De married daughter an her husband
took charge of de place. Missus an her sons never come back as I knows of.

"A lot of de slave owners had certain strong healthy slave men to serve de slave women. Ginerally
dey give one man four women an' dat man better not have nuthin' to do wid de udder women an'
de women better not have nuthin to do wid udder men. De chillun wus looked atter by de ole
slave women who were unable to work in de fields while de mothers of de babies worked. De women
plowed an done udder work as de men did. No books or larnin' of any kind wus allowed.

"One mornin' de dogs begun to bark an' in a few minutes the plantation wus kivered wid Yankees.
Dey tole us we wus free. Dey axed me whur marster's things wus hid. I tole 'em I could not
give up marster's things. Dey tole me I had no marster dat dey had fighted four years to free
us an' dat marster would not whup me no more. Marster sent to de fields an' had all de slaves
to come home. He told me to tell 'em not to run but to fly to de house at once. All plow hands
an' women come running home. De Yankees tole all of 'em dey wus free.

"Marster offered some of de Yankees sumtin to eat in his house but dey would not eat cooked
food, dey said dey wanted to cook dere own food.

"I saw slaves sold in slavery time. I saw 'em whupped an many ran away. Some never come back.
When we wus sick we took lots of erbs an roots. I married Roberta Edwards fifty-one years ago.
We had six sons and three daughters. Atter the war I farmed around from one plantation to another.
I have never owned a home of my own. When I got too ole to work I come an' lived wid my married
daughter in Raleigh. I been here four years. I think slavery wus a mighty bad thing, though
it's been no bed of roses since, but den no one could whup me no mo."

LE

N.C. District:        No. 2 Worker:               T. Pat Matthews No. Words:            1060
Subject:              ROBERTA MANSON Person Interviewed:   Roberta Manson Editor:         
G.L. Andrews

ROBERTA MANSON

317 N. Haywood Street, Raleigh, N.C. Age 74.

"I wus borned de second year of de war an' de mos' I know 'bout slavery wus tole to me by other
colored folks. My marster wus Weldon Edwards and my missus wus Missus Lucy. The plantation
wus in Warren County near Ridgeway. My father wus named Lanis Edwards and my mother wus named
Ellen Edwards. They both 'longed to Weldon Edwards. Father and mother said he wus mighty rough
to 'em. I heard my mother say dat marster whupped father so bad dat she had to grease his back
to git his shirt off.

"Marster allowed de overseers to whup de slaves. De overseers wus named Caesar Norfeir, Jim
Trissel, and David Porter.

"Dere wus a ole man dere by de name of Harris Edwards who fed up the hogs an' things. He wus
sick an' he kept him sick. Well after awhile de ole marster tried to make him work. De overseers
den took him out way down in the plum orchard. Dey pulled his tongue out an whupped him. He
died an' wus found by de buzzards. De overseers wus named Jim Trissel an David Porter dat did
dat. Dis ole slave 'longed to missus; and when she found it out dere wus a awful fuss. One
of de white overseers tried to put it off on de udder. It finally fell on Jim Trissel and dey
soon got rid of him. Missus tole him, 'you have killed my poor ole sick servant.' Mr. Jim Trissel
killed several slaves an dey wus shore 'fraid of him. He knocked my father down wid a stick
an when he fell my father knocked his hip out of place. Dey whupped father 'cause he looked
at a slave dey killed an cried.

"Dey didn't allow no prayermeetings or parties in de houses. No books in de houses. No books
or papers, no edication.

"Some of de owners when dey knowed freedom wus commin' dey treated de slaves wusser den ever
before. De ole men an women dat wus unable to work wus neglected till dey died or was killed
by beatin' or burnin'. Col. Skipper did dat thing. He lived near Clarksville, Va. He put a
lot of ole men an women on a island in the Roanoke River. De river rose an stayed up eighteen
days an dey parished to death. Dey were sent dere when sick and dey died. Mr. Skipper had over
two hundred slaves. He wus one of the richest men in the south and Mr. Nick Long wus another
rich man. Nick Long owned de plantation now known as the Caledonia State's Prison Farm. Gen.
Ransom's plantation wus a part of de land 'longing to the Caledonia State Prison Farm now.
It joined Nick Long's plantation.

"Father and mother had bad fare, poor food, clothes an shoes. Dey didn't sift slave meal. Dey
had no sifters. Sometimes de collards and peas was not cleaned 'fore cookin'. Dey said de more
slaves a man had de wusser he wus to slaves. Marster had dirt floors in de cabins. Dey slept
on straw bunks made outen baggin' and straw. Some slept on wheat, straw an' shucks an' covered
wid baggin.

"Ole man Mat Bullock, a negro slave, an' his mother Ella an' grandmother Susan, also slaves,
froze to death. Mat Bullock the son of Ole man Mat Bullock tole me this. Dese slaves 'longed
to Jim Bullock who's plantation wus near Townsville, N.C.

"Weldon Edwards who owned father and mother had a whuppin post an dey said dey whupped ole
man Jack Edwards to death 'cause he went to see his sick wife. He crawled from de whuppin post
to de house atter bein whupped and died. Dey tole him 'fore dey whupped him dat dey wus goin
to stop him from runnin' away. Families wus broken up by sellin'. Dey couldn't sell a slave
dat wus skinned up. Aunt Millie, Agie, Gracy and Lima wus sold from the Edwards family. Aunt
Millie cried so much cause she had to leave her young baby dat dey talked of whuppin her, ut
den dey say 'we cannot sell her if we whup her an' so dey carried her on. Mother sed Marster
Weldon Edwards sole four women away from dere young chilluns at one time.

"We lived in log cabins with dirt floors, one door, and one small winder at de back. De cabins
had stick an dirt chimbleys.

"When freedom come mother and father stayed on wid marster cause dey didn't have nuthin. Dey
couldn't leave. Dey farmed for shares. Next year the overseer who had beat father so bad come
atter him to go an work with him. It wus Mr. David Porter. I axed pa ain't dat de man who beat
you so when you wus a slave? An pa say, 'you shet your mouth.' He stayed with Mr. Porter two
years den we went to Mr. William Paschal's. We stayed there four years. Endurin' the next fifteen
years we moved a good many times. We farmed round and round an' finally went to Mr. Peter Wyms'
place near where I wus borned.

"I wus married there to Jack Manson, 52 years ago in January. I had eight chilluns five girls
an' three boys. Three are living now. One boy and two girls. Two of the chilluns are in N.C.
and one, a girl, is in Virginia.

"I think slavery wus a bad thing but when freedom come there wus nuthin' else we could do but
stay on wid some of de white folks 'cause we had nuthin to farm wid an nuthin to eat an wear.

"De men who owned de plantations had to have somebody to farm dere lan' an' de slaves had to
have somewhur to stay. Dats de way it wus, so if dere wus a lot of movin' about de exslaves
kept doin de wurk cause dat's de only way dey had to keep from perishin'. De marsters needed
'em to farm dere lan' an' de exslaves just had to have somewhur to live so both parties kept
stayin' an' wurkin together.

"De nigger made mos' dey has out of workin' fer white folks since de war 'cause dey didn't
have nuthin' when set free an dat is all dere is to it." Although I was born somewhere about
1855, I was not born in slavery, but my father was. I'm afraid this story will be more about
my father and mother than it will be about myself.

"My mother was a white woman. Her name was Tempie James. She lived on her father's big plantation
on the Roanoke River at Rich Square, North Carolina. Her father owned acres of land and many
slaves. His stables were the best anywhere around; they were filled with horses, and the head
coachman was named Squire James. Squire was a good looking, well behaved Negro who had a white
father. He was tall and light colored. Tempie James fell in love with this Negro coachman.
Nobody knows how long they had been in love before Tempie's father found it out, but when he
did he locked Tempie in her room. For days he and Miss Charlottie, his wife, raved, begged
and pleaded, but Tempie just said she loved Squire. 'Why will you act so?' Miss Charlottie
was crying. 'Haven't we done everything for you and given you everything you wanted?'

"Tempie shook her head and said: 'You haven't given me Squire. He's all I do want.'

"Then it was that in the dark of the night Mr. James sent Squire away; he sent him to another
state and sold him.

"But Tempie found it out. She took what money she could find and ran away. She went to the
owner of Squire and bought him, then she set him free and changed his name to Walden Squire
Walden. But then it was against the law for a white woman to marry a Negro unless they had
a strain of Negro blood, so Tempie cut Squire's finger and drained out some blood. She mixed
this with some whiskey and drank it, then she got on the stand and swore she had Negro blood
in her, so they were married. She never went back home and her people disowned her.

"Tempie James Walden, my mother, was a beautiful woman. She was tall and fair with long light
hair. She had fifteen children, seven boys and eight girls, and all of them lived to be old
enough to see their great-grandchildren. I am the youngest and only one living now. Most of
us came back to North Carolina. Two of my sisters married and came back to Rich Square to live.
They lived not far from the James plantation on Roanoke River. Once when we were children my
sister and I were visiting in Rich Square. One day we went out to pick huckleberries. A woman
came riding down the road on a horse. She was a tall woman in a long grey riding habit. She
had grey hair and grey eyes. She stopped and looked at us. 'My,' she said, 'whose pretty little
girls are you?'

"'We're Squire Walden's children,' I said.

"She looked at me so long and hard that I thought she was going to hit me with her whip, but
she didn't, she hit the horse. He jumped and ran so fast I thought she was going to fall off,
but she went around the curve and I never saw her again. I never knew until later that she
was Mis' Charlottie James, my grandmother.

"I don't know anything about slavery times, for I was born free of free parents and raised
on my father's own plantation. I've been living in Durham over sixty-five years."

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          T. Pat Matthews No. Words:       680 Subject:     
A SLAVERY STORY Story teller:    MAGGIE MIALS Editor:          George L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: SEP 10 1937]

MAGGIE MIALS 73 years old, of 202 Maple Street, Raleigh, North Carolina.

"I'll never forgit de day when de Yankees come through Johnston County.

"I belonged to Tom Demaye an' ole missus in slavery time wus named Liza.

"De Demayes lived in Raleigh when I wus born, so mother tole me, but dey moved to a place near
Smithfield. He had 'bout a dozen slaves. We had little cabins to live in, but marster had a
big house to live in that set in a grove. De food I got wus good because I was a pet in de
family. My mother was a cook an' a pet. My marster wus good to all of us an' I fared better
den dan I do now. Ole marster thought de world of me and I loved him. Marster allowed his slaves
to visit, have prayer meetings, hunt, fish, an' sing and have a good time when de work wus
done. Some of de slave owners did not like marster cause he wus so good to his slaves. They
called us 'Ole Man Demayes damn free niggers.' I don't know my age zackly but I was a big gal,
big enough to drag a youngin roun' when de Yankees come through. I wus six years old if no older.

"When de Yankees come dey called us to de wagons an' tole us we wus free. Dey give each of
us a cap full of hard-tack. Dey took clothes an' provisions an' give us nothin'. One crowd
of Yankees would come on an' give us something an' another would come along an' take it away
from us. Dey tole us to call marster an' missus Johnny Rebs, that we wus free an' had no marsters.
Dat wus a day for me. Some of de Yankees wus ridin', some walkin', an' some runnin'. Dey took
de feather beds in marsters house to de windows, cut dem open an' let de feathers blow away.
It wus a sad time to me 'cause dey destroyed so much of marster's stuff.

"After de Yankees left we stayed right on with marster a long time, den we moved away to other
members of de family. Mother would not give up de family an' she an' daddy stayed wid dem as
long as dey lived. I love de family now an' I rather be livin' wid 'em den like I is. Dere
is only a few of de younger set of de Demayes livin'. Ole marster an' missus' had three boys,
Sye, Lee, Zoa; girls, Vick, Correna and Phidelia, six chilluns in all. Dey is all dead but
I can't never forgit 'em if I live to be a hundred years ole.

"I tries to live right before God an' man cause I knows I haint got much longer on dis earth.
I knows I got to lay down sometime to rise no more till Judgment Day, den I wants to meet ole
marster, missus an' de family in dat country where dere'll be no more goodbyes.

"I was married at twenty years ole to Theodore Miles at de ole Mack Powell place near de Neuse
River, in Wake County. I wus hired as a house girl at dis place wid Mr. Alango Miles family.
Dey wus some of de Demaye family. I had ten chillun, four boys an' six girls. Six of my chillun
are livin' now. Two boys an' four girls. My husband been dead 'bout 16 years. He died in Oct.
1921. Buried on de third Sunday in October.

"I have farmed most of my life an' have raised a big family. Sometimes we wus hongry an' sometimes
we had plenty. None of my chilluns wus never arrested an' none ever went to prison. I thinks
dats something to knock on wood about.

"Slavery was a good thing by all niggers who happened to have good marsters. De owners wus
to blame for slavery gettin' such a bad reputation. Some of 'em jus' done a little too much
an' sich caused de war an' give de niggers freedom. Slavery wus good for some an' bad for others."

EH

N.C. District:  No. 2 Worker:         Mary Hicks No. Words:      344 Subject:        Ex-Slave
Story Teller:         Anna Mitchel Editor:         Daisy Bailey Waitt

ANNA MITCHEL Ex-slave story.

An interview with Anna Mitchel, 76 of 712 S. Person Street, Raleigh, North Carolina.

"I wus borned in Vance County an' I 'longed ter Mr. Joseph Hargrove, de same man what owned
Emily an' Rufus Hargrove, my mammy an' pappy. He also owned Joseph an' Cora, my bruder an'
sister. My mammy uster 'long ter 'nother man what lived in Virginia, but Mr. Hargrove buyed
her when she wus sold on de choppin' block at Richmon'. He already had my pappy so dey got
married dar on his plantation.

"Marster ain't neber whup nobody, case he am too much de gentleman, but de oberseer done nuff
fer 'em all.

"Dar wasn't no Sadday evenin's off 'cept fer de wimen what had eight or ten chilluns an' dey
got off ter wash 'em up. In de rush time, dat is, when de fodder wus burnin' up in de fiel's
or de grass wus eatin' up de cotton dey had ter wuck on Sunday same as on Monday.

"My mammy wus a seamstress, an' I'se knowed her ter wuck all night an' half de day ter make
clothes fer de slaves.

"We ain't had but two meals a day an' dey wus scant. We had a few frolicks, dances an' sich
lak onct in a while an' onct a year we all went ter a show, sorter lak a circus.

"I 'members dat we sung 'Swing Low Sweet Chariot,' 'De Promised Lan',' 'Ole Time Religion,'
an' one dat goes:

    "'Dark wus de night an' col' de groun'
    On which my Saviour lay,
    An' sweat lak drops of blood run down
    While ter de God he pray.'

"Dar wus a few mo' but I done fergit.

"Does you know dat I can't 'member much 'bout de slave days? I doan recoleck when de Yankees
comed, mebbe dey ain't come ter our part o' de country. I 'members when Marse Joseph comed
out ter de slave cabins an' tells us dat we can leave case we am free. I think dat dat wus
de las' of August, case de fodder wus in.

"I still knows a lady an' gentleman do'. A lady or gentleman speaks nice ter you, case dey
wus borned wid a silver spoon in dey mouth, but de other kin' what talks biggety shows plain
dat de spoons which dey am borned wid am brass."

EH

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          T. Pat Matthews No. Words:       1,474 Subject:   
A SLAVE STORY Reference:       Patsy Mitchner Editor:          George L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: JUL 24 1937]

PATSY MITCHNER 84 years old, of 432 McKee Street, Raleigh, N.C.

"Come right in, honey, I been expectin' some of you white folks a long time from what I dreampt
an' I wants to tell you my story. You see I is umble an' perlite 'cause my white folks teached
me dat way.

"Come right in, I'm not feelin' well. My husban' has been dead a long time. I cannot stan'
up to talk to you so have a seat.

"I belonged to Alex Gorman, a paper man. He printed the 'Spirit of the Age,' a newspaper. I
reckon you can find it in the Museum. I reckons dey keeps all way back yonder things in dere
jest to remember by. He had a lot of printers both black an' white. De slaves turned de wheels
de most of de time, an' de white mens done de printin'. Dere wus a big place dug out at each
side of de machine. One man pulled it to him an' de other pulled it to him. Dey wurked it wid
de han's. It wus a big wheel. Dey didn't have no printers den like dey got now.

"De ole printin' place is standin' now. It stands in front of de laundry on Dawson Street,
where a lot of red wagons stan's goin' up towards the bus station. De ole buildin' wid stairsteps
to go up. Dey sot de type upstairs an' de machine wus on de groun' floor.

"Marster married Gormans twice an' dey wus both named Mary. Don't know whether dey wus sisters
or not, but dey wus both Virginia women. So my missus name wus Mary Gorman.

"I do not know my age, but I wus 'bout 12 years old when Wheeler's cavalry come through. Dey
skeered me so much I squatted like a rat. Dey pulled clothes off de line an' stole clothes
from stores an' went down to de depot an' changed clothes. Dey stole de womens drawers an'
filled 'em wid things. Dey stole meat, corn an' other things an' put 'em in womens drawers,
throwed 'em across dere horses backs an' went on. You know women den wore long drawers open
in front, ha! ha!

"Wheeler's cavalry tied up de legs an' front of 'em an' filled de legs an' seat full of things
dey stole. Dey jest grabbed everything an' went on. Dey had a reason for leavin'; de Yankees
wus at dere heels.

"Jest as soon as dey lef' de Yankees come. You know, dere wus a man here by de name of Governor
Holden an' de flag wus a red an' white flag, an' when de Yankees come dere wus another flag run up.

"I want to try to tell de truth 'cause I wus teached dat way by marster an' missus.

"De flag brought peace 'cause de Yankees did not tear up de town. Dey had guards out around
de houses an' dey marched back an' forth day an' night to keep everybody from robbin' de houses.

"De Yankees wid dere blue uniforms on jest kivered de town. Dey wus jest like ants. Dey played
purty music on de ban' an' I liked dat. I wus fraid of 'em dough 'cause marster an' missus
said dey were goin' to give us to 'em when dey come. I stayed hid mos' of de time right after
de surrender 'cause I didn't want de Yankees to ketch me. When de others lef' after de surrender
I run away an' went to Rev. Louis Edwards, a nigger preacher. He sent me to my aunt at Rolesville.
My Aunt wus named Patsy Lewis. I stayed dere bout three weeks when my uncle rented whur Cameron
Park is now an' tended it dat year. We all come to Raleigh an' I have lived here all my life,
but the three weeks I stayed at Rolesville.

"I have wurked for white folks, washin', cookin', an' wurkin' at a laundry ever since freedom come.

"I never seed my father in my life. My mother wus named Tempe Gorman. Dey would not talk to
me 'bout who my father wus nor where he wus at. Mother would laf sometime when I axed her 'bout
him.

"Marster treated his niggers mean sometimes. He beat my mother till de scars wus on her back,
so I could see 'em.

"Dey sold my mother, sister an' brother to ole man Askew, a slave speculator, an' dey were
shipped to de Mississippi bottoms in a box-car. I never heard from mother anymore. I neber
seed my brother agin, but my sister come back to Charlotte. She come to see me. She married
an' lived dere till she died.

"In slavery time de food wus bad at marsters. It wus cooked one day for de nex', dat is de
corn bread wus baked an' de meat wus biled an' you et it col' fer breakfas'. De meat wus as
fat as butter an' you got one rashen an' a hunk of corn bread fer a meal. No biscuit wus seen
in de slave houses. No sir, dat dey wus not. No biscuit for niggers at marsters.

"Our clothes wus bad an' our sleepin' places wus jest bunks. Our shoes had wooden bottoms on 'em.

"I heard 'em talk about patterollers so much I wus skeered so I could hardly sleep at night
sometimes. I wus 'fraid dey would come an' catch me but I neber seed one in my life.

"I neber seed any slaves sold, in chains, or a jail for slaves. I neber seed a slave whupped.
Marster took 'em in de back shed room to whup 'em.

"We was not teached to read an' write. You better not be caught wid no paper in yore han' if
you was, you got de cowhide. I darsent to talk back to 'em no matter what happen'd dey would
git you if you talked back to 'em.

"I married Tom Mitchner after de war. I went by de name of Patsy Gorman till I wus married.
Now I goes by de name of Patsy Mitchner. My husban', Tom Mitchner, was born a slave. My marster
lived whar de bus station now is on de corner of Martin an' McDowell Streets in dat ole house
dat stan's near dere now. I wus born an' bred in Raleigh an' have neber libed out of Wake County.

"Ole Dr. Jim McKee, who is dead an' gone, looked atter us when we wus sick. He give us medicine
an' kep us clean out better en people is clean out now. Dr. John McKee at de City Hall is his
son. Dey pays no 'tention to me now; guess dey has forgotten me.

"Did you say ghosts, Lawsy, no I neber seed one but our spirits is always wonderin' aroun'
eben before we dies. Spirits is wonderin' eberywhere an' you has to look out for 'em.

"Witches is folks. I neber had a spell put on me by one, but I knowed a woman once who had
a spell put on 'er, an' it hurt her feet, but a ole white man witch doctor helped take de spell
off, but I think it wus de Lord who took it off. I is a Christain an' I believes eberythin'
is in His han's.

"De people is worser now den dey was in slavery time. We need patterollers right now. 'Twould
stop some uv dis stealin' an' keep a lot of folks out of de penetentiary. We need 'em right now.

"Slavery wus better for us den things is now in some cases. Niggers den didn't have no responsibility,
jest wurk, obey an' eat. Now dey got to shuffle around an' live on jest what de white folks
min' to give 'em.

"Slaves prayed for freedom. Den dey got it dey didn't know what to do wid it. Dey wus turned
out wid nowhere to go an' nothin' to live on. Dey had no 'sperence in lookin' out for demselves
an' nothin' to wurk wid an' no lan'.

"Dey made me think of de crowd onetime who prayed for rain when it wus dry in crap time. De
rain fell in torrents an' kept fallin' till it was 'bout a flood. De rain frogs 'gin to holler
an' callin' mo' rain an' it rained an' rained. Den de raincrow got up in a high tree an' he
holler an' axed de Lord for rain. It rained till ebery little rack of cloud dat come ober brought
a big shower of large drops. De fiel's wus so wet an' miry you could not go in 'em an' water
wus standin' in de fiel's middle of ebery row, while de ditches in de fiel's looked like little
rivers, dey wus so full of water. It begun to thunder agin in de southwest, right whar we call
de 'Chub hole' of de sky, whar so much rain comes from an' de clouds growed blacker an' blacker
back dere.

"Den one of de mens who had been prayin' for rain up an' said, 'I tell you brothers if it don't
quit rainin' eberything goin' to be washed away.' Dey all looked at de black rain cloud in
de west wid sor'ful faces as if dey felt dey didn't know what use dey had for rain after dey
got it. Den one of de brothers said to de other brothers kinder easy an' shameful like, 'Brothers
don't you think we overdone dis thing?' Dats what many a slave thought 'bout prayin' for freedom.

"Before two years had passed after de surrender dere wus two out of every three slaves who
wushed dey wus back wid dere marsters.

"De marsters kindness to de niggers after de war is de cause of de nigger havin' things today.
Dere wus a lot of love between marster an' slave en dar is few of us dat don't love de white
folks today.

"Slavery wus a bad thing an' freedom, of de kin' we got wid nothin' to live on wus bad. Two
snakes full of pisen. One lyin' wid his head pintin' north, de other wid his head pintin' south.
Dere names wus slavery an' freedom. De snake called slavery lay wid his head pinted south an'
de snake called freedom lay wid his head pinted north. Both bit de nigger, an' dey wus both bad."

EH.

N.C. District: II
Worker:        Mrs. W.N. Harriss
No. Words:     396
Subject:       Emeline Moore, Ex-slave.
Interviewed:   Emeline Moore.
               707 Hanover Street, Wilmington, N.C.
Edited:        Mrs. W.N. Harriss

EMELINE MOORE, EX-SLAVE

707 Hanover Street, Wilmington, N.C.

"I don' exac'ly know how ole I is, but dey say I mus' be eighty. No mam, I ain' got nothin'
in no fam'ly Bible. Where'd I git a fam'ly Bible? My mammy (with a chuckle) had too many chillun
to look after to be puttin' 'em down in no Bible, she did'n have time, an' she did'n have no
learnin' nohow. But I reckon I is eighty because I 'members so much I's jes' about forgotten
it all.

"My folks belonged to Colonel Taylor. He an' Mis' Kitty lived in that big place on Market Street
where the soldiers lives now, (The W.L.I. Armory) but we was on the plantation across the river
mos' of the time.

"Of co'se I was born in slavery, but I don' remember nothin' much excep' feedin' chickens.
An' up on Market Street Mis' Kitty had chickens an' things, an' a cow. The house had more lan'
around it than it got now. I do remember when they thought eve'ybody 'roun' here was goin'
to die an' I got skeered. No'm t'want no war it was the yaller fever. We was kept on the plantation
but we knowed folks jes died an' died an' died. We thought t'would'nt be nobody left. I don't
remember nothin' about Lincoln travelin' aroun'. I always heard he was President of the Lunited
States, an' lived in Washington, an' gave us freedom, an' got shot. Of co'se I knows all about
Booker Washington, a lot of our folks went to his school, an' he been here in Wilmington. I'd
know a lot about slave times only I was so little. I have heard my mammy say she had a heap
easier time in slavery than after she was turn' loose with a pa'cel of chilluns to feed. I
married as soon as I could an' that's how I got this house. But I can't work, an' I disremembers
so much. The Welfare gives me regerlar pay, an' now an' then my friends give me a nickel or a dime.

"I lives alone now, until I can git a decent 'ooman to live with me. I tells you Missus these
womens an' young girls today are sumpin else. After you had 'em aroun' awhile you wish you
never knowed 'em.

"Sometimes when I jes sets alone an rocks I wonder if my mammy didn't have it lots easier than
I does."

N.C. District:    Asheville Worker:           Marjorie Jones No. Words:        2,300 Subject:
Interview with Fannie Moore, Ex-slave. Story teller:     Fannie Moore Editor:           Marjorie
Jones Date:             September 27, 1937

[TR: Cover page is in a format labeled "STATE EDITORIAL IDENTIFICATION FORM".]

Interviewer:        Marjorie Jones,
Date:               Sept. 21, 1937.
Interview With:     Fannie Moore, Ex-slave,
                    151 Valley Street,
                    Asheville, N.C.

"Nowadays when I heah folks a'growlin an' a'grumblin bout not habbin this an' that I jes think
what would they done effen they be brought up on de Moore plantation. De Moore plantation b'long
to Marse Jim Moore, in Moore, South Carolina. De Moores had own de same plantation and de same
niggers and dey children for yeahs back. When Marse Jim's pappy die he leave de whole thing
to Marse Jim, effen he take care of his mammy. She shore was a rip-jack. She say niggers didn't
need nothin' to eat. Dey jes like animals, not like other folks. She whip me, many time wif
a cow hide, til I was black and blue.

"Marse Jim's wife war Mary Anderson. She war the sweetest woman I ebber saw. She was allus
good to evah nigger on de plantation. Her mother was Harriet Anderson and she visit de Missus
for long time on de farm. All de little niggers like to work fo' her. She nebber talk mean.
Jes smile dat sweet smile and talk in de soffes' tone. An when she laugh, she soun' jes like
de little stream back ob de spring house gurglin' past de rocks. An' her hair all white and
curly, I can 'member her always.

"Marse Jim own de bigges' plantation in de whole country. Jes thousands acres ob lan'. An de
ole Tiger Ribber a runnin' right through de middle ob de plantation. On one side ob de ribber
stood de big house, whar de white folks lib and on the other side stood de quarters. De big
house was a purty thing all painted white, a standin' in a patch o' oak trees. I can't remember
how many rooms in dat house but powerful many. O'corse it was built when de Moores had sech
large families. Marse Jim he only hab five children, not twelve like his mammy had. Dey was
Andrew and Tom, den Harriet, Nan, and Nettie Sue. Harriett was jes like her granny Anderson.
She was good to ebberbody. She git de little niggers down an' teach em dey Sunday School lesson.
Effen ole Marse Jim's mammy ketch her she sho' raise torment. She make life jes as hard for
de niggers as she can.

"De quarters jes long row o' cabins daubed wif dirt. Ever one in de family lib in one big room.
In one end was a big fireplace. Dis had to heat de cabin and do de cookin too. We cooked in
a big pot hung on a rod over de fire and bake de co'n pone in de ashes or else put it in de
skillet and cover de lid wif coals. We allus hab plenty wood to keep us warm. Dat is ef we
hab time to get it outen de woods.

"My granny she cook for us chillens while our mammy away in de fiel. Dey wasn't much cookin
to do. Jes make co'n pone and bring in de milk. She hab big wooden bowl wif enough wooden spoons
to go 'roun'. She put de milk in de bowl and break it up. Den she put de bowl in de middle
of de flo' an' all de chillun grab a spoon.

"My mammy she work in de fiel' all day and piece and quilt all night. Den she hab to spin enough
thread to make four cuts for de white fo'ks ebber night. Why sometime I nebber go to bed. Hab
to hold de light for her to see by. She hab to piece quilts for de white folks too. Why dey
is a scar on my arm yet where my brother let de pine drip on me. Rich pine war all de light
we ebber hab. My brother was a holdin' de pine so's I can help mammy tack de quilt and he go
to sleep and let it drop.

"I never see how my mammy stan' sech ha'd work. She stan' up fo' her chillun tho'. De ol' overseeah
he hate my mammy, case she fight him for beatin' her chillun. Why she git more whuppins for
dat den anythin' else. She hab twelve chillun. I member I see de three oldes' stan' in de snow
up to dey knees to split rails, while de overseeah stan off an' grin.

"My mammy she trouble in her heart bout de way they treated. Ever night she pray for de Lawd
to git her an' her chillun out ob de place. One day she plowin' in de cotton fiel. All sudden
like she let out big yell. Den she sta't singin' an' a shoutin', an' a whoopin' an' a hollowin'.
Den it seem she plow all de harder. When she come home, Marse Jim's mammy say: 'What all dat
goin' on in de fiel? Yo' think we sen' you out there jes to whoop and yell? No siree, we put
you out there to work and you sho' bettah work, else we git de overseeah to cowhide you ole
black back.' My mammy jes grin all over her black wrinkled face and say: 'I's saved. De Lawd
done tell me I's saved. Now I know de Lawd will show me de way, I ain't gwine a grieve no more.
No matter how much yo' all done beat me an' my chillun de Lawd will show me de way. An' some
day we nevah be slaves.' Ole granny Moore grab de cowhide and slash mammy cross de back but
mammy nebber yell. She jes go back to de fiel a singin'.

"My mammy grieve lots over brothah George, who die wif de fever. Granny she doctah him as bes'
she could, evah time she git way from de white folks kitchen. My mammy nevah git chance to
see him, 'cept when she git home in de evenin'. George he jes lie. One day I look at him an'
he had sech a peaceful look on his face, I think he sleep and jes let him lone. Long in de
evenin I think I try to wake him. I touch him on de face, but he was dead. Mammy nebber know
til she come at night. Pore mammy she kneel by de bed an' cry her heart out. Ol' uncle Allen,
he make pine box for him an' carry him to de graveyard over on de hill. My mammy jes plow and
cry as she watch em' put George in de groun'.

"My pappy he was a blacksmith. He shoe all de horses on de plantation. He wo'k so hard he hab
no time to go to de fiel'. His name war Stephen Moore. Mars Jim call him Stephen Andrew. He
was sold to de Moores, and his mammy too. She war brought over from Africa. She never could
speak plain. All her life she been a slave. White folks never recognize 'em any more than effen
dey was a dog.

"It was a tubble sight to see de speculators come to de plantation. Dey would go through de
fields and buy de slaves dey wanted. Marse Jim nebber sell pappy or mammy or any ob dey chillun.
He allus like pappy. When de speculator come all de slaves start a shakin'. No one know who
is a goin'. Den sometime dey take 'em an' sell 'em on de block. De 'breed woman' always bring
mo' money den de res', ebben de men. When dey put her on de block dey put all her chillun aroun
her to show folks how fas she can hab chillun. When she sold her family nebber see her agin.
She nebber know [HW: how] many chillun she hab. Some time she hab colored children an' sometime
white. Taint no use to say anything case effen she do she jes git whipped. Why on de Moore
plantation Aunt Cheney, everbody call her Aunt Cheney, have two chillun by de overseeah. De
overseeah name war Hill. He war as mean as de devil. When Aunt Cheney not do what he ask he
tell granny Moore. Ole Granny call Aunt Cheney to de kitchen and make her take her clothes
off den she beat her til she jest black an' blue. Many boys and girls marry dey own brothers
and sisters an' nebber know de difference lest they get to talkin' bout dey parents and where
dey uster lib.

"De niggers allus hab to get pass to go anywhere offen de plantation. Dey git de pass from
de massa or de missus. Den when de paddyrollers come dey had to show de pass to dem, if you
had no pass dey strip you an' beat you.

"I remember one time dey was a dance at one ob de houses in de quarters. All de niggers was
a laughin an' a pattin' dey feet an' a singin', but dey was a few dat didn't. De paddyrollers
shove de do' open and sta't grabbin' us. Uncle Joe's son he decide dey was one time to die
and he sta't to fight. He say he tired standin' so many beatin's, he jes can't stan' no mo.
De paddyrollers start beatin' him an' he sta't fightin'. Oh, Lawdy it war tubble. Dey whip
him wif a cowhide for a long time den one of dem take a stick an' hit him over de head, an'
jes bus his head wide open. De pore boy fell on de flo' jes a moanin' an' a groanin. De paddyrollers
jes whip bout half dozen other niggers an' sen' em home and leve us wif de dead boy.

"None o' the niggers have any learnin', warn't never 'lowed to as much as pick up a piece o'
paper. My daddy slip an' get a Webster book and den he take it outen de fiel and he larn to
read. De white folks 'fraid to let de children learn anythin'. They fraid dey get too sma't
and be harder to manage. Dey nebber let em know anything about anythin'. Never have any church.
Effen you go you set in de back of de white folks chu'ch. But de niggers slip off an' pray
an' hold prayer-meetin' in de woods den dey tu'n down a big wash pot and prop it up wif a stick
to drown out de soun' ob de singin'. I 'member some of de songs we uster sing. One of dem went
somethin' like dis:

    "'Hark from de tomb a doleful soun'
    My ears hear a tender cry.
    A livin' man come through the groun'
    Whar we may shortly lie.
    Heah in dis clay may be you bed
    In spite ob all you toil
    Let all de wise bow revrant head
    Mus' lie as low as ours.'

"Then dey sing one I can hardly remember but dis is some of de words:

    "'Jesus can make you die in bed
    He sof' as downs in pillow there
    On my bres' I'll lean my head
    Grieve my life sweetly there.
    In dis life of heaby load
    Let us share de weary traveler
    Along de heabenly road.'

"Back in dose time dey wasn't no way to put away fruit and things fo' winter like dey is today.
In de fall of de yeah it certainly was a busy time. We peel bushels of apples and peaches to
dry. Dey put up lots o' brandied peaches too. De way dey done dey peel de peaches and cut em
up. Then dey put a layer ob peaches in a crock den a layer ob sugar den another layer ob peaches
until de crock was full. Den dey seel de jar by puttin' a cloth over de top then a layer o'
paste then another cloth then another layer ob paste. Dey keep dey meat bout de same way foks
do today 'cept dey had to smoke it more since salt was so sca'ce back in dat day. Dey can mos'
ob de other fruit and put it in de same kin' o' jars dat dey put de peaches in. Dey string
up long strings o' beans an' let 'em dry and cook em wif fat back in de winter.

"Folks back den never heah tell of all de ailments de folks hab now. Dey war no doctahs. Jes
use roots and bark for teas of all kinds. My ole granny uster make tea out o' dogwood bark
an' give it to us chillun when we have a cold, else she make a tea outen wild cherry bark,
pennyroil, or hoarhound. My goodness but dey was bitter. We do mos' enythin' to git out a takin'
de tea, but twarnt no use granny jes git you by de collar hol' yo' nose and you jes swallow
it or get strangled. When de baby hab de colic she git rats vein and make a syrup an' put a
little sugar in it an' boil it. Den soon [HW: as] it cold she give it to de baby. For stomach
ache she give us snake root. Sometime she make tea, other time she jes cut it up in little
pieces an' make you eat one or two ob dem. When you hab fever she wrap you up in cabbage leaves
or ginsang leaves, dis made de fever go. When de fever got too bad she take the hoofs offen
de hog dat had been killed and parch em' in de ashes and den she beat em' up and make a tea.
Dis was de most tubble of all.

"De yeah fore de war started Marse Jim died. He war out in de pasture pickin' up cow loads
a throwin' em in de garden an' he jes drop over. I hate to see Marse Jim go, he not sech a
bad man. Ater he die his boys, Tom an' Andrew take cha'ge of de plantation. Dey think dey run
things diffe'nt from dey daddy, but dey jes git sta'ted when de war come. Marse Tom and Marse
Andrew both hab to go. My pappy he go long wif dem to do der cookin. My pappy he say dat some
day he run four or five miles wif de Yankees ahind him afore he can stop to do any cookin.
Den when he stop he cook wif de bullets a fallin all roun de kettles. He say he walk on ded
men jes like he walkin on de groun'. Some of de men be dead, some moanin' an' some a groanin',
but nobody pay no tention, case de Yankees keep a comin. One day de Yankees come awful close
Marse Andrew hab de Confed'rate flag in his han'. He raise it high in de air. Pappy say he
yell for him to put de flag down case de Yankees was a comin' closer an' was agoin' to capture
him anyway. But Marse Andrew jes hol' de flag up an run 'hind a tree. De Yankee sojers jes
take one shot at him an' dat was de las' of him. My pappy bring him home. De fambly put him
in alcohol. One day I went to see him and there he was a swimmin' round in de water. Mos' ob
his hair done come off tho. He buried at Nazereth. I could go right back to de graveyard effen
I was there. Den my pappy go back to [HW: stay] with Marse Tom. Marse Tom was jes wounded.
Effen he hadn't had a Bible in his pocket de bullet go clear through his heart. But yo' all
kno' no bullet ain't goin' through de Bible. No, you can't shoot through God's word. Pappy
he bring Marse Tom home an' take care of him til he well. Marse Tom give pappy a horse an'
wagon case he say he save his life.

"Many time de sojers come through de plantation an' dey load up dey wagons wif ebberthing dey
fin', lasses, hams, chickens. Sometime dey gib part of it to de niggers but de white folks
take it way when dey git gone. De white folks hide all de silverware from de soldiers. Dey
fraid dey take it when dey come. Some time dey make us tell effen dey think we know.

"After de war pappy go back to work on de plantation. He make his own crop, on de plantation.
But de money was no good den. I played wif many a Confed'rate dollar. He sho was happy dat
he was free. Mammy she shout fo' joy an' say her prayers war answered. Pappy git pretty feeble,
but he work til jest fore he die. He made patch of cotton wif a hoe. Dey was enough cotton
in de patch to make a bale. Pappy die when he 104 years old. Mammy she live to be 105.

"After de war de Ku Klux broke out. Oh, miss dey was mean. In dey long white robes dey scare
de niggers to death. Dey keep close watch on dem afeared dey try to do somethin'. Dey have
long horns an' big eyes an' mouth. Dey never go roun' much in de day. Jes night. Dey take de
pore niggers away in de woods and beat 'em and hang 'em. De niggers was afraid to move, much
les try to do anything. Dey never kno' what to do, dey hab no larnin. Hab no money. All dey
can do was stay on de same plantation til dey can do better. We lib on de same plantation till
de chillun all grown an' mammy an' pappy both die then we leave. I don' know where any of my
people are now. I knows I was bo'n in 1849. I was 88 years old de fust of September."

N.C. District:      No. 2 Worker:             Mary A. Hicks No. Words:          944 Subject:
RICHARD C. MORING Story teller:       Richard C. Moring Editor:             Daisy Bailey Waitt

RICHARD C. MORING Ex-Slave Story

An interview with Richard C. Moring 86 of 245 E. South Street, Raleigh, N.C.

"My mammy wus Cherry, an' my pappy wus Jacob. Mr. Anderson Clemmons owned mammy, an' Mr. Fielding
Moring owned pappy.

"I doan know much 'bout Mr. Moring, case we stayed wid Mr. Clemmons near Apex, in dis same county.

"Mr. Clemmons owned less'n a dozen slaves, but he wus good ter 'em. De oberseer, Mr. Upchurch,
whupped de slaves some, but not very much.

"We had nuff ter eat an' w'ar an' we wuck hard, but no harder dan we has since dat time. Marster
'lowed us our own gyarden an' tater patch, we also had our own hawgs.

"Dey 'lowed us some fun lak dancin', wrestlin' matches, swimmin', fishin', huntin' an' games.
We also had prayer meetin's at our cabins.

"When dere wus a weddin' dar wus fun fer all, case hit wus a big affair. Dey wus all dressed
up in new clothes, an' marster's dinin' room wus decorated wid flowers fer de 'casion. De ban'
which wus banjoes, an' fiddles 'ud play an' de neighborin' folks 'ud come.

"De preacher married 'em up good an' tight jist lak he done de white folks, an' atter hit wus
ober an' de songs wus sung marster's dinin' table wus set an' dar was a weddin' supper fer all.

"I doan 'member so much 'fore de war but I 'members dat de Rebs go by an' dat de Yankees chase
'em. (I is on Mr. Morings' place den clost ter Morrisville.)

"De Yankees am so busy chasin' de Rebs dat dey doan stop ter bodder us much, 'cept ter kill
de chickens an' so on.

"Dar's a place out from Morrisville whar de Yankees an' de Rebels had er little skirmish on
dat trip. We could hyar de guns go boomin', an' atter hit wus ober we chilluns went dar an'
pick up de balls an' boxes of dese hardtacks whar de soldiers had fit.

"I fergit ter tell you 'bout de fust gang o' Yankees what come by. Dey wus lookin' fer food
an' when dey got ter our place dey comes in an' he'ps dereselbes ter marster's stuff. Dey kilt
all de live things, took all de hams an' sich, an' dey foun' 'bout a bushel o' aigs. Dey put
'em in de big wash pot an' biled 'em an' dey goes ter de spring house an' gits seben er eight
poun's o' butter. When de aigs am biled dey splits 'em open an' puts de butter on 'em an' eats
'em dat way. Dat's de fust aigs dat eber I tasted, an' dey shore give me all I wants.

"We went back ter Mr. Clemmons' 'fore de surrender, case when dat happen Mis' Jane Clemmons
tells us'n herself dat we am free. All o' we chilluns, Duncan, Candice, Mariah, Len, Willis,
William, Sidney, Lindy, Mary, Rilda, an' me, all of mammy's chilluns was dar at de en' of de war.

"We stayed on at Mr. Clemmons fer seberal years, in fac' till de ole folks died. My young Missus
Mis' Katy Ellis lives on Hillsboro Street, an' I often goes ter see her an' she sometimes gives
me money, so you sees de feelin' dat 'zists twixt me an' my white folkses.

"I'll tell you de story 'bout de witch at de mill iffen you wants ter hyar hit, I hyard my
grandmammy tell hit when I wus a little feller."

THE WITCH AT THE MILL

"Onct dar wus a free nigger what ownes a mill an' he am makin' a heap o' money. He married
a han'some nigger wench an' hit 'peared lak his luck all went bad. De folkses quit bringin'
dere co'n ter be groun' an' he 'gan ter git pore.

"'Long in dem times de slaves sometimes runned away from deir cruel marsters an' dey'd go ter
dis nigger at de mill. He'ud put 'em ter sleep in de mill, but dey can't sleep on de 'count
of fusses an' scratchin'.

"'Last one night a nigger what has runned away comed ter spen' de night, an' he sez dat he
am not skeerd o' nothin' De owner can put him ter sleep in de house if he wants ter, case his
wife am spendin' de night wid a friend of hern, but he 'sides ter put him in de mill.

"He tells de runaway nigger 'bout de witch, but atter de nigger gits hisself a butcher knife
he ain't skeered no mo' an' he goes on ter de mill.

"'Way in de night de nigger sees somethin', an' de whites o' his eyes shines lak lamps. De
things comes nearer an' nearer an' he sees dat hit am a big black cat wid de savage notion
o' eatin' him.

"De nigger swings his knife an' off comes one of de ole cat's feets. She gives a awful screech
an' goes outen de winder.

"De nex' mornin' de owner's wife am sick in de bed an' she' fuses ter git up. De man tells
her ter git up an' cook his breakfas', but she 'fuses ter stir.

"'You better git up, you lazy trollop', de man shouts an' wid dat he drags de 'oman outen de
bed. He am 'mazed when he sees dat her han' am cut off, an' he yells fer de neighbors.

"When de neighbors gits dar dey makes a big bresh pile an' dey ties her on hit an' burns her
up. Atter dat de man had good luck, eben atter he married ag'in."

Note: This witch story is a variant of The Old Brownrigg
      Mill by Doctor Richard Dillard.

N.C. District:          No. 2 Worker:                 Mary A. Hicks No. Words:            
689 Subject:                JULIUS NELSON Story teller:           Julius Nelson Editor:   
Daisy Bailey Waitt

JULIUS NELSON Ex-Slave Story

An interview with Julius Nelson, 77 of State Prison, Raleigh, N.C.

"I doan 'member no slavery, of course, so 'taint no use ter ax me no questions. I does know
dat my mammy wus named Ann an' my pappy wus named Alex. Dey 'longed ter a Mr. Nelson in Anson
County. Dere wus 'leben o' us youngins but dey am all daid now 'cept me.

"I doan reckon dat I is but roun' sebenty, case I wus jist five years old at de close o' de
war. What's dat, I'se sebenty seben? Lan' how de time do fly!

"Anyhow I jist barely does 'member how de ho'n blowed 'fore de light o' de day an' how we got
up an' had our breakfast an' when de ho'n blowed at sunrise we went ter de fiel's in a gallop.
At dinner time de plantation bell rung an' we'd fly fer home.

"One big fat nigger 'oman cooked de dinner fer us fifty er sixty slaves an' in er hour or so
we'd go back ter de fiel's fer mo' wuck. I sez us, but I means dem what could wuck. I did pull
weeds an' pick up apples, an' dem things.

"Dese dinners hyar 'min's me o' de plantation dinners somehow. Maybe case it am 'bout de same
quantity. Great big pots o' turnip salet, collards, peas, beans, cabbages, potatoes or other
vege'ables, an' a oben full o' sweet' taters in de winter. Dar wus a heap o' pies in de summertime,
an' honey, an' 'lasses, an' lasses cake in de winter time. Dar wus big pones o' co'n bread
all de year roun' an' whole sides o' meat, an' on New Years' Day hogshead an' peas.

"Fur supper we gine'ly had pot licker, lef' from dinner, 'taters maybe an' some sweetnin'.
Dar wus ash cakes fur supper an' breakfas' most o' de time an' hominy, which de marster had
grown hisself. De smart nigger et a heap o' possums an' coons, dar bein' plenty o' dem an'
rabbits an' squirrels in abundance.

"Did yo' eber eat any kush? Well dat wus made outin meal, onions, salt, pepper, grease an'
water. Hit made a good supper dish. Sometimes in de heat o' de day marster let us pick blackberries
on de hedgerow fer our supper. We little' uns often picks de berries, an' den we have a big
pan pie fer supper.

"On holidays we sometimes had chicken pie an' ham an' a lot o' other food. Dem wus de happy
times, 'specially on Christmas mornin' when we all goes ter de big house ter celebrate an'
ter git our gif's. Dey give us clothes, food, an' fruit. One Christmas we had a big tub of
candy, I reckolicts. 'Bout twict a year we had a sociable when de niggers from de neighborin'
plantations 'ud be invited an' dey'd come wid deir banjoes an' fiddles an' we'd dance, all
o' us, an' have a swell time.

"We little'uns 'ud play fox-on-de-wall, tag, mulberry bush, drap handerchief, stealin' sticks
an' a whole heap of others dat I disremembers right now.

"We shucked our co'n on rainy days mostly, but de marster lets us have one big co'n shuckin'
eber' year an' de person what fin's a red year can kiss who dey pleases. Hit wus gran' times
dat we had den.

"We also had regular weddin's wid a preacher an' all de fixin's an' de marster usually give
us a big supper case he knowed dat he wuz gwine ter soon habe more slaves from de union.

"Iffen de Yankees comed ter our part o' de country I don't 'member seein' dem but I does know
dat de Ku Kluxes done give us a heap of trouble.

"I'se libed a long time, 'specially de fifteen years dat I'se spent hyar, but I knows how ter
treat white folkses, an' I knows dat de wuck an' de healthy rations dat de niggers got 'fore
de war am why dey am stronger dan de young niggers o' dis day."

"We belonged ter Mr. Nat Whitaker atter his marriage. His daddy, Mr. Willis, give us to him.
We lived near Rhamkatte wid Mr. Willis, an' we wuz happy. My pappy wuz named Yancey an' my
mammy wuz named Sabra. Dar wuz two brothers named Yancey an' Add, an' five sisters: Alice,
Sally, Martha, Betty an' Helia.

"Ole massa wuz good ter his slaves, but young massa Nat wuzn't. We ain't had half nuff ter
eat most o' de time, an' we ain't had no shoes till we wuz twenty-one. We had jist a few pieces
of clothes an' dey wuz of de wust kind. Our cabins wuz shacks, an' we got seberal whuppin's
near 'bout ever' day. Fer example I had de job of gittin' up de aigs in de ebenin', an' if
de ain't de right number of dem Missus Mae whupped me. I also looked atter de bitties, an'
iffen one of' em died I got a whuppin' too.

"Once missus wuz sick, an' a slave gal named Alice brung her some water an' somethin' ter eat.
Missus got sick on her stomick, an' she sez dat Alice done try ter pizen her. Ter show yo'
how sick she wuz, she gits out of de bed, strips dat gal ter de waist an' whups her wid a cowhide
till de blood runs down her back. Dat gal's back wuz cut in gashes an' de blood run down ter
'er heels. Atter dat she wuz chained down by de arms an' laigs till she got well; den she wuz
carried off ter Richmond in chains an' sold.

"We wucked all de week, my mammy plowin' wid a two-horse plow, all de year when she warn't
cleanin' new ground or diggin' ditches; an' she got two days off when her chilluns wuz borned.
We ain't had no passes ter go nowhar, an' we ain't allowed offe'n de groun's.

"I know one time do' missus 'cides ter whup a 'oman fer somethin' an' de 'oman sez ter her,
'No sir, Missus, 'ain't 'lowin' nobody what wa'r de same kind of shirt I does ter whup me.'

"We wuz glad when de Yankees comed, aldo' dey acted lak a pack o' robbers. Dey burned de cotton,
dey stold eber' thing dey could lay han's on, an' dey tored up ever' thing scand'lous. Dey'd
go ter de house an' knock at de do', den missus would lock it an' yell at 'em dat she warn't
gwinter open it. Dey doan keer, dey jist kicks it down an' walks right in.

"Dey snatch pictures frum de side o' de house an' throw 'em down an' break 'em. Dey drunk up
all of massa's brandy, an' dey insults de white wimmen an' de blacks alike.

"De Yankees comed on a Thursday an' we lef' on Sunday. When we left de yard wuz full of dem
Yankees, cussin', an' laughin', an' drinkin'. We went to Raleigh, an' de fust winter wuzen't
so bad atter all. We doan keer nothin' 'bout Mr. Lincoln, case he ain't keerin' 'bout us. He
wuz lak de rest of de Yankees, he jist doan want de south ter git rich. Dey tol' us dat de
warn't no slaves in de no'th but we done found out dat de only reason wuz 'cause dey can't
stan' de cold weather dar, an' dat de No'th am greedy of us.

"I 'members de Ku Klux Klan, an' I ain't got nothin' 'ginst 'em, case dey had ter do somethin'
wid dem mean niggers an' de robber Yankees, who had done ruint us all. I knowed some niggers
what ain't got 'long so well an' dey done mean, case dey blame de white folks; but atter awhile
dey sees dat it am Massa Lincoln's fault, so dey gits quiet. I said dat we wuz glad dat de
Yankees comed. We wuz, jist cause our massa warn't good lak some massas, an' at dat, we ain't
want ter be free." Good. But not remarkable. used]

A STORY OF SLAVERY

As told by Martha Organ of Cary as she heard her mother tell it many years ago.

"I doan know nothin' 'bout slavery 'cept what I hyard my mother tell, an' dat ain't so much.

"I know dat my pappa's name wuz Handy Jones an' my mammy's name wuz Melisa. She belonged to
a Mr. Whitaker but atter she married my pappa she belonged ter Mr. Rufus Jones, Mr. Rufus wuz
Mr. Wesley Jones' brother at de ole Fanning Jones place; an' he owned a sizable plantation.
Mr. Jones wuz good ter 'em. Dey ain't nebber give him no trouble an' he ain't nebber whip none
of 'em.

"I've hyarn her tell a whole heap 'bout de patterollers an' de Ku Klux Klan but of course I
wuz borned atter de surrender, I now bein' jist sixty one.

"I 'members 'specially what mammy said 'bout when de Yankees come. She said dat it wuz on a
Thursday an' dat de ole master wuz sick in de bed an' had sent some slaves ter de mill wid
grain. When dese men started back frum de mill de Yankees overtook 'em an' dey killed de oxes
in de harness, cut off de quarters an' rid [HW: ter] de house wid dat beef hangin' all over
de horses. Dey throwed what dey ain't wanted away, but of course dey took de meal an' de grain.

"De ole master had hyard dat dem Yankees wuz comin' an' he had buried de silverware in a san'
bar, but Lawd dem Yankees foun' hit jist lak it were on top o' de groun'. Dey stold eber'thing
dat day git dere han's on, 'specially de meat frum de smoke house. Dey went down inter de cellar
an' dey drunk up master's brandy an' dey got so drunk dat dey ain't got no sense atall. When
dey left dey carried my bruther off wid 'em, an' nobody ever hyard frum him ag'in. Dey said
dat de president was'nt thought much of dem days.

"Mr. Jones died a few days atter de surrender an' hit 'pears lak he made a will what give all
of his niggers a little piece o' land. Somehow dis Mr. Whitaker, what my mammy uster belong
to had somepin' ter do wid it, so he went ter de co't house in Raleigh ter have de will broke
up; an' he draps daid. Mr. Jones an' Mr. Whitaker wuz buried de same day.

"Speakin' 'bout ghosts, my mammy tol' me 'bout a ghost what she'd seed an' when I wuz a chile,
I seed it too.

"It wuz closter Ephues Church on de Durham highway, an' de ghosts wuz three wimmen, dressed,
in white an' widout heads. De rize an' flewed ober de wagin an' went ter de churchyard, an'
dat wuz de las' time I seed 'em. I doan believe in ghosts much, but fo' de Lawd I seed dat
one an' my mammy an' pappy seed it 'fore I wuz borned.

"My mammy said dat she'd seed some slave sales but dat dey warn't so bad. She nor my pappy
ain't neber had no whippin's an' she said dat de wust thing she eber seed wuz a gal burnt.
Hit wuz dis way: Missus Jones had sold a gal dat she raised named Alice ter a neighborhood
'oman. Alice had been ust ter goin' to de Missus house an' warmin', so when she went inter
dis 'omans house ter warm de 'oman made her stand fore de fire till her legs burned so bad
dat de skin cracked up an' some of it drapped off. Missus Jones found it out an' she give de
'oman back her money an' took Alice home wid her."

MH/EH

N.C. District:        No. 2 Worker:               Mary A. Hicks No Words:             435 Subject:
ANN PARKER Person Interviewed:   Ann Parker Editor:               Daisy Bailey Waitt

ANN PARKER Ex-Slave Story

An interview with Ann Parker in the Wake County Home, Raleigh, North Carolina.

"I reckon dat I is a hundert an' three or a hundert an' four years old. I wuz a 'oman grown
at de end o' de war.

"I ain't had no daddy case queens doan marry an' my mammy, Junny, wuz a queen in Africa. Dey
kidnaps her an' steals her 'way from her throne an' fetches her hyar ter Wake County in slavery.

"We 'longed ter Mr. Abner Parker who lived near Raleigh an' he had maybe a hundert slaves an'
a whole heap of lan'. I ain't neber laked him much, case we had ter wuck hard an' we ain't
got much ter eat. He ain't 'lowed us no fun, but we did have some, spite o' him.

"We uster git by de patterollers an' go ter de neighborin' plantations whar we'd sing an' talk
an' maybe dance. I know onct do' dat we wuz in a barn on Mr. Liles' place when de patterollers
comed, all dat could git out scated, but de ones dat got ketched got a whuppin'.

"I got seberal whuppin's fer dis, dat an' tother; but I specks dat I needed 'em. Anyhow we
wuz raised right, we warn't 'lowed ter sass nobody an' we ole'uns still knows dat we is got
ter be perlite ter yo' white ladies.

"Daughter, did I tell yo' 'bout my mamny bein' a queen. Yes, she wuz a queen, an' when she
tol' dem niggers dat she wuz dey bowed down ter her. She tol' dem not ter tell hit an' dey
doan tell, but when dey is out of sight of de white folkses dey bows down ter her an' does
what she says.

"A few days 'fore de surrender mammy, who am also a witch, says ter dem dat she sees hit in
de coffee grounds dat dey am gwine ter be free so all o' us packs up an' gits out.

"We got along pretty good atter de war, an' on till lately. Atter I gits too ole ter wuck I
sets on de post-office steps an' begs. I got a good pile o' money too, but somebody done stole
hit an' now I'se hyer in de County Home.

"I fell an' broke my arm sometime ago, case my right side am daid an' I tries ter crawl offen
de bed. When I gits back from de hospital dey ties me in dis cheer ter keep me from fallin'
out, but I want ter git a loose. De nigger boy what helps me up an' down ain't raised lak I
wuz, he fusses an' he he ain't got de manners what he ort ter habe."

"I do not know my age. I wus borned in Mecklenburg [HW: County], Virginia. My marster give
my age in a Bible but I lost it by lendin' it out. My mother died 'fore I 'membered her. She
wus named Dinah Epps. My grandmother wus named Eliza Epps. She lived to be 107 years old. My
father wus named Jerry Epps. Marster's name wus Victor Epps, an' my missus wus named Martha.
I married Bob Penny.

"De plantation wus at Mecklenburg, Virginia, near Boylan, [HW: Boydton, in Mecklenburg Co.,
Va.] Virginia. I don't 'member how many slaves but dere wus a good number. I never heard 'em
numbered out as I knows of. I never saw a slave sold. I never saw one whupped. I heard 'em
talk about paterollers but I never saw one.

"I don't 'member when I come to Raleigh. I have been here so long. My grandmother an' grandfather
come here an' I come too.

"I plowed in Virginia, an' I cooked too. Dey did not pick any work fur me. We lived in log
houses. Yes, indeed, we had plenty to eat. I never suffered for sumptin' to eat till I come
to Raleigh. On de plantation we got plenty allowance. We had good clothes on de plantation.

"I am more naked now den I ever been before in my life.

"We went to both de white an' colored churches in Virginia. I never could learn to read an'
write. I never could learn to make a number correct. I just can't learn. I tried my bes' to
write. I went to four sessions of school but couldn't learn. I wus raised by some mighty good
white people. I wanted to learn so bad I slept wid my books under my head but I couldn't learn.

"I am well thought of at my home in Virginia. Dey have sent me rations since I been here. I
had de worse time of my life since de surrender. I don't know nothin' 'bout de Yankees comin'
through only what I heard others say. I heard 'em talkin' 'bout freedom an' de war but I didn't
know or care nothin' 'bout it. My father went to Manassas Gap to de war. I heard him talk 'bout
de breastworks but I don't know nothin' 'bout 'em.

"I wus my father's only chile. He didn't have any chillun by his las' wife. I fergot de name
of his las' wife.

"I heard 'em say Abraham Lincoln come through de south an' just learned ever'thing 'bout de
folks. He wus 'guised so nobody knowed who he wus. Yes, I heard 'bout dat an' when dey foun'
out he been here he done come through an' gone back.

"Slavery wus better den it is now. Shore it wus. I don't know much 'bout de war but my first
life in Virginia wus better den it is now. I never did have any mean white folks. De Lord made
me lucky in dat way. De Yankees took, stole, an' carried off a lot of things an' dere wus a
lot of talk 'bout 'em, but I never saw 'em 'cept when dey wus paradin'. I never seed any of
'em down dere at my marster's plantation.

"My grandfather died in Raleigh. Grandmother wus de mother of thirteen chilluns but none of
'em 'cept two ever seed Raleigh. Dey wus so scattered 'bout 'cept de two younges', a boy an'
a girl. Dey come to Raleigh atter de surrender when grandmother an' me come. We lived worser
in Raleigh den we did in Virginia, an' if I wus back home wid my white folks I would git plenty
to eat but I don't git it here. Dey sends me a little money now an' den. Here is some of dere
letters where dey sent me money. You can see by dese letters dat my Virginia white folks loves
me an' I love dem.

"I wus 'bout ten years ole when de war wus goin' on. I think slavery wus not such a bad thing
'pared wid de hard times now."

EH

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          Mary A. Hicks No. Words:       794 Subject:       
SLAVERY DAYS IN FRANKLIN COUNTY Story teller:    Lily Perry Editor:          Geo. L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: JUL 24 1937]

SLAVERY DAYS IN FRANKLIN COUNTY

An interview with Lily Perry, 84 years old, of 9 McKee Street, Raleigh, N.C.

"I wus borned on de plantation of Mister Jerry Perry near Louisburg, about eighty-four years
ago. My daddy, Riddick, 'longed ter him an' so did my mammy, do she 'longed ter a Mis' Litchford
'fore she married daddy.

"De fust things dat I can remember wus bein' a house gal, pickin' up chips, mindin' de table
an' feedin' de hogs. De slop buckets wus heavy an' I had a heap of wuck dat wus hard ter do.
I done de very best dat I could but often I got whupped jist de same.

"When dey'd start ter whup me I'd bite lak a run-mad dog so dey'd chain my han's. See hyar,
hyars de scars made by de chains. Dey'd also pick me up by de years an' fling me foun',[TR:
roun'] see hyar, I can wiggle my years up an' down jist lak a mule can, an' I can wiggle' em
roun' an' roun' lak dat, see!

"One day I ain't feelin' so good an' de slops am so heavy dat I stops an' pours out some of
it. De oberseer, Zack Terrell, sees me an' when I gits back ter de house he grabs me ter whup me.

"De minute he grabs me I seize on ter his thumb an' I bites hit ter de bone, den he gits mad
an' he picks me up an' lifts me higher dan my haid an' flings me down on de steel mat dere
in front of de do'.

"Dey has ter revise me wid cold water from de spring an' I wus sick fer a week. We ain't had
good food which makes me weak an' I still has ter do heavy wuck.

"Dar wus a slave block in Louisburg an' I'se seed many a slave sold dar. Very few wus put in
chains, most of 'em wus put in a kivered wagon wid a guard an' wus chained at night. I'se seed
many a 'oman cryin' fer her chile when one er de tother wus put on de slave block in Louisburg.

"I wus 'bout twelve years old when de Yankees come. I wus pickin' up chips in de yard when
dey comes by wid dere hosses steppin' high an' dere music playin' a happy chune. I wus skeered,
but I don't dasent run case marster will sho have me whupped, so I keeps on wid my wuck.

"Dey pass fast on down de road an' dey doan bother nothin' in our community but de white folkses
hates 'em jist de same.

"Marster Jerry tells us 'bout a week later dat we am free an' all of de two hundret 'cept 'bout
five er six goes right off. He tells all of us dat he will pay us effen we will stay an' wuck,
so me an' my family we stays on.

"We lives dar fer seberal years den I marries Robert Perry who lives on de same plantation
wid us. We ain't had but one daughter an' dat's Kate, who still libes wid me.

"Me an' Robert wus raised up tergether, he bein' five years older'n me an' I loved him frum
de time I wus borned. I know how he uster hate ter see me git dem beatin's an' he'd beg me
not ter let my mouth be so sassy, but I can't help hit. He uster take my beatin's when he could
an' a heap of times he sneak out ter de fiel's in de ebenin' an' toted dat slops ter de pigs.

"Onct when marster wus whuppin' me Robert run up an' begged marse ter put de whuppin' on him
'stead of me. De result wus marse whupped us both an' we 'cided ter run away.

"We did run away, but night brung us back ter another whuppin' an' we ain't neber run away no mo'.

"We wus at a frolic at Louisburg when he proposes ter me an' he do hit dis way, 'Honey gal,
I knows dat you doan love me so powerful much, but will you try ter do hit fer me?'

"Course I sez, 'Go long, nigger, iffen I doan love yo' den dar ain't no water in Tar Riber.'
Den I sez, 'We can git Marse Henry outen de bed an' he'll marry us ternight.'

"Rob wus tickled pink an' sho nuff we wus married right away dat very night.

"We lived pore, dat I knows, but we wus too happy in ourselves ter worry 'bout sich things
an' de lack.

"I laughs now ter think how ignorant we niggers wus. We'd do our washin' an' 'bout de time
we hung hit on de line, we'd see a string of folks comin' home frum de Prospect Church an'
we'd know dat we'd done our washin' on a Sunday." Use whole story.]

THE WOMAN OVERSEER

An interview with Valley Perry, 50 years of age, of Cary, North Carolina, Route #1.

"Course bein' no older dan I is I can't recollect 'bout de war, but I'se heard my manny [TR:
mammy] tell a little an' my gran'mammy tell a right smart 'bout dem slavery times yo's talkin'
'bout.

"Gran'mammy Josephine, an' mammy Clarice 'longed ter a Mr. Nat Whitaker in Wake County.

"Mr. Nat's wife wus named Mis' Lucy, an' she wus so good dat ever'body what ever seed her 'membered
her. Dar is eben de belief among de niggers dat she riz up ter heaben alive, like Elijah.

"Dey said dat Mr. Nat's oberseer wus kinder mean ter de slaves, an' when he whupped dem dey
'membered hit ter de longest day dey lived. Mr. Nat wusen't near so bad an' Mis' Lucy wus a
angel. She'd beg Mr. Nat ter make de oberseer stop, but Mr. Nat 'fused, 'case he said dat de
niggers won't obey him iffen he teaches dem he won't let de oberseer punish dem good an' plenty.
Den Mis' Lucy 'ud cry an' she'd run an' grab de oberseer's arm an' beg him ter stop. She'd
cry so hard dat he'd hafter stop.

"Finally de oberseer goes ter Mr. Nat an' complains, an' he sez dat he am gwine ter quit de
job iffen Mr. Nat doan make Mis' Lucy keep outen his business.

"Mr. Nat axes him ter tell him 'fore he starts ter beat 'em, an' ter set a time fer de beatin'
an' dat he will git Mis' Lucy offen de place. Well, de oberseer does what Mr. Nat sez an' waits
ter whup eber'body on Chuesday an' on Chuesday Mr. Nat takes Mis' Lucy ter town.

"Mis' Lucy am tickled pink dat she am a-goin' shoppin' an' she ain't suspicion nothin' at all.
When she gits ter shoppin' do' she ain't satisfied, an' terreckly she tells Mr. Nat dat she
wants ter go home. Mr. Nat tries to git her ter go ter a concert but Mis' Lucy sez no, dat
she feels lak somethin' am happenin' at home.

"Mr. Nat begs her ter stay on an' enjoy herself, but when she won't listen ter no reason at
all he starts home. De mules creep an' poke, but Mis' Lucy herself whups 'em up, an' dey gits
home sooner dan dey am expected.

"When dey drives up in de yard de oberseer am so busy whuppin' de niggers what has done bad
dat he ain't seed Mis' Lucy till she am right on him, den she snatch de heavy bullwhup an'
she strikes him two or three times right in de face.

"Mis' Lucy look delicate, but she cuts de blood outen his cheek an' she shets up one of his
eyes an' brings de blood a-pourin' from his nose. Den de meek little 'oman draws back de whup
ag'in an' she 'lows, 'Git offen dis plantation, an' iffen ever I ketches you here ag'n I'll
shoot you, you beast.'

"Dat settled de oberseer's hash an' atter he left Mis' Lucy went ter doctorin' cut up backs.
Gran'mammy said dat dar wusn't no more trouble wid de niggers an' Mis' Lucy done all of de
punishin' herself.

"She made de meanest ones l'arn a whole passel of scripture, she punish de chillun by makin'
dem memorize poems an' sich. Sometimes she sont 'em ter bed widout supper, sometimes she make
'em work at night, sometimes she prayed fer 'em, an' once in a coon's age she whupped. Dey
said dat she could really hurt when she meant to, but she whupped as de las' thing ter do an'
she whupped wid a keen little switch 'stead of de leather.

"Once atter she had whupped a little nigger she said, 'Clarice, dis hurt me wusser dan hit
did yo'.'

"Clarice look at Mis' Lucy den she sez, 'Iffen hit hurt yo' wusser dan hit did me I'se powerful
sorry fer you.' Dat little gal wus my mammy.

"My gran'father wus named Jake, an' he 'longed ter a family by de name of Middleton some whar
in de neighborhood. Marse Nat ain't had no use fer Mr. Middleton 'case he tried ter act up,
an' he wus a New York Yankee ter boot, what thought that he owned de heabens an' de yearth.
When gran'father Jake fell in love wid gran'mammy nobody ain't knowed hit, 'case dere marsters
am mad at each other an' dey knows dat dere won't be no marryin' twixt de families.

"Time goes on an' gran'father runs away an' comes ter see gran'mammy, but one night Mr. Middleton
follers gran'father an' fin's him in gran'mammy cabin.

"Mr. Middleton doan wait ter say nothin' ter nobody, when he peeps in at de winder an' sees
dem a-settin' at de table eatin' musk melons what gran'pappy had stole outen his patch. He
jist comes in a-rarin' an' a-tarin' an' starts a-whuppin' wid his ridin' quirt. He whups gran'father
fer a while, den he pitches in on gran'mammy.

"While all dis am a-goin' on somebody runs fer Marster Nat an' when he gits dar dere am trouble
in de shack. Marse Nat ain't so heaby as Mr. Middleton, but man, he puts de beatin' on Mr.
Middleton, den he makes him sell Jake ter him an' he pays him spot cash right den an' dar.

"De nex' day he thinks ter ax gran'mammy what Jake am a-doin' in her cabin, an' gran'mammy
tells him dat she loves Jake an' dat she wants ter marry him. Marse Nat laugh fit ter kill
an' he sez dat dey'll have a big weddin' at de house fer dem.

"Dey did habe a big weddin' an' gran'mammy wore a red dress dat Mis' Lucy give her. She said
dat she wish dat gran'father could of wore red too.

"She said dat when mammy wus borned dat ole Doctor Freeman 'tended her an' dat she stayed in
de bed two weeks. Mis' Lucy wus good ter de niggers lak dat.

"I 'members gran'mammy tellin' 'bout de Yankees comin' an' how she stood front of Mis' Lucy's
door wid de ax an' tol' 'em dat she'd chop out anybody's brains what tried ter go in. De door
wus open an' dey could see Mis' Lucy a-settin' dere white as a sheet, so dey went on sarchin'
fer valuables, an' all de time dem valuables wus in Mis' Lucy's room."

N.C. District:      No. 2 Worker:             Mary A. Hicks No. Words:          389 Subject:
TEMPE PITTS Person Interviewed: Tempe Pitts Editor:             Daisy Bailey Waitt

TEMPE PITTS Ex-Slave Story

An interview with Tempe Pitts, 91 of 307 Tarboro St., Raleigh, N.C.

"I wuz borned in Halifax County ninety-one years ago. See dis paper, hit wuz writ our fer me
by ole marster's granddaughter dis year. Hit says not only dat I is ninety-one but dat I wuz
her mammy, an' dat I wuz a good an' trus'worthy servant.

"My mammy wuz Phillis Pitts, an' my daddy wuz Isaac Williams. We 'longed fust ter Mr. Mason
L. Wiggins dar in Halifax, den through de marriages we 'longed ter Captain Hardy Pitts. Both
o' dem famblies wuz good ter me an' dey ain't neber done me dirty yit.

"De Pitts' owned ober two hundert slaves, case dey also had a plantation in Firginia. We had
all we could eat an' good, do' tough clothes. Hit's de Lawd's truff dat I ain't lakin' fer
nothin' den. When we wuz sick we had de bes' doctor an' all de medicine dat he said dat we
ought ter habe; an' we ain't wuck when we wuz sick nother.

"I 'members jist one whuppin' dat I got, an' I needed hit too. Missus Pitts sont me out in
de yard ter scrub de wilverware [TR: silverware] wid some san'. I knowed dat I wuz supposed
to scrub hit good an' den wash it all off, but 'stid of dat I leaves hit layin' dar in de yard
wid de dirt on it. She whups me fur it, but she jist stings my laigs wid a little switch.

"I seed de oberseer whup a slave man but de best I 'members hit de nigger warn't whupped much.

"I ain't neber seed no slave sales, do' I did see a whole slew o' slaves a-marchin' ter be
sold at Richmond. Dey neber wuz chained do', an' sometimes I 'specks dat dese niggers what
claims dat dey seed sich things am a-tellin' a lie.

"De maddest dat I eber git, an' de only time dat eber I cuss bad wuz when de Yankees come.
Dey stold de meat an' things from de smoke house, an' eber thing else dat dey can git. Dey
ain't done nothin' ter me, but de way dey done my white folkses made me mad, an' I jumps straight
up an' down an' I yells, 'Damn dem Yankees an' damm ole Abraham Lincoln too!'

"At de surrender did I leave? Naw sir, I stay right on dar. Missus die fust, den Marster, an'
atter dat I leaves, an' I gits married.

"My mammy an' pappy, dey tells me, wuz married in de marster's dinin' room by jumpin' de broom.
I ain't sayin' nothin' 'bout de ceremony case I ain't sayin' nothin' 'bout my white folkses,
but sometimes I does wonder why I'se red-headed when my pappy an' mammy wuz black as tar. Maybe
I is part white, but I ain't sayin' nothin' 'bout my white folkses as I done tol' yo'."

L.E.

N.C. District:      No. 2 Worker:             T. Pat Matthews No. Words:          1213 Subject:
HANNAH PLUMMER Person Interviewed: Hannah Plummer Editor:             Daisy Bailey Waitt

HANNAH PLUMMER 412 Smith Street

"My name is Hannah Plummer. I was born near Auburn, in Wake County, January 7, 1856. My father
was Allen Lane and my mother was named Bertcha Lane. We belonged to Gov. Charles Manly, that
is mother and myself, father belonged to some maiden ladies, Susan and Emma White. The governor
had large plantations, but mother and myself lived with them on their lot right where the Rex
Hospital now stands on South and Fayetteville Streets. Governor Manly owned the block down
to the railroad, and we chillun went into [HW: ?] grove, it was a grove then, to pick up walnuts
and hickory nuts.

"My father was a stonecutter and he hired his time and gave it to his missus and lived with
us. Mother was at Governor Manly's. He said father was a high-headed fellow and said he was
livin' on his lot and in his house and that he didn't do anything for him, and that he ought
to keep up his family. Mother was the washerwoman for the governor and his family. Missus Manly,
the Governor's wife, I forget her first name, did not take any particular interest in her servants.
She had slave servants for everything: a wash and ironer, a drawing room and parlor cleaner,
a cook, waiting men, waitresses and a maid who did nothing but wait on her.

"Governor Manly was a mighty rich man, and he had several plantations and a lot o' slaves.
I don't remember how many slaves he owned. Mother was given meal and meat and had to cook it
just the same as she would now. They didn't allow her food from the great house. Mother had
ten children, and at times we did not have enough to eat. We went hungry a lot. The boys were
named Fred, David, Matthew, Allen, and Thomas. Girls, Cinderilla, Corinna, Hannah, Victoria,
and Mary. All were born slaves but two. Thomas and Mary. David and myself are all that are
left alive.

"I remember that we lived in a plank house, with three rooms and a shed porch. Mother washed
clothes under the porch. The house had two rooms downstairs and one upstairs. (Oh! I have thought
of the Governor's wife's name, missus name, it was Charity.) We used trundle beds of wood.
Mother made our bed clothes at night. She also made bonnets and dresses. Sometimes she made
bonnets and sold them. The child that set up with her she gave some kind o' sweets. I set up
with her a lot because I liked to eat. Mother was allowed the little money she made makin'
bonnets and dresses at night.

"They whupped slaves on the place. I could hear the blows and hear 'em screamin' cryin' an'
beggin', but I never saw it. I never saw a slave sold an' I never saw any in chains.

"I do not remember how many children old marster had, I only remember one; he was Marster Basil
Manly. He was an officer in the Confederate Army. He used to come home with his pretty clothes
an' his hat with plumes on it. Mother tole me that before she was married Marster gave her
to his son Basil as a maid for his wife Caroline.

"Missus Caroline whupped her most every day, and about anything. Mother said she could not
please her in anything, no matter what she done or how hard she tried. Missus would go up town
and come back and whup her. Mother was a young girl then. One day Miss Caroline went up town,
an' come back mad. She made mother strip down to her waist, and then took a carriage whup an'
beat her until the blood was runnin' down her back. Mother said she was afraid she would kill
her, so she ran for the woods and hid there, and stayed three weeks. She made up her mind she
wasn't comin' back.

"The old Governor Charles Manly, went to mother's father, Jimmie Manly an' tole him if he did
not get Bertcha back he would whup him. Her father tole him he did not know where she was,
an' that he belonged to him an' he could do with him as he liked, but he was not goin' one
step to hunt Bertcha, my mother. Then the governor went to grandmother an' tole her she had
to find her. He tole her to leave the lot an' stay away until her daughter came back. Grandmother
did not know where she was.

"The niggers on different plantations fed mother by carrying things to certain hidin' places
and leavin' it. Grandmother got word to her, an' she said she would come back, but not to Mis'
Caroline. She told marster, so marster let her stay with grandmother until Christmas, then
they allowed her to hire herself out. She hired herself to Mrs. Simpson. She was good to her
and allowed her to work for herself at night, sit up as long as she wanted to, and she stayed
with her until she was married. Then she went back to old marster's.

"When the war ended mother went to old marster and told him she was goin' to leave. He told
her she could not feed all her children, pay house rent, and buy wood, to stay on with him.
Marster told father and mother they could have the house free and wood free, an' he would help
them feed the children, but mother said, 'No, I am goin' to leave. I have never been free and
I am goin' to try it. I am goin' away and by my work and the help of the Lord I will live somehow'.
Marster then said, 'Well stay as long as you wish, and leave when you get ready, but wait until
you find a place to go, and leave like folks.' Marster allowed her to take all her things with
her when she left. The white folks told her good bye.

"We went to a colored Methodist Church in slavery time but we had a white pastor. His name
was Dr. Pell. He was a mighty nice man and all the colored people loved him. After the surrender
it was a long time that the colored people had white preachers in their churches. It was a
long time after the war before any of the colored churches had Negro preachers. William Warrick
was the first colored preacher in Raleigh. He preached in the basement of the Baptist Church
now standing on the corner of Hillsboro and Salisbury Streets. I went to church and Sunday
school there after the surrender.

"I went to school in Raleigh and taught school in Ft. Payne, Alabama. My husband was a carpenter
and went there where he could get good wages. Slavery was a very bad thing. Abraham Lincoln
was one of the best men that ever lived.

"Roosevelt is just grand. He is no doubt one of the greatest men of any age. I love to look
at his picture. I love him because he has done so much for humanity. I pray to the Lord to
let him live to serve his country, and help his people."

LE

N.C. District:       No. 2 Worker:              T. Pat Matthews No. Words:           2036 Subject:
PARKER POOL Person Interviewed:  Parker Pool Editor:              Daisy Bailey Waitt

PARKER POOL

"Good Morning, how is yer? Dat front door am locked Mister, but I'll come 'round and undo it."

"I'm not feeling ve'y well an' it looks lak dey'll rob me out'n all I got. Dey had a mortgage
on my home fer $850. I paid it, an' den dey got to gamblin' on it, an' tuk it. I didn't git
de right receipts, when I paid: dat's de truf. I got a farm loan on de house part, yes sir,
an' I still has it.

"I wuz born near Garner, Wake County, North Carolina. I belonged to Aufy Pool. He wuz a slave
owner. His plantation wuz near Garner. I am 91 years old. I wuz born August 10, that's what
my grandmammie tole me, an' I ain't never fergot it.

"My missus name wuz Betsy. My fust master, I had two, wuz Master Aufy Pool. Den he give us
to his son, er his son bought us in at de sale when Master Aufy died. After Master Aufy died,
his son, Louis Pool wuz my master den, an' his plantation wuz in Johnston County. My mother
wuz named Violet Pool. She died in child-birth two years atter I wuz born. My father wuz named
Peter Turner. He belonged to John Turner in Johnston County, right near Clayton.

"My grandfather, I had two grandfathers, one on my mother's side and one on my father's side.
On my mother's side Tom Pool, on my father's side Jerry Beddingfield. I never seed my great-grandparents,
but my great-grandfather wuz name Buck. He wuz right out o' Africa. His wife wuz name Hagar.
I never have seen dem, but my grandmother wuz deir daughter. Dey had three chillun here in
America. My grandmammie and grandfather told me this. My brothers were name, oldest one, Haywood,
den Lem, an' Peter, an' me, Parker Pool. De girls, oldest girl wuz Minerva Rilla.

"I had good owners. My missus and master dey took jes as good keer o' me as they could. Dey
wuz good to all de han's. Dey giv' us plenty to eat, an' we had plenty o' clothes, sich as
they wuz, but de wuz no sich clothes as we have now. Dey treated us good, I will have to say
dat. Dey are dead in their graves, but I will have to say dis fer 'em. Our houses were in de
grove. We called master's house 'de great house'. We called our homes 'de houses'. We had good
places ter sleep.

"We got up at light. I had to do most o' the nursin' o' de chillun, case when choppin' time
come de women had to go to work. We had plenty ter eat, an' we et it. Our some'in to eat wuz
well fixed an' cooked. We caught a lot o' 'possums, coons an' other game, but I tell yer a
coon is a lot harder to ketch den a possum. We had one garden, an' de colored people tended
the garden, an' we all et out'n it.

"Dere wuz about 2000 acres in de plantation. All de farm lan' wuz fenced in wid wood rails.
De hogs, cows an' stock wuz turned out in de woods, an' let go. The cows wuz drived home at
night, dat is if dey didn't come up. Dat is so we could milk de ones we wanted ter milk.

"We dug ditches to drain de lan', blin' ditches; we dug 'em an' den put poles on top, an' covered
'em wid brush an' dirt. We put de brush on de poles to keep de dirt from runnin' through. Den
we ploughed over de ditches.

"We tanned our leather in a tan trough. We used white oak bark an' red oak bark. Dey put copperas
in it too, I think.

"I knows how to raise flax. You grow it an' when it is grown you pull it clean up out of de
groun' till it kinder rots. Dey have what dey called a brake, den it wuz broke up in dat. De
bark wuz de flax. Dey had a stick called a swingle stick, made kinder like a sword. Dey used
dis to knock de sticks out o' de flax. Dey would den put de flax on a hackle, a board wid a
lot of pegs in it. Den dey clean an' string it out till it looks lak your hair. Dey flax when
it came from de hackles wuz ready for de wheel whur it wuz spun into thread. I tell you, you
couldn't break it either.

"When it wuz spun into thread dey put it on a reel. It turned 100 times and struck, when it
struck it wuz called a cut. When it come from de wheel it wuz called a broach. De cuts stood
fer so much flax. So many cuts made a yard, but dere wuz more ter do, size it, and hank it
before it wuz weaved. Most of the white people had flax clothes.

"We had no church on de plantation. We had prayer meetin' an' candy pullin's, an' we would
ask slaves from udder plantations. My master had no public corn shuckin's. His slaves shucked
his corn. He had about 50 head. De slaves dey went to de white folks church. Dey had a place
separate from de white folks by a railin'. We could look at de preacher an' hear him preach too.

"No, sirree, dey wouldn't let us have no books. Dey would not let none o' de chilluns tell
us anything about a book. I cain't read an' write, not a bit. Dey preached ter us to obey our
master. Preacher John Ellington wuz my favorite preacher. No nigger wuz allowed ter preach.
Dey wuz allowed ter pray and shout sometimes, but dey better not be ketched wid a book. De
songs dat dey sung den, dey hardly ever sing 'em now. Dey were de good ole songs. 'Hark from
de tomb de doleful sound'. 'My years are tender,' 'Cry, You livin' man,' 'Come view dis groun'
where we must shortly lie'.

"No one ran away from our plantation, but dey did from some other plantations. When some o'
de niggers were carried by their masters to wait on 'em as servants up no'th, some o' de other
people would see how dey were treated an' git 'em to run away. When dere master started home
dey couldn't find 'em. Dey took and educated 'em and made women an' men out'en 'em.

"We visited at night during slavery time. De men went courtin'. When a man, a slave, loved
a 'oman on another plantation dey axed der master, sometimes de master would ax de other master.
If dey agreed all de slave man an' 'oman had ter de [HW: do] Sa'dy night wuz fer him to come
over an' dey would go to bed together. Dere wuz no marriage--until atter de surrender. All
who wanted to keep de same 'oman atter de surrender had to pay 25¢ fer er marriage license,
den $1.50, den $3.00. If de magistrate married you, you didn't have to pay anything, less he
charged you.

"We got de holidays, Christmas, and atter lay-by-time o' de crops. Dey had big dinners den.
Dey had big tables set in de yard, de rations wuz spread on 'em, an' everybody et. We had brandy
at Christmas.

"I have been whupped twice, an' I have seen slaves whupped. Ha! Ha! missus whupped me. She
wouldn't let nobody else whup me neither. I 'members what it wuz about as if it wuz yesterday.
She wuz fretted 'bout de cook. We wuz skinnin' i'sh taters. She tole us to make haste, if we
didn't make haste an' peel de taters she would whack us down. I laughed, she sent me to git
a switch. She hit me on de legs. When we were whupped we would say, 'oh! pray,' and dey would
quit. If you acted stubborn dey would whup you more. She axed me, 'ain't you gwine ter say
'oh! pray?' I wuz mad. She wuz not hurtin' me much, an' I wouldn't say nuthin'. Atter awhile
I said, 'oh! pray', an' she quit. I had good owners all o' dem. My masters never did hit me.
Missus would not whup me much. She jes wanted ter show off sometimes.

"We had good doctors when we got sick. I 'members Dr. James o' Clayton comin' to our house.
Dey carried dere pills an' medicine den, an' lef' it at de house fer you.

"My master had a son in de war, Walter Pool. He wuz a footso'dier at first. He got sick an'
he come home sick on er furlough. He hired er man to go in his place at first, den de man went.
Atter awhile de men got so skurce, he had to go agin; den he got de chance to go in de cavalry.
Ole master bought him a horse, an' he could ride nex' time. He belonged to the 1st. Ga. Reg.
2nd Cavalry Gen. Dange's Brigade, C. Co. N.C. Volunteers.

"I saw de Confederates' General Johnson come through Clayton, an' de Yankees come de 2nd [HW:
second] day atter dey come through. I think I seed enough Yankees come through dere to whup
anything on God's earth. De Yankees camped three miles from our plantation at Mrs. Widow Sarah
Saunders across White Oak Creek on de Averysboro road. Her son, Capt. Ed. Saunders wuz in de
Confederate Army. She wuz a big slave owner. She had about 100 slaves. She wuz called a rich 'oman.

"De Yankees played songs o' walkin' de streets of Baltimore an' walkin' in Maryland. Dey really
played it. Dey slaughtered cows and sometimes only et de liver. I went to de camp atter dey
lef' an' it wuz de awfulest stink I ever smelt in my life. Dey lef' dem cows part o' 'em lying
whur dey were in de camp. Dey killed geese an' chickens, an' skinned 'em. Sometimes dey skinned
de hind quarters uv a cow, cut 'em off an' lef' de res'.

"When dey tole me I wuz free I didn't notice it, I stayed on and worked jest lak I had been
doin', right on wid missus and master. I stayed dere a year atter de surrender.

"I dunno what ter think o' Abraham Lincoln. Dey said he wuz all right. I guess he wuz a man
God loved, er all right man. I think some o' de slaves wuz better off when dey had owners and
wuz in slavery den dey is now. De colored people are slaves now more den dey wuz den. I can
show you wherein de nigger's got all his expenses ter bear now. He gits his pay out'en de white
man and de white man don't pay him much. De nigger in de South is jest as much a slave as ever.
De nigger now is a better slave den when dey owned him, 'cause he has his own expenses to bear.
If you works a horse an' doan have him ter feed, you is better off, dan if you had ter feed
and care fer him. Dat is de way dat thing is now.

"I seed many patterollers durin' slavery. If dey caught you out at night without a pass dey
would whup you.

"I think Mr. Roosevelt is a mighty nice man. He has done me a lot o' good. No man can make
times real good till everybody is put to work. Wid de lan' lyin' out dere can't be real good
times. Dis is my 'lustration. My horse died las' year. I ain't got no money ter buy nother
and can't git one. You see dat lan' lyin' out dere I have farmed it every year fer a long time.
Through part o' de year I always had vegetables and sich ter sell, but now my horse is dead
an' I can't farm no more. I ain't got nothin' ter sell. I is bad out o' heart. I shore hope
sumpin' will be done fer me."

N.C. District:       No. 2 Worker:              T. Pat Matthews No. Words:           779 Subject:
RENA RAINES Person Interviewed:  Rena Raines Editor:              G.L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: AUG 17 1937]

RENA RAINES

"I wus three years ole when de Yankees come through. I do not 'member much 'bout slavery, but
I knows a lot my mother tole me.

"My mother wus named Vicey Rogers an' my father wus named Bob Hunter. He 'longed ter de Hunters
of Wake County an' mother longed ter Marster John Rogers. Her missus' name wus Ann Rogers.
I 'members my grandfather on my mother's side but do not 'member any more of my grandparents.

"Marse John Rogers wus a ole batchelor before he wus married an' he had 'bout twelve slaves
when he married Mis' Ann Hunter. She owned one slave, a colored boy, when she wus married.
Her father gave her the slave. The plantation wus between Apex an' Holly Springs in Wake County.
All my people lived in Wake County an' I wus born on de plantation. Marster wus good ter his
niggers before he wus married, but when she came in it got mighty rough. It got wusser an'
wusser till 'bout de time of de surrender. De place wus a Hell on earth, mother said, if dere
could ever be one. Missus had slaves whupped fur most any little thing an' den she wud not
allow 'em to have much ter eat. My mother tole me all about it, atter de surrender. Mother
said Missus runned the plantation an' made it hard fur all de slaves. She jist liked ter see
slaves beat almost ter death. Dere wus a lot of niggers whupped in dat neighborhood by the
overseers, owners an' patterollers.

"Slaves wus sold 'round from one to a nother 'mongst de white folks. Mother said you jist couldn't
tell when you would git whupped. De wurk wus hard from sun to sun. Poor food ter eat, poor
clothes, barefooted most of de time, an' a general hard time, till freedom put an end to it.
My mother tole me ole man Pasqual Bert who lived near 'em in Wake County had his niggers whupped
all day sometimes. He beat 'em unmercifully an sometimes made away wid 'em an' dey wus not
seed no more. She said de way he whupped his slaves wus ter lay 'em up an' down on a log wid
de bark off. He made 'em lie flat down on dere stomachs an' den buckled 'em on den de overseers
beat 'em unmercifully. One time a overseer's wife heard a pat, pat, pat, down at de whuppin'
log an' she ax him what it wus an' why he beat niggers from sun to sun an he tole her ole man
Bert made 'im do it or else leave. So his wife says 'We will leave, you must not beat any more
niggers if we perish to death,' an de overseer left. Mother said ole man Bert fed his little
niggers out of a trough like hogs. Ole man Bert also had niggers tied to barrels an whupped.

"De grown slaves got one pair shoes a year. Dey wus give ter dem at Xmas. an de chillun didn't
have no shoes at all. De clothes wus homemade. De houses wus made out of logs an had stick
an dirt chimleys to 'em. De sleepin' places wus bunks fer de grown niggers an de chillun slept
on de floor on pallets. A pallet wus made by spreadin' a quilt made of towbaggin' or rags on
de floor, dat's where de chillun slept in our neighborhood before de surrender.

"Mother and father married by jumpin' de broom. Dey put de broom down on de floor den day helt
one another's hands an den dey jumped de broom, den day went ter de slave house an' went ter
bed. Mother an' father come ter Raleigh atter de surrender an wus married right. Mother an'
father lef' ole man Rogers as soon as dey wus free. Dey lived on hardtack an' pickled meat
de Yankees give for sometimes den dey went an' stayed wid Mr. Gray Jones an' when I wus a great
big girl we lef' an moved ter Chatham County. Pa bought a place, paid for it, built a little
house on it an' lived dere until he died.

"I married in Chatham County an' lived dere till my husband died den I kept stayin' till all
my chillun married off an' I come ter Raleigh ter live wid my son. I had four chilluns. Dey
are all dead but de one I live wid.

"I have been unable to git out of de house widout help fur a long time. I have heart trouble
an' high blood pressure. Slavery wus a right bad thing. I thank God it is over." My mammy wus
named Annice an' my father wus named Calvin Jones. My brothers wus named Thomas, Wesley, Charlie,
Henry an' William.

"We wus borned free, my mammy bein' de daughter of a white 'oman, an' my paw's paw onct saved
do life o' his master's chile, an' wus freed.

"My paw wus a shoemaker an' he made a putty good livin' fer us. Course we ain't knowed so much
'bout slavery, but Doctor Manning who lived near us owned some slaves an' he treated 'em bad.
We could hyar 'em screamin' at de top of dere voices onct in a while, an' when dey got through
beatin' 'em dey wus tied down in de cellar. Dey ain't had much ter eat nother.

"Dar wus a preacher what tol' us 'bout a member of his congregation durin' de war. De wife
wus sold from de husban' an' he married ag'in. Atter de war his fust wife comed back an' atter
his secon' wife died he married de fust one ober ag'in." She resides near the northern city
limits of Selma.

"I reckin dat I is somers 'bout sixty year old. Anyhow I wus ten or twelve when de Yankees
come ter Marse Ransome Bridgers' place near Clayton. Dat's whar I wus borned an' my pappy,
my mammy an' we 'leben chilluns 'longed ter Marse Ransome an' Mis' Adeline. Dar wus also young
Marse George an' young Miss Betsy who I 'longed to.

"Mis' Adeline wus little an' puny an' Marse Ransome wus big an' stout, dat's why it am funny
dat mammy won't let Mis' Adeline whup her but she don't say nothin' when de marster gits de
whup. Dere ain't nobody got many whuppin's nohow an' a slave on marster's place had ter be
mean ter git a whuppin'. You see mammy would sass dem all.

"We ain't heard much 'bout de war, nothin' lak we heard 'bout de world war. I knows dat nobody
from our plantation ain't gone ter dat war case Marse Ransome was too old an' Marse George
wus a patteroller, or maybe he wus just too young. Dar was a little bit of talk but most of
it we ain't heard. I tended to de slave babies, but my mammy what cooked in de big house heard
some of de war talk an' I heard her a-talkin' to pappy about it. When she seed me a-listenin'
she said dat she'd cut my year off iffen I told it. I had seen some of de slaves wid clipped
years an' I wanted to keep mine, so I ain't said nothin'.

"One day Mis' Betsy come out ter de yard an' she sez ter we chilluns, 'You has got de habit
of runnin' ter de gate to see who can say howdy first to our company, well de Yankees will
be here today or tomorrow an' dey ain't our company. In fact iffen yo' runs ter de gate ter
meet dem dey will shoot you dead.'

"Ober late dat evenin' I heard music an' I runs ter de gate ter see whar it am. Comin' down
de road as fast as dey can I sees a bunch of men wid gray suits on a-ridin' like de debil.
Dey don't stop at our house at all but later I heard dat dey wus Wheeler's cavalry, de very
meanest of de Rebs, though 'tis said dat dey wus brave in battle.

"About a hour atter Wheeler's men come by de Yankees hove into sight. De drums wus beatin',
de flags wavin' an' de hosses prancin' high. We niggers has been teached dat de Yankees will
kill us, men women an' chilluns. De whole hundert or so of us runs an' hides.

"Yes mam, I 'members de blue uniforms an' de brass buttons, an' I 'members how dey said as
dey come in de gate dat dey has as good as won de war, an' dat dey ort ter hang de southern
men what won't go ter war.

"I reckin dat dey talk purty rough ter Marse Ransome. Anyhow, mammy tells de Yankee Captain
dat he ort ter be 'shamed of talkin' ter a old man like dat. Furder more, she tells dem dat
iffen dat's de way dey're gwine ter git her freedom, she don't want it at all. Wid dat mammy
takes Mis' Betsy upstairs whar de Yankees won't be a-starin' at her.

"One of de Yankees fin's me an' axes me how many pairs of shoes I gits a year. I tells him
dat I gits one pair. Den he axes me what I wears in de summertime. When I tells him dat I ain't
wear nothin' but a shirt, an' dat I goes barefooted in de summer, he cusses awful an' he damns
my marster.

"Mammy said dat dey tol' her an' pappy dat dey'd git some land an' a mule iffen dey wus freed.
You see dey tried ter turn de slaves agin dere marsters.

"At de surrender most of de niggers left, but me an' my family stayed fer wages. We ain't really
had as good as we done before de war, an' 'cides dat we has ter worry about how we're goin'
ter live.

"We stayed dar at de same place, de ole Zola May place, on de Wake an' Johnston line, fer four
or five years an' I went to school a little bit. Atter we left dar we went to Mr. John H. Wilson's
place near Wilson's Mill. It wus at de end of dese ten years dat mammy wus gwine ter whup Bill,
my brother, so he went off ter Louisanna an' we ain't seed him since.

"At de end of dis time I married Barney Richardson an' we had three chilluns, who am all dead
now. We worked an' slaved till we bought dis house an' paid fer it, den in 1918 he died. I
married John Haskins de second time but he's been dead now fer about ten years.

"I told you dat I owned dis shack but you see how de top has come ter pieces an' de steps has
fell down. I'm behind in my taxes too so I'm 'spectin' dem ter take it away from me at any
time. I has been dependent on de white folks now fer four or five years. De county gives me
two dollars a month an' de white folks gives me a little now an' den. You see dat I can't straighten
up so I can't work in five years.

"Drawin' water out of dat well wid no curb shore bothers me too, come an' look at it."

I looked at the well and in the well and was horrified. There was no curbing at all, only a
few rotting planks laid over the hole, and on these she stood right over the water while she
drew up the heavy bucket with a small rope and without the aid of a wheel. "I reckin dat some
of dese days somebody will draw me outen dis well," she continued briskly. "Anyhow hit don't
matter much.

"You see dat little patch, wid de roastin' ears comin' an' de peas a-bloomin'. I grubbed it
up wid my hoe an' planted it myself. Iffen you can spare it I wish you'd give me a quarter
an' iffen you're round here 'bout three weeks stop an' git you a mess of peas."

"I am 80 years old, you know after 79 comes 80, dats how old I am. A year ago, a little over
a year ago, I wus 79 by de age in de Bible. My son Ernest Riddick tole me dat. He is gone to
Greensboro to work. He carried de Bible wid him. If I had de Bible I could tell de story better
den I can. My full name is Charity Riddick and my husband wus Weldon Riddick. He is dead. My
father wus named Lewis Jones. Mother wus named Haley Jones. I had three brothers, Washington,
William and Turner, two sisters Mary and Celia. All my people are dead except my sons. I have
three sons livin'.

"I got sick an' I got way down in my taxes. I am payin' a dollar on' em every time I can get
it. I ain't able to work much. I chops in de garden to make a little to eat. My sons help me
some. Dey have children you know, but dey send me a little. Dey is all married. One has eight
chillun, the other five chillun and de third has four chillun. Dey can't help me much.

"I belonged to Madison Pace in slavery time. He dead an' gone long ago do'. My missus wus name
Mis' Annie Pace. Sometimes I got plenty to eat and sometimes I didn't. All I got came through
my mother from marster and missus. I was in my mother's care. I wus so young dey didn't have
much to do with me. The plantation wus about three miles east o' Raleigh.

"Dis house did belong to me, but I am a long way behind on it. Dey lets me stay here and pay
what I kin. I rents a room to an old lady fer 75 cents a week. I buys oil and wood wid it.
De lights has been cut off. I uses a oil lamp fur light. Lights done cut off. I can't pay light
rent, no sir, I haint been able to pay dat in a long time.

"In slavery time when de people you call de Yankees come, I wus small, but father took us and
left the plantation. We lived in Raleigh after that. Father did not stay on de plantation anymore
but he farmed around Raleigh as long as he lived. He made corn, peas, potatoes and other things
to feed us with. I used to hear 'em talk about de Ku Klux. We wus mighty afraid of dem.

"I used to hear my father say he had a very good master. My min' is not good but I remember
we used water from a spring and lived in a little log house out from my master's 'great house'.
I remember sein' de slaves but I do not remember how many dere wus. I never saw a slave whupped.
My mother's son wus sold, that wus my brother Washington wus sold away from her before de surrender.
Mother cried a lot about it. I remember sein' her cry about my brother bein' sold.

"I remember sein' de Yankees. Dey told us dey were the Blue Jackets dat set us free. I wus
afraid o' dem. I am old enough to have been dead long ago. Guess it is the mercy of the Lord
dats lets me live.

"All I know about Abraham Lincoln is what I been told. Dey say, I think dey said he set de
slaves free. I don't know much good or bad about Mr. Roosevelt. I can't read and write. Dey
would not let a nigger have any books. Dey were perticular 'bout dat. When dey tole us 'bout
de Bible dey say it say obey your marster. Dis is 'bout all I 'members. Yes, 'bout all I 'members."

AC

N.C. District:    No. 2 Worker:           T. Pat Matthews No. Words:        736 Subject:  
SIMUEL RIDDICK Story teller:     Simuel Riddick Editor:           Daisy Bailey Waitt

SIMUEL RIDDICK 2205 Everette Ave.

"My name is Simuel Riddick. I was born the fourth day February, 1841. My owners, my white people,
my old mistress wrote me a letter telling me my age. My mother was Nancy Riddick; she belonged
to the Riddicks in the Eastern part of the State. My father was named Elisha Riddick. My master
was named Elisha and my mistress Sarah Riddick. They had three daughters, Sarah, Christine,
and Mary, one boy named Asbury Riddick.

"I was born in Perquimans County, North Carolina and I have lived in North Carolina all my
life. We had good food, for marster was a heavy farmer. There were about 200 acres cleared
on the plantation, and about 25 slaves. The great house was where marster lived and the quarters
was where we lived. They were near the great house. I saw only one slave whupped. I had mighty
fine white people, yes, mighty fine white people. They did not whup their slaves, but their
son whupped my mother pretty bad because she did not bale enough corn and turnips to feed the
fattening hogs.

"He was a rang tang. He loved his liquor, and he loved colored women. The ole man never whupped
anybody. Young marster married in the Marmaduke family in Gates County. He sold one man who
belonged to his wife, Mary. I never saw a slave sold.

"I have seen lots o' paterollers. They were my friends. I had friends among 'em because I had
a young missus they run with. Dats why they let me alone. I went with her to cotton pickin's
at night. They came, but they didn't touch me. My young missus married Dr. Perry from the same
neighborhood in Perquimans County. Bill Simpson married her sister. He was from the same place.
Watson White married the other one. He was from Perquimans.

"There were no half-white children on Marster's plantation, and no mixups that ever came out
to be a disgrace in any way. My white folks were fine people. I remember marster's brother's
son Tommy going off to war. Marster's brother was named Willis Riddick. He never came back.
I got a letter from my missus since I been in Raleigh. She was a fine lady. She put fine clothes
on me. I was a foreman on the plantation and looked after things in general. I had charge of
everything at the lots and in the fields. They trusted me.

"When the war broke out I left my marster and went to Portsmouth, Virginia. General Miles captured
me and put me in uniform. I waited on him as a body servant, a private in the U.S. Army. I
stayed with him until General Lee surrendered. When Lee surrendered I stayed in Washington
with General Miles at the Willard Hotel and waited on him. I stayed there a long time. I was
with General Miles at Fortress Monroe and stayed with him till he was in charge of North Carolina.
He was a general, and had the 69th Irish brigade. He also had the Bluecats and Greentorches.

"I waited on him at the Abbeck House, Alexandria, Virginia after the war. I stayed with the
general a long time after the war. I didn't go with General Miles when he was ordered to the
plains of the west.

"I stayed on the Bureau here in Raleigh. Dr. H.C. Wagel was in charge. After I left the Bureau
I worked at the N.C. State College several years then I worked with the city at the city parks.
I never left the state after coming here With General Miles.

"I had mighty good white people, was treated all right, was made foreman and treated with every
kindness. I haven't anything to say against slavery. My old folks put my clothes on me when
I was a boy. They gave me shoes and stockings and put them on me when I was a little boy. I
loved them and I can't go against them in anything. There were things I did not like about
slavery on some plantations, whuppin' and sellin' parents and children from each other but
I haven't much to say. I was treated good.

"Don't know much about Abraham Lincoln, haven't much to express about Mr. Roosevelt. He is
a mighty pleasant man tho'. I learned to read and write after the war. I could not read and
write when I was a soldier."

"I wuz borned at Beulah, down hyar whar Garner am now, an' my parents wuz Cameron an' Sally
Perry. When I wuz a month old we moved ter Raleigh.

"We wuz called 'Ole Issues', case we wuz mixed wid de whites. My pappy wuz borned free, case
his mammy wuz a white 'oman an' his pappy wuz a coal-black nigger man. Hit happened in Mississippi,
do' I doan know her name 'cept dat she wuz a Perry.

"She wuz de wife of grandfather's marster an' dey said dat he wuz mean ter her. Grandfather
wuz her coachman an' he often seed her cry, an' he'd talk ter her an' try ter comfort her in
her troubles, an' dat's de way dat she come ter fall in love wid him.

"One day, he said, she axed him ter stop de carriage an' come back dar an' talk ter her. When
he wuz back dar wid her she starts ter cry an' she puts her purtty gold haid on his shoulder,
an' she tells him dat he am her only friend, an' dat her husban' won't eben let her have a chile.

"Hit goes on lak dis till her husban' fin's out dat she am gwine ter have de baby. Dey says
dat he beats her awful an' when pappy wuz borned he jist about went crazy. Anyhow pappy wuz
bound out till he wuz twenty-one an' den he wuz free, case no person wid ary a drap of white
blood can be a slave.

"When he wuz free he comed ter Raleigh an' from de fust I can remember he wuz a blacksmith
an' his shop wuz on Wolcot's Corner. Dar wuz jist three of us chilluns, Charlie, Narcissus,
an' me an' dat wuz a onusual small family.

"Before de war Judge Bantin's wife teached us niggers on de sly, an' atter de war wuz over
de Yankees started Hayes's school. I ain't had so much schoolin' but I teached de little ones
fer seberal years.

"De Southern soldiers burned de depot, which wuz between Cabarrus an' Davie Streets den, an'
dat wuz ter keep de Yankees from gittin' de supplies. Wheeler's Cavalry wuz de meanest troops
what wuz.

"De Yankees ain't got much in Raleigh, case de Confederates has done got it all an' gone. Why
fer a long time dar de way we got our salt wuz by boilin' de dirt from de smoke house floor
where de meat has hung an' dripped.

"I'm glad slavery is ober, eben do' I ain't neber been no slave. But I tell yo' it's bad ter
be a 'Ole Issue.'"

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          T. Pat Matthews No. Words:       712 Subject:     
CELIA ROBINSON Story teller:    Celia Robinson Editor:          Daisy Bailey Waitt

CELIA ROBINSON 611 E. Cabarrus St.

"My name, full name, is Celia Robinson. I can't rest, I has nuritus so bad; de doctor says
it's nuritus. I do not know my age, I wus eight or ten years old at de close o' de war. De
ole family book got burned up, house an' all. I wuz borned a slave. Dat's what my father and
mother tole me. My father, he 'longed to Dr. Wiley Perry of Louisburg, N.C., Franklin Co.,
an' my mother 'longed to McKnight on an adjoining plantation. I do not know McKnight's given
name. My father wus named Henderson Perry. He wuz my marster's shop man (blacksmith). My mother
wus named Peggy Perry. McKnight's wife wus named Penny. I member her name.

"I member when de Yankees came ter my mother's house on de McKnight plantation near Louisburg
an' dey went inter her things. When de Yankees came down my brother Buck Perry drug me under
de bed and tole me to lie still or de Yankees would ketch me. I member de sweet music dey played
an' de way dey beat de drum. Dey came right inter de house. Dey went inter her chist; they
broke it open. Dey broke de safe open also. Dey took mother's jewelry. But she got it back.
Missus went ter de captain an' dey give back de jewelry. My missus wus de cause of her gittin'
it back.

"I wuz old enough to go up ter where my brother kept de cows when de war ended. I member where
he kept de calves. My brother would carry me up dere ter hold de calves off when dey wus milking
de cows. My marster would take me by de hand and say 'Now, Celia, you must be smart or I will
let de bull hook you.' He often carried me up to de great house an' fed me. He give me good
things ter eat. Yes, I am partly white. It won't on my mother's side tho', but let's not say
anything about dat, jist let dat go. Don't say anything about dat. Marster thought a lot o'
me. Marster and missus thought there wus nothin' like me. Missus let me tote her basket, and
marster let me play wid his keys.

"I cannot read an' write. I have never been ter school but one month in my life. When I wus
a little girl I had plenty ter eat, wear, an' a good time.

"I 'member when my father would come ter see mother. De patterollers tole him if he didn't
stop coming home so much dey wus goin' ter whip him. He had a certain knock on de door, den
mother would let him in.

"I 'member how mother tole me de overseer would come ter her when she had a young child an'
tell her ter go home and suckle dat thing, and she better be back in de field at work in 15
minutes. Mother said she knowed she could not go home and suckle dat child and git back in
15 minutes so she would go somewhere an' sit down an' pray de child would die.

"We lived at Dr. Wiley Perry's one year atter de war, then we moved ter de plantation of Seth
Ward, a white man who was not married, but he had a lot of mulatto children by a slave woman
o' his. We stayed dere four years, den we moved ter de Charles Perry plantation. Father stayed
dere and raised 15 children an' bought him a place near de town o' Franklinton. I got along
during my early childhood better dan I do now. Yes, dat I did. I plowed, grubbed an' rolled
logs right atter de war, I worked right wid de men.

"I married Henry Robinson. We married on de Perry plantation. We had two children born ter
us, Ada an' Ella. Dey are both dead. I wish I had had two dozen children. I have no children
now. If I had had two dozen, maybe some would be wid me now. I am lonesome and unable to work.
I have been trying to wash and iron fer a livin', but now I am sick, unable to work. I live
with my grandson an' I have nothing."

N.C. District:       No. 2 Worker:              T. Pat Matthews No. Words:           1239 Subject:
GEORGE ROGERS Person Interviewed:  George Rogers Editor:              Daisy Bailey Waitt

GEORGE ROGERS Ex-Slave Story

"George Rogers is the name. I has carried fur 94 years an' over. I will be 95 the first day
o' this comin' August. Louis Rogers wuz my father. My mother wuz Penny Rogers. All my brothers
an' sisters are dead except one sister. She is livin' in Buffalo, New York. She is somewhere
in seventy years old. She wuz the baby in our home. My mother an' father an' all o' us belonged
to Felix Rogers. He lived in the edge o' Wake County next to Greenville County. My mother came
from Canada. My master came here from Canada an' married here. He married old man Billy Shipp's
daughter. Her name wuz Matilda Shipp.

"I cannot read an' write. Dey did not 'low no niggers to handle no papers in dem days. Master
had three plantations an' about one hundred slaves. We had good houses an' plenty to eat. My
master wuz a good man. We had no church on the plantation, but we had prayermeeting in our
houses. He 'lowed dat an' when dey had big meeting, he made us all go. We had dances or anything
else we wanted to at night. We had corn shuckings, candy pullings, an' all the whiskey an'
brandy we wanted. My daddy didn't do nuthin' but 'still for him. Whiskey wuz only ten cents
a quart den.

"I have never seen him really whup a slave any more dan he whupped his own chilluns. He whupped
us all together when we stole watermelons and apples. He made us chillun, white and black,
eat together at a big table to ourselves. We had ordinary clothes, but we all went alike. In
the summer and winter we all went barefooted and in our shirt tails mos' er de time. His chilluns
wuz just as bad fer goin' barefooted as we niggers wuz.

"We had our patches, and he allowed us to have the money we made on 'em. Our houses were called
slave quarters. Our marster's house wuz a big fine two story-house. We slaves called it 'de
great house'. None er de slaves from Marster Roger's plantation never run away.

"We chillun played de games uv marbles, cat ball, an' we played base, prison base. At night
we all played peep squirrel in the house. We played blindfold and tag.

"We fished a lot in Briar Creek. We caught a lot o' fish. Sometimes we used pin hooks we made
ourselves. We would trade our fish to missus for molasses to make candy out uv.

"When we got sick we had a doctor. His name wuz Dr. Hicks. I never wuz sick, but some uv de
res' wuz. We had an old colored man who doctored on all us chillun. He give us roots an' herbs.

"Yes sir, I have seen slaves sold. My marster died the year the war started; den dey had a
big sale at our house. Dey had a sale, an' old man Askew bought a whole lot o' our niggers.
I don't know his name only dey called him 'old man Askew'. He lived on Salisbury Street Raleigh,
down near de Rex Hospital, Corner Salisbury and Lenoir Streets. Old man Askew wuz a slave speculator.
He didn't do nothin' but buy up slaves and sell 'em. He carried de ones he bought at our house
to Texas. He bought my half-sister and carried her to Texas. Atter de surrender I saw her in
Texas once, never no more.

"When de war begin dey carried young marster off. His name wuz William Rogers, an' dey sent
me to wait on 'im. I wuz in camp wid 'im up here by de old Fair Grounds. Atter we got there
I seed old Colonel Farrabow, he wuz Colonel o' dat regiment. We all lef' Raleigh on wagons,
an' I don't know whur we went atter we lef' Raleigh; I wuz las'. We got on de train at Fayetteville,
whur dey kept de rations. We went to a place whur dere wuz a lot o' water. I don't know its
name. We were dere about three days when dey had a battle, an' den Colonel Farrabow come round
an' tole me marster wuz gone. He told us to go to the breas'works and work. I stayed dere three
years and eight months. Den dey had anudder battle dar just befo' I lef', and de Yankees tuc'
de place.

"I went to de Yankees den. Dey give me clothes, shoes, sumtin to eat, and some money too. I
worked for 'em while dey were camped in Raleigh. I come wid' em back to Raleigh. Dey were camped
on Newbern Avenue and Tarboro Street and all out in Gatlin' Field in de place now called Lincoln
Park. De Yankees, when dey tuc' us, tole us ter come on wid' em. Dey tole us to git all de
folks's chickens and hogs. We wuz behind 'em, an' we had plenty. Dey made us steal an' take
things fur 'em. Wheeler's Calvary went before us, dat's why dey wuz so rich. Dey got all de
silver, an' we got de chickens and hogs.

"De Yankees skinned chickens and geese. Dey cut hogs an' cows up an' den skinned 'em. Dey took
jis' part of a cow sometime, jis' de hind quarters an' lef' de res'. We went to one place,
an' de white 'oman only had one piece o' meat an' a big gang o' little chillun. I begged de
Yankees to let dat piece of meat alone, she wuz so po', but de officer tole 'em to take it,
an' dey took her las' piece o' meat.

"I stayed wid de Yankees two years arter de surrender. Dey carried me to Florida when I lef'
Raleigh. When I lef' 'em in Florida I went ter Texas to min' cattle. I stayed in Texas seven
years. Den Mr. Hardie Pool from down here at Battle Bridge, Wake County come out dere. When
he started home I couldn't stan' it no longer, an' I jis tole him I wuz goin' back home to
North Carolina. No Sir, when I got home, I would not go back. No mo mindin' cattle in Texas
fur me. I married arter I come back here. I married Polly Bancomb first, den a 'oman named
Betsy Maynard, and las', Emily Walton.

"When de surrender come marster wuz dead, but he lef' it so dat all his slaves who had families
got a piece o' lan'. Dere were four of 'em who got lan'. He wuz dead do', but missus done like
he had it fixed.

"We had white overseers. Old man John Robinson stayed there till de surrender; den he lef'.
We used to kill squirrels, turkeys, an' game wid guns. When marster went off some o' us boys
stole de guns, an' away we went to de woods huntin'. Marster would come back drunk. He would
not know, an' he did not care nuther, about we huntin' game. We caught possums an' coons at
night wid dogs. Marsa an' missus wuz good to us.

"I heerd a heap uv talk about Abraham Lincoln, but I don't know nuthin' bout him. I like Mr.
Roosevelt all right. He is all right as fur as I know of 'im. I digs fish worms fer a livin';
I can't work much. I jist works awhile in the mornin'. I don't git anything from charity, de
county, ner de State. I don' have much. Dese are de bes' shoes I has. Dey flinged dem away,
an' I picked 'em up. Dey is jist rags uv shoes. I shore need shoes."

L.E.

N.C. District:       No. 2 Worker:              T. Pat Matthews No. Words:           1172 Subject:
HATTIE ROGERS Person Interviewed:  Hattie Rogers Editor:              G.L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: AUG 4 1937]

HATTIE ROGERS

"I was born a slave in New Bern, N.C., Craven County, the 2nd day of March 1859. My full name
is Hattie Rogers. My mother's name was Roxanna Jeffreys. Her husband was named Gaston Jeffreys,
but he was not my father. My father was Levin Eubanks, a white man. I was born before my mother
was married. I called my father Marse Levin. We belonged to Allen Eubanks of New Bern, N.C.
and his sister's son was my father. His sister was named Harriot and I was named after her.
Marster didn't care who our fathers was jest so the women had children. My father died in 1910.
My mother was 15 years old when I was born. When I was a little girl they moved us out to the
plantation on the White Oak River in Onslow County where we had plenty to eat and wear. We
made the stuff and we ate it. Our marster was good to us. Marster carried me around in his
arms a whole lot. He would say to me, 'Come on Harriot, and let's go get a dram. If you're
like your daddy I know you like it.'

"Our marster did not whip us or allow anyone else to whip us.

"When the Yankees took New Bern, two years before the war ended, we all were refuged to Franklin
County to keep them from setting us free. All who could swim the river and get to the Yankees
were free. Some of the men swum the river and got to Jones County, then to New Bern and freedom.
One of these was Alec Parker. The White Oak River was in Onslow County bordering Jones County.
There was a lot of slaves who did this, but he is the only one I personally remember.

"When we got to Franklin County, we saw plenty of patterollers, and many of the men were whipped.
Mother's husband was beat unmercifully by them.

"There was no churches on the plantation, but we went to the white folks church and sat on
the back seats. The white people was friendly to us in the eastern part of the state. Indeed
it was more stiff up in Franklin County. Some of the slave-owners was very mean to their slaves.
I remember seeing some of the slaves almost beat to death. Lawsy mercy, that was a time. I
saw a slave-owner whip a colored woman named Lucy, his servant. He was named John Ellis, Judge
Ellis's son in Franklinton.

"My mother cooked for Judge Ellis then. John Ellis whipped Lucy because he found a piece of
pickle outside the pantry door. He accused her of stealing it. There was a string attached
to a bell, near where Lucy stayed. She was a house girl. He accused her of stealing the pickle
and leaving it there when the bell rung, and she had to go in the house. He made her strip
to her waist and then he made her hug a tree. He whipped her with a cowhide whip until she
could only say in a weak voice, 'Oh pray! Marster John'. Major Thomason was there, and he went
to Marse John and said 'John, don't kill the dam nigger.'

"A lot of the white folks hid in the woods and in caves and swamps. They hired slaves out when
they didn't need 'em themselves. They hid jewelry in hoss stables by digging holes, putting
the jewelry in, and then replacing the straw.

"When the slaves was sent from White Oak to Franklinton before Lee surrendered they had to
walk all the way. We children was carried in dump carts drawn by mules. My marster nor none
of his boys was ever in the Confederate Army. When they got us to Franklinton they put us in
jail for safe keeping.

"If a woman was a good breeder she brought a good price on the auction block. The slave buyers
would come around and jab them in the stomach and look them over and if they thought they would
have children fast they brought a good price.

"Just before the war started when the birds would sing around the well, Missus would say, 'War
is coming, them birds singing is a sign of war; the Yankees will come and kill us all.' I can
see the old well now jest as plain. It had a sweep and pole. You pulled the sweep over by pulling
the pole and bucket down into the well. When it sunk into the water, the heavy sweep pulled
it up again.

"I wouldn't tell anything wrong on my ole marster for anything. He was good to all of us. He
offered my mother a piece of land after the war closed, but mother's husband would not let
her accept it. My grandmother took a place he offered her. He gave her fifty acres of land
and put a nice frame building on it.

"The man we belonged to never was married. He bought a woman who had two little girls, on [TR:
one] named Lucy and the other Abbie. He took Lucy for a house girl to wait on his mother. She
had eleven children by him. They're all dead except one. All the missus I ever had was a slave,
and she was this same Lucy. Yes, sir he loved that woman, and when he died he left all his
property to her.

"When the slaves on the plantation got sick they relied mostly on herbs. They used sage tea
for fever, poplar bark water for chills.

"When the husbands and brothers and sweethearts were gone to the war the white ladies would
sing. Annie Ellis and Mag Thomas would sing these pitiful songs. 'Adieu my friends, I bid you
adieu, I'll hang my heart on the willow tree and may the world go well with you.'

"When I was three years old I remember hearing this song. 'Old Beauregard and Jackson came
running down to Manassas, I couldn't tell to save my life which one could run the fastest,
Hurray boys, hurray!'

"When the surrender came the Yankees rocked the place where we were in. We were in a box car.
They wanted to get a light-colored slave out.

"The Yankee officers came and gave mother's husband a gun and told him to shoot anyone who
bothered us. They put a guard around the car, and they walked around the car all night.

"My mother was dipping snuff when the Yankees came. One rode up to her and said, 'Take that
stick out of your mouth.' Mother was scared when the Yankees tried to break in on us. She cried
and hollered murder! and I cried too. I din't know about freedom. I was too young to realize
much about it. When the war ended I had just been hired out. I was never sent off. I think
slavery was an awful thing, and that Abraham Lincoln was a good man because he set us free."

LE

N.C. District:        No. 2 Worker:               Mary A. Hicks No. Words:            669 Subject:
HENRY ROUNTREE Person Interviewed:   Henry Rountree Editor:               G.L. Andrews

HENRY ROUNTREE

Henry Rountree, 103 years old, of near Newsom's Store in Wilson County.

"I wus borned an' bred in Wilson County on de plantation of Mr. Dock Rountree. I wus named
fer his oldest son, young Marse Henry. My mammy, Adell, my pappy, Shark, an' my ten brothers
an' sisters lived dar, an' aldo' we works middlin' hard we has de grandes' times ever.

"We has two er three corn shuckings ever' fall, we has wood splittin' days an' invite de neighbors
in de winter time. De wimmen has quiltin's an' dat night we has a dance. In de col' winter
time when we'd have hog killin's we'd invite de neighbors case dar wus a hundret er two hogs
ter kill 'fore we quit. Yes, mam, dem wus de days when folkses, white an' black, worked tergether.

"Dar wus Candy pullin's when we makes de 'lasses an' at Christmas time an' on New Year's Eve
we has a all night dance. On Christmas mornin' we serenaded de marster's family an' dey gived
us fruits, candy an' clothes.

"My marster had game cocks what he put up to fight an' dey wus valuable. When I wus a little
feller he had one rooster that 'ud whup me ever' time I got close ter him, he'd whup young
Marse Henry too, so both of us hated him.

"One day we set down wid bruised backs ter decide how ter git rid of dat ole rooster, not thinkin'
'bout how much he cost. We made our plans, an' atter gittin' a stick apiece ready we starts
drappin' a line of corn to de ole well out in de barnyard. De pesky varmint follers de corn
an' when he gits on de brink of de well we lets him have it wid de sticks an' pretty shortly
he am drownded. Marse ain't never knowed it nother.

"De missus had a ole parrot what had once 'longed ter her brother who wus a sea captain. Dat
wus de cussingest thing I ever seed an' he'd cuss ever'body an' ever'thing. One day two neighborhood
men wus passin' when dey heard somebody holler 'Wait a minute.' When dey turns 'roun' de ole
parrot sez, 'Go on now, I jist wanted ter see how you looks, Great God what ugly men!' An'
de ole thing laughs fit ter bust.

"Dat ole parrot got de slaves in a heap of trouble so de day when de hawk caught him we wus
tickled pink. De hawk sailed off wid de parrot screamin' over an' over, 'Pore polly's ridin'.
We laughed too quick case de hawk am skeerd an' turns de ole fool parrot loose.

"Hit's things lak dat dat I 'members mostly, but I does 'member when de news of de war come.
Ole missus says dat de will of de Lord be done. Den ole Marse sez dat his slaves won't be no
happier in heaben dan dey will wid him an' dat de Yankees better keep outen his business.

"De war comes on an' as de niggers l'arns dat dey am free dar am much shoutin' an rejoicin'
on other plantations, but dar ain't nothin' but sorrow on ours, case de marster sez dat he
always give us ever'thing dat we needs ter make us happy but he be drat iffen he is gwine ter
give us money ter fling away. So we all has ter go.

"Ole marster doan live long atter de war am over, but till de day dat he wus buried we all
done anything he ax us.

"I has done mostly farm work all of my life, an' work aroun' de house. Fer years an' years
I lives on a part of Marse's land an' atter dat I lives here. I ain't got no kick comin' 'bout
nothin' 'cept dat I wants my ole age pension, I does, an' I'd like to say too, Miss, dat de
niggers 'ud be better off in slavery. I ain't seed no happy niggers since dem fool Yankees
come along."

LE

By Miss Nancy Watkins Madison, Rockingham County

Biography Sketch of Ex-Slave, Anderson Scales, 82

Three fourths of a mile from his master's mansion in Madison on Hunter Street, with his large
plug tobacco factory across the street on the corner (where [HW: in] 1937 stands the residence
of Dr. Wesley McAnally,) in some "quarters" which Nat Pitcher Scales had near Beaver Island
Creek, Anderson was born to slave mother, Martha Scales of a father, "man name uh Edwards."
Baby Anderson was the slave of William Scales, at one time the world's largest manufacturer
of plug or chewing tobacco and he was named for Henry Anderson, the husband of Mrs. William
Scales' sister. Cabins here "quarters" consisting of three or four log ones. Cabins were near
the old "free white schoolhouse" or rather the "schoolhouse" for whites.

Rolling around the yards with the other pickaninnies, Anderson passed his babyhood, and when
he was a boy he went to be house boy at Marse Jim Dick Cardwell's on Academy Street facing
Nat Pitcher Scales' home, later that of Col. John Marion Gallaway. Here he learned good manners
and to be of good service. Later he was houseboy in the big house just beyond the Methodist
church at James Cardwell's who had a mill five miles west of Madison and whose wife was Sallie
Martin; granddaughter of Governor Alexander Martin. Here Anderson learned more good manners
and rendered more good house boy service such as sweeping floors, bringing in "turns" (armfuls)
of fireplace wood, drawing water from the yard well and toting it into the house, keeping flies
off the dining table, carrying out slops and garbage, for every town house had its back lot pigs.

Larger [HW correction: Later] Anderson was hired to Nat Wall, (colored) farmer and blacksmith,
then to Joshua Wall, white planter of Dan Valley northeast of town a few miles.

White men would get contracts to have the mail carried to various towns and Anderson Scales
was hired by one of these contractors to carry the mail from Madison to Mt. Airy, fifty miles
distant in northwest Surry County. He would go by horse and sulky (sulky) on Monday, return
on Wednesday; go on Thursday, return on Saturday. This was in the late 1870's and 1880's.

During the tobacco season, he worked in factories in Winston (no Salem then) and Greensboro.
Then he worked in Nat Scales' factory in Madison and in that of his former Marster, William
Scales. He married Cora Dalton and started his home a mile up the Ayresville road from town.

The railroads having come with the consequent transporting of freight to and fro, Anderson
started a public draying business of one horse and a wagon, which lasted thirty eight years
and was given up by him to his son-in-law, Arthur Cable who now, in 1937, has an auto-truck
and hauls large paper boxes from the Gem Dandy Suspender and Garter Company located across
Franklin Street from Anderson's house boy home, that of James Cardwell, to the post office.
From the freight train depot, Arthur hauls merchandise also in paper cartons to the feed stores
which do not own an auto truck of their own, and he hauls to the garter factory a few two by
three foot wooden boxes loaded with metal fillings for the suspenders. This is a complete contrast
to the loads "drayed" by Anderson through the 1880's, 1890's and the 1900's to about 1915 when
the automobile began to change the world of transportation, and Anderson's one horse wagon
dray business along with it.

For thirty-eight years Anderson met every train to capture the trunks of visitors or "drummers"
in town. Two immense hogheads packed with leaf tobacco was sold on the floors of Webster's
ware house and Planters' warehouse. Two stacks of tobacco baskets loaded with the bundles of
leaf, Anderson, five feet high, and his lean horse could dray from the sales floors to the
packing houses where the tobacco was packed and pressed into the hogsheads or else stored for
removal at a greater profit. One such packing house was converted into the Gem Dandy Garter
Factory about 1915, and today three of the original five remain. One or two are still used
for tobacco packing, though the season of 1936-1937 marked the hauling of immense loads of
tobacco direct from the sales floors to the Winston-Salem buyers. One pack house is used as
a fertilizer sales house. One loaded to the roof comb with heavily insured tobacco was mysteriously
burned during the World War where such insurance collections were the fashion! Thus Anderson's
dray business dwindled. Any kind of hauling he could get done, and his horses, as they died
from strenuous work, would be replaced by others who in no time learned the meaning of Anderson's
constant pulls on their reins and his constant and meaningful clucks. With no swivel features
to his wagon, Anderson could nevertheless work the horse and wagon into any kind of close position
for loading and unloading. He always said the baggage of the writer was the heaviest he carried.
This was so because of books packed in the trunk or in boxes and twenty-five cents a piece
was the fare!

Anderson's wife and children at home were making the acre homestead pay with cow, pigs, chickens
and vegetables quickly grown on soil enriched from his dray horse stable as well as the cow
stable: "snaps", tomatoes, Irish potatoes, roasting ears, butterbeans, squash in the summer,
in the spring mustard and onions; in the winter "sallet" from the "seven top" and turnips,
too. Fruit trees planted in time gave fruit for eating, canning and "pursurving" while all
the little darkies knew where wild strawberries, crab apples and black berries grew for the
picking. With Mommuh taking in white folks' washing and the dray horse money coming in, Anderson
Scales prospered in Madison where he started from zero scratch. He had money in the bank.

Anderson said after "Srenduh", [HW addition: the surrender] he learned to read and write at
a negro free school taught by Matilda Phillips. With his wife, Cora Dalton, sister of Sam Dalton,
Anderson joined the African Methodist Church fifty years ago. This was located just across
the street from the home of his former employer, Nat Wall until 1925 when it was abandoned
with its parsonage and a new brick church built on the Mayodan road with stained glass memorial
windows, electric lights, piano, well finished interior, and christened St. Stephen's Methodist
Episcopal Church. The omission of the word "South" emphasized the fact that the members considered
it a northern Methodist church as well as African. In this church, Anderson was exhorter, trustee
and class leader. In then religious capacities, his education by the colored teacher, Matilda
Phillips was a great help to him.

Anderson's second wife was Dinah Strong who had no children. She died December, 1933 from a
goiter on her throat.

For ten years or more Anderson has operated a grocery store in the corner of the Mayodan and
the Ayresville roads. Customers come more at night, so Anderson has time in the day to work
his garden patches of onions, snaps and the like and to stop and rest on the porch of the small
store house. Clad in good dark clothes, a low crowned derby hat, he often snoozes as he rests
his eighty-two year old frame.

Anderson and many of his children were distinguished by their very large round eyes with much
white showing. One of his sons inherited the blackness of his skin. This was "Little Anderson"
who once sought a warrant from a local justice to punish by trial some boy at the tobacco warehouse,
who had remarked thus: "Boy, charcoal would leave a light mark on your skin!"

Anderson's son, Will Scales, was the first husband of Bertha who had to nurse him through the
terrible spells he would have from liquor debauchery. Will was the servant of the Nat Picket
family and once Mrs. Pickett herself went down to their home and nursed Will through one of
his terrible "cramping spells." After Will Scales' death, Bertha married Cleve Booker, plumber,
ex-World War veteran and of surpassing good nature from Washington, Georgia. Their oldest son
they named Chilicothe, Ohio, because at that city, Cleve was in war camp and met Bertha who
had gone there to go out in service.

Some of Anderson Scales other children still live in Madison in homes marked by good construction,
clean well furnished interior, artistic surroundings. Martha married Arthur Cable who also
holds an honored place in the church. One daughter married Odell Dyson. Fannie Sue married
Thompson. Walter married Morris Carter's daughter. He died in early 1937 of pneumonia in West
Virginia. So his widow went to help take care of "Pap Anderson". Nancy Scales married Eler
William Wells.

When told that the pioneer graveyard of the Scaleses which is a mile or so west of his store
was a thick tangle of growth and no stones to the once wealthy tobacco manufacturer, William
Scales, Unka Anderson exclaimed May 19, 1937: "You don't mean to tell me my ole Marse ain't
got no tombstone to his grave".

A merchant's wife stated that about 1930, Anderson had more ready cash in the bank of Madison
than any white man in town, but Uncle Anderson disclaimed this.

But the Depression of 1930-1934 did not injure this energetic black man who started in a "quarters"
cabin a mile or so west of his present home and store, lived all his life in Madison and faces
the "one clear call" with comfortable snoozes on his own front porch. Respected by white and
colored, Anderson Scales, 82, has guided his life by the gospel preached by his pastor, also
an ex-slave, William Scales of Madison.

By Miss Nancy Watkins Madison, North Carolina Rockingham County

BIOGRAPHY OF EX-SLAVE CATHERINE SCALES

About ten years old at the "Srenduh", now quite feeble, but aristocratic in her black dress,
white apron and small sailor hat made of black taffeta silk with a milliner's fold around the
edge, Aunt Catherine is small, intensely black with finely cut features and thin lip. Her hand
is finely molded, fingers long and slender. Her voice is soft and poise marks her personality.
Sallie Martin, a ginger cake colored woman, sixty-five, has lived as a kind of caretaker with
Aunt Catherine since 1934 and thereby gets her own roof and refreshment. For Aunt Catherine
has gotten "relief" from the county welfare chief, Mrs. John Lee Wilson, and Jeff Scales, seventy,
brings Sallie to the "relief" dispensary in his two horse wagon for the apples or onions or
grape fruits or prunes with dried bena, milk, canned beef or potatoes as the stores yield.
A white horse and a brown mule comprise the team, and several dogs trot along side. Sally also
small and frail looking sits in a chair planted in the flat wagon bed behind the drivers' seat,
a plank resting on the sides. Jeff drives close to the door, alights and helps Sallie step
on to the back of the bed, thence to a chair he has placed, then to the ground, just as polite
whites did to their women folks after the war when they would ride to town or to church or
to picnics in wagons in order to carry the family, the servants, the dinner, horse feed, water
bucket, chairs, cushions. Sallie gets in line, presents Aunt Katherine's card which she has
gotten by mail, hears the dispensing lady call to the helping men what Aunt Catherine is to
have, and struggles to the door with it where Jeff meets her, transfers the load to his wagon
bed. Then with his hands he steadies Sallie as she mounts the chair, then the back of the wagon
bed, over the side with voluminous long skirts, and old fashioned ruffled sun bonnet. Off to
the hilly north part of Madison called Freetown, Jeff's [TR: Jeff] expertly guides his team
through automobile traffi. [TR: traffic] During the worst of the depression Aunt Sallie said
she kept her coal reserve in a tub upstairs so nobody could steal it.

Aunt Katherine strengthened by her relief food can talk comfortably.

"I shure did love my white fokes--Ole Marse, Timberlikk (Timberlake) an' Ole Miss Mary Timberlikk.
My mother, Lucy Ann Timberlikk bough their portraits at the sale of the old Timberlake things,
and kepp them an' brought them with her to Madison, when we moved up here, an kepp them until
mummy was in her last sickness, an' two of Ole Misses daughters came over from Greensboro,
an' begged,--an mammy sold the pictures to them for a quarter a piece. I still have Ole Misses
mother's dish, though. I've got in [TR: it] packed away in a safe place. I'll get it and show
it to you." It is a large flat platter of the ware called iron ware and was generally used
to serve fried ham and eggs while the gravy came in a small deep dish. In summer, a heap of
snaps greasy with middling meat slashed and boiled down dry with Irish potatoes around the
edge came to table in the platter.

The keeper of the Timberlake oil portraits was Lucy, slave of Nat Scales, and Lucy's husband
was Nathan Scales. Slave Nat Scales (named for Marse Nat) had married a black woman who came
"across the water", Sallis [TR: Sallie?] Green who become by purchase Sallie Scales. Thus Aunt
Katherine recalls her grandmother as one who "cum over the water with a white lady". The purchaser
Mrs. Scales was from the LeSeur family. Her father was clerk of the Rockingham county court
as early as [TR: missing date?] and kept the session records of his Presbyterian church in
a fine neat script.

"The LeSeurs had as big a house as the Scales house at Deep Springs. I've stayed many a nite
in it. It was next to Ole Marse Jimmie Scaleses. John Durham Scales, Marse Jimmy's grandson
lived and died in it--his grandmother's house, the old Le Seur place, ten miles down the Dan
river towards Leaksville. Miss Mary Le Seur married Marse Gus Timberlikk, an was the grandmother
of William Timberlake Lipscomb who used to come up to Madison and go to Dr. Schuck's Beulah
Academy just after the Srenduh. When Marse Billy'd get lonesome, he'd go down to Spring Garden
and dance with the Scales girls. Ole Marse Le Seur's wife was Miss Lizzie Scales Marse Jimmie's.

"Nome, us slaves didn't have no chuch. Marse Nat Scales ud let his slaves go to the babtizings.

"I could hoe but I didn't do much clean up work. I spun on a great big wheel that went m-m-m-m-m.
I wish I had a big wheel to spin on right now. My mammy, Lucy Ann, could weave. She sho loved
her white fokes. Cullud fokes didn't have much sence den. She would take cow hair and kyard
and spin it with a little cottin in to rolls, and then she'd weave cloth out of it.

"An how they made their shoes den: My father would cut shoes out of the raw cowhide and put
them on bottoms (soles) he cut out uv wood. An he couldn't run in them a-tall, just had to
stomp along! An day didn't put on shoe till nearly Christmas."

Schooling

Aunt Katherine said she "learned her letters" in a school fuh cullud fokes only taught by Mr.
Sam Allen just after the Srenduh close to the old Timberlake place. Mr. Sam was the son of
Mr. Val(entine) Allen an Miss Betsy Martin (she was the granddaughter of Governor Martin).

"Sometimes Miss Betsy'd git worried with little nigguh rolling roun on de floor thub hader
under her feet, an' she'd say: 'Gway! Gway!! Gway fum hyuh! Gway tuh Pamlico!' An the little
nigguhs'd say: 'Miss Betsy, whah's Pamplico?'

"'Nine miles tother sede o' hell!'

"Yesin Mr. Sam Allen learn't me my letters. He was crippled. He married a Grogan, an' two Allen
girls married Grogans--one, Mary! Mr. Val's father was William Allen. I went to Mr. Vaul Allen's
funeral an he was buried on his father's ole place, an Miss Betsy too.

"How de cullud fokes did hate to be sold down south in de cotton country! One time ole Marse
Jimmy Scales wuz go sell uh hunduhd down south, and he died, an' all de cullud fokes wuz glad
he died cause he wuz go sell um, an oftuh he died, day didn't halftuh be sold way fum home.

"One slave woman wuz sold way fum home--had three chillun, and daze six an eight an ten yuhs
ole. She sang a song juss fo day tuh hub off. She put her three children between her knees.
She sung, 'Lord, Be With Us.'"

do--me--sol--re--do--sol--te--sol--me--do--do--sol--fa--me--sol--do
 "Remembuh me        Remembuh me        Oh Lord     remembuh me"

This was sung full of quavers and pathos, and entreaty.

"Den she cried! An dey took huh off, and de chillun never saw her no more.

"Aftuh I learned my lettuhs at Marse Sam Allens school, I learned a Bible verse ebry day an
if I want bixxy I'd learn ah half uh chaptuh. I read some newspapers, and some story books
de Miss Mary Timberlikk give us chillun to read an look ovuh. I learned to write in a copy
book, an I'd write stories about Christ, and several different stories. I filled a great big
copy book with practice. I learned the most, tho', from Webstuh's Weekly in Reidsville. We
took that papuh goin on five yuhs. I read evrything in it.

"Nome, I didn't know Miss Irene McGehiet. Uncle John R. Webster made that paper. It sure wuz
a good paper!

"My daddy wuz Marse Nat's slave, an Porter Scales wuz his slave too. Ole Marse Jimmie Scale's
sons was Nat Pitcher and John Durham, and John Durham went to wah. He took Richmond Scales
long wiff him to wait on him! Cook fuh him! Make his pallet! Clean his clothes! Rub down his
horse! Marse John Durum'd sleep with Richmond in de wintuh to keep him warm. Richmond'd carry
him watuh in his canteen during a battle. Marse John Durum had on a ring that wuz carved and
he tole Richmond take a good look at this ring sose he'd know him by it, if he didn't kum up
aftuh a battle. Richmond ud hole onto his hawse's tail, an go wif him fuhs he could fo a battle.

"Yes'm I ma'd, Richmond Scales when he wuz a widower an had a boy named Jeff. I never had no
chillun. Jeff's (70) seventy now, an lives right ovuh cross de street dere in the other hous
the Vadens built sixty years ago. I live in one, too."

Aunt Katherine's house has a front room with stairway in the corner leading to one above. A
back door leads to a side porch flanked by a two roomed ell, and ended by a pantry. Chimneys
with fireplaces once gave heat, but economy had put in Aunt Katherine's tiny stove which she
a lump at a time in the winters of depression and relief 1932-1937.

A big fat clean double bed, bureau, wash stand, "centuh" table, chairs and the stairway consumed
the living room floor space.

"Nome! I joined de chuch after a big meetin' held by preacher Richard Walker about 1907. I
joined the Methodist Chuch an I have always loved to go tuh chuch. This street goes on and
goes into the Mayodan road at our new brick (1925) Methodist Chuch. Richmond Scales, my husband
died long ago; my mother, about four years ago. She was very old! I wanted to move to Reidsville
when we leff de ole plantation whab we could get more wok (waiting) waten on wimmen (obstetries)
but the men fokes had kin fokes up hyuh, an we keem hyuh.

"I know whah de ole Sharp graveyard 'bout two miles fum (east) Madison close to Mist Tunnuh
(Turner) Peay's; cause lots uh cullud fokes buried there an I went to the funerals. I could
go straight tuh it."

By Miss Nancy Watkins, volunteer Madison, North Carolina

Story of Ex-Slave, Porter Scales

[TR: Date stamp: JUN 1 1937]

Monday, December 19, 1933, the faithful colored friends of Uncle Porter Scales transported
his body from St. Stephen's African Methodist Episcopal Church located on the Madison-Mayodan
highway to a plantation grave yard several miles east of town, along roads slippery with sleet.
He was buried by the side of his first wife on the 130 acre farm which Uncle Porter said he
bought from Mr. Ellick Llewellyn to raise his family on and which he later swapped to Mr. Bob
Cardwell for a town house in Pocomo (Kemoca, a suburb from first syllables of promoters' names,
Kemp--Moore--Cardwell--Kemoca). In this town house, Uncle Porter passed away aged he thought
ninety-seven. For a number of years, he had drawn a pension of $100.00 per year for his services
to the Confederate government in hauling foodstuff from Charlotte, North Carolina to Danville,
Virginia.

As a slave of Nat Pitcher Scales residing in the brick mansion on Academy Street across from
the Methodist church, Porter came to Madison when ten years of age, and his memory held the
development of Madison from the erection of the churches around 1845 to details like seeing
little Bettie Carter (Mrs. B. Watkin's Mebane) cry from stage fright and pass up her "piece"
at school "exhibition" (commencement). He saw Madison grow from a tiny trading village with
aristocratic slave holding citizens with "quarters" on their town lots to a town of 1500 with
automobiles clipping by to Mayodan, a mill town of 2000, and a thickly populated though unincorporated
country side.

In 1930, Uncle Porter was struck by an automobile, and since he [HW addition: has] poked his
way about town cautiously with his cane, no longer working as handy man to Thomas R. Pratt's
family on the corner of Academy and Market streets. His slavery home was in a two roomed (with
loft) cabin next door to the house Mr. Pratt built in 1890 when he moved to Madison from Leaksville.
This cabin Col. Gallaway in the 1890's had enlarged to house the Episcopal rector, Mr. Stickney.
Uncle Porter's slave home stands in 1937, occupied by Mr. Pratt's daughter, Mrs. Pearl Van
Noppen and sons.

Uncle Porter was ever very polite and humble, for all his contacts he thought had always been
with the highest of Dan river aristocracy. His medium, lean body, with a head like Julius Caesar's
was covered with skin of "ginger cake color".

On the Deep Springs Dan River plantation lived Mrs. Timberlake whose daughter married Mr. Le
Seur from an adjoining plantation just across the Dan river from Gov. Alexander Martin's Danbury
plantation. She in time married Mr. Scales, and as property of this lady, Porter was born of
legally married parents. Porter's brother, Nathan Scales, was given by his mistress to her
daughter, when she married another Le Seur, and thus he became Nathan Le Seur. Both brothers
have descendants in Madison of a high type of citizenship. Porter, himself was given the choice
by his ole Miss of belonging to either of her two sons, John Durham Scales or Nathaniel Pitcher
Scales. Porter chose Nat Scales as his young marse and come to Madison to live with him about 1845.

By obeying orders from his marse Nat Pitcher Scales, Porter operated a train of fifteen wagons
loaded with corn for the Confederate cavalry from Charlotte, North Carolina to Danville, Virginia.
Thus a Confederate soldier, he in his old age received a pension.

Porter said he got lots of practice in managing feed wagons by "Waggoning in Georgia" for his
marster between the two cities, Augusta and Wadesboro. His master, he said, traded his services
to "Dan River Jim Scales" who "bossed" the teams between Augusta and Wadesboro which were owned
by John Durham Scales and Dan River Jim Scales. These wagons also carried corn. Nat Pitcher,
Porter's master by choice, operated a store at Wadesboro, Georgia. Uncle Porter's "waggoning
in Georgia" shows Madison's connection with the far south not only through the Scales family
but through other families.

But the great honor of a tobacco country slave was that of being sold "down south to the cotton
country."

So after the war, Porter Scales came back to the Dan river in Rockingham county, and bought
his 130 acres farm from Mr. Alex Llewellyn. He liked to recount his matrimonial matters except
those of his second wife who married him for a rich nigger widower, and spent his hard won
dollars freely for lace curtains and such to adorn the town house in "Pocomo" and finally forced
him out of the "town" house into the woodhouse in the yard where he lived some years, dying
there. His church friends took charge of his body and kept it until put away by the side of
his first wife.

She, Martha Foy, he said in 1932 to me, was bought by Dr. Ben Foy of Madison from Wheeler Hancock
of Wentroth. Six of their children are living near Madison and in West Virginia, Stephen and
Lindsay Scales at the old place down at Deep Springs. He told of "going tuh see" the attractive
Betsy Ann, house girl slave of Mrs. Nancy Watkins Webster but was "cut out" by Noah Black.
Aunt Betsy Ann Black is remembered as being the superlative obstetrical nurse in homes of the
rich about Madison, and was designated by them as being a "lady" if ever there was a negro
lady. She was never dressed except in "cotton checks". "Being cut out" thus, Porter cited as
evidence of his aristocratic association: for one of Aunt Betsy's son became a Methodist preacher,
and two of her grandaughters teachers in the public schools of North Carolina.

Porter told of the white school teacher, Professor Seeker who taught in the Doll academy, Madison's
old "female academy" which still stands (remodeled since 1900 into a dwelling) on Murphy Street
at the 60 foot deep well in the street, by the old Dr. Robert Gallway house (standing still
in 1937) just south of John H. Moore's five acre homeplace. Professor Seeker, he said left
Madison and went up on Baughn's Mountain to teach among the Baughns, Lewises and Higgies and
Bibsons, pioneer families of that area. On that May 2, 1932 in his Kemoca yard, Uncle Porter
recited the poem which little Bettie Carter forgot in stage fright at Professor Seeker's "exhibition"
before Professor Jacob Doll ever started his "female school". All these pupils were pay "scholars".

The free school for Madison, the "old field schoolhouse" was way down the hill from the old
Dr. Smith house near Beaver Island Creek. Only white folks intimate with itch, head lice and
long standing poverty then sent their children to the "free ole feel schoolhouse".

Porter said as a laborer he helped build a big tobacco factory at Dr. Smith's old place. By
1880, this factory had been purchased by Madison negroes as community and fraternal "Hall"
for assemblies. It served thus to 1925 when it was abandoned, and in 1936, it was torn down,
the last of the several large plug tobacco factories operated in Madison 1845-1875 by the Scales,
Daltons and Hays.

Porter could name and designate vocationally Madison's early white residents, and others, too,
whom his Marse Nat Scales visited. His story of some Civil War refugees led to how their slave
girl, Rose, acquired a small farm two miles east of town held to this day (1937) by her descendants,
the Ned Collins family of Madison. Rose acquired the farm by Kindness to its owners, who willed
it to her.

Forced to live in cellars in Petersburg, Virginia, (Mrs. A.R. Holderby, William Holderby, Miss
Fannie Holderby, Mrs. Aiken) because of bombording Federal shells 1864 came to Madison afflicted
with tuberculosis. Their slave girl was Rose. The whites died except a son, who became a Presbyterian
minister. The whites were buried on a hill just north of the pioneer Joel Cardwell home (1937
Siegfired Smiths'). Rose was married to Uncle Henry Collins, and they lived on the place of
Mrs. Louise Whitworth and Scylla Bailey. These white women willed their tiny farm to Rose Collins
because of her kindness to them in their old age.

"My name is William Scott. I live at 401 Church Street, Raleigh, North Carolina. I wuz born
1860, March 31st. I wuz free born. My father wuz William Scott. I wuz named after my father.
My mother wuz Cynthia Scott. She wuz a Scott before she wuz married to my father. She wuz born
free. As far back as I can learn on my mother's side they were always free.

"My mother and father always told me my grandfather wuz born of a white woman. My grandfather
wuz named Elisha Scott. I have forgot her name. If I heard her name called I have forgot it.
My grandfather on my mother's side wuz a Waverly. I can't tell you all about dese white folks,
but some of 'em, when they died, left their property to mulattoes, or half-breed children,
and several of them are living in this community now. I can tell you exactly where they are,
and where they got their property. Some of them are over half white. They were by a Negro woman
who wuz a mulatto and a white man. Dey air so near white you can't tell them from white folks.
This condition has existed as long ago as I have any recollection, and it still exists, but
there are not as many children according to the relations as used to be.

"Free Negroes were not allowed to go on the plantations much. Now you see my father wuz a free
man. We lived right here in town. My father wuz a ditcher and slave gitter. One night the man
he worked for got up a crowd and come to whup him and take his money away from him. He had
paid father off that day. Dat night dey come an' got him an' blindfolded him. He moved the
blindfold from over his eyes and run an' got away from 'em. He never did go back o [TR: no]
more to the man he had been workin' for. I wuz a little boy, but I heard pappy tell it. Dat
wuz tereckly after de surrender. Pappy saw the man he had been workin' for when he slipped
the blindfold off his face, and he knowed him.

"I wuz a boy when the Yankees came to Raleigh. They came in on the Fayetteville Road. They
stopped and quartered at the edge of the town. I remember they had a guardhouse to put the
Yankees in who disobeyed. Later on they came in from the east and quartered at the old Soldiers
Home right in there, but not in the buildings. There were no houses there when the Yankees
came. They had some houses there. They built 'em. They stayed there a good while until all
the Yankees left. When the Yankees first came in they camped over near Dix Hill, when they
come into town you hardly knew where they come from. They were jist like blue birds. They jist
covered the face of the earth. They came to our house and took our sumpin' to eat. Yes sir,
they took our sumpin' to eat from us Negroes. My daddy didn't like deir takin' our rations
so he went to de officer and tole him what his men had done, and the officers had sumpin' to
eat sent over there.

"My mammy cooked some fur de officers too. Dey had a lot of crackers. Dey called 'em hard tack.
The officers brought a lot of 'em over dere. We lived near the Confederate trenches jist below
the Fayetteville Crossin' on Fayetteville Street. The breastworks were right near our house.

"I know when the colored men farmed on share craps, dey were given jist enough to live on,
and when a white man worked a mule until he wuz worn out he would sell him to de colored man.
De colored man would sometime buy 'im a old buggy; den he wuz called rich. People went to church
den on steer carts, that is colored folks, most uv 'em. De only man I wurked for along den
who wud gib me biscuit through de week wuz a man named June Goodwin. The others would give
us biscuit on Sundays, and I made up my mind den when I got to be a man to eat jist as many
biscuits as I wanted; and I have done jist dat.

"My mammy used to hire me out to de white folks. I worked and made jist enough to eat and hardly
enough clothes to wear to church until I wuz a man. I worked many a day and had only one herrin'
and a piece of bread for dinner. You know what a herrin' fish is? 'Twon't becase I throwed
my money away, twas cause we didn't git it, nuther to save up. When we farmed share crap dey
took all we made. In de fall we would have to split cord wood to live through de winter.

"I will tell you now how I got my start off now, I am going to use dis man's name. I went to
work for a man name George Whitaker. I drive a wagon for him. He 'lowed me all de waste wood
for my own use. This wuz wood dat would not sell good on de market. I hauled it over home.
I worked for him till he died, en his wife lowed me a little side crap. I made this crap, took
de money I got for it, and built a little storehouse. I disremember how long I worked fer Mis'
Hannah Whitaker. Den I quit work for her and went to work for myself. I owns dat little storehouse
yit, de one I worked wid Mis' Hannah Whitaker, en from dat I bought me a nudder home.

"When de Yankees come to Raleigh dere wuz a building dey called de Governor's Palace, it stood
whur de Auditorium now stands. Right back o' where de courthouse now stands wuz a jail and
a gallows an' a whuppin' pos' all dere together. I know when dey built de Penitentiary dey
hauled poles from Johnston County. Dey called dem Johnston County poles. Dey hauled em in on
trains. Dis post office wuz not built den. De post office den wuz built of plank set up an' down.

"I remember seeing a man hung down at de jail. His name wuz Mills. He wuz a white man. When
he got on de scaffold he said, 'What you gwine to do to me do it quick and be done wid it'.

"I think Abraham Lincoln done the colored man a heap of good. If it hadn't been for Mr. Roosevelt
there are many livin' today who would have parished to death. There are plenty of people walkin'
about now who would have been dead if Mr. Roosevelt had not helped them. The only chance I
had to hold my home wuz a chance given me through him. At my age, I cannot make much at work,
but through things he helped me, and I is holding my own."

B.N.

N.C. District:  No. 2 Worker:         Mary A. Hicks No. Words:      607 Subject:        TINEY
SHAW, EX-SLAVE OF WAKE COUNTY, 76. Story Teller:   Tiney Shaw Editor:         Daisy Bailey Waitt

TINEY SHAW Ex-Slave of Wake County, 76.

"My papa wuz a free nigger, case he wuz de son of de master who wuz named Medlin. When a chile
wuz borned ter a slave woman an' its pappy wuz de boss dat nigger wuz free from birth. I know
dat de family wuz livin' on Mis' Susy Page's place durin' de war an' we wus jist lak slaves
alldo' we wuz said to be free den.

"My pappy wuz named Madison Medlin, maybe for de president, an' my mammy wuz a pretty, slim
brown-skinned gal when I could remember. Dey said dat she wuz named fer Betsy Ross. I had four
brothers, Allison, William, Jeems and John an' five sisters named Cynthy Ann, Nancy, Sally,
Caroline an' Molly.

"We hyard a heap 'bout de war, but de white folkses didn't want us to know 'bout it. Most of
de white wimmens had ter live by dere selves durin' de time dat de men folkses wuz away at
de war, but de niggers in our neighborhood stuck ter de missus an' dar ain't no niggers from
other plantations come dar ter insult 'em nother.

"I 'members dat it wuz in April when de Yankees come an' I hyard Mis' Susy cryin', case she
wuz a widder 'oman; an' her crops wuz jist started ter be planted. She knowed dat she wuz ruint,
I reckon.

"Me an' my mammy wuz sittin' by de fireplace when de Yankees come. I crawled under de wash
bench but de Yankee officer drug me out an' he sez, 'Go fetch me a dozen aigs, an' I wants
a dozen now, mind yo'.'

"I looked till I found twelve aigs an' I started ter de house wid 'em, but bein' so excited
I drapped one uv dem an' cracked it. I wuz sceered stiff now sho' nuff, an' I runned inter
de back do' an' crawled under de bed. De officer seed me do' an' he cracks his whup an' makes
me come out den he sez, 'Nigger what's dat out dar in dat barrel in de hallway?'

"I sez, 'Lasses sir', an' he sez 'draw me some in dis cup.'

"I draws 'bout a half a cupful an' he sez, 'Nigger dat ain't no 'lasses,' an' he cracks his
whup ag'in.

"I den draws de cup full as it could be an' he tells me ter drunk it.

"I drinks dat whole cupful uf 'lasses 'fore he'll lemmie 'lone. Den I runs back ter my mammy.

"Atter awhile de Yankee comes back an' sticks his haid in de do' an' he 'lows, 'ole doman,
yo' 'lasses am leakin'.'

"Sho' nuff it wuz leakin' an' had run all down de hall an' out in de yard, but he done pull
de stopper out fer meanness so he could laff at mammy when she waded through dat 'lasses. Dey
laffs an' laffs while she go steppin' down through de 'lasses lak a turkey walkin' on cockleburs.

"Dem Yankees done a lot of mischief, I knows case I wuz dar. Dey robbed de folkses an' a whole
lot of darkies what ain't never been whupped by de master got a whuppin' from de Yankee soldiers.

"De Ku Klux Klan warn't half as bad as dem Yankee robbers what stayed in Raleigh atter de war,
robbin', plunderin', an' burnin' up ever'thing. De south had ter have de Ku Klux Klan but dey
ain't had no need fer de Yankees.

"De first winter atter de war wuz de worse winter I ever knowed, an' I'se tellin' yo' dat wuz
bad. Maybe yo' doan think so but nigh 'bout ever' nigger in de world cussed ole Abraham Lincoln
dat winter."

B.N.

N.C. District:    No. 2 Worker:           T. Pat Matthews No. Words:        1648 Subject: 
JOHN SMITH Story teller:     John Smith Editor:           Office force

[HW: 300 slaves raised [TR: illegible], 2 women, some reconstruction material]

JOHN SMITH John Smith, a Negro in the Wake County Home, Raleigh, N.C. Interviewed by T. Pat
Matthews, May 10, 1937.

"John Smith is my name, an I wuz borned at Knightdale, right at my marster's house. Yes sir,
right in his home. I wuz born right near whar de depot now is. My marster owned de lan', all
de lan' dere. I wuz bred an' bawn dere on my marster's plantation. I is, countin' day an' night,
216 years old, not countin' day an' night I is 108 years old.

"My marster's name wuz Haywood Smith an' he wuz one ob de bes' men I ebber seed. He wuz good
to all us niggers, he would come round an' talk to us, he lubbed us, and we lubbed him. My
marster, Haywood Smith, nebber married but he had a nigger 'oman. She also had a nigger husband.
She had two chillun by Marster Haywood Smith, a gal and a boy. Peter Knight owned my marster's
lan' at Knightdale atter my marster died. He died de year de war commence.

"Den de gardeen, de gardeen dat wuz appointed for all us slaves, and his name wuz Bat Moore,
he carried us slaves to Marster Haywood Smith's brother's chillun in Alabama. He wuz de gardeen.
I got dere de month de war commence. Bat Moore carried me to Alabama. Marster Elam Smith's
chillun wuz named Frank an' John Elam. Dem boy's mother wuz name' Miss Mary, dere fadder wuz
daid. Miss Mary married agin. Her first husband was Elam. Miss Mary moved off, but I staid
wid de boys.

"My mother's name wuz Rose Smith, my father's name wuz Powell. He died at Wilmington, N.C.
when dey wuz diggin' de trenches roun' de fort dere durin' da war. My mother died in Greene
Co. Alabama, at a place called Smithfield. My father belonged to Mack Powell. I made no money
before or atter de war. I worked in Alabama until de war close.

"I seed millions of Yankees, just like bees. When de war close I went wid' em. I did not work
enny for a year. I wuz so glad when de war ended, and dey tole me I wuz free I did not know
what to do. I went wid de Yankees, dey wuz kind to us. Dey said dey wuz shore glad to see us.
Dey gib us just what dey wanted us to hab.

"During de war, I had corn bread wid one piece o' meat a day. De meal wuz not sifted. De white
folks had sifters made of horse hair but de slaves didn't have no sifters. When I carried a
dress off to have it made on Sunday for Mist'ss during de war, when she could not make it herself,
she gimme a biskit. We called Sunday, Blue Monday. She gimme de biskit fur workin' on Sunday.
Den I got a biskit fur going atter de dress. I got about two biskits a year when de war was
going on. I wuz workin' to keep de soldiers fed, dey got de biskits.

"Tom Bridgers wuz marster's overseer. He had 160 chilluns by niggers. Marster Bridgers rode
a horse when he went ober de plantation.

"De only game I eber played wuz marbles. I played fer watermelons. We didn't hab eny money
so we played fer watermelons.

"In Alabama we got up at 4 o'clock and worked to 9 or 10 o'clock den we had breakfast, en rested
till 4 o'clock. Dat wuz when de weather wuz dry and hot. It wud kill de truck to work it den.
When it wuz wet we worked longer. In North Carolina we worked from sun to sun, but we rested
two hours at noon. You hardly ever heard of a man gittin' sick. If he did, he had de typhoid
den Dr. Sewell at Knightdale, atter a while called Jedge Sewell, would come en doctor him.
Old man Jedge Sewell was buried near St. Augustine School, other side Tarboro Road.

"I didn' have to pay anthing fer going to Alabama. I wuz carried. Bat Moore carried me, he
wuz de gardeen, but I had to pay to come back. Dey went atter me, and I had to work two years
to pay it back. Yes, Sir-ree, two whole years to pay fer coming back. I wuz glad to git back.
Sometimes, dey gib us a fofe of de crap to farm. Some years we didn' make much, when it wuz
dry. No, we didn' make much. People didn' sociate together, pore whites, free niggers, slaves,
and de slave owners. No dey didn' sociate much befo' de war, but dey did atter de war, dey
got to mixin' den.

"I et rabbits, an' possums, coons an' fish. I muddied de water an' caught fish. I caught rabbits,
coons, an' possums wid dogs. Dey fared but middlin pore chance wid us. We caught rabbits in
hollers an' caves; an' possums in trees, but we had a hard time ketchin' squirrels. We niggers
had no guns, so we had a hard time ketchin' squirrels. I et rabbits in summer whin dey had
kits in 'em. We caught all dese animals wid dogs.

"De white chillun didn' work, but de white folks wuz good to me. Yes, Sir-ree, dey wuz good
to me. If dey done anything to me it wuz my fault. I belonged to Elam Smith's chilluns, Frank
and John Elam.

