But the greatest thing of all was Fisher's new plan for bringing the mighty British fleets
closer together and so "handier" for battles with the Germans.  The old plan of posting British
squadrons all over the world takes us back to the Conquest of Canada; for it was the work of
St. Vincent, to whom Wolfe handed his will the night before the Battle of the Plains (1759).
St. Vincent's plan of 1803 was so good that it worked well, with a few changes, down to Fisher's
anti-German plan of 1904, about which time the French and British Navies began talking over
the best ways of acting together when the Germans made their spring. In 1905--the centenary
of Trafalgar--a British fleet visited France and a French fleet visited England.  It was a
thrilling sight to see that noble Frenchman, Admiral Caillard, whose example was followed by
all his officers, stand up in his carriage to salute the Nelson statue in Trafalgar Square.

In 1908, when Canada was celebrating the Tercentenary of a life that could never have begun
without Drake or been saved without Nelson, the French and British Prime Ministers (Clemenceau
and Campbell-Bannerman) were talking things over in Paris.  The result was that the British
left the Mediterranean mainly in charge of the French Navy, while the French left the Channel
mostly and the North Sea entirely in charge of the British.  There was no treaty then or at
any other time.  Each Government left its own Parliament, and therefore its own People, whose
servant it was, to decide freely when the time came.  But the men at the head of the French
and British fleets and armies arranged, year by year, what they would do when they got the
word GO!  At the same time (six years before the war) that the Prime Ministers were in conference
in Paris Lord Haldane, then Secretary of State for War, was warning Lord French in London that
he would be expected to command the British army against the Germans in France, and that he
had better begin to study the problem at once.

A great deal of sickening nonsense has been talked about our having been so "righteous" because
so "unprepared."  We were not prepared to attack anybody; and quite rightly too; though we
need not get self-righteous over it.  But our great Mother Country's Navy was most certainly
and most rightly prepared to defend the Empire and its allies against the attack that was bound
to come.  If France and Great Britain had not been well enough prepared for self-defence, then
the Germans must have won; and wrong would have triumphed over right all over the world.  There
is only one answer to all this "Pacifistic" stuff-and-nonsense--if you will not fight on the
side of right, then you help those who fight on the side of wrong; and if you see your enemy
preparing to attack you wrongfully, and you do not prepare to defend yourself, then you are
a fool as well as a knave.

All the great experts in statesmanship and war saw the clash coming; and saw that it was sure
to come, because the German war party could force it on the moment they were ready.  Moreover,
it was known that the men of this war party would have forced it on at once if a peace party
had ever seemed likely to oust them.  The real experts even foresaw the chief ways in which
the war would be fought.  Lord Fisher foresaw the danger of sea-going submarines long before
submarines were used for anything but the defence of harbours.  More than this, ten years before
the war he named all the four senior men who led the first British army into Flanders.  In
Lord Esher's diary for the 17th of January, 1904, ten years before the war, is the following
note about Fisher's opinion on the best British generals: "French, because he never failed
in South Africa, and because he has the splendid gift of choosing the right man (he means Douglas
Haig).  Then Smith-Dorrien and Plumer."  In the same way Joffre and Foch were known to be the
great commanders of the French.  Again in the same way (that is, by the foreknowledge of the
real experts) Lord Jellicoe, though a junior rear-admiral at the time, was pointed out at the
Quebec Tercentenary (1908) as the man who would command the Grand Fleet; while Sir David Beatty
and Sir Charles Madden were also known as "rising stars."

The following years were fuller than ever of the coming war.  In 1910 the Kaiser went to Vienna
and let the world know that he was ready to stand by Austria in "shining armour."  Austria,
Bulgaria, Turkey, and Greece were all to be used for the grand German railway from Berlin to
Bagdad that was to cut Russia off from the rest of Europe, get all the trade of the Near East
into German hands, and, by pushing down to the Persian Gulf, threaten the British oversea line
between England and Asia.

During the next three years the Italian conquest of Tripoli (next door to Egypt) and the two
wars in the Balkans hurt Germany's friends, the Turks and Bulgarians, a great deal, and thus
threatened the German Berlin-to-Bagdad "line of penetration" through the Near East and into
the Asiatic sea flank of the hated British.  With 1914 came the completion of the enlarged
Kiel Canal (exactly as foretold by Fisher years before); and this, together with the state
of the world for and against the Germans, made the war an absolute certainty at once.  The
murder of the heir to the Austrian throne, Franz Ferdinand, was only an excuse to goad the
gallant Serbians into war.  Any other would have done as well if it had only served the German
turn.

CHAPTER XXIV

WAR

(1914-1915)

No one who has had a look behind the scenes will ever forget the three War Wednesdays of 1914,
the 22nd and 29th of July and the 5th of August; for during that dire fortnight the fate of
the whole world hung trembling in the scales of life and death.

On the first the King reviewed the Grand Fleet, when twenty-two miles of fighting ships steamed
by, all ready for instant battle with the High Sea Fleet of Germany: ready not only for battles
on the water but under the water and over the water as well.  No king, even of sea-girt Britain,
was ever so good a judge of what a fleet should be as was King George on that momentous day;
for, till the death of his elder brother made him Heir to the Throne, he had spent the whole
of his keen young life as a naval officer who did his work so well that he must have risen
to a place among the best of British Admirals.  Just as it was a great thing to have had King
Edward the Wise to make (as he alone could make) the Entente Cordiale with France, so it was
a great thing to have had King George the Sailor standing by the helm of the ship of state
when the fated war had come.  British to the backbone, knowing the Empire overseas as no other
king had known it, George V was born to distrust the Germans, being the son of the Danish Princess
Alexandra, who had seen all the country round the Kiel Canal torn from the Crown of Denmark
within a year of her marriage to King Edward.  The Kaiser's lying letter to Lord Tweedmouth
in 1908 was the last straw that broke King George's little patience with the German plotters
headed by Grand Admiral von Tirpitz.  "What," he exclaimed, "would the Kaiser say, if the King
wrote a letter like that to Tirpitz?"

The chief kinds of fighting craft in the Grand Fleet can be told off on the fingers of one
hand.  First, the Battleships and Battle Cruisers. These are to our own fleets what ships-of-the-line-of-battle
were to Nelson's, that is, they are the biggest and strongest, with the biggest and strongest
guns and the thickest armour.  The battle cruiser is faster than the battleship, and therefore
not so strong; because to be faster you must thin your heavy armour to let you put in bigger
engines.  All the ships of this first kind were either Dreadnoughts or super-Dreadnoughts;
that is, they were classed according to whether they had been built during the five years after
the Dreadnought (1905-10), or during the five years just before the war (1910-14). Each year
there had been great improvements, till ships like the Queen Elizabeth had eight gigantic guns
throwing shells that weighed nearly a ton each and that could be dropped on an enemy twenty
miles away.

The second kind is Cruisers, made up of Armoured Cruisers and Light Cruisers, the Armoured
being the bigger and stronger, the Light being the smaller and faster, and both being too small
for the line of battle.  Cruisers are used in at least a dozen different ways.  They scout.
They attack and defend oversea trade.  They "mother" flotillas ("little fleets") of destroyers,
which are much smaller than themselves.  They attack and defend the front, flank, and rear
of the great lines of battle, clearing off the enemy's cruisers and destroyers and trying to
get their own torpedoes home against his larger vessels. They are the eyes and ears, the scouts
and skirmishers, the outposts and the watchdogs of the Fleet--swift, keen, sinewy, vigilant,
and able to hit pretty hard.

Thirdly come Destroyers.  This was the way in which they got their name.  Navies had small
gunboats before torpedoes were used.  Then they had torpedo-boats.  Then they built torpedo-gunboats.
Finally, they built boats big enough to destroy gunboats, torpedo-boats, and torpedo-gunboats,
without, however, losing the handy use of guns and torpedoes in vessels much smaller than cruisers.
As battleships and cruisers are arranged in "squadrons" under admirals so destroyers are arranged
in "flotillas" under commodores, who rank between admirals and captains.

A new kind of light craft--a sort of dwarf destroyer--grew up with the war.  It is so light
that it forms a class of its own--the featherweight class.  Its proper name is the Coastal
Motor Boat, or the C.M.B. for short.  But the handy man knows it simply as the Scooter. The
first scooters were only forty feet long, the next were fifty-five, the last were seventy.
Everything about them is made as light as possible; so that they can skim along in about two
feet of water at an outside speed of nearly fifty (land) miles an hour.  They are really the
thinnest of racing shells fitted with the strongest of lightweight engines.  They are all armed
with depth charges, which are bombs that go off under water at whatever depth you set them
for when attacking submarines.  The biggest scooters also carry torpedoes.  The scooters did
well in the war.  Whenever the hovering aircraft had spotted a submarine they would call up
the scooters, which raced in with their deadly depth charges.  Even destroyers were attacked
and torpedoed. One day a German destroyer off Dunkirk suddenly found itself surrounded by scooters
which came in so close that a British officer had his cap blown off by the blast from a German
gun.  He and his scooter, however, both escaped and his torpedo sank the Hun.

Fourthly, come the submarines, those sneaky vipers of the sea that seem made on purpose for
the underhand tricks of ruthless Germans.  Deadly against unarmed merchantmen, and very dangerous
in some other ways, the submarine is slow under water, no match for even a destroyer on the
surface, and "tender" to attack by gunfire, to bombs dropped from aircraft, to "sea-quaking"
depth charges, and, of course, to ramming. We shall presently hear more about these inventions
of the devil.

Fifthly, come the seaplanes, that is, aircraft which can light on the water as well as fly.
We began the war with a fair number of comparatively small planes and ended it with a great
number of large ones, a few of which could drop a ton-weight bomb fit to sink most battleships
if the shot went home.  But these monsters of the air were something more than ordinary seaplanes.
For out of the seaplane there gradually grew a regular flying boat which began to make it hot
for German submarines in 1917.  Commander Porte, of the Royal Navy, went on inventing and trying
new kinds of flying boats for nearly three years before he made one good enough for its very
hard and dangerous work. He had to overcome all the troubles of aircraft and seacraft, put
together, before he succeeded in doing what no one had ever done before--making a completely
new kind of craft that would be not only seaworthy but airworthy too.  Porte's base was at
Felixstowe, near the great destroyer and submarine base at Harwich on the east coast of England.
Strangely enough, Felixstowe was a favourite summer resort of the Kaiser whenever he came to
the British Isles.  Felixstowe is within a hundred miles of the Belgian coast, where the Germans
had submarines at Ostend and Zeebrugge.  It is only fifty from the Dutch lightship on the North
Hinder Bank, where German submarines used to come up so as to make sure of their course on
their way between the English Channel and their own ports.  The neighbourhood of this lightship
naturally became a very favourite hunting ground of the new flying boats, which used to bomb
the Huns whenever one of their submarines was sighted either on or below the surface.  Forty
flying boats were launched in 1917, and forty-four submarines were bombed.  The "Porte Baby,"
as the flying boat of '17 was called, measured a hundred feet across the wings and carried
a small aeroplane, complete with its own airman, on top.  The "Porte Super-Baby" of 1918 could
lift no less than fifteen tons and was easily the strongest aircraft in the world.  The "Baby's"
crew was four--pilot, navigator, wirelesser, and engineer.  The "Super-Baby" carried more.
Two gigantic Zeppelins and several submarines were destroyed by the "Babies."  The "Super-Babies"
had no proper chance of showing what they could do, as the Armistice came (11 November 1918)
before they were really at work.  Porte had many Canadians in his crews; and Canadians brought
down the first Zeppelin and sank the first submarine.

