"Among the number was the 29th Connecticut Volunteers (colored). On the 8th day of August,
1864, the regiment left Beaufort, S. C., and disembarked at Bermuda Hundreds, Va., on the 14th
of the same month. This regiment was brigaded with the 7th, 8th, and 9th United States Colored
Troops, forming with other colored regiments a division of the 10th Army Corps. We arrived
just as the active movements terminating in the capture of the Weldon Railroad had commenced.
That railroad being on the then extreme left of our line it was deemed advisable, as a feint,
to keep the enemy well engaged on our right. For this purpose the 2d and 10th Army Corps had
been assembled, as secretly as possible, near Bermuda Hundreds, and on the morning of August
14th had advanced upon the enemy's works near Deep Bottom.

"This regiment accompanied the force as far as Deep Bottom, where, with the 7th United States
Colored Troops and one light battery, it was left to defend the post, under command of Colonel
Wooster. The two corps moved farther to the right and front, and soon became warmly engaged.
During the fighting General Butler, desirous to ascertain the strength and position of the
enemy immediately in our front, ordered Colonel Wooster to make a reconnoissance with this
regiment and the 7th United States Colored Troops.

"This was successfully accomplished, the men in this their first encounter with the enemy,
displaying great coolness and bravery. Soon after this we were relieved and ordered to join
our brigade, then actively engaged at the front.

"We set out in a drenching rain storm, and after a tiresome march reached the battle-field
about dark. Our forces had suffered a bloody repulse, and had just finished burying our dead
under a flag of truce. The burial parties with their bloody stretchers were returning, and
the sharp crack of the rifle began again to be heard, and so continued with more or less fierceness
during the night.

"At daylight hostilities, except on the picket line, were not resumed. The opposing forces
lay and narrowly watched each other's movements. Towards night, however, it was discovered
that the enemy was massing in our immediate front, and just before sunset they commenced the
attack. The contest was sharp and short; a fierce roar of musketry, mingled with wild yells
and the deep bass of cannon; a fainter yell and volleys less steady; finally a few scattering
shots and the attack was repulsed. As this movement of the two corps on the right was merely
a feint to cover more active operations on the left, it was resolved to withdraw the forces
during the night. The movement began just after dark. We marched to the Bermuda Hundreds front,
and pitched our camp near Point of Rocks. On the 24th of August, 1864, the 10th Corps relieved
the 18th Corps in front of Petersburg. Here we remained, doing duty in the trenches, until
the 24th of September, at which time the 10th Corps marched to the rear to rest a few days
preparatory to an advance upon Richmond then in contemplation. While here our ragged, dirty,
and shoeless men were clad, washed, and shod as rapidly as possible.

"At length, at about sundown, September 28th, the corps broke camp, and we once more started
for Deep Bottom, which place we reached about four A. M., September 29th.

"Just as the first faint glimmerings of light were visible the movement against Richmond commenced.
After pushing through a deep wood our brigade formed in line of battle near the New Market
Road, under fire of a rebel battery. We had scarcely formed when it was found that the rebel
lines had been broken further to the left, and we were ordered forward in pursuit of the flying
foe. Three successive lines had been carried by impetuous charges, and during that summer forenoon
the enemy on all sides was pressed steadily back. By noon Fort Harrison, a large powerful work,
and a key to a large portion of the rebel line, had been carried at the bayonet point by the
18th Corps, and we found ourselves in front of the strongest line of the outer defenses of
Richmond. An assault was immediately ordered. Two regiments of the brigade to which this regiment
was attached,--the 7th Maryland and 8th Pennsylvania--were selected to make the attack on Fort
Gilmer, the 29th Connecticut and 9th Maryland being held in reserve. A charge was made on the
double-quick through a felled forest, half a mile in extent. They were met by a murderous enfilading
fire, and after an obstinate struggle were forced back. They re-formed quickly and again charged,
this time up the very guns of the fort. After a most heroic fight they were again compelled
to retire. Some of the companies sprang into the ditch, and refused to surrender even after
their companions had been driven back. They continued the unequal contest until dark, when
we were forced to leave the brave men to their fate.

"After the repulse of the second charge, the brigade formed under a galling fire, preparatory
to another charge, but after a careful survey of the enemy's position, it was deemed advisable
to delay the attack for the present. Darkness soon after coming on, the troops were quietly
withdrawn to one of the captured lines a short distance in our rear. Next morning vigorous
measures were at once taken to reverse this line, and to render it impregnable against a counter
attack, which was constantly expected. While busily engaged in this work the rebels opened
upon us with a fierce artillery fire. A powerful force, said to be under the direction of General
Lee in person, had been silently massed in front of Fort Harrison, screened from our view by
the inequality of the ground. They soon made their presence known, however, and advanced with
determination. They were met by a fire that sent them reeling back with immense loss. Again
they formed, and were again driven back. Another charge more furious, and another repulse more
bloody, finally convinced them that the attempt was useless, and we were left in possession
of our victories of the previous day. After this, comparative quiet reigned for a few days,
but they were not days of idleness; the captured lines had to be reversed and heavy picket
duty to be done, and of these duties this regiment had its full share.

"On the 7th of October, the enemy made a dash on our right, and at first met with considerable
success. This regiment was detached from the brigade, and ordered to the right to assist in
repelling the attack. Before reaching that point the attack had been repulsed and the fighting
was nearly over. We formed a skirmish line and remained until midnight, when we returned to
the brigade.

"On the 13th of October a reconnoissance was made upon the enemy's lines in front of our right,
in which this regiment took an active part. The fighting was severe, and the loss considerable.
The men behaved like veterans: but the wary foe behind his strong works bade defiance to our
small force, and so, after fifteen hours of fighting, at night we returned to camp. On the
27th of October a movement commenced on our extreme left which required the active co-operation
of the Army of the James, that the enemy might be kept busily engaged at all points. This regiment,
as part of the force selected for this purpose, set out early on the morning of the 27th, and
came in contact with the outposts of the enemy. Deploying as skirmishers, after a short, sharp
action, we drove the enemy within entrenchments. After driving in the skirmish line, we remained
in front of the enemy's works, picking his men as opportunity offered, and keeping him engaged
generally. We were in an open field, exposed to the fire of an enemy protected by strong earthworks.
The men behaved very well; for twenty-three hours they held this position, exposing themselves
with the most reckless indifference, taking the ammunition from the bodies of their dead and
wounded companions when their own was exhausted, and in all respects, if valor be any criteron
of manhood, proving themselves to be 'good men and true.' At length on the morning of the 28th,
the troops were withdrawn, and we returned to camp.

"On the 19th day of November, the regiment was ordered to garrison certain detached forts on
the New Market road, which were considered of great importance on account of the relation they
bore to the whole line north of the James. That this regiment was sent to hold them, was certainly
a marked tribute to its valor and efficiency, and was expressly given to it on that account.
We remained here until the formation of the 25th Army Corps, when on the 5th day of December,
1864 we removed to the left of Fort Harrison, forming a part of the 2nd Brigade, 1st Division
of that Corps.

"Here we remained during the rest of the winter, picketing, drilling, building forts, and making
roads, and preparing for the spring campaign. One division had been sent to Fort Fisher, and
but two were with the Army of the James. At length, late in the month of March, 1865, one of
the remaining divisions was sent to the left, while the division to which this regiment was
attached, together with one division of the 24th Army Corps, was left to guard the defences
north of the James. The campaign opened vigorously. The last week in March brought a series
of splendid victories to the Union armies, and we began to feel that the 'end' so ardently
desired was near at hand. This regiment had been placed in Fort Harrison, the most important
position on our line. The fort was said to be mined, and it was feared that the rebels would
make an attack in force near that point. On Saturday and Sunday, April 1st and 2nd, the fighting
on the left had been terrific but generally favorable to us. We were ordered to observe with
great care all movements of the enemy in our front.

"At sunset of April 2nd, we witnessed the last rebel dress parade in Virginia from the magazine
of Fort Harrison. Early on the morning of April 3rd, 1865, the picket fires of the enemy began
to wane, and an ominous silence to prevail within his lines. Very soon deserters began to come
within our lines who reported that the lines in our front were being evacuated. In a little
while we saw the barracks of Fort Darling in flames, and tremendous explosions followed each
other in rapid succession. The earliest dawn revealed to us the deserted lines, with their
guns spiked and their tents standing. We were ordered to advance at once, but cautiously. The
troops jumped over the breastworks, and, avoiding the torpedoes, filed through the rebel abbatis,
and then began the race for Richmond.

"No words can describe the enthusiasm of the troops as they found themselves fairly within
the rebel lines, and tramping along the bloody roads leading to the 'capitol of secessia.'
The honor of first entering that city was most earnestly contested; many regiments threw away
everything but their arms, while this regiment 'double-quicked' in heavy marching orders. Two
companies of this regiment--G and C--had been sent forward as skirmishers reaching the city
close on the heels of our cavalry, and were, without the slightest doubt, the first companies
of infantry to enter the city. Through the heat and dust the troops struggled on, and at last,
as we came in full view of the city, the air was rent with such cheers as only the brave men,
who had fought so long and so nobly for that city could give. Since that time our history has
been blessedly unfruitful in stirring events. We remained in Richmond for a few days, and were
then ordered to Petersburg; from here we went to Point Lookout, Md., where we remained until
the 25th Corps was ordered to Texas. We embarked for Texas on the 10th day of June 1865, arriving
at Brazos de Santiago July 3rd, 1865. From Brazos we marched to Brownsville, on the Rio Grande,
where we continued until ordered to Hartford, Conn., to be mustered out. On the 26th day of
October, 1865, we left Brownsville for Hartford, where the regiment was discharged and paid
on the 25th day of November, 1865.

"The following is a report of changes and casualties in the 29th Regiment Connecticut Volunteers,
(colored), from date of organization to date of discharge:

Gain by recruits                    8 officers, 210 enlisted men.
Loss  " discharge                   5     "     121       "
 "    " dismissal                   1     "      --       "
 "    " desertion                  --     "     103       "
 " died of disease                  1     "     153       "
 "    "    wounds                   1     "      21       "
 " by killed in battle             --     "      24       "
Promotion into other organizations  5     "      --       "
Total gain                          8     "     210       "
 "    loss                         13     "     422       "
Wounded, officers, 6; men, 102. Captured, officer, 1; missing, none.

"It will be necessary to remark here that fully one hundred per cent of our desertions occurred
while at New Haven, and during the organization of the regiment very few desertions occurred
after we left the State. Our total of killed and wounded was--enlisted men, 123; officers,
6. The officer who was captured eventually re-joined us. The officers lost by promotion into
other organizations were--Lieutenant-Colonel H. C. Ward, promoted to be colonel of the 31st
United States Colored Troops; Major F. E. Camp, promoted to be lieutenant-colonel of the 29th
United States Colored Troops; Captain E. W. Bacon, promoted to be major of the 117th United
States Colored Troops; Assistant Surgeon Crandall, promoted to be surgeon of the 33d United
States Colored Troops; 1st Lieutenant H. H. Brown, promoted to be captain of the 1st United
States Colored Troops; 2d Lieutenant Edward Coe, promoted to be 1st lieutenant and adjutant
of the 27th United States Colored Troops.

"Thus have I attempted to trace the history of this regiment. I have done this with some degree
of minuteness, owing to the fact that, as we were considered a United States organization less
can be learned concerning us from the reports of the adjutant-general of the State than concerning
any other Connecticut organization. And as the employment of colored troops was at first tried
as a grand experiment, the people of Connecticut may be desirous to know how far, in the case
of their colored regiment, that experiment has been successful. Justice, too, demands that
those who are the most competent judges--those who have been with the colored troops on the
march and in the battle--should give their testimony to the loyalty and valor of this despised
race. They went forth to fight the battles of the Union when there was every thing to discourage
even the bravest. Both officers and men knew, that should they escape death on the battle-field
a fate awaited them, if captured, from which death on the battle-field would have been a glorious
relief. The poor rights of a soldier were denied to them. Their actions were narrowly watched,
and the slightest faults severely commented upon. In spite of all this the negro soldier fought
willingly and bravely, and with his rifle alone he has vindicated his manhood, and stands confessed
to-day as second in bravery to none.

"I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

                                    "DAVID TORRANCE,

    "(Late) Lieutenant-Colonel Commanding 29th C. V."

DIARY OF THE THIRD REGIMENT DURING THE SIEGE OF PORT HUDSON.

"May 1st, 1863.--Regiment broke camp at Fort William, Baton Rouge, at 5 A. M.; marched out
of Bayou Monticino on the road to Port Hudson. In the evening Company G, under Lieutenant Quinn,
was detailed for picket duty on the Clinton Road. Colonel promised to encamp close by with
the rest of the regiment, but instead of doing so he fell back to the junction of the Clinton
and Port Hudson Roads, thus leaving the rebels a fine chance to cross the bayou and cut off
Company G from all support. Lieutenant Quinn was doubtful of the colonel, and to satisfy himself
sent 2d Lieutenant Frederick Dame with twenty men back to the woods to see how things were.
Lieutenant Dame found that Colonel Nelson had retreated back to Baton Rouge and reported. Lieutenant
Quinn, feeling that if attacked during the night he would not receive aid from the regiment,
changed his position from the place assigned in the woods by Colonel Nelson, to one 300 yards
further down in the woods, and on the road-side. He then threw out his pickets in all directions,
but only a short distance from the remainder of the company who were held in reserve. Every
man was on that night. Occasionally horsemen were seen in the clearing, but as they did not
appear to know of our company's proximity the pickets did not fire on them.

"12th.--Had a slight skirmish.

"13th.--Companies G and E, under Lieutenant Quinn, went on a reconnoissance; returned at midnight.

"14th.--All quiet in camp.

"15th.--Fell back to Bayou Monticino.

"16th.--Commenced to build a second bridge at Monticino Bayou.

"17th.--Company G, Lieutenant Dame, and Company E, Lieutenant John Keefe, went on a scout under
command of Lieutenant Quinn, captured one horse, cattle, and had a skirmish with rebel pickets.

"18th.--Company G on picket ordered to block the road with felled trees, connecting the Clinton
and Bayou Sara roads, to prevent the rebel cavalry and artillery getting in the rear of Dudley's
brigade, who were camped near Plains Store.

"19th.--Colonel Nelson and Lieutenant Quinn rode to Dudley's headquarters. The regiment marched
two miles nearer to Port Hudson in the evening; were ordered back and bivouacked that night.

"20th.--At 10 P. M. again for Port Hudson. After hours of hard marching in heavy order in a
hot sun on dusty roads and very little water to drink, the regiment camped at dark in the left
of the Union line on the road leading to Springfield landing.

"21st.--Battle of Plains Store. During the morning there were rumors of a fight, as the rebels
were determined to prevent a junction of the force under Augur and Grover, of Banks' army,
who were moving down from St. Francis. This brought on the above-named battle, in which the
negro regiment held the extreme left, and thus prevented the rebels getting in the rear of
the Union troops.

"22d.--Companies A and G drove back some rebel pickets, capturing one man, horse, equipments,
and two rifles. The man was thrown by his horse and was badly hurt, his head striking against
a tree.

"23d.--We formed a junction to-day with Banks, and Port Hudson is invested.

"24th.--Companies E and G, under Captain Blake, on a scout.

"25th.--To-day the regiment marched from the extreme left to the extreme right of the Union
line, a hard long tramp again in heavy order. At night we encamped near Sandy Creek, close
to the Mississippi. Each man had to carry his own baggage. This regiment was never given any
wagons.

"26th.--At Sandy Creek protecting men laying the pontoon bridge. Skirmishing all day with the
rebels. The boys are getting used to fighting.

"27th.--Storming the batteries. The negro soldiers prove the bravest of the brave. To-day was
fought one of the most desperate battles on record. Our brigade, six companies of the 1st,
and nine companies of 3rd Regiment Louisiana Native Guards, commenced fighting at quarter of
an hour before 6 A. M. The 1st, under Lieutenant-Colonel Bassett, advanced in skirmish line
up through the wood and soon drew the enemy's fire. The 3rd under Lieutenant-Colonel Finnegass,
were in line of battle about fifty yards in rear of the first, the whole command under Colonel
John A. Nelson, of the 3rd Regiment. The rebels opened with infantry fire and shells at short
range, and their fire was very effective and for a short time the first, which was in danger
of utter destruction, wavered, when Colonel Bassett and his colored officers moved among the
men encouraging them by their own fearless examples. At this crisis, Colonel Finnegass sent
forward his four left companies, under Captain John E. Quinn, to support the 1st. Captain Quinn
moved up in good order, placing his left company under Lieutenant John O'Keefe so as to face
the bridge on his left, held by the rebels in rifle-pits, Finnegass keeping the other five
companies well in hand, to use them when most needed. When within pistol shot of the fortifications,
to their dismay they were stopped--not by the rebels, but by a back flow of the river. The
water was not more than forty feet across, but over eight feet deep. To cross this without
boat or bridge was impossible, particularly under such a terrible fire as the rebels poured
upon them in front and on both flanks. On the left the rebels were actually in their rear so
far had the gallant fellows advanced. The slaughter was now becoming fearful. Colonel Finnegass
at this juncture asked Captain Quinn if he could cross the water; Quinn called on volunteers
to follow him. The whole that was left of his own company, G, and Lieutenant O'Keefe with Company
E, responded to his call, and in they plunged, the men holding their rifles and cartridge boxes
above their heads. In the mean time Bassett and Finnegass (whose men were lying down) kept
a continual fire on the rebel gunners and drove them from their guns, but the water was too
much for the men, and only 35 or 40--with Quinn and O'Keefe and Lieutenants Burnham and Dame--succeeded
in crossing. This handful actually followed their reckless leader up to the very cannon's mouth,
and for 15 or 20 minutes held the whole rebel battery in their hands. Colonel Finnegass seeing
that in a few minutes more his brave men would be destroyed, rushed into the water and ordered
Quinn to fall back, as a regiment of rebels were clambering over the works to get in their
rear. The brave fellows fell back, but alas, few of them ever answered roll-call again. Out
of the band but six re-crossed alive, and of these, Lieutenants O'Keefe, Burnham and Sergeants
Vincent and Taylor, who were wounded; Quinn and Dame were the only ones unhurt. The whole regiment
now fell back about 600 yards, in the shelter of the woods. Six times we advanced, hoping to
find some spot where the men could cross, but in vain. We entered this fight with 1080 men,
and lost 371 killed and 150 wounded; total loss, 421. The rebels shelled us with their heavy
guns. On our front were artillery and infantry; on our left a wooded ridge full of riflemen.
We had two six-pounders; one of them was dismounted early in the fight, and the other the gunners
ran out of range, it being of no use.

