The operation of the system was, however, well known to his lordship. The under-secretary,
Sir J. Stephen, with extraordinary exactness, described the actual condition of the prisoner
population--"living, not by a healthy competition for employment, but by an habitual and listless
dependence on the public purse." He depicted the apathy and indolence, the low tone of moral
feeling, the lamentable and degrading habits which prevailed; and asserted that in the hands
of Lord Stanley, were proofs of an existing state of convict society, such as would be contemplated
with deep solicitude. It may not be impossible to reconcile in detail these official and parliamentary
declarations; but, taken alone, they would lessen our confidence in the value of ministerial
explanations, not less than in official reports.

The comptroller-general stated that the system would not only prove beneficial to Great Britain,
but work a great moral reformation in the convict population:[266] "that it had fully answered
its object." These assertions were confirmed by the governor, who remarked, "that the men behaved
as well as possible." Such views were strongly opposed by other testimony; among the most conspicuous
was that of Dr. Hampton, surgeon-superintendent of the Sir George Seymour, who, charged with
the care of a party from Pentonville prison, resided some time in the colony. He described
the prisoner population as sunk in the deepest debasement; the ticket-holders in great misery;
the reformed prisoners committed to the charge of felons; the better disposed taunted as "pets,
psalm-singers, and Pentonvillains." Whatever had been most strongly affirmed by the enemies
of the system, was amply sustained by his testimony.[267]

To the same effect was the evidence of Mr. Boyd, formerly of Pentonville, and appointed an
assistant-superintendent to Darlington, Maria Island. This station was regarded by the government
as superior to all. Separated entirely from the free population, it was accessible only by
authority; yet close to head-quarters, it had the advantage of direct inspection and control.
There were, at this time, 800 persons subject to twenty-one officers, civil and religious.
Not a single soldier was on the island, and yet there were "no prisoners more orderly, or better
behaved, in Van Diemen's Land."[268] This reputation it maintained, while the stations of Rocky
Hills and Broad Marsh, were infamous for the abandonment of all order and decency. "Few could
be favorably compared with Darlington, and none possessed its local advantages."[269] But the
interior, as described by Mr. Boyd, entirely changes the scene. He declared the precautions
against corrupt intercourse insufficient and unsuccessful: the most disgusting language was
common; hoary villains and boys were worked together; the school books were torn and defaced;
education was mere pretence; a large proportion of offences were unpunished; lashes were received
in hardened indifference; the criminal habits of the men were unbroken; conspiracies to murder
were frequently denounced. On the whole he concluded, that there could exist no better school
of crime than a probation station.[270]

The laxity which prevailed was everywhere confessed, except by the immediate dependents of
government. The Rev. Mr. Fry, a clergyman of Hobart Town, differed, however, with the colony
in general. His earnest defence of the probation system (1845) was published by command, and
quoted by Lord Stanley in the House of Lords. He asserted that the convict population had placed
the settlers in ease and opulence; and that the bulk of the colonists were emancipists, who
were bound to assist the condemned outcasts of Europe to acquire honesty and independence.
"The clank of chains," said the reverend gentleman, "is now seldom heard, and the deportment
of free laborers, grateful and respectful, has succeeded to the scowl of malignity, with which
the assigned white slaves regarded their owners." He asserted that the gangs recalled the men
from intemperance; that they were attentive to religious teaching; that the parties, although
almost abandoned to self-discipline, yet lived tranquilly, unawed by surrounding force. These
opinions were afterwards modified.[271]

Notwithstanding the habitual acquiescence of the colonists in the measures of the crown, the
development of Lord Stanley's system occasioned considerable sensation. The rapid increase
of prisoners early excited alarm. The masses accumulated from all parts of the empire presented
a new and fearful aspect: crimes reached a height beyond example in any civilised country.
The settlers, environed by parties, were subject to frequent irruptions, and were compelled
to guard their dwellings, as if exposed to a foreign enemy. The men wandered miles from the
stations, alone: at the hiring depôts they were left almost to their discretion. According
to the evidence of a magistrate, neither the comptroller-general, nor any confidential subordinate,
visited the station of Cleveland from its establishment to its dissolution. At another, ninety
men, near the township of Oatlands, under the charge of one free overseer, were worked in a
line of seven miles extent. A settler, whose flocks had been pillaged, brought back twice in
one month the same party; and again they escaped, threatening vengeance on the authors of their
arrest. At Jerusalem station, 800 convicts were permitted to roam on their parole; to carry
bundles in and out of barracks unsearched; to disguise their persons, and to change their dress.
Their daring highway robberies ended in the proof of these facts before the supreme court at
Hobart Town. At Deloraine, nearly one thousand prisoners were in charge of twenty persons,
including the military: on one occasion, eighteen started for the bush, and filled the neighbourhood
with terror. The local authorities could offer nothing but condolence; and even this poor relief
was presented in a peculiar form. It was alleged that the amount of depredation and violence
had not risen more rapidly than the number of convicts. This was scarcely correct; but it was
little consolatory to the sufferers, assailed so much the more frequently, though by different
hands.[272] Their honors the judges, with repeated and pointed condemnation, reprehended the
utter want of proper surveillance and restraint, as cruel alike to the settlers and the convicts.
Nor were the towns exempt from extraordinary inundations: many hundreds of men were turned
out from the penitentiary on Saturday afternoon, and were thus exposed to the temptations of
a populous city.

The officers of the department were charged with the trial of a system professing to breathe
the most exalted charity. Had they, however, designed to expose theoretical benevolence to
endless execration, no course could have been chosen more obvious. The liberty and indulgence
given to the unfortunate prisoners seemed to bring them purposely within the circle of their
old temptations. Many were led into scenes which act with fascinating power on men of criminal
tendencies: they were often seen lingering for hours around the doors of houses for the sale
of liquor. Amusements, which are always attended with some peril, were rendered more public
and accessible. Dancing houses of the lowest kind were licensed, until their noise and confusion
compelled their suppression. The regulation of night-passes became much less practically stringent.
Everything facilitated the allurements and the commerce of crime. Receivers were always at
hand, and robbers were tolerably insured when the first danger was over, by the rapid shipment
of their spoil. Offenders, practised in the fraud of cities, were admitted into the towns,
and placed in situations precisely calculated to recall their former habits, and excite their
habitual passions. The puisne judge, in passing sentence on prisoners of this class, for new
crimes, and holding up their police character in his hands, exclaimed--"Now, Mr. Attorney-general,
I ask you what we may expect if such men as these are assigned in towns. Is it not surprising
that I have to try such cases? It is shameful! It is shameful!" And such will be the opinion
of mankind.

The chief expedients of Lord Stanley to relieve the colony from the redundancy of labor, and
pressure on the treasury, were never applied. At the suggestion of Mr. Bishton, a clergyman
of Westbury, Sir Eardley Wilmot recommended the leasing portions of land to well conducted
ticket-holders. This was however strongly opposed on the spot, as tending to depreciate property,
and inconsistent with the social circumstances of the country. The English allotment system
was inapplicable: at home, it is a subsidiary to the general resources of the laborer, who
can commonly find employment with the farmers, and easily dispose of the produce of his supplementary
toil.

But a project of greater moment was contemplated by Lord Stanley, and adopted by Mr. Gladstone,
and advanced far towards completion. This was the formation of a new colony, called North Australia.
The civil list, composed of officers of modest designations--as superintendent, chairman of
sessions, and clerk of the peace--was framed with the strictest economy, and the expense was
to be defrayed by the English treasury. The colonists for the most part were to consist of
exiles landed with pardons, either from England or Van Diemen's Land, and thither female prisoners
were intended to be sent. During the first three years only new settlers were to be furnished
with food for one year; with clothing, tents, tools, bedding, and seed. £10,000 in all, were
to be expended in public buildings. To the office of superintendent, Colonel Barney was appointed,
under the governor of New South Wales. A party set out for their destination: they were discouraged
by the appearance of the country, but before an experiment could be made they were recalled.

A more practical measure was the extension of conditional pardons to the neighbouring countries,
the operation of which had been limited to Van Diemen's Land. The dearth of labor in New Holland
induced the settlers to send vessels to this colony, and many hundreds, liberated by the new
form of pardon, were conveyed to pastoral districts on the opposite shore.

During the short official relation of Mr. Secretary Gladstone, who in 1846 succeeded Lord Stanley,
Sir Eardley Wilmot was recalled, and Mr. La Trobe and Sir William Denison were placed in succession
at the head of our colonial affairs. Like his predecessor, Mr. Gladstone complained that the
information conveyed by Wilmot and the comptroller-general, amidst abundant statistics, left
the main moral questions obscure. Mr. Forster had passed beyond the reach of censure; and Sir
Eardley Wilmot maintained that the actual evils imputed had formed the topic of incessant communications.
He derived his impressions from others; and seeing but the surface, was persuaded to the last
that the probation system had not failed.

The despatch of Mr. La Trobe fully corroborated the common report. His honest discrimination
was worthy his high reputation for integrity. Nothing the reader has perused will be unsustained
by his more elaborate analysis--which may be expressed in one sentence--as illustrating both
the high-wrought theory and the mischievous practice of the probation department:--"In spite
of all the superior arrangements of the system, vice of every description is to be met with
on every hand: not as an isolated spot, but as a pervading stain."[273]

Dr. Hampton, whose representations had largely contributed to these official changes, which
were however fortified by a mass of concurrent testimony, received the appointment of comptroller-general.
Meanwhile the office of secretary of state for the colonies devolved on Earl Grey, and at his
assumption of office he abandoned at once all the schemes of his predecessors. The practice
of transportation he resolved to discontinue, and in its stead to inflict punishment at home;
and to send out the prisoners, when entitled to liberation, to the various colonies of the
British empire. His expectation that their labor would be highly prized, was fortified by the
"Associations" at Port Phillip to obtain laborers from Van Diemen's Land, and the resolutions
of the committee of the New South Wales Council, where a strong disposition was exhibited,
on the part of employers, to renew transportation. Several ship-loads had been sent from Pentonville,
and the nominal lists of their employment and wages, appeared to assure an unbounded field
for their successors. To shut out the possibility of complaint, however, Earl Grey sent circulars
to all the colonies on this side the Cape of Good Hope. The reply was universally adverse;
and this plan, which a few years before would have been gladly accepted, was rendered impracticable
perhaps for ever.

The total abandonment of North Australia was a subject of deep regret to its projectors, and
was too hastily done; but as a substitute, Earl Grey proposed the creation of villages in the
more remote districts of Van Diemen's Land. The erection of houses and a limited cultivation
of forest land, was expected by his lordship to afford employment for the ticket holders, and
to yield a fund for an equal amount of free emigration. It was intended these dwellings, built
on quarter acre allotments, should be sold to prisoners, or subject to a rental of £5 per annum;
and a clergyman and schoolmaster provided in each. It would be useless even to examine the
plan, which was based on a valuation of crown lands at that time entirely erroneous, and a
fallacious estimate of mere labor, in any form whatever.

Late changes, effected by a more intelligent superintendence, and the vigilant censorship of
the public, may be readily confessed. The decrease of numbers in the gangs, and the greatly
improved resources of the convict department, have ameliorated several evils which formerly
elicited great complaint. The male establishments at Hobart Town are patterns of neatness--the
female, of disorder.

It merely remains to be stated, that the present system is to send out prisoners when entitled
to tickets-of-leave; to disperse them through various districts in search of labor. In the
colony they enjoy all the privileges of free laborers, except responsibility to a police magistrate.
They will be entitled to release at a term prefixed, but on condition that they pay a sum for
their passage. Few have either the ability or self-restraint required by this regulation, and
unless it is relaxed they must remain prisoners during the term of their sentence--often for life.

A great variety of details might be added; but the total revolution in the system will now
lead the enquirer into the state of society rather than the management of gangs and penitentiaries.
The despatches, which fill volumes of blue books, are rather transactions of penal philosophers
than trustworthy guides to the historian of transportation; and the writer has not relied exclusively
on these authorities, even when he has quoted them--a discretion amply justified by their endless
contradictions.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 253: Address to Council, June, 1841.]

[Footnote 254: Sir James Graham, December, 1842.]

[Footnote 255: Report of Emigration Commissioners.]

