DORCAS. That my own marriage has been a happy one, and that my good husband has striven, by
recognizing my womanly as well as individual idiosyncrasies, to render the yoke as light as
it possibly can be, is the very circumstance that gives me a right to speak and offer my testimony
against ideas which I think wholly unwarranted by the facts in the case. The views of modern
philosophers, attacking the sanctity of Christian marriage, are to me perfectly abhorrent.
Deprive marriage of its mystical, sacramental, penitential character, and it ceases to be the
bulwark of a well-ordered society. I must again call upon St. John Chrysostom to speak for
me. He says: 'Marriage is one of the most surprising mysteries, by reason of the sublime character
which belongs to it, of representing the alliance of Jesus Christ with His Church. The necessary
consequence of which is, that it should not be contracted lightly and through interested motives.
No, marriage is no bargain; it is the union of the entire life.' This is what true marriage
should be; but in so far as mankind fall below the lofty standards set before them, so far
does actual marriage fail to reach its glorious ideal. Meantime, reverence for maidenhood is
one of the strongest safeguards of the sanctity of wedded life, and no delusions of any school,
whether romantic, sentimental, Micheletic, humanitarian, or Lutheranistic, should be permitted
to obscure this reverence. Neither my own experience, nor that of the young maidens best known
to me, teaches me that the idle hours of women are haunted by dreams of some human lover, who
must be found to save them from despair. I cannot think that marriage is essential to, or even
best for, the happiness of women. If we enter the nearest institution of Charity Sisters, Sisters
of Mercy, or of the Poor, we cannot fail to remark the contrast between the healthful, cheery,
unsolicitous countenances of the inmates, and the nervous, suffering, careworn faces of the
wives and mothers in our midst. Both live in the conscientious performance of equally estimable
duties, but the pleasing of a Heavenly Master would seem to be a more peaceful and less wearing
task than the gratification of an earthly lord. Let us hearken for a moment to an eloquent
French theologian: 'Woman's nature, in some exceptional cases, rises to such a height of intellect
and sensitiveness, that it ceases to be capable of accepting that subordination which constitutes
the essence of Christian marriage. Think you there are not women athirst for the ideal; who
are crushed by the commonplace of ordinary affections; who would go beyond that narrow circle
traced round them by domestic cares? Give to such natures as good, kind, and conscientious
a husband as you will, do you think he can ever satisfy the ardent longings of their mind and
heart? Do you think they can find in the family the realization of the brilliant dream caressed
by them from the earliest years of infancy? Do you not believe that they will constantly feel
cruel disappointments, infinite tortures, and the deepest anguish?'

PAUL. But if such be a true statement of the case, what are these good ladies to do?

DORCAS. The world has always need of intellect and enthusiasm, and these, directed by the spirit
of devotion and self-sacrifice, without which nothing good or great can be accomplished, will
point the way to the fulfilment of whatever may be the especial vocation of the individual.
The author above quoted continues: 'Some heroic virgins have played so wonderful a part that,
by the sublimity of their devotion and the power of their intellect, they have occasionally
eclipsed the renown of the most illustrious men. A St. Catherine of Sienna was the light of
doctors, the ambassadress of nations, the counsellor of popes, and the admiration of her age.
A St. Rose of Viterbo, a charming and graceful child, became the intrepid buckler of Rome against
the pretensions of the Ghibelline emperors. A St. Clara, by her ardent love for the poor and
the Cross, was worthy of aiding the Seraph of Assisi in his admirable reform. A St. Theresa
astonished the world by the grandeur of her character in the age of the Loyolas, the Xaviers,
and the Francis Borgias.' To these few but striking instances we may add Joan of Arc, whose
patriotism and valor saved her country from the dominion of the foreign invader, and, in our
own day, Florence Nightingale and Miss Dix, together with hosts of courageous maidens, who
in every Christian land yearly devote themselves to the service of suffering humanity. I should
weary you, uncle, were I to pursue this subject into farther depths: suffice it to say that
it is one which no man, however tender or talented, could ever exhaust, for there are chords
in the feminine organization beyond his comprehension--strange chords, the resolution of which
will be found only in that heaven where there shall be no marrying nor giving in marriage.

PAUL. You mentioned Joan of Arc: did you observe that the author of 'Hannah Thurston' notices
the fact, that while she has been poetized by Schiller, Southey, and others, no woman has ever
yet made her the theme of song?

DORCAS. I was no little surprised to find such a reproach issuing from the lips of one who
must have known that no man had yet sung her in his verse who had not violated the truth of
history and smirched the beauty of a noble character, devoted solely to her country and her
God, by picturing her as enamored of some mortal lover. Shakspeare must here receive his share
of blame, although the national prejudices still existent in his age may offer some excuse.
Voltaire is not to be mentioned, Schiller twaddles through a tissue of sheer inventions and
impossible absurdities, and even Southey, who strives to be faithful to history, thinks he
must invest her with a 'suppressed attachment' in order to render her sufficiently interesting
to be the heroine of a poem. (Inconceivable and insane vanity, that imagines no woman can live
her life through without laying her heart at the feet of one of the 'irresistibles'!) The historic
character of Joan of Arc has been terribly maltreated and misrepresented by every man who has
attempted to portray it, with the single exception of the German historian, Guido Goerres,
whose work, by the way, has been reverently done into English by two sister women.

PAUL. Well, and the final conclusion to all this?

DORCAS. The final conclusion is, that a large portion of even the worthier souls in this world,
is drifting away into a sea of materialism, shrouded in rose-colored mists of poetry and sentiment,
and it behooves every earnest friend of humanity to sound the alarm, and at least strive to
give warning of the danger.

GLORIOUS!

  Alone--and widowed so early,
    Aged only twenty-one--
  Only so few of her years are past,
    And yet her life is quite done!

  Quite concluded her life is--
    Nothing for hopes, or for fears;
  Nothing to think of, or look to see
    But a barren desert of years!

  Slender, lithe little figure--
    Graceful and yielding form,
  Never again to be held in the close
    Clasp of a manly arm!

  Oh the sweet oval face,
    And the wonderful violet eyes!
  No more to be sealed with true kisses,
    And opened to love's paradise!

  And oh the sunny, brown hair,
    Which breaks into ripples and waves
  O'er her sad brow--like the laughter
    Of young children over graves!

  Put it away under widow's weeds--
    Draw it as straight as you can:
  Never again will the dear little head
    Be held to the heart of a man.

  Dazed, she sits in the twilight
    Of the funeral-darkened room,
  Her whole soul gathered to listen--alas!
    For a voice that is stilled in the tomb.

  Dear voice, now silent forever!
    God help her! It seems a dream!
  She hopes, even now she may waken;
    But see yonder cruel sunbeam.

  How it wanders over the carpet--
    It lights up the distant room--
  It falls on his portrait--his portrait!--
    His face shines out in the gloom

  As warmly and loving as ever;--
    But, oh, there hangs under its frame
  The sword he has wielded so bravely--
    The blade that has lettered his name

  On the tablets of Glory--erected
  O'er the bodies of thousands of slain;
  Who have died to preserve the Republic!
  Our loss--but the nation's great gain.

  Wring the small, white hands together--
    Clasp them close over the breast:--
  Prisoned heart, throbbing so wildly,
    Never again to know rest.

  Can you not leap and be joyful,
    Knowing the nation is free!
  Gentle-eyed Peace is but waiting
    Sure of a welcome, to be.

  Ask not for pæans of triumph
    From 'only a woman's' heart:
  Alas! in the triumph of nations
    She hath but an humble part!

  Hers to be patient, and suffer--
    While her soul goes out to the fray
  With the one who is dearer than heaven,
    To see him shot down by the way.

  Anguished, for drops of cold water
    That e'en to the vilest we give!
  Mangled and crushed and insulted!
    God! can I write it, and live!

  Fold the hands o'er the soft bosom
    Baby hands never caressed--
  Hush into patience the sweet lips
    Never to man's to be pressed.

  There on the altar of nations
    She has given the soul out of her life:
  Holocaust greater was never:
    God help the poor, little wife!

THE ISLE OF SPRINGS.

CHAPTER V.

HISTORICAL SKETCH.

Jamaica was discovered by Columbus himself, on the 3d of May, 1494, while prosecuting his second
voyage. On his fourth and last voyage he was shipwrecked on its northern coast, and, through
the cruel jealousy of the governor of Hispaniola, was detained there nearly a year before relief
was sent. In the dearth of historical associations, I have sometimes pleased myself with gazing
at the high summit of Cape Clear Hill, which is far and wide conspicuous along the northern
shore, and reflecting that the eye of the great discoverer may have often rested upon it during
his weary detention, endeavoring thus to raise present insignificance somewhat by linking it
with the one illustrious name in the annals of the island.

Sevilla d'Oro, the first settlement of the Spaniards in Jamaica, was founded in 1509, near
the place of Columbus's shipwreck. It soon became a splendid city. Traces of pavement are still
discoverable two miles distant from the church and abbey around which the town was built. In
a few years, however, it disappeared as suddenly as it had arisen. Even the cause of its destruction
is not certainly known. It is supposed, however, to have been a sudden irruption of the Indians.
These were of the same voluptuous and gentle race which peopled the other Great Antilles, but,
like them, might have been roused to temporary madness by the diabolical cruelties of the Spaniards.
If so, their brief revenge availed them little, for by 1558, the sixty thousand Indians, who
inhabited the island when discovered, had been extirpated, it is said, to the very last one.
Near the seashore in the east of the island are some caves, in which mouldering bones of the
unhappy aborigines are still found, who had taken refuge here, preferring to die of famine
rather than to fall into the merciless hands of the Spaniards.

After the extirpation of the Indians, the labor of African slaves was introduced. Some sugar
was raised, but the greater part of the island was devoted to the raising of cattle and swine.
Besides the few whites and negroes needed for this, and a small number at two or three seaports,
the population was mainly gathered in the town of St. Jago de la Vega. This was built on the
south side, a few miles from the sea, after the destruction of Sevilla d'Oro. At the time of
the English conquest in 1655, during Cromwell's protectorate, the population consisted of twelve
hundred whites and fifteen hundred negro slaves. They were summoned by the English admiral
to take the oath of allegiance to England or to leave the island. But they declared that they
could do neither; that they were born subjects of the King of Spain, and knew no other allegiance;
and, on the other hand, that they were natives of Jamaica, and had neither friends nor kindred
elsewhere. They implored him, therefore, not to exact an impossible oath, nor yet to turn them
adrift in the wide world. But the misfortunes of Spanish Papists were a matter of little concern
to English Puritans. They were expelled the island, but leaving their slaves in the mountain
forests of the central ridge, they planted a seed which for generations bore bitter fruit to
their cruel enemies. These slaves became the nucleus of those formidable Maroon communities
which for generations were a terror to the island. Their masters, having conveyed their families
across to Cuba, returned with a body of Spanish troops, hoping, in their turn, to expel the
invaders. They intrenched themselves in a natural fastness that appeared impregnable, and an
English messenger being sent to demand a surrender, the venerable governor, Don Arnoldo Sasi,
it is said, ordered him to be shown around the fortification, that he might see that it was
impossible to take it, and then dismissed him with a handsome present. But the English soldiers
knew no such thing as an impregnable fortress; they soon stormed the height, and, as the Spaniards
were fleeing along the cliffs, picked them off like so many crows. A few attendants hurried
down the aged governor to the sea, and conveyed him across to Cuba. And thus perished the tranquil
and happy colony of St. Jago de la Vega. The victors took possession of the deserted town,
which has finally become the seat of government. But they changed its Popish appellation of
St. Jago de la Vega to the homely but unimpeachably Protestant name of Spanishtown, which it
still bears in popular use, although officially it has resumed its former designation. There
were two Roman Catholic churches in the town, each of which gave the name of its patron saint
to the street on which it stood. But the Puritans would know them only as Whitechurch street
and Redchurch street--names which, I believe, still remain, curious monuments of Puritan scrupulosity
in that southern land. Spanishtown has increased in population to about five thousand, and
in its palmy days of slaveholding prosperity exhibited doubtless much pomp of vice-regal splendor.
But this has long fled, and its sandy streets are now almost as silent and sombre in the glittering
sunshine as if traversed only by the ghosts of the Spanish colonists who dwelt here in peace
until ruthlessly thrust forth by the English invader.

After the conquest, the island filled up with English, partly by voluntary emigration, and
partly by a double deportation from home, first of refractory Cavaliers during Cromwell's protectorate,
and partly of mutinous Puritans after the return of the Stuarts. These often renewed in the
streets of Spanishtown the brawls of the mother country, and the exclamation, 'My king!' which
the negroes are fond of using, is said to be a genuine relic of the time when it was the watchword
of the outnumbered but courageous Cavaliers. Even after the Restoration, the Puritans were
for a while in the ascendant in the island which the Puritan protector had wrested from the
great foe of Protestantism; but gradually all traces of that hardy sect disappeared from a
land which an enervating climate and the rapidly advancing barbarism of slavery rendered far
fitter for another sort of inhabitants, namely, the buccaneers. The buccaneers, it will be
remembered, were not exactly pirates preying indiscriminately upon all. They were rather English
corsairs, who took advantage of the long enmity between England and Spain to carry on, in time
of peace and war alike, perpetual forrays against the Spanish settlements and commerce of the
West Indies. They were simply the jayhawkers and border ruffians of their day, and, with some
traits of chivalry, differed probably as little from pirates as Quantrell and his fellow scoundrels
differ from robbers. This villanous crew early resorted in great numbers to Jamaica, which
became as good a base of operations against a power with which England was professedly at peace
as Liverpool and Greenock are now against another power with which she is professedly at peace.
Dr. Arnold, in one of his letters, says he imagines the British West Indies have never recovered
from the taint of buccaneer blood. It is hard to say, for the universal corruption of morals
and justice induced by slavery, existing in the overwhelming proportions which it had in the
West Indies, renders it almost impossible to measure how far any subsidiary influence of evil
may have helped to aggravate the mischief.

Jamaica, like the other colonies, soon received a constitution. Like her sisters on the continent,
she opposed a spirited and successful resistance to the early encroachments of the crown. When
our Revolution broke out, her Assembly passed resolutions declaring their entire concurrence
in the principles set forth by the Congress, and gave as the reasons for not joining in our
armed vindication of them, their insular position, and the peculiar nature of their population.
Had geography permitted, Jamaica would doubtless have made one Slave State the more in the
original Union, and would have been one of the fiercest afterward in the secession. We may
well believe that nothing but the knowledge that she would be crushed like an eggshell by the
mighty power of England, hindered her in 1834 from heading her sister islands in a revolt against
the impending abolition of slavery, and thus giving the world twenty-seven years earlier the
spectacle of a great slaveholders' rebellion.

The history of Jamaica, otherwise so monotonous and devoid of interest, even to its own people,
yet includes one awful event, the destruction of Port Royal by the earthquake of 1692. This
city, built by the English soon after the conquest, on the tongue of land which encloses the
present harbor of Kingston, soon became the most splendid city of the English in America. Its
quays and warehouses, Macaulay says, were thought to rival those of Cheapside. This wealth
and splendor were not wholly the fruit of lawful commerce, for Port Royal was the favored resort
of the buccaneers. Their lawless forrays against the Spanish filled it with wealth, and filled
it also with voluptuous wickedness.

Tradition adds, perhaps to give emphasis to its doom, that just before the earthquake, a successful
expedition had filled the city with booty, which loaded the warehouses, and even overflowed
into the dwelling houses and verandas. But the stroke of judgment came, and a few shocks of
an earthquake in a few seconds buried the greater part of the dissolute and splendid city beneath
the waters of its own harbor. The decaying bodies that were thrown afterward on the shore produced
a pestilence which swept off three thousand of those who had survived the earthquake. The sad
remnant went over to the inside shore of the harbor, and built Kingston. A poor village of
some twelve or fifteen hundred souls, adjoining the naval station, is now all that represents
the once wealthy and wicked city, the Sodom of the West, and smitten with a fate like that
of Sodom.

