KEPT IN THE DARK

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

Originally published in serial form May through December, 1882, in Good Words and in book form
in 1882. Trollope died during the last month of serial publication.

CONTENTS

   VOLUME I.

          I. CECILIA HOLT AND HER THREE FRIENDS.
         II. SIR FRANCIS GERALDINE.
        III. THE END OF THAT EPISODE.
         IV. MR. WESTERN.
          V. CECILIA'S SECOND CHANCE.
         VI. WHAT ALL HER FRIENDS SAID ABOUT IT.
        VII. MISS ALTIFIORLA'S ARRIVAL.
       VIII. LADY GRANT.
         IX. MISS ALTIFIORLA'S DEPARTURE.
          X. SIR FRANCIS TRAVELS WITH MISS ALTIFIORLA.
         XI. MR. WESTERN HEARS THE STORY.
        XII. MR. WESTERN'S DECISION.

   VOLUME II.

       XIII. MRS. WESTERN PREPARES TO LEAVE.
        XIV. TO WHAT A PUNISHMENT!
         XV. ONCE MORE AT EXETER.
        XVI. "IT IS ALTOGETHER UNTRUE."
       XVII. MISS ALTIFIORLA RISES IN THE WORLD.
      XVIII. A MAN'S PRIDE.
        XIX. DICK TAKES HIS FINAL LEAVE.
         XX. THE SECRET ESCAPES.
        XXI. LADY GRANT AT DRESDEN.
       XXII. MR. WESTERN YIELDS.
      XXIII. SIR FRANCIS' ESCAPE.
        XIV. CONCLUSION.

VOLUME I.

CHAPTER I.

CECILIA HOLT AND HER THREE FRIENDS.

There came an episode in the life of Cecilia Holt which it is essential should first be told.
When she was twenty-two years old she was living with her mother at Exeter. Mrs. Holt was a
widow with comfortable means,--ample that is for herself and her daughter to supply them with
all required by provincial comfort and provincial fashion. They had a house without the city,
with a garden and a gardener and two boys, and they kept a brougham, which was the joint care
of the gardener and the boy inside and the boy outside. They saw their friends and were seen
by them. Once in the year they left home for a couple of months and went,--wherever the daughter
wished. Sometimes there was a week or two in London; sometimes in Paris or Switzerland. The
mother seemed to be only there to obey the daughter's behests, and Cecilia was the most affectionate
of masters. Nothing could have been less disturbed or more happy than their lives. No doubt
there was present in Cecilia's manner a certain looking down upon her mother,--of which all
the world was aware, unless it was her mother and herself. The mother was not blessed by literary
tastes, whereas Cecilia was great among French and German poets. And Cecilia was æsthetic,
whereas the mother thought more of the delicate providing of the table. Cecilia had two or
three female friends, who were not quite her equals in literature but nearly so. There was
Maude Hippesley, the Dean's daughter, and Miss Altifiorla, the daughter of an Italian father
who had settled in Exeter with her maternal aunt,--in poor circumstances, but with an exalted
opinion as to her own blood. Francesca Altifiorla was older than her friend, and was, perhaps,
the least loved of the three, but the most often seen. And there was Mrs. Green, the Minor
Canon's wife, who had the advantage of a husband, but was nevertheless humble and retiring.
They formed the élite of Miss Holt's society and were called by their Christian names. The
Italian's name was Francesca and the married lady was called Bessy.

Cecilia had no lovers till there came in an evil hour to Exeter one Sir Francis Geraldine.
She had somewhat scoffed at love, or at the necessity of having a lover. She and Miss Altifiorla
had been of one mind on that subject. Maude Hippesley had a lover and could not be supposed
to give her accord. Mrs. Green had had one, but expressed an opinion that it was a trouble
well over. A husband might be a comfort, but a lover was a "bother." "It's such a blessing
to be able to wear my old gloves before him. He doesn't mind it now as he knows he'll have
to pay for the new." But at length there came the lover. Sir Francis Geraldine was a man who
had property in the county but had not lately lived upon it. He was of an old family, of which
he was very proud. He was an old baronet, a circumstance which he seemed to think was very
much in his favour. Good heavens! From what a height did he affect to look down upon the peers
of the last twenty years. His property was small, but so singular were his gifts that he was
able to be proud of that also. It had all been in the possession of his family since the time
of James I. And he was a man who knew everything though only forty, and by no means old in
appearance. But, if you were to believe him, he had all that experience of the world which
nothing but unlimited years could have given him. He knew all the Courts in Europe, and all
the race courses,--and more especially all the Jacks and Toms who had grown into notoriety
in those different worlds of fashion. He came to Exeter to stay with his brother-in-law, the
Dean, and to look after his property for a while. There he fell in love with Cecilia Holt,
and, after a fortnight of prosperous love-making, made her an offer. This the young lady accepted,
averse as she was to lovers, and for a month was the happiest and proudest girl in all Exeter.
The happiness and pride of a girl in her lover is something wonderful to behold. He is surely
the only man, and she the only woman born worthy of such a man. She is to be the depository
of all his secrets, and the recipient of all his thoughts. That other young ladies should accept
her with submission in this period of her ecstasy would be surprising were it not that she
is so truly exalted by her condition as to make her for a short period an object to them of
genuine worship. In this way, for a month or six weeks, did Miss Holt's friends submit to her
and bear with her. They endured to be considered but as the outside personages of an indifferent
outer world, whereas Cecilia herself with her lover were the only two inhabitants of the small
celestial empire in which they lived. Then there gradually came to be a change. And it must
be acknowledged here that the change commenced with Cecilia Holt herself.

The greater the adoration of the girl the deeper the abyss into which she falls,--if she be
doomed to fall at all. A month of imperfection she can bear, even though the imperfections
be very glaring. For a month, or perhaps for six weeks, the desire to subject herself to a
newly-found superior being supports her spirit against all trials. Neglect when it first comes
is not known to be neglect. The first bursts of ill-temper have about them something of the
picturesque,--or at any rate of the grotesque. Even the selfishness is displayed on behalf
of an object so exalted as to be excusable. So it was with Cecilia Holt. The period of absolute,
unmistaken, unreasonable love lasted but for six weeks after her engagement. During those six
weeks all Exeter knew of it. There was no reticence on the part of any one. Sir Francis Geraldine
had fallen in love with Cecilia Holt and a great triumph had been won. Cecilia, in spite of
her general well-known objection to lovers, had triumphed a little. It is not to be supposed
that she had miscarried herself outrageously. He is cold-hearted, almost cruel, who does not
like to see the little triumph of a girl in such circumstances, who will not sympathise with
her, and join with her, if occasion come, in her exaltation. No fault was found with Cecilia
among her friends in Exeter, but it was a fact that she did triumph. How it was that the time
of her worship then came to an end it would be difficult to say. She was perhaps struck by
neglect, or something which appeared to her to be almost scorn. And the man himself, she found,
was ignorant. The ill-temper had lost its picturesqueness, and become worse than grotesque.
And the selfishness seemed to be displayed on an object not so high as to render it justifiable.
Then came a fortnight of vacillating misery, in which she did not dare to tell her discomfort
to either of her friends. Her mother, who, though she could not read Schiller, was as anxious
for her daughter's happiness as any mother could be, saw something of this and at last ventured
to ask a question. "Was not Francis to have been here this morning?"

Cecilia was at that moment thinking of her lover, thinking that he had been untrue to his tryst
now for the third time; and thinking also that she knew him to be untrue not with any valid
excuse, not with the slightest cause for an excuse, but with a pre-determination to show the
girl to whom he was engaged that it did not suit him any longer to be at the trouble of serving
her. "Oh, mamma, how foolish you are! How can I tell what Sir Francis Geraldine may be doing?"

"But I thought he was to have been here."

"Mamma, please understand that I do not carry him about tied to my apron-strings. When it pleases
him to come he will come." Then she went on with her book and was silent for a minute or two.
Then she broke out again. "I am sure there ought to be a rule in life that people when they
are engaged should never see each other again till they meet in the church."

"I don't think that would do at all, my dear."

"Perhaps things were different when you were young. The world becomes less simple every day.
However, mamma, we must put up with Sir Francis whether he come or whether he remain away."

"The world may be less simple," said Mrs. Holt after a pause, "but I don't think it half so
nice. Young men used to think that there was nothing so pleasant as a young lady's company
when,--when,--when they were engaged, you know." Then the conversation ended, and the morning
passed without the coming of Sir Francis.

After that a week passed,--with great forbearance on the part of Cecilia. She thought herself
at least to be forbearing. She thought much of her lover, and had no doubt tried to interest
herself in the usual conversation of her friends. But they, by the end of the week, perceived
that Sir Francis was never first spoken of by herself. To Maude Hippesley it was very difficult
to avoid an expression of her doubts, because Maude was niece to Sir Francis. And Sir Francis
was much talked about at the Deanery. "My uncle was not down here this morning," Maude would
say:--and then she would go on to excuse the defalcation. He had had business requiring his
immediate attention,--probably something as to the marriage settlements. "But of course he
will tell you all that." Cecilia saw through the little attempts. Maude was quite aware that
Sir Francis was becoming weary of his lover's cares, and made the best excuse she could for
them. But Maude Hippesley never had liked her uncle.

"Oh, my dear Maude," said Cecilia, "pray let him do what he pleases with himself in these the
last days of his liberty. When he has got a wife he must attend to her,--more or less. Now
he is as free as air. Pray let him do as he pleases, and for heaven's sake do not bother him!"
Maude who had her own lover, and was perfectly satisfied with him though she had been engaged
to him for nearly twelve months, knew that things were not going well, and was unhappy. But
at the moment she said nothing further.

"Where is this recreant knight?" said Francesca. There was something in the tone of Miss Altifiorla's
voice which grated against Cecilia's ears, and almost made her angry. But she knew that in
her present condition it behoved her to be especially careful. Had she resolved to break with
her betrothed she would have been quite open on the subject to all her friends. She would have
been open to all Exeter. But in her present condition of mind she was resolved,--she thought
she was resolved,--to go on with her marriage.

