But Nan was inclined to be a little vexed and reproachful. She had been left alone, with strangers,
altogether too long. Keith excused himself volubly and convincingly--she had been asleep--she
was much better off not being disturbed--that this was true was proven by results--she was
blooming, positively blooming--as fresh as a rose leaf--of course it was rather an imposition
on the Sherwoods, but the baggage hadn't come up yet, and they were kind people, our sort,
the sort for whom the word obligation did not exist--he, personally, had not intended being
gone so long, but by the rarest of chances he had run across some of the men to whom, he had
introductions, and they had been most kind in making him acquainted-- nothing was more important
to a young lawyer than to "establish connections"--it did not do to overlook a chance.

He urged all this, and more, with all his usual, vital, enthusiastic force. In spite of herself,
she was overborne to a reproachful forgiveness.

In the meantime Mrs. Sherwood had gone over to where Ben Sansome was still standing by the
door. Sansome did not like Mrs. Sherwood. He considered that she had no social tact at all.
This was mainly--though he did not analyze it--because she was quite apt to speak the direct
and literal truth to him; because she had a disquieting self-confidence and competence in place
of appropriate, graceful, feminine dependence; but especially because she had never and would
never play up to his game.

"Are you making a formal afternoon call, Ben?" she asked in her cool, mocking voice. "Aren't
you really a little de trop?"

"I did not come of my own volition at this time, I assure you," he replied a trifle stiffly.
The thought that he was suspected of a blunder in social custom stung him; as, in a rather
lazily amused way, she knew it would.

At this reply she glanced keenly toward Keith, then nodded; slowly.

"I see," she conceded.

Sansome moved to go. But at this Keith's attention was attracted. He sprang forward, seized
Sansome's arm, insisted on introducing him to Nan, was over-effusive, over-cordial, buoyant.
Both Sansome and Mrs. Sherwood were experienced enough to yield entirely to his mood. They
understood perfectly that at the least opposition Keith was in just the condition to reveal
himself, perhaps, to break over the frail barrier that separates exhilaration from loss of
self-control. They saw also that Nan had no suspicion of the state of affairs. Indeed, following
the reaction from her long voyage and her illness, she responded and played up to Keith's high
spirits. Neither wanted her to grasp the situation if it could be avoided: Mrs. Sherwood from
genuine good feeling, Sansome because of the social awkwardness and bad taste. Besides, he
felt that his presence at such a scene would be a very bad beginning for himself.

"No, you're not going," Keith was insisting; "you don't realize what a celebration this is!
Here we've pulled up all our roots, haven't we, Nan? and come thousands of miles to a new country,
a wonderful country; and the very first day of our landing you want us to act as though nothing
had happened!"

Nan nodded a vigorous assent to his implied reference to her.

"And what we're going to do is to celebrate," insisted Keith. "You're all going to dine with
us. No, I insist! You're the only friends we have out here, and you aren't going to desert
us the very first day we need you."

"I wish you would!" cried Nan, sitting forward eagerly.

They tried to expostulate, to get out of it, but without avail. It seemed easier to promise.
Keith rushed out to look for his baggage, to arrange for rooms, leaving the three together
to await his return.

VI

Both Mrs. Sherwood and Sansome applied themselves to relieving whatever embarrassment Nan might
feel over this unusual situation. Sansome was possessed of great charm and social experience.
He could play the game of light conversation to perfection. By way of bridging the pause in
events, he set himself to describing the society in which the Keiths would shortly find themselves
launched. His remarks were practically a monologue, interspersed by irrepressible gurgles of
laughter from Nan. Mrs. Sherwood sat quietly by. She did not laugh, but it was evident she
was amused. In this congenial atmosphere Sansome outdid himself.

"They are all afraid of each other," he told her, "because they don't know anything about each
other. Each ex-washerwoman thinks the other ex- washerwoman must have been at least a duchess
at home. It's terribly funny. If they can get hold of six porcelain statuettes, a half-dozen
antimacassars, some gilt chairs, and a glass bell of wax flowers, they imagine they're elegantly
furnished. And their functions! I give you my word, I'd as soon attend a reasonably pleasant
funeral! Some of them try to entertain by playing intellectual games--you know, rhyming or
spelling games--seriously!" He went on to describe some of the women, mentioning no names,
however. "You'll recognize them when you meet them," he assured her. "There's one we'll call
the Social Agitator--she isn't happy unless she is running things. I believe she spent two
weeks once in London--or else she buys her boots there--anyway, when discussions get lively
she squelches them by saying, 'Of course, my dear, that may be absolutely au fait in New York--but
in London--' It corks them up every time. And 'pon honour, three quarters of the time she's
quite wrong! Then there's the Lady Thug, Square jaw, square shoulder, sort of bulging out at
the top--you know--in decollete one cannot help thinking 'one more struggle and she'll be free!'"

"Oh, fie, Mr. Sansome," laughed Nan, half shocked.

Sansome rattled on. The ultimate effect was to convey an impression of San Francisco society--such
as existed at all--as stodgy, stupid, pretentious, unattractive. Nan was immensely amused,
but inclined to take it all with a grain of salt.

"Mrs. Sherwood doesn't bear you out," she told him, "and she's the only one I've seen yet.
I think we're going to have a pretty good time."

But at this point Keith returned. He was quite sobered from his temporary exhilaration, but
still most cordial and enthusiastic over his little party, Sansome noted with quiet amusement
that his light curly hair was damp. Evidently he had taken his own prescription as to the pump.

"Well," he announced, "I have a room--such as it is. Can't say much for it. The baggage is
all here; nothing missing for a wonder. I've spoken to the manager about dinner for five."
He turned to Nan with brightening interest. "Guess what I saw on the bill of fare! Grizzly
bear steak! Think of that! I ordered some."

Sansome groaned comically.

"What's the matter?" inquired Keith.

"Did you ever try it before? Tough, stringy, unfit for human consumption."

But Keith was fascinated by the name of the thing.

"There's plenty else," he urged defensively, "and I always try everything once."

It was agreed that they should all meet again after an hour. Sansome renewed his promises to
be on hand.

The room Keith had engaged was on the second story, and quite a different sort of affair from
that of the Sherwoods'. Indeed it was little more than a pine box, containing only the bare
necessities. One window looked out on an unkempt backyard, now mercifully hidden by darkness.

"This is pretty tough," said Keith, "but it is the very best I could do. And the price is horrible.
We'll have to hunt up a living place about the first thing we do."

"Oh, it's all right," said Nan indifferently. The lassitude of seasickness had left her, and
the excitement of new surroundings was beginning. She felt gently stirred by the give and take
of the light conversation in the Sherwoods' room; and, although she did not quite realize it,
she was responding to the stimulation of having made a good impression. Her subconscious self
was perfectly aware that in the silken negligee, under the pink-shaded lamp, her clear soft
skin, the pure lines of her radiant childlike beauty, the shadows of her tumbled hair, had
been very appealing and effective. She moved about a trifle restlessly, looking at things without
seeing them. "I'm glad to see the brown trunk. Open it, will you, dear? Heavens, what a mirror!"
She surveyed herself in the flawed glass, moving from side to side, fascinated at the strange
distortions.

"I call it positive extortion, charging what they do for a room like this," grumbled Keith,
busy at the trunk. "The Sherwoods must pay a mint of money for theirs. I wonder what he does!"

Her attention attracted by this subject, she arrested her posing before the mirror.

"They certainly are quick to take the stranger in," she commented lightly.

Something in her tone arrested Keith's attention, and he stopped fussing at his keys. Nan had
meant little by the remark. It had expressed the vague instinctive recoil of the woman brought
up in rather conventional circumstances and in a conservative community from too sudden intimacy,
nothing more. She did not herself understand this.

"Don't you like the Sherwoods?" he instantly demanded, with the masculine insistence on dissecting
every butterfly.

"Why, she's charming!" said Nan, opening her eyes in surprise. "Of course, I like her immensely!"

"I should think so," grumbled Keith. "They certainly have been mighty good to us."

But Nan had dropped her negligee about her feet, and was convulsed at the figure made of her
slim young body by the distorted mirror.

"Come here, Milt," she gasped.

She clung to him, gurgling with laughter, pointing one shaking finger at the monstrosity in
the glass.

"Look--look what you married!"

They dressed gayly. His optimism and enthusiasm boiled over again. It was a shame, his leaving
her all that afternoon, he reiterated; but she had no idea what giant strides he had made.
He told her of the city, and he enumerated some of the acquaintances he had made--Calhoun Bennett,
Bert Taylor, Major Marmaduke Miles, Michael Rowlee, Judge Caldwell, and others. They had been
most cordial to him, most kind; they had taken him in without delay.

"It's the spirit of the West, Nan," he cried, "hospitable, unsuspicious, free, eager to welcome!
Oh, this is going to be the place for me; opportunity waits at every corner. They are not tied
down by conventions, by the way somebody else has done things--"

He went on rapidly to detail to her some of the things he had been told-- the contemplated
public improvements, the levelling of the sand hills, the building of a city out of nothing.

"Why, Nan, do you realize that only four years ago this very Plaza had only six small buildings
around it, that there were only three two-story structures in town, that the population was
only about five hundred--there are thirty-five thousand now, that--" he rattled on, detailing
his recently acquired statistics. Oh, potent influence of the Western spirit--already, eight
hours after his landing on California's shores, Milton Keith was a "booster."

With an expansion of relief that only a woman could fully appreciate, Nan unpacked and put
on a frock that had nothing whatever to do with the sea voyage, and which she had not for some
time seen. In ordinary accustomed circumstances she would never have thought of donning so
elaborate a toilette for a hotel dining-room, but she was yielding to reaction. In her way
she was "celebrating," just as was Keith. Her hair she did low after the fashion of the time,
and bound it to her brow by a bandeau of pearls. The gown itself was pale green and filmy.
It lent her a flowerlike semblance that was very fresh and lovely.

"By Jove, Nan, you certainly have recovered from the sea!" cried Keith, and insisted on kissing
her.

"Look how you've mussed me all up!" chided Nan, but without irritation.

They found the other three waiting for them, and without delay entered the dining-room. This,
as indeed all the lower story, was in marked contrast of luxury with the bare pine bedrooms
upstairs. Long red velvet curtains, held back by tasselled silken cords, draped the long windows;
fluted columns at regular intervals upheld the ceiling; the floor was polished and slippery;
the tables shone with white and silver. An obese and tremendous darkey in swallowtail waved
a white-gloved hand at them, turned ponderously, and preceded them down the aisle with the
pomp of a drum major. His dignity was colossal, awe inspiring, remote. Their progress became
a procession, a triumphal procession, such as few of Caesar's generals had ever known. Arrived
at the predestined table, he stood one side while menials drew out the chairs. Then he marched
tremendously back to the main door, his chin high, his expression haughty, his backbone rigid.
This head waiter was the feature of the Bella Union Hotel, just as the glass columns were the
feature of the Empire, or the clockwork mechanism of the El Dorado.

The dinner itself went well. Everybody seemed to be friendly and at ease, but by one of those
strange and sudden social transitions it was rather subdued. This was for various reasons.
Nan Keith, after her brief reaction, found herself again suffering from the lassitude and fatigue
of a long voyage; she needed a night's rest and knew it. Keith himself was a trifle sleepy
as an after affect to the earlier drinking. Sherwood was naturally reserved and coolly observing;
Mrs. Sherwood was apparently somehow on guard; and Sansome, as always, took his tone from those
about him. The wild spirits of the hour before had taken their flight. It was, however, a pleasant
dinner--without constraint, as among old friends. After the meal they went to the public parlour,
a splendid but rather dismal place. Sherwood almost immediately excused himself. After a short
and somewhat awkward interval, Nan decided she would go to bed for her needed rest.

"You won't think me rude, I know." said she.

Keith, whose buoyant temper had been sadly divided between a genuine wish to do the proper
and dutiful thing by his wife and a great desire to see more of this fascinating city, rose
with so evident an alacrity under restraint that Mrs. Sherwood scarcely, concealed a smile.
She said her adieux at the same time, and left the room, troubling herself only to the extent
of that ancient platitude about "letters to write."

VII

"I think we'll find most of the proper crowd down at the Empire," observed Sansome as the two
picked their way across the Plaza. "That is one of the few old-fashioned, respectable gambling
places left to us. The town is not what it used to be in a sporting way. It was certainly wide
open in the good old days!"

The streets at night were ill lighted, except where a blaze of illumination poured from the
bigger saloons. The interims were dark, and the side streets and alleys stygian. "None too
safe, either," Sansome understated the case. Many people were abroad, but Keith noticed that
there seemed to be no idlers; every one appeared to be going somewhere in particular. After
a short stroll they entered the Empire, which, Sansome explained, was the most stylish and
frequented gambling place in town, a sort of evening club for the well-to-do and powerful.
Keith looked over a very large room or hall, at the lower end of which an alcove made a sort
of raised stage with footlights. Here sat a dozen "nigger minstrels" with banjos strumming,
and bawling away at top pressure. An elaborate rosewood bar ran down the whole length at one
side--an impressive polished bar, perhaps sixty feet long, with a white-clad, immaculate barkeeper
for every ten feet of it. Big mirrors of French plate reflected the whole room, and on the
shelf in front of them glittered crystal glasses of all shapes and sizes, arranged in pyramids
and cubes. The whole of the main floor was carpeted heavily. Down the centre were stationed
two rows of gambling tables, where various games could be played--faro, keeno, roulette, stud
poker, dice. Beyond these gambling tables, on the other side of the room from the bar, were
small tables, easy chairs of ample proportions, lounges, and a fireplace. Everything was most
ornate. The ceilings and walls were ivory white and much gilt. Heavy chandeliers, with the
usual glass prisms and globes, revolved slowly or swayed from side to side. Huge oil paintings
with shaded top and foot-lights occupied all vacant spaces in the walls. They were "valued"
at from ten to thirty thousand dollars apiece, and that fact was advertised. "Leda and the
Swan," "The Birth of Venus," "The Rape of the Sabines," "Cupid and Psyche" were some of the
classic themes treated as having taken place in a warm climate. "Susannah and the Elders" and
"Salome Dancing" gave the Biblical flavour. The "Bath of the Harem" finished the collection.
No canvas was of less size than seven by ten feet.

The floor was filled with people. A haze of blue smoke hung in the air. There was no loud noise
except from the minstrel stage at the end. A low hum of talk, occasionally accented, buzzed
continuously. Many of the people wandering about, leaning against the bar, or integers of the
compact groups around the gambling tables, were dressed in the height of fashion; but, on the
other hand, certainly half were in the roughest sort of clothes--floppy old slouch hats, worn
flannel shirts, top boots to which dried mud was clinging. These men were as well treated as
the others.

Fascinated, Keith would, have liked to linger, but Sansome threaded his way toward the farther
corner. As Keith passed near one of the close groups around a gambling table, it parted momentarily,
and he looked into the eyes of the man in charge, cold, passionless, aloof, eyes neither friendly
nor unfriendly. And he saw the pale skin; the weary, bored, immobile features; the meticulous
neat dress; the long, deft fingers; and caught the withdrawn, deadly, exotic personality of
the professional gambler on duty.

The whole place was unlike anything he had ever seen before. Whether it was primarily a bar,
a gambling resort, or a sort of a public club with trimmings, he could not have determined.
Many of those present, perhaps a majority, were neither gambling, nor drinking; they seemed
not to be adding to the profits of the place in any way, but either wandered about or sat in
the easy chairs, smoking, reading papers, or attending to the occasional outbreaks of the minstrels.
It was most interesting.

They joined a group in the far corner. A white-clad negro instantly brought them chairs, and
hovered discreetly near. Among those sitting about Keith recognized several he had met in the
afternoon; and to several more he was introduced. Of these the one who most instantly impressed
him was called Morrell. This was evidently a young Englishman, a being of a type raised quite
abundantly in England, but more rarely seen in native Americans--the lean-faced, rather flat-cheeked,
high-cheek-boned, aquiline-nosed, florid- complexioned, silent, clean-built sort that would
seem to represent the high-bred, finely drawn product of a long social evolution. These traits
when seen in the person of a native-born American generally do represent this fineness; but
the English, having been longer at the production of their race, can often produce the outward
semblance without necessarily the inner reality. Many of us even now do not quite realize that
fact; certainly in 1852 most of us did not. Morrell was dressed in riding breeches, carried
a short bamboo crop, smiled engagingly to exhibit even, strong, white teeth, and had little to say.

"A beverage seems called for," remarked Judge Caldwell, a gross, explosive, tobacco-chewing
man, with a merry, reckless eye. The order given, the conversation swung back to the topic
that had occupied it before Keith and Sansome had arrived.

It seemed that an individual there present, Markle by name--a tall, histrionic, dark man with
a tossing mane--conceived himself to have been insulted by some one whose name Keith did not
catch, and had that very afternoon issued warning that he would "shoot on sight." Some of the
older men were advising him to go slow.

"But, gentlemen," cried Markle heatedly, "none of you would stand such conduct from anybody!
What are we coming to? I'll get that----as sure as God made little apples."

"That's all right; I don't blame yo'," argued Calhoun. Bennett. "Do not misunderstand me, suh.
I agree with yo', lock, stock, an' barrel. My point is that yo' must be circumspect. Challenge
him, that's the way."

"He isn't worth my challenge, sir, nor the challenge of any decent man. You know that, sir,"

"Well, street shootings have got to be a little, a little----"

He fell silent, and Keith, looked up in surprise to see why. A man was slowly passing the table.
He was a thick, tall, strong man, moving with a freedom that bespoke smoothly working muscles.
His complexion was florid; and this, in conjunction with a sweeping blue-black moustache, gave
him exactly the appearance of a gambler or bartender. Only as he passed the table and responded
gravely to the formal salutes, Keith caught a flash of his eye. It was gray, hard as steel,
forceful, but so far from being cold it seemed to glow and change with an inner fire, The bartender
impression was swept into limbo forever.

"That's one good reason why," said Calhoun Bennett, when this man had gone on.

But Markle overflowed with a torrent of vituperative profanity. His face was congested and
purple with the violence of his emotions. Keith stared in astonishment at the depth of hatred
stirred. He turned for explanation to the man next him, Judge Girvin, a gentleman of the old
school, weighty, authoritative, a little pompous.

"That is Coleman," Judge Girvin told him. "W.T. Coleman, the leader of the vigilance movement
of last year."

"That's why," repeated Calhoun Bennett, with quiet vindictiveness, "lawlessness, disrespect
foh law and order, mob rule. Since this strangler business, no man can predict what the lawless
element may do!"

This speech was the signal for an outburst against the Vigilance Committee, so unanimous and
hearty that Keith was rather taken aback. He voiced his bewilderment.

"Why, gentlemen, I am, of course, only in the most distant touch with these events; but the
impression East is certainly very general that the Vigilantes did rather a good piece of work
in clearing the city of crime."

They turned on him with a savagery that took his breath. Keith, laughing, held up both hands.

"Don't shoot, don't shoot! I'll come down!" he cried. "I told you I didn't know anything about it!"

They checked themselves, suddenly ashamed of their heat. Calhoun Bennett voiced their feeling
of apology.

"Yo' must accept our excuses, Mr, Keith, but this is a mattah on which we feel strongly. Our
indignation was naturally not directed against yo', suh."

But Judge Girvin, ponderous, formal, dignified, was making a pronouncement.

"Undoubtedly, young sir," he rolled forth at Keith, "undoubtedly a great many scoundrels were
cleared from the city at that time. That no one would have the temerity to deny. But you, sir,
as a lawyer, realize with us that even pure and equitable justice without due process of law
is against the interests of society as a coherent whole. Infringement of law, even for a good
purpose, invariably brings about ultimate contempt, for all law. In the absence of regularly
constituted tribunals, as in a primitive society-- such as that prior to the Constitutional
Convention of September, 1849--it may become necessary that informal plebiscites be countenanced.
But in the presence of regularly constituted and appointed tribunals, extra-legal functions
are not to be undertaken by the chance comer. If defects occur in the administration of the
law, the remedy is in the hand of the public. The voter----" he went on at length, elaborating
the legal view. Everybody listened with respect and approval until he had finished. But then
up spoke Judge Caldwell, the round, shining, perspiring, untidy, jovial, Silenus- like jurist
with the blunt fingers.

"We all agree with you theoretically, Judge," said he. "What these other fellows object to,
I imagine, is that the law has such a hell of a hang fire to it."

Judge Girvin's eyes flashed, and he tossed back his white mane. "The due forms of the law are
our heritage from the ages!" he thundered back. "The so-called delays and technicalities are
the checks devised by human experience against the rash judgments and rasher actions by the
volatile element of society! They are the safeguards, the bulwarks of society! It is better
that a hundred guilty men escape than that one innocent man should suffer!"

The old judge was magnificent, his eyes alight, his nostrils expanded, his head reared back
defiantly, all the great power of his magnetism and his authority brought to bear. Keith was
thrilled. He considered that the discussion had been lifted to a high moral plane.

By rights Judge Caldwell should have been crushed, but he seemed undisturbed,

"Well," he remarked comfortably, "on that low average we must have quite a few innocent men
among us after all."

"What do you mean, sir?" demanded Judge Girvin, halted in mid career and not catching the allusion.

"Surely, Judge, you don't mean to imply that you endorse Coleman and his gang?" put in Calhoun
Bennett courteously but incredulously.

"Endorse them? Certainly not!" disclaimed Caldwell. "I need my job," he added with a chuckle.

Bennett tossed back his hair, and a faint disgust appeared in his dark eyes, but he said nothing
more. Caldwell lit a cigar with pudgy fingers.

"My advice to you," he said to Markle, "is that if you think you're going to have to kill this
man in self-defence"--he rolled an unabashed and comical eye at the company--"you be sure to
see our old friend, Sheriff Webb, gets you to jail promptly." He heaved to his feet, "Might
even send him advance word," he suggested, and waddled away toward the bar.

A dead silence succeeded his departure. None of the younger men ventured a word. Finally Judge
Girvin, with a belated idea of upholding the honour of the bench, turned to Keith.

"Judge Caldwell's humour is a little trying at times, but he is essentially sound."

The young Englishman, Morrell, uttered a high cackle.

"Quite right," he observed; "he'll fix it all right for you, Markle."

At the bad taste of what they thought an example of English stupidity every one sat aghast.
Keith managed to cover the situation by ordering another round of drinks. Morrell seemed quite
pleased with himself.

"Got a rise out of the old Johnny, what?" he remarked to Keith aside.

Judge Caldwell returned. The conversation became general. Vast projects were discussed with
the light touch--public works, the purchase of a theatre for the town hall, the sale by auction
of city or state lands, the extension of wharves, the granting of franchises, and many other
affairs, involving, apparently, millions of money. All these things were spoken of as from
the inside. Keith, sipping his drinks quietly, sat apart and listened. He felt himself in the
current of big affairs. Occasionally, men sauntered by, paused a moment. Keith noticed that
they greeted his companions with respect and deference. He experienced a feeling of being at
the centre of things. The evening drifted by pleasantly.

Along toward midnight, John Sherwood, without a hat, stopped long enough to exchange a few
joking remarks, then sauntered on.

"I know him," Keith told Calhoun Bennett. "That's John Sherwood. He's at our hotel. What does
he do?"

"Oh, don't you know who he is?" replied Bennett. "He's the owner of this place."

"A gambler?" cried Keith, a trifle dashed.

"Biggest in town. But square."

Keith for a moment was a little nonplussed. The sudden intimacy rose up to confront him. They
were kind people, and Mrs. Sherwood was apparently everything she should be--but a public gambler!
Of course he had no prejudices--but Nan--

VIII

Keith returned to the hotel very late, and somewhat exalted. He was bubbling over with good
stories, interesting information, and ideas; so he awakened Nan, and sat on the edge of the
bed, and proceeded enthusiastically to tell her all about it. She was very sleepy. Also an
exasperated inhabitant of the next room pounded on the thin partition. Reluctantly Keith desisted.
It took him some time to get to sleep, as the excitement was seething in his veins.

He came to consciousness after a restless night. The sun was streaming in at the window. He
felt dull and heavy, with a slight headache and a weariness in all his muscles. Worst of all,
Nan, in a ravishing pink fluffy affair, was bending over him, her eyes dancing with amusement
and mischief.

"And how is my little madcap this morning?" she inquired with mock solicitude. This stung Keith
to some show of energy, and he got up.

The sun was really very bright. A dash of cold water made him feel better. Enthusiasm began
to flow back like a tide. The importance of the evening before reasserted its claims on his
imagination. As he dressed he told Nan all about it. In the midst of a glowing eulogy of their
prospects, he checked himself with a chuckle.

"Guess what the Sherwoods are," said he.

Nan, who had been half listening up to this time, gave him her whole attention.

"A gambler! A common gambler!" she repeated after him, a little dismayed.

"I felt the same way for a minute or so," he answered her tone cheerfully. "But after all I
remembered--you must remember--that society here is very mixed. And anyway, Sherwood is no
'common gambler'; I should say he was a most uncommon gambler!" He chuckled at his little joke.
"All sorts of people are received here. We've got to get used to that. And certainly no one
could hope anywhere to find nicer--more presentable--people."

She nodded, but with a reservation.

"Surely nowhere would you find kinder people," went on Keith. "See how they took us in!"

"Look out they don't take you in, Milton," she interjected suddenly.

Keith, brought up short, sobered at this.

"That is unjust, Nan," he said gravely.

She said nothing, but showed no signs of having been convinced. After her first need had passed,
Nan Keith's natural reserve had asserted itself. This was the result of heredity and training,
as part of herself, something she could not help. Its tendency was always to draw back from
too great or too sudden intimacies. There was nothing snobbish in this; it was a sort of instinct,
a natural reaction. She liked Mrs. Sherwood, admired her slow, complete poise, approved her
air of breeding and the things by which she had surrounded herself. The older woman's kindness
had struck in her a deep chord of appreciation. But somehow circumstances had hurried her too
much. Her defensive antagonism, not to Mrs. Sherwood as a person, but to sudden intimacy as
such, had been aroused. It had had, in her own mind, no excuse. She knew she ought to be grateful
and cordial; she felt that she was not quite ready. The fact that the Sherwoods had proved
to be "common gamblers" gave just the little excuse her conscience needed to draw back a trifle.
This, it should be added, was also quite instinctive, not at all a formulated thought.

She said nothing for some time; then remarked mysteriously:

"Perhaps that's why they go to meet boats."

Keith, who was miles beyond the Sherwoods by now, looked bewildered.

Keith had letters of business introduction to Palmer, Cook & Co., a banking firm powerful and
respected at the time, but destined to become involved in scandal. The most pressing need,
both he and Nan had determined, was a house of their own; the hotel was at once uncomfortable
and expensive. Accordingly a callow, chipper, self-confident, blond little clerk was assigned
to show them about. He had arrived from the East only six months ago; but this was six months
earlier than the Keiths, so he put on all the airs of an old-timer. In a two-seated calash,
furnished by the bankers, they drove to the westerly part of the town. The plank streets soon
ran out into sand or rutty earth roads. These bored their way relentlessly between sand hills
in the process of removal. Steam paddies coughed and clanked in all directions. Many houses
had, by these operations, been left perched high and dry far above the grade of the new streets.
Often the sand was crumbling away from beneath their outer corners. All sorts of nondescript
ramshackle and temporary stairs had been improvised to get their inhabitants in or out. The
latter seemed to be clinging to their tenements as long as possible.

"They often cave in," explained the clerk, "and the whole kit and kaboodle comes sailing down
into the street. Sometimes it happens at night," he added darkly.

"But isn't anybody hurt?" cried Nan.

"Lots of 'em," replied the clerk cheerfully "Git dap!"

They now executed a flank attack on the "fashionable" quarter of the town.

"They're grading the street down below," the clerk justified his roundabout course.

Here were a number of isolated, scattered wooden houses, of some size and of much scroll and
jigsaw work. Some of them had little ornamental iron fencelets running along their ridgepoles,
or lightning rods on the chimneys or at the corners, although thunderstorms were practically
unknown. The clerk at once began to talk of these as "mansions." He drew up before one of them,
hitched the horse, and invited his clients to descend. Nan looked at the exterior a trifle
doubtfully. It was a high-peaked, slender house, drawn together as though it felt cold; with
carved wooden panels over each window, miniature balconies with elaborate spindly columns beneath,
and a haughty, high, narrow porch partially clothing a varnished front door flanked with narrow
strips of coloured glass.

The clerk produced a key. The interior also was high and narrow. Much glistening varnish characterized
the front hall. They inspected one after another the various rooms. The house was partly furnished.
In the showrooms hung heavy red curtains held back by cords with gilt tassels. Each fireplace
was framed by a mantel of white marble. But the glory was the drawing-room. This had been frescoed
in pale blue, and all about the wall and even across part of the ceiling had been draped festoon
after festoon of fishnet. Only this was not real fishnet, as a closer inspection showed. It
had been cunningly painted! In the dim light, and to a person with an optimistic imagination,
the illusion was almost perfect. Nan choked suddenly at the sight of this; then her eyes widened
to a baby stare, and she become preternaturally solemn.

They looked it all over from top to bottom; the clerk fairly tiptoeing about with the bent-backed
air of one who handles a precious jade vase. From the front windows he showed them a really
magnificent view, with the blue waters of the bay shining, and the Contra Costa shore shimmering
in the haze.

"In the residence next door to the west dwell most desirable neighbours," he urged, "the Morrells.
They are English, or at least he is."

"I met him last night," said Keith to Nan; "he looked like a good sort."

"Who is in the big house over there?" asked Nan, indicating a very elaborate structure diagonally
opposite.

"That--oh, that--well, that is in rather a state of transition, as it were," stammered the
little clerk, and at once rattled on about something else. This magnificent mansion, he explained,
was the only one Palmer, Cook & Co. had on their lists for the moment.

Therefore he drove them back to the Bella Union. Keith departed with him to look up a suitable
office downtown,

Nan bowed solemnly to his solemn salutation in farewell, and turned as quickly as she could
to the interior of the hotel. Sherwood sat in his accustomed place, his big steel spectacles
on his nose, his paper spread out before him. He arose and bowed. She nodded, but did not pause.
Once inside the hall, she picked up her skirts and fairly flew up the stairs to her room. Slamming
the door shut, she locked it, then sank on the edge of the bed and laughed--laughed until she
wiped the tears from her cheeks, rocking back and forth and hugging herself in an ecstasy.
Every few moments she would pull up; then some unconsidered enormity would strike her afresh
and she would go off into another paroxysm. After a while, much relieved, she wiped her eyes
and arose.

"This place will be the death of me yet," she told her distorted image in the mirror.

She rummaged in one of her trunks, produced writing materials, and started a letter to an Eastern
friend. This occupied her fully for two hours. At that period it was customary to "indite epistles"
with a "literary flavour," a practice that immensely tickled those who did the inditing. Nan
became wholly interested and quite pleased with herself. Her first impressions, she found when
she came to write them down, were stimulating and interesting. She was full of enthusiasm;
but had she been capable of a real analysis she would have found it quite different from Keith's
enthusiasm. She looked on this strange, uncouth, vital city from the outside, from the superior
standpoint. She appreciated it as she would have appreciated the "quaintness" of the villagers
in some foreign town.

About noon Keith returned.

"I've looked into every possibility," he told her. "Honest, Nan, I don't see exactly what we
are to do unless we build for ourselves. That Boyle house is the only house in town for rent--that
is of any size and in a respectable quarter. You see they are too new out here to have built
houses for rent yet; and if you find any vacant at all, it is sheer good fortune. Of course
to stay in this little box is impossible, and--"

She had been contemplating him, her eyes dancing with amusement.

"You've taken it!" she accused him.

"Well--I--yes," he admitted, a little red.

She laughed.

"I knew it," she said. "When can we move in? I want to get started."

IX

Keith's first plunge into the teeming life of the place had to suffice him for all the rest
of that week. There seemed so many pressing things to do at home. The Boyle house was only
partly furnished. Each morning he and Nan went downtown and prospected for things needed. This
was Nan's first experience of the sort; and she confessed to a ludicrous surprise over the
fact that pots, pans, brooms, kitchen utensils, and such homely matters had to be thought of
and bought.

"I had a sort of notion they grew on the premises," she said.

Mrs. Sherwood gave them much valuable advice, particularly as to auctions. In the Keiths limited
experience auctions generally had meant cheap or second-hand articles, but out here the reverse
was the case. A madness possessed otherwise conservative Eastern merchants--especially of the
staid city of Boston--to send out on speculation immense cargoes of all sorts of goods. These
were the despair of consignees. Heavy freights, high interest charges, tremendous warehouse
rates, speedily ate up whatever chance of profits a fresh consignment might have. The only
solution was to sell out as promptly as possible; and the quickest method was the auction.
Therefore, auctions were everywhere in progress, and the professional auctioneers were a large,
influential, and skilful class of people. Their advertisements made the bulk of the newspapers.
They dressed well, carried an air of consequence, furnished refreshments, brass bands, or other
entertainments to their patrons. The era of fabulous prices was at an end, but the era of wild
speculation as to what the public was going to want was in full tide. Keith and Nan found these
auctions great fun, and piece by piece they accumulated the items of their house furnishing.
It was slow work, but amusing. At times Mrs. Sherwood accompanied them, but not often. Her
advice was always good.

As to Mrs. Sherwood, Nan Keith found her attitude very vague. There was no doubt that she liked
her personally, admired her slow, purposeful, half- indolent movements, the poise of her small,
patrician head, the unconscious, easy grace of her body, the direct commonsense quality of
her mind. One met her face to face; there were no frills and furbelows of the spirit. Also,
Nan was grateful for the other woman's first kindness and real sympathy, and she wanted to
"play the game." But, on the other hand, all her social training and her instinct of formalism
tended to hold her aloof. She blamed herself intellectually for this feeling; but since it
was a feeling, and had nothing to do with intellect, it persisted.

In the auction rooms, also, she seemed to meet--be formally introduced to-- a bewildering number
of people, most of whom she could not place at all. There seemed to be no reason for meeting
them; certainly she would not have met them in the East. Nevertheless, they all shook her by
the hand, and bowed to her whenever subsequently they passed her on the street. Keith told
her this was all usual and proper in this new and mixed social order; and she was perfectly
willing to make the effort. She was really charming to everybody. The consciousness that she
was successfully adapting herself to their primitive provincial scope, and her very gracious
condescension to all types, filled her with respect for her democracy and breadth of mind.

The afternoon they spent at the house receiving boxes and packages. Keith worked busily, happily,
feverishly, in his shirt sleeves. He attacked the job on the principle of a whirlwind campaign,
hammering, ripping, throwing papers down, deciding instantly where this or that chair or table
was to stand, tearing on to the next, enjoying himself dustily and hugely.

Nan was more leisurely. She found time to gossip with the drayman who brought up the goods,
actually came to a liking and a warm friendly feeling for him as a person. This was a new experience
for Nan, and she explored it curiously.

John McGlynn was a teamster, but likewise a thoroughly independent and capable citizen. He
was of the lank, hewn, lean-faced, hawk-nosed type, deliberate in movement and speech, with
a twinkling, contemplative, appraising eye, and an unhurried drawl. He told Nan he had come
out in '49.

"No, ma'am," he disclaimed vigorously, "I didn't go to the mines. I am a teamster, and I always
did teaming." He did not add, as he might have done, that in those days of the individual he
had been an important influence.

His great pride was his team and wagon, and that pride was justified. The wagon was a heavy
flat affair, gayly decorated, and on the sides of the box were paintings of landscapes. The
horses were great, magnificent creatures, with arching thick necks, long wavy manes and forelocks,
soft, intelligent eyes, and with great hoofs and hairy fetlocks. They carried themselves in
conscious pride, Their harness was heavy with silver and with many white and coloured rings.
In colour they were dapple gray.

"That team," said John McGlynn, "is a perfect match. Took me two years to get them together.
Wuth a mint of money. That Kate, there, is a regular character. You'd be surprised how cute
she is. I often wonder who Kate is. She must be some very famous woman."

John McGlynn was a very wonderful and very accommodating person, Nan thought. He would help
carry things in, and was willing to unpack or to carry out the mess Keith's mad career left
behind, it. Also he cast an eye on the garden possibilities, and issued friendly, expert advice
to which Nan listened, breathless. They held long intimate consultations as to the treatment
of the soil.

"A few posies does sort of brighten things up; they're wuth while," quoth John.

Without previous consultation, he appeared one day accompanied by a rotund, bland, gorgeous
Chinaman, perched beside him on his elevated seat.

"This is Wing Woh, a friend of mine," he announced. "You got to have a Chink, of course. You
can't run that sized house without help. Wing knows all the Chinks in town, and bosses about
half of them."

Wing Woh descended and without a word walked into the house. He was a very ornate person, dressed
in a skull cap with a red coral button atop, a brocaded pale lavendar tunic of silk, baggy
pale green trousers tied close around the ankles, snow-white socks and the typical shoe. Gravely,
solemnly, methodically he went over the entire house; then returned and clambered up beside John.

"All light," he vouchsafed to the astonished Nan.

Next morning she found waiting on the veranda a smiling "china boy" dressed all in clean white.
A small cloth bundle lay at his feet.

"My name Wing Sam," he announced; "I wo'k you thi'ty dolla' month. Where you keep him bloom?"

That day John McGlynn stopped after unloading his boxes to give a little advice.

"Chinks are queer," said he. "When you show this fellow how to do anything, be sure to show
him right, because that's the way he's going to do it forever after. You can't change him.
And show him; don't tell him. And let him do things his own way as much as you can, instead
of insisting on your way."

McGlynn also advised Keith as to where he could to the best advantage hire a horse and buggy
by the month.

"You want a good safe animal, so Mrs. Keith can drive him; but you don't want a cow. Jump aboard
and I'll take you around. Never mind your coat," he told Keith, "it's warm."

So they "jumped aboard" and drove down the street. Nan gurgled with amusement over the episode.
She sat on the high seat beside John McGlynn's lank figure, above the broad backs of the great
horses; and Keith in his shirtsleeves, his hair every which way, a smudge of black across his
nose, balanced in the flat dray body behind. Nan tried to imagine the sensation they would
create in Baltimore, and laughed aloud.

"Is sort of funny," commented John McGlynn sympathetically. "But everything goes out here."

Nan, aghast at the uncanny perspicacity of the man, choked silently. In her world there had
always been a sort of vague, unexpressed feeling that the "lower classes" were dull.

They used the horse and buggy a great deal. It was delivered at the hotel door every morning
and taken from the same place every evening. Innumerable errands downtown for things forgotten
kept it busy. At night they returned to the hotel pretty well tired out. It was a tremendous
task, much as they might be enjoying it.

"Seems to me the more we do the worse it gets," said Keith. "Let's dig some sort of a hole
and move in anyway."

"In a few days," agreed Nan, who as general-in-chief had a much clearer idea of the actual
state of affairs than the dusty private.

X

One morning the accumulated fatigue had its way, and they overslept scandalously. It was after
ten o'clock before they were ready to drive up the street. As they turned the corner from Kearney
Street they were saluted by the ringing of numerous bells.

"Why, it's Sunday!" cried Keith, after a moment's calculation. In the unexpectedness of this
discovery he reined in the horse.

"It will never do to work to-day," she answered his unspoken thought. "I suppose we ought to
go to church."

But Keith turned the horse's head to the left.

"Church?" he returned with great decision. "We're going on a spree. This is a day of rest,
and we've earned it."

"Where?" asked Nan, a trifle shocked at his implication as to church.

"I haven't the remotest idea," said Keith.

They drove along a plank road leading out of town. It proved to be thronged with people, all
going in the same direction. The shuffle of their feet on the planks and the murmur of their
many voices were punctuated by the klop, klop of hoofs and occasional shouts of laughter. All
races of the earth seemed to be represented. It was like a Congress of the Nations at some
great exposition. French, Germans, Italians, Russians, Dutchmen, British, were to be recognized
and to be expected. But also were strange peoples--Turks, Arabs, Negroes, Chinese, Kanakas,
East Indians, the gorgeous members of the Spanish races, and nondescript queer people to whom
neither Nan nor Keith could assign a native habitat. At every step one or the other called
delighted attention to some new exhibit. Most extraordinary were, possibly, the men from the
gold mines of the Sierras, These were mostly young, but long haired, bearded, rough, wilder
than any mortal man need be. But even the most bizarre seemed to attract no attention. San
Francisco was accustomed to it.

Indeed, the few fashionable strollers were much more stared at. Most of the well dressed were
in some sort of vehicle. The Keiths saw many buggies like their own. A few very smart, or rather
very ornamental, double rigs dashed by. In these sat generally good-looking but rather loud
young women, who stared straight ahead with an assumption of supreme indifference. Hacks or
omnibuses careered along. In these the company was generally merry but mixed, though occasionally
a good-looking couple had hired an ordinary public conveyance. Horsemen and horsewomen were
numerous. Some of these were very dashing indeed, the women with long trailing skirts and high
hats from which floated veils; the men with skin-tight trousers strapped under varnished boots,
and long split-skirted coats. Others were simply plain a- horseback. The native Californians
with their heavy, silver-mounted saddles, braided rawhide reins and bridles, their sombreros,
their picturesque costumes, and their magnificent fiery horses made a fine appearance. Occasionally
screaming, bouncing Chinese, hanging on with both hands, would dash by at full speed, their
horses quite uncontrolled, their garments flying, ecstatically scared and happy, causing great
confusion, and pursued by curses.

"Evidently we're headed in the right direction," remarked Keith.

After a drive of two or three miles, never far from the bay they arrived at what had evidently
been a sleepy little village. The original low, picturesque, red-tiled adobe buildings still
clustered about the Mission. But much had been added. The Keiths found themselves in an immense
confusion. Screaming signs cried everywhere for attention--advertising bear pits, cock fights,
theatrical attractions, side shows, and the like. Innumerable hotels and restaurants, small,
cheap, and tawdry, offered their hospitality, the liquid part of which was already being widely
accepted. Men were striking pegs with hammers, throwing balls at negroes' heads thrust through
canvas, shooting at targets. A racecourse was surrounded. Dust rose in choking clouds, and
the sun beat down heavily.

"Goodness, what a place!" cried Nan in dismay.

Had they known it, there were many quiet, attractive, outlying resorts catering to and frequented
by the fashionables, for "the Mission" was at that time in its heyday as a Sunday amusement
for all classes. As it was, Keith drove on through the village, and so out to a winding country
road.

"This is heavenly," said Nan, and laid aside her veil.

The road wound and meandered through the low hills of the peninsula. The sun beat down on them
in a flood, only its heat, no longer oppressive, had become grateful.

"Doesn't it feel good on your back!" exclaimed Nan, recognizing this quality. "One seems to
soak it in--just the way a thirsty plant soaks water."

The rounded hills were turning a ripe soft brown. Across their crests the sky looked very blue.
High in the heavens some buzzards were sailing. Innumerable quail called. On tree tops perched
yellow-breasted meadow larks with golden voices. In the bottom of the narrow valley where the
road wound were green willow trees and a little trickle of water. From the ground came upward
waves of heat and a pungent clean odour of some weed. Nan was excited and keenly receptive
to impressions.

"It's a hot day!" she cried, "and the road is dusty. By rights it ought to be disagreeable.
But it isn't! Why is that?"

The little valley widened into a pocket. Back from the road stood a low white much house. Its
veranda was smothered in the gorgeousness of bougainvillaea. A grave, elderly, bearded Spaniard,
on horseback, passed them at a smooth shuffling little trot, and gave them a sonorous buenas
dias, The road mounted rapidly. Once when Keith had reined in to breathe the horse, they heard
the droning crescendo hum of a new swarm of bees passing overhead.

"Isn't this nice!" cried Nan, snuggling against Keith's arm.

Suddenly, over the crest and down the other side, they came on sand hills. The horse plodded
along at a walk. Nan hung far out watching, fascinated, the smooth, clean sand dividing before
the wheels and flowing back over the rim, and so over a little rise, and the sea was before them.

"Oh, the Pacific!" exclaimed she, sitting up very straight.

The horse broke into a trot along the smooth hard shore. The wind was coming in from the wide
spaces. A taste of salt was in the air. Foam wreaths advanced and receded with the edge of
the wash, or occasionally blew in a mass across the flat, until gradually they scattered and
dissipated. The horse pricked up his ears, breathed deep of the fresh cool air, expanded his
nostrils snorting softly, pretended to shy at the foam wreaths. The wash advanced and drew
back with a soft hissing sound; the wind blew flat and low, so that even on the wet parts a
fine, white, dried mist of sand was always scurrying and hurrying along close to the ground.
Outside the surges reared and fell with a crash.

After the tepid or heated atmosphere of the hills the air was unexpectedly cool and vital.
A flock of sickle-billed curlews stood motionless until they were within fifty yards; then
rose and flew just inside the line of the breakers, uttering indescribably weird and lonely
cries. A long file of pelicans, their wings outspread, sailed close to the surface of the ocean,
undulating over the waves and into the hollows exactly paralleling, at a height of only a few
feet, the restless contour of the sea. Occasionally they would all flop their wings two or
three times in unison.

"I believe it's a sort of game--they're having fun!" stated Nan with conviction.

Everything seemed to be having fun. Close to the wash were forty or fifty tiny white sanderlings
in a compact band. When the wash receded they followed it with an incredibly rapid twinkling
of little legs; and when again the wave rushed, shoreward, scuttle, scuttle, scuttle went they,
keeping always just at the edge of the water. Never were they forced to wing; yet never did
they permit the distance to widen between themselves and the inrushing or outrushing wave.
There were also sundry ducks. These swam just inside the breakers, and were carried backward
and forward by the surges. Always they faced seaward. At the very last instant, as a great
curler bent over them, they dipped their heads and dived. If the wave did not break, however,
they rode over its top. Their accuracy of eye was uncanny. Time after time they gauged the
wave so closely that they just flipped over the crest as it crashed with a roar beneath them.
A tenth of a second later would have destroyed them. Keith reined up the horse to watch them
and the sanderlings.

"It is a game," he agreed after a while, "just like the pelicans. It isn't considered sporting
for sanderlings to get more than three inches away from the edge of the wash; or for a duck
to dive unless he actually has to. It must be a game; for they certainly aren't catching anything."

At this moment the sanderlings as though at a signal sprang into the air, wheeled back and
forth with instantaneous precision, and departed. The ducks, too, dove, and came up only outside
the surf.

"Good little sportsmen," laughed Keith; "they play the game for its own sake. They don't like
an audience."

After a few miles they came to a cliff reaching down to the beach and completely barring the
way. Off shore were rocky islets covered with seals and sea lions. A lone blue heron stood
atop a sand dune, absolutely motionless.

"I don't know where we are, or how we get out," said Keith, "but I'm going to take that chap
there as a sign post," and he turned his horse directly toward the heron.

Sure enough, a track led them through the sand, and by a zigzag route to the top of the knoll
that had barred their way along the shore. They came to an edge. Before them lay an arm of
the sea, sweeping and eddying with a strong incoming tide. Over the way stood a great mountain,
like a sentinel. Far to their right the arm widened. There was a glimpse of sparkling blue,
and of the pearl of far-off hills, and the haze of a distant dim peak.

"It's the Golden Gate!" cried Keith in sudden enlightenment.

He told her that the mountain over the way must be Tamalpais; that the pearl-gray, far-off
hills must be Contra Costa; that the distant dim peak was undoubtedly Mount Diabolo. She repeated
the syllables after him softly, charmed by their music.

Simultaneously they discovered that they were hungry. The wind whipped in from the sea. An
outpost tent or so marked the distant invisible city over the hills. Keith turned his horse's
head toward them. They drove back across what are now the Presidio hills.

But in a hollow they came upon another ranch house, like the first--low, white, red roofed,
covered with vines. Keith insisted on driving to it. A number of saddled horses dozed before
the door, a half-dozen dogs sprawled in the dust, fowls picked their way between the horses'
legs or over the dogs' recumbent forms. At the sound of wheels several people came from the
shadow of the porch into the open. They proved to be Spanish Californians dressed in the flat
sombreros, the short velvet jackets, the slashed trousers, and soft leather zapatos. The men,
handsome, lithe, indolent, pressed around the wheels of the buggy, showing their white teeth
in pleasant smiles.

"Can we get anything to eat here?" asked Keith.

They all smiled again most amiably. The elder swept off his hat with a free gesture.

"A piedes ouestros, senora," he said, "pero no hablo Ingles. Habla usted Espanol?"

Keith understood the last three words.

"No," he shook his head violently, "no Espanol. Hungry." He pointed to Nan, then to himself:
"She, me, hungry."

This noble effort brought no results, except that the Californians looked more politely distressed
and solicitous than ever.

"They don't understand us," murmured Nan; "don't you think we'd better drive on?"

But Keith, who had now descended from the buggy, resorted to sign language. He rubbed his stomach
pathetically and pointed down his open mouth; as an afterthought he rubbed the horse's belly;
then, with apparent intention, he advanced toward Nan. A furious red inundated her face and
neck, and she held her little parasol threateningly between them. Everybody burst into laughter.

"Si! si! si!" they cried.

Several started to unharness the horse. Others held out their hands. After a moment's hesitation
Nan accepted their aid and descended. Keith's performance was evidently considered a great joke.

On the low veranda were two women, one most enormously fat, the other young and lithe. They
were dressed almost exactly alike, their blue--black hair parted smoothly over their foreheads
but built up to a high structure behind, filmy rebosas over high combs, and skirts with many
flowered flounces. They both had soft, gentle eyes, and they were both so heavily powdered
that their complexions were almost blue. All the men explained to them at once. The younger
answered gayly; the older listened with entire placidity. But when the account was finished,
she reached out to pat Nan's hand, and to smile reassuringly.

Various foods and a flask of red wine were brought. There was no constraint, for Keith threw
himself with delighted abandon into experiments with sign language.

"Esta simpatica," the Californians told each other over and again.

Their manners were elaborate, dignified, deliberate, and beautiful. Keith, ordinarily rather
direct and brusque, to Nan's great amusement became exactly like them. They outvied each other.
The women touched smilingly the stuff of Nan's gown, and directly admired her various feminine
trappings. She, thus encouraged, begged permission to examine more closely the lace of the
rebosas or the beautiful embroidery on the shawls. A little feeling of intimacy drew them all
together, although they understood no word of each other's language.

One of the dogs now approached and gravely laid its nose on Nan's knee, gazing up at her with
searching soft eyes. The older woman cried out scandalized, but Nan shook her head, and patted
the beast's nose.

"You like?" asked the woman.

"Why, you do talk English!" cried Nan.

But either these two words were all the woman had, or she was unwilling to adventure further.

"You like?" she repeated again, after a moment, and then, observing Nan's interest, she uttered
a command to one of the numerous ragged small boys standing about. The urchin darted away,
to return after a moment with a basket, which he emptied on the ground. Four fuzzy puppies
rolled out.

"Oh, the darlings!" cried Nan.

The little animals proceeded at once to roll one another over, growling fiercely, charging
uncertainly about, gazing indeterminately through their blue infantile eyes. The mother left
her position at Nan's knee to hover over them; turning them over with her nose, licking them,
skipping nimbly sidewise when they charged down upon her with an idea of nourishment.

Nan was enchanted. She left the bench to stoop to their level, tumbling them over on their
backs; playfully boxing their ears, working them up to a wild state of yapping enthusiasm.

"The little darlings!" she cried; "just see their fat little tummies! And their teeth are just
like needles. No, no, you mustn't! You'll tear my flounces! Look, Milton, see this little rascal
pull at my handkerchief!"

Her cheeks were flushed, and as she looked up laughing from beneath her hat, she made a very
charming picture.

"You like," stated the Californian woman with conviction.

After a while it became time to go. Vaqueros brought out the horse and harnessed it to the
buggy. Keith made a movement to offer payment, but correctly interpreted the situation and
refrained. They mounted the vehicle.

"Muchas gracias!" Nan enunciated slowly.

This effort was received with an admiring acclaim that flushed Nan with an inordinate pride.
She had picked up the phrase from hearing it used at table. The fat woman came forward, one
of the puppies tucked under her arm. In spite of her apparently unwieldy size she moved gracefully
and lightly.

"You like?" she inquired, holding the squirming puppy at arm's length.

"Si, si, muchas gracias!" cried Nan eagerly, and employing at once all her Spanish vocabulary.
She deposited the puppy in her lap and reached out to shake hands. Keith flicked the horse
with his whip. He, too, had recollected a word of Spanish, and he used it now.

"Adios!" he shouted.

But their hosts had a better phrase.

"Vaya Con Dios!" they cried in chorus.

Nan was in raptures over the whole episode, but especially over the puppy. The latter, with
the instantaneous adaptability of extreme youth, had snuggled down into a compact ball, and
was blinking one hazy dark blue eye upward at his new mistress.

"Weren't they nice people," cried Nan, "and wasn't it an adventure? And isn't he just the dearest,
cutest little thing? You're not a little Spanish dog any more, you know. You're a--what is
it they call us?--oh, yes! You're a gringo now. Why, that's a fine idea! Your name is Gringo!"

And Gringo he became henceforth.

"What kind of a dog is he?" she asked.

Keith grinned sardonically.

"Of course I do not know his honoured father," said he, "so I cannot offer an opinion as to
that half of him. But on his mother's side he is bloodhound, bulldog, collie, setter, pointer,
St. Bernard, and Old English sheepdog."

"Which?"' asked Nan puzzled.

"All," asserted Keith.

Now suddenly the sun was blotted out. They looked back: a white bank of fog was rolling in
from the sea. It flowed over the hills like a flood, reaching long wisps down into the hollows,
setting inertly in the flats and valleys, the upper part rolling on and over in a cascade.
Beneath its shadow the warmth and brightness of the world had died.

"It strikes me we're going to be cold," remarked Keith, urging forward the horse.

The roadbed became more solid, and they trotted along freely. The horse, also, was anxious
to get home. Signs of habitations thickened. The wide waste hills of the ranchos had been left
behind. Here and there were outlying dwellings, or road houses, the objectives of pleasure
excursions of various sorts and degrees of respectability from the city. From one of the latter
came a hail.

"Oh, Keith! I say, Keith!"

From a group of people preparing to enter a number of vehicles two men came running. Ben Sansome
and Morrell, somewhat out of breath, came alongside. They were a little flushed and elevated,
but very cordial, and full of reproaches that Keith had so entirely dropped out of sight during
the past week.

"I tell you, you must come over to our house for supper," said Morrell finally. "Everybody comes."

"The Morrells' Sunday night suppers are an institution," supplemented Sansome.

"I wish I could persuade you," urged Morrell. "I wonder where Mimi is. I know Mrs. Morrell
ought to call, and all that sort of thing, but this is not a conventional place. We live next
door, y'know. Do be delightful and neighbourly, and come!"

Nan hesitated; but the lure of the well-dressed company, so thoroughly at ease with one another,
was irresistible in the reaction. She accepted.

XI

The Keiths arrived to find the Morrells' informal party in full blast. The front parlour was
filled with a number of people making a great noise. Out of the confusion Mrs. Morrell arose
and came to them, as they stood where the China-man had abandoned them.

"Mimi" Morrell was a tall woman, not fat, but amply built, with a full bust and hips. Her hair
was of the peculiar metallic golden blond that might or might not have been natural; her skin
smooth and white, but coarse in grain, would look better at night than by daylight. Her handsome,
regular features were rather hard and set in their expression when in absolute repose, but
absolute repose was rare to them. In action they softened to a very considerable feminine allurement.
She moved with decision, and possibly her general attitude smacked the least bit of running
things. She gave the impression of keeping an eye open for everything going on about her. To
Nan she seemed tremendous, overwhelming, and a little magnificent.

Immediately, without introductions, the whole party moved through the double doors into the
dining-room. There they took their places at a table set out lavishly with food and drink in
great quantity. Mrs. Morrell explained in her high level voice that servants and service were
always dispensed with at her Sunday nights. She rather carelessly indicated a seat to Mrs.
Keith, and remarked to Keith that he was to sit next herself. Otherwise the party distributed
itself. Ben Sansome promptly annexed the chair next to Nan, and started in to make himself
agreeable.

A complete freemasonry obtained among all the party. There was a great deal of shouting back
and forth, from one end of the table to the other. Each seemed to have a nickname. One young
man was known exclusively as "Popsy," another answered as "Zou-zou," a third was called "Billy
Goat"; a very vivid, flashing young woman was "Teeny," and so on. They conversed, or rather
shouted, to a great extent by means of catch words or phrases, alluding evidently to events
the purport of which the Keiths could by no possibility guess. There were a great many private
jokes, the points of which were obvious to only one or two. Every once in a while some one
would say "Number Seven!" and everybody would go off into convulsions of laughter. The vivid
young woman called Teeny suddenly shrieked, "How about Friday, the twenty-third?" at Popsy,
to Popsy's obvious consternation and confusion. Immediately every one turned on either Popsy
or Teeny, demanding the true inwardness of the remark. Popsy defended himself, rather pink
and embarrassed. The young woman, a devilish knowing glint in her eyes, her red underlip caught
between her teeth, refused to answer.

Keith warmed to this free and easy atmosphere. He was friendly and sympathetic with the lively
crowd. But in vain he tried for a point of contact. All this badinage depended on a previous
knowledge and intimacy, and that, of course, he lacked. Mrs. Morrell, sitting beside him very
straight and commanding, delivered her general remarks in a high, clear voice, turning her
attention impartially now to one part of the noisy table, now to another.

Suddenly she abandoned the company to its own devices, and leaning her left elbow on the table,
she turned squarely to Keith, enveloping him with a magnetic all-for-you look.

"Do you know," she said abruptly, "something tells me you are musical."

"Why, I am, a little," admitted Keith, surprised. "But how could you tell?"

"La, now, I was sure you had a voice the first time I heard you speak. I adore music, and I
can always tell."

"Do you sing, too?" asked Keith.

"I? No, unfortunately. I have no more voice than a crow. I strum a bit, but even that has been
a good deal neglected lately. There's no temptation to keep up one's music here. I don't know
a single soul in all this city who cares a snap of their finger for it."

"We'll have to have some music together," suggested Keith.

"I'd adore it. Isn't it lucky we're neighbours? I've been so interested"-- she said it as though
she had almost intended to say "amused"--"in watching you this past week. You are the most
domestic man I know. I never saw a man work so singlemindedly at his house and home. Domesticity
is a rare outworn virtue here, I assure you. It is really quite touching to see a man so devoted
these days."

She said these things idly, a little disjointedly, looking at him steadily all the while. Her
manner was detached, and yet somehow it impelled him strongly to protest that he was really
not a bit domestic.

"Have you met any of the people of the place?" she shifted suddenly,

"Well--I really haven't had much chance yet--a few of the men."

"Well--you'll find things pretty mixed. Don't expect much; one has to take things pretty much
as one finds them."

To this simple speech was appended one gesture only--a slight raising of the eyebrows. Yet
the effect was to sweep Keith into the intimacy of an inner circle, to suggest that she, too,
found society mixed, and to imply-- very remotely--that at least certain members of the present
company itself were not quite what he--or she--would choose in another environment. In unconscious
response to this unspoken thought, Keith glanced about the table. There was a good deal of
drinking going on; and the fun was becoming even more obvious and noisy. Mrs. Morrell occasionally
sipped at her champagne. She emitted a slight but rather disturbing perfume.

"Why did you come out here, anyway?" she asked him. "I can't make out. I'm curious."

"Why shouldn't I?" demanded Keith.

"Well, men come here either for money, for adventure, or to make a career." She marked each
on the tablecloth with the end of a fork. "Which is it?"

"Guess," laughed Keith.

"You don't need money--or else you have a wonderful nerve to take the Boyle house. I believe
you have the nerve, all right. Men with your sort of close curly hair are never--bashful!"
she laughed shortly.

"Boyle's rent is safe--for a while," admitted Keith.

"Career?" she went on, looking him in the eyes speculatively, and allowing her gaze to sink
deep into his. He noticed that her eyes were a gray green, like semi-precious stones of some
sorts, with surface lights, but also with grayer radiations that seemed to go below the surface
to smouldering depths--disturbing eyes, like the perfume. "Career?" she repeated. "I think
you hold yourself better--a career in the riff-raff of this town." She shook her head archly.
"But adventure! Oh, la! There's plenty of that--all sorts!" She gave the impression of meaning
a great deal more than she said. "I wish I were a man!" she exclaimed, and laughed.

"I'm glad you're not," rejoined Keith sincerely.

She tapped him lightly on the arm with her fan.

"Oh, la!" she cried.

Keith laughed meaningly and mischievously. He was feeling entirely at home --in his mental
shirtsleeves--thoroughly at ease.

"You're a lawyer, are you not?" she asked him.

"Try to be."

"Going to practise?"

"If any practice comes my way."

She looked at him, smiling slowly.

"Oh, it'll come fast enough." She seized her glass and held it to him. "Here's to your career!"
she cried. "Bottoms up!"

They clinked glasses and drank.

"You must meet people--influential people," she told him. "We must see what we can do; I'll
have some of them in."

"You're simply fine to take all this trouble for me!"

She tapped him again on the arm.

"Silly! We take care of our own people, of course! Let's plan it. Have you any connections
in town at all?"

"Well, I've met quite a few people about town, and I have some letters."

"Casual acquaintances are well enough, but your letters?"

"I have one to Calhoun Bennett, and to Mr. Dempster, and Mr. Farwell, and Truett--"

But she was making a wry face.

"What's the matter with, them?" he demanded.

"Cal Bennett's all right--but the others--oh, I suppose they're all right in a business way--but--"

"But, what?"

She made a helpless little gesture.

"I can't describe it--you know--the sort that are always so keen on doing their duty!"

She laughed; and to his subconscious surprise Keith found himself saying sympathetically:

"I know the sort of people who always pay their debts!"

They looked into each other's eyes and laughed in comradeship. In sober life Keith did his
duty reasonably well, and was never far behind financially.

She fell silent for a moment; then with a muttered "excuse me," she leaned directly across
his shoulder to impart something low-voiced and giggly to the woman on his right. To do this
she leaned her breast against his arm and shoulder. The conversation lasted some seconds. Keith
could not hear a word of it; but he was disturbingly aware of her perfume, the softness of
her body, and the warmth that struck even through the intervening clothing. She drew back with
a half apology.

"Feminine nonsense," she told him. "Mere man couldn't be expected to understand." She was herself
a little flushed from leaning over, but she appeared not to notice Keith's rather breathless
state. He muttered something, and gulped at his champagne.

"Do you know Mrs. Sherwood?" he asked, merely to say something,

But to his surprise Mrs, Morrell answered him shortly, her manner changing:

"No, I don't. We draw the line somewhere!"

Again she addressed the woman on the right, but this time without leaning across:

"Oh, Amy, the fair Patricia has another victim!" and laughed rather shrilly. Suddenly she rapped
the table with the handle of a knife. "Stop it!" she cried to the company at large. "You're
making too much noise!"

They all turned to her except one youth who was too noisily busy with his partner to have heard
her. Failing in another attempt to get his attention, Mrs. Morrell picked up a chunk of French
bread and hurled it at him.

"Good shot!" "Bravo!" "Encore!" came a burst of applause, as the bread, largely by accident,
took him squarely between the eyes.

The youth, though astonished, was game. He retaliated in kind. Keith whipped up an empty plate
and intercepted it. The youth's partner came to his assistance. Keith, a plate in either hand,
deftly protected Mrs. Morrell from the flying missiles. The implied challenge was instantly
accepted by all. The air was full of bread. Keith's dexterity was tested to the utmost, but
he came through the battle with flying colours. Everybody threw bread. There was much explosive
laughter, that soon became fairly exhausting. The battle ceased, both because the combatants
were out of ammunition, and because they were too weak from mirth to proceed. Keith with elaborate
mock gallantry turned and presented Mrs. Morrell with the two plates.

"The spoils of war!" he told her.

"He should be decorated for conspicuous gallantry on the field of battle!" cried some one.

The idea took. But they could find nothing appropriate until Teeny McFarlane deliberately stepped
up on the table and broke from the glass chandelier one of its numerous dangling prisms. This
called forth a mild protest from Morrell--"Oh, I say!"--which was drowned in a wild shriek
of delight. The process of stepping down from the table tilted Teeny's wide skirts so that
for an instant a slim silken leg was plainly visible as far as the knee. "Oh! oh!" cried every
one. Some pretended to be shocked, and covered their faces with spread fingers; others feigned
to try for another look. Teeny was quite unperturbed.

Keith was the centre of attention and a great success. But there were no more tete-a-tetes.
Mrs. Morrell managed to convey the idea that she was displeased, and Keith was of a sufficiently
generous and ingenuous disposition to be intrigued by the fact. He had no chance to probe the
matter. In a moment or so Mrs. Morrell rose and strolled toward the drawing-room. The others
straggled after her. She rather liked thus to emphasize her lack of convention as a hostess,
making a pose of never remembering the proper thing to do. Now she moved here and there, laughing
her shrill rather mirthless laugh, calling everybody "dearie," uttering abrupt little platitudes.
Keith found himself left behind, and rather out in the cold. The company had quite frankly
segregated itself into couples. The room was well adapted to this, filled as it was with comfortable
chairs arranged with apparent carelessness two by two. The men lighted cigars. Keith saw Nan's
eyes widen at this. She was sitting near the fire, and Sansome had penned her in beyond the
possibility of invasion by a third. At this date smoking was a more or less doubtfully considered
habit, and in the best society men smoked only in certain rigidly specified circumstances.
In a drawing-room such an action might be considered the fair equivalent to powdering the feminine
nose.

In such a condition, Keith was left rather awkwardly alone, and was fairly thrust upon a fictitious
interest in a photograph album, at which he glowered for some moments. Then by a well-planned
and skilfully executed flank movement he caught Mrs. Morrell.

"Look here," he demanded; "what has the standing army done to deserve abandonment in a hostile
country?"

But she looked at him directly, without response to his playful manner.

"My friend," she said, "this is a pretty free and easy town, as no doubt you have observed,
and society is very mixed. But we haven't yet come to receiving women like Mrs. Sherwood, or
relishing their being mentioned to us."

"Why, what's the matter with her?" demanded Keith, astonished. "Is she as far from respectability
as all that?"

"Respectable! That word isn't understood in San Francisco." She appeared suddenly to soften.
"You're a dear innocent boy, so you are, and you've got a dear innocent little wife, and I'll
have to look out for you."

Before the deliberate and superior mockery in her eyes as well as in her voice, Keith felt
somehow like a small boy. He was stung to a momentary astonishing fury.

"By God--" he began, and checked himself with difficulty.

She smiled at him slowly.

"Perhaps I didn't mean all of that," she said; "perhaps only half of it," she added with significance.
"My personal opinion is that you are likely to be a curly haired little devil; and when you
look at me like that, I'm glad we're not alone."

She looked at him an enigmatic moment, then turned away from the table near which they had
been standing. "Come, help me break up some of this 'twosing,'" she said.

Shortly after this the party dispersed. Mrs. Morrell said good-bye to them carelessly, or not
at all, according as it happened.

"You must come again, come often," she told the Keiths. "It's pretty dull unless you make your
own fun." She was half sleepily conventional, her lids heavy. "Perhaps we can have some music
soon," she added. The words were careless, but she shot Keith an especial gleam.

The Keiths walked sociably home together, almost in silence. Keith, after his habit, super-excited
with all the fun, the row, and the half-guilty boyish feeling of having done a little something
he ought not to have done, did not want to seem too enthusiastic.

"Jolly crowd," he remarked.

"They were certainly noisy enough," said Nan indifferently; then after a moment, "Where do
you suppose some of them get their clothes?"

Keith's mind was full of the excitement of the evening. He found himself reviewing the company,
appraising it, wondering about it. Was Teeny McFarlane as gay as she appeared? He had never
seen women smoke before; but that dark girl with the red thing in her hair puffed a cigarette.
Perhaps she was Spanish--he had not met her. And Mrs. Morrell--hanged if he quite dared make
her out--it wouldn't do to jump to conclusions nor too hastily to apply Eastern standards;
this was a new country, fatal to make a fool mistake; well-built creature, by gad--

Nan interrupted his thoughts. He came to with a start.

"I think we'd better put the big armchair in the front room, after all," she was saying.

XII

Next morning Keith allayed what little uneasiness his conscience might harbour by remarking,
as he adjusted his collar:

"Mrs. Morrell is an amusing type, don't you think? She's a bit vulgar, but she seems good hearted.
Wonder what colour her hair used to be?"

"I suppose they are all right," said Nan. "They are a little rowdy. They gave me a headache."

Illogically rehabilitated in his own self-esteem, Keith went on dressing. He was "on" to Mrs.
Morrell; her methods were pretty obvious. Wonder if she thought she had really fooled him?
Next time he would be on guard and beat her at her own game. She was not a woman to his taste,
anyway--he glanced admiringly at Nan's clean profile against the light--but she was full of
vitality, she was keen, she was brimming with the joy of life.

The long drive over the Peninsula to the sea and back, the episode of the Spanish people, the
rowdy supper party, had one effect, however: it had made so decided a break in the routine
that Keith found himself thrust quite outside it. He had worked feverishly all the week, at
about double speed; and in ordinary course would have gone on working feverishly at double
speed for another week. Now, suddenly, the thought was irksome. He did not analyze this; but,
characteristically, discovered an irrefutable reason for not going on with it. They rescued
Gringo from Sam's care, and drove up to the house. On the way Keith said:

"Look here, Nan; do you suppose you and Wing can get on all right this morning? All the heavy
work is done. I really ought to be settling the office and getting some lines laid for business."

"Why, of course we can get on, silly!" she rejoined. "This isn't your job, anyway. Of course
you ought to attend to your business."

Keith again consulted Palmer, Cook & Co. The same clerk showed him offices. He was appalled
at the rents. Even a miserable little back room in the obscurer blocks commanded a sum higher
than he had anticipated paying. After looking at a dozen, he finally decided on a front room
in the Merchants' Exchange Building. This was one of the most expensive, but Keith was tired
of looking. The best is the greatest economy in the long run, he told himself, and with a lawyer,
new-come, appearances count for much in getting clients. Must get the clients, though, to support
this sort of thing! The rest of the morning he spent buying furniture.

About noon he walked back to the Bella Union. His horse and buggy were not hitched to the rail,
so he concluded Nan had not yet returned for lunch. Mrs. Sherwood, however, was seated in a
rocker at the sunny end of the long veranda. She looked most attractive, her small smooth head
bent over some sort of fancywork. Before she looked up Keith had leisure to note the poise
of her head and shoulders, the fine long lines of her figure, and the arched-browed serenity
of her eyes. Different type this from the full- breasted Morrell, more--more patrician! Rather
absurd in view of their respective places in society, but a fact. Keith found himself swiftly
speculating on Mrs. Sherwood's origin and experience. She was endowed with a new glamour because
of Mrs. Morrell's enigmatic remark the evening before, and also--for Keith was very human--with
a new attraction. Feeling vaguely and boyishly devilish, Keith. stopped.

She nodded at him, laying her work aside.

"You are practically invisible." she told him.

"Making ourselves a habitation. Seen Mrs. Keith?"

"No. I don't think she's come in."

Keith hesitated, then:

"I think I'll go up to the house for her."

Mrs. Sherwood nodded, and resumed her work calmly, without further remark.

At the house Keith found Nan, her apron on, her hair done up under a dust cap, very busy.

"Noon?" she cried, astonished. "It can't be! But I can't stop now. I think I'll have Wing pick
me up a lunch. There's plenty in the house. It's too much bother to clean up."

Keith demurred; then wanted to stay for the pick-up lunch himself. Nan would have none of it.
She was full of repressed enthusiasm and eagerness, but she wanted to get rid of him.

"There's not enough. I wouldn't have you around. Go away, that's a good boy! If you'll leave
Wing and me entirely alone we'll be ready to move in to-morrow."

"Where's Gringo?" asked Keith by way of indirect yielding--he had really no desire for a picked-up
lunch.

"The little rascal! He started to chew everything in the place, so I tied him in the backyard.
He pulls and flops dreadfully. Do you think he'll strangle himself?"

Keith looked out the window. Gringo, all four feet planted, was determinedly straining back
against his tether. The collar had pulled forward all the loose skin of his neck, so that his
eyes and features were lost in wrinkles.

"He doesn't yap," volunteered Nan.

Keith gave it as his opinion that Gringo would stop short of suicide, commended Gringo's taciturnity
and evident perseverance, and departed for the hotel. In the dining-room he saw Mrs. Sherwood
in a riding habit, eating alone. Keith hesitated, then took the vacant seat opposite. She accorded
this permission cordially, but without coquetry, remarking that Sherwood often did not get
in at noon. Immediately she turned the conversation to Keith's affairs, inquiring in detail
as to how the settling was getting on, when they expected to get in, how they liked the house,
whether they had bought all the furniture.

"You remember I directed you to the auctions?" she said.

She asked all these questions directly, as a man would, and listened to his replies.

"I suppose you have an office picked out?" she surmised.

At his mention of the Merchants' Exchange Building she raised her arched eyebrows half humorously.

"You picked out an expensive place."

Keith went over his reasoning, to which she listened with a half smile.

"You may be right," she commented; "the reasoning is perfectly sound. But that means you must
get the business in order to make it pay. What are your plans?"

He confessed that as yet they were rather vague; there had not been time to do much--too busy
settling.

"The usual thing, I suppose," he added: "get acquainted, hang out a shingle, mix with people,
sit down and starve in the traditional manner of young lawyers."

He laughed lightly, but she refused to joke.

"There are a good many lawyers here--and most of them poor ones," she told him. "The difficulty
is to stand out above the ruck, to become noticed. You must get to know all classes, of course;
but especially those of your own profession, men on the bench. Yes, especially men on the bench,
they may help you more than any others--"

He seemed to catch a little cynicism in her implied meaning, and experienced a sense of shock
on his professional side.

"You don't mean that judges are--"

"Susceptible to influence?" She finished the sentence for him with an amused little laugh.
She studied him for an instant with new interest, "They're human--more human here than anywhere
else--like the rest of us-- they respond to kind treatment--" She laughed again, but at the
sight of his face her own became grave. She checked herself. "Everything is so new out here.
In older countries the precedents have all been established. Out here there are practically
none. They are being made now, every day, by the present judges. Naturally personal influence
might get a hearing for one point of view or the other--"

"I see what you mean," he agreed, his face clearing.

"Join a good fire company," she advised him. "That is the first thing to do. Each company represents
something different, a different class of men."

"Which would you advise?" asked Keith seriously.

"That is a matter for your own judgment. Only, investigate well. Meet all the people you can.
Know the newspaper men, and the big merchants. In your profession you must cultivate men like
Terry, Girvin, Shattuck, Gwin. Keep your eyes open. Be bold and use your wits. Above all, make
friends; that's it, make friends--everybody, everywhere. Don't despise anybody. You will get
plenty of chances." She was sitting erect, and her eyes were flashing. Her usual slow indolent
grace had fallen from her; she radiated energy. Her slender figure took on a new appearance
of knit strength. "Such chances! My heavens! if I were a man!"

"You'd make a bully man!" cried Keith. Mrs. Morrell, uttering the same wish, had received from
him a different reply, but he had forgotten that.

She laughed again, the tension broke, and she sank back into her usual relaxed poise.

"But, thank heavens, I'm not," said she.

XIII

Affairs for the Keiths passed through another week of what might be called the transition stage.
It took them that long to settle down in their new house and into some semblance of a routine--two
days to the actual installation, and the evenings full of small matters to arrange. Nan was
busy all day long playing with her new toy. The housekeeping was fascinating, and Wing Sam
a mixture of delight and despair. Like most women who have led the sheltered life, she had
not realized as yet that the customs of her own fraction of one per cent, were not immutable.
Therefore, she tried to model the household exactly in the pattern of those to which she had
been accustomed. Wing Sam blandly refused to be moulded.

Thus Nan spent all one morning drilling him in the proper etiquette of answering doors. Mindful
of John McGlynn's advice, she did this by precept, ringing her own door bell, presenting a
card as though calling on herself. Wing Sam's placid exterior changed not. A half hour later
the door bell rang, but no Wing Sam appeared to answer it. It rang again, and again, until
Nan herself opened the door. On the doorstep stood Wing Sam himself.

"I foolee you, too," he announced with huge delight.

Painstakingly Nan conveyed to him that this was neither an amusing game nor a practical joke.
Later in the day the door bell rang again. Nan, hovering near to gauge the result of her training,
saw Wing Sam plant himself firmly in the opening.

"You got ticket?" he demanded sternly of the deliveryman outside. "You no got ticket, you no
get in!"

Which, Nan rather hysterically gathered, was what Wing Sam had gained of the calling-card idea.
After that, temporarily as she thought, Nan permitted him to go back to his own method, which,
had she known it, was the method of every Chinese servant in California. The visitor found
his bell answered by a blandly smiling Wing Sam, who cheerfully remarked: "Hullo!" It was friendly,
and it didn't matter; but at that stage of her development Nan was more or less scandalized.

Nan's sense of humour always came to her assistance by evening, and she had many amusing anecdotes
to tell Keith, over which both of them laughed merrily. Gringo added somewhat to the complications
in life. He was a fat, roly-poly, soft-boned, ingratiating puppy, with a tail that waved energetically
but uncontrolledly. Gringo at times was very naughty, and very much in the way. But when exasperation
turned to vengeance he had a way of keeling over on his back, spreading his hind legs apart
in a manner to expose his stomach freely to brutal assault, and casting one calm china- blue
eye upward.

"Can there anywhere exist any one so hard-hearted as to injure a poor, absolutely defenceless
dog?" he inquired, with full confidence in the answer.

The iniquities of Gringo and the eccentricities of Wing Sam Nan detailed at length, and also
her experiences with the natives. She as yet looked on every one as natives. Only later could
she expand to the point of including them in her cosmos of people. Nan was transplanted, and
her roots had not yet struck down into the soil. In her shopping peregrinations she was making
casual acquaintance, and she had not yet become accustomed to it.

"I bought some darling little casseroles at Phelan's to-day," she said. "The whole Phelan family
waited on me. Where do you suppose the women get their perfectly awful clothes? Mrs. Phelan
offered to take me to her milliner!" or "You know Wilkins--the furniture man where we got the
big armchair? I was in there to-day, and he apologized because his wife hadn't called!"

They went to bed early, because they were both very tired.

Keith also had generally passed an interesting day. Immediately after breakfast he went to
his office, and conscientiously sat a while. Sometimes he wrote letters or cast up accounts;
but there could not be much of this to do. About ten or eleven o'clock his impatient temperament
had had enough of this, so he drifted over to the Monumental engine house. After considerable
thought he had decided to join this company. It represented about the class of men with whom
he wanted to affiliate himself--the influential men of the lawyer, Southern-politician, large
business men type. There were many of these volunteer organizations. Their main purpose was
to fight fire; but they subserved other objects as well--political, social, and financial.
David Broderick, for example, already hated and feared, partly owned and financed a company
of ward-heelers who were introducing and establishing the Tammany type of spoils politics.
Casey, later in serious trouble, practically manipulated another.

Among the Monumentals, Keith delighted especially in Bert Taylor. Bert Taylor likewise delighted
in Keith. The little chubby man's enthusiasm for the company, while recognized as most valuable
to the company's welfare, had ended by boring most of the company's members. But Keith was
a new listener and avid for information. He had had no notion of how complicated the whole
matter could be. Bert Taylor dissertated sometimes on one phase of the subject, sometimes on
another.

"It's drills we need, and the fellows won't drill enough!" was Bert Taylor's constant complaint.
"What do they know about hose? They run it out any way it comes; and roll it up anyhow, instead
of doing a proper job."

"How should you do it?" asked Keith.

"It ought to be laid right--so there's no bends or sharp angles in it; it should never be laid
over heaps of stones, or any kind of uneven surface-- it all increases the water resistance.
If there are any bends or curves they should be regular and even. The hose ought never to rest
against a sharp edge or angle. And when you coil it up you ought to reverse the sides every
time, so it will wear even and stretch even. Do they do it? Not unless I stand over them with
a club!"

He showed Keith the hose, made of India rubber, a comparatively new thing, for heretofore hose
had been made of riveted leather. Bert Taylor made him feel the inside of this hose with his
forefinger to test its superlative smoothness.

"Mighty little resistance there!" he cried triumphantly.

The nozzles, all in racks, he handled with almost reverent care.

"These are the boys that cost the money," said Taylor. "If the inside isn't polished like a
mirror the water doesn't come smooth. And the least little dent makes the stream ragged and
broken. Nothing looks worse--and it isn't as effective on the fire. It ought to be thrown like
a solid rod of water. I can't get the boys to realize that the slightest bruise, dent, or burr
throws the stream in a ragged feathery foam. The result of that is that a lot of water is dissipated
and lost."

Keith, who had taken hold of the nozzle rather negligently, returned it with the reverent care
due crown jewels.

"How long a stream will it throw?" he asked.

"With thirty men on a side she's done a hundred and twelve feet high, and two hundred and eighteen
for distance," said Bert with simple pride.

He picked up the nozzle again.

"See here. Here's an invention of my own. Cost money to put it in, too, because every other
nozzle on earth is made wrong."

He explained that other nozzles are made so that the thread of the hose screwed into the nozzle;
while in his, the thread of the nozzle screwed into the hose.

"If there's a leak or a bad connection," explained Bert, "with the old type, the water is blown
back into the fireman's face, and he is blinded. His whole efficiency depends on a close joint.
But with my scheme the leak is blown forward, away from the lineman. It's a perfectly sound
scheme, but I can't make them see it."

"Sounds reasonable," observed Keith, examining perfunctorily a device to which later he was
to owe his life.

Item by item they went over the details of equipment--the scaling ladders, the jumping sheets,
the branch pipes, the suction pipes, the flat roses, standcocks, goose necks, the dogtails,
dam boards, shovels, saws, poleaxes, hooks, and ropes. From a consideration of them the two
branched off to the generalities of fire fighting. Keith learned that the combating of a fire,
the driving it into a corner, outflanking it, was a fine art.

"I say always, get in close," said Taylor. "A fire can be put out as well as just drowned out."

It struck Keith as interesting that in a room a stream should always be directed at the top
of a fire, so that the water running down helps extinguish the flames below, whereas in attack
at the bottom or centre merely puts out the immediate blaze, leaving the rest to spread upward
or sideways. Taylor put himself on record against fighting fire from the street.

"Don't want a whole lot of water and row," he maintained. "Get in close quarters and make every
drop count."

When Bert's enthusiasm palled, Keith always found men in the reading-room. The engine house
was a sort of clearing house for politics, business schemes, personal affairs, or differences.

Once a day, also, as part of his job in his profession, Keith went to the courthouse. There
he sat in the enclosure reserved for lawyers and listened to the proceedings, his legal mind
alert and interested in the technical battles. At no time in the world's history has sheer
technicality unleavened by common sense been carried further than in the early California courts.
Even in the most law-ridden times elsewhere a certain check has been exercised by public opinion
or the presence of business interests. But here was as yet no public opinion; and business
interests, their energies fully taxed by the necessities of a new country, were willing to
pay heavily to be let alone. Consequently, lawyers were permitted to play out their fascinating
game to their hearts' content, and totally without reference to expedience or to the justice
of the case. The battles were indeed intensely technical and shadowy. Points within points
were fought bitterly. Often for days the real case at issue was forgotten.

Only one of the more obvious instances of technical triumph need be cited. One man killed another,
on a public street, before many witnesses. The indictment was, however, thrown out and he released
because it stated only that the victim was killed by a pistol, and failed to specify that his
death was due to the discharge of said pistol. The lawyer who evolved this brilliant idea was
greatly admired and warmly congratulated.

The wheels of the law ground very slowly. One of the simplest and most effective expedients
of defence was delay. A case could be postponed and remanded, often until the witnesses were
scattered or influenced. But there were infinite numbers of legal expedients, all most interesting
to a man of Keith's profession. His sense of justice was naturally strong and warm, and an
appeal to it outside a courtroom or a law office always got an immediate and commonsense response.
But inside the law his mind automatically closed, and a "case" could have only legal aspects.
Which is true of the majority of lawyers to-day.

On the adjournment of court Keith generally drifted over to the El Dorado or the Empire, where
he spent an hour or so loafing with some of his numerous acquaintances. He was of the temperament
that makes itself quickly popular, the laughing, hearty sort, full of badinage, and genuinely
liking most men with whom he came in contact. There was always much joking in the air, but
back of it was a certain reserve, a certain wariness, for every second man was a professed
"fire-eater," given to feeling insulted on the slightest grounds, and flying to the duel or
the street fight instanter.

This hour was always most pleasant to Keith; nevertheless, he went home about five o'clock
in order to enjoy an hour or so of daylight about the place. He performed prodigies of digging
in the new garden: constructing terraces, flower beds, walks, and the like. While the actual
construction work was under way he was greatly interested, but cared nothing for the finished
product or the mere growing of the flowers.

Gringo received his share of training, at first to his intense disgust. Twice he refused obedience,
and the matter being pressed, resorted to the simple expedient of retiring from the scene.
Keith dropped everything and pursued. Gringo crawled under things, but was followed even to
the dustiest and cob-webbiest farthest corner under the porch; he tried swiftness and dodging,
but was trailed in all his doublings and twistings at top speed; he tried running straight
away over the sand hills, and at first left his horrible master behind, but the horrible master
possessed a horrible persistence. Finally he shut his eyes and squatted, expecting instant
annihilation, but instead was haled back to the exact scene of his disobedience, and the command
repeated. Nan laughed until the tears came, over the large, warm, red-faced man after the small,
obstinate, scared pup, but Keith refused to joke.

"If he finds he can't get away, no matter what happens, I'll never have to do it again," he
panted. "But if he wins out, even once, it'll be an awful job."

Gringo tried twice. Then, his faith in his ability to escape completely shattered, he gave
up. After that he adored Keith and was always under his feet.

Keith saw nothing of any of the women. Mrs. Sherwood seemed to have dropped from their ken
when they left the hotel. Once Keith inquired casually about Mrs. Morrell.

"She's been over twice to see the place," replied Nan.

"We ought to go over there to call," proffered Keith vaguely; but there the matter rested.

XIV

One night Keith was awakened by Nan's suddenly sitting up in bed. There came to his struggling
consciousness the persistent steady clangour of many deep bells. Slowly recognition filtered
into his mind--the fire bells!

He hastily pulled on some clothes and ran down the front stairs, stumbling over Gringo, who
uttered an outraged yelp. From the street he could see a red glow in the sky. At top speed
he ran down the street in the direction of the Monumental. In the half darkness he could make
out other figures running. The deep tones of the bells continued to smite his ear, but now
in addition he heard the tinkling and clinking of innumerable smaller bells-- those on the
machines. He dashed around a corner to encounter a double line of men, running at full speed,
hauling on a long rope attached to an engine. Their mouths were open, and they were all yelling.
The light engine careened and swayed and bumped. Two men clung to the short steering tongue,
trying to guide it. They were thrown violently from side to side, dragged here and there, tripping,
hauling, falling across the tongue, but managing to keep the machine from dashing off at a
tangent. Above them, high and precarious, swayed the short stout figure of Bert Taylor. He
was in full regalia--leather helmet, heavy leather belt, long-tailed coat, and in his free
hand the chased silver speaking trumpet with the red tassels that usually hung on the wall.
He was in his glory, dominating the horde. His keen eye, roving everywhere, seeing everything,
saw Keith.

"Catch hold!" he roared through the trumpet.

Keith made a flying grab at a vacant place on the line, caught it, was almost jerked from his
feet, recovered himself, and charged on, yelling like the rest.

But now Bert Taylor began to shriek something excitedly. It became evident, from glimpses caught
down the side streets, but especially through the many vacant lots, that another engine was
paralleling their own course a block away.

"Jump her, boys, jump her!" shrieked Bert Taylor. "For God's sake, don't let those Eurekas
beat you!"

He danced about on top of the waterbox of the engine, in imminent peril of being jerked from
his place, battering his silver trumpet insanely against the brake rods, beseeching, threatening
profanely. And profanity at that time was a fine art. Men studied its alliteration, the gorgeousness
of its imagery, the blast of its fire. The art has been lost, existing still, in a debased
form, only among mule drivers, sailors, and the owners of certain makes of automobiles. The
men on the rope responded nobly. The roar of their going over the plank road was like hollow
thunder. A man dropped out. Next day it was discovered he had broken his leg in a hole. At
tremendous speed they charged through the ring of spectators, and drew up, proud and panting,
victors by a hundred feet, to receive the plaudits of the multitude. A handsome man on a handsome
horse rode up.

"Monumentals on the fire! Eurekas on cistern number twenty!" he commanded briefly.

This was Charles Duane, the unpaid fire chief; a likable, efficient man, but too fond of the
wrong sort of friends.

Now it became evident to Keith why Bert Taylor had urged them so strongly in the race. The
fire was too distant from the water supply to be carried in one length of hose. Therefore,
one engine was required to relay to another, pumping the water from the cistern, through the
hose, and into the waterbox of the other engine. The other engine pumped it from its own waterbox
on to the fire. The latter, of course, was the position of honour.

The Eurekas fell back grumbling, and uttering open threats to wash their rivals. By this they
meant that they would pump water into the Monumentals faster than the latter could pump it
out, thus overflowing and eternally disgracing them. They dropped their suction hose into the
cistern, and one of their number held the end of the main hose over a little trapdoor in the
Monumental's box. The crews sprang to the long brake handles on either side, and at once the
regular thud, thud, thud of the pumps took up its rhythm. The hose writhed and swelled; the
light engines quivered. Bert Taylor and the Eureka foreman, Carter by name, walked back and
forth as on their quarterdecks, exhorting their men. Relays, in uniform assumed on the spot,
stood ready at hand. Nobody in either crew knew or cared anything whatsoever about the fire.
As the race became closer, the foremen got more excited, begging their crews to increase the
stroke, beating their speaking trumpets into shapeless battered relics. An astute observer
would now have understood one reason why the jewellery stores carried such a variety of fancy
speaking trumpets. They were for presentation by grateful owners after the fire had been extinguished,
and it was generally necessary to get a new one for each fire.

Keith, acting under previous instructions, promptly seized a helmet and poleaxe and made his
way to the front. The fire had started in one of many flimsy wooden buildings, and had rapidly
spread to threaten a whole district. Men from the hook and ladder companies were already at
work on some of the hopeless cases. A fireman or two mounted ladders to the eaves, dragging
with them a heavy hook on the end of a long pole.

"Yo, heave ho!" they cried.

The timbers cracked, broke, the whole side of the house came out with a grand and satisfying
crash. An inferno of flame was thereby laid open to the streams from the hose lines. It was
grand destructive fun for everybody, especially for the boys of all ages, which included in
spirit about every male person present.

This sort of work was intended, of course, to confine or check the fire within the area already
affected, and could accomplish nothing toward saving the structures already alight. The roar
of the flames, the hissing of firebrands sucked upward, the crash of timbers, the shrieks of
the foremen through their trumpets, the yells of applause or of sarcasm from the crowd, and
the thud, thud, thud, thud of numerous brake bars made a fine pandemonium. Everybody except
the owners or tenants of the buildings was delighted.

Keith, with two others, was instructed to carry the Monumental nozzle to the roof of a house
not afire. Proudly they proceeded to use their scaling ladders. These were a series of short
sections, each about six feet long, the tops slightly narrower than the bottoms. By means of
slots these could be fitted together. First, Keith erected one of them against the wall of
the building, at an angle, and ascended it, carrying another section across his shoulder. When
he reached a certain rung, which was painted red, he thrust his foot through the ladder and
against the wall, pushed the ladder away from the wall, and fitted the section he was carrying
to the top of the section on which he was standing. He then hauled up another section and repeated.
When the ladder had reached to the eaves, he and his companions dragged the squirting, writhing
hose up with them, chopped footholds in the roof, and lay flat to look over the ridgepole as
over a breastwork. All this to the tune of admiring plaudits and with a pleasing glow of heroism.
There was a skylight, but either they overlooked or scorned that prosaic expedient.

At the other end of the ridgepole Keith made out the dark forms of two men from another company.
His own companions, acting under orders, now descended the ladder, leaving him alone.

The next building was a raging furnace, and on it Keith directed the heavy stream from his
nozzle. It was great fun. At first the water seemed to have no effect whatever, but after a
little it began to win. The flames were beaten back, broken into detachments. Finally, Keith
got to the point of chasing down small individual outbreaks, driving them into their lairs,
drowning them as they crouched. He was wholly interested, and the boy in him, with a shamefaced
half apology to the man in him, pretended that he was a soldier directing a battery against
an enemy.

Along the ridgepole cautiously sidled the two men of the other company, dragging their hose.
Keith now recognized them. One was a vivid, debonair, all-confident, magnetic individual named
Talbot Ward, a merchant, promoter, speculator, whom everybody liked and trusted; the other
a fair Hercules of a man, slow and powerful in everything, called Frank Munro.

"Look here," said Ward, "does it strike you this roof's getting hot?"

Recalled to himself, Keith immediately became aware of the fact.

"The house is afire beneath us," said Ward; "we've got to get out."

"What's the matter with your ladder?" asked Keith.

"They took it away."

"We'll use mine."

They let themselves cautiously down the footholds that had been chopped in the roof, and looked
over. A blast of smoke and flame met them in the face.

"Good Lord, she's all afire!" cried Keith, aghast.

The flames were licking around the scaling ladder, which was already blazing. Keith directed
the stream from his hose straight down, but with no other result than to break the charred ladder.

They crawled back to the ridgepole, and worked their hose lines around to the end of the building,
out of the flames. Here a two-story drop confronted them.

"This thing is going to fall under us if we don't do something," muttered Ward.

"Duane's forgotten us, and those crazy idiots at the engines are too busy trying to keep from
being washed," surmised Keith.

"Look here," said Munro suddenly; "I'll brace against a chimney and hang on to the hose, and
you can slide down it like a rope."

"How about you?" demanded Ward crisply.

"You can run for more ladders, once you're on the ground."

At this moment the water failed in Keith's hose. He stared at the nozzle, then rapidly began
to unscrew it.

"Cistern empty or hose burst," surmised Munro.

But Talbot Ward, cocking his ear toward a distant pandemonium of cheering, guessed the true cause.

"Sucked," said he. By this he meant that the Monumental crew had succeeded in emptying their
water box in spite of the Eureka's best efforts.

"Get off your nozzle quick!" urged Keith.

Munro, without stopping to ask why, bent his great strength to the task; and it was a task,
for in his hose the pressure of the water was tremendous. It spurted back all over him, and
at the last the nozzle was fairly blown away from him.

"Now couple my hose to yours quick, quick, before my hose fills!" cried Keith.

"They won't go--" Munro began to object.

"Yes, they will, mine's a special thread," urged Keith, who had remembered Bert Taylor's reversed
nozzle.

All three bent their energies to catching the threads. It was a fearful job, for the strength
of the water had first to be overcome. Keith was terribly excited. Time was precious, for not
only might the roof give way beneath them, but at any moment the water might come again in
Keith's hose. Then it would be physically impossible to make the coupling. All three men concentrated
their efforts on it, their feet gripping the irregularities of the roof or slipping on the
shingles. Frank Munro bent his enormous back to the task, the veins standing out in his temples,
his face turning purple with the effort. Keith helped him as well as he was able. Talbot Ward,
coolly, deliberately, delicately, as though he had all the time in the world, manipulated the
coupling, feeling gingerly for the thread. The water spurted, fanned, sprayed, escaping with
violence, first at one point, then at another, drenching and blinding them.

"There!" breathed Ward at last, and with a few twists, of his sinewy hands brought the couplings
into close connection. Munro relaxed, drawing two or three deep breaths. Without the aid of
his great strength the task could not have been accomplished.

"Hook her over the chimney," gasped Keith.

With some difficulty they lifted the loop of the throbbing hose over the chimney.

"Down we go!" cried Keith, and slid hand over hand down the way thus made for them. The others
immediately followed, and all three stood looking back. It was a wonder the building had stood
so long, for in both stories it was afire, and the walls had apparently burned quite through.
Indeed, a moment later the whole structure collapsed. A fountain of sparks and brands sprang
upward in the mighty suction.

"There goes our good hose!" said Keith.

The remark brought them to wrath and a desire for vengeance.

"I'm going to lick somebody!" cried Keith, starting determinedly in the direction of the engine.

"We'll help," growled Munro.

But when they came in sight of the engine their anger evaporated, and they clung to each other,
weak with mirth.

For the Monumental was "washed," and washed aplenty. This was natural, for now the water was
pouring into her box from both directions, and would continue so to pour until the hose coupled
to Ward's engine had burned through. The water was fairly spouting up from the box, not merely
overflowing. Her crew were still working, but raggedly and dispiritedly. Bert Taylor, his trumpet
battered beyond all recognition, was fairly voiceless with rage. An interested and ribaldry
facetious crowd spared not its sarcasm.

"My crowd must be in the same fix!" gurgled Ward; "the back pressure has 'washed' them, too."
Then the full splendour of the situation burst on him, and he fell again on Munro for support.

"Don't you see," he gasped. "They'll never know! The hose will burn through. Unless we tell,
they'll never know! We've got even, all right."

At this moment Duane rode up, foaming at the mouth, and desiring to know what the assorted
adjectives they were doing there. The crews awoke to their isolation and general uselessness.
Bert Taylor, still simmering, descended from his perch. They followed the hose lines to glowing
coals!

"Here, this won't do," said Talbot; so they reported themselves before the news of a tragedy
had had time to spread.

The fire was now practically under control. It had swept a city block pretty clean, but had
been confined to that area. An hour later they dragged their engine rather dispiritedly back
to the house. Ordinarily they would have been in high spirits. Fires were to these men a good
deal of a lark. The crews were very effective and well drilled, and the saving of property
was as well done as possible, but that was all secondary to the game of it. But to-night they
had been "washed," they had lost the game, and the fact that they had put out the fire cut
very little figure. There was much bickering. It seemed that Bert Taylor, in his enthusiasm,
had, out of his own pocket, hired extra men who appeared at the critical moment to relieve
the tired men at the brakes; and it was under their fresh impetus that the Monumental had so
triumphantly "sucked." Now Bert Taylor was freely blamed. The regular men stoutly maintained
that if they had been left alone this would never have happened.

"These whiskey bummers never can last!" they said. Everybody trooped upstairs to the main rooms,
where refreshments were served. After some consideration Keith decided to tell his story in
explanation of how it was that the Monumentals were washed. Instantly the company cheered up,
A clamour broke out. This was great! With Talbot Ward and Munro to corroborate, no one could
doubt the story. Taylor ran about jubilantly, returning every few moments to pat Keith on the
shoulder.

"Fine! fine!" he cried. "We've got those Eurekas! I can't wait for morning!"

XV

Keith got home about daylight to find Nan, terribly anxious, waiting up for him. He brushed
away her anxiety with the usual masculine impatience at being made a fuss over, gave a brief
account of the fire--omitting mention of his narrow escape--and insisted that she go to bed.
After a few moments she obeyed, and immediately fell asleep. Keith bathed himself and changed,
made a cup of coffee, and wandered about rather impatiently waiting for time to go downtown.
Wing Sam appeared, the morning paper came. The sun gained strength, and finally tempted him
outside.

For some time he prowled around, examining Nan's efforts at gardening. There was not much to
show as yet, but Keith had already the eye of faith so essential to the Californian, and saw
plainly trees, shrubs, and flowers where now only spears of green were visible. The Morrells'
garden next door was already well grown, and he cast on it an appraising eye. No sign of life
showed about the place except a thread of smoke from the kitchen chimney. It was still early.

Nevertheless, five minutes later Mrs. Morrell opened the side door and stepped forth. She had
on a wide leghorn hat, and carried a basket and scissors as though to gather flowers. Immediately
she caught sight of Keith and waved him a gay greeting. He vaulted the fence and joined her.

"Aren't these early morning hours perfect? Isn't this glorious sunshine?" she greeted him.

As a matter of fact Mrs. Morrell seldom rose before noon, and detested early morning hours
and glorious sunshine. She was inclined to consider the usual remarks in their praise as sheer
affectation. But she adored fires, and often went to them when they promised well enough. Sometimes
she attended in company with certain of her men friends; and sometimes alone, cloaked as a
man. She liked the destruction and stimulation of them. She had been to the fire just extinguished,
and seeing Keith in the garden, had put on her fluffiest and gone out to him. It was time this
most attractive young man next door paid her more attention.

"How does the hero of the fire survive?" she asked him archly.

"Hero?"

"Don't pretend ignorance. Charles told me all about it. He heard your tale at the Monumental."

"It's hardly heroism to get out of a scrape the best way possible."

"It's heroic to save lives, I think; but especially heroic to keep your head in an emergency."

"Mr. Morrell all right?" asked Keith, to change the subject.

"He is sleeping off the fire--and the after effects. You men need watching every minute--even
when we think you must be in danger of your lives."

She laughed and clipped a few flowers at random.

"Have you been moving furniture all these days? We've seen nothing of you. I thought we were
going to have some music. I do my little five-finger exercises all by myself and nobody knows
but I am playing Beethoven. You ought in Christian charity to help me out--whether you want
to or not. What do you think of our garden? Don't you adore flowers?"

"No, I don't believe I do," replied Keith bluntly. "I like to see a pretty woman amongst 'em,"
he went on gallantly, "they set her off. It's like dresses. No good to show me pretty frocks--unless
they're filled."

"La! You are so clever; at times I'm really afraid of you," said she.

She went on tossing a few blooms into her basket. Under the stimulus of the fire she had acted
on impulse in going out into the garden. She realized it as perhaps a mistake. Keith's early
morning freshness and fitness made her feel less sure of herself than usual. She had an uneasy
impression that she was not at her best, and this reacted on her ability to exercise her usual
magnetism. In fact, Keith, the least observant of men in such things, could not avoid noticing
her rather second-hand looking skin, and that her features were more pronounced than he had
thought.

"Do come over this evening for some music," she begged. "You can take a nap this afternoon,
and you can go home early."

Keith had been just a little uneasy over this second interview with Mrs. Morrell. His straightforward
nature was inclined to look back on the impression she had made on him at the supper party
with a half-guilty sense of some sort of vague disloyalty he could not formulate. Now he felt
much satisfied with himself, and quite relieved. Therefore, he accepted.

"I shall be very glad to," said he.

At breakfast, which was rather late, he told Nan of the meeting and the invitation. Nan's clear
lines, fresh creamy skin, bright young eyes, looked more than usually attractive to him.

"Perhaps she can play," he said. "Let's go find out. And you must wear your prettiest gown;
I'm proud of my wife, and I want her to look her very best."

A little later he remarked:

"I wonder if she isn't considerably older than Morrell."

XVI

When he had at last reached downtown after his late breakfast, Keith found it in a fair turmoil.
Knots of men stood everywhere arguing, sometimes very heatedly. Eureka members were openly
expressing their anger over what they called Taylor's "dirty trick" in putting hirelings on
the brakes, men who did not belong to the Monumental organization at all. If it had not been
for that the Monumentals could never have "sucked" at all. On the other hand, the Monumentals
and their friends were vehemently asserting that they were well within their rights. Fists
were brandished. Several fights started, but were stopped before they had become serious.

Keith avoided these storm centres, waving a friendly hand, but smilingly refusing to be drawn
in. Near the Merchants' Exchange, however, he came on a quieter, attentive group, in the centre
of which stood Calhoun Bennett. The Southerner's head was thrown back haughtily, but he was
listening with entire courtesy to a violent harangue from a burly, red-faced man in rough clothes.

"And I tell you that sort of a trick won't go down with nobody, and the story of why you were
washed won't wash itself. It's too thin."

"I have the honah, suh," said Bennett formally, "to info'm yo' that yo' do not know what yo'
are talkin' about."

His silken tones apparently enraged the man.

"You silk-stockinged----of a----!" said he.

Without haste Calhoun Bennett rapped the man across the face with his light rattan cane. Venting
a howl of rage, the Eureka partisan leaped forward. Calhoun Bennett, quick as a flash, drew
a small derringer and fired; and the man went down in a heap. Superbly nonchalant, Bennett,
without a glance at his victim, turned away, the ring of spectators parting to let him through.
He saw Keith, and at once joined him, drawing the young man's arm through his own. Keith, looking
back, saw the man already sitting up, feeling his shoulder and cursing vigorously.

Bennett was fairly radiating rage, which, however, he managed to suppress beneath a well-bred
exterior calm.

"These hounds, suh," he told Keith, "profess not to believe us, suh! They profess, suh, that
our explanation of how we were washed is a fabrication. You will oblige me, suh, by profferin'
yo' personal testimony in the case."

He faced Keith resolutely toward the Eureka engine house. Keith spared a thought to wonder
what he was being let in for by this handsome young fire- eater, but he went along unprotesting.

Around the Eureka engine house was a big crowd of men. These fell silent as Bennett and Keith
approached. The Eurekas represented quite a different social order from the Monumentals. Its
membership was recruited from those who in the East had been small farmers, artisans, or workingmen
in the more skilled trades; independent, plain, rather rough, thoroughly democratic, a trifle
contemptuous of "silk stockings," outspoken, with little heed for niceties of etiquette or
conduct. Bennett pushed his way through them to where stood Carter, the chief, and several
of the more influential. Keith, looking at them, met their eyes directed squarely into his.
They were steady, clear-looking, solid, rather coarse-grained, grave men.

"I have brought Mr. Keith here, who was an eyewitness, to give his testimony as to the events
of last evenin'," said Bennett formally.

Keith told his story. It was received in a blank noncommittal silence. The men all looked at
him steadily, and said nothing. Somehow, he was impressed. This silence seemed to him, fancifully,
more than mere lack of words--it conveyed a sense of reserve force, of quiet appraisal of himself
and his words, of the experiences of men who have been close to realities, who have done things
in the world. Keith felt himself to be better educated, to own a better brain, to have a wider
outlook, to be possessed, in short, of all the advantages of superiority. He had never mingled
with rough men, and he had always looked down on them. In this attitude was no condescension
and no priggishness, Now he felt, somehow, that the best of these men had something that he
had not suspected, some force of character that raised them above his previous conception.
They might be more than mere "filling" in a city's population; they might well come to be an
element to be reckoned with.

When he had quite finished his story, there ensued a slight pause. Then said Carter:

"We believe Mr. Keith. If Mr. Ward and Frank Munro were there, of course there can be no doubt."
Somehow Keith could not resent the implication; it was too impersonally delivered. Carter went
on with cold formality and emphasis; "Mr. Keith had a very narrow escape. It was lucky for
him that your hired men had 'sucked' your waterbox. In view of that we can, of course, no longer
regret the fact."

"It was a dirty trick just the same!" growled a voice out of the crowd.

Carter turned a deliberate look in that direction, and nothing more was said. Bennett ignored
the interruption, bowed frigidly, and turned away. The Eureka leaders nodded. In dead silence
Keith and Bennett withdrew.

"That settles that!" observed Bennett, when at a little distance. "A lot of cheap shopkeepers!
It makes me disgusted every time I have anythin' to do with them!"

As they walked away, one of the hangers-on of the police court approached, touching his hat.

"For you, Mr. Bennett," he said most respectfully, proffering a paper.

"Me?" observed Bennett, surprised. He unfolded the paper, glanced at it, and laughed. "I'm
arrested for wingin' that 'shoulder-striker' up the street a while back," he told Keith.

"Anything I can do?" asked Keith anxiously.

"Not a thing, thank you. There'll be no trouble at all--just a little nuisance. May call you
for a witness later."

He went away with the officer, but shortly after Keith saw him on the street again. The matter
had been easily arranged.

Keith went to his office. In spite of himself he could not entirely take Bennett's point of
view. Several of the men at Eureka headquarters looked interesting--he would like to know them--perhaps
more than interesting, the potentiality of a reasoning and directed power.

XVII

The afternoon nap suggested by Mrs. Morrell was not enjoyed, and Keith returned home feeling
pretty tired and inclined to a quiet evening. Nan had to remind him of his engagement.

"Oh, let's send a note over by Wing," he said, a little crossly. "I don't feel like making
an effort to-night."

But Nan's convention could not approve of anything quite so radically a last-minute decision.

"It's a little late in the day for that," she pointed out. "She may have stayed in just to
see us. We can leave early."

Keith went, grumbling. They found Mrs. Morrell in full evening dress, showing her neck and
shoulders, which were her best points, for she was full bosomed and rounded without losing
firmness of flesh. Nan was a trifle taken back at this gorgeousness, for she had not dressed.
Keith, with his usual directness, made no secret of pretending to be utterly overwhelmed.

"I didn't know we were expected to dress for a real concert with flowers!" he cried, laughing.

Mrs. Morrell shrugged her fine shoulders indifferently.

"This old rag!" she said. "Don't let that bother you. I always like to put on something cool
for the evening. It's such a relief."

It developed that Morrell had an engagement, and could not stay.

"He was so disappointed," purred Mrs. Morrell.

She was all eager for the music, brushing aside this and other preliminaries.

"You play, sing?" she asked Nan. "What a pity! I'm afraid you're going to be terribly bored."

She turned instantly to Keith, hurrying him to the piano, giving the impression of being too
eager to wait--almost the eagerness of a drunkard in the presence of drink. And this in turn
conveyed a vibrating feeling of magnetism, of temperament under restraint, of possibilities
veiled. The impact struck Keith's responsive nature full. He waked up, approached the piano
with reviving interest. She struck idle chords and flashed at him over her shoulder a brilliant
smile.

"What shall it be?" she demanded, still with the undercurrent of eagerness. "You choose--a
man's song--something soulful. I'm just in the mood."

"Do you know the 'Bedouin Love Song?'" he inquired.

"The 'Bedouin Love Song?' No--I'm afraid not. We are so far out of the world."

"It's a new thing. It goes like this."

He hummed the air, and she followed it hesitatingly, feeling out the accompaniment. Mrs. Morrell
knew her instrument and had a quick ear. Occasionally Keith leaned over her shoulder to strike
for her an elusive chord or modulation. In so doing he had to press close, and for all his
honest absorption in the matter at hand, could not help becoming aware of her subtle perfume,
the shine of her flesh, and the brightness of her crown of hair.

"You play it," she said suddenly.

But he disclaimed the ability.

"I don't know it any better than you do, and you improvise wonderfully."

They became entirely absorbed in this most fascinating of tasks, the working out little by
little of a complicated accompaniment.

"There!" she cried gayly at last. "I believe I have it. Let's try."

Keith had a strong smooth baritone, not too well trained, but free from glaring faults and
mannerisms. It filled the little drawing-room ringingly. He liked the song, and he sang it
with fire and a certain defiance that suited it. At its conclusion Mrs. Morrell sprang to her
feet, breathing quickly, her usual hard, quick artificiality of manner quite melted.

"It's wonderful!" she cried. "It lifts one right up! It makes me feel I'd run away----" She
checked herself abruptly, and turned to where Nan sat in an armchair outside the circle of
light, "Don't you just adore it?" she asked in a more restrained manner, and turned back to
Keith, who was standing a little flushed and excited by the song, "You have just the voice
for it--with that vibrating deep quality." She reseated herself at the piano and struck several
loud chords. Under cover of them she added, half under her breath, as though to herself, but
distinctly audible to the man at her shoulder; "Luck for us all that you are already taken."

Keith would have been no more than human if he had not followed this cue with a look. She did
not lower her eyes, but gave him back his gaze directly. It was as though some secret understanding
sprang up between them, though Keith,--in half-angry confusion, could not have analyzed it.

After this they compared notes until they found several songs they both knew. Mrs. Morrell
brushed aside Keith's suggestion that she herself should sing, but she did it in a way that
left the implication that he was the important one vocally.

"No, no! I've been starved too long. I'm as tired of my little reed of a voice as of the tinkle
of a musical box."

The close of the evening was brought about only by the return of Morrell from his engagement.
Keith had utterly forgotten his fatigue, and was tingling with the enthusiasm to which his
nature always rose under stimulus. The Englishman, very self-contained, clean-cut, incisive,
brought a new atmosphere. He was cordial and polite, but not expansive. Keith came down from
the clouds. He remembered, with compunction, Nan sitting in the armchair, the lateness of the
hour, his own fatigue.

"You should hear Mr. Keith's new song, Charley," said Mrs, Morrell. "It's the most wonderful
thing! The 'Bedouin Love Song,' You must surely sing it at the Firemen's Ball. It will make
a great hit. No, you surely must. With a voice like yours it is selfish not to use it for the
benefit of all. Don't you agree with me, Mrs. Keith?"

"I'll sing it, if you will play my accompaniment," said Keith.

On their way home Keith's enthusiasm bubbled up again.

"Isn't it great luck to find somebody to practise with?" he cried-- "Unexpected luck in a place
like this! I wish you cared for music."

"Oh, I do," said Nan. "I love it. But I just can't do it, that's all."

"Did you like it to-night?"

"I liked it when you really sang" replied Nan with a little yawn, "but it always took you such
a time to get at it."

A short silence fell.

"Are you really going to sing at the Firemen's Ball?" she asked curiously.

"I haven't been asked yet," he reminded her. "Don't you think it a good idea?"

"Oh, I don't know," said Nan, but her voice had a little edge. Keith felt it, and made the
usual masculine blunder. He stopped short, thunderstruck at a new idea.

"Why, Nan," he cried reproachfully, "I don't believe you like her!"

"Like her!" she flashed back, her anger leaping to unreasonable proportions--"that old frump!"

No sooner had the door closed after them than Morrell's conventional smile faded, and his countenance
fell into its usual hard, cold impassivity.

"Well, what is the game there?" he demanded.

"There is no game," she replied indifferently.

"There is very little money there, I warn you," he persisted.

She turned on him with sudden fury.

"Oh, shut up!" she cried. "I know my own business!"

"And I know mine," he told her, slowly and dangerously. "And I warn you to go slow unless I
give the word."

She stared at him a moment, and he stared back. Then, quite deliberately, she walked over to
him until her breast almost touched him. Her eyes were half closed, and a little smile parted
her full lips.

"Charley," she drawled wickedly, "I warn you to go slow. And I warn you not to interfere with
me--or I might interfere with you!"

Morrell shrugged his shoulders, and turned away with an assumption of indifference.

"Please yourself. But I can't afford a scandal just now."

"You can't afford a scandal!" she cried, and laughed hardly.

"Not just now," he repeated.

XVIII

Perhaps this unwise antagonizing by her husband, perhaps the idleness with which the well-to-do
woman was afflicted, perhaps a genuine liking for Keith, gave Mrs. Morrell just the impulse
needed. At any rate, she used the common bond of music to bring him much into her company.
This was not a difficult matter. Keith was extravagantly fond of just this sort of experimental
amateur excursions into lighter music, and he liked Mrs. Morrell. She was a good sort, straightforward
and honest and direct, no nonsense in her, but she knew her way about, and a man could have
a sort of pleasing, harmless flirtation to which she knew how to play up. There was not, nor
could there be--in Keith's mind--any harm in their relations. Nan was the woman for him; but
that didn't mean that he was never to see anybody else, or that other women might not--of course
in unessential and superficial ways--answer some of his varied needs.

Mrs. Morrell was skilful at keeping up his interest, and she was equally skilful in gradually
excluding Nan. This was not difficult, for Nan was secretly bored by the eternal practising,
and repelled by Mrs. Morrell's efforts to be fascinating. She saw them plainly enough, but
was at first merely amused and faintly disgusted, for she was proud enough to believe absolutely
that such crude methods could have no effect on Milton, overlooking the fact that the crudities
of women never appear as plainly to a man as they do to another woman. For a woman is in the
know. At first she offered one excuse or another, in an attempt to be both polite and plausible.
She much preferred a book at home, or a whole free evening to work at making her house attractive.
Later, Keith got into the habit of taking her attitude for granted.

"I promised to run over to the Morrells' this evening," he would say, "More music. Of course
you won't care to come. You won't be lonely? I won't be gone late."

"Of course not," she laughed. "I'm thankful for the chance to get through with the blue room."

Nevertheless, after a time she began to experience a faint, unreasonable resentment; and Keith
an equally faint, equally unreasonable feeling of guilt.

Left to itself this situation would, therefore, have righted itself, but Mrs. Morrell was keen
enough to give it the required directing touches:

"Too bad we can't tear your wife away from her house and garden."

"If you only had some one to practise with regularly at home! Your voice ought to be systematically
cultivated. It is wonderful!"

And later:

"You ought not to come here so much, I suppose--" rather doubtfully, "Any sort of practice
and accompaniment--even my poor efforts--does you so much good! You or I would understand perfectly,
but it is sometimes so difficult for the inexperienced domestic type to comprehend! An older
woman who understands men knows--but come, we must sing that once more."

The effect of these and a thousand similar speeches injected apparently at random here and
there in the tide of other things was at once to intensify Keith's vague feeling of guilt,
and to put it in the light somehow of an injustice to himself. He had an unformulated notion
that if Nan would or could only understand the situation and be a good fellow that every one
would be happy; but as she was a mere woman, with a woman's prejudices, this was impossible.
It was absurd to expect him to give up his music just because she wanted to be different! He
had really nothing whatever to conceal; and yet it actually seemed that difficulty and concealment
would be necessary if this sort of unspoken reproach were kept up. Women were so confoundedly
single-minded!

And as the normal, healthy, non-introspective male tends to avoid discomfort, even of his own
making, it thus came about that Keith spent less and less time at home. He did not explain
to himself why. It was certainly no lessening of his affection for Nan. Only he felt absolutely
sure of her, and the mental situation sketched above left him more open to the lure of downtown,
which to any live man was in those days especially great. Every evening the "fellows" got together,
jawed things over, played pool, had a drink or so, wandered from one place to another, looked
with the vivid interest of the young and able-bodied on the seething, colourful, vital life
of the new community. It was all harmless and mighty pleasant. Keith argued that he was "establishing
connections" and meeting men who could do his profession good, which was more or less true;
but it took him from home evenings.

Nan, at first, quite innocently played into his hands. She really preferred to stay at home
rather than be bored at the Morrells'. Later, when this tradition had been established, she
began to be disturbed, not by any suspicion that Milton's interest was straying, but by a feeling
of neglect. She was hurt. And little by little, in spite of herself, a jealousy of the woman
next door began to tinge her solitude. Her nature was too noble and generous to harbour such
a sentiment without a struggle. She blamed herself for unworthy and wretched jealousy, and
yet she could not help herself. Often, especially at first, Keith in an impulse would throw
over his plans, and ask her to go to the theatre or a concert, of which there were many and
excellent. She generally declined, not because she did not want to go, but because of that
impelling desire, universal in the feminine soul, to be a little wooed to it, to be compelled
by gentle persuasion that should at once make up for the past and be an earnest for the future.
Only Keith took her refusal at its face value. Nan was lonely and hurt.

Her refusals to respond to his rather spasmodic attempts to be nice to her were adopted by
Keith's subconscious needs for comfort. If she didn't want to see anything of life, she shouldn't
expect him to bury himself. His restless mind gradually adopted the fiction persistently held
before him by Mrs. Morrell that his wife was indeed a domestic little body, fond only of her
home and garden. As soon as he had hypnotized himself into the full acceptance of this, he
felt much happier, His uneasiness fell from him, and he continued life with zest. If any one
had told him that he was neglecting Nan, he probably would have been surprised. They were busy;
they met amicably; there were no reproaches; they managed to get about and enjoy things together
quite a lot.

The basis for the latter illusion rested on the Sunday excursions and picnics. Both the Keiths
always attended them. There was invariably the same crowd--the Morrells; Dick Blatchford, the
contractor, and his fat, coarse-grained, good-natured Irish wife; Calhoun Bennett; Ben Sansome:
Sally Warner, a dashing grass widow, whose unknown elderly husband seemed to be always away
"at the mines"; Teeny McFarlane, small, dainty, precise, blond, exquisite, cool, with very
self-possessed manners and decided ways, but with the capacity for occasionally and with deliberation
outdoing the worst of them, about whom were whispered furtive things the rumour of which died
before her armoured front; her husband, a fat, jolly, round-faced, somewhat pop-eyed man who
adored her and was absolutely ignorant of one side of her. These and a sprinkling of "fast"
youths made the party. Sometimes the celebrated Sam Brannan went along, loud, coarse, shrewd,
bull voiced, kindly when not crossed, unscrupulous, dictatorial, and overbearing, They all
got to know each other very well and to be very free in one another's society,

The usual procedure was to drive in buggies, sometimes to the beach, sometimes down the peninsula,
starting rather early, and staying out all day. Occasionally rather elaborate lunches were
brought, with servants to spread them; but the usual custom was to stop at one of the numerous
road houses. No man drove, walked, or talked with his own wife; nevertheless, these affairs
though rowdy, noisy, and "fast" enough, were essentially harmless. The respectable members
of the community were sufficiently shocked, however. Gay dresses, gay laughter, gay behaviour,
gay scorn of convention, above all, the resort to the mysterious naughty road houses were enough.
It must be confessed that at times things seemed to go a bit far; but Nan, who was at first
bewildered and shocked, noticed that the women did many things in public and nothing in private.
As already her mind and tolerance were adapting themselves to new things, she was able to accept
it all philosophically as part of a new phase of life.

These people had no misgivings about themselves, and they passed judgment on others with entire
assurance. In their slang all with whom they came into contact were either "hearses" or "live
Mollies." There was nothing racial, local, or social in this division. A family might be divided,
one member being a live Molly, and all the rest the most dismal of hearses. Occasionally a
stranger might be brought along. He did not know it, but always he was very carefully watched
and appraised: his status discussed and decided at the supper to which the same people--minus
all strangers-- gathered later. At one of these discussions a third estate came into being.

Teeny McFarlane had that day brought with her a young man of about twenty- four or twenty-five,
well dressed, of pleasant features, agreeable in manner, well spoken, but quiet.

"He isn't a live Molly," stated Sally positively.

"Well, Sally took a walk with him," observed Sam Brannan dryly; "she ought to know!"

"Don't need to take a walk with him," countered Sally; "just take a talk with him--or try to.".

"I did try to," interpolated Mrs. Morrell.

"May as well make it unanimous, looks like," said Sam. "He goes for a hearse."

But Teeny McFarlane interposed in her positive, precise little way.

"I object," she drawled. "He certainly isn't as bad as all that. He's a nice boy, and he never
bored anybody in his life. Did he bore you, Sally?"

"I can't say he did, now you mention it. He's one of those nice doggy people you don't mind
having around."

They discussed the matter animatedly. Teeny McFarlane developed an unexpected obstinacy. She
did not suggest that the young man was to be included in any of the future parties; indeed,
she answered the direct question decidedly in the negative; no, there was no use trying to
include anybody unless they decidedly "belonged."

"You wouldn't call him a live Molly, now would you, Teeny?" implored Cal Bennett.

"No," she answered slowly, "I suppose not. But he is not a hearse."

The men, all but Popsy McFarlane, were inspecting Teeny's cool, unrevealing exterior with covert
curiosity. She was always an enigma to them. Each man was asking himself why her interest in
the mere labelling of this stranger.

"He isn't a live Molly and she objects to his being a hearse," laughed Sally. "He must be something
between them. What," she inquired, with the air of propounding a conundrum, "is between a live
Molly and a hearse?"

"Give it up!" they cried unanimously.

Sally looked nonplussed, then shrieked: "Why, the pallbearers, of course!"

The silly phrase caught. Thereafter, those who were acknowledged to be all right enough but
not of their feather were known as "pallbearers."

The Keiths were live Mollies. He was decidedly one. His appearance alone inspired good nature
and high spirits, he looked so clean, vividly coloured, enthusiastic, alive to his finger tips.
He was always game for anything, no matter how ridiculous it made him, or in what sort of a
so- called false position it might place him. When he had reached a certain state of dancing-eyed
joyous recklessness, Nan was always athrill as to what he might do next. And Nan, spite of
her quieter ways and the reserves imposed on her by her breeding, was altogether too pretty
and too much of a real person ever to be classed as a hearse. With her ravishing Eastern toilettes,
her clear, creamy complexion, and the clean-cut lines of her throat, chin, and cheeks, she
always made the other women look a little too vividly accented. The men all admired her on
sight, and at first did their best to interest her. They succeeded, for in general they were
of vital stuff, but not in the intimately personal way they desired. Her nature found no thrill
in experiment. One by one they gave her up in the favour of less attractive but livelier or
more complaisant companions; but they continued to like her and to pay her much general attention.
She never, in any nuance of manner, even tried to make a difference; nevertheless, their attitude
toward her was always more deferential than to the other women.

Ben Sansome was the one exception to the first part of the above statement. Her gentle but
obvious withdrawals from his advances piqued his conceit. Ben was a spoiled youth, with plenty
of money; and he had always been a spoiled youth, with plenty of money. Why he had come to
San Francisco no one knew. Possibly he did not know himself; for as his affairs had always
been idle, he had drifted much, and might have drifted here. Whatever the reason, the fact
remained that in this busy, new, and ambitious community he was the one example professionally
of the gilded youth. His waistcoats, gloves, varnished boots, jewellery, handkerchiefs were
always patterns to the other amateur, gilded youths who had also other things to do. His social
tact was enormous, and a recognized institution. If there had been cotillons, he would have
led them; but as there were no cotillons, he contented himself with being an arbiter elegantiarum.
He rather prided himself on his knowledge of such things as jades, old prints, and obscure
poets of whom nobody else had ever heard. Naturally he had always been a great success with
women, both as harmless parlour ornaments, and in more dangerous ways. In San Francisco he
had probably carried farther than he would have carried anywhere else. He had sustained no
serious reverses, because difficult game had not heretofore interested him. Entering half interestedly
with Nan into what he vaguely intended as one of his numerous, harmless, artistic, perfumed
flirtationlets, he had found himself unexpectedly held at arm's length. Just this was needed
to fillip his fancy. He went into the game as a game. Sansome made himself useful. By dint
of being on hand whenever Keith's carelessness had left her in need of an escort, and only
then, he managed to establish himself on a recognized footing as a sort of privileged, charming,
useful, harmless family friend.

Outside this small, rather lively coterie the Keiths had very few friends. It must be confessed
that the mothers of the future leaders of San Francisco society, and the bearers of what were
to be her proudest names, were mostly "hearses." Their husbands were the forceful, able men
of the city, but they themselves were conventional as only conventional women can be when goaded
into it by a general free-and-easy, unconventional atmosphere. That was their only method of
showing disapproval. The effect was worthy but dull. It was a pity, for among them were many
intelligent, charming women who needed only a different atmosphere, to expand. The Keiths never
saw them, and gained their ideas of them only from the merciless raillery of the "live Mollies."

All this implied more or less entertaining, and entertaining was expensive. The Boyle house
was expensive for that matter; and about everything else, save Chinese servants, and, temporarily,
whatever the latest clipper ship had glutted the market with. Keith had brought with him a
fair sum of money with which to make his start; but under this constant drainage, it dwindled
to what was for those times a comparatively small sum. Clients did not come. There were more
men practising law than all the other professions. In spite of wide acquaintance and an attractive
popular personality, Keith had not as yet made a start. He did not worry--that was not his
nature--but he began to realize that he must do one of two things: either make some money,
somehow, or give up his present mode of living. The latter course was unthinkable!

XIX

One morning Keith was sitting in his office cogitating these things. His door opened and a
meek, mild little wisp of a man sidled in. He held his hat in his hand, revealing clearly sandy
hair and a narrow forehead. His eyebrows and lashes were sandy, his eyes pale blue, his mouth
weak but obstinate. On invitation he seated himself on the edge of the chair, and laid his
hat carefully beside him on the floor.

"I am Dr. Jacob Jones," he said, blinking at Keith. "You have heard of me?"

"I am afraid I have not," said Keith pleasantly.

The little man sighed.

"I have held the City Hospital contract for three years," he explained, "and they owe me a
lot of money. I thought you might collect some of it."

"I think if you'd put in a claim through the usual channels you'd receive your dues," advised
Keith, somewhat puzzled. He had not heard that the city was refusing to pay legitimate claims.

"I've done that, and they've given me these," said Doctor Jones, handing Keith a bundle of papers.

Keith glanced at them.

"This is 'scrip,'" he said. "It's perfectly good. When the city is without current funds it
issues this scrip, bearing interest at 3 per cent. a month. It's all right."

"Yes, I know," said the little man ineffectually, "but I don't want scrip."

Keith ran it over. It amounted to something like eleven thousand dollars.

"What do you want done about it?" he asked,

"I want you to collect the money for me."

But Keith, had recollected something.

"Just wait a minute, please," he begged, and darted across the hall to a friend's office, returning
after a moment with a file of legislative reports. "I thought I'd heard something about it;
here it is. The State Legislature has voted an issue of 10 per cent. bonds to take up the scrip."

"I don't understand," said Doctor Jones.

"Why, you take your scrip to the proper official and exchange it for an equal value of State
bonds."

"But what good does that do me?" cried Jones excitedly. "It doesn't get me my money. They don't
guarantee I can sell the bonds at par, do they? And answer me this: isn't it just a scheme
to cheat me of my interest? As I understand it, instead of 3 per cent. a month I'm to get 10
per cent. a year?"

"That's the effect," corroborated Keith.

"Well, I don't want bonds, I want money, as is my due."

"Wait a minute," said Keith. He read the report again slowly. "This says that holders of scrip
may exchange, for bonds; it does not say they must exchange," he said finally. "If that interpretation
is made of the law, suit and judgment would lie against the city. Do you want to try that?"

"Of course I want to try it!" cried Jones.

"Well, bring me your contract and vouchers, and any other papers to do with the case, and I'll
see what can be done."

"I have them right here," said Doctor Jones.

This, as Keith's first case, interested him more than its intrinsic worth warranted. It amused
him to bring all his powers to bear, fighting strongly for the technical point, and finally
establishing it in court. In spite of the evident intention of the Legislature that city scrip
should be retired in favour of bonds, it was ruled that the word may in place of the word must
practically nullified that intention. Judgment was obtained against the city for eleven thousand
dollars, and the sheriff was formally instructed to sell certain water-front lots in order
to satisfy that judgment. The sale was duly advertised in the papers.

Next morning, after the first insertion of this advertisement, Keith had three more callers.
These were men of importance: namely, John Geary, the first postmaster and last alcalde of
the new city; William Hooper, and James King of William, at that time still a banker. These
were grave, solid, and weighty citizens, plainly dressed, earnest, and forceful. They responded
politely but formally to Keith's salute, and seated themselves.

"You were, I understand, counsel for Doctor Jones in obtaining judgment on the hospital scrip?"
inquired Geary.

"That is correct," acknowledged Keith.

"We have called to inform you of a fact that perhaps escaped your notice: namely, that these
gentlemen and myself have been appointed by the Legislature as commissioners to manage the
funded debt of the city; that, for that purpose, title of all city lands has been put in our
hands."

"No, I did not know that," said Keith.

"Therefore, you see," went on Geary, "the sheriff cannot pass title to any lots that might
be sold to satisfy Doctor Jones's judgment."

Keith pondered, his alert mind seizing with avidity on this new and interesting situation.

"No, I cannot quite see that," he said at last; "the actual title is in the city. It owns its
property. You gentlemen do not claim to own it, as individuals. You have delegated to you the
power to pass title, just as the sheriff and one or two others have that power; but you have
not the sole power."

"We have advice that title conveyed under this judgment will be invalid."

"That is a matter for the courts to settle."

"The courts----" began Hooper explosively, but Geary overrode him.

"If all the creditors of the city were to adopt the course pursued by Doctor Jones, the city
would soon be bankrupt of resources."

"That is true," agreed Keith.

"Then cannot I appeal to your sense of civic patriotism?"

"Gentlemen," replied Keith, "you seem to forget that in this matter I am not acting for myself,
but for a client. If it were my affair, I might feel inclined to discuss the matter with you
more in detail. But I am only an agent."

"But----" interrupted Hooper again.

"That is quite true," interjected James King of William.

"Well, we shall see your client," went on Geary, "But I might state that on the side of his
own best interests he would do well to go slow. There is at least a considerable doubt as to
the legality of this sale. It is unlikely that people will care to bid."

After some further polite conversation they took their leave. Keith quickly discovered that
the opinion held by the commissioners was shared by most of his friends. They acknowledged
the brilliance of his legal victory, admired it heartily, and congratulated him; but they considered
that victory barren.

"Nobody will buy; you won't get two bits a lot bid," they all told him.

Little Doctor Jones came to him much depressed. The commissioners had talked with him.

"Do you want my advice?" asked Keith, "Then do this: stick to your guns."

But little Jones was scared.

"I want my money," said he; "perhaps I'd better take those bonds after all."

"Look here," suddenly said Keith, who had been making up his mind. "I'll guarantee you the
full amount in cash, within, say, two weeks, but only on this condition: that you go out now,
and spread it about everywhere that you are going to stand pat. Tell 'em all you are going
to push through this sale."

"How do I know----"

"Take a chance," interrupted Keith. "If at the end of two weeks I don't pay you cash, you can
do what you please. Call off the sheriff's sale at the last minute; I'll pay the costs myself.
Come, that's fair enough. You can't lose a cent."

"All right," agreed Jones after a minute.

"Remember: it's part of the bargain that you state everywhere that you're going to force this
sale, and that you don't let anybody bluff you."

The affair made quite a little stir. Men like Sam Brannan, Dick Blatchford, the contractor,
and Jim Polk discussed Keith and his ability.

"Got a pretty wife, too," added Brannan. "--never heard of the fall of man."

"Well, she's going to, if the Morrell woman has her way," observed Ben Sansome dryly.

Polk stretched his long legs, and smiled his desiccated little smile.

"He's a pretty enterprising youngster--more ways than one," said he.

XX

On the evening of the third day after his latest interview with Doctor Jones, Keith threw down
his paper with a cry of triumph. He had been scanning the columns of every issue with minute
care, combing even the fine print for the auctioneer's advertisements. Here was what he wanted:
top of column, third page, where every one would be sure to see it. The commissioners issued
a signed statement, calling public attention to the details of their appointment, and warning
that titles issued under sheriff's sale would be considered invalid.

Keith read this with great attention, then drew his personal check against Palmer, Cook & Co.
for eleven thousand dollars in favour of Doctor Jones. After some search he unearthed the little
man in a downtown rookery, and from him obtained an assignment of his judgment against the
city. Doctor Jones lost no time spreading the news, with the additional statement that he considered
himself well out of the mess. He proceeded to order himself a long-coveted microscope, and
was thenceforth lost to sight among low-tide rocks and marine algae. The sheriff's sale came
off at the advertised date. There were no bidders; the commissioners' warning had had its effect.
Keith himself bought in the lots for $5,000. This check about exhausted his resources. This,
less costs, was, of course, paid back to himself as holder of the judgment. He had title, such
as it was, for about what he had given Jones.

The bargain amused Keith's acquaintance hugely. Whenever he appeared he was deluged with chaff,
all of which he took, good naturedly. He was considered, in a moment of aberration, to have
bought an exceedingly doubtful equity. Some thought, he must have a great deal of money, arguing
that only the owner of a fat bank account could afford to take such fliers; others considered
that he must have very little sense. Keith was apparently unperturbed. He at once began to
look about him, considering the next step in his scheme. Since this investment had taken nearly
every cent he had left, it was incumbent to raise more money at once.

He called on John Sherwood at the Empire. The gambler listened to him attentively.

"I can't go into it," he said, when Keith had finished. A slight smile sketched itself on his
strong, impassive face. "Not that I do not believe it will work; I think it will. But I have
long made it a rule never to try to make money outside my own business--which is gambling.
I never adopt ordinary honest methods."

Keith's honest but legally trained mind failed to notice the quiet sarcasm of this. "Well,
you know everybody in town. Where can I go?"

Sherwood thought a moment.

"I'll take you to Malcolm Neil," he said at last. It was Keith's turn to look thoughtful.

"All right," he said at last. "But not just right away. Give me a couple of days to get ready."

At the appointed time Sherwood escorted Keith to Malcolm Neil's office, introduced and left
him. Keith took the proffered wooden chair, examining his man with the keenest attention.

Malcolm Neil, spite of his Scotch name, was a New Englander by birth. He had come out in '49,
intending, like everybody else, to go to the mines, but had never gone farther than San Francisco.
The new city offered ample scope for his talents, and he speedily became, not only rich, but
a dominating personality among financial circles. He accomplished this by supplementing his
natural ability with absolute singleness of purpose. It was known that his sole idea was the
making of money. He was reputed to be hard, devoid of sentiment, unscrupulous. Naturally he
enjoyed no popularity, but a vast respect. More people had heard of him, or felt his power,
than had seen him; for he went little abroad, and preferred to work through agents. John Sherwood's
service in obtaining for Keith a personal interview was a very real one. Neil's offices were
small, dingy, and ill lighted, at the back of one of the older and cheaper buildings. In the
outer of the two were three bookkeepers; the other contained only a desk, two chairs, and an
engraving of Daniel Webster addressing the Senate.

The man himself sat humped over slightly, his head thrust a little forward as though on the
point of launching a truculent challenge. He was lean, gray, with bushy, overhanging brows,
eyes with glinting metallic surfaces, had long sinewy hands, and a carved granite and inscrutable
face, His few words of greeting revealed his voice as harsh, grating and domineering.

Keith, reading his man, wasted no time in preliminaries.

"Mr. Neil," he said, "I have a scheme by which a great deal of money can be made."

Neil grunted. If it had not been for the fact that John Sherwood had introduced the maker of
that speech, the interview would have here terminated. Malcolm Neil deeply distrusted men with
schemes to make large sums of money. After a time, as Keith still waited, he growled;

"What is it?"

"That," said Keith, "I shall not disclose until my standing in the matter is assured."

"What do you want?" growled Neil.

"Fifty per cent of the profits, if you go in."

"What do you want of me?"

"The capital."

"What is the scheme?"

"That I cannot tell you without some assurance of your good intention."

"What do you expect?" rasped Neil, "that I go into this blind?"

"I have prepared this paper," said Keith, handing him a document.

Neil glanced over the paper, then read it through slowly, with great care. When he had finished,
he looked up at Keith, and there was a gleam of admiration in his frosty eye.

"You are a lawyer, I take it?" he surmised.

Keith nodded. Neil went over the document for the third time.

"And a good one," added Neil. "This is watertight. It seems to be a contract agreeing to the
division you suggest, providing I go into the scheme. Very well, I'll sign this." He raised
his voice. "Samuels, come in and witness this. Now, what is the scheme?"

Keith produced another paper.

"It is written out in detail here."

Neil reached for it, but Keith drew it back.

"One moment."

He turned it over on the blank side and wrote:

"This is in full the financial deal referred to in contract entered into this 7th of June,
1852, by Malcolm Neil and Milton Keith."

To this he appended his signature, then handed the pen to Neil.

"Sign," he requested.

Neil took the pen, but hesitated for some moments, his alert brain seeking some way out. Finally
and grudgingly he signed. Then he leaned back in his chair, eying Keith with rather a wintry
humour, though he made no comment. He reached again for the paper, but Keith put his hand on it.

"What more do you want?" inquired Neil in amused tones. His sense of humour had been touched
on its only vulnerable point. He appreciated keen and subtle practice when he saw it,

"Not a thing," laughed Keith, "but a few words of explanation before you read that will make
it more easily understood. Can you tell me how much water lots are worth?"

"Five to eight thousand for fifty varas."

"All right. I've bought ten fifty vara lots at sheriff's sale for five thousand dollars."

Neil's eye went cold.

"I've heard of that. Your title is no good. The reason you got them so cheaply was that nobody
would bid because of that."

"That's for the courts to decide. The fact remains that I've a title, even though clouded,
at $500 per lot."

"Proceed."

"Well, the commissioners are now advertising a sale of these same lots at auction on the 15th."

"So I see."

"Well," said Keith softly, "it strikes me that whoever buys these lots then is due for a heap
of trouble."

"How so?"

"My title from the sheriff may be clouded, but it will be contested against the title given
at that sale. The purchaser will have to defend himself up to the highest court. I can promise
him a good fight."

Neil was now watching him steadily,

"If that fact could be widely advertised," went on Keith slowly, "by way of a threat, so to
speak, it strikes me it would be very apt to discourage bidding at the commissioners' sale.
Nobody wants to buy a lot of lawsuits, at any price. In absence of competition, a fifty vara
lot might be sold for as low as--say $500."

Neil nodded, Keith leaned forward.

"Now here's my real idea: suppose I buy in against this timid bidding. Suppose I am the one
who gets the commissioners' title for $500. Then I have both titles. And I am not likely to
contest against myself. It's cost me $1,000 per lot--$500 at each sale--a profit of from $4,000
to $7,000 on each lot."

He leaned back. Malcolm Neil sat like a graven image, no expression showing on his flintlike
face nor in his eyes. At length he chuckled harshly. Then, and not until then, Keith proceeded:

"But that isn't all. There's plenty more scrip afloat. If you can buy up as much of it as you
can scrape together, I'll get judgment for it in the courts, and we can enlarge the deal until
somebody smells a rat. We need several things."

"What?"

"Secrecy."

Neil made no reply, but the lines of his mouth straightened.

"Influence to push matters along in official circles."

"Matters will be pushed along."

"A newspaper."

"Leave that to me."

"Agents--not known to be connected with us."

Neil nodded.

"Working capital--but that is provided for in the contract. And"--he hesitated--"it will not
harm to have these matters brought before a court whose judge is not unfriendly."

"I can arrange for that, Mr. Keith."

Keith arose.

"Then that is settled." He picked up the duplicate copy of the contract. "There remains only
one other formality."

"Yes? What?"

"Your check for $12,000."

"What for?"

"For my expenses in this matter up to date."

"What!" cried Neil.

"The contract specifies that you are to furnish the working capital," Keith pointed out.

"But that means the future--"

"It doesn't say so."

Neil paused a moment.

"This contract would not hold in law, and you know it," he asserted boldly. "It would be held
to be an illegal conspiracy."

"I would be pleased to have you point out the illegality in court," said Keith coldly, his
manner as frosty as Neil's. "And if conspiracy exists, your name is affixed to it."

Neil pondered this point a moment, then drew his checkbook toward him with a grim little smile.

"Young man, you win," said he.

Keith thawed to sunniness at once.

"Oh, we'll work together all right, once we understand each other," he laughed. "Send your
man out after scrip. Let him report to me."

Neil arose rather stiffly, and extended his hand.

"All right, all right!" he muttered, as though impatient. "Keep In touch. Good-day. Good-day."

XXI

The time for the annual Firemen's Ball was now at hand. At this period the Firemen's Ball was
an institution of the first social importance. As has been shown, the various organizations
were voluntary associations, and in their ranks birds of a feather flocked together. On the
common meeting ground of the big annual function all elements met, even--if they did not mingle
as freely as they might.

In any case, the affair was very elaborate and very gorgeous. Preparations were in the hands
of special committees months in advance. One company had charge of the refreshments, another
of the music, a third of the floor arrangements, and so on. There was much jealous anxiety
that each should do its part thoroughly and lavishly, for the honour of its organization. The
members of each committee were distinguished by coloured ribbons, which they wore importantly
everywhere. An air of preoccupied business was the proper thing for days before the event.

It was held this year in one of the armouries. The decoration committee had done its most desperate.
Flags of all nations and strips of coloured bunting draped the rafters; greens from the Sausalito
Hills framed the windows and doors; huge oiled Chinese lanterns swayed from the roofs. The
floor shone like glass. At either end bowers of green half concealed the orchestras--two of
them, that the music might never cease. The side rooms were set for refreshments. Many chairs
lined the walls. Hundreds of lamps and reflectors had been nailed up in every conceivable place.
It took a negro over an hour to light them all. Near the door stood a wide, flat table piled
high with programs for the dancers. These were elaborate affairs, and had cost a mint of money--vellum
folders, emblazoned in colour outside, with a sort of fireman heraldry and the motto: "We strive
to save." Gilded pencils on short silken tasselled cords dangled from their corners.

At eight o'clock the lights were all blazing, the orchestras were tuning, and the floor fluttered
with anxious labelled committeemen dashing to and fro. There was nothing for them to do, but
they were nervous. By half-past eight the first arrivals could be seen hesitating at the outer
door, as though reluctant to make a plunge; herded finally to the right and left of men's and
women's dressing-rooms. After a long, chattering interval, encouraged by the slow accumulation
of numbers, a little group debouched on the main, floor. Its members all talked and laughed
feverishly, and tried with varying success to assume an accustomed ease they did not feel.
Most of the women, somehow, seemed all white gloves and dancing slippers, and bore themselves
rather like affable, slightly scared rabbits. The men suddenly became very facetious, swapping
jokes in loud tones.

The orchestra at the far end immediately struck up, but nobody ventured on the huge and empty
floor. Masters of ceremonies, much bebadged, rather conscious of white gloves, strove earnestly
with hurried, ingratiating smiles to induce the younger members to break the ice. Ben Sansome,
remarkable among them for his social ease and the unobtrusive correctness of his appointments,
responsible head of the reception committee, masterfully seized a blushing, protesting damsel
and whirled her away. This, however, was merely an informal sort of opening. The real bail
could start only with the grand march; and the grand march was a pompous and intricate affair,
possible only after the arrival of the city's elite. Partners for the grand march had been
bespoken months before.

The Keiths arrived about half-past nine. Nan was looking particularly well in her girlish fashion.
Her usual delicate colour was heightened by anticipation, for she intended ardently to "have
a good time." For this occasion, too, she had put on the best of her new Eastern clothes, and
was confident of the sensation they would create in the feminine breast. The gown was of silk
the colour of pomegranate blossoms, light and filmy, with the wide skirts of the day, the short
sleeves, the low neck. Over bodice and skirt had been gracefully trailed long sprays of blossoms.
Similar flowers wreathed her head, on which the hair was done low and smooth, with a golden
arrow securing it. A fine golden chain spanned her waist. From it dangled smaller chains at
the ends of which depended little golden hands. These held up the front of the skirt artistically,
at just the right height for dancing and to show flounces and ravishing petticoats beneath.
It was an innovation of the sort the feminine heart delights in, a brand-new thing straight
from Paris. Nan's gloves were of half length, the backs of the hands embroidered and displaying
each several small sparkling jewels. The broad golden bracelets had been clasped outside the
gloves. Around her little finger was a ring from which depended, on the end of a chain, a larger
ring, and through this larger ring hung her dainty lace handkerchief. This was innovation number
two. The men all stared at her proud, delicate, flowerlike effect of fresh beauty; but every
woman present, and Nan knew it, noted first, the cut of her gown, second, the dangling little
golden hands, and third, the handkerchief ring. She knew that not later than to-morrow at least
a half-dozen urgent orders would be booked at Palmerston's; but she knew, also, that at least
six months must elapse before those orders could be filled. As for the rest, her stockings
were white, her slippers ribboned with cross-ties up the ankles, she carried a stiff and formal
bouquet, as big around as a plate, composed of wired flowers ornamented with a "cape" of lace
paper; but those things were common.

Altogether, Nan looked extraordinarily well, made a sensation. Keith was pleased and proud
of her. He picked one of the blazoned vellum cards from the table and scrawled his initials
opposite half a dozen dances.

"I'm going to hold you to those, you know," he said.

They proceeded, leisurely across the floor, and Keith established her in one of the chairs.

"I'll go get some of the men I want you to meet," said he. When he returned with Bernard Black
he found Nan already surrounded, Ben Sansome was there, and Calhoun Bennett, and a half-dozen
others, either acquaintances made on some of the Sundays, or young men brought up by Sansome
in his capacity of Master of Ceremonies. She was having a good time laughing, her colour high,
Keith looked about him with the intention of filling his own card.

Mrs, Morrell, surrounded by a hilarious group of the younger fry, was just entering the room.
She was dressed in flame colour, and her gown was cut very low, plainly to reveal the swell
of her ample bosom. Her evening gloves and slippers were golden, as was a broad metallic woven
band around her waist. Altogether, striking, rather a conspicuous effort than an artistic success,
any woman would have said; but there could be no doubt that she had provided a glittering bait
for the attentions of the men.

Keith immediately made his way across to her.

"You are ravishing this evening," he said, reaching for her card. It was full. Keith was chopfallen.

"Take me to Mrs. Keith," asked Mrs. Morrell, taking the card again, "She looks charming to-night;
that simple style just suits her wide-eyed innocence."

She placed her fingers lightly on Keith's arm and moved away, nodding over her shoulder at
the rather nonplussed young men who had come in with her. Thus rid of them, she turned again
to Keith.

"You didn't think I'd forget you!" she said, as though, reproachfully. "See, I kept you four
dances. I put down those initials myself. Now don't you think I'm a pretty good sort?"

"Indeed I do! Which ones are they?" asked Keith, opening his own card.

"The third, seventh, ninth, and eleventh."

Keith hesitated for an appreciable instant. The seventh and eleventh he had put down for Nan.
But somehow in the face of this smiling, cynical-looking, vivid creature, he rather shrank
from saying that he had them with his wife. He swiftly reflected that, after all, he had four
others with Nan, that she was so surrounded with admirers that she could not go partnerless,
and that he would explain.

"Delightful!" he cried, pencilling his program.

Mrs. Morrell fluttered down alongside Mrs. Keith with much small talk. After a moment the music
started for the grand march. Everybody took the floor.

"Where can Charley be!" cried Mrs. Morrell in apparent distress. "Don't wait here with me.
I assure you I do not in the least mind sitting alone."

But she said it in a fashion that made it impossible, and in this manner Nan lost her first
engagement with her husband. Not that it mattered particularly, she told herself, grand marches
were rather silly things, and yet she could not avoid a feeling of thwarted pique at being
so tied to the wall.

At the close of the march, and after the couples had pretty well resumed their seats, Mrs.
Sherwood entered, unattended and very leisurely. She made, in her quieter manner, a greater
sensation than had Mrs. Morrell. Quite self-possessed, carrying herself with her customary
poise, dressed unobtrusively in black and gold, but with the distinction of an indubitable
Parisian model, moving without self-consciousness in contrast to many of the other women, her
small head high, her direct gaze a-smoulder with lazy amusement, she glided across the middle
of the floor. The eyes of every woman in the ballroom were upon her. The "respectable" element
stared shamelessly, making comments aside. Those a little declasse, on the fringe of society,
or the "faster" women like Mrs. Morrell--who might in a way be considered her rivals--were
apparently quite unaware of her. She made her unhasting way to a vacant chair, sat down, and
looked calmly about her.

Immediately she was surrounded by a swarm of the unattached men. The attached men became very
attentive to their partners.

"Hullo," remarked Keith cheerfully. "There's Mrs. Sherwood. I must go over and say good-evening
to her."

On sudden impulse Nan rose with him. She instinctively disliked her present company and the
situation; and a sudden pang of conscience had told her that not once since she had left the
Bella Union had she laid eyes on the woman who had received her with so much kindness.

"Take me with you," she said to Keith.

"My dear!" cried Mrs. Morrell. "You wouldn't! Take my advice--you're young and innocent!"

She sought one of those exclusive, private-joke glances at Keith, but failed to catch his eye.

"She was very kind to me when I arrived," said Nan serenely. Keith, hesitated; then his impulsive,
warm-hearted loyalty spoke.

"Good for you, Nan!" he cried.

They moved away, leaving Mrs. Morrell alone, biting her lip and planning revenges.

The group around Mrs. Sherwood fell away at their approach. Nan sat down next her, leaning
forward with a pretty and girlish, impulsiveness.

"It's ages since I have seen you, and I have no excuse to offer," she said. "The days slip by."

"I know," said Mrs. Sherwood. "New house, new Chinaman, even new dog-- enough to drive the
most important thoughts out of one's head. But you've come out to-night like a flower, my dear.
Your gown is charming, and it suits you so well!"

She chatted on, speaking of the floor, the music, the decorations, the crowd.

"I love this sort of thing," she remarked. "People in the mass amuse me. Jack couldn't get
away until midnight, but I wouldn't wait for him. I told him it didn't worry me a bit to come
without an escort," smoothing away what little embarrassment might linger. The music started
up again. The Keiths arose and made their adieux. Mrs, Sherwood looked after them, her bright
eyes tender. Mrs. Keith was the only woman who had yet spoken to her.

"Isn't she simply stunning?" cried Keith. "She has something about her that makes most of these
others look cheap."

"She's really wonderfully attractive and distinguished looking," agreed Nan.

"If she were only a little less practical--a little softer; more feminine-- she'd be a sure-enough
man killer. As it is, she needs a little more--you know what I mean--"

"More after Mrs. Morrell's fashion," suggested Nan a trifle wickedly. It popped out on the
impulse, and the next instant Nan would have given anything if the words had not been said.
Keith was arrested in mid- enthusiasm as though by cold water. He checked himself, looked at
her sharply, then accepted the pseudo-challenge.

"Well, Mrs. Morrell, for all her little vulgarities, impresses you as being a very human sort
of person."

He felt a sudden and unreasoning anger, possibly because the shot had hit a tender place.

"Shall we dance?" he suggested formally.

"I'm sorry," replied Nan, "I have this with Mr. Sansome; there he comes."

For the first time Keith felt a little irritated at the ubiquitous Sansome; but his sense of
justice, while it could not smooth his ruffled feelings, nevertheless made itself heard.

"What I need is a drink," he told himself.

At the buffet he found a crowd of the non-dancing men, or those who had failed to get the early
numbers. Here were many of his acquaintances; among them, to his surprise, he recognized the
grim features of Malcolm Neil. All were drinking champagne. Keith joined them. They chaffed
him unmercifully about his purchases of clouded titles in water lots, and he answered them
in kind, aware of Neil's sardonically humorous eye fixed on him. But at the first bars of the
next dance he bolted in search of Mrs. Morrell, with whom, he remembered, he had this number.

Mrs. Morrell danced smoothly and lightly for a woman of her size, but was inclined to snuggle
up too close, to permit undistracted guidance to her partner. It was almost impossible to avoid
collisions with other couples, unless one possessed a Spartan mind and an iron will. In spite
of himself, Keith became increasingly aware of her breast pressing against his chest; her smooth
arm against his shoulder; the occasional passing contact of her, scarcely veiled from the sense
of touch by the thin flame-coloured silk; the perfume she affected; the faint odour of her
bright blond hair. In an attempt to break the spell he made some banal remark, but she shook
her head impatiently. She danced with her eyes half closed. When the music stopped she drew
a deep sighing breath.

"You dance--oh, divinely!" she cried. "I might have known it."

She moved away, and Keith followed her, a trifle intoxicated.

"Let me see your card," she demanded abruptly. "Why, you haven't done your duty; this is hardly
a third filled!"

"I hadn't started to fill it--and then you came in," breathed Keith.

They were opposite the door leading into one of the numerous small rooms off the main floor
of the armoury.

"Let's sit here--and you can get me a punch," she suggested.

He brought the punch, and she drank it slowly, leaning back in an easy chair. The place was
dimly lighted, and her blond, full beauty was more effective than in the more brilliantly lighted
ballroom. Mrs. Morrell exerted all her fascination. The next dance was half over before either
Keith or--apparently--Mrs. Morrell became aware of the fact.

"Oh, you must run!" she cried, apparently greatly exercised. "Don't mind me; go and find your
partner."

Keith replied, that he had this dance free, a fact of which her inspection of his card had
perfectly informed her. In answer to his return solicitation as to her own partner, she shrugged
her shoulders.

"Oh, he'll find me," she said indifferently. "This is very cozy here."

They resumed what had become an ardent flirtation. Toward the end of the dance Mrs. Morrell's
partner came in, looking very flurried. Before he could say a word, Mrs. Morrell began reproachfully
to chide him with lack of diligence.

"I've been waiting just rooted to this spot!" she said truthfully.

"Shall we dance?" suggested the unfortunate young man.

"It's nearly over," replied Mrs. Morrell carelessly. "Do sit down with us. Get yourself something
to drink. Don't go!" she commanded Keith fiercely under her breath.

At the beginning of the fourth dance, however, her next partner found her and led her away.
She "made a face" over her shoulder at Keith.

When a woman makes up her mind to monopolize a man who has not acquired the fine arts of rudeness
and escape she generally succeeds. Keith's cordial nature was incapable of rudeness. Besides,
being a perfectly normal man, and Mrs. Morrell experienced and attractive, he liked being monopolized.
It crossed his mind once or twice that he might be in for a scolding when he got home. Nan
might be absurd. But he was so secure in his essential loyalty to Nan that his present conduct
was more in the nature of a delightfully naughty escapade than anything else. He stole the
apples now, and later would go dutifully for his licking. Men of Keith's nature are easily
held and managed by a wise woman, but the woman must be very wise. Keith loved celebrations.
On the wings of an occasion he rose joyfully and readily to incredible altitudes of high-spirited
but harmless recklessness. Birthdays, anniversaries, New Years, Christmas, arrivals, departures,
he seized upon with rapture. Each had its appropriate ceremonial, its traditional drink, the
painstaking brewing of which was a sacred rite. On such occasions he tossed aside the cloak
of the everyday. A "celebration" meant that you were different. Humdrum life and habits must
be relegated to the background. It was permitted that, unabashed, you be as silly, as frivolous,
as inconsequential, as boisterous, as lighthearted, as delightfully irresponsible as your ordinary
concealed boyishness pleased. Customary repressions had nothing to do here. This was a celebration!
And in the aforementioned our very wise woman would have seen--a safety valve.

Keith was off on a celebration to-night: an unpremeditated, freakish, impish, essentially harmless
celebration, with a faint flavour of mischief in it because he had Nan in the back of his head
all the time. He played up to Mrs. Morrell with exuberance, with honestly no thought except
that he was having a whacking good time, and that old Nan was being teased. It was characteristic
that for the time being he fell completely under Mrs. Morrell's fascination. They were together
fully half the time, appearing on the floor only occasionally, then disappearing in one or
the other of the many nooks. Mrs. Morrell "bolted" her dances shamelessly. Keith thought her
awfully amusing and ingenious in the way she managed this. Sometimes they hid in out-of-the-way
places. Sometimes she pretended to have mistaken the dance. "The sixth, are you very sure?
I'm convinced it is only the fifth." Keith's conscience troubled him a little concerning the
few names on his own card.

"I have this with Mrs. Wilkins," said he. "I really ought to go and look her up."

She took his card from him and deliberately tore it to small bits which she blew from the palm
of her gloved hand. He protested in real dismay, but she looked him challengingly, recklessly,
in the eye, until he laughed, too.

All this was, of course, well noticed. Keith, again characteristically, had not taken into
consideration the great public. Nan might have remained comparatively indifferent to Keith's
philandering about for an evening with the Morrell creature--she had by now a dim but growing
understanding of "celebrations"--but that he should deliberately neglect and insult her in
the face of all San Francisco was too much. Her high, young enjoyment of the evening fell to
ashes. She was furiously angry, but she was a thoroughbred. Only a heightened colour and a
sparkling eye might have betrayed her to an astute woman. Observing her, Ben Sansome took heart.
It was evident to him that the Keiths had long since reached an absolute indifference in their
relations, that they lived the conventional, tolerant, separate lives of the majority of married
couples in Ben Sansome's smart acquaintance. He ventured to apply himself more assiduously,
and was by no means badly received.

Keith remembered the next dance with his wife. He could not find her, although, a trifle conscience
stricken, he searched everywhere. After the music had finished, she emerged from the dressing-room;
the next time she could not be found at all. Evidently she was avoiding him with intention.

Mrs. Sherwood, after each dance, returned invariably to the same chair near the middle of one
wall. There, owing to the fact that the "respectables" withdrew from the chairs on either side,
withdrew gradually and without open rudeness, she held centre of a little court of her own.
This made of it a sort of post of observation from which she could review all that was going
on. She had no lack of partners, for she danced wonderfully, and in looks was quite the most
distinguished woman there. Keith's dance with her came and went, but no Keith appeared to claim
it. Mrs. Sherwood smiled a little grimly, and her glance strayed down the wall opposite until
it rested on Nan. She examined the girl speculatively. Nan was apparently completely absorbed
in Ben Sansome; but there was in her manner something feverish, hectic, a mere nothing, which
did not escape Mrs. Sherwood's keen eye.

About midnight Sherwood appeared, and at once made his way to his wife's side. He was punctiliously
dressed in the mode: a "swallowtail," bright, soft silk tie of ample proportions, frilled linen,
and sparkling studs. He bent with an old-world formality over his wife's hand. She swept away
her skirts from the chair at her side, her eyes sparkling softly with pleasure.

"You won't mind," she said carelessly to the young men surrounding her, "I want to talk to
Jack for a minute."

They arose, laughing a little.

"That is your one fault, Mrs. Sherwood," said one, "you are altogether too fond of your husband."

"Well, how are things going?" asked Sherwood, as they moved away.

"I'm having a good time. But you're very late, Jack,"

"I know--I wanted to come earlier. Everything all right?"

At the question a little frown sketched itself on her clear brow.

"In general, yes," she said. "But they've got that Lewis boy out in the bar filling him up
on champagne."

"That's a pity."

"It's a burning shame!" said she, "And I'd like to shake young Keith. He's dangled after the
Morrell woman from start to finish in a manner scandalous to behold."

Sherwood laughed.

"The 'Morrell woman' will do his education good," he remarked.

"Well, she isn't doing that poor little Mrs. Keith's education any good," returned Mrs. Sherwood
rather tartly.

Sherwood surveyed Nan and Ben Sansome leisurely.

"I must say she doesn't look crushed," he said, after a moment.

"Do you expect her to weep violently?" asked Mrs. Sherwood.

He accepted good naturedly the customary feminine scorn for the customary masculine obtuseness.

"Well, I don't know that we can help it," said he, philosophically.

Mrs. Sherwood appeared to come to a sudden resolution. She arose.

"You go get that Lewis boy away from the bar," she commanded.

Deliberately she shook and arranged her full skirts. The man with whom she had this dance,
and who had been waiting dutifully for the conference to close, darted forward. She shook her
head at him smilingly.

"I'm going to let you off," she told him. "You won't mind. I have something extra special to do."

She swept quite alone across the middle of the ballroom, serene, self- possessed; and walked
directly toward Keith and Mrs.

Morrell, who were seated together at the other end. A perceptible pause seemed to descend.
The music kept on playing, couples kept on dancing, but, nevertheless, suddenly the air was
charged with attention. Sherwood looked after her with mingled astonishment and fond pride.

"A frontal attack, egad!" said he to himself.

Keith and Mrs. Morrell pretended, as long as they decently could, not to see her. She swam
leisurely toward them. Finally Keith arose hastily; Mrs. Morrell stared straight ahead.

"Young man," accused Mrs. Sherwood, with a faint amusement in her rich, low voice, "do you
know that this is our dance?"

Keith excused his apparent lapse volubly, telling several times over that his program had been
destroyed, that he was abject when he thought of the light this put him in.

"It is only when angels like yourself condescend to reach me a helping hand that I have even
a chance to right myself," he added. He thought this rather a good touch.

Mrs. Sherwood stood before him easily, in perfect repose of manner, the half smile still sketching
her lips. She said just nothing at all in response to his glib excuses; but when he had quite
finished she laid her hand in his arm. Mrs. Morrell, her colour high, continued to stare straight
ahead, immobile except for the tapping of one foot. To Keith's request to be excused she vouchsafed
a stiff half nod, partly in his direction.

They danced. Mrs. Sherwood, like most people who have command enough of their muscles to be
able to keep them in graceful repose, danced marvellously well. When she stopped after a single
turn of the room, Keith expostulated vigorously.

"You are a perfect partner," he told her.

"Take me in here and get me a sherbet," she commanded, without replying to his protests. "That's
good," she said, when she had tasted it. "Now sit down and listen to me. You are making a perfect
spectacle of yourself. Don't you know it?"

Keith stiffened to an extreme formality.

"I beg your pardon!" said he freezingly.

"That may be your personal individual right"--went on Mrs. Sherwood's low, rich voice evenly.
She was not even looking at him, but rather idly toward the open door into the ballroom. Her
fan swung from one finger; every line of her body was relaxed. She might have been tossing
him ordinary commonplaces from the surface of a detached mind--"making a spectacle of yourself,"
she explained; "but you're making a perfect spectacle of your wife as well--and in public.
That is not your right at all."

Keith sprang to his feet, furious.

"You are meddling with what is really my own business, madam," said he.

For the first time she looked up at him, dearly and steadily. In the eyes.

"Very well. That is true. Stop a moment and think. Are you attending to your business yourself,
even decently? Yes, I understand; you are angry with me. If I were a man, you would challenge
me to a duel and all that sort of thing." She smiled indifferently. "Let's take that for granted
and get on. Sweep it aside. You are man enough to do it, or I mistake you greatly. Look down
into yourself for even one second. Are you playing fair all around? Aren't you a little ashamed?"

She held him with, her clear, level gaze. His own did not fall before it, and his head went
back, but slowly his face and neck turned red. Thus they stared at each other for a full half
minute, she smiling slightly, perfectly cool; he seething with a suppressed emotion of some
sort. Then she turned indolently away.

"You're too fine to do things like that," she said, with a new softness in her voice; "we all
have too much faith in you. The common tricks would not appeal to you, except in idleness;
is it not so?"

She smiled up at him, a little sidewise. Keith caught his breath. For a fleeting instant this
extraordinary woman deigned to exert her feminine charms for the first time the coquette looked
from her eyes; for the first time he saw mysteriously deep in her veiled nature a depth of
possibility, of rich possibility--he could not grasp it--it was gone. But in spite of himself
his pulses leaped like a flame. But now she was gazing again at the ballroom door, cool, indolent,
aloof, unapproachable. Yet just at that instant, somehow, the other woman looked shallow, superficial,
cold. His glance fell on Mrs. Morrell still sitting where he had left her. Something was wrong
with her effect----

Analysis was submerged in a blaze of anger. This anger was not now against the woman before
him; his instinct prevented that. Nor against Mrs. Morrell nor his wife; reluctant justice
prevented that. Nor against himself--where it really belonged. Things were out of joint; he
felt cross-grained and ugly. Mrs. Sherwood rose.

"You may take me back now," said she.

As they glided across the floor together, her small sleek head came just above his shoulder.
No embarrassment disturbed her manner. Keith could not find in him a spark of resentment against
her. She moved by his side with an air of poise and detachment as a woman whose mind had long
since weighed and settled the affairs of her own cosmos so that trifles could not disturb her.

Leaving her in her accustomed chair, where Sherwood waited, Keith loyally returned to Mrs.
Morrell, who still sat alone. Subconsciously he noticed something wrong with Mrs. Morrell.
Her gowning was indeed rather a conspicuous effort than an artistic success. She had badly
torn her dress-- perhaps that was it.

Mrs. Morrell received him with every appearance of sympathy.

"You poor thing!" she cried. "What a fearful situation! Of course I know you couldn't help it."

But Keith was grumpy and monosyllabic. He refused to discuss the situation or Mrs. Sherwood,
returning with an obvious effort to commonplaces. Mrs. Morrell exerted all her fascination
to get him back to the former level. A little cold imp sat in the back of Keith's brain and
criticised sardonically; Why will big women persist in being kittenish? Why doesn't she mend
that awful rent, it's fairly sloppy! Suppose she thinks that kind of talk is funny! I do wish
she wouldn't laugh in that shrill, cackling fashion! In short, the very tricks that an hour
ago were jolly and amusing were now tiresome. Having been distrait, ungallant, masculinely
put out for another fifteen minutes, he abruptly excused himself, sought out Nan, and went home.

From her point of observation, Mrs. Sherwood watched them go. Nan looked very tired, and every
line of Keith's figure expressed a grumpy moroseness.

"Congratulations," said Sherwood.

"He certainly is a child of nature," returned his wife. "Look at him! He is cross, so he looks
cross. That this is a ballroom and that all San Francisco is present is a mere detail."

"How did you break it up?" asked Sherwood curiously.

"Men are so utterly ridiculous! He had built up a lot of illusions for himself, but his instincts
are true and good. It needed only a touch. It was absurdly simple."

"He'll go back to the Morrell to-morrow," asserted Sherwood confidently.

She shook her head.

"Not to her. He sees her now. And not to-morrow. But eventually to somebody, perhaps. He has
curly hair."

Sherwood laughed.

"Shear him, like Sampson," he suggested. "But it strikes me he has about the most attractive
woman--bar one--in town right at home."

"She'd have no trouble in holding him if she were only awake. But she's only a dear little
child--and about as helpless. She has very little subtlety. I'm afraid she'll follow the instincts
of her training. She'll be too proud to do anything herself to attract her husband, once his
attentions to her seem to drop off. She'll just become cold and proud--and perhaps eventually
turn elsewhere."

"I don't believe she's a bit that kind," asserted Sherwood positively.

"Nor do I. But, Jack, a woman lonely enough has fancies, that in the long run may become convictions."

XXII

Mrs. Sherwood was completely right. Keith had seen Mrs. Morrell. The glamour had fallen from
her at a touch. He did not in the least understand how this had happened, and considered that
it was his own fault. Mrs. Morrell had not changed in the least, but he had, somehow. He looked
upon himself as fickle, disloyal, altogether despicable. Yet for the life of him he could not
get up the slightest spark of enthusiasm for musical evenings, Sunday night suppers, or week-end
excursions into the country. They had fallen dead to his taste; and with the sudden revolt
to which such temperaments as his are subject, he could not bear even the thought of them without
a feeling of incipient boredom. The blow administered to his self- respect put him quite out
of conceit with himself and the world in general. If he had followed his natural instinct,
he would instanter have thrown, overboard all the Morrell episode, bag and baggage.

But that was, of course, impossible. Keith felt his obligations; he was a man of honour; he
had respect for the feelings of others; he could not make friendly people the victims of his
own outrageous freaks. That was out of the question!

Mrs. Morrell sent for him. She had been puzzled by the episode of the evening before. It would
have been absolutely incredible to her that a hundred words from a woman who was not her rival
could have destroyed her influence over this man. She had considerable knowledge of men, and
she had played her cards carefully. But she realized that something was the matter; and she
thought that the time had come to use the power she had gained. A note dispatched by the Chinaman
would do.

Keith obeyed the summons. He knew himself well enough to realize that the intimacy, such as
it was, must come to a pretty abrupt termination. Otherwise, he would shortly get very bored;
and when he got very bored he became, in spite of himself, reserved and self-contained to the
point of rudeness. For the exact reason that he saw thus clearly, his conscience was smiting
him hard. Mrs. Morrell had done nothing to deserve this treatment. He was a dastard, a coward,
ashamed of himself. If she wanted to see him, it was her due that he obey her summons promptly.
He went with the vague idea of making amends by doing whatever she seemed to require--for this
once.

She entered the dim sitting-room clad in a flowing silken negligee, which she excused on the
ground of laziness.

"I'm still a little tired from last night," she said, with a laugh.

The soft material and informal cut clung to and defined the lines of her figure, showing to
especial advantage the long sweep of her hips, the pliancy of her waist, the swell of her fine
bust. A soft lilac colour set off the glint of her fair hair. She was, in fact, feeling a little
languid from the reaction of the ball and in a sudden rush of emotion she admired Keith's crisp
freshness. Her eyes swam a little and her breast heaved.

But the preliminary conversation went by jerks. Keith answered her advances with an effort
toward ease and cordiality, but with a guarded, unnatural manner that sent a sudden premonitory
chill to the woman's heart. Her instinct warned her. As the minutes passed, her uneasiness
grew to the point of fear. Was she losing him? Why? This was no time for ordinary methods.

She arose and went to sit by his side.

"What's the matter, dear?" she asked.

"Nothing."

"Why are you acting in this manner? What have I done?"

"I'm not; you haven't done anything--of course."

She suddenly leaned forward, looking into his eyes, projecting all the force of her magnetism.
She had before seen him respond, felt him quiver to her tentative, mischievous advances,

"Kiss me," she breathed.

Poor Keith was having a miserable enough time. He clung to his first thought--that this evening
was her due, that he was in some way bound, in ending everything, to pay whatever coin he had
left. He obeyed her, touching her lips lightly and coldly with his own. Never was chaster caress
bestowed on melting mood!

She flung him violently aside, her face writhing and contorted with fury. She was enlightened,
completely, as she could have been enlightened in no other manner.

"You can go!" she cried hoarsely. "Get out! Don't dare enter this house again!"

He made some sort of spiritless, feeble protest, trying his best to put some convincing quality
into it. But she did not even listen. The ungoverned tiger-cat part of her nature was in the
ascendant, the fierce pride of the woman living near the edge of the half-world. She would
gladly have killed him. At length he went, very confused, bewildered, miserable-- and relieved!
He left behind him a bitter enemy.

XXIII

In complete revulsion, Keith scuttled the frivolous world of women. As he expressed it, he
was sick of women. They made him tired. Too much fuss trying to keep even with their vagaries.
A man liked something he could bite on. He plunged with all the enthusiasm and energy of his
vivid personality into his business deal of the water lots and into the fascinating downtown
life of the pioneer city. The mere fact that he had ended that asinine Morrell affair somehow
made him think he had made it all up to Nan, and he settled back tacitly and without further
preliminaries into what his mood considered a most satisfactory domestic basis. That is, he
took his home and his home life for granted. It was there when he needed it. He admired Nan
greatly, and supplied her with plenty of money, and took her to places when he could get the
time. Some day, when things were not quite so lively, they would go somewhere together. In
the meantime he never failed to ask her every evening if she had enjoyed herself that day;
and she never failed to reply that she had. Everything was most comfortable.

After the Firemen's Ball Nan, somehow relieved of any definite uneasiness, felt that she should
be made much of, should be a little wooed, that Keith should make up a little for having been
somewhat of a naughty boy. When, instead, she was left more alone than before, she was hurt
and depressed. Of course, Milton did not realize--but what was there for her? Wing Sam ran
the house; she worked a good deal in the garden, assisted by Gringo. Probably at no time in
modern history have wives been left so much alone and so free as during this period. The man's
world was so absorbing; the woman's so empty.

Ben Sansome dropped in quite often. He was always amusing, always agreeable, interested in
all sorts of things, ready to give his undivided attention to any sort of a problem, no matter
how trivial, to consider it attentively, and to find for it a fair and square deliberate solution.
This is exceedingly comforting to the feminine mind. He taught Gringo not to "jump up"; he
found out what was the matter with the Gold of Ophir cutting; he discovered and took her to
see just the shade of hangings she had long sought for the blue room. Within a very short time
he had established himself on the footing of the casual old-time caller, happening by, dropping
in, commenting and advising detachedly, drifting on again before his little visit had assumed
rememberable proportions. He had always the air of just leaning over the fence for a moment's
chat; yet he contrived to spend the most of an afternoon. He spoke of Keith often, always in
affectionate terms, as of a sort of pal, much as though he and Nan both owned him, he, of course,
in a lesser degree.

One afternoon, after he had actually been digging away at a bulb bed for half an hour, Nan
suggested that he come in for refreshment. Gradually this became a habit. Sansome and Nan sat
cozily either side the little Chinese tea table. He visibly luxuriated.

"You don't know what a privilege this is for me--for any lonesome bachelor in this crude city--to
have a home like this to come to occasionally."

He hinted at his situation, but made of its details a dark mystery. The final impression was
one of surface lightness and gayety, but of inner sadness.

"It is a terrible city for a man without an anchor!" he said. "Keith is a lucky fellow! If
I only had some one, as he has, I might amount to something." A gesture implied what a discouraged
butterfly sort of person he really was.

"You ought to marry," said Nan gently.

"Marry!" he cried. "Dear lady, whom? Where in this awful mixture they call society could one
find a woman to marry?"

"There are plenty of nice women here," chided Nan.

"Yes--and all of them taken by luckier fellows! You wouldn't have me marry Sally Warner, would
you--or any of the other half-dozen Sally Warners? I might as well marry a gas chandelier,
a grand piano, and a code of immorals--but the standard of such women is so different from
the standard of women like yourself."

Nan might pertinently have inquired what Ben Sansome did in this gallery, anyhow; but so cold-blooded
and direct an attack would have required a cool detachment incompatible with his dark, good
looks, his winning, appealing manners, his thoughtfulness in little things, his almost helpless
reliance on her sympathy; in other words, it presupposed a rather cynical, elderly person.
And Nan was young, romantic, easily stirred.

"All you need is to believe in yourself a little more," she said earnestly and prettily. "Why
don't you undertake something instead of drifting? Some of the people you go with are not especially
good for you--do you think so?"

"Good for me?" he laughed bitterly. "Who cares if I go to the dogs? They'd rather like me to;
it would keep them company! And I don't know that I care much myself!" he muttered in a lower tone.

She leaned forward, distressed, her eyes shining with expostulation.

"You mustn't hold yourself so low," she told him vehemently. "You mustn't! There are a great
many people who believe in you. For their sake you should try. If you would only be just a
little bit serious--in regard to yourself, I mean. A gay life is all very well----"

"Gay?" he interrupted, then caught himself. "Yes, I suppose I do seem gay-- God knows I try
not to cry out--but, really, sometimes I'm near to ending it all----"

She was excited to a panic of negation.

"Oh, no! no!" she expostulated vehemently. ("Egad, she's stunning when she's aroused!" thought
Sansome.) "You mustn't talk like that! It isn't fair to yourself; it isn't fair to your manhood!
Oh, how you do need some one to pull you up! If I could only help!"

He raised his head and looked directly at her, his dark, melancholy eyes lighting slowly.

"You have helped; you are helping," he murmured. "I suppose I have been weak and a coward,
I will try."

"That's right. I am so glad," she said, glowing with sweetness and a desire to aid. "Now you
must turn over a new leaf," she hesitated. "Every way, I mean," she added with a little blush.

"I know I drink more than I ought," he supplied in accents of regret.

"Don't you suppose you could do without?" she begged very gently.

"Will you help me?" He turned on her quickly; then, his delicate instincts perceiving a faint,
instinctive recoil at his advance, he added: "Just let me come here occasionally, into this
quiet atmosphere, when it gets too hard and I can see no light; just to get your help, the
strength I shall need to tide me over."

He looked very handsome and romantic and young. He was apparently very, deeply in earnest.
Nan experienced a rash of pity, of protective maternal emotion.

"Yes, do come," she assented softly.

XXIV

All this time Keith was busy every minute of the day. The water-lot matter was absorbing all
his attention. Through skilful and secret agents Neil had acquired a great deal of scrip issued
by the city for various public works and services which the holders had not yet exchanged for
the new bonds. These he turned over to Keith. Very quietly, by prearrangement, the latter sued
and obtained judgments. When all this had been fully accomplished--and not before then--the
veil of secrecy was rent. Rowlee's paper advertised a forthcoming sale of water lots to satisfy
the judgments.

Then followed, for Keith, an anxious period of three days. But at the end of that time the
commissioners issued a signed warning that the titles conveyed by this sale would not be considered
legal. On seeing this, Keith at once rushed around to Neil's office.

"Here it is," he announced jubilantly. "They held off so long that I began to be afraid they
did not intend to play our game for us. But it's all right."

The matter was widely discussed; but next morning placards, bearing the text of the commissioners'
warning, were posted on every blank wall in town and distributed as dodgers. These were attributed
by the public to zeal on the part of those officials; but the commissioners knew nothing about it.

"Some anonymous friend of the city must have done it," Hooper told his friends, and added,
"We are delighted!"

The unknown friend was Malcolm Neil himself.

This warning had its effect. As Keith had predicted, nobody cared to put good money into what
was officially and authoritatively announced as a bad title. At the sheriff's sale there were
no bona fide bidders except the secret agents of Malcolm Neil. The sheriff's titles--such as
they were-- went for a song. Immediately the ostensible purchasers were personally warned by
the commission; but they seemed satisfied.

So matters rested until, a little later, the commissioners inserted in all the papers the customary
legal advertisements setting forth a sale by them, under the State law, of these same water
lots to satisfy the interest and fill the sinking fund for the bonds. The next morning appeared
a statement signed by all the ostensible purchasers under the sheriff's sale. This stated dearly
and succinctly the intention to contest any titles given by the commissioners, even to the
highest courts. This was marked advt, to indicate the newspaper's neutrality in the matter.
Rowlee commented on the situation editorially, He took the righteous and indignant attitude,
expressing extreme journalistic horror that such a hold-up should be possible in a modern,
civilized community, hurling editorial contempt on the dastardly robbers who were thus intending
to shake down the innocent purchasers, etc. In fact, he laid it on thick, But he managed to
insinuate a doubt. Between the lines the least astute reader could read Rowlee's belief that
perhaps these first purchasers might have a case, iniquitous but legal. He hammered away at
this for a week. By the end of that time he had, by the most effective, indirect methods--purporting
all the time to be attacking the signers of the warning--succeeded in instilling into the public
mind a substantial distrust of the stability of the titles to be conveyed at the commissioners'
sale. Malcolm Neil complimented him highly at their final and secret interview.

Again Keith's predictions were fulfilled to the letter. Nobody wanted to buy a lawsuit. There
were a few bidders, it is true, but they were faint hearted. Another set of Malcolm's secret
agents bid all the lots in at a nominal figure. That very afternoon they all met in Neil's
stuffy little back office. Keith had the deeds prepared. All that was necessary was to affix
the signatures. The purchasers under both sales conveyed their rights to Neil and Keith. The
latter now possessed uncontested and incontestable title.

XXV

Having personally delivered the deeds to the recorder's office, Keith went home. In the relief
from pressure, the triumph, and the exaltation, his instinct carried him to the actual background
of his life--his genuine but preoccupied affection for Nan. The constraint, that had been so
real to her, had never been anything but nebulous to him.

He burst into the house, capered around the room boyishly, seized her, and waltzed her gayly
about. Quite taken by surprise, Nan's first thought was that he had been drinking too much;
so naturally she failed to rise instantly to the occasion.

"Stop it, Milton!" she cried. "What has got into you! You're tearing me to ribbons!"

He laughed heartily.

"You must think I'm crazy," he acknowledged. "Sit down here, and learn what a great man your
husband is." He poured out the story of the transaction, omitting no details of the clever
schemes by which it had been worked. He was, above all, proud of his legal address and acumen--there
was something in Eastern training, after all; this lay right under their noses, but none of
them saw it until he came along and picked it up. "And there are some pretty smart men out
here, too, let me tell you that," he added. "They're from all parts of the world, and they've
had a hard practical education, their eye teeth are cut!" His egotism over being keener than
the acknowledged big men was very fresh and charming. The money gained he mentioned as an afterthought,
only when the other aspect of the situation had been exhausted. "The cold hard dollars are
pretty welcome just now," he told her. "There's about a quarter million in those lots--and
we can realize on all or part of them at any time. All came out of here!" He tapped his forehead,
and paused in his rapid pacing to and fro to look down at her In the easy chair, "We are well
off now. We needn't scrimp and save"--it did not for the moment occur to him that they had
not been doing so--"I'm going to get you eight new gowns, and twelve new hats, and a bushel
of diamonds----"

"I'm glad, very glad!" she cried, catching his enthusiasm, her mind for the first time occupying
itself seriously with the mechanism of the deal. At first, when he had been explaining, she
had not thrown off the impression that he had been drinking, and so had paid little attention
to his explanations. "It sounds like magic. Tell me again--how you did it,"

Nothing loath, he went over it again, making clear the double clouding of the titles.

But Nan, being much alone, had the habit, shared with few women of that time, of reading the
newspapers. She had followed Rowlee's campaign, and she had taken seriously the editor's diatribes,
Rowlee had been talking for effect. The ideals of ultimate civic honesty were yet fifty years
in the future, but he had stumbled on their principle. Nan's mind, untrained in any business
ethics, caught them; and her sure natural instincts had accepted their essential justice. In
recognizing Milton's connection as promoter with just this deal, she was suddenly called upon
to make adjustments for which there was no time. She knew Milton would do nothing wrong, and
yet--he was waiting in triumph for her response.

"It was very clever. And yet, somehow, it doesn't sound right--" she puzzled, "Are you sure
it's honest?"

"Honest?" he snorted, halted in mid-career, "Of course it's honest! Why isn't it honest?"

Confronted with the direct question, she really did not know. She groped, proffering tentatively
some of the arguments half remembered from Rowlee's editorial columns. But she confronted now
a lawyer, sure of himself. Keith explosively, and contemptuously demolished her contentions.
Everything was absolutely legal, every step of it. If a man hadn't a right to buy in property
at any sale and sell it again where he wanted, where in thunder was our boasted liberty? Just
the kind of fool notion women get! Keith in his honest pride and triumph had come for sympathy
and admiration. Turned back on himself, he became vaguely resentful, and shortly left the house.

Hardly had the front door closed after him when Nan burst into tears. She had not meant it
to come out that way at all. Of course she had had no real thought that Milton would do anything
dishonest; how absurd of him to take it that way! She had simply expressed a queer instinctive
thought that had flashed across her mind; and now she could not for the life of her guess how
she had come to do so. Miserably and passionately she realized that she had bungled it.

XXVI

But if Keith missed the appreciation of his triumph at home, he received full meed of it downtown.
In a corner of the Empire a dozen of the biggest men in town were gathered. They were Sam Brannan;
Palmer, of Palmer, Cook & Co.; Colonel E. D. Baker, the original "silver-tongued orator"; Dick
Blatchford, the contractor; Judge Terry, of the Supreme Court; oily, coarse Ned McGowan; Nugent
and Rowlee, editors, and some others. They were doing an exceedingly important part of their
daily business: sipping their late afternoon cocktails. Calhoun Bennett joined them.

"Little item of news to interest you-all," drawled the Southerner. "I've just come down from
the recorder's office. The deeds for the water lots have just been recorded." He paused.

"Have a drink, Cal," urged Dick Blatchford, "and sit down. What of it?"

"They were recorded in the names of Malcolm Neil and young Keith. I'll have a cocktail."

"That so? Pretty shaky title. Which sale did they record under?"

"Both!" said Bennett.

He stood until he saw that the significance of this had soaked in; then he drew out a chair
and sat down. Ned McGowan chuckled hoarsely.

"Pretty slick!" said he. "Wonder some of us didn't think of that! I suppose they went around
and scared the purchasers until they got them, pretty cheap. Trust old Neil to drive a bargain!"

But Palmer, the banker, who had been thinking, here spoke up:

"The purchasers were undoubtedly their agents," he surmised quietly.

"By God, you're right!" cried Terry. "Old Malcolm is certainly the devil without a tail!"

"Speak of him and you get him," remarked Colonel Baker, pointing out Neil, who had just entered.

They raised a shout at him, until finally the old man, reluctantly and crabbedly, sidled over
to join them.

"You're discovered, old fox!" cried Terry; "and the outraged dignity of the law demands a drink."

They plied him with half-facetious, half-envious congratulations. But Neil would have none of them.

"Not my scheme," he growled. "Entirely Keith's. I'm a sleeping partner only. He engineered
it all, thought of it all, dragged me in."

"You must have made a good thing out of it, Mr. Neil," suggested Palmer respectfully.

The formidable old man eyed the speaker grumpily for a moment.

"About a quarter million, cool, between us," he vouchsafed finally. He was, for some reason,
willing to brag a bit.

This statement was received in admiring silence by all but Terry. Everybody but that devil-may-care
and lawless pillar of the law was afraid of Neil. But Terry would joke with anybody.

"I hope you're going to let him have a little of it, Neil," he laughed.

The old man shifted his eyes from Palmer to Terry with much the air of restraining heavy guns.
Terry met the impact untroubled.

"Judge," grunted the financier at last, "that young man will get his due share. He has tied
me up in a contract that even your honoured court would find difficulty in breaking."

With this parting shot he arose and stumped out.

"If Malcolm Neil acknowledges he is tied up," observed Terry, who had not been in the slightest
degree disturbed, "he is certainly tied up!"

"Consider the man who tied him," begged Colonel Baker. "He must, in the language of the poets,
be a lallapaloozer."

"He's worth getting hold of," said Dick Blatchford.

Therefore, when, a little later, Keith appeared, he was hailed jovially, and invited to drink.
Everybody was very cordial. Within five minutes he was hail fellow with them all, joking with
the most august of them on terms of equality. Judge Terry, in whose court he had stood abashed,
plied him with cocktails; Colonel Baker told several stories, one of which was new; Sam Brannan,
with the mixture of coarseness, overbearing manners, and fascination that made him personally
attractive to men and some women, called him "my boy"; and the rest of the party had whole-heartedly
taken him in and were treating him as one of themselves. Keith had known all these men, of
course, but they had been several cuts above him in importance, and his relations with most
of them had been formal. His whole being glowed and expanded. After the first cocktail or two,
and after a little of this grateful petting, he had some difficulty in keeping himself from
getting too expansive, in holding himself down to becoming modesty, in not talking too much.
He quite realized the meaning of this sudden cordiality; but he welcomed it as another endorsement,
from the highest, most unimpeachable sources, of his cleverness and legal acumen.

They drank and talked until twilight. Then Keith began to make his excuses. They shouted him down.

"You're going to dinner with us, my son," stated Brannan. "They've opened an oyster palace
down the street, and we're going to sample it."

"But my wife--" began Keith.

"Permit me," interrupted Terry, bending his tall form in courtesy. "I am about to dispatch
a messenger to Mrs. Terry, and shall be pleased to instruct him to call at your mansion also."

It was so arranged. Immediately they adjourned to the new "Oyster Palace," a very gaudy white
and gilt monstrosity with mirrors and negro minstrels. There were small private rooms, it seemed,
and one of these was bespoken from the smiling manager, flattered at the patronage of these
substantial men.

San Francisco lived high in those days. It could pay, and for pay the best will go anywhere.
The dinner was quite perfect. There were more cocktails and champagne. Under the influence
of good fellowship and drinks, Keith was finally prevailed upon to give the details of the
whole transaction. Perhaps this was a little indiscreet, but he was carried away by the occasion.
The noisy crowd suddenly became quiet, and listened with the deepest attention. When Keith
had finished, there ensued a short silence. Then Judge Terry delivered his opinion.

"Sound as a dollar," he pronounced at last. "Not a hole in it. Is that your opinion, Colonel
Baker?"

"Clever piece of work," nodded the orator gravely. After this interim of sobriety the dinner
proceeded more and more noisily. The drink affected the different men in different ways. A
flush appeared high on the cheek bones of Terry's lean face and an added dignity in his courtly
manner. Brannan became louder and more positive. On Blatchford his potations had no appreciable
effect except that his round face grew redder. Ned McGowan dropped even his veneer of good
breeding, became foul mouthed and profane, full of unpublishable reminiscence to which nobody
paid any particular attention. Calhoun Bennett's speech became softer, more deliberate, more
consciously Southern. Keith, who was really most unaccustomed to the heavy drinking then in
vogue, was filled with a warm and friendly feeling toward everybody. His thoughts were a bit
vague, and he had difficulty in focussing his mind sharply. The lights were very bright, and
the room warm.

Suddenly they were all in the open air under the stars. There seemed to have been an unexplained
interim. Everybody was smoking cigars. Keith was tugging at his pocket and expostulating something
about payment--something to do with the dinner. Evidently some part of him had gone on talking
and thinking. The fresh air brought him back to the command. Various suggestions were being
proffered. Blatchford was for hiring rigs and driving out to the Mission; Calhoun Bennett suggested
the El Dorado; but Sam Brannan's bull voice decided them.

"I'm going to Belle's!" he roared, and at once started off up the street. The idea was received
with acclamation. They straggled up the street toward the residential portion of town.

Keith followed. The delayed action of the drink had thrown him into a delicious whirling haze.
He felt that he could be completely master of himself at any moment merely by making the effort;
only it did not at present seem worth while. He knew where Belle's was: it was the ornate house
diagonally across the street from his own, the one concerning which the clerk had been so evasive
when they were house hunting.

Belle's was a three-story frame building, differing in no outward essential from the fashionable
residences around it. On warm evenings there sometimes came through the opened windows the
sound of a piano, the clink of glasses, loud laughter or singing. The chance bystander might
have heard identically the same from any other house in the neighbourhood. Only Belle's occasionally--rarely
occasionally--contributed a crash or an oath. Such things were, however, quickly hushed. Belle's
was run on respectable lines. Men went in and out quite openly, with the tolerance of most,
but to the scandal of a few. Those curious, consulting the yellowed files of the newspapers,
can read little protests--signed with nom de plumes--from young women, complaining that young
men of their acquaintance, after calling decorously on them, would cross quite openly to the
house over the way. Yet they were powerless, for a year or so at least, to break up the custom.

For Belle's was a carry-over from the 49-51 days when of social life there was none at all.
It differed from the merely disreputable house. Belle prided herself on quiet conduct and many
friends. In person she was a middle-aged, still attractive Frenchwoman. She had furnished her
parlours very elaborately, and she insisted that both her employees and clients should behave
in the public rooms with the greatest circumspection.

Indeed, a casual visitor, unacquainted with the character of the place, might well have been
deceived. The women sitting about were made up and very decollete, to be sure, but their conduct,
while not always of the highest tone, was nevertheless quite devoid of freedom. Belle permitted
no overt word or action; nor was any visitor subjected to another expectation than the occasional
opening of a bottle of wine "for the good of the house."

But outside of the one fundamental rule of decency, the caller could make himself comfortable
in his own way. He could lounge, pound the piano, joke, play games, smoke where he pleased,
and enjoy what was then a rarity--the company and conversation of nimble-witted, well-dressed,
beautiful women whose ideas were not narrow. Ultimate possibilities were always kept very much
in the background, but that there were possibilities made for present relaxation or freedom.

Twice a year Belle was in the habit of giving a grand party. The invitations were engraved.
Entertainment was on a sumptuous scale. There were dancing, all sorts of card games, an elaborate
supper, the best of music, often professional entertainers of great merit. Everything was free
except wine. Nearly the whole masculine population turned out for Belle's big party--judges,
legislators, bankers, merchants, as well as the professional politicians and the gamblers.
The most prominent men of the city frequented Belle's at other times openly, without fear of
public opinion--many of them merely for the sense of freedom and relaxation they there enjoyed.
Everybody was welcome.

Keith, however, knowing the character of the place, had never been inside its doors. Now, enveloped
in his rosy haze, exceedingly contented with his company, he followed where they led. At the
door a neat coloured maid relieved him of his hat and coat, and smiled a welcome. His dazzled
vision took in a long drawing-room, soft red carpets, red brocade curtains of heavy material,
with edges of gold fringe and with gold cords, chandeliers of many dangling prisms, a white
marble mantel, a grand piano, a few pictures of the nude, and many chairs. Ravishingly beautiful,
wonderfully dressed women sat about in indolent attitudes.

The hilarious party at once scattered through the room, Calhoun Bennett went to the piano and
began to play sentimental airs. Ned McGowan, his face very red, enthroned himself in an easy
chair, clasping girls who perched on either arm. He talked to them in a low voice. They leaned
over to hear, and every moment or so they burst into shrieks of laughter. Judge Terry was listening
intently to some serious communication Belle herself was making to him. Sam Brannan was roaring
for champagne. The others were circulating here and there, talking, playing practical jokes.
Altogether, to Keith's rosy vision, a colourful and delightful scene. Nobody paid him the least
attention.

How long he stood there he did not know. The groups before him shifted and changed confusedly.
The lights seemed to blaze and to dim, and then to blaze again. After a long interval he became
aware of a touch on his arm. He looked down. A piquant, dark-eyed, tilt-nosed girl was smiling
up at him.

"Wat you do?" she was begging. "You come wiz me?"

He focussed his attention on the room. It was almost empty. He saw the back of Judge Terry
disappearing into the street. He passed his hand across his eyes.

"Where are the others?" he asked confusedly.

She laughed with significance. He looked down at her again. Her complexion was a sort of dead
white, her lips were red and glistening, her eyes were darkened. He turned suddenly and left
the house. The coloured maid, disappointed in a tip, stood in the doorway, his hat and coat
in her hands, staring after him. The cool air a little cleared his brain. He stopped short
in the middle of the street, trying to collect himself.

"I'm drunk," he solved finally, and proceeded very carefully toward his own house. After each
dozen steps he paused to collect his thoughts before proceeding. In one of these pauses he
distinctly heard a window slam shut; there were plenty of louder things, he heard only the
window. He hadn't the least idea of the time of night, except that it must be very late. As
a matter of fact, it was not more than half-past ten. Near his own gate he nearly ran into
a woman strolling. With some instinct of apology, he turned in her direction. As his bare head
was revealed in the dim light, the woman uttered a low laugh.

"And was Belle as charming as ever?" demanded Mrs. Morrell sweetly but icily. "Go in carefully
now, so dear little wifey won't know."

She laughed again and moved past him. He stared after her with a vague sense of injustice,
somehow; then went on.

XXVII

Keith was sorry next morning, but he was not repentant, in the sense of feeling that he had
done anything fatally wrong. He was disgusted with himself. He wasted no regrets, but did register
a very definite intention not to let that happen again! It was all harmless enough, once in
a way, but it was not his sort of thing. Nan would not understand it a bit--why should she?
His head ached, and he was feeling a little conscience-stricken about Nan, anyway. He must
take her around more, see more of her. Business had been very absorbing lately, but now that
this deal had been brought off successfully, it was only due her and himself that he take a
little time off. In his present mood he convinced himself, as do most American business or
professional men, that he was being driven in his work, and that he wanted nothing better than
a let-up from the grind. As a matter of fact, he--and they--love their work.

In this frame of mind he started downtown, rather late. On the street he met a number of his
friends. A good many of them chaffed him good-naturedly about the night before. By the time
he reached his office he was feeling much better. Things were assuming more of an everyday
comfortable aspect. He had not been seated ten minutes before Dick Blatchford drifted in, smoking
a black cigar that gave Keith a slight qualmish feeling. Dick seemed quite unaffected by the
evening before.

"Hullo, Milt!" he boomed, rolling his heavy form into a chair, his round, red face beaming.
"How's the wild Injin this morning? Say, you're a wonder when you get started! You needn't
deny it; wasn't I there?" He shook his head, chuckling fatly. "Look here," he went on, "I'm
busy this morning--got to get down to North Beach to see Harry Meigs--and I guess you are."
He tossed over a package of papers that he produced from an inside pocket. "Look those over
at your leisure. I think we better sue the sons of guns. Let me know what you think." He fished
about in a tight-drawn waistcoat pocket with a chubby thumb and forefinger, pulled out a strip
of paper, and flipped it to Keith as casually as though it were a cigarette paper. "There's
a little something as a retainer," said he. "Well, be good!"

After he had lumbered out, Keith examined the check. It was for one thousand dollars. If anything
were needed to restore his entire confidence in himself, this retainer would have sufficed.
The little spree was regrettable, of course, but it had brought him a client--and a good one!

Two days later Keith, who now had reason to spend more time in his office, received another
and less welcome visitor: this was Morrell. The young Englishman, his clean-cut face composed
to wooden immobility, his too- close-set eyes squinting watchfully, came in as though on a
social call.

"Just dropped around to look at your diggin's," he told the surprised Keith. "Not badly fixed
here; good light and all.".

He accepted a cigar, and sat for some moments, his hat and stick carefully disposed on his knees.

"Look here, Keith," he broke into a desultory chat after a few minutes. "Deucedly awkward,
and all that, of course; but I've been wondering whether you would, be willing to tide me over--remittances
late, and all that sort of thing. Stony for the moment. Everything lovely when the mails arrive.
Neighbours, see a lot of each other, and that sort, you know."

Keith was totally unprepared for this, and floundered. Morrell, watching him calmly, went on:

"Of course I wouldn't think of coming to you, old chap--plenty of people glad to bank for me
temporarily--but I wanted you to know just how we stand--Mrs. Morrell and I--that we feel friendly
to you, and all that sort of thing, you know! You can rely on us--no uneasiness, you know."

"Why, that's very kind of you," returned Keith, puzzled.

"Not a bit! The way I looked at it was that a chap wouldn't borrow from a man he wasn't friendly
with, it isn't done." He laughed his high, cackling laugh, "So I said to Mimi, 'the dear man
must be worryin' his head off.' It was lucky for you, old top, that a woman of the world with
some sense saw you the other night instead of some feather-headed gossipin' fool. But Mimi's
not that."

Keith was slowly beginning to suspect, but as yet he considered his suspicion unjust.

"How much do you need?" he asked,

"Five hundred dollars," replied Morrell coolly.

"I doubt I have that sum free in ready cash."

Morrell looked him in the eye.

"I fancy you will be able to raise it," he said very deliberately.

The men looked at each other.

"This is blackmail, then," said Keith without excitement.

Morrell became very stiff and English in manner.

"Words do not frighten me, sir. This is a personal loan. It is an action between friends, just
as my silence on the subject of your peccadillo is a friendly action. I mention that silence,
not as a threat, but as an evidence of my own friendly feeling. I see I have made a mistake."

He arose, his bearing very frigid. Keith was naturally not in the least deceived by this assumption
of injured innocence, but he had been thinking.

"Hold on!" he said. "You must forgive my being startled; and you must admit you were a little
unfortunate in your presentation. For this loan, what security?"

"My personal note," replied Morrell calmly.

"I must look into my resources. I will let you know to-morrow."

"Not later than to-morrow. I'll call at this hour," said Morrell with meaning.

After the Englishman had gone Keith considered the matter at leisure. Although of a sanguine
and excitable temperament When only little things were involved, he was clear headed and uninfluenced
by personal feeling in real emergencies.

First, would the Morrells carry out the implied threat? His instinct supplied that answer.
Of Morrell himself he had never had any trust. Now he remembered what had never really struck
him before: that Morrell, even in this fast and loose society, had never been more than tolerated,
and that, apparently, only because of the liveliness of his wife. He had the indefinable air
of a bad 'un. And Keith's knowledge of women was broad enough to tell him that Mrs. Morrell
would be relentless.

Second, would a denial avail against their story? His commonsense told him that if the Morrells
started this thing they would carry it through to a finish. There was no sense in it otherwise,
for such an attack would mean the burning of most of their social bridges. Morrell could get
witnesses from Belle's--say, the coloured maid whom he had not tipped--and there were his hat
and coat.

Third, could he afford to let them tell the tale? As far as his position in the city, either
professionally or socially, most decidedly yes. But at home, as decidedly no. In her calmest,
most judicial, trusting, loving mood, Nan could never understand. Her breeding and upbringing
were against it. She could never comprehend the difference between such a place as Belle's
and any disreputable house--if there was a difference. This point needed little argument.

Then he must pay.

Having definitely decided this, he repressed his natural inclinations toward anger, drew the
money, laid it aside in his drawer, and went on with his work. When Morrell came, in next morning,
very easy and debonair, he handed out the gold pieces and took in return the man's note, without
relaxing the extreme gravity and formality of his manner.

"Thanks, old chap!" cried Morrell. "You've saved my life. I won't forget." He paused; then
cackled harshly: "Good joke that! No, I won't forget!"

Keith bowed coldly, waiting. Morrell, with, a final cackle, made leisurely for the door. As
he laid his hand on the knob, Keith spoke:

"By the way, Morrell."

Morrell turned.

"Take care you don't overdo this," advised Keith, very deliberately.

Morrell examined him. Keith's face was grim. He smiled enigmatically.

"Tact is a blessed gift, old top," said he, and went out.

XXVIII

This whole episode proved to be a turning-point in Keith's career. His revulsion against the
feminine--hence society--side of life brought about by the affair of Mrs. Morrell, might soon
have passed, and he might soon have returned to the old round of picnics, excursions, dinners,
and parties, were it not that coincidentally a new and absorbing occupation was thrust upon
him. Dick Blatchford's case was only one of many that came to him. He became completely immersed
in the fascinating intricacies of the law.

As has been previously pointed out, nowhere before nor since has pure legality been made such
a fetish. It was a game played by lawyers, not an attempt to get justice done. Since, in all
criminal cases at least, the prosecution was carried on by one man and his associates, poorly
paid and hence of mediocre ability, and the defence conducted by the keenest brains in the
profession, it followed that convictions were rare. Homicide in various forms was little frowned
upon. Duels were of frequent occurrence, and, in several instances, regular excursions, with
tickets, were organized to see them. Street shootings of a more informal nature were too numerous
to count. Invariably an attempt, generally successful, was made to arrest the homicide. If
he had money, he hired the best lawyers, and rested secure. If he had no money, he disappeared
for a time. Almost everybody had enough money, or enough friends with money, to adopt the former
course. Of 1,200 murders--or "killings"--committed in the San Francisco of those days, there
was just one legal conviction!

It was a point of professional pride with a lawyer to get his client free. Indeed, to fail
would be equivalent to losing a very easy game. The whole battery of technical delays, demurrers,
etc., was at his command; a much larger battery than even the absurd criminal courts of our
present day can muster. Delays to allow the dispersal of witnesses were easily arranged for,
as were changes of venue to courts either prejudiced in favour of the strict interpretation
of "law" or frankly venal. Of shadier expedients, such as packing juries, there seemed no end.

