The edible part of a French Artichoke is the base of the scales and the bottom of the artichoke.
The Jerusalem artichoke is a genuine tuber something like a potato. They are differently treated
in preparation for cooking, but are cooked similarly. To prepare a French artichoke for boiling,
pull off the outer leaves, cut the stalks close to the bottom, wash well and throw into cold
salt water for two hours. To boil, plunge them into boiling salted water, stalk end up with
an inverted plate over them to keep them down. Boil until very tender, season well, drain and
arrange on a dish with tops up. Pour over any good vegetable sauce. (See Sauces.) To prepare
Jerusalem artichokes for boiling pare and slice thin into cold water to prevent turning dark,
boil in salted water, season and serve with drawn butter or a good sauce.

CREAMED ARTICHOKES.

Slice six artichokes, boil in salted water and when tender, drain. Brown slightly in a saucepan
one tablespoonful of butter and a dessert spoonful of flour, add a cup of rich milk, season
with a half teaspoonful of salt, the same amount of sugar and a dash of pepper; boil two minutes,
then stir in two eggs well beaten in two tablespoonfuls of milk, add the artichokes and the
juice of half a lemon and let simmer three minutes longer; when dished up sprinkle one-third
of a salt spoon of pepper over them and serve hot.

FRIED ARTICHOKES.

Boil and drain six artichokes, season with a sprinkling of vinegar, a little salt and pepper
and stand them aside for an hour; beat an egg, add to it a tablespoonful of warm water, dip
each slice in this, then in flour and fry in hot fat. Serve with Sauce Tartare. (See Sauces.)

MRS. S. T. RORER.

ARTICHOKES A LA LYONNAISE.

Boil, drain, put into a saucepan with melted butter and sweet oil and brown on both sides,
season with salt. Add a half cupful of meat stock, thicken with a little flour and butter,
and boil three minutes, squeeze a little lemon juice into it, add a sprinkling of parsley and
a dash of pepper, pour over the artichokes and serve.

FRENCH RECIPE.

PICKLED ARTICHOKES.

Parboil artichokes, and pour over good strong vinegar. They make excellent pickles.

ARTICHOKE SOUP.

Slice into cold water to keep the color, boil an hour or more in two quarts of water, season
highly with butter, pepper and salt, and just before taking up, add a cup of cream.

ARTICHOKES A LA VINAIGRETTE.

Pare and throw into cold water at once. When ready for use cut into thin slices, arrange them
on lettuce leaves and serve with a French dressing. (See Salad Dressing.)

AMBUSHED ASPARAGUS.

Use one quart of the tender tops of asparagus, and be rid of the white part, which will not
cook tender, boil and drain. Cut off with care the tops from rolls or biscuits a day old, scoop
out the inside, and set the shells and tops into the oven to crisp. Boil a pint of milk, and
when boiled stir in four eggs well whipped. As it thickens season with a tablespoonful of butter;
salt and pepper to taste. Into this mixture put the asparagus cut up into small pieces. Fill
the shells, replace the tops, put into the oven for three minutes and serve very hot.

BAKED ASPARAGUS.

Choose the freshest asparagus possible, trim the tops, scrape or peel the stalks, cut them
into equal lengths and tie into small bunches; boil in salted water, drain, cut into inch pieces
and put into a buttered baking dish; pour over a white sauce, (See Sauces) cover the top with
grated cheese and bread crumbs, and bake until a golden brown.

BOILED ASPARAGUS.

Prepare as for baked asparagus, and when boiled tender in salted water, pour over a drawn butter
sauce; or prepare a sauce from the water drained from the asparagus by thickening with one
tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour and the beaten yolk of an egg, to which
add seasoning and lemon or nutmeg to suit taste.

