PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 156.

JANUARY 1, 1919.

TO AN UNKNOWN COLLEAGUE.

(Inspired by the exchange of Minutes in Government Departments.)

  He was my friend--if friendship's proof
    Be sympathy profound and sweet;
  Eight months we toiled beneath one roof,
    Yet somehow never chanced to meet.

  So near and yet so far! I own
    We may have passed upon the stair;
  Yet, if we did, we passed unknown;
    No tremor told me he was there.

  He knew not it was I. Alas!
    With such community of souls
  That he and I should blindly pass
    And live as sundered as the poles!

  For I, when darkness sealed my eyes,
    Would place my judgment in his hands,
  Would ask him humbly to advise
    And yield myself to his commands;

  Just hinting what my view might be
    (If asked) on this or that affair,
  But never in undue degree
    And with a deprecating air.

  And he, thus modestly addressed,
    Would wield an amicable pen
  And say he thought my view was best
    In full nine cases out of ten.

  And so in deep harmonious flood
    Our friendship flowed, and proved, I think,
  Though water be less dense than blood,
    Yet blood is far less dense than ink.
         *       *       *       *       *
  And now, when things are somewhat slow,
    My leisure moments I beguile
  By reading o'er with heart aglow
    A certain old and dusty file--

  One out of hundreds, kept to prove
    A truth the world may oft forget,
  That there can live pure trust and love
    'Twixt persons who have never met.

  Oh, sweet the trill of mating larks!
    But sweeter, sweeter, I aver,
  That soft appeal--"For your remarks,"
    That gentle answer--"We concur."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARIVARIA.

A Fellow of the Royal Society states that, as a result of radium activity, the end of the world,
which had been estimated to arrive in a few thousand years, may be postponed for a million
aeons. It is hoped that this will allay the anxiety of those soldiers who were nervous about
their chances of being demobilized.

       ***

It is reported that when asked his impression of President WILSON Mr. BALFOUR remarked, "Gee!
He's the top shout and the main squeeze. And then some."

       ***

"How much water," asks a technical journal, "does it take to make a gallon of Government ale?"
We do not profess to be expert, but we should say about a gallon.

       ***

There is no truth in the rumour that TROTSKY has written to President WILSON offering to execute
the Peace Conference at any time within the next three months at half the usual rates.

       ***

A case which has been puzzling the medical authorities is reported from Warwickshire. After
acting strangely for several days a boy named TOMMY SMITH asked his parents if he could have
rice pudding instead.

       ***

"Great Britain," says an essayist, "has come out of the war with flying colours." No blame,
we understand, attaches to Mr. PHILIP SNOWDEN for this.

       ***

A large marrow has been washed ashore at Lowestoft bearing a name and address and the words,
"Please write." It is not known why the marrow left home.

       ***

A report comes from Berlin that Dr. SOLF has resigned. It is expected that he will be succeeded
by Dr. SOLF.

       ***

The greengrocer who deliberately attempted to spoil President WILSON'S welcome by exhibiting
American apples for sale on Boxing Day is suspected of being a naturalised German.

       ***

A North of England widower would like to meet lady possessing in her own right a bottle of
whisky. Object, matrimony.

       ***

The largely increased number of unemployed politicians is causing the country great concern.

       ***

Heavy falls of snow have occurred in the Midlands, where the people say they have not had such
a winter since last summer.

       ***

Described as the tallest soldier in Ireland, MICHAEL GRADY, of County Mayo, who is seven feet
two inches in height, hopes to settle down on a farm. It is expected that he will shortly be
measured for a village.

       ***

"To improve the appetite," says a Health Culture journal, "one should salute the morn by throwing
open the windows, lay on the bedroom floor with the feet in the air and breathe deeply." This
method of saluting is not recommended to recruits.

       ***

The latest Sunday newspaper reminds us that it prints all the news. It must do better than
this if it is to keep pace with some of our contemporaries.

       ***

Charged at Carmarthen with bigamy a soldier said he had no recollection of his second marriage.
Once again we feel compelled to point out the advantage of keeping a diary.

       ***

It appears that one burglar has claimed his discharge from the Army on the ground that he is
a pivotal man and that several policemen are waiting for him.

       ***

It is wrong to suppose, says the Coal Control Department, that anthracite is injurious to health.
The little ones all declare that its flavour compares favourably with that of Brazil nuts.

       ***

Three cases of mince-pie shock are reported from the Westbourne Grove district.

       ***

A woman has been fined ten shillings at Birmingham for putting cold tea in bottles and selling
it as whisky. One of the purchasers, it appears, had his suspicions aroused by the peculiar
taste of the liquid.

       ***

The KAISER'S health, says a contemporary, is still a cause of anxiety.

Not to us.

       ***

"SHOOTINGS WANTED.

   "Woman (middle-aged, respectable) would give services for home and
    small wage."

    Scottish Paper

She would probably be quite effective at ordinary ranges.

       ***

    "Would the Party who removed Petticoat from the Railway Fence,
    between 11th and 12th, kindly return same and save further
    exposure."--Provincial Paper.

In the interests of propriety we trust this appeal has been responded to.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER HISTORIC INTERVIEW.

BY OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT.

Incited to great efforts by the interview in "The Times" with President WILSON, wherein so
much is said (by the interviewer), Mr. Punch sent forth one of his most energetic and Napoleonic
young men to attempt a similarly incredible feat and obtain an interview with that most unapproachable
of men--President not excluded--the Editor of "The Times." The word "failure" being absent
from the Bouverie Street lexicon, it follows that the impossible was achieved, and the electrifying
result is printed below. In the wish that readers in vaster numbers than usual may peruse the
winged words of the illustrious journalist, Mr. Punch offers the freedom of the article to
all editors the world over.

The office of The Times is situated in a busy quarter of the great city of London and is built
of brick and stone. Light enters the numerous rooms through windows made of glass. Outside
is the roar of traffic; inside, the presses groan, not always without reason.

My appointment with the august and retiring controller of the great English journal--the Jupiter
who directs its thunderbolts, determines the size of type appropriate to every correspondent,
and latterly has added to the gaiety of nations by offering a tilting-space to the ATTORNEY-GENERAL
and Mr. GIBSON BOWLES--my appointment being at three o'clock I was careful to reach the office
a few minutes before that hour, because I like to have time to look around and collect those
little details of environment and atmosphere which are so valuable in themselves as to make
it almost immaterial whether the person I am to interview speaks at all.

Entering the offices, which can be described only as palatial, I was struck by the thoughtfulness--no
doubt appertaining to the head of the establishment who was so soon, for the first time in
history, to grant me an audience--which had provided a parallelogram of some fibrous material
for the purpose of removing the mud from one's boots. A minute later I was again delighted
by the discovery of an ingenious contrivance in the shape of a kind of peg or hook on which
a hat and coat could be placed. It is by just such minutiae as these that one place is distinguished
from another and character indicated.

Punctually to the minute I was shown into the Editor's room, where again I was struck by the
imaginative adequacy of the surroundings. Before coming to the man himself let me say something
of these. The floor was not bare or even sprinkled with sawdust, as it might easily have been,
but it was covered by a comfortable carpet, probably from Axminster. Comfort was indeed the
note. The desk was neither pitch pine nor teak, but mahogany. Upon it were scattered papers--lightly
scattered, although no doubt each was of the most momentous, even tragical import, some bearing
the signatures of the most eminent publicists in the land. Yet, such is the domination of this
man, they lay there like circulars or election addresses. In the ink-pot was ink. A date rack
was proof that the Editor is not superior to the artificial divisions of time.

As I entered, his back was towards me, but none the less I was conscious of power, distinction,
a man apart. I have seen many backs, but none more notable than this. Turning he revealed to
the full the wonder and mystery of his famous frown--the frown of Jupiter Tonans. Much has
been said of this frown, but since no analysis has yet appeared in print I must be permitted
to offer one. To begin with, the frown is not only on his face, but (one instinctively knows)
all over him. It suffuses him. Could one see, for instance, his knee, one is sure that it would
be frowning too.

The effect was terrifying, but I stood my ground. As for the face, where the frown concentrates,
it is most curiously divided. Below the masterful nose the frown may be said to be merely threatening;
above the firm upper lip it assumes a quality of such dourness as to resemble a scowl. The
forehead is corrugated. The ears twitch, especially the left. The eyes emit sparks.

Hitherto he had not spoken; but now he began to unburden himself of those opinions, hopes,
fancies and idealistic meditations for which I had come so far to see him. In order that there
shall be no ambiguity I have arranged for them to be set up in larger type than the rest of
the article. After all, any type will suit my own poor setting, but the jewels, the jewels
must be seen.

"Be seated, pray," he said. "The world," he added after a long silence, "is in an unusual state.
The Versailles Conferences may effect great changes."

"Everyone hopes," he remarked after another pause, "that the weather will improve; recently
it has been far from invigorating."

I give his exact words with scrupulous minuteness.

"A permanent peace," he continued, "based upon equity, cannot but be desired. The Election
results," he added as an afterthought, "are interesting."

Asked what he thought of the PRIME MINISTER, he pondered deeply for a while and then replied,
in carefully measured tones, "I think him an exceptional man."

Pressed as to the League of Nations, he considered the matter for some minutes and then said,
"It is a fine notion. We might all be the happier if it came."

My time being now up he bowed me to the door and the interview was over. The knob was of brass
and had been, recently polished.

His last words were, "Mind the step."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANTI-PICADORS.

A conference of subscribers and contributors to the correspondence columns of The Times was
held at Caxton Hall on Saturday last, to discuss the situation created in the issue of December
21st by the printing of the interview with President WILSON in larger type than had ever been
used previously in the body of the paper. Amongst those present were "Scrutator," "Bis Dat
Qui Cito Dat," "Judex," "Vindex," "Palmam Qui Meruit Ferat," "Rusticus Expectans," "Old Etonian,"
"Anxious Parent," "Anti-Jacobin," "Puzzled," "Octogenarian," "Quousque Tandem," and "The Thin
End of the Wedge."

The Chair was taken by a "Subscriber of Fifty Years' Standing," who prefaced his remarks by
observing that neither he nor any of those present was animated by the faintest antagonism
to President WILSON. Their gratitude to him for his services in the War was so great that,
in the abstract, they could have no objection to his being accorded the distinction of the
largest possible type, so long as proper distinction was made typographically between the remarks
of the PRESIDENT and the comments of the interviewer--as for example that Mr. WILSON's bedroom
is "strictly First Empire," or that "there seems to be some kind of competition between the
upper and the lower halves of his features," or that his "grey lounge suit" was "well cut into
his body." But there ought to be some harmony between the size of the type and the importance
of the views expressed. He had himself contributed many letters to The Times on subjects of
the greatest urgency, but had never attained the dignity even of long primer. (Sensation.)
He thought that in the circumstances they were entitled to address a modest protest to the
Editor, to the effect that the use of "pica" should be reserved for the rarest occasions and
not be allowed to prejudice the claims of those who were entitled to exercise the indefeasible
privilege of "writing to The Times." (Cheers.)

"Scrutator," who followed, disclaimed any personal grievance. His letters had always appeared
in large type and on the best pages. But he drew the line at "pica"; it looked too like an
advertisement and destroyed the balance of the page. In old days an editor controlled the "make-up"
of his paper. Now he was at the mercy of his "maker-up."

"Judex," speaking from the body of the hall, said that he had heard the interview in question
spoken of as a "splendid scoop." He was not certain what the phrase meant, but he did not like
the sound of it, and dreaded the prospect of President WILSON being made the subject of a typographical
competition between our daily papers. While the paper shortage lasted this might lead to very
serious results in the way of restricting the space available for the ventilation of the views
of those present.

An "Anxious Parent" pointed out that the use of "pica" was unfortunate, as it irresistibly
suggested "picador," one who participated in a cruel sport, whereas President WILSON was a
most humane and compassionate man and had never assisted at a bull-fight.

After several other speeches it was ultimately resolved to form an association, to be known
as the "Anti-Picador League," and a small committee was appointed to draw up an appeal to the
principal Editors to abstain as far as possible from typographical Jumbomania.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOY (SECOND CLASS).

  BOY (Second Class) John Simpkins, a bad 'un, you must know,
  Was told to swab a plank one day by a First-Class C.P.O.,
  Whose eagle eye, returning, on the deck espied a stain--
  "Boy Simpkins, fetch your mop, me lad, and swab yon plank again."
  Boy Simpkins (Second Class, too!) made as though he wouldn't go,
  And distinctly muttered "Blast you!" to that First-Class C.P.O.

  The splendid Petty Officer fell flat upon the deck;
  They bore him to the Sick Bay just a weak and worthless wreck;
  But an A.B. who was standing by had caught the wicked word
  And told the Duty Officer exactly what occurred:--
  "Boy Simpkins (Second Class, too!), which I think yer oughter know, Sir,
  'Ad the lip ter mutter 'Blast you!' ter the Fust-Class C.P.O., Sir."

  There is silence in the foc's'le, on the quarter-deck dismay,
  And the lower deck is humming in a most unusual way;
  The working-party pauses as it cleans a six-inch gun,
  And tho Officer on Duty whispers hoarse to "Number One":--
  "Boy Simpkins (Second Class, too!), I suppose you ought to know, Sir,
  Had the cheek to mutter 'Blast you!' to a First-Class C.P.O., Sir."

  Number One, his face is ashen and his knees knock as he runs
  (A curious phenomenon quite rare in Number Ones);
  But on he rushed until he saw the tall brass-hatted Bloke,
  And, nervously saluting, incoherently he spoke:--
  "Boy Simpkins (Second Class, too!), I'm afraid that you must know, Sir,
  Had the nerve to mutter 'Blast you!' to a First-Class C.P.O., Sir."

  The Bloke turned blue and shivered, then hysterically laughed,
  And hurried, cackling shrilly, to the Owner's cabin aft;
  There in that awful presence, with lips aghast and pale,
  To the horror-haunted Owner he re-told the horrid tale:--
  "Boy Simpkins (Second Class, too!), I regret to let you know, Sir,
  Had the face to mutter 'Blast you!' to a First-Class C.P.O., Sir!"

  You could almost hear the silence when the flags began to flap
  And the Captain made the signal that destroyed the Admiral's nap;
  And though I wasn't there myself beside the great man's bed
  You all can guess as well as I just what the Owner said:--"SUBMITTED.
  Boy Simpkins (Second Class, too!), it is thought you ought to know, Sir,
  Has dared to mutter 'Blast you!' to a First-Class C.P.O., Sir!"

  The Press Bureau won't let me mention how the Admiral went
  And told Sir ERIC GEDDES, who informed the Government;
  How the Cabinet, when summoned, found him far too bad to kill,
  So packed him off to Weiringen to valet LITTLE WILL.
  Boy Simpkins (Second Class, too!) down to history will go
  As the first and last who dared say "Blast" to a First-Class C.P.O.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOVEL RECONSTRUCTION.

Simmons is a writer of fiction and was a friend of mine.

I used to play billiards with Simmons, to talk to Simmons, but not to read Simmons.

There are limits to friendship.

I met him the other day in a very depressed state.

"Look at these munition workers," he said. "See what the Government is doing for them. Paying
them wages all the time that they're out of work. What about me?"

"Well, you weren't on munitions."

"I have been on intellectual munitions," replied Simmons. "And now all my editors write to
me, 'Get away from the War.' I have to transfer my machinery to peace work. I have to turn
away from the production of the German spy. Think of it. I have almost lived on him for years.
I have created hundreds of him during the War. All my laboriously acquired knowledge of German
terms--like 'Schweinhund,' you know--goes for nothing. I shall have to make all my villains
Bolsheviks. That will require close study of Russia. All my old Russian knowledge goes for
nothing. They have abolished the knout and exile to Siberia. I have to start afresh.

"Then look at my heroes. I have mastered the second lieutenant. My typewriter almost automatically
writes 'old top,' 'old soul,' 'old bean,' 'old egg.' All my study of this type is thrown away.
And heroines--why, I shall have to study dress again. The hospital nurse is done for; the buxom
proportions of the land-girl avail me no more. My dear fellow, it will be six months before
I can deal with women's costume competently.

"And plots. How the War simplified everything. The Zep, a failure in fact, was a splendid success
in fiction. The awkward people could be wiped out so simply. Then one's villains could die
gallantly--a bit of good in the worst of men, you know--whispering a hurried confession in
the ears of the Company Sergeant-Major in the front trenches.

"Then, again, all misunderstandings were explained when the V.C. looked up from his hospital
bed. 'Eric,' she gushed, 'you here!' And from that moment he needed no more medicine. My dear
fellow, we shall want new plots now; real plots and new characters. It will be a long time
before I can return to my pre-war standard of strong, silent, masterful millionaires from the
backwoods. Haven't I a right to seek compensation from the Government for checking my intellectual
output?"

"I think the Government ought to pay you ten pounds for every week in which you don't write,"
I said.

Simmons shook me warmly by the hand.

The next day he cut me dead. I believe that Simmons, though an author of popular fiction, must
have been thinking.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE FUTURE OF LYING.

"INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE TO BE CALLED."

Northampton Dally Echo.

We should have thought it might quite safely be left to private enterprise.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The American troops on this side are already either in the States
    or on their way."--Letter in "Daily Express."

The Germans will take this as convincing evidence of American duplicity.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HISTORY OF A JOKE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

IN MEMORY OF DORA.

(A JOYOUS ANTICIPATION.)

  Walk very softly here and very slowly;
    Let no sound pass the barrier of your teeth;
  Not that the spot whereon you tread is holy,
    But lest you rouse her up that lies beneath.

  She ruthlessly curtailed our golf and skittles;
    She vetoed daily sprees and nightly jinks;
  She doled our baccy and weighed out our victuals,
    And watered (cruellest of all) our drinks.

  Anathema (by order) were our races;
    Joy-riding was taboo in car or train;
  And when they ventured to kick o'er the traces
  She strafed her victims till they roared again.

  Now where she sleeps the sleep that knows no waking
    A simply graven sentence marks the place
  (The Latin's shaky but bears no mistaking):--
    "Hic jacet DORA and hic let her jace."

       *       *       *       *       *

AN UNHAPPY CHRISTMAS.

    "A number of persons have booked dooms for Yuletide."--Scottish
    Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BROTHER SERVICE.

    MR. PUNCH, DEAR SIR,--I am still with the Q.M.A.A.C.'s at what used
    to be called the Front. But do not imagine I am cut off from news.
    Papers from home pour in by every mail. I read articles written by
    People Who Know, and speeches of politicians to female electors, and
    that is how I have learned that it is we Women of England who have
    won the War.

    Yet out here one cannot help noticing that the War was not waged
    entirely by the lovelier sex. And so I am writing to ask you to say
    a word or two about the work of the Brother Service, the less
    conspicuous branches of our army, the men who hauled big guns about,
    who stood in trenches, who looked after ammunition, or who killed
    mules to provide us with pressed beef. Little bits of the great
    machinery--hangers-on of the great Women's Army Corps--yes, but
    without the humble hairpin the whole coiffure falls to the ground.

    I have never been a pessimist or a scaremonger, but without some of
    these men I don't believe we women would have won the War at all!

    They ought to be encouraged, Mr. Punch. Could you not start a Muscle
    Competition for the men who helped the women win the War? Something
    like the Beauty Competitions for us other warriors? Why not offer
    prizes to the Tommy with the biggest biceps, the Subaltern with the
    thickest calf, and the Brigadier with the finest abdominal
    development?

    One is so afraid that at the next European crisis the War Office,
    having learned its history from picture papers, will simply mobilise
    the women and forget all about the men. Those absurd machine guns
    with their wobbly legs really need a man's touch. Besides, it would
    be so jolly dull without them.

    No, the men really helped, and we ought not to forget it.

    I hope that in years to come, when little voices in the firelight
    (that's a pretty touch--who says the Army has made us unfeminine?)
    beseech me, "Tell us again how you won the War, Great-grandma," I
    shall retain sufficient perspective to reply, "Granny didn't do it
    all alone, darlings; there were a lot of men who helped too."

    Yours faithfully,

    ADMINISTRATOR Q.M.A.A.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a description of our infantry's arrival in Cologne:--

    "Then came more Fusiliers, the Lancashire Fusiliers and the Royal
    Dublin Fusiliers, and after them battalions from all parts of the
    British Isles.... It was wonderfully thrilling to go from one bridge
    to the other, from skirl of pipes to the triumphant swing of 'John
    Peel,' and then to the 'Maple Leaf For Ever.'"

    Times.

And what did the Dublins play? "Erin on the Rhine"?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCH DOGS.

LXXIX.

    My dear Charles,--Old Bowdler has been brooding again on that
    idea of a brief for the defence in the forthcoming trial of the
    ex-Kaiser. He rather fancies himself cross-examining with courtesy
    but firmness some Generalissimo or other, or reducing to tears by an
    eloquent speech a court packed with everybody who is anybody, and
    in both cases having the eyes of Europe upon him and the ears of
    America hanging on his next word. After all, barristers will be
    barristers and, when they are, your ordinary man is no match for
    'em. It took another man of his own kind to knock the conceit out of
    the idea.

    Lack of precedent was no difficulty to Bowdler's learned opponent. A
    ready imagination made up. To hear him talk you would think he had
    spent his life assisting at the trials of ex-Kaisers. He described
    the whole affair as if it had already taken place. Thus:--

    The culprit, he assumed, is on bail, though not, of course, on his
    own recognizances. First, attention is called to the case by Counsel
    for the Prosecution rising early in the sitting and asking his
    Lordship if he might mention the case of WILLIAM HOHENZOLLERN, next
    on his Lordship's list.

    "William who?" asks the Clerk of Assize.

    "WILLIAM HOHENZOLLERN," answers counsel: "H-O-H-E-N-Z-O-double
    L-E-R-N."

    A titter is heard at the idea of a man going about with a name like
    that. His Lordship, regarding it as a nuisance rather than a joke,
    threatens to have the court cleared. A juryman in waiting in the
    gallery seizes the opportunity to ask, if anyone is to be turned
    out, might it be himself.

    Counsel goes on to mention the case. "A complicated case of false
    pretences, my Lord----," he begins. But his solicitor plucks at his
    gown and points out to him that he is confusing his briefs. Counsel
    apologises to the Court and asks leave to refresh his memory. In a
    passionate whisper to his solicitor he asks who is this Hohenzollern
    man, anyway, and why the devil does he want to be mentioned before
    his time? Enlightened, he explains to the Court that the accused
    has got some money together for a dock defence and would like an
    opportunity to instruct his counsel more fully.

    His Lordship refuses a postponement; Hohen-what's-his-name should
    have thought of this before. His Lordship has every confidence in
    counsel's ability to pick up the facts as the case proceeds. If
    counsel's personal convenience is involved that is another matter.
    But as for Zohenhollern--["Hohenzollern, my Lord"]--he cannot expect
    particular treatment; and that will do, thank you.

    The ushers start calling out for him to surrender to his bail:
    "Hohenzollern! Hhhohenzollern! Owen Zollern!" re-echoes throughout
    the building. "Zollern--O-N!" is heard faintly in the far distance.
    No one notices that a gentleman with a fierce moustache has already
    made his dramatic entry and is trying to push his way into the
    dock....

    He is stood up with half-a-dozen other prisoners, so that one jury
    may be sworn for the lot. It is desired that each prisoner should
    be identified with his name as it is called. WILLIAM HOHENZOLLERN,
    whichever he may be, is asked to bold up his hand. An old man in
    corduroys, who wears a dirty handkerchief round his neck for collar
    and cravat, and is charged with feloniously stealing, taking and
    carrying away his forty-first pair of boots and is also a bit 'ard
    of 'earing, insists that he is the man. As nothing will persuade
    him that he is not, the Clerk of Assize leaves it to the warders to
    decide which of the two is which. After all it is a small point.

    The case is called on and WILLIAM is left in sole possession of the
    dock. This is his moment, thinks he. With set features he stands
    forward and assumes the most important attitude possible.

    "Are you WILLIAM HOHENZOLLERN?" asks the Clerk of Assize.

    There is a pause. "I am," says he.

    Everyone turns to have a look at him. Feeling that he is thoroughly
    impressing everyone WILLIAM fixes a commanding eye on the judge,
    compelling, as he supposes, his utmost attention.

    "Let's adjourn for lunch," says the judge....

    When at last the case gets to its hearing (so far as anything at
    all can be heard over the small talk in front of the dock and the
    shuffle of impatient feet behind it) a novel point arises. A witness
    refers to the War. "What war?" asks his Lordship. Counsel thinks
    he can explain, but WILLIAM isn't for letting him. "Will you keep
    silence?" says the Judge to WILLIAM. "You must call evidence to
    prove that there was a war," he says to counsel.

    WILLIAM faints upon realising that Armageddon, his masterpiece, was
    such that judicial knowledge wasn't aware of it....

    Witness after witness is called; barrister after barrister, in the
    bar beneath the dock rail, goes to sleep. WILLIAM, after shaking off
    the stupor caused by the awful disregard of his personality, begins
    to murmur incoherently. The warder taps him on the shoulder.
    WILLIAM, who has never even conceived of being tapped by anybody,
    bursts out with an exclamation. The worst thing which has ever
    happened to him in his life then happens. Bowdler, Bowdler of all
    the un-imperial and un-godlike people in this world, turns to
    WILLIAM to rebuke him in a stern whisper, telling him that he is
    doing himself no good and concluding his remarks with "My man"....

    The trial proceeds, WILLIAM being speechless with rage. In his ears
    is ringing a Hymn of Hate--hate of everybody in the court, but
    particularly of Bowdler. Every time he can get his brain to work and
    his tongue to work with it, he leans forward to breathe some drastic
    utterance at his defending counsel. Bowdler remains detached.
    WILLIAM (late Kaiser) has to realise as a cold fact that here is
    a wretched mortal daring to sharpen a pencil while he is being
    addressed by the ALL-HIGHEST. The ALL-HIGHEST reaches over the dock
    rail to thump the wretched mortal's wretched head....

