Señor Vivaldo thought it would be a great pity to do away with such beautiful verses, and he
pleaded with Ambrosio against their consignment to oblivion. As he was speaking, he reached
out his hand for some of the papers that were close to him, and Ambrosio considerately permitted
him to keep them. The remaining ones were burned.

Señor Vivaldo glanced through the papers eagerly and read the title--"Lay of Despair." When
Ambrosio heard this, he asked him to read the words aloud that all those assembled might hear
the last verses of the dead shepherd. And while Señor Vivaldo spoke the despairing lines, some
of the shepherds were digging the grave for their friend.

CHAPTER XIV

WHEREIN ARE DESCRIBED THE DESPAIRING VERSES OF THE DEAD SHEPHERD

Señor Vivaldo had finished the last verse and was about to glance through the rest of the papers
he had saved from the fire, when suddenly on the summit of the rock by the grave he saw a most
glorious apparition. It was no other than Marcela, the shepherdess, and every-one was aghast
at her presence. The moment Ambrosio saw her, he became indignant beyond words and commanded
her to leave. But she remained and asked them all to listen to her. She had come there to defend
herself, she said; she knew what people had accused her of: cruelty, scornfulness, arrogance,
ingratitude, deception, and hatred. But she hated no one, she declared. She had deceived no
one. Crysostom had loved her because of her beauty; but she had loved neither him nor any other
man. She had chosen solitude, the woods and the fields, because of her inborn craving for freedom.
Should she have forced herself to give that up because any man chose to say, "I love you,"
while she did not love him? Was she to be blamed for Crysostom's death. For not loving him?
Would not that have been to pawn her modesty and her womanly honor and virtue? And why should
he have wanted to rob her of them?

So she spoke; and when she had finished she waited for no reply but turned and ran like a deer
into the woods. All stood gazing after her in silent admiration, not only for her beauty but
for her frank speech and good sense also.

These words Don Quixote uttered in a threatening manner, his hand on the hilt of his sword.
Whether because of his threats or because the grave had been dug and Crysostom's remains were
about to be lowered into it, they all stayed until the burial was over. The grave was closed
with a large stone, and then the shepherds strewed flowers, leaves and branches upon it, and
shed many tears.

The two travelers extended an invitation to Don Quixote to accompany them to Seville, where
they assured him he would find no end of adventures awaiting him. But he told them that for
the present he had his hands full ridding these very regions of highwaymen and robbers. He
thanked them, however, and they continued their journey without our hero.

Don Quixote now saw his duty clearly. He would search the woods and wilds for the beautiful
Marcela. He was certain that she would need his services.

But things did not turn out as he expected. They wandered about for some time and found no
trace of the shepherdess. Then they came to a pasture through which a brook was running, and
as they were both thirsty, warm, and tired, they decided to remain there for their noontide
meal. They feasted on the scraps that remained in the alforjas, while Rocinante and Sancho's
ass were left free to pluck all the grass they desired.

Now, Fate would have it that at that very hour a band of Yanguesans were resting nearby, with
their ponies let loose in the pasture. As soon as the ponies were discovered by Rocinante,
he wanted to exchange friendly greetings with them, so he set off at a brisk trot in their
direction. But the ponies seemed to have no desire to strike up an acquaintance with an unknown
hack, for they arrogantly turned their backs on him and commenced to snort and kick and bite
until the saddle fell off Rocinante and he was left quite naked. By this time the Yanguesans
had heard the commotion and rushed up, armed with sticks, and with these they thrashed poor
Rocinante so soundly that he fell to the ground in a heap.

Just at this time Don Quixote and Sancho, having finished their repast, went to look for their
chargers. As soon as Don Quixote had taken in the situation, he realized that these were no
knights errant and confided this to his squire, charging him to help him in his battle for
Rocinante's honor. Sancho made vehement pleas for abstaining from vengeance, seeing the great
numbers of the enemy; but his master's conviction that he alone counted for a hundred eased
his mind.

Don Quixote attacked at once and cut off a portion of his opponent's shoulder; Sancho fought
bravely too. But when the men saw that they were fighting such a small number they set upon
them, all at one time, and after a few thrusts they had unseated our knight and his squire,
both sorely battered. Then, fearing the hand of the law, the Yanguesans set off in great haste.

When Sancho came to, he was certain that all his bones were broken, and he feebly turned to
his master saying that he only wished that he had at hand the marvelous balsam of Fierabras,
of which his master had spoken. Sancho lamented the lack of it no more than Don Quixote, who
swore that within two days he would have the potion in his possession. As to his wounds, he
took all the blame upon himself: he felt that it was God's punishment for having engaged in
battle with ordinary rabble like these carriers, and decided that henceforth he would have
Sancho alone chastise those who had not been dubbed knights.

To this Sancho took exception, for he maintained that he had wife and children to support,
and was by nature a peaceful, meek and timid man. He called upon God to forgive in advance
all the insults man or beast might offer him in the future and for all times; but at this Don
Quixote took him to task and admonished him not to lose his valor in attacking and defending
himself in all sorts of emergencies.

Sancho's soft heart now turned to Rocinante, who had been the cause of all the trouble. The
poor horse was in a sorry plight. So it was considered best that Don Quixote--who could not
sit upright--should be slung across his servant's donkey. This decision was reached when Don
Quixote remembered that Silenus, the teacher of the God of Laughter, had entered the city of
the hundred gates mounted on a handsome ass.

When his master had been secured and Rocinante raised from the ground, Sancho took the two
beasts by the halter and led them out to the road, and from there they proceeded on their way.
Soon Sancho saw the outlines of an inn, which Don Quixote insisted must be a castle, and before
they had finished their dispute, they found themselves at the gate and entered.

CHAPTER XVI

OF WHAT HAPPENED TO THE INGENIOUS GENTLEMAN IN THE INN WHICH HE TOOK TO BE A CASTLE

When the keeper of the inn saw the sorry body of the knight on the ass, he became anxious to
learn what had happened to him. His wife was a kindly and good-natured woman, and when Sancho
had explained that his master had fallen from a rock, she and her pretty daughter offered to
care for him. The daughter, and a one-eyed Asturian servant-girl, with turned-up nose and high
cheek-bones, made a bed for Don Quixote on four rough boards in a garret, where a carrier was
also quartered. Stretched on this bed Don Quixote was attended by the innkeeper's wife, who
soon covered him with more plasters than he had quilts. In the meantime she, her daughter,
and the Asturian girl, all curious, questioned Sancho about his master.

Sancho told, in as thrilling words as he could command, of their marvelous adventures; to all
of which they listened with astonishment. The Asturian servant nearly stared her one eye out
of her head. She asked Sancho Panza, trembling with excitement, what a knight errant was. To
this Sancho replied that a knight was an adventurer, who one day might be the poorest and meanest
of men, and the next day emperor, with crowns and kingdoms in abundance to give away to his
squire and underlings. Here the women expressed surprise that he himself, judging by appearance,
did not possess even so much as a small strip of land. He then confided to them that he and
his master had been going but a short time; that as yet it was much too soon; that the adventures
they had met with so far were but a beginning and not worthy of mention.

Don Quixote, who had been listening to everything his squire said, now sat up in bed and informed
them of the great honor he had conferred upon them by being in their house; he told them of
his indescribable gratitude to them; and of his love for his Dulcinea del Toboso of La Mancha.

The women, not being accustomed to such language, which seemed to them more difficult to understand
than Greek, stared at him in bewilderment; then, thanking him for his courtesy, they left him
while the Asturian plastered Sancho, who seemed to be in need of treatment as sadly as his
master. Don Quixote himself was anxious for it too, so he sent Sancho to an imagined fortress
for some oil, wine, rosemary and salt. He mixed these ingredients in a pot, and boiled them.
Then he poured the mixture into a tin flask, crossed himself and repeated innumerable paternosters
and ave-marias. When he had nearly exhausted himself doing that, he swallowed a good portion
of the liquid; and immediately he began to vomit and perspire, while his face and body contracted
in the most horrible spasms. He asked to be put to bed at once, and they let him sleep for
three hours. When he woke he felt so relieved that he really thought he had hit upon the remedy
of Fierabras.

Seeing his master's miraculous recovery, Sancho begged to be permitted to drink some of the
wonderful liquid, and Don Quixote gave him a dose of it. Unlike his master, Sancho retained
what he had drunk for some time before letting it all come up again, but in the meantime his
agony was insufferable. He was seized with such gripings and faintness that he was sure his
last hour had come. He even cursed his master for having given him such terrible stuff; but
Don Quixote said that he had only now come to realize that the remedy was made solely for those
who had been dubbed knights: whereupon Sancho, writhing in convulsions cursed him still more.
Sancho's agony lasted for several hours.

In the meantime Don Quixote himself, being anxious for new adventures, had saddled Rocinante.
He had to help his squire mount the ass, for Sancho still was in a sorry condition. All the
folk at the inn had gathered to see them depart, and when Don Quixote's eyes fell on the beautiful
young daughter of the innkeeper, he heaved a heavy sigh; but no one there realized the soul
or the reason of it, for they all thought it must be from the pain in his ribs.

As he was about to leave, the valiant knight called the innkeeper and asked him with profound
gravity whether he had any enemies that remained unpunished; if so, he, Don Quixote, would
chastise them for him. The innkeeper answered shortly that he could take care of his own grudges;
all he asked of our knight was payment for lodging and for what he and the beasts and the squire
had consumed.

"Then this is an inn?" cried Don Quixote, who could hardly believe his ears. He ransacked his
memory for any incident when knight had ever paid for food and lodging, and, unable to remember
one, raised his lance, turned Rocinante, and set off at a quick gallop, leaving Sancho behind.

The innkeeper immediately took steps to attach the squire for the unpaid debt; but Sancho's
stolid indifference to his representations only tended to prove the truth of the old proverb:
like master, like servant. He argued that it was not for him to tear down traditions of noble
knighthood.

Unfortunately for Sancho, he was overheard by a good many guests at the inn, rollicking fellows,
who were on the alert for amusement. These men seized a blanket, dismounted the squire unceremoniously,
placed him in the middle of the blanket, and proceeded to hoist him, not gently, high in the
air. This movement no doubt caused a return of Sancho's stomach-ache, for he commenced to groan
and scream helplessly. His screams were heard far off by his master, who, believing that some
new and glorious adventure was at hand, spurred his hack into a playful gallop and returned
to the inn.

The gates were closed, but over the wall the knight could see the tricks that his faithful
follower was made to perform in the air and on the blanket, and he boiled with rage, unable
to come to the rescue, for he could not dismount because of stiffness. Finally, when the men
had been sufficiently amused, they stopped their sport, then mounted Sancho with no little
kindness on his ass and bade him godspeed on his journey. The one-eyed Asturian compassionately
offered the poor fellow some water to drink; but seeing this, Don Quixote commenced to gesticulate
wildly, waving a tin flask in the air, and crying: "Sancho, my son, drink not water, for it
will kill thee! See, here I have the blessed balsam: two drops of it will restore thee!"

His master's advice did not appeal to the squire, and he replied rather cuttingly that Don
Quixote ought to remember that he was not a knight. Saying this he put the cup the lass had
offered him to his lips. But he found that it was not wine but water. He begged her to exchange
it, which she did with Christian spirit, paying for it herself. The squire, having drunk the
wine, spurred his ass toward the gate, and the innkeeper let him depart without further payment,
having, unbeknown to Sancho, appropriated his alforjas. His being unable to get out of the
saddle and climb over the wall, he ascribed to enchantment as well. Sancho thought this might
be the moment for reforming his master. He suggested that it was harvest time at home; and
reminded the knight of the fact that of all his battles he had come out victorious but once,
when he fought with the Biscayan, and then with half of his ear lost, not to speak of all the
damage done to his armor.

But Don Quixote was in no mood to contemplate past disasters, for in the distance he suddenly
perceived rising clouds of dust, and what could it be but two opposing armies making ready
for battle; since the clouds were seen on either side of the road! He made Sancho believe they
were the great armies of the mighty emperor Alifanfaron and his enemy, the king of the Garamantas,
Pentapolin of the Bare Arm, explaining--on seeing a bare-armed shepherd--that this lord always
went into battle in this manner.

Sancho Panza asked what they should do. His master replied that their duty was clear: they
should, of course, help the weak and needy. Then he went on to explain that the reason for
the feud was the pagan Alifanfaron's wish to marry the beautiful and Christian daughter of
Pentapolin, and her father's refusal to sanction the marriage unless the emperor became a convert.
Immediately Sancho's instinct for righteousness made him declare himself for Pentapolin, and
he wanted to fight for him. This spirit pleased Don Quixote tremendously, for, he said, it
was not required of dubbed knights to engage in feuds of this sort; thus Sancho would have
a chance to distinguish himself all alone.

Scratching his head, Sancho now began to worry about his faithful donkey, for he believed it
was not good taste to go into battle mounted on an ass, and if he dismounted, he was afraid
his Dapple would be lost in the ensuing tumult. Don Quixote, however, calmed his fears. There
would be hundreds of riderless horses after the battle, from which both of them might choose;
and he asked Sancho to follow him to a hill nearby that he might point out to his valiant squire
the great and illustrious knights of the two armies. He cried out name after name, the last
one always more illustrious than the previous one. But Sancho could see nothing but the two
flocks of sheep and the shepherds, and he said so.

"How can you say that!" cried Don Quixote. "Do you not hear the neighing of the steeds, the
braying of the trumpets, the roll of the drums?"

Sancho answered in despair that he could hear nothing but the bleating of ewes and sheep. To
this his master explained that often fear deranged the senses and made things appear different
from what they were. Therefore, being certain that Sancho had suddenly become possessed of
fear, he put the spurs in Rocinante and charged down the hill like a flash of lightning, determined
to down the pagan emperor.

Lifting his lance, he galloped into the midst of the sheep, and commenced spearing right and
left. The shepherds, panic-stricken, used their slings. Stones hit his head and body, but it
was not until a large one struck him in the ribs that he imagined himself really wounded. He
stopped in the midst of the furious battle, and suddenly remembering his flask of balsam, drew
it out, put it to his mouth, and was about to swallow a quantity of it when there came a stone
that took the flask out of his hand, and another one that smashed out three or four of his
teeth. Don Quixote was so astonished and the force of the blow was so sudden that he lost his
reins and fell backwards off his horse. When the shepherds came up and saw what they had done
to him, they quickly gathered their flocks and hastened away, taking with them the seven sheep
that Don Quixote killed with his spear.

During this rampage, Sancho Panza was nearly beside himself where he stood on the hill. He
was tearing his hair and beard, wishing he had never laid eyes on his master, and berating
himself for ever having joined in his mad adventures. When the shepherds had disappeared, he
ran to his master's side.

"Did I not tell your worship," he reproached the prostrate knight, "that they were not armies,
but droves of sheep!"

But again our hero blamed his misfortune on his arch-enemy, that cursed Sage Friston, who had
falsified the armies in such a way that they looked like meek and harmless sheep. Then he begged
his squire to pursue the enemy by stealth that he might ascertain for himself that what he
had said was true; for he was sure that ere they had gone very far they would resume their
original shape.

However, before Sancho Panza had time to make up his mind whether to go or not, his master's
sip of the balsam during the battle suddenly began to take effect, and Sancho's presence became
for the moment a necessity. Having gone through this ordeal, Don Quixote rose and asked his
squire for a remedy for hunger. It was then they discovered that the alforjas had disappeared,
with all its precious contents. Both were dejected. Don Quixote tried to impart, out of the
abundance of his optimism for the future, new hope to the discouraged Sancho. It was a difficult
task, and he might have failed, had not the loss of his teeth and the sorry plight he was in
made Sancho sway from his intentions of home-going. When, at his master's request, the squire
put his finger in Don Quixote's mouth in order to learn the extent of the damage done in that
region of his body, his heart was touched by the terrible devastation there. He could not,
of course, leave his master to shift for himself on the highways in such a condition. So he
consented to remain, and they proceeded along the road, hoping that they would soon come to
a place where they could find shelter for the night, as well as something with which to still
their hunger. Suddenly, in the darkness, they saw a number of lights that came closer and closer
without their being able to make out what it was. Sancho commenced to shake like a leaf, and
even Don Quixote was frightened and muttered a paternoster between his teeth while his hair
stood on end. They withdrew to the roadside, from where they soon distinguished twenty bodies
on horseback, all dressed in white shirts, and carrying lighted torches in their hands. With
chattering teeth Sancho stared at this awe-inspiring procession, which was not yet at an end,
for behind the mounted bodies there came others, these in black and on mule-back, and surrounding
a bier, covered with a large black cloth. All the while a quiet, solemn mumbling came from
the moving figures, and Sancho Panza was now so stricken with fear that he was almost paralyzed.

Don Quixote's courage--which likewise had been rather shaky at this passing of ghostlike beings,
at such a time of the night--suddenly revived and mounted to such heights that he decided he
would ask where they were carrying the wounded king on the bier. This he did without delay.
But such a question seemed silly and out of place to one of the guardians of the corpse, and
he commanded the knight to move on. This angered Don Quixote beyond measure. He seized the
man's mule by the bridle; but this, in turn, annoyed the mule, which rose on its hind legs
and flung its rider to the ground. Another man came up to Don Quixote and tried to talk reason
to him, but to no avail, and in the disturbance that followed the procession was soon scattered
over the fields and plains, with torches glimmering from all points like so many eyes in the
black night.

While our knight errant was lunging with his spear in all directions, the meek followers of
the dead body became ensnared in their skirts and gowns and long white shirts, and fell head
over heels wherever they happened to be, in ditch or field. Moans, groans, and prayers were
intermingled, and they all were convinced that the procession had been interrupted by the devil
himself, come to carry away the body of the dead man.

When the battle had ceased, Don Quixote approached the man who was flung by his mule, to make
him his prisoner. The poor man declared that Don Quixote had made a grave mistake; that the
dead man was not a king and had not fallen in battle, but a gentleman who had died from fever;
and he himself was a poor servant of the Holy Church who could harm no one. On hearing this
confession Don Quixote made a slight apology for having mistaken him in the dark for something
evil, if not for the very devil, explaining that since it was his sworn duty to right all wrongs,
he had only set out to do so. But the worthy ecclesiastic was not easily appeased, and before
making his departure, he unceremoniously excommunicated his attacker in flowing and flourishing
Latin. Don Quixote laughed at the compliment; nevertheless he decided to adopt Sancho's meaning
name, and also to have his own rueful face commemorated on his shield at the first opportunity.

After this conversation Sancho persuaded his master to continue their journey; although Don
Quixote was eager to view the bones of the deceased man, and Sancho had some difficulty in
preventing him from doing so.

Sancho had made his coat into a sack and filled it with the provisions of the clergy; and so,
when they arrived in a valley where they found an abundance of grass, they ate all the meals
they had been missing. Their repast would have been complete had they had some wine; but they
did not have even water. He judged by the rank grass that there must be water nearby. So, leading
their mounts, Don Quixote and Sancho came in the darkness to a meadow, and they had gone only
a short distance when they heard the welcome sound of falling water. Then suddenly a most tremendous,
ear-splitting noise came out of the darkness, a din like the beating of gigantic hammers, and
added to this a shifting wind. All these furious sounds, the mystery of them, and the blackness
of the night, might have intimidated any heart, however stout; but it only made Don Quixote
leap like a flash upon his horse.

These words made Sancho weep copious tears, and he begged his master not to undertake so dreadful
an adventure. He even offered to sacrifice himself to such an extent as to go without water
for three days, if his master would only return. When Don Quixote was firm in his resolve,
Sancho decided that this was a case where the ends justified the means; therefore while tightening
Rocinante's girth, he tied the horse's forelegs, so that when Don Quixote was going to ride
off, his charger could move only by fits and starts. The more his rider spurred him, the more
impossible it became for Rocinante to stir. Sancho had no great difficulty in persuading his
master that this was a sign from above that he ought not to pursue any phantom adventure at
that hour of the night, but wait until daybreak. Don Quixote resigned himself to do so, although
it nearly made him weep, while Sancho tried to soothe his outraged feelings by telling amusing
stories in a laborious way.

At daybreak Sancho stole over to Rocinante and untied his legs. The horse immediately became
spirited, and when Don Quixote saw this, he believed it a sign from heaven. Again he took a
touching leave of his squire--who began to cry, as he had done before--and gave the spur to
his steed. Sancho was resolved to follow his master to the end, so he took his donkey by the
halter, as was his custom, and led him on foot in pursuit of his knight errant.

They passed through a meadow that was fringed with trees, then came upon some huge rocks with
cascades of water pouring over them. Below stood a row of dilapidated houses. It was from these
houses that the din and noise emanated. As Rocinante came close to the racket, he began to
make hysterical movements, pirouetting backward and forward, and Don Quixote crossed himself,
commending himself to God and his Lady Dulcinea.

Coming up cautiously from behind the houses, Don Quixote peered around the corner, and there
beheld the cause of the awe-inspiring din--six hammers of the kind that were used in mills.

Sancho could not help himself. He burst into uncontrollable laughter, shaking from head to
foot. Don Quixote was mortified with shame and astonishment. And when he heard Sancho's laughter
behind him, he broke into a rage, during which he repeated almost every word he had spoken
the night before, when he was about to ride away to adventure on a three-legged horse. But
Sancho was helpless. Four distinct times he broke into a fit of mirth, and finally his master
struck him a blow on the body with his spear. Then he calmed down, and Don Quixote scolded
him for his hilarity, saying that no such familiarity would be tolerated in the future. He
quoted various chapters from books of chivalry, and cited Gandalin, squire to Amadis of Gaul.
And there were many others to look to. He mentioned a few, the most shining examples. Then
he decreed that from that day on respect must be the barrier between squire and knight in all
their intercourse. He spoke also about his squire's wages and the treasures and islands that
were to be his in time to come. He told Sancho not to worry, for if he should not pay him his
wages, he had at any rate mentioned him in his will. From the first he had considered everything;
he knew the world, and what a hazardous task he had set before himself.

Suddenly they saw a man on horseback, who had on his head something that shone like gold, and
at once Don Quixote exclaimed: "There comes towards us one who wears on his head the helmet
of Mambrino, concerning which I took the oath thou rememberest."

Sancho's only reply to this was that he did not want anything more to do with any fulling-mills;
and his master entirely failed to fathom the connection. Sancho then said he could plainly
see that the man's horse was an ass and that the man had something on his head that shone.

The truth of the matter was that in the neighborhood were two villages so small that the apothecary
and barbershop in one of them had to serve for both. The village barber had just been summoned
to shave and bleed a patient in the adjoining community, so he mounted his ass, armed with
a brass basin for the bleeding, and set off. He had got about half-way, when it commenced to
rain. Having a new hat, he covered it with the clean basin, that glittered like gold.

But Don Quixote had more sense than his squire, of course, and pursued the unknown knight with
the helmet at Rocinante's wildest gallop. When the fear-stricken barber realized that Don Quixote's
uplifted spear was aimed at him, he promptly threw himself from his ass and ran all the way
home without stopping, leaving his brass basin behind as a trophy for our hero, who could not
understand why this helmet had no visor.

"That pagan must have had a very large head," remarked Don Quixote, turning the basin round
and round, trying to fit it to his own head, now this way, now that.

"It looks exactly like a barber's basin," said Sancho Panza, who had all he could do to keep
from bursting into laughter.

Don Quixote treated this blasphemous thought with scorn, and said he would stop at the next
smithy to have its shape changed. His next concern was his stomach; and when they found that
the barber's ass carried ample supplies, they soon satisfied their appetites. Sancho now turned
the conversation to the rest of the spoils of war; but Don Quixote was unable to make up his
mind that it was chivalrous to exchange a bad ass for a good one, as was his squire's wish;
so Sancho had to satisfy himself with the barber's trappings.

Then they set out again. Soon Sancho felt the need of unburdening something he had had on his
heart for some time. He suggested that instead of roaming about seeking adventures which no
one ever witnessed and which therefore remained unsung and unheralded, they go and serve some
great emperor engaged in war, so that their achievements and valor might go down to posterity.
This struck a resonant chord in his master's heart. In fact, he went into raptures over it,
and commenced to rant about all the great honors the future had in store for the Knight of
the Rueful Countenance. He cunningly surmised that their first task would be to find a king
who had an uncommonly beautiful daughter, for of course he had to marry a princess first of
all. The plan excited him to such an extent that for a moment he forgot about the existence
of his Dulcinea. The only thing that worried him was his royal lineage; he could not think
of any emperor or king whose second cousin he might be. Yet he decided not to trouble too much
about that; for were there not two kinds of lineages in the world? And Love always worked wonders:
it had since the beginning of time. What would the princess care, if he were a water-carrier's
son? And if his future father-in-law should object, all he would have to do would be to carry
her off by force.

As Don Quixote went on picturing himself in the most romantic rôles in the history of this
as yet unknown kingdom, Sancho began to think it was time for him to be considered as well,
when it came to bestowals of honor. Once he had been beadle of a brotherhood, and he had looked
so well in a beadle's gown, he said, that he was afraid his wife would burst with pride when
she saw him in a duke's robe, with gold and lace and precious stones. Don Quixote thought so,
too, but admonished him that he would have to shave his beard oftener, as it was most unkempt.
Sancho replied that would be an easy matter, for he would have a barber of his own, as well
as an equerry; he knew that all men of fame kept such a man, for once in Madrid he had seen
a gentleman followed by a man on horseback as if he had been his tail. He inquired why the
gentleman was being followed in that manner and learned it was his equerry. Don Quixote thought
Sancho's idea to have a barber was an excellent one, and Sancho urged his master to make haste
and find him his island, that he might roll in his glory as a count or a duke.

"Galley-slaves," remarked Sancho Panza laconically.

"If they are going against their own free will, it is a case for the exercise of my office,"
answered Don Quixote.

He approached their custodians and asked to know what crimes these men had committed against
his majesty the King. They answered it was not his business.

"Nevertheless, I should like to know," insisted Don Quixote, and he used such choice and magic
language that one of the guards was induced to give him permission to ask each one of the men
about his crime and sentence.

Don Quixote had questioned every one but the twelfth, and when he came to him he found that
he was chained in a way different from the rest. This prisoner was a man of thirty, and crossed-eyed.
His body was weighted down by very large irons and especially heavy chains, his hands were
padlocked and so secured he could not raise them. Don Quixote asked why he was thus overburdened,
and got the reply that he had committed more crimes than all the rest together. The guard then
told the knight that the man had written a story of his unfinished life, and that he was no
other than the famous Gines de Pasamonte. The culprit strongly objected to hearing his identity
mentioned, and there ensued a furious battle of words between him and the guard. The latter
lost his temper and was about to strike the slave a blow, when Don Quixote interfered, and
pleaded for more kindly treatment. It seemed only fair to him that they, with their hands tied,
might be permitted a free tongue. He grew fiery in his defense of them, reminded the guard
that there was a God in heaven who would punish all sinners. He ended by requesting their immediate
release.

This demand seemed worse than absurd to the guard, who wished him godspeed on his journey,
advised him to put the basin straight on his head, and told him not to go looking for trouble.
This was too much for our knight. He set upon his jesting adversary with such speed and suddenness
that the musket fell out of the guard's hand. And the other guards were so taken aback at what
was going on, and there was such confusion, that they did not notice Sancho untying the arch-criminal
Gines. They suddenly saw him free, and with him the rest of the slaves, who had broken the
chain; whereupon the guards fled in all directions as fast as their legs could carry them.

When the fray was over, Don Quixote asked the galley-slaves to gather around him, and to show
him reverence for the deed he had done. He further demanded that they, armed with their chains,
proceed in a body, to El Toboso to pay their respects to the fair Dulcinea. Gines attempted
to explain the necessity of each one hiding himself, separately, in order to escape the pursuers,
and offered to send up prayers for her instead; but Don Quixote would not listen to any argument.
At last Gines decided he was quite mad, and when Don Quixote started to abuse him, he lost
his temper, and they all attacked the knight with a rain of stones, until Rocinante and he
both fell to the ground. There they belabored him savagely. Sancho had taken refuge behind
his donkey, but the convicts found him, stripped him of his jacket, and left him shivering
in the cold.

While Don Quixote lay there, fearing the vengeance of the law and the Holy Brotherhood for
what he had done, he was also reviewing in rage the ingratitude of mankind and the perversity
of the iron age. When night fell they took refuge under some cork-trees between two rocks.
Fate would have it that to this very place should come that night the convict Gines. While
Sancho was slumbering peacefully, Gines stole his ass; and by daybreak the thief was already
far away. Don Quixote, awakened by sorrowful wailing, in order to console his squire, promised
him three of his ass-colts at home in exchange. Then Sancho's tears stopped. But he now had
to travel on foot behind his master, and he tried to keep up his humor by munching the provisions
it had become his lot to carry.

Suddenly he observed that his master had halted, and was poking with his lance into some object
lying on the road. He quickly ran up to him and found an old saddle-pad with a torn knapsack
tied to it. Sancho opened it covetously and came upon four shirts of excellent material, articles
of linen, nearly a hundred gold crowns in a handkerchief, and a richly bound little memorandum
book. The little volume was all that Don Quixote kept for himself. Brimful of curiosity, he
read it through and learned that it contained the bemoanings of a rejected lover.

Meantime Sancho Panza's great discovery of the gold coins had entirely banished from his memory
all the suffering and pain and humiliation he had had to go through since he had became a squire.
But Don Quixote was anxious to find out something about the owner of the knapsack, for he was
convinced there was some very strange adventure connected with his disappearance. And as he
was planning what to do, he perceived on the summit of a great height, a man, half-naked, jumping
with remarkable swiftness and agility from rock to rock.

Don Quixote saw no way of getting there, so he stood for some time pondering what to do. Then
he saw above him on the mountainside a flock of goats, tended by an elderly goatherd. Calling
to him, the knight asked him to come down, and the old man descended, amazed at seeing human
beings there. Don Quixote immediately began to ask about the strange half-naked man he had
seen, and the goatherd told what he knew of him and the mystery of the knapsack.

The stranger, he said, was a youth of good looks and no doubt of high birth, who had lost his
wits because of the faithlessness of a friend. His behavior was such that they had never seen
the like of it. In fits of madness he would approach people, snatch away food offered him out
of their hands, and then run away with the speed of a deer. Then again he would come begging
for food, the tears flowing down his cheeks.

Now, while they were standing there discussing the young man, chance would have it that he
came along, and greeted them courteously. Don Quixote returned his greeting with grand gestures,
descended from Rocinante's tired back, and advanced to the youth with open arms. He held him
in his embrace for some time, as if he had known him forever. Finally the youth tore away and,
placing his hands on the shoulders of the Knight of the Rueful Countenance, the youth, who
might be called the Ragged One of the Sorry Countenance, looked into his eyes and spoke to him.

CHAPTER XXIV

IN WHICH IS CONTINUED THE ADVENTURE OF THE SIERRA MORENA

The Ragged One thanked Don Quixote for being so kind and courteous; and Don Quixote replied
that his duty to the world consisted in giving succor to those in despair and need. He implored
the youth to tell him the name of the one who had caused his misfortune, that he might revenge
him. The Ragged One stared at him strangely and said: "If you will give me to eat, I will tell
you my story."

Sancho and the goatherd gave the youth something to appease his hunger; and he ate it ravenously.
When he had finished, he motioned to them to follow him, and they came to a spot where green
grass grew and all stretched themselves on the ground in silence. Before he began his story,
the youth warned them not to interrupt him, for then it would come to an end. Don Quixote promised
solemnly for all of them.

The youth told of his love for one Luscinda, and how his best friend, Don Fernando, son of
a grandee of Spain, had stolen her love away from him; but suddenly he was interrupted by Don
Quixote, and refused to continue. Whereupon Don Quixote nearly lost his senses--for his curiosity
was aroused beyond words--and called the Ragged One a villain.

The Ragged One broke into a violent fit when he heard himself called names and picked up a
stone which he hurled against the knight errant's breast with such force that it placed him
flat on his back. Seeing this, Sancho Panza flew at the madman; but the youth seemed to possess
supernatural strength, for he felled Sancho to the ground with one single blow, and then jumped
on his chest and buckled his ribs. Having also beaten the old goatherd, he went into the woods
again.

When Sancho had seen the last of him, he turned loose his rage on the poor old goatherd, whom
he cursed for not having warned them that the youth might be taken with fits. Words led to
blows; the two grabbed each other by their beards, and had it not been for Don Quixote, their
fray might have had a sad ending. He calmed his squire by absolving the old man of all blame.
Then he asked him--for he was still aching with curiosity to learn the end of the story--whether
he knew where he might find Cardenio (that being the youth's name). The goatherd answered that
if he remained in the neighborhood long enough he could not help meeting him; but as to his
mood, he could not answer for that. Finally he requested his master's permission to say what
was in his heart, and Don Quixote removed the ban under which his squire was suffering. Sancho
asked for the knight's blessing and begged leave to return to his wife and home; but his master
could not make up his mind until he hit upon a great inspiration, the carrying out of which
made necessary his using Sancho as a messenger to his incomparable Dulcinea.

Don Quixote, in short, had decided to go mad, in emulation of other bold knights, such as Roland
and Amadis--a decision that extracted from Sancho Panza some muttered words to the effect that
any one who could mistake a barber's basin for a gold helmet could not go much madder. And
then Don Quixote explained to what sufferings, sorrow, penance, and folly he would subject
himself; and quite unintentionally he revealed to Sancho the real identity of his famous Lady
Dulcinea, whom Sancho had always thought a princess. Now the good squire learned to his dismay
that the famous Dulcinea was no other than Lorenzo Corchuelo's daughter, Aldonza Lorenzo, a
lady with manners like a man, and a man's ability to handle a crowbar easily.

When Don Quixote had determined upon his penance in the wilderness, all for the sake of Dulcinea,
he thought it would be a good idea to make known to her the sacrifices and sufferings he was
about to undergo for her sake. Therefore he granted his squire the requested permission to
return to his family, and bade him speed homeward on Rocinante, so that he himself, horseless,
might undergo an even greater penance. He sent a letter by Sancho to his fair one, relating
to her the pain of his wounded heart; a pain enhanced by self-inflicted absence and to be ended
only by death, to satisfy her cruelty.

Sancho's covetousness did not permit his master to forget the three promised ass-colts; so
Don Quixote wrote an order to his niece in the notebook of the ill-starred Cardenio.

Before they parted, Don Quixote asked Sancho to stay and see some of the insanities he meant
to perform in his absence. He then stripped to the skin and went through some remarkable capers
before his squire. This exhibition nearly brought tears to Sancho's eyes, and he besought him
to stop. And when he expressed a fear that he would not be able to find his way back, Don Quixote
assured him that he would remain in that very spot, or thereabouts, until the squire returned
from El Toboso; and he told him also to cut some branches and strew them in his path. Furthermore
he said he would be on the lookout for him from the peak of the highest cliff.

When Sancho finally took leave of his master, he felt that he could swear with unprotesting
conscience that his beloved master was quite mad. So he decided to change them, and instead
of imitating Roland and his fury, he turned to the more melancholy Amadis, whose madness was
of a much milder form and needed a less strenuous outlet. But to imitate Amadis, he had to
have a rosary, and he had none. For a moment he was in a quandary; but a miracle gave him the
inspiration to use the tail of his shirt--which was too long anyhow--and tearing off a long
piece, on which he made eleven knots, he repeated quantities of credos and ave-marias on it,
there in the wilderness. His love would at times drive him to write verses to his cruel and
beloved one on the bark of the trees, all the while he would make moaning sounds of lovesickness.
Again he would go about sighing, singing, calling to the nymphs and fauns and satyrs, and,
of course, looking for herbs to nourish himself with.

But while Don Quixote exiled himself in the wilds, his servant Sancho Panza was making for
El Toboso. On the second day he found himself at the inn at which the incident of his blanket
journey had taken place. The smell of food reminded him that it was dinner time; yet he hesitated
about entering. As he was standing there, along came two men; and one of them was heard to
say: "Is not that Sancho Panza?" "So it is," said the other one; and it turned out to be the
curate and the barber of Don Quixote's own village.

At once they approached him. They asked him about his master, but it was not until they had
threatened to believe that he had robbed and murdered Don Quixote--for was he not mounted on
Rocinante?--that he divulged the secret of his master's hiding-place. He told them of everything;
even about his master's strange and unbounded love for the daughter of Lorenzo Corchuelo and
the letter he had written to her. When the curate asked to see it, Sancho could not find it;
and then he suddenly remembered that Don Quixote had given him neither the letter nor the order
for the ass-colts. He turned pale and green, and beat his chest frantically, but it produced
no miracle. The curate and the barber told him that the only thing to do was to find Don Quixote
and get him to write them anew; and the thought of losing the ass-colts made Sancho only too
anxious to return.

When the squire had been comforted somewhat, he tried to recite Don Quixote's epistle of love;
and his recital amused the two friends to such a degree that he had to repeat it thrice, each
time adding new absurdities. Finally they invited him to come into the inn and eat, while they
talked over the journey to their friend's wilderness paradise of penitence. Sancho was quick
to refuse; but he gave no reason for so doing. He said he preferred to eat outside and asked
that they bring him the food, and also some barley for Rocinante.

While the barber was serving Sancho and Rocinante, the curate was developing a plan of strategy
which was unanimously adopted by all concerned. It was arranged that the curate should invade
the region of knightly penitence, dressed as an innocent-looking maiden with a masked countenance;
while his friend the barber should appear on the scene behaving like a squire. The bogus maiden
should be in great distress and ask for protection, when Don Quixote, valiant knight that he
was, would be sure to give it. She would then beg him to shield her on her journey, and, as
a favor, to ask her no questions regarding her identity, until she was safely at home. Once
they had him there, they would try to find a cure for his strange madness. The landlady recognized
Don Quixote by the description the curate gave, and willingly furnished the clothes, and an
ox-tail out of which the barber made himself a beard. As security for these things the curate
left behind a brand-new cassock.

When the curate's transfiguration was completed, however, his conscience began to trouble him;
so it was agreed that he and the barber were to change rôles. The curate shed his female attire,
and the barber decided not to don it until they approached the mountainside. Meanwhile Sancho
was instructed as to how to act and what to say, when he saw his master.

The day after they set out, they came to the place where Sancho's branches were strewn. The
curate thought it best that they send Sancho ahead to take to his master Lady Dulcinea's reply;
this was agreed to, and Sancho left.

While the two conspirators were resting in the shade of some trees they were suddenly startled
by hearing a man singing in the distance. It was clearly a voice trained in the art of singing,
and the verses he sang were not of rustic origin. Soon they perceived the singer, and it was
no other than Cardenio, the Ragged One. Now he was untouched by madness, for he spoke quite
sanely, telling them of his woeful misfortune, the memory of which, he said, would sometimes
overpower and strangle his senses. The curate and the barber were both eager to know the story
of the comely youth's life, and he then told them of the faithlessness of his friend. This
time he was not interrupted, and he finished his story, which was one of a great love as much
as one of misfortune. He had just reached the end, when from no great distance came the sound
of a lamenting voice.

CHAPTER XXVIII

WHICH TREATS OF THE STRANGE AND DELIGHTFUL ADVENTURES THAT BEFELL THE CURATE AND THE BARBER
IN THE SAME SIERRA

When Cardenio and the curate and the barber looked about they discovered a youth with exquisite,
delicate features bathing his feet in the brook below them. His garb was that of a peasant
lad; on his head he had a montera. Having finished bathing, he took from under the montera
a cloth with which he dried his feet. In removing the cap there fell from under it a mass of
auburn hair, and all were amazed to find that instead of a youth, it was a most lovely maiden.
In their astonishment either the curate or the barber uttered a cry; and frightened at the
sight of them, the girl took to flight, but soon stumbled and fell.

The curate was the first one to reach her. He spoke some kind words and told her that they
were there to help her, to fulfill any wish she might express. And he begged her to cast away
any pretence, for he was certain that she was there because of some misery that had befallen her.

At first the maiden seemed bewildered, but after a while she showed that the curate had gained
her confidence, and she spoke to him in a beautiful, melancholy voice. She seated herself on
a stone, while the three gathered around her, and confided to them with tears in her eyes the
reasons for her being there. She told them of a certain grandee of Spain, living in Andalusia,
of whom her father, lowly in birth but rich in fortune, was a vassal. This grandee had two
sons. She had been betrothed to the younger one of these, Don Fernando, and he had jilted her
in favor of a lady of noble birth, whose name was Luscinda.

When Cardenio heard his own lady's name, he bit his lips and tears came to his eyes. Dorothea--for
that was the maiden's name--wondered at such interest and such emotion, but she continued her
story. She told of how, upon Don Fernando's marriage to lady Luscinda, she had fled in despair
from house and home. A herdsman in the heart of the Sierra had given her employment as a servant;
but when he had discovered that she was a woman, she was forced to leave. While she was bemoaning
her evil fate, and praying to God in the woods, she had cut her feet on the stones; and she
was bathing them in the brook when she encountered the present gathering. When she had ended
it, the curate arose to console her; but Cardenio was already at her side.

"Are you not the daughter of the rich Clenardo?" he asked of her eagerly.

She gazed at him in wonder, for she had not spoken her father's name. She asked the youth who
he might be, and he told her that he was the Cardenio who had been wronged by Don Fernando,
the faithless friend and faithless lover; and he swore then and there a holy oath that he should
see her married to Don Fernando or the latter would perish by his, Cardenio's, sword. Dorothea
was moved to tears by the youth's words and thanked him profusely. The curate then made the
suggestion that both of them return with him and the barber to their village where they could
make further plans as to what to do to set things aright. And Dorothea and Cardenio accepted
this kind offer gratefully.

Sancho was now seen arriving, and the curate told the youth and the maiden the reason for his
being there. He explained to them the curious nature of Don Quixote's madness, and Cardenio
mentioned to the curate his meeting with the knight.

Sancho had found Don Quixote nearly dead with hunger, crying aloud for his Dulcinea; and when
his squire entreated him in her name to return to El Toboso, he refused, declaring that his
penitence was not yet complete; that he was not yet worthy of her favor. Sancho was quite worried
lest he should lose his island and his titles and all the other honors he had expected, and
the curate did his best to calm his fears. The good man then explained to Cardenio and Dorothea
how they had planned to take Don Quixote back to his home by persuading him to go there on
an adventure in aid of a distressed damsel.

Dorothea at once offered to play the part of the damsel. Having read a good many books of chivalry,
herself, she thought she could qualify in asking favors of our knight. She had brought with
her a complete woman's dress, with lace and rich embroidery, and when Sancho Panza saw her
in her new array, he asked, in astonishment, what great lady she might be. The curate replied
that she was the ruler of the great kingdom of Micomicon, and after having been dethroned by
an evil giant had come all the way from Guinea to seek the aid of Don Quixote. Immediately
Sancho's hope for his titles and possessions was revived, for the thought of his master's fame
having spread to such distant parts seemed most encouraging.

While Sancho Panza was entertaining these visions, Dorothea mounted the curate's mule, and
the barber decorated himself with the ox-tail for a beard. Sancho was told to lead the way,
and the curate explained to him that the success of their mission depended on him. He was warned
that he must not give away the identity of the curate and the barber; if he did, the empire
would be lost. And then they started out, leaving the curate and Cardenio behind, as that was
thought best.

They had gone almost a league when they saw Don Quixote on a rock, clothed, but wearing no
armor. Dorothea was helped from her horse. She walked over to Don Quixote and knelt before
him; and she told him the errand that had brought her there, saying that she would not rise
until he had granted her the boon she was asking. While she was kneeling before him, Sancho
Panza was anxiously whispering to Don Quixote bits of information about her and her kingdom,
afraid that his master might refuse her; but, demented though he was, rank and riches mattered
little to Don Quixote, for he drew his sword, he said, in defense of anything that was righteous,
and the meek and downtrodden always found in him a ready and courteous defendant. When he learned
from the Princess that a big giant had invaded her kingdom, he at once granted her the promise
of his services. Dorothea wanted to kiss his hand as a proof of her gratitude; but Don Quixote
would not permit her to do this, being ever a respectful and courteous knight. He commanded
his squire to saddle his horse immediately, while he put on his armor, mounted, and was ready
for the crusade.

They set out, Sancho on foot, cheerfully grinning to himself at the covetous thought of all
the possessions that would be his in a short time. Soon they passed the place where Cardenio
and the curate were hiding. The curate had by this time conceived the idea of shearing Cardenio
of his beard that Don Quixote would be unable to recognize him; and he had furnished him with
his own grey jerkin and a black cloak, so that he himself appeared in breeches and doublet
only. Having effected the change, they took a short-cut through the woods and came out on the
open road ahead of Don Quixote.

As he approached them, the curate feigned astonishment beyond words at seeing his old friend;
and Don Quixote was so surprised that he hardly recognized the curate. He courteously offered
Rocinante to him, but the curate remonstrated and finally accepted the long-bearded squire's
mule, inviting the squire to sit behind him. This arrangement did not please the mule, however,
for he commenced to kick with his hind legs. Luckily the beast did not damage the barber, but
the demonstration frightened him so that he turned a somersault in a ditch. In so doing, his
beard came off, but he had enough presence of mind to cover his face at the same moment, crying
that his teeth were knocked out. When Don Quixote saw the beard on the ground without any sign
of flesh or blood, he was struck with amazement, and thought that the barber had been shaved
by a miracle.

The curate hastened breathlessly to the barber's side, and began to mumble incomprehensible
words, while the barber was groaning on the ground in an uncomfortable position. When the barber
finally rose, Don Quixote's eyes nearly fell out of their sockets, for he beheld the barber
bearded again. He begged the curate to teach him the charm that could produce such a miracle,
and the curate promised he would. Then they proceeded on the journey.

The curate now began to wonder about the road (all this was pre-arranged) and said that in
order to go to the kingdom of Micomicon, they had to take the road to Cartagena, where they
would embark on a ship. That, he said, would take them through his own village, and from there
it was a journey of nine years to Micomicon. Here the Princess corrected him, saying that it
had taken her only two years to make the journey here, in quest of the noble and famous knight
who had now sworn to restore her kingdom to her.

Don Quixote at this moment happened to observe the light attire of the curate, and was curious
to know the reason for it. Whereupon the curate (having learned of the incident through Sancho)
related how he and Master Nicholas, on their way to Seville, had been held up by a gang of
liberated galley-slaves. These criminals, it was said, had been set free by a man on horseback,
as brave as he was bold, for he had fought off all the guards, single-handed. The curate criticized
this man heartlessly, called him a knave and a criminal for having set himself against law
and order and his king, and expressed a belief that he could not have been in his right mind.
The Holy Brotherhood, he said further, was searching for him now, and he himself was afraid
that the man's soul would be lost. He finished his story by calling upon the Lord to pardon
this unregenerate being who had taken away the galley-slaves from the punishment that had been
meted out to them by justice.

Don Quixote seemed to take the curate's sermon to heart, and bent his head humbly, not daring
to admit that he was the culprit, and not knowing that the curate knew it. So he confessed
then and there his own and his master's guilt, much to the shame and anger of Don Quixote.
The Princess was quick to sense the danger, and she calmed our hero before his anger had risen
to any great height, by reminding him of his promise, and how he had sworn to engage in no
conflict of any kind until her kingdom had been saved. He answered her with infinite courtesy
and expressed his regrets for having let his anger get the better of him; he would stand by
his word. Then he asked her to tell him all that she could about herself and her kingdom. She
would willingly do that, she said, and began her story.

But she came very near ending it then and there, for she could not remember the name she had
assumed. Luckily the curate--who had invented her long and difficult name--was there to prompt
her, and the situation was saved. Having told Don Quixote that her name was Princess Micomicona,
she continued her story, relating how she was left an orphan, how a certain giant and lord
of an island near her kingdom had asked for her hand in marriage and she had refused, how his
forces had overrun her country and she had fled to Spain, where it had been predicted by a
magician she would find a certain great knight errant by the name of Don Quixote, otherwise
called the Knight of the Rueful Countenance, who would be recognized by a gray mole with hairs
like bristles under the left shoulder.

Immediately upon hearing this, Don Quixote wanted to strip, but Sancho assured them that he
did have just such a mark. Dorothea said she was quite sure he must, for in other respects
the description that the magician had given fitted him; and she hastened to relate to him how
she had first heard of him on her landing at Osuna. But evidently the pretended Princess had
not been as careful a student of geography as Don Quixote, who was quick to ask her: "But how
did you land at Osuna, señorita, when it is not a seaport?" And Dorothea immediately corroborated
the curate's explanation with great self-assurance.

However, she thought it best to end her story here, for fear of complications, and only added
how happy she was to have found him so soon. She also pointed out, demurely enough, that it
had been predicted if after having cut off the giant's head the knight should ask her to marry
him, she would accept. But Don Quixote said he would be true to his Dulcinea; and this made
Sancho exclaim with dismay that he was out of his head, for Dulcinea could never come up to
this fair princess.

Sancho's remark angered his master so intensely that he knocked him to the ground with his
spear; and if the Princess had not interfered the unfortunate squire might never again have
been able to say his ave-marias or credos or, more to the point, have eaten another square
meal. He was quick to cry out that he had meant no ill by what he said, and acting upon the
suggestion of the Princess, he kissed his master's hand.

At this moment a man, mounted on an ass, was seen on the road, and Sancho, no doubt feeling
instinctively the proximity of his beloved animal, recognized in the man Gines de Pasamonte.
Wildly shouting, he set out after the galley-slave, who threw himself off the ass at Sancho's
first shout. Sancho, crying with joy, was so glad to have his faithful donkey returned to him
that he did not pursue the thief. And Don Quixote himself was so pleased that he entirely forgot
about his quarrel with Sancho. He called him to his side, and asked him to repeat everything
his Dulcinea had told him, over and over again. Sancho replied that the only jewel Dulcinea
had given him was some bread and cheese; whereupon Don Quixote remarked that no doubt she had
had no jewels at hand. He expressed wonder at the speedy trip Sancho had made, to which Sancho
replied that Rocinante had gone like lightning; and Don Quixote then was sure some friendly
enchanter had carried him through the air.

CHAPTERS XXXII-XXXIV

WHICH TREATS OF WHAT BEFELL ALL DON QUIXOTE'S PARTY AT THE INN

The following day they reached the inn. The landlady at once wanted her ox-tail back, so it
was decided that the barber should hereafter appear in his own true character, having supposedly
arrived at the inn after the galley-slaves' hold-up.

Don Quixote was tired, and was given a bed in the garret where he had slept once before. While
the others were having dinner, the landlady was confidentially telling all who would listen
of Don Quixote's absurdities during his previous visit, and also of Sancho Panza's being juggled
in the blanket. And while the curate was discussing Don Quixote's madness, the innkeeper confided
to him that he himself had a weakness for reading about deeds of the past, particularly stories
of chivalry. Often, he said, he would read aloud from these books to his family and servants.
He had just read a novel entitled "Ill-Advised Curiosity," which he had found very interesting.
He showed the manuscript of it to the curate, who seemed to think it might make very good reading
and expressed a desire to copy it. Whereupon the innkeeper asked him whether he would not read
it aloud to them; and as they were all eager to hear it, the curate commenced the reading of
the manuscript. TO AN END

The curate had almost finished the reading of the novel, (which consumed all of the two chapters
which are omitted here) when Sancho Panza burst into the room, excitedly shouting that his
master was having the wildest battle he had ever seen, up in the garret. He pleaded for reinforcements,
and wanted them all to join in conquering the enemy who, he declared, was no other than the
fierce giant that had invaded the kingdom of Micomicon. He said he had left just as his master
had cut the giant's head clean off with his sword, leaving the beast to bleed like a stuffed pig.

While Sancho was relating his blood-curdling story, a tremendous noise and loud exclamations
poured forth from the garret, and the innkeeper, suddenly remembering all the many wine-skins
he had hung up there on the previous night sprang out of his chair and toward the scene of
action, followed by the rest.

The worst that the innkeeper might have feared was true; for there, on the garret floor, was
a sea of red wine, with hosts of empty skins floating about upon it. In the middle of the sea
stood Don Quixote, sword in hand, slashing right and left, dressed in nothing but his shirt.
But the strangest thing of all was not his attire, but the fact that he was fast asleep, his
eyes shut tightly, dreaming that he had already arrived in the distant realm of the Princess
Micomicona and had encountered the giant enemy.

Seeing all his precious wine floating away, the innkeeper became enraged and set upon Don Quixote
with his bare fists; but the beating had no effect on the knight except, perhaps, that it made
him sleep more soundly. It was not until the barber had drenched him in cold water that he
came to his senses.

The Princess Micomicona, who had been listening to the saving of her kingdom outside the door,
became eager, after she had heard the tempest subside, to enter and see the conquered giant;
but she retired hastily and with a slight exclamation of horrified modesty on seeing the abbreviated
length of her defender's night-shirt, the tail of which had been sacrificed to his prayers
in the wilderness.

The landlord, cursing his luck, swore that this time the knight errant and his squire should
not escape without paying. But Don Quixote, whose hand the curate was holding in an endeavor
to calm him, merely fell on his knees before the curate, exclaiming: "Exalted and beautiful
Princess! Your Highness may now live in peace; for I have slain the giant!" He imagined that
he was at the feet of Micomicona. Soon after having spoken thus, he showed signs of great weariness,
and the curate, the barber and Cardenio carried him to his bed, where he fell asleep.

Next they had to console Sancho, who was grief-stricken because he had been unable to find
the giant's head. He swore he had seen it falling when his master cut it off, and imagined
that if it could not be produced there would be no reward for either him or his master; but
Dorothea, in her rôle of Princess, calmed and comforted him.

All this time the innkeeper's wife was crying about the ox-tail, which, she said, had lost
its usefulness after having served as beard, and the innkeeper was demanding that he be paid
for the spilt wine and other losses. The curate assured them that he himself would see to it
that they were reimbursed for everything; and when the excitement in the inn had simmered down,
and everybody had gathered again in the room where they had heard the curate read from "Ill-Advised
Curiosity," he was asked to resume the reading. This he did; and they all thought it a very
entertaining story and listened intensely to what the curate was reading.

CHAPTER XXXVI

WHICH TREATS OF MORE CURIOUS INCIDENTS THAT OCCURRED AT THE INN

At this moment there was a sound of people approaching on horseback, and the innkeeper rushed
to the gate to receive the guests. There were four men, with lances and bucklers, and black
veils for their faces; a woman, dressed in white and also veiled, and two attendants on foot.
One of the four, a gentleman of distinction, helped the lady to dismount, and they entered the inn.

As they came into the room where the curate had just finished reading the novel of "Ill-Advised
Curiosity," Dorothea covered her face, and Cardenio left and went to the garret. As the gentleman
seated the lady in a chair, she heaved a deep sigh. Her arms fell limply by her side. The curate
was curious to know who these people were, so he asked one of the servants that accompanied
them. But none of them knew, for they had met the travelers on the road, they said, and had
been offered employment at good pay. They added that they feared the lady was being taken somewhere
against her will, as she had done nothing but sigh all through the journey, and had exchanged
no words whatever with her escort.

Dorothea, hearing the lady sigh repeatedly, felt compassion for her, and asked her whether
there was anything that she could do for her. But although she asked her the question several
times, she got no reply.

When the gentleman with the distinguished bearing observed that Dorothea was interested in
this lady, he told her it was useless to bother with her, for her answers were all lies and
anything done for her would be rewarded with ingratitude. This remark was speedily answered
by the lady, who retorted. "I have never told a lie. On the contrary, it is because I am truthful
and cannot lie that I am now in this miserable condition. And you are the lying one!"

Cardenio was in the adjoining room, just returning from the garret, and when he heard these
words he exclaimed: "Good God! What is this I hear! It is her voice!"

The lady heard the exclamation, and seeing no one, she became agitated and rose, but was held
back by the gentleman. Her veil suddenly fell off, and every one could see her face, which
was one of alabaster-like whiteness and great beauty. And while the gentleman was struggling
to keep her from leaving the room, his own veil became unfastened and Dorothea saw that he
was no other than her own lover, Don Fernando. The moment she recognized him she fainted, and
the barber caught her, or she would have fallen to the floor. The curate was quick to throw
some water on her face, and she soon came to. As soon as Cardenio heard the commotion, he rushed
in from the other room, imagining that the worst had happened to his Luscinda--for it was no
other than she--and it was a curious thing to see the four suddenly finding themselves face
to face.

Luscinda was the first one to speak, and she implored Don Fernando to take her life, so that
her beloved Cardenio might believe that she had been true and loyal and faithful to him until
the very last.

When Dorothea heard Luscinda speak thus, she fell on her knees before Don Fernando and implored
him to reconsider everything that he had done that was base and wrong and sinful. She pleaded
with tears in her eyes, begging him to give up Luscinda to her faithful Cardenio, told him
how much she still loved him in spite of his wrong-doing, and said she would forgive him everything
if he would only let his real and better nature come into its own. And her tears and sincerity
moved Don Fernando so that he himself wept, and he promised to abide by the ending which Fate
itself seemed to have provided for by bringing them all together in this strange way.

He told Luscinda that when he had found the paper in which she declared she could never be
the wife of any other man than Cardenio, he was tempted to kill her, but was prevented by chance.
He had left the house in a rage, and had not returned home till the following day, when he
found that she had disappeared. Some months later he learned that she had taken refuge in a
convent. He gathered the companions they had seen at the inn, and with their help he carried
her from the convent. Now he repented of what he had done, prayed he might be permitted forever
to live with his Dorothea, and asked them all for forgiveness. Then he gave his blessing to
the overjoyed Cardenio and Luscinda, who were both so affected at their reunion that they shed
tears. Even Sancho was weeping, although for quite another reason. He was grieved to find his
Princess Micomicona suddenly lose her royal identity and turn out to be a mere lady. Dejected,
he approached Don Quixote, who had just awakened, and said: "Sir Rueful Countenance, your Worship
may as well sleep on, without troubling yourself about killing or restoring her kingdom to
the Princess; for that is all over and settled now."

Don Quixote agreed with his squire enthusiastically, and then told him of the tremendous battle
he had just had with the giant, dwelling particularly upon the great amount of blood that flowed
when the giant's head was cut off.

"Red wine, your Worship means," said Sancho, "and no less than twenty-four gallons, all of
which has to be paid for! The Princess your Worship will find turned into a private lady named
Dorothea; and there is much more that will astonish your Worship."

Whereupon there ensued a rich and varied conversation between master and servant. When Don
Quixote heard his squire confound blood with wine, he called him a fool. And when he heard
that his Princess had turned into a simple Dorothea, the fears he had entertained during his
past visit to the inn, began to return, and he decided that the place was enchanted. But of
that his squire could not be convinced, for the episode of the blanketing still remained a
most vivid reality to him. Had it not been for that, he repeated, he could have believed it
readily.

Meanwhile the curate had been telling Don Fernando and the others of Don Quixote's strange
malady; he described how they had succeeded in taking him away from the wilderness and his
self-inflicted penance, and told them all the strange adventures he had heard Sancho relate.
They were greatly amused and thought it the most remarkable craze they had ever heard of. Don
Fernando was eager that Dorothea should continue playing her part, and they all decided to
come along on the journey to the village in La Mancha.

At this moment Don Quixote entered in his regalia, the barber's basin on his head, spear in
hand, and with the buckler on his arm. Don Fernando was struck with astonishment and laughter
at the sight of the mixed armament and the peculiar long yellow face of the knight. After a
silence, Don Quixote turned to Dorothea and repeated his vow to regain her kingdom for her.
He said he approved heartily of the magic interference of the spirit of the king, her father,
who had devised this new state of hers, that of a private maiden, in which guise she would
no doubt be more secure from evil influence on her journey to her home.

His ignorant squire broke in when his master related of his battle in the garret, and inferred
irreverently and rather loudly that he had attacked wine-skins instead of giants, but Don Fernando
quickly made him be quiet. Dorothea rose and thanked our rueful knight at the end of his speech
for the renewed offer of his sword.

Having listened to her lovely voice, Don Quixote turned angrily to his squire and reprimanded
him for being a disbeliever, saying that he could now judge for himself what a fool he had
made of himself. Sancho replied that he hoped he had made a mistake about the Princess not
being a princess, but that as to the wine-skins, there could be no doubt, for the punctured
skins he had seen himself at the head of Don Quixote's bed--and had not the garret floor been
turned into a lake of wine? Whereupon his master swore at his stupidity, until Don Fernando
interrupted and proposed that they spend the evening in pleasant conversation at the inn instead
of continuing their journey that night.

While that was being agreed upon, two travelers, a man and a woman, dressed in Moorish fashion,
came to the inn. They asked for rooms overnight, but were told there were none to be had. Dorothea
felt sorry for the strange lady--whose face was covered with a veil--and told her that she
and Luscinda would gladly share their room with her. The lady rose from her chair, bowed her
head and made a sign with her hands as if to thank them; and they concluded, because of her
silence, that she could not speak their language. At this moment her companion returned to
her and, seeing her surrounded by the guests at the inn, he confirmed what they had thought,
for he made the remark that it was useless to address any questions to her as she could speak
no other tongue than her own. They explained that they had asked no questions, but had only
offered her quarters for the night. When the stranger learned this, it seemed to please him
very much, and he thanked them profusely.

As they were all curious to know who the lady was, they asked the stranger whether or not she
was a Christian. He replied that while she was not, she wished to become one; and he informed
them that she was a lady of high rank from Algiers. This excited a desire to see her face as
well as to know whom she might be, and Dorothea could not resist the temptation of asking her
to remove her veil. When her companion had told her Dorothea's desire, and the Moorish lady
had removed her veil, they all stood in awe, for they beheld a face that seemed to them lovelier
than any they had ever beheld before. Don Fernando asked her name, and the stranger replied
it was Lela Zoraida; but when the fair lady heard him speak this name, she exclaimed emphatically
that she was called Maria and not Zoraida. Luscinda embraced her in a loving way and said they
would call her by that name.

The supper was now ready and all placed themselves at a long table, at the head of which Don
Quixote was asked to seat himself. At his request Dorothea--as the Princess Micomicona in disguise--sat
on his right. All were merry and content and many pleasantries were passed. But suddenly Don
Quixote stopped eating, rose, and with inspiration in his eyes and voice, began a long discourse
on knight-errantry, reviewing the great good it had done for mankind. The language he used
was so perfect, his manners so free and easy, and his delivery possessed of such charm, that
his listeners could hardly make themselves believe they were in the presence of one who was
demented. These things almost made him despair of success for his revival of chivalry in this
age, he said; for while guns and artillery could instill no fear in his breast, they did make
him feel uneasy, as one never knew when a bullet, intended for some one else, might cut off
one's life. The very worst of such a death, he maintained, was that the bullet might have been
discharged by a fleeing coward. And so he pledged himself again, in spite of all the things
he had to struggle against, not to give up what he had undertaken to do: to set the world aright
in accordance with the principles of knight-errantry.

All the while that Don Quixote was discoursing, Sancho was much concerned because he neglected
his food. He broke in whenever he had an opportunity, and admonished his master that he would
have much time for talking after he had eaten.

When they had finished their supper, the landlord informed them that he had re-arranged their
quarters in order to accommodate all, and that the three women might sleep in the garret, as
Don Quixote gallantly had given up his quarters to them. Their interest then turned again to
the stranger. Don Fernando asked him some questions about his life, and he replied that while
his life-story would be interesting, it might not afford them much enjoyment. However, he said,
he would tell it if they so wished. The curate begged that he do so; and, seeing the interest
of all, the stranger mentioned by way of introduction that while his was a true story, many
a story of fiction would seem tame and less strange in comparison. And while all of the company
expectantly turned their eyes toward the strange traveler in Moorish garb, he began the following
tale.

CHAPTERS XXXIX-XLI

WHEREIN THE CAPTIVE RELATES HIS LIFE AND ADVENTURES

As a young man, the stranger said, he had left Spain, bent on adventure and on becoming a soldier.
He had served with the Duke of Alva in Flanders, and in the wars of the Christians against
the Turks, the Moors, and the Arabs. In one of these wars he was taken prisoner by King El
Uchali of Algiers; he had previously advanced to the rank of captain. He was held a captive
for a long time, first at Constantinople, then at Tunis, then at Algiers. At Constantinople
he encountered a good many other Christian prisoners. Particularly he remembered one Don Pedro
de Augilar, a brave soldier and a native of Andalusia, who, he said, had written some very
excellent poetry. He especially spoke of two sonnets which he had liked so well that he had
learned them by heart. One day Don Pedro succeeded in making his escape, but what had become
of him he had never heard.

As soon as the captive had spoken Don Pedro's name, the ladies and Don Fernando exchanged glances
and smiled, and Don Fernando could not refrain from informing the narrator that Don Pedro was
his brother. Furthermore, he said, he was safe in Andalusia, where he was happily married,
in the best of health, and had three robust children. Then he touched on his brother's gift
for composing poetry, and said that the very two sonnets the captive had mentioned, he himself
knew by heart. Whereupon every one asked him to recite them, and so he did with fine feeling
and intelligence. Then the captive resumed his story.

At Algiers, he said, there lived, overlooking the prison, a great alcaide named Hadji Morato,
a very rich man, who had but one child, a daughter of great beauty. She had learned the Christian
prayer from a slave of her father's, when she was a child; the things that this Christian woman
had taught her had made her long to know more about the religion and to become a Christian
herself. This beautiful Algerian maiden had seen the captive from her window, and she liked
him, and one day she managed to get a message to him, begging him to escape and to take her
with him. From time to time she would throw to him gold coins wrapped in cloth, and these he
would hide until finally he had enough to buy not only himself but some other prisoners free
from their slavery.

However, in order to effect the escape of the maiden, the captive was obliged to take into
his confidence an old Algerian renegade who turned out to be a believer in Christ. With this
man the captive sent messages to Zoraida. Now, this renegade was a sly fellow, and he bought
a small vessel with which he began to ply to and fro between the city and some islands nearby,
bringing back fruit each time, in order to alleviate all suspicions of his having acquired
the vessel for any other purpose than trading. Finally it was decided the time had come for
the escape, and the captive had himself ransomed.

That night the renegade had the ship anchored opposite the prison and Zoraida's garden, and,
with the help of a number of Christians whom they had gathered as rowers, and who were eager
to return to Spain, they secured the ship and put the Moorish crew in irons and chains.

Zoraida witnessed the proceedings from her window, and when she saw her captive and the renegade
return in the skiff of the vessel, she hastened below into the garden. She was bedecked with
a fortune in pearls and precious stones. She asked the renegade to follow her into the house,
and when they returned, they brought with them a chest laden with gold. Just then her father
was awakened and he began to shout in Arabic as loudly as he could that he was being robbed
by Christians. Had it not been for the quick action of the renegade all might have been lost.
He bound and gagged the father and carried him downstairs, where Zoraida had fainted in the
captive's arms. Then they hastened back to the ship and set sail for Majorca.

It was some time before the old alcaide realized that his daughter had gone with the captive
of her own free will, and when he learned it, he flung himself into the sea, but was rescued
by one of the rowers. When he found himself then on board the ship, he began to curse his daughter,
calling her a Christian dog and other vile names. Finally it was deemed best to set him and
the other Moors ashore; and when the old man saw the ship sail away with his daughter, he began
to sob and cry aloud in the most heartrending way, threatening to kill himself if she did not
return to him. The last words that she heard were, "I forgive you all!" and they made her weep
so bitterly that it seemed as if her tears would never cease flowing.

They were then less than a day's voyage from the coast of Spain. As they were breezing along
with all sails set, over a moonlit sea, they saw a large ship appear in the distance. It turned
out to be a French corsair from Rochelle out for plunder, for when it came closer it suddenly
fired two guns that took terrible effect and wrecked their vessel. As the ship began to sink,
they begged to be taken aboard the corsair, to which the captain was not averse. Once aboard
they were told that if they had been courteous enough to reply to the question shouted from
the corsair as to what port they were bound for, their own vessel would still have been intact.
The covetous crew stripped them of all their valuable belongings, the pearls and jewels, money
and adornments of Zoraida. The chest of gold, however, the renegade stealthily lowered into
the sea without any one seeing it.

The next day when the Spanish coast was sighted the captain put them all in a skiff, gave them
some bread and water for their voyage, and set out to sea. Before letting them depart, moved
by some strange impulse, he gave Zoraida forty crowns; and he had not robbed her of her beautiful
gown. They steered their skiff towards the shore, where they landed soon after midnight. Immediately
they left the shore, eager to know where they were. They climbed the mountain--for the shore
was a rocky one--and there they rested until dawn, then went on into the country.

Soon they met a young shepherd; but when he saw their strange garbs, he ran away from them
like a frightened lamb, crying that the Moors had invaded the country. And not so long after
that they encountered fifty mounted men of the coast guard, but as soon as these saw their
Moorish costumes and had heard the captive's explanation, they realized that the boy's vivid
imagination had disturbed them needlessly. And when one of the Christian captives recognized
in one of the guards an uncle of his, these men could not do enough for the returned slaves.
They gave them their horses, some of them went to rescue the skiff for them, and when they
arrived at the nearby city they were welcomed by all the inhabitants.

At once they went to the church to return thanks to the Lord for their marvelous escape, and
Zoraida was impressed beyond expression with the hosts of praying worshippers. She, the renegade,
and the captive stayed at the house of the returned Christian, and the rest were quartered
throughout the town. After six days the renegade departed for Granada to restore himself to
the Church through the means of the Holy Inquisition. One by one the other captives left for
their own homes, and finally only Zoraida and he himself remained. He then decided to go in
search of his father, whom he had not seen for so many years, and he did not know whether he
was alive or not. His journey had brought him to this inn, and it was here that his story came
to an end. Don Fernando begged the stranger to allow him to provide for his comfort, and offered
to take him to his brother, the Marquis, who, he said, would be most eager to act as Zoraida's
godfather at her baptism. But the stranger declined graciously all the offers that were made.

Night was now setting in, and each one was contemplating going to his room, when suddenly a
coach with attendants on horseback arrived at the inn. The landlady told the one demanding
lodging that there was none to be had at any price. Whereupon the man replied that room must
be found for his lordship, the Judge, his master. As soon as the landlady learned she was dealing
with the law, she nearly fainted from exertion to please, and offered to give up their own
room and bed to his lordship. By this time the Judge, attired in a long robe with ruffled sleeves,
had stepped out of the coach, accompanied by a beautiful girl of about sixteen years of age.
There were exclamations from all when they saw the young lady, for she possessed beauty and
grace that were really rare.

The first one to greet the strangers was no other than Don Quixote, who, with a grave air and
the most exalted and flowery language, bade them welcome to the castle. He scrutinized Don
Quixote's curious armor, then turned his attention to the rest of the company, which evidently
made him feel more at ease.

It was arranged that the young lady should sleep with the other ladies; which pleased her greatly,
for it was evident that she was very much taken with them and their beauty. The Judge was as
much pleased with the presence of so many people of quality as he was puzzled by Don Quixote
and his strange appearance and behavior.

The moment the former captive and captain had laid eyes on the Judge, he was stirred by the
conviction that here was his own younger brother. He asked the Judge's name of one of the servants,
and was told he was called the Licentiate Juan Perez de Viedma, lately appointed Judge of the
Supreme Court of Mexico, to which country he was now on his way. The Captain inquired whether
the servant knew from which part of Spain the Judge came, and got the reply that he had heard
it rumored he was a native of a little village in the mountains of Leon. The Captain was then
certain it was his brother, and he hastened to tell the curate, Don Fernando, and Cardenio,
saying he felt diffident about making himself known too abruptly for fear his brother might
refuse to acknowledge him because of his poverty and ill-fortune.

The curate understood the Captain's way of thinking, and asked that he trust him to manage
it in a discreet way. So when the Judge invited them all to keep him company while he supped,
the curate told the story of the captive at the table. In telling it he pretended to have been
a captive in the hands of the Turks and the Algerians and a comrade-in-arms of the Captain.
When he had finished the story, tears rolled down the Judge's cheeks, and he begged the curate
to help him to find his beloved brother, for whom their aged father was ever praying, ever
asking, hoping that he might see him once more before he closed his eyes in death. It was then
that the Captain, himself in tears, stepped forward and, the Judge having recognized him, embraced
his brother. Then the Judge embraced Zoraida, offering her all the worldly goods he possessed.
His daughter, the lovely young girl, now joined them, and all the others were moved to tears
by the brothers' happiness in finding each other after so many years of separation.

Don Quixote stood gazing in silence at what passed before his eyes, ascribing the two brothers'
luck to magic.

When the first emotion of the unexpected meeting had subsided, the Judge asked his brother
and Zoraida to return with him to Seville, from where he would send a messenger to the father,
telling him of the good news and begging him to come to the joint marriage and baptismal ceremony.
As the Judge was obliged to leave for New Spain within a month, it was agreed that a speedy
return to Seville was necessary.

It was now early morning, though still dark, and all were tired, so it was decided that every
one should go to bed. But Don Quixote, sacrificing himself in spite of his fatigue, appointed
himself to keep guard for the remainder of the night, fearing attack of some evil giant or
beast upon all the beauty that was slumbering within. They, who were aware of his peculiar
weakness, returned thanks in their most gracious manner; and when they were alone with the
Judge they hastened to explain the knight's mental state. The Judge was much amused by the
accounts of his adventures and his attempts to revive knight errantry in Spain.

There was only one unhappy being in the inn that night: that was Sancho Panza. He was not at
all pleased with his master's staying up at such a late hour. But there seemed nothing he could
do about it, so he retired and spread himself comfortably on the trappings of his donkey.

While Don Quixote was guarding the castle, and dawn was approaching, Dorothea, who had lain
awake, was suddenly stirred by the sound of a man's voice, a voice so beautiful that it seemed
to her there could be none sweeter in the world. Then Cardenio was awakened by it, and he felt
that he ought to share the joy of hearing it with the ladies, so he went to the garret to call
their attention to it. When he knocked on the door and told them, Dorothea called out that
they were already listening. The only one not awake at that time was Doña Clara, the Judge's
fair daughter. Finally they decided that she would be sorry if she had to learn what she had
missed and would regret that they had not awakened her; so they shook her until she opened
her eyes and then asked her to sit up in bed and listen. But scarcely had she heard one note,
before she began to sob hysterically. She threw her arms around Dorothea and cried: "Why, oh,
why did you wake me, dear lady?

Dorothea was at a loss to know what had happened to the child. All the while she was trying
to soothe her, the tears were streaming down the young girl's face, and she was trembling like
a leaf. Finally she quieted her feelings sufficiently to be able to confide to Dorothea in
a whispering voice the story of her romance with the singer, who, she said, was not a muleteer
as his garb would indicate, but the only son and heir of a rich noble of Aragon. This gentleman's
house in Madrid was situated directly opposite her father's, and having once seen Doña Clara
the youth proceeded to declare his love for her. She, being motherless and having no one to
whom she could confide her love secrets, had to leave Madrid with her father, when he was given
his appointment to New Spain, without an opportunity to see her lover. But as soon as the youth,
who was not much older than herself, learned of their departure, he dressed himself up as a
muleteer and set out on foot to pursue her. At every inn where they had stopped overnight she
had found him awaiting their departure in the morning, and she was always in dread, she said,
lest her father learn of their love for each other.

With her arms tight around Dorothea, she confessed to her how great her love was for the youth,
saying that she could never live without him. Dorothea kissed the girl, and promised her that
with God's help all would end well, telling her to put her trust in Him; and before another
day had passed she hoped to have good news for Doña Clara. Dorothea's assurances calmed and
put new faith in the young girl's heart; and soon they all were fast asleep again.

Now, all this time the one-eyed Asturian maid, and the landlady's daughter, both bent on deviltry,
were keeping their eyes open. It was impossible for them to forget Don Quixote, and they were
determined to play a joke on him before the night was over. They posted themselves in the hayloft,
where there was a hole in the wall; and when Don Quixote passed on Rocinante, he heard some
one calling: "Pst! Come here, señor!"

As Don Quixote turned to see who it might be, he discovered the hole in the wall and it seemed
very much like a marvelously decorated window, in keeping with the beautiful castle he had
made out of the inn. He beheld at this window the two maidens, and immediately they became
to him the daughter of the lord of the castle and her attendant. Wistfully he gazed at them,
certain, however, that they had designed to destroy his faithful and stubborn allegiance to
Dulcinea, to whom he had just been sending up prayers and salutations under the influence of
the moon. Then he spoke to them, regretting that they should let themselves be so overcome
by love for him that they could no longer master their feelings. He told them of that great
and only mistress of his soul, the incomparable one of El Toboso of La Mancha, to whom he had
sworn eternal love and undying admiration. And at last he admonished the innkeeper's daughter
to retire to her beauteous apartment, lest he should be forced to prove himself ungrateful.
If, he said, she would demand any other thing than love, he would willingly grant her the favor,
even unto a lock of Medusa's hair.

The wench immediately realized that her opportunity had come, so she quickly said that she
cared for no lock of Medusa's or any other, but would be satisfied to feel the touch of his hand.

Before sanctioning this demand, Don Quixote asserted his virtuousness again by stipulating
that she must not kiss it, only touch it. He understood, of course, that any woman would be
likely to ask such a favor of him at any time (for who would not be proud to have touched the
sinewy hand of so remarkable and famous a knight errant as himself?) but he insisted on being
discreet at all times. So he climbed up and stood on the saddle of his hack, reaching his lean
arm through the hole in the wall.

By this time the Asturian maid had procured from the stable the halter of Sancho's donkey,
on which her young mistress quickly made a running knot and passed it over Don Quixote's wrist.
As soon as she had proceeded thus far in her deviltry, she jumped down from the hole and made
fast the other end of the halter to the bolt of the door. Then she and her maid swiftly made
off, bursting with laughter, leaving the knight to complain of the roughness of her touch.

But after a while Don Quixote began to realize that no one was there to listen to his complaints,
and also that he was not standing too securely on his Rocinante's back; for should Rocinante
move without being urged--a most unusual event--he would be left to hang in the air by one
arm. It suddenly came to him that he was a victim of enchantment, and he called on all the
saints, and Dulcinea, and Sancho Panza, on all kind magicians and sages, and every one else
he could think of, to come to his aid.

But no one came, until the morning brought four travelers on horseback. They found the gate
still shut, so they called to Don Quixote, who by this time was almost exhausted. But although
wearied, his spirit had not left him. He reprimanded the strangers for their insolence; asked
whether they were so stupid they failed to realize that as yet the castle gates were not open,
that all were asleep. He commanded them to withdraw to a distance and to approach the fortress
after daylight; then he could better tell whether they should be permitted to enter or not.

One of the travelers mistook Don Quixote for the innkeeper, and was immediately reprimanded
for this. The offended knight then began to talk about knight errantry and its revival in the
world, until finally the men tired of his discourse. Again they knocked at the gate, this time
with such force and fury that the innkeeper woke up and came out and admitted them in a hurry.
They entered violently on their horses, enraged because of their long waiting at the gate,
and dismounted, leaving their horses free. The moment the horses saw Rocinante and the curious
position of his master, they went to investigate him, and the unsuspecting Rocinante leaped
from under Don Quixote with such suddenness that the poor knight's arm was nearly wrenched
from his body. There he was left to dangle, while the shouts that forced their way from his
throat rent the air fiercely.

CHAPTER XLIV

IN WHICH ARE CONTINUED THE UNHEARD-OF ADVENTURES AT THE INN

When the landlord heard the terrible outcries of Don Quixote, he ran, greatly excited, to see
who could be giving vent to such agony. The travelers joined him; and the Asturian maid was
stirred to quick action by a bad conscience, as well as by the excited state of her master.
She untied the halter, and Don Quixote fell so suddenly that his meager body landed like a
dead weight on the ground.

The landlord and the travelers found him there, and asked him impatiently why he was making
such a tremendous noise. He ignored their question entirely, pulled the rope off his wrist,
and mounted his charger with as much nonchalance and elegance as his stiff limbs would permit.
Then he haughtily raised his head, after having adjusted all his knightly paraphernalia, and
circled down the field, returning in a canter.

The landlord saw at once the effect these words of the poor demented knight had on his newly
arrived guests, so he hastened to explain Don Quixote's condition to them. They then asked
whether the innkeeper had seen a youth dressed like a muleteer. He replied that he had not;
but just then one of the men exclaimed that the youth must be there, since the Judge's coach--which
he had suddenly observed--was there. They then decided to dissemble, each one going to a different
entrance of the inn, so there would be no chance for the youth to escape.

The landlord was curious to know what it was all about, but could arrive at no conclusion.
The truth was that these men were servants of the young muleteer's father. And it was not long
ere they had discovered him, lying asleep, never thinking that he would himself be pursued.
The servant who roused him made a few caustic remarks to the young Don Luis--for this was his
name--about his bed and the luxury of his surroundings, as particularly befitting a youth of
his rank and breeding.

Don Luis could not at first believe that he was really awake. He rubbed his eyes in astonishment,
and failed to find a reply to the servant's remarks. The man then continued, advising his young
master to return to his home at once, saying that his father, as a result of his disappearance,
was dangerously ill. The youth was curious to learn how his father had found out what road
he had taken and that he had disguised himself as a muleteer. The servant answered that a student
to whom Don Luis had confided his love for Doña Clara, had told his master everything, when
he saw how he suffered.

Now, it chanced that another muleteer, who had been sleeping with Don Luis, could not keep
what he was hearing to himself; besides, he deemed it best to disappear from the scene. He
informed some of the guests of what had occurred, and thus it happened that Don Fernando and
Cardenio learned of the plight of the young singer, whose voice they had so admired a short
time before; and when the muleteer told them that his comrade was a young nobleman in disguise,
they decided to go and help him in his quandary.

They found the four men entreating Don Luis to return to his father; and the youth emphatically
refusing to do so, saying that they might take him dead, but never alive.

At this moment Dorothea saw Cardenio from her window, and she called him and told him the story
of the lad and Doña Clara. He in turn related to her how the servants of the youth's father
had come to take him back to his home. In telling Dorothea this news Cardenio was overheard
by Doña Clara who would have swooned had not Dorothea supported her.

By this time the servants had brought Don Luis into the inn, threatening to take him back by
force should he not go willingly. Again he protested, and at last the argument attracted all
the guests, including Don Quixote, who had ceased his duties as guard for the present. The
Judge was there too, and when one of the servants recognized in him their neighbor in Madrid,
he pleaded with him to do all he could to make the young man return to his ill father.

The Judge turned to the young muleteer, and saw that it was his neighbor's son; whereupon he
embraced him and asked in a fatherly way what had brought him there dressed in such a manner.
With his arm around the youth's neck, the Judge withdrew with the lad to discuss the reasons
for his disguise and for his leaving his father.

While the kindly Judge was thus occupied with Don Luis, a tumult suddenly arose at the gate
of the inn. It was the landlord, trying to hold back two guests who had attempted to get away
without paying. The innkeeper was stubbornly clinging to the garb of one of the adventurers,
and in return was being pummeled mercilessly, until his face was a study in dark and fast colors,
except his nose, which was tinted a running red. As soon as the landlady perceived her mate's
distress, the thought struck her that this would be a most worthy opportunity for our valiant
knight errant to show his skill as a swordsman and a wielder of the lance. So she dispatched
her daughter, the fair young lady of the castle, to bring the knight her message of distress.

Don Quixote received the young lady calmly and courteously, but said that he was in honor bound
to engage in no combat except by the express permission of her Royal Highness the Princess
Micomicona; she having granted it, there could be no doubt as to the outcome of any battle
in which he chose to draw his sword. Seeing this, in her opinion, ill-timed hesitancy, the
one-eyed Asturian muttered that by the time the Princess was found, her master would have passed
the heavenly border. The Princess, however, was quickly summoned, and Don Quixote knelt on
his stiff knees before her; but ere he had finished his long harangue of request, she--having
been advised of the urgency of the situation--had already given him permission and wished him
godspeed.

Don Quixote arose and drew his sword, paced toward the gate, and then suddenly stopped short.
All wondered what had happened to cause his hesitating thus, and the Asturian maid expressed
her wonder aloud. Don Quixote was not long about the answer. He replied at once that this was
no business for him; they had best call his squire. It was for Sancho, he said, that he reserved
the task and joy of fighting such lowly people as the ones he saw before him here and now.

Now, while all of this was taking place, Don Luis, with tears in his eyes, was confessing to
Doña Clara's father his great and indomitable love for her. This placed the Judge in a curious
predicament, for he found himself forced to sit in judgment on the welfare of his own child.
He was so taken with the charm and intelligence of the youth that he was anxious to have him
for a son-in-law, particularly as his family was one of distinction, and extremely rich. Yet
his better judgment told him that it would be wise to wait another day before giving his consent.
He would have preferred to have Don Luis' father approve of the marriage, although he thought
it almost certain that this gentleman would like to see his son married to a titled lady.

And while the fate of the young lovers was being weighed by the Judge, peace had been declared
between the innkeeper and the two travelers who, persuaded by the chivalrous words of Don Quixote,
and the summoning of Sancho, had been made to see the light and pay the bill. By this time
everything was settled amicably, the landlord having demanded no special indemnity for his
battered, many-colored face.

But who should loom up on the scene, now that everything was peaceful again, but the owner
of Mambrino's golden helmet! This particular barber was now leading his donkey to the stable,
when he suddenly discovered Sancho Panza hard at work repairing the barber's own trappings,
which our Sancho had taken as booty at the time his master fell heir to the helmet. The barber
left his donkey at no slow speed and ran towards Sancho, to whom he exclaimed threateningly
"There, you thief, I have caught you! Give me my basin and my pack-saddle, and everything you
robbed me of!"

But Sancho was not willing to give up so easily things that he had gained as spoils in righteous
warfare. He refuted with his fists, as well as by argument, the barber's coarse suggestion
that he was a common highwayman; and his master, coming up at this instant, was proud and pleased
to hear his faithful squire talk like that, and also to see the barber's teeth gone, which
the force of Sancho's blow evidently had carried away. As a matter of fact, Sancho's demonstration
of physical strength made such a profound impression on Don Quixote, that he decided his squire
was not far from being eligible to knighthood.

As soon as the barber was able to make himself heard again, he began to arraign both master
and squire. He was not to be subdued. He told all that quickly gathered round them that they
could assure themselves of the truth of what he said by fitting Sancho's saddle to his own
steed; furthermore, he said, they had plundered him of a basin.

When Don Quixote heard this ridiculous accusation, his lips twisted into a scornful smile.
He dispatched Sancho to fetch the helmet--which seemed to Sancho a dangerous move--and when
Sancho returned with the basin, Don Quixote held it up with great self-assurance before everybody.

This statement was corroborated in detail by Sancho, who added: "Since that battle my master
has fought in the helmet only once. That was when he let loose the unfortunate ones in chains.
And if it had not been for this basin-helmet he might have been killed in that engagement,
for there were plenty of stones raining down on him at that time." He solemnly asked the other
barber whether he was out of his head, for of course anybody could see that it was a helmet,
although, he admitted, not a complete one.

The poor barber was so taken aback, so perplexed that a learned barber, and a seemingly sane
one otherwise, could not tell the difference between a basin and a helmet that he nearly toppled
over. But when the worthy curate, Cardenio, Don Fernando, and all--for they realized at once
the barber's joke--insisted that he was wrong, and that it was not a basin, the perspiration
began to trickle down his face, and he exclaimed: "God bless me!

Some one present was quick to assert that it most certainly was a caparison and not a pack-saddle
at all; that no one but a fool could take it for a pack-saddle. And when a gentleman of quality
like Don Fernando offered to take the votes of those present and they turned out to be in favor
of the pack-saddle's remaining a caparison, the barber thought he had gone completely mad.

By this time the group of spectators had been increased by the arrival of the four servants
of Don Luis, Don Luis himself, and three new guests--officers of the Holy Brotherhood, to whom
the proceedings and the amusement of those present seemed utter foolishness. One of these uninitiated
newcomers, one of the officers of the Brotherhood, dared to say that any one who maintained
that it was a helmet instead of a basin must be drunk. But he should not have said it, for
our knight lifted his lance and let it fly out of his hand with such ferocity and such sure
aim that if the officer had not been lucky enough to be able to dodge it, it would have pierced
his body.

The tumult that followed was indescribable. The landlord came to the rescue of his Brotherhood
comrades. His wife fell into hysterics for fear he would be beheaded by Don Quixote's vicious
sword. The women were all screaming, wailing, weeping and fainting. Then this tremendous din
and noise was suddenly rent by the voice of Don Quixote; and like a flash there was peace,
when the knight errant began to appeal in soft lucid tones for a cessation of hostilities.
It was a curious thing to observe how willingly the demented man's appeal to reason was listened
to by all. The confusion had struck most of them with terror and they were glad to heed in
such a moment even the will of unreason.

But as soon as there was quiet again, the grudge against Don Quixote that had established itself
in the heart of one of the Brotherhood, began to assert itself. It suddenly came to his mind
that among his warrants he had one for a man of Don Quixote's description who was accused of
having set free a chain of galley-slaves. As soon as he had convinced himself that there could
be no mistake about the identity, he strode forth and seized Don Quixote so abruptly by the
collar that the knight nearly choked.

"Help for the Holy Brotherhood!" the officer yelled aloud. "And that you may see that I demand
it in earnest, read this warrant which says this highwayman is to be arrested!"

Hardly did Don Quixote feel himself handled in so undignified a manner, when he clutched the
villain's throat, foaming at the mouth like a wild beast. Luckily they were separated in time
by Don Fernando and the rest, or they would have torn each other to pieces. Yet the officer
was not willing to give up his claim on Don Quixote's person: a claim that our knight errant
laughed at, for who had ever heard of members of the knighthood being dependent on jurisdiction?
Did he, this base knave, this ill-born scoundrel, not know that the law of knights was in their
swords, their charter in their prowess, and their edicts in their will? Furthermore, he warned
them, Don Quixote would never submit to force.

Sancho Panza and the barber were still quarreling over the pack-saddle and the other booty,
and at last the officers agreed to act as mediators, and the differences were adjusted by arbitration.
The curate settled for the basin by paying eight reals, and received a receipt for payment
in full from the barber.

Don Fernando, in the meantime, extracted a promise from three of the servants of Don Luis to
return to Madrid, while the other one agreed to remain and accompany his young master to where
Don Fernando wanted him to go. Doña Clara was sparkling with happiness; and Zoraida seemed
to feel at home with the Christians, in spite of the noise and tumult she had had to live through
during her short stay at the inn.

The landlord did not forget the reckoning for the wine-skins and all the other things whose
loss he could attribute to Don Quixote, for he had witnessed the curate's paying off the debt
for the barber's helmet. Don Fernando paid all the innkeeper's demands generously, after the
curate had decided the claims were just.

But when Don Quixote felt no discord in the air, he betook himself to the presence of Dorothea,
knelt before her, and told her how willing and anxious he was to serve her and conquer her
giant. And he requested that they make ready to leave. Her reply was simple and direct, for
she told him that his will was hers. So Don Quixote ordered his squire to saddle Rocinante
and his own donkey; but Sancho only shook his head in sorry fashion.

"Master," he said, "there is more mischief in the village than one hears of."

Though it was merely with her husband, Don Fernando, that she had, as Sancho said, rubbed noses,
the crimson in her royal blood came to the surface, and her face turned as red as a beet. Sancho,
fearing that the Princess was a courtesan, wanted to save his master the two years' journey
to Micomicon, if at the end of it it should turn out that another one than Don Quixote or himself
should reap the fruits of their labor.

It is impossible to describe the terrible wrath of the knight when he heard the Princess thus
slandered. His indignation and fury knew no bounds. He began to stammer and stutter, inarticulate
with rage, until Sancho was scared out of his wits, afraid of being cut open by his raving
master's sword. He was just about to turn his back on his master and disappear till the storm
had passed, when Dorothea came to his rescue. She suggested that Sancho's strange behavior
could only be ascribed to one thing: enchantment. How else could he have seen such diabolical
things as he described, how could he have been made to bear false witness against her, and
how could he have spoken words so offensive to her modesty? Knowing the heart of Sancho, Don
Quixote at once thought her explanation a most ingenious one, for what else could have put
into Sancho's head such disrespect for a royal personage? Don Fernando, too, pleaded in Sancho's
behalf; and Sancho meekly stumbled to his knees before his master, and kissed his hand frantically,
begging him for forgiveness. Whereupon our knight errant with many gestures pardoned and blessed
him.

Those who were there were eager to know what had happened to Sancho, and the landlord was most
obliging in giving a graphic description of all that had occurred. They all seemed to enjoy
the account enormously, for they laughed hilariously. Had Don Quixote not again assured Sancho
that it most certainly had happened by enchantment, there is no doubt that he would have interrupted
their hilarity.

It was now two days since they had arrived at the inn, and Don Fernando and Dorothea were becoming
anxious to depart. In order that they might not have to go out of their way, it was arranged
that they should go by themselves; meanwhile a scheme was devised whereby the curate and the
barber could restore Don Quixote to his native village.

An ox-cart passed that day, and the curate, hearing it was going in the direction of El Toboso,
made arrangements with the owner to make the journey with him. Then he ordered some of the
servants to make a cage, large enough to hold Don Quixote, and provided it with bars. He then
asked Don Fernando and his companions, the officers of the Holy Brotherhood, the servants of
Don Luis, and the innkeeper to cover their faces and change their appearance so that Don Quixote
would think they were quite different people.

When this had been done they tiptoed to the valiant knight errant's room, where they found
him fast asleep, bound him, without waking him, hand and foot; then they stood about the room
silently. When the knight awoke, he was startled to find that he could not move, and seeing
all these strangely conjured-up figures before him, it struck him they must be phantoms of
the enchanted castle. He was absolutely helpless, and the men had no difficulty in stuffing
him into the cage. The bars were nailed on securely, and the cage was then carried out of the
inn and placed in the ox-cart.

While the procession slowly proceeded from the inn to the ox-cart, the men supporting the cage
on their shoulders, the barber chanted strange words in a weird and hollow voice. The barber
took it upon himself to become the prophet of the occasion, and he proclaimed to the Knight
of the Rueful Countenance that he ought not to consider his present imprisonment an affliction.
It was in a way a sort of penance, he said, through which he would be humbled to be in readiness
for a still greater, sweeter imprisonment, the bond of matrimony. This prediction would come
true, he avowed, when the fierce Manchegan lion and the tender Tobosan dove met again. They
would be joined in one, and the offspring of this union would be of such stuff as to set the
world aflame.

When Don Quixote heard these words, he was stirred into an exalted emotion. Had he not been
well bound it would have been expressed by kneeling. He raised his eyes toward Heaven and thanked
the Lord for having sent this prophet to him in this needy moment. He prayed that he should
not be left to perish in the cage, and also implored of the prophet not to let his faithful
Sancho Panza abandon him, saying that if by chance the promise of the island should not come
true, he had made provision for him in his will. Sancho was much moved by what his encaged
and enchanted master had said, and he bent down and kissed his hands--he had to kiss both since
they were tied together. By that time the procession had arrived at the ox-cart, and all was
ready for the departure. The cart had rolled only a few paces and then stopped; there was nothing
exciting or heroic in being carried off in such a way! Never had he read anywhere of so ridiculously
slow and tame a proceeding. And on an ox-cart! However, times had changed, and he realized
that until he had established the new era of knight-errantry, the most plebeian ways of being
captured by enchantment would have to serve. Yet, he did not consider it beneath his dignity
to ask Sancho what he thought on the subject.

Don Quixote could not refrain from laughing aloud at his squire's simplicity. How could they
be Catholics when they were devils, made of no substance whatever, nothing but air?

"By the Lord, Master," interrupted Sancho excitedly, "I have touched them already, and one
of the devils, I swear, has firm flesh. Furthermore, I have always heard it said that all devils
smelled of sulphur and brimstone, but this one smells of amber half a league off."

Here Sancho was referring to Don Fernando, who, like most nobles, used a perfume; but Don Quixote
explained to his squire that this particular devil was so besprinkled in order to give people
the impression he was not a devil.

While Don Quixote and his squire were thus exchanging thoughts on the subject of devils and
their religion and what stuff they were made of, the curate and the barber were saying farewell
to Don Fernando, his bride, Dorothea, Cardenio, Luscinda, the Judge and Doña Clara, as well
as to the Captain and the Captain's bride, Zoraida. All of them promised to write to the curate,
so that he in return might let them know how his and Don Quixote's journey had ended.

After many embraces, the curate and the barber were ready to make their departure when the
landlord came running out with some papers which he handed to the curate as a gift. The landlord
said it was the manuscript of the novel, "Rinconete and Cortadillo," a part of the contents
of the valise in which he had found the story of "Ill-Advised Curiosity," which the curate
had read aloud at the inn.

The curate thanked the innkeeper, saying that he hoped it was as good as the other novel. Then
he and the barber covered their faces that they might not be recognized by Don Quixote, and
took their places behind the cart, mounted on their mules. The three officers of the Brotherhood
had been brought by the curate to escort them to El Toboso, armed with muskets. And then Sancho
Panza, mounted on his donkey, led Rocinante by the reins. As the procession started, the landlady
came out to weep make-believe tears for Don Quixote, who begged her to shed none, for in the
end, he said, virtue would triumph.

At the head of the procession came the ox-cart, the officers of the Brotherhood marching beside
it, then followed Sancho Panza on his ass, leading Rocinante by the bridle, and in the rear
trailed the curate and the barber on their mules. The slow pace of the oxen had to be imitated
by the rest, so the whole procession took on a solemn and mysterious aspect, which was enhanced
by the encaged Don Quixote's stiff and stone-like form leaning against the wooden bars.

They had traveled several leagues, when the curate heard the sound of riders approaching from
behind. Turning in his saddle he perceived six or seven men, mounted on mules, and riding at
a quick pace. They had soon overtaken the procession, and exchanged greetings with the curate
and the barber. One of the travelers was a canon of Toledo, and on observing the fettered Don
Quixote, with the armed officers of the Brotherhood as an escort, he took it for granted that
the knight was some dangerous highwayman. Yet, scrutinizing the strange parade, he could not
help asking questions. So when he inquired of one of the officers why Don Quixote was being
transported in that way, the officer did not know what to say but referred him for an explanation
to Don Quixote himself.

The knight errant had heard the canon's question, and he offered to give him the information
if he knew anything about errantry. As the canon said he had read a good deal about knights
errant and their deeds, Don Quixote was quick to tell of his misfortune--how he had been encaged
and made helpless by enchantment. At this moment the curate, seeing that the canon was talking
to Don Quixote, and fearing a mishap in the carrying out of their plan, came up and joined
in the conversation. He corroborated what the knight errant had just said, and added that it
was not for his sins that he was enchanted, but because of his enemies' hatred of virtuous
deeds, of which this famous Knight of the Rueful Countenance was the strongest champion in
their age.

When the good canon heard the two of them talk like that, he was at a loss for words and felt
he had to cross himself, in which action his attendants joined him. But as luck would have
it, Sancho Panza had been listening, and seeing the curate disguised by a mask, the suspicion
crept into his head that he was trying to play a joke on his master. So he burst into the conversation
with a grudge against them all.

"Well, sirs, you may like it or not," he declared, "but my master is as much enchanted as my
mother! He is in his full senses; he can eat, and sleep, and drink. Then why do they want me
to believe that he is enchanted? I have heard it said that when you are enchanted you cannot
do any of these things, nor talk. And my master will talk more than thirty lawyers would if
you do not stop him." Then turning to the curate, he exclaimed: "And, señor curate, señor curate!
Do you think I do not know you? Well, I can tell you I do, for all your face is covered; and
I can tell you I am up to you, however you may hide your tricks.

And then the faithful Sancho went on to say that he had told all this that the curate might
weigh in his conscience the pranks he had played on Don Quixote, and for which he would have
to pay in heaven (if he ever should come there) unless he did penance now. Here the barber
thought it best to put an end to Sancho's communications, and offered him a place in the cage
beside his master, but Sancho was quick to retort: "Mind how you talk, master barber, for shaving
is not everything; and as to the enchantment of my master, God knows the truth!"

Soon after Sancho had commenced his tirade, the curate thought it best, having listened to
his own denunciation, to explain everything concerning the knight errant and his squire to
the canon. Therefore he asked him to ride on ahead with him. When the canon had heard the whole
story, he remarked that he thought that books of chivalry were really harmful, for not one
of them was truthful. He was amused when the curate related how he and the barber had burned
nearly all of Don Quixote's treasures in literature of this sort. It was his view that fiction
was all the better the more it resembled the truth. Furthermore, he believed in adhering to
good taste and to the rules of art; these things, it seemed to him, had been ignored in the
writing of these books. From fiction the conversation drifted to playwriting, and here again
the curate and the canon were of the same mind. The actors of their age chose plays that appealed
to people of nonsense and with bad taste. Instead of trying to improve the national taste,
they produced tawdry plays. The canon cited three excellent plays, however, that he had seen
at Madrid, which had earned great profits for their producers; this proved to the canon that
the great mass of the public did appreciate a really good play if it was only produced.

While the two clergymen were thus whiling away the time, the barber approached and told the
curate they had reached a place which to him seemed a good pasture for the oxen. It was now
noon, and the canon decided to join them in their rest. He offered them food out of the provisions
that he had brought along on a pack-mule. The rest of the canon's mules were sent to an inn,
which was seen nearby, to be fed there.

Seeing his master unguarded, Sancho decided the time had come when he could speak undisturbedly
to him, so he hastened to tell him of the plot that the curate and the barber had hit upon.
He told his master he was certain it was out of envy and malice, for his having surpassed them
in fame and brave deeds. Don Quixote, however, calmly told his squire that if he saw two shapes
that resembled the barber and the curate there, they could be nothing but devils having taken
on the appearance of his friends in order to be able to do their black deeds so much the more
safely and cruelly.

CHAPTER XLIX

WHICH TREATS OF HOW OUR KNIGHT IS PERMITTED TO DESCEND FROM HIS CAGE, AND OF THE CANON'S ATTEMPT
TO CONVERT HIM FROM HIS ILLUSIONS

During his conversation with Sancho, Don Quixote suddenly felt it an absolute necessity to
leave the cage, and to stretch himself in the open. So Sancho went to the curate to ask his
permission, which he received upon promising to answer for his master's not disappearing. The
curate and the canon went to the cage, and Don Quixote swore as a knight that he would not
run away, whereupon they untied his hands and feet.

The first thing Don Quixote did was to go to his Rocinante; and then the canon thought he would
try to talk sense into him, to see whether he could not persuade him to give up his crazy notions
and ideas. Don Quixote listened courteously and attentively, but when the canon had finished,
he turned to him and said he rather thought it was the canon and not he who was afflicted and
out of his wits, since he had the audacity to blaspheme the order of knighthood. And then he
went on, describing the deeds of all the famous knights he had read of; and the canon was really
amazed at the great ease and clearness of mind with which he related these tales of adventure.
He thought it a pity that so much knowledge of a wrong kind should be heaped into one brain.

CHAPTERS L-LI

OF THE SHREWD CONTROVERSY WHICH DON QUIXOTE AND THE CANON HELD, TOGETHER WITH OTHER INCIDENTS

What the canon had tried on the knight, Don Quixote now decided to try on him. Was that not
the great mission he had undertaken in the world--to revive the spirit of chivalry? So he told
the canon of the many fine qualities he had developed since he was dubbed a knight, such as
courtesy, generosity, valor, good breeding, patience, and many others that he mentioned; how
he had learned to bear hardships of all kinds, and now, of late, enchantment. He ended his
long discourse by expressing a desire that he might soon be an emperor, for, he said, he wished
to do good to some of his faithful friends, especially his squire Sancho Panza.

Sancho heard his master's last words, and reminded him again of the island that he was to govern.
On hearing this, the canon broke in with a few remarks about administration and government,
and their difficulties, and Sancho interrupted the canon to say it would be very easy to find
some one to do all that for him. In reply to this the canon came forward with a good many arguments
phrased in philosophical language which the squire could make neither head nor tail of. So
he took up the thread of his own mind, and replied: "I have as much soul as another, and as
much body as any one, and I shall be as much king of my realm as any other of his; so let the
country come, and God be with you, and let us see one another, as one blind man said to the other."

All the canon could do when he realized how badly both master and servant were in the clutch
of their beliefs and superstitions, was to wonder at it. But by the time Sancho had finished
his words, the repast was being served on the grass.

As they were about to seat themselves, a goat came running from between the trees, pursued
by a man whose clear voice could be heard distinctly from the distance. Soon he came up, and
he caught the goat by the horns and began to talk to her, calling her daughter, as if she had
been a child. The goat seemed to understand everything, and the canon was so impressed with
the scene that he asked the goatherd not to be in a hurry, but to sit down and eat with them.

The goatherd accepted the invitation; and when they had finished the repast, they had found
that he was by no means a fool. When he asked them if they would like to hear a true story,
they were all anxious to have him tell it to them. Only Sancho Panza withdrew, that he might
get a chance to load himself brimful of food; for he had heard his master once say that a knight
errant's squire should eat until he could hold no more. The goatherd began his story, after
having told the goat to lie down beside him. She did so, and while the goatherd was telling
the story of his unfortunate love for Leandra, a rich farmer's daughter, who had jilted both
him and his rival Anselmo for the good looks of a braggard by the name of Vicente de la Roca,
the goat was looking up into his face with an expression as it seemed of understanding and
sympathy. Don Quixote offered him the aid of his sword for the future, and said that if he
had not been enchanted at this moment he would at once set out to free his Leandra. When the
goatherd perceived Don Quixote's strange behavior and appearance and heard his remarkable language,
he was struck with amazement, and asked the barber what madness was his, who talked like the
knights he had read about in the books of knight-errantry. Scarcely had Don Quixote heard that
he was being taken for a madman by the goatherd than he flew at him in a raging fit. The most
fierce battle ensued, during which the faces of both men were scratched until they could hardly
be recognized. They fought in the midst of the setting for the meal, and plates and glasses
were smashed and upset. Both were urged on like dogs by the rest of the company, and soon blood
began to flow. Finally Don Quixote stumbled, and the goatherd managed to get him on his back,
while Sancho was held off by one of the canon's servants, moaning all the while because he
could not go to his master's rescue.

Just then a trumpet blew a solemn note, and all listened in surprise. Don Quixote was all eagerness:
there was no doubt in his mind but that he was being summoned by one in distress, so he asked
for and received an hour's truce from the goatherd. As soon as he was on his feet, he ran to
Rocinante, whom he bridled in great haste, and set off, armed with lance, buckler, sword and
helmet, in the direction of the sound.

What Don Quixote saw when he had ridden a short distance at his charger's usual comfortable
canter was a procession of penitents, clad in white, some of whom were carrying an image, draped
in black. The procession had been called for by the priests who desired to bring relief to
the country, which had been suffering that year from a terrific heat and a lack of rain. They
were now marching to a nearby hermitage, where they wanted to do penance, praying in silence
to God that he might have pity on them.

But what could such a procession have suggested to an imaginative mind like Don Quixote's but
one of the many incidents that he had read of in his books of chivalry, where some great and
worthy lady was being carried away by evil forces? To the knight the covered image easily became
the worthy lady. Violently kicking Rocinante in the sides, for he had not had time to put on
his spurs, he tried to increase his steed's canter to a gallop that he might attack in real
knight errant fashion.

The faithful squire, the curate, the canon and the barber all did their best to stop the knight
by their yells. It is a procession of penitents!" And then he asked him, filled with horror
and almost choking with tears, whether he knew what he was doing. Why, he was charging the
blessed image of the immaculate and holy Virgin Mary! Sancho, seeing his master's lifted lance,
could not know that his master wanted to release her.

When Don Quixote had reached the penitents, he abruptly halted his horse and demanded in no
uncertain, though flowery, language that the fair lady--whom, he said, he could plainly see
they were carrying away against her will--be released at once.

One of four priests, who had just begun to chant the Litany, stopped on a high note and answered
the knight that he must not hold up the singing or the procession, for the marchers were doing
penitence by whipping themselves and could not stop once they had commenced the ceremony. Again
Don Quixote put forth his demand, this time in language that seemed much more ludicrous to
the penitents so that some of them could not resist bursting into laughter. This sign of disrespect
was too much for our errant, who started his attack but was prevented from finishing it by
the blow of a stick carried by one of the penitents. With one thwack of it he was felled to
the ground.

Sancho had now come up, and when he saw his master stretched out, with no sign of life, his
eyes filled with tears, and he thrust himself over his master's body, crying and wailing like
a little child. It was pitiful to see the sorrow and the devotion of the poor, simple-minded
fellow, bewailing his master's fall from the blow of a mere stick. And he ended his tribute
by thanking him for the great generosity he had always shown; for Don Quixote, for but eight
months of service, had given him the best island that was afloat in the sea.

Sancho was suddenly called from his grief by the weak voice of the knight, who implored his
squire to mount him on the ox-cart, as his shoulder was in a dilapidated condition. Then he
commended himself to his Lady Dulcinea, while Sancho recommended that they return with their
friends to their village, where they could prepare for another sally at a more favorable time.
The knight seemed inclined to take his squire's advice, for he remarked that it was not a bad
idea: that in the meantime the prevailing evil influence of the stars might disappear.

By this time the curate, the canon and the officers of the Brotherhood had arrived at the spot,
and the curate found that he knew one of the priests in the procession. This simplified matters
considerably, for he found it easy to explain to his friend the malady and peculiarities of
Don Quixote, which had been the cause of so much disturbance in so short a time. After the
curate had taken leave of the canon, the goatherd and those in the procession, he paid off
the officers, who considered it unwise to accompany the party any further. The canon begged
the curate to keep him informed of any change in Don Quixote's behavior, as he was most interested
in his case. Then Don Quixote was heaved into the cart where a stack of hay served as a softer
resting-place this time; and after six days of travel, the oxen and the cart and the whole
procession entered the La Mancha village. When they passed the square, it being Sunday, the
people crowded around them, and all were amazed at what they saw.

Soon Don Quixote's niece and his housekeeper got word of his homecoming. When they saw him,
and observed his pallor and leanness, they began to weep and beat their breasts, and curse
all books of chivalry.

Then Sancho Panza's wife learned the news, and as soon as she saw her husband the first thing
she asked him was whether the donkey was well. To this greeting he replied that the donkey
was better than he himself. And then she pestered him with questions as to what he had brought
back with him for her and the children; to which he impatiently remarked that she would have
to wait until he got his island or empire, when she would be called Her Ladyship. Of course,
it was not to be expected that Teresa Panza should understand this; and she did not. Sancho
attempted to give her an insight into the intricacies of knight-errantry by telling her of
some of his remarkable experiences, such as the blanketing, which stood out in his mind's eye
as the culmination of suffering in his career as a squire.

While this was going on in the Panza household, Don Quixote had been undressed and put to bed
by his niece and the housekeeper. The curate had told them what troubles and tribulations he
had been forced to undergo in order to restore him to his community and his loved ones. So
they decided, with fear in their hearts, to be ever watchful, lest he escape and depart on
another rampage. And again and again they would curse the books that they had burned too late.
During that time neither the curate nor the barber had been to see him for fear that the sight
of them would remind him of his days of knight-errantry and make him long for another campaign.
They did visit the niece and housekeeper, however, and advised them from time to time what
to do; and at last the women began to think that there was hope for our knight's being restored
to his right mind, for his conversation never touched upon deeds of chivalry, and when he spoke
on other subjects he always talked most sanely.

Finally the curate and the barber decided to pay their friend a visit, firmly resolved not
to let the subject of conversation turn to knight-errantry. They found him in bed, with a red
Toledo cap on his head. His face had changed greatly; it was so withered and yellow that it
resembled parchment rather than human flesh. He greeted them cordially, however, and soon they
engaged in an animated conversation, which finally turned to such an intricate subject as government.
So unusually sane and clear was Don Quixote's reasoning that his friends were amazed at the
change that had taken place, and they felt quite certain that he was cured. Then they began
to discuss the news from the capital, and the curate mentioned that the Turk was expected to
attack. Nobody knew when, he said, but in order to safeguard the island of Malta and the coasts
of Naples and Sicily, His Majesty had already made provisions for the defense of these provinces.

Here Don Quixote interrupted and said that His Majesty could easily settle the whole thing
if he would only follow his advice. Both the curate and the barber began to wonder and worry
about what his plan might be, but before divulging it Don Quixote insisted upon absolute secrecy,
which of course they promised. And then he began in the old, familiar strain, citing the examples
of the innumerable heroes of his condemned books of chivalry, heroes who, single-handed, had
conquered armies of millions. He finished with a tirade about God's providing such a knight
errant to-day to save the nation and Christianity against the onslaught of the heathen Turk,
with an inference in his last words that he was to be the chosen savior.

When the two women heard Don Quixote again rave in this manner, they burst into tears, and
the curate and the barber were as sorry and concerned as the women. The curate turned in bewilderment
to his poor friend and asked him whether he truly believed that the heroes of these tales of
chivalry were men of flesh and blood. He himself, he said, was convinced that these stories
were nothing but fables and falsehoods, and that none of the personages in them ever lived.
Whereupon Don Quixote began to ridicule the curate, and went on to describe his heroes, saying
that his faith was so strong that he could almost swear he had seen Amadis of Gaul and some
of the others he worshiped. Then he embarked on a description of these knights, giving the
color of their eyes, of their beards and hair, their height, complexion, all according to his
own crazy imagination. Much of what he said seemed so amusing to his two friends that they
nearly went into hysterics from laughter. His mind's image of Roland was particularly laughable,
for he saw him as a bow-legged, swarthy-complexioned gentleman with a hairy body, courteous
and well-bred.

On hearing Roland so pictured, the curate remarked it was no wonder that he was jilted by the
fair lady Angelica. To this Don Quixote retorted that lady Angelica was a giddy and frivolous
damsel with desires that smacked of wantonness. He only regretted that Roland had not been
a poet that he might have libeled her in poetry for all eternity.

Here the knight was interrupted by the sound of loud talking in the courtyard, intermingled
with screams, and when he and the curate came running they saw the two women struggling to
keep a man from entering the house. But the housekeeper and the niece were bent on not admitting
him, for they considered Sancho the arch enticer and felt that he was to blame for Don Quixote's
expeditions into the country. When Sancho heard himself thus accused, he defended himself with
accusations against Don Quixote, who, he said, had been the one to hypnotize him; and then
he added that he had come to find out about his island.

As soon as Don Quixote recognized his squire, he quickly took him inside, being afraid that
he would tell the women all the little details of the knight's adventures, such as the galley-slave
episode and others not tending to reflect honor on his shield. Whereupon the barber and the
curate left, both of them in despair of their friend's ever being cured. The curate remarked
that it would not surprise him to learn before many moons that Don Quixote and Sancho had set
off again on another sally. They were curious to know what the master and the servant might
be discussing at that very moment. However, the curate was of the firm belief that they could
rely upon the two women to keep their ears to the door. They would learn from them what had
been the topic, and what had been said.

When Don Quixote was alone with his squire, he expressed dismay over his having told the housekeeper
the knight had taken him from house and home, when he knew perfectly well that he had gone
of his own free will. They had shared everything, he said; everything except blows, where he
had had a distinct advantage over his squire, having taken ninety-nine out of a hundred beatings.
This dividing of fortune, Sancho thought, was quite as it should be, for of course knights
errant ought to share the greater benefits of the battle. Here Don Quixote interrupted with
a Latin quotation, which had an evil effect on Sancho, for it made him retaliate with the blanket
episode which to him still seemed the height of all his suffering in the world. But this attempt
to belittle the fairness of his master's division of honors in battle was speedily parried
by Don Quixote, who maintained that his squire's bodily suffering in the blanket was as nothing
compared with the painful agony of his own heart and soul when he had seen his squire in such
a predicament. And then he proceeded to question Sancho as to public opinion of his deeds and
valor.

Sancho was inclined to be reticent; but urged by Don Quixote--and having been forgiven in advance
for any vexation he might cause him by telling the truth--he told of the variety of opinions
that existed in the village. This his master thought only natural; for when had the world ever
given full recognition to a genius or a great hero until after he was dead? He pointed to all
the great names he could recollect in history that had been persecuted.

But Sancho had not come to the worst; and at last he found sufficient courage to tell his master
of a book entitled "The Ingenious Gentleman, Don Quixote of La Mancha," which had already,
he said, been spread abroad. In this book not only Don Quixote, but he himself--under his own
name!--and the Lady Dulcinea del Toboso figured; and he was so stupefied that he had to cross
himself, for he could not imagine how everything that had been told in the book--the most intimate
happenings between Don Quixote and himself--had come to be known to the author. Don Quixote
thought it was very plain that the adventures must have been reported by some sage and enchanter;
but Sancho told him that the author was one Cid Hamet Berengena (meaning eggplant). It was
no other than the son of Bartholomew Carrasco, who had been a student at Salamanca, who had
told him all this, he said. He asked his master whether he should like to see the young bachelor,
and Don Quixote begged him to run and fetch him at once, for, he said, he would be unable to
digest a thing until he had had a talk with him.

"Cid Hamet Berengena," repeated Don Quixote to himself. "That is a Moorish name."

"Yes, I have heard the Moors like eggplant," added Sancho.

And then his lord and master asked: "Didst thou not mistake the surname of this 'Cid,' which
means in Arabic 'lord,' Sancho?"

"Perhaps," said Sancho; "but the bachelor can tell you that."

And he ran to fetch him. But perhaps it was not true that such a chronicle had been written.
It seemed almost an impossibility, for it was only a short time since he returned from his
achievements. What worried him most was the thought that this Cid Hamet Berengena might have
made public in some odious way that great love and sacred passion of his for the beautiful
and virtuous Lady Dulcinea del Toboso.

As he was thus meditating Sancho returned, bringing with him the younger Carrasco, who went
by the strong name of Samson, in defiance of his unpretentious size. But what he lacked in
this respect, he made up for in wit and humor. He was about twenty-four years of age, had a
round jovial face, a large mouth and a flat nose. What more need one know to be inclined to
think he might be mischievous? He gave proof of it as soon as he entered, for he fell on his
knees and kissed the hero's hand respectfully, pronouncing him the first and foremost warrior
and knight of the age. Then he called down a blessing on the name of Cid Hamet Benengeli, his
noble biographer, and on the worthy, learned man who had translated the work from the difficult
Arabic into their pure Castilian for the edification of all the Spanish people who knew how
to read their own language.

"So then there is a history of me--and written by a Moor and a sage?" asked Don Quixote, as
he bade Samson rise.

The bachelor assented and went on to tell how the world was clamoring for this remarkable chronicle
of heroism and sacrifices. Don Quixote remarked here what a great source of joy and inspiration
it should prove to a man with achievements to his credit to see himself in print before being
dead. The bachelor's opinion on the subject coincided with his own; and Samson took the opportunity
to pay homage to the marvelous courage, intrepidity, gallantry, gentleness and patience of
Don Quixote, as the author had described it in the book. He also spoke feelingly of the beautiful,
platonic courtship of our knight errant; and the mention of this caused Don Quixote to ask
which of his many acts of chivalry were most appealing to the reader. The bachelor replied
that that depended greatly upon the reader's taste: some liked the adventure of the windmills
that were enchanted giants; others preferred reading about the two armies that suddenly turned
into droves of sheep; then again there were those who seemed to think the victorious assault
on the Biscayan made a thrilling chapter; while many would swear they had never read anything
that excited them quite as much as the account of the liberation of the galley slaves.

Sancho interrupted him here, asking what was said of their experience with the Yanguesans,
when the good Rocinante went looking for adventure and was bitten by the ponies. Samson replied
that the sage had forgotten nothing; not even the capers that Sancho himself had cut in the
blanket. Whereupon Sancho said: "I cut no capers in the blanket. In the air I did, and more
of them than I liked!" But Don Quixote interposed here, saying that history must of necessity
be more than one-sided. It must take into its pages adversities as well as good fortune.

Some people, the bachelor held forth, had expressed a desire that the author might have eliminated
some of the cruel thrashings he had given the hero; but Sancho differed with these people and
supported the author unqualifiedly, saying, with a glance at Don Quixote, "That is where the
truth of the history comes in!"

Of course Don Quixote saw it in a different light, for he thought that the thrashings tended
to bring the hero of the book into contempt. The author should have passed them over in silence,
he said. Sancho muttered something to himself, and Don Quixote admonished him to be quiet so
that the bachelor might tell him more of what was said of him in the book.

"And about me!" broke in Sancho, "for they say that I am one of the principal presonages in it."

"Personages," corrected Samson, adding that Sancho was the second person in the chronicle,
although many thought he was even first. He also remarked that the author had been criticized
for having inserted a story called "Ill-Advised Curiosity," which had nothing to do with Don
Quixote whatever. This Don Quixote thought was an infringement on the hero's rights, and corroborated
the justification of the criticism.

Thus Don Quixote learned from the bachelor all about his own deeds and exploits, as they had
been given to the world by the great Moorish sage Cid Hamet Benengeli. And when he had asked
about himself again and again, and had been satisfied by the replies of Samson, he found it
was nearly dinner time. Sancho took a hurried leave, fearing the wrath of his wife if he were
late for his meal, and Don Quixote asked the bachelor to stay and keep him company.

All the while they were eating, Don Quixote entertained his guest with tales of chivalry. When
they finished their repast, they took a nap, and when they awoke, Sancho was there waiting
for them to return to their conversation concerning the famous chronicle. Sancho replied that
he had spent them for the benefit of himself, his wife and children; adding that, had he come
back to his wife without riches of any sort, he would have had a doubtful reward waiting for
him. Now, he said, if anybody wanted to know anything about him, he was ready to answer the
King himself.

Don Quixote was curious to know whether there was to be a second part to the book; and Samson
replied that the author was diligently looking for one, but had as yet found none; so it remained
only a possibility. Yet, inspired by the profits he had made out of the first book, he was
anxious to find a second part, he said.

"The author looks for money and profit, does he?" asked Sancho.

Scarcely had Sancho spoken these words, when Rocinante commenced to neigh; and how could this
be interpreted to be anything else than a good omen? In an instant Don Quixote had resolved
to sally forth again in a few days. The bachelor warned him this time to expose himself to
no such tremendous risks as on his previous sallies, and begged him to remember always, his
life was no longer his own, but was dedicated to those in need and in despair.

"There is what I abominate, Señor Samson," Sancho sustained him.

And here it was that Sancho felt it a solemn duty to himself and his wife and offspring to
come to a definite understanding with his master regarding his position in battle. He wanted
it stipulated that his master was to do all the fighting. He would willingly look after his
master's and Rocinante's comfort, and keep them clean, but when it came to drawing sword, he
would leave that honor to Don Quixote, he declared. He would do his duty so well that it would
be worth a kingdom as well as an island, both of which he would gladly accept.

The bachelor, having recommended Saragossa and the kingdom of Aragon as hotbeds of adventure,
Don Quixote thanked him and asked him whether he was a poet; to which the bachelor replied
that he was not one of the famous ones. Don Quixote explained that he wanted a most original
idea of his carried out in poetry. Could Samson write a poem of love in such a manner as to
have the first letters of each line, reading downward, form the name of his beloved one, the
peerless Dulcinea del Toboso? Samson promised he would try, but Don Quixote replied: "It must
be done by some means or other, for unless the name stands there plain and manifest, no woman
would believe the verses were made for her." And so the bachelor promised to do it, and to
have them ready before the day of the departure, which would be on the third day.

Don Quixote extracted a promise from Samson to keep his intentions a secret; and he and Sancho
took leave of him, Don Quixote promising he would not fail to send him word of his conquests.
Sancho in the meantime went home and began preparations for their second quest of adventure.
After much persuasion, he finally told her that he had made up his mind to go out in the world
again with his master, looking for strange adventures, during which, he said, he hoped to come
across another hundred crowns that he would bring home to her. Then Sancho proceeded to tell
his wife of his great plans for the future, when he became ruler of his island. Their daughter,
Maria, he was going to marry off to some great count; his wife would be Doña Teresa Panza,
and he pictured her already, dressed according to richest fashion, sitting in her pew in church,
surrounded by cushions and pillows, and walking on a red plush carpet. And as to his son, he
should, of course, as was the custom, follow his father's trade; so what was he to do but be
a ruler?

But everything that her illustrious husband proposed, Teresa Panza only sneered at; and this
angered Sancho, who thought she might be more appreciative. Certainly not every husband in
their village offered to do as much for his wife and family. And so they began to quarrel with
each other, Sancho using--as he invariably did with his master--all the proverbs he had ever
heard, to defeat the arguments his wife put forward, enforced in the same manner. But when
her good Sancho finally lost his patience with her entirely, she gave in and promised to go
so far as to send their young son to him--that his father might train him in the business of
government--as soon as Sancho, as the governor of the island, should send his wife the necessary
money. Sancho charged her particularly with the task of seeing that the son on his departure
should be dressed as a prince of the blood.

And all the while poor Teresa Panza was receiving her husband's instructions as to herself
and her two children, she was bemoaning and struggling against their fate in her heart; and
at last she burst into bitter tears. Seeing her in such agony because he had predestined that
their daughter Maria was to marry a mighty count instead of a poor peasant boy, Sancho tried
to soothe her feelings by telling her that he would try to put off the day of the wedding as
long as possible; and this promise seemed to cheer Teresa Panza to some extent, for she dried
her tears.

Having accomplished so much, Sancho then went back to his master's house to talk over some
things of importance with him. The housekeeper had had a premonition of her master's impending
expedition, and soon perceived by his actions that she had not been alarmed in vain. She and
the niece employed all possible means to restrain him from faring forth; but to all their admonitions
and advice and prayers he made the same reply: that there must be knights errant in the world
to defend the weak and virtuous and to punish arrogance and sin, and that he was the one to
set the world aright on that score. And when his niece began to bewail his stubbornness and
called down the wrath of heaven upon all tales of chivalry, he threatened to chastise her for
uttering such blasphemies. Then he burst into a tirade on things and usages pertaining to chivalry,
a discourse so saturated with knowledge that it called forth a cry of astonishment, a wail
of disappointment, and a sigh of pity from the niece, to whom it suddenly seemed that her uncle
had missed his vocation in life when he did not become a preacher.

This drove Don Quixote to discourse on almost everything under the sun, and he finished up
by reciting poetry, at which the niece became terror-stricken from superstition, and exclaimed
that her uncle knew everything in the world. She even dared to suppose he knew something about
masonry and could build a house. This daring thought of hers he immediately corroborated by
saying that if he were not so occupied with dealing out justice to the world, there would be
nothing he could not do, from building cages to making toothpicks.

Just then there was a knock at the door. It was Sancho Panza. As soon as the housekeeper learned
it was he, she fled from the room, for she had grown to detest him like sin itself. The niece
opened the door for him, and he hastened to his master's room, where he was welcomed by Don
Quixote. And soon they were in the midst of a conversation, which took place behind locked
doors. She knew that her master had taken a fancy to this learned young man and thought he
might be able to persuade him to give up the crazy idea. She fell on her knees before Samson
and told him in excited language that her master had broken out again.

"Where is he breaking out?" asked the roguish bachelor.

"He is breaking out at the door of his madness," replied the bewildered housekeeper. "I mean
he is going to break out again, for the third time, to hunt all over the world for what he
calls adventures."

And then she went on to say that his first sally ended in his being brought back home, slung
across the back of a donkey. The second time he made his entry into the village in an ox-cart,
shut up in a cage, and looking so worn and emaciated that his own mother would not have known
him. The last escapade had been an extremely expensive one, for it had taken no less than six
hundred eggs to cover up his bones again.

The bachelor quieted the housekeeper, and promised her to do all he could for her master. Then
he advised her to return home and prepare something hot for breakfast, and on her way home
to repeat the prayer of Santa Appolonia. He himself would be there in time for breakfast, he
said. The housekeeper remonstrated with the bachelor for prescribing the prayer of Santa Appolonia,
which, she declared, was for toothache and not for brains; but Samson told her to do as he
bade her, reminding her that he was a learned bachelor of Salamanca and knew what he was talking
about. The housekeeper then left, saying her prayer, and the bachelor went to look for the
curate that they might decide what to do.

In the meantime Don Quixote and Sancho were discussing what the future was holding for them,
and Sancho gave the glad news to his master that he had induced his wife to sanction his departure
and his becoming governor. Sancho was very much annoyed by his master's continual interruptions
and corrections. Whenever Sancho would misuse or abuse a word, as he did in almost every sentence,
Don Quixote would stop and ask him what he meant, until poor Sancho was so confused that he
did not know what he had meant. Finally Don Quixote asked him to tell him all that his wife
had said, and as soon as Sancho had a chance to use proverbs again, he felt more at home. "Teresa
says," he repeated, "that I should make sure with your Worship, and let papers speak and beards
be still. One take is better than two I'll give thee's."

"And so say I," said Don Quixote. "Continue, Sancho my friend.

Here Don Quixote felt he ought to ask a question. "Sancho," said he, "all that is true; but
what art thou driving at?"

And then came the reason for all these long-winded preliminaries. Sancho wanted his master
to make definite arrangements with him for compensation. But here was the drawback. Don Quixote
could recall no incident in any of the many books he had read, when a knight errant had given
his squire fixed wages. How could he possibly establish a precedent now? And so it became his
sad and solemn duty to refuse his squire's miserly request, and inform him that his services
were no longer wanted. Not only that, but our valiant hero was cruel enough to remark that
there would be any number of people who would be only too eager to serve him; and, what was
more, he was convinced that no one could be less careful and diligent, or more thick-headed
and talkative than Sancho.

Poor Sancho stood thunderstruck. He had expected his master would address him in a much more
gracious manner; and had taken for granted that his own person was indispensable to his master.
As he stood there gaping in amazement, the bachelor, Samson, suddenly entered, followed by
the niece and the housekeeper. Samson threw himself on his knees before the knight, passionately
declaiming:

"O flower of knight-errantry! O shining light of arms! O honor and mirror of the Spanish nation!

Then he rose and turned to the housekeeper, who was distressed and astonished beyond words,
telling her it was no use gainsaying her master; that he had made up his mind, and no Santa
Appolonia or any other prayer would cause him to change it. Whereupon he addressed Don Quixote
again in the same lofty way, and slyly asked him whether he would deign to accept him as his
squire or as his meanest servant.

Sancho's eyes nearly bulged out of his head at this, and filled with tears. Fearing that he
might lose both his master and his island, he embraced Don Quixote's knees and kissed his hand,
begging Don Quixote not to give him up. Then he began to plead with him to leave the village
at once. Don Quixote, having taken the squire into his fold again, embraced him, and then conferred
with the bachelor and decided that they would set out three days hence. Samson promised to
obtain a helmet for Don Quixote before the departure.

In the meantime the bachelor had daily conferences with the curate and the barber. The niece
and the housekeeper were cursing the evil and learned bachelor of Salamanca, and hardly slept
at night for fear that Don Quixote would steal away in the darkness.

Finally the night of the third day arrived, and Don Quixote and Sancho, accompanied by Samson,
quietly and secretly stole out of the village, in the direction of El Toboso. When they had
ridden half a league, Samson wished the knight errant godspeed, embraced him tenderly, begged
him to let him hear of his good fortune, and then he returned to the village. But it so happened
that Dapple kept up his braying. As a matter of fact he brayed so much louder than the emaciated
Rocinante could neigh that the superstitious Sancho took it for a sign that his own good fortune
would be ever so much greater than that of his master, though he was considerate enough to
say nothing about it to him.

Night soon began to fall, and the conversation between master and squire turned to Don Quixote's
incomparable love, whom he had never seen in the flesh, and to whose abode he was now making
this pilgrimage in the dark, that he might be blessed by her before going into new battles.

Sancho was beginning to worry that his imagination, with which he was not overburdened, would
give out; for with every new question of his master's he had to give a fresh answer, and he
was in a deadly fear that Don Quixote might discover that he had never been at El Toboso with
the letter to his Lady Dulcinea. Again Don Quixote asked his squire to repeat how he had been
received when he had brought her the message of his master's penance in the wilderness, but
it infuriated him that Sancho should insist on her having been sifting wheat instead of pearls
on that occasion. The courtyard wall mentioned by his squire must, of course, have been a portico,
or corridor, or gallery of some rich and royal palace, only Sancho's language was so limited
he could not express himself or describe things properly. Or perhaps that infernal enchanter
had been busy again, and made things appear in different shapes before his squire's eyes.

What his master said made Sancho's thought suddenly turn to the book which the bachelor Samson
had spoken of, and he began to worry that some enchanter might have misrepresented his true
character in its pages. He felt it his place and duty to defend himself aloud against any such
evil; and having his master as audience, he proceeded to carry out this thought, which, however,
he abandoned towards the end in favor of a careless independence: "But let them say what they
like; naked was I born, naked I find myself. I neither lose nor gain.

Don Quixote was dumfounded by his squire's suddenness, but replied: "The answer is easy. It
is a greater work to bring to life a dead man."

"Now I have got you!" Sancho exclaimed. Then he divulged his longing, which he wanted his master
to share, to become a saint; viewing a saint's life from all sides, he had come to the conclusion
that it was a much more peaceful life than that of a roving knight errant, who had to be up
at all hours and out in all sorts of weather.

But his master answered laconically: "We cannot all be friars." And then he went on to say
that the number of knights errant in the world, deserving that name, was a very small one;
that, as a matter of truth, knight-errantry, was a religion. But Sancho, stubborn as usual,
insisted that there were more friars in heaven than knights errant. In this way they passed
that night and the following day, without any trace of excitement or adventure.

Finally, at daybreak on the second day, they approached the great city of El Toboso; and Sancho's
worries increased as they came closer to the place where the heart of the peerless Dulcinea
was beating--for what was he going to say or do when his master wanted to meet his beloved
one? Don Quixote decided to await dusk before entering the city, and they spent the day resting
in the shade of some oak-trees outside the town.

CHAPTER IX

WHEREIN IS RELATED WHAT WILL BE SEEN THERE

It was midnight when they rode into El Toboso. It was a very dark night, so Sancho could not
be blamed for not finding the house in the darkness. They were greeted by a multitude of noises:
barking dogs, braying asses, mewing cats, and grunting pigs; noises that seemed like an ill
omen to Don Quixote. He suddenly turned to Sancho and said: "Sancho, my son, lead on to the
place of Dulcinea. It may be that we shall find her awake."

"Body of the sun! What palace am I to lead to, when what I saw Her Highness in was only a very
little house?" exclaimed the squire.

Here Sancho told his master to have it his own way, but asked him whether he thought it in
conformity with the behavior of a gentleman to go around in the middle of the night knocking
at people's doors. Don Quixote dispensed with the discussion of this particular point; all
he wanted to do, he said, was to find the house. Then they could discuss how to proceed. So
they roamed about the city, Don Quixote insisting that first one house and then another was
the palace of his love, until they finally hit upon the great tower of the church. At last
he had found it, he declared. Here was where she dwelt, he was quite sure.

But Sancho, hearing this and seeing it was a church, began to feel ill at ease, for his superstitious
soul did not like the idea of walking across a graveyard at such an hour of the night. He quickly
told his master, he was now certain that the Lady Dulcinea lived in an alley, a kind thought
which was rewarded by a fierce outburst from Don Quixote.

"The curse of God on thee for a blockhead!" he exclaimed.

"I wish I saw the dogs eating it for leading us such a dance," was all that Sancho said in reply.

But evidently this was not a pleasing answer to Don Quixote, for he admonished his squire:
"Speak respectfully of what belongs to my lady; let us keep the feast in peace, and not throw
the rope after the bucket!"

Sancho muttered something about how he could be expected to find, in the dark of night, a house
he had only seen once in his lifetime, when his master, who must have seen it hundreds of times,
could not recognize it. To this his master retorted wearily that he had told him a thousand
times that he was enamored only by hearsay, and had never visited Dulcinea in her palace.

At this moment a laborer on his way to his work came along on the road, singing a dreary song.
It was only another omen to Don Quixote that his efforts to approach his lady would not be
crowned with success that night. He asked the man to direct him to the palace of his princess,
but the laborer turned out to be a stranger, having only just come to the city.

Don Quixote was grieved that he could not find Dulcinea, and when Sancho suggested that they
withdraw from the city and develop a plan for seeing her, he was ready to accept it. So they
left El Toboso and hid in a forest nearby. There it was decided that Sancho should return to
the city as the messenger of love for his master. Sancho then set off on Dapple; but as soon
as he was out of sight, he dismounted, seated himself on the ground, and took measure of the
situation aloud. In a meditative soliloquy he discussed with himself the problem that was his,
and he finally reasoned that there was a remedy for everything except death. If his master
could take windmills for giants, and a flock of sheep for an army, why could he not take black
for white, and any country lass that came along, for his princess? Having reached this satisfactory
conclusion, he decided to remain where he was till in the afternoon, in which time he could
reasonably have gone to El Toboso and returned.

As the afternoon arrived, three country girls came along on their donkeys, on the road from
the city. The moment Sancho saw them, he mounted his ass and returned to find his master, who
nearly went out of his head with joy, and promised Sancho the three next foals from his three
mares, when his squire told him that the Lady Dulcinea was coming to see him, accompanied by
two of her ladies-in-waiting. And then the lying Sancho went on to describe them: how they
were robed in richest brocade, and weighted down with jewels--precious stones and pearls. But
when Don Quixote saw the three peasant girls approach, he said he could see nothing but three
jackasses and three girls. Any princess, or any one like one, he failed to see. Finally Sancho
persuaded him to believe that those he saw were really three ladies, one of them being the
Peerless One, who had come to bestow her blessing upon him. And so Don Quixote fell on his
knees in the dust of the road before the girls, giving vent to his immeasurable gratitude to
her, his queen, who had come all this distance to give him her blessing.

When the ugly peasant girl heard herself called a queen and Dulcinea, she thought that Don
Quixote was trying to play a joke on her, so she got angry, and yelled to him: "Get out of
the way, bad luck to you, and let us pass, for we are in a hurry!" and left the astonished
knight crawling in the dust.

When the wenches were out of sight, Don Quixote turned to his squire and bemoaned, cast-down,
his evil fate, and the length his sage enemy would go to gain his ends. The very worst thing
of all, he said, was that the evil enchanter had turned his Dulcinea into an ugly peasant,
who smelled of garlic. And while Don Quixote was thus complaining, Sancho struggled to hide
his laughter, happy to have saved himself and to have played such a joke on his master.

At last Don Quixote was ready to mount his hack, and they steered their beasts in the direction
of Saragossa.

Sancho did his best to imbue his master with a new inspiration; for Don Quixote was a sorry
sight as he was riding along on his hack. The enchantment of his Dulcinea had been a great
blow to him. He fell into a sort of meditative slumber, from which he would rouse himself only
now and then. Suddenly, however, he was fully awake, for on the road he saw before his very
eyes a cart with Death on the front seat, and drawn by mules that were being led by the Devil
himself.

As soon as the knight could gather his senses, he distinguished the rest of the strange company
that occupied the cart. Next to Death sat an ugly angel with wings, and on the other side Don
Quixote observed an emperor with a crown of gold on his head. Then he discovered Cupid--who
was a god--and a knight with plumes in his hat. There were a number of other figures, all weird
and awe-inspiring, in strange costumes and with curious faces, and when Sancho saw them he
turned as pale as Death himself, and his teeth began to chatter from fright. Even Don Quixote
was more than startled, but his heroism soon asserted itself, and he was quickly himself again,
glad to sense another adventure. The devil was extremely polite and offered to give Don Quixote
any information he could, adding that, being the devil, he was up to everything; besides he
played the leading parts, he said. Don Quixote told them how disappointed he was that this
had not turned out to be another adventure; then he wished them a happy journey, saying that
ever since he was a child he had been an admirer of the actor and fond of his art.

As they were about to take leave, one of the mummers, with three blown ox-bladders at the end
of a stick, came up and banged them against the ground under Rocinante's nose; and the frightened
animal set off across the plain as if he had been shot out of a cannon, taking the bit in his
teeth. Sancho was so certain his master would be thrown that he left his donkey and ran as
fast as he could after Rocinante. But when he reached Don Quixote, the knight was already on
the ground and with him Rocinante, whose legs always seemed to give away after a sudden strain.

Now, as soon as Sancho had run away from Dapple, the crazy devil with the bladders was on his
back tickling his ears with them, and the donkey flew across the fields toward the village
as if beset.

Seeing his faithful one running away, Sancho was in mortal agony, as well as in a quandary,
for he did not know whether to attend to the donkey or his master first. Finally he found his
love for human beings was the greater, and rushed to his master's side. When he had helped
him to mount, he told him that the devil had run away with Dapple. Immediately Don Quixote
was ready to pursue the enemy; but just then the squire saw his Dapple come running back, and
cautioned his master to be meek.

But Don Quixote was eager to give the mummer a lesson in courtesy, even, as he said, if he
had to visit his sin upon the rest of the company, not barring the Emperor himself. Sancho
did his best to warn his master that there was great danger in meddling with actors, as they
were a favored class; but had the King himself interfered in their behalf, it would not have
stayed the hand of the errant revenger.

So Don Quixote drew forth, and caught up with the cart as it was close to the village. He commanded
the players to halt, saying he wanted to teach them how to be courteous to donkeys and animals
that served squires and knights errant for steeds. The merrymakers could tell by his stentorian
tone that he was not jesting, so they all quickly jumped out of the cart and armed themselves
with stones.

By this time Sancho had reached the scene of action, and as soon as he saw the threatening
attitude of the strollers, he begged his master not to fight against either Death or the angels,
particularly since neither one of them was a knight errant; nor was there any one in the whole
company who was. This point Don Quixote thought was wisely taken, and he ordered his squire
to fight the battle himself. But Sancho said he preferred to show a Christian spirit and forgive,
and promised his master he would come to an agreement with his donkey to leave his end of the
grievance to the squire's goodwill.

Don Quixote let Sancho have his way; and when they had seen the caravan of mountebanks disappear,
Sancho was happy in the thought that he had averted a great calamity for himself and his master.
Every phrase abounded with them. As ever, he would use them to fit the wrong case, or twist
them so as to fit what he wanted them to fit. Don Quixote had to laugh at his squire's simplicity,
and at the way he tried to imitate his master's manner of speaking. His words and expressions
were indeed a strange mixture. One moment he would use the most abominable grammar and the
next he would borrow the language of Don Quixote, repeating in stilted fashion the polite phrases
he had heard Don Quixote use in his flowery discourses on knighthood and chivalry.

Soon after they had fallen asleep, Don Quixote was awakened by the sound of men's voices. He
quickly rose, curious and anxious to learn who the disturbers were, and was amazed to behold
a real knight, clad in full armor, dismount from his horse, while speaking words that indicated
he was lovesick and in despair. Don Quixote hastened to call Sancho, who awoke to the tune
of a love sonnet sung by the strange knight, and was as startled as his master had been, though,
perhaps, not greatly thrilled at this promise of a new adventure in the middle of the night.
But Sancho soon gave himself and his master away to the Knight of the Grove by becoming too
talkative, and they were hailed by the knight, who greeted them in the most courteous manner,
when he learned who they were.

The two knights errant soon were engaged in a friendly conversation, which Sancho could not
restrain himself from breaking into; but the Knight of the Grove was quick to reprimand him,
saying he never permitted his squire to open his mouth. Whereupon Sancho persuaded himself
and the squire of the Grove to remove to a spot where they could talk between themselves without
being overheard by their superiors, and where they might be undisturbed by any yoke of knighthood
etiquette.

CHAPTERS XIII-XIV

IN WHICH IS CONTINUED THE ADVENTURE OF THE KNIGHT OF THE GROVE, TOGETHER WITH THE SENSIBLE
AND TRANQUIL COLLOQUY THAT PASSED BETWEEN THE TWO SQUIRES

The two squires drank and talked most of the night, bemoaning the fate of squires in general.
Before they finally fell asleep, the squire of the Grove suggested that, since they both were
tired of knight-errantry, they give up the life. To this Sancho replied that he would remain
in his master's service until he arrived at Saragossa, when he might decide to leave him.

In the meantime the two knights also were exchanging confidences; and the Knight of the Grove
told Don Quixote of all the great and famous errants he had conquered in single combat. Don
Quixote suppressed a scornful smile that threatened to betray him, and controlled the feelings
that the boasting errant's words provoked, while wondering at the braggart's audacity. He slyly
expressed a doubt, however, that the valiant knight Don Quixote of La Mancha had let himself
be vanquished by any living being. The Knight of the Grove then gave a description of Don Quixote
which in every detail fitted him.

That drew Don Quixote out of his originally assumed indifference. He told the knight that he
himself was no other than that famed and illustrious errant, and declared that any other one
that had appeared as Don Quixote, must have been some enchanter who had disguised himself to
resemble him, in order to defraud him of the honor that was rightly due to him. Then he proceeded
to tell the knight how his enemy had transformed the Lady Dulcinea, and challenged the Knight
of the Grove to single combat if he dared to question what Don Quixote maintained to be the truth.

To this challenge the Knight of the Grove retorted that since he had once vanquished the semblance
of Don Quixote, he would now welcome the opportunity of meeting him in combat in his own proper
shape. Being a cautious and cold-blooded knight, however, he suggested to Don Quixote that
they should rest until the morning, when the mighty struggle could ensue in the light of day.
It was further agreed that the vanquished knight should place himself at the command of the
victor, to fulfill any desire of his within the bounds of chivalry.

Each one was eager to inform his own squire of what the morning was to behold, so they awoke
Sancho and the squire of the Grove and told them. Sancho was scared that his master might not
be the gainer, for the squire of the Grove had been feeding him with stories of his master's
conquests all that night until they had fallen asleep, drunk with wine.

The squires went to get the horses ready, and on the way Sancho was aghast to learn that he
would have to fight the friendly squire of the Grove in cold blood, this squire maintaining
that such was a rule among knights errant. Sancho said he would rather give two pounds of wax
to the church than fight with him; furthermore, he said, he could not, for he had no sword,
and never had had one. Whereupon the friendly squire told him that did not matter, and proceeded
to make ready two linen bags, both of the same size, saying they could fight their duel in
this fashion. This was most pleasing to Sancho, until he perceived the other squire filling
the bags with pebbles, when he remonstrated, saying he thought their masters could settle the
whole affair without their interference. But his friend the squire insisted that they fight,
even if it should be only for half an hour, and offered--if he should have any difficulty in
rousing himself to the occasion--to give Sancho a few cudgels and whacks to act as an inspiration.

By this time it was beginning to dawn, and Sancho was watching the sunrise. As he looked around,
the first object that he saw the sunrays strike was the nose of the squire of the Grove, protruding
out of the opened visor of his helmet. It was an object so fearful to look at that Sancho Panza
was paralyzed with fright. The nose was so large it seemed uncanny. It was covered with warts
and was bent at a tremendous angle, and it hung down way beneath his chin, while its color
was that of an eggplant. It was a face so horrible and ugly to look at that Sancho's eyes nearly
rolled out of his head. He acted as if he were about to have convulsions, for he began to tremble
from head to foot. When Don Quixote beheld the squire's countenance, even he began to show
signs of feebleness, but his bravery overcame his fears. He shrugged his shoulders as if shaking
off an evil spirit, and was ready for the combat with his adversary.

Before the battle began, Sancho pleaded with his master to help him up into a tree; so afraid
was he of this monstrous squire with the awful nose. But while Don Quixote was hoisting his
faithful one up into a cork-tree, he suddenly heard the knight approach on his steed behind
him, and not knowing whether it was squire or master, and being subconsciously afraid of the
nose, one blow of which might have felled him, it seemed, he turned around and made straight
for the knight.

The facts were that this gentleman was trying to limber up the joints of his charger--a hack
of the same caliber as Rocinante--and was just taking his horse on a tour of exercise, making
him skip hither and thither, wherever his master's agonized spurring would carry him. Each
time he would land heavily on his stiff legs, and it was when Don Quixote suddenly heard the
sound of such a landing behind him that he turned. But by the time Rocinante had completed
the turn, which was a movement of much contemplation and hesitation on his part, the back of
the Knight of the Grove shone in the distance. Charging by sound and instinct rather than by
sight, not seeing whether the knight was coming or going, Don Quixote set upon him with such
blind fury that with one thrust of his lance he sent the bespangled gentleman flying out of
his saddle, so that he fell flat on the ground, seemingly dead.

Now, when Sancho saw what an auspicious beginning and ending the adventure had had for his
master, he heaved a sigh of relief and contentment and climbed down from his tree, approaching
the lifeless monster with caution and superstitious awe. But he had taken only one look into
his face, when he began to cross himself with so many motions and contortions that Don Quixote
thought his squire had gone insane. Turning to his master, who had been contemplating his victory
with pride from the back of Rocinante, Sancho begged him to thrust his sword into the mouth
of his vanquished foe.

"I have it here in my pocket," answered the squire of the Grove, as he pulled out and showed
him a false nose of immense proportions.

Whereupon Sancho eyed the squire more carefully, and suddenly cried out: "Holy Mary be good
to me! Isn't it Tom Cecial, my neighbor and gossip!"

And Tom was only too glad to confess that he was.

At this very moment the bachelor returned from the dead, and when Don Quixote saw him open
his eyes, he pointed his sword at his face and swore that the Knight of the Mirrors--thus he
called the Knight of the Grove because of his shining regalia--would be a dead man if he did
not pronounce the Lady Dulcinea del Toboso the most beautiful woman in the world. Furthermore,
he demanded that he swear to present himself before the Peerless One in the city of El Toboso,
that she might deal out judgment upon him. Having been dealt with by her, the Knight of the
Grove was to return to inform him of the punishment, giving a full account of what had passed
between them.

The fallen Samson gladly confessed to everything, including his belief in the true identity
of his conqueror. He felt an urgent need for medicine and plaster, and he and his squire departed
quickly to seek such aid in the nearest village, while Don Quixote and Sancho took the road
which lead to Saragossa.

CHAPTER XV

WHEREIN IT IS MADE KNOWN HOW THE KNIGHT OF THE MIRROR AND HIS SQUIRE EMERGED FROM THEIR ADVENTURE

As Don Quixote was bumping along on his lean Rocinante, he was dreaming of the return of the
Knight of the Mirrors, who would bring him word about his beloved one. He was anxious to know
whether she was still enchanted. Then he thought of the great victory he had won over this
bold knight, and it was perhaps only pardonable if it aroused some conceit in his breast.

But while Don Quixote was contemplating thus, the bachelor-knight kept bemoaning the fate he
had brought upon himself. He had dubbed himself Knight at his own instigation, for the kindly
and unselfish purpose of unseating and vanquishing Don Quixote in battle, thinking, of course,
that that would be an easy matter to accomplish. It was for good reasons he had proposed that
the vanquished one should place himself at the disposal of the victor. The bachelor, the curate,
and the barber had conferred after Don Quixote's departure as to what to do, and when the bachelor
Samson offered to go crusading and to bring back Don Quixote, the two gossips were pleased
beyond words. A neighbor of Sancho's, Tom Cecial by name, was induced to become the squire
of the knight Samson.

Both knight and squire were now contemplating in a sorry mood the disastrous outcome of their
encounter with the Knight of the Rueful Countenance. As they were staggering along on their
decrepit mounts, the squire summed up the thoughts of his master Samson in this question: "I'd
like to know now which is the madder, he who is so because he can not help it, or he who is
so of his own choice?"

While the learned bachelor was thoroughly in accord with the good reason for asking such a
question, he could not at the same time help acknowledging the fact that the thrashing he had
received was paining him. The desire he had had when he started out looking for Don Quixote--to
bring him back to his home and his wits--was now changed into a wild inner cry for revenge.

At last some of the physical agony of the Knight of the Mirrors was stilled by a quack, whom
they found in a town along the road. Tom Cecial, the squire for a day and a night, had been
cured of knight-errantry and returned to his less venturesome occupation in his La Mancha village;
but the thoughts of evilness would not leave his master, who stayed behind, bent on having
his revenge. When he told his master, Don Quixote asked him whether he ever for a moment doubted
that the knight of the Mirrors and his squire were anything but enchanted and made to appear
like the two village friends of theirs. The idea that Samson, who was such a devoted friend
of his, should be envious of his deeds in battle and have wanted to steal away honors from
him as a knight, was too absurd; and with this he dismissed the subject.

While they were discussing these matters and the enchantment of the Lady Dulcinea, they were
passed by a gentleman on horseback, and Don Quixote called to him and asked him politely whether
he would not join company with them. The traveler accepted the knight's invitation, and both
were soon scrutinizing each other. The gentleman, a man about fifty years of age, with handsome
features, wondered at the strange appearance of Don Quixote; and when our knight saw his wonder,
he told him why he was so attired and what he had set out to accomplish in the world. This
confession drew forth still more astonishment on the gentleman's countenance, but he finally
found words to ask whether he could really believe his own ears, for he had thought knight-errantry
extinct. It was not long, however, before he realized that he was talking to a madman; and
then Sancho Panza came under his observation, and he was deemed a simpleton.

Don Quixote had asked the newcomer's name, and learned it was Don Diego de Miranda; and then
the knight was curious to know what he did with his life. Whereupon Don Diego proceeded to
tell his fellow-travelers of his tame and godly life in the country with his wife and children;
and he pronounced in the course of his description some very beautiful thoughts and principles,
which so took Sancho's fancy that he jumped off Dapple, embraced the gentleman's leg, and began
to kiss his feet in the most passionate and ardent way.

Astonished, the good gentleman inquired what all this display meant; and Sancho begged of him
between his transports: "Let me kiss, for I think your Worship is the first saint in the saddle
I ever saw!"

Of course, the gentleman confessed his sinfulness to Sancho, who refused to change his opinion,
in spite of his master's honest laughter. Then the gentleman told Don Quixote about his great
pride, his son, who was eighteen years old, had been a student at Salamanca, and wrote divine
poems. This immediately inspired Don Quixote to a discourse on poetry, in which he dwelt on
the dishonor of commercializing this great gift of the gods. He finished his speech with the
advice to Don Diego that he bring up his son to write discourses in which all vice was flayed
and all sin chided and rebuked. Above all, he said, a poet must never let envy or personal
grudge and hatred guide his pen. When the traveler heard Don Quixote speak in so wise and discerning
manner, he was aghast; and he was entirely at a loss to know how to judge him. He was inclined
to think that what he had taken for madness in him was nothing but eccentricity.

But while Don Quixote was discoursing on poetry, Sancho, on seeing some shepherds, had fled
to beg some ewe milk of them. When his master had finished his discourse, and the gentleman
was silently considering his madness, Sancho suddenly heard himself called to battle. Having
in his possession his master's helmet, he spurred his donkey to further increase his efforts
toward speed, and when he reached the valiant knight, he discovered the reason for the call:
a cart bedecked with royal flags approaching on the road. The first thing Don Quixote did when
Sancho had caught up with him, was to snatch the helmet from him, exclaiming that he had to
make ready for what promised to be an exciting adventure; while all Sancho could see was the
cart with the royal flags, probably carrying some treasure of the kings. As Sancho stood watching
the cart, Don Quixote resolutely put on the helmet, which he proceeded to press down on his
head in order to make it sit fast; but as he did so, the curds were squeezed, and the whey
began to run down over his face, so that Don Quixote imagined that he had been taken with softening
of the brain.

Sancho said nothing but gave his master something to wipe his face with, and Don Quixote muttered
that if this was sweat he was certain it was going to be a horrible adventure. As he was drying
his face, he took off his helmet, and when he smelled the curds he turned to Sancho in great
perturbation and accused him of having put them there, calling him a traitor and a scoundrel,
and threatening to thrash him. But Sancho eyed his master innocently, and blamed it all on
the devil or some enchanter, saying that his master might know that if he had had curds, he
would have put them in his stomach and not in his master's helmet.

This was a convincing argument to the knight, who now busied himself with the cart, which had
nearly reached them. He called out to the driver and a man on mule-back, who were the only
attendants: "Whither are you going, brothers? What cart is this? What have you got in it? What
flags are those?"

The man on the mule answered that the cart was his, that he was transporting a pair of enormous
lions as a present from the Governor of Oran to His Majesty the King; that the flags were those
of the King, and that therefore the property was royal property. He added that the lions were
hungry, since they had not eaten anything that day, and that he was in great haste to reach
a place where he could feed them.

Here Don Quixote smiled a scornful, superior smile, and calmly told the keeper of the lions
to open the cages and let out the beasts that they might learn who the courageous Don Quixote
of La Mancha might be. When Sancho heard how mad his master was, he turned in sickly fear to
the traveling gentleman and begged him for God's sake to keep his master from having a combat
with the lions. The gentleman asked Sancho whether he thought his master would really be so
foolish as to do such a thing; and Sancho's firm and emphatic reply made the gentleman hasten
to the knight's side in an attempt to reason with him. He was promptly reprimanded by Don Quixote,
however, who told him sharply to mind his own business, and then threatened to pin the keeper
to the cart with his lance if he did not open the cages and chase out the lions at once.

There was an indescribable consternation and confusion. The driver pleaded with Don Quixote
on his knees, and when they all saw that he was determined to meet with the lions in combat,
they began to pick up their belongings and run away into safety. Sancho and the gentleman made
still another attempt to bring him to his senses, but all their pleas were in vain. Sancho
left his master with the tears falling down his cheeks, and Don Quixote ordered the gentleman
to speed away on his flea-bitten mare as fast as he could, if he was afraid to be bitten by
the lions.

Then Don Quixote decided it might be better to fight on foot, as he was afraid that his Rocinante
might be frightened on seeing the beasts; so, sword in hand, he bravely advanced towards the
cage. The keeper timidly opened the doors of the first cage, and a male lion of tremendous
size, stretching himself leisurely, put his claws through the opening; then he yawned sleepily,
and after some deliberation began to lick his eyes and face with his long, fierce tongue. Having
thus washed his dirty face, he put his head out of the cage and stood gazing into space with
a ferocious look in his eyes, which resembled glowing coals. Not even seeming surprised at
the sight of the valiant knight, he then had the audacity to turn his back on our hero, and
calmly and proudly lay down, with his hindquarters under Don Quixote's very nose.

Such unheard-of scorn angered the knight, who commanded the keeper to take a stick and poke
the beast out of the cage; but here he met with unyielding obstinacy, for this the man refused
to do under any circumstances, saying that the first one to be chewed to pieces, if he did
that, would be himself. Then he began to praise and flatter Don Quixote's courage which, he
said, by this feat had been unequaled in the world. His adversary the lion, he said, had proven
by his very action that he considered Don Quixote a superior foe; and when the keeper promised
to give Don Quixote a certificate to the effect that the lion had been challenged in true knight
errant fashion and refused to give battle, Don Quixote was soothed, and bade the keeper shut
the doors to the cage and recall the fugitives that they might hear from the keeper's lips
the true account of his remarkable achievement.

The first thing Don Quixote did when Sancho had joined him was to order him to give two gold
crowns to the driver and the keeper for lost time; but before Sancho carried out his master's
command he was anxious to know whether the lions were dead or alive. Whereupon the keeper related
how the valiant knight had single handed dared the lions to come out of their cage, and how
they meekly and cowardly had refused at the sight of so bold a warrior; and he embellished
his story with numerous little details--in anticipation of the gold crown--and added that when
he returned to Madrid he would not fail to inform the King of his marvelous exploit.

When Don Quixote heard this, his heart beat faster, and he told the keeper that if the King
should happen to ask who performed this great deed, to say it was the Knight of the Lions,
since he had decided to adopt this name hereafter.

So the cart proceeded toward the capital, and Don Quixote, Sancho, and the traveling gentleman
went their way. Don Diego bade them make haste that they might reach his village before nightfall,
and he asked Don Quixote to spend the night at his house and rest after his exertions--an invitation
that the knight accepted with profuse thanks. The latter advanced to the wife and kissed her
virtuously on the hand, after having first asked her permission; and she received him courteously,
as did the son also. Then he was escorted into the house, and Sancho helped him to remove his
armor and to wash him clean of the curds, which had run down his face and his neck. This being
done, Don Quixote joined father and son in another room.

It was not long before Don Lorenzo, the young son, was perplexed by the knight's behavior and
conversation, and at his first opportunity he confided this perplexity to his father. Don Diego
told him that he himself was at his wit's end, for he had heard him speak as sensibly as he
ever heard any man speak; then again, he said, he had seen him perform the most unbelievable
acts of madness. Don Lorenzo again engaged in conversation with Don Quixote, who told the young
man that he had already learned from his father of his great talents as a poet. The youth modestly
disclaimed being entitled to be called a great poet; and the absence of conceit in one of this
calling pleased the knight greatly. And he went on, discoursing on matters pertaining to education,
on universities, and degrees, and his opinions seemed to Don Lorenzo so authoritative and advanced
that he was at a loss to know what to conclude, until Don Quixote suddenly began to talk about
the science of knight-errantry, which he maintained surpassed all other sciences.

Don Lorenzo interrupted, of course, saying that he had never heard of any such science; he
had read books of chivalry but had never believed that any knights had existed, he said. When
Don Quixote heard the youth speak such blasphemy, he prayed that heaven should deliver him
from his false illusions as to the existence of knight-errantry! Just then dinner was served.

While they were eating, Don Quixote asked Don Lorenzo to repeat some of his verses to him,
and the youth read some of his glosses and sonnets. Don Quixote was extremely impressed with
them, and he praised the youth's rare gift in eloquent language. This praise--although he knew
it to come from a madman--so pleased Don Lorenzo's father that he begged Don Quixote to remain;
and for four days the knight was entertained by Don Diego.

Then Don Quixote felt it his duty to break away from luxury and idleness in order to live up
to the laws of knight-errantry, Sancho left with a sigh, and a tear in his eye, for never in
his life had he lived so well. However, he saw to it that he was well provisioned before they
departed. Don Quixote was anxious to see the poet turn knight-errant, he said, but since his
parents no doubt would not permit him to give up his chosen work he thought it best not to
attempt to sway them in their convictions. And so he and his squire took leave with many courtesies,
while Don Diego and his family were pitying the poor demented knight in their hearts and still
were wondering at his nonsense.

CHAPTER XIX

IN WHICH IS RELATED THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENAMORED SHEPHERD, TOGETHER WITH OTHER TRULY DROLL
INCIDENTS

They had traveled but a short time when they met some students and peasants on mule-back, and
since they were going in the same direction Don Quixote offered them his protection if they
would only make the pace of their young mules conform with that of his steed and Dapple. They
agreed to do so, and it was not long ere the Knight of the Lions had introduced himself to
his companions, and told them of his revival. The students were quick to perceive that he was
demented; but not so the peasants, who could make neither head nor tail of what he said, and
ascribed this to their own ignorance.

The students invited the knight to come with them to a wedding-feast, and immediately he asked
which prince was to be married without his knowing it. The students informed him that it was
not any prince's wedding, but that of a rich farmer by the name of Camacho, who was marrying
the fair Quiteria, daughter of a rich man in their neighborhood. Quiteria, they said, was in
love with one Basilio, a poor young shepherd, whom her father had sent away in anger from his
house, forbidding him ever to see his daughter again. As a result of this banishment and his
being separated from his love, he had now gone mad.

Don Quixote, having listened attentively to the students' story, began a discourse on love
and marriage. Now and then Sancho interrupted him with strings of proverbs; this would infuriate
his master by making him deviate from his subject. Finally Don Quixote retaliated by attacking
and criticising Sancho's language, which he said was atrocious.

Soon their arguments were taken up by the students. One of them stood by Sancho; the other
one took Don Quixote's point of view. Having once been involved, they argued first on one subject,
then on another, until at last foils and the art of fencing became the subject. It so happened
that one of them was carrying his foils with him, and he suggested that they settle their argument
then and there. They did so under Don Quixote's chivalrous supervision, and when the engagement
had come to an end, the one who had challenged was so worn and torn that Sancho felt sorry
for him and went over to console him; at the same time he felt it his duty to advise him never
again to fence, although he did not advise him against wrestling or throwing the bar, for he
was strong enough for that, he thought. Whereupon the challenger rose and embraced his adversary,
and after that they were better friends than ever.

They pursued their journey, and before long it grew dark. Soon afterwards they heard the musicians
at the wedding, and saw the preparations that were being made for it. Here Don Quixote took
leave of the students and the peasants, saying that being a knight-errant, he was obliged to
give up the comfort of a bed, and would go to sleep in the woods or some lonely field. They
did their best to persuade him to accept their hospitality--aided and abetted by the comfort-loving
Sancho--but all remonstrances were in vain, much to Sancho's regret. After having soliloquized
at length before the sleeping squire, he awoke him by ticking him with his lance. Sancho smelled
the preparations for the wedding-feast, and at once was wide awake. His master asked him to
hasten and come along, and they set off on their mounts and soon arrived at the place where
the wedding was to be celebrated. They found there an arcade erected and through this they
entered. There was being cooked and prepared enough food to feed every one in town, and when
Sancho saw all the good things, his mouth began to water, and he could hardly control himself.
As a matter of fact, he soon succumbed to his temptations and he did not have to beg twice,
for the cooks told him that this was a day on which no one was to go hungry, that being the
wish of the rich Camacho, and they even told him to keep the spoon. So Sancho skimmed all the
pots to his heart's content.

Soon the musicians and dancers arrived, and these performed an allegorical dance and play,
but nothing interested Sancho as much as the skimmings, to which he returned after having finished
an argument with his master about the relative qualities of Camacho the Rich and the poor Basilio;
Camacho being the better provider, Sancho was decidedly in favor of him.

CHAPTER XXI

IN WHICH CAMACHO'S WEDDING IS CONTINUED, WITH OTHER DELIGHTFUL INCIDENTS

Sancho was still eating when suddenly loud exclamations and shouts were heard; and when he
and Don Quixote looked to see what was the matter, they found that the bride and the bridegroom,
accompanied by the priest and their relatives, were entering the arcade. They proceeded to
a platform, on which they took places, and all noticed that the bride looked very pale. Scarcely
had the bridal party seated themselves, when a voice was heard from behind them, calling out:
"Wait a little, ye, as inconsiderate as ye are hasty!"

All turned and perceived Basilio, poorly clad, with a crown of cypress on his head, and carrying
a staff in his hand. The staff had a sharp end, and this he buried deep in the ground; then,
pale and trembling, he turned to the fair Quiteria and accused her of marrying Camacho because
of his wealth, though she knew she loved no one but himself, Basilio, who was poor, and, therefore,
helpless. As he nevertheless wished them happiness, he would now remove the last obstacle to
this end.

So saying, Basilio pulled from the staff he carried and which served as a sheath, a rapier,
upon which in another instant he had thrown himself. There he lay on the ground, bleeding profusely,
the point of the blade appearing through his back, when his many friends came running to give
him aid. Don Quixote lifted up his head, and they found that he was still breathing. Some one
suggested that they pull out the blade, but the priest warned them not to do that before the
poor man had been given the sacrament, as the moment the rapier was removed, death would follow.

Just then Basilio was heard to say in a weak voice that if he could only be joined to his beloved
one, he would die happy. The priest cautioned him to think of his soul rather than of his body
in these last moments of his, but Basilio interrupted him stubbornly and said he would not
confess until this had been done. When Don Quixote heard the dying man implore the priest to
carry out his wish, he, too, besought him, and added that under the circumstances Señor Camacho
could have nothing against marrying a widow of a man who had died so gallantly and honorably
as Basilio. Camacho heard all this, and when Basilio's friends at the same time entreated him
to think of the poor man's soul, he consented; and as Quiteria, too, was compassionate, the
priest united them as man and wife, gave them his blessing with tears in his eyes, and hoped
that Heaven would receive the soul of the wedded man.

But the instant the ceremony was at an end, the suicide jumped to his feet as lightly as a
deer. Some began to shout that a miracle had been performed. But Basilio was honest and confessed
that he had played a trick; and, indeed, it seemed as if the whole thing had been planned by
the two lovers, for Quiteria said that if the marriage was not valid, she would now confirm
it anew. Some of Camacho's friends became violent and threatened the life of Basilio, but the
valiant Don Quixote did not abandon his new-found friend; he kept them all at a distance with
his lance and his sword.

In the meantime Sancho was guarding a spot that to his mind was the most important one there,
namely where the wine-jars were standing.

When Don Quixote had made himself respected by the followers of the rich Camacho, he addressed
them on the subject of love and war, and held forth to them that all means to an end in these
two games were justifiable, as long as no disgrace was brought on the object of one's love.
Then he threatened to thrash any one who attempted to separate whom God now had joined; and
they were all awed by his resolute language, not knowing who he was. Camacho showed that he
was of good mettle, however, for he invited all to remain and have a merry time, and let the
feast go on as if nothing had happened.

But Basilio was proud, and so were his friends, and they preferred to withdraw to Basilio's
village. They were accompanied by Don Quixote, whom they had invited as a special guest of
honor because of his stout defense of Basilio; and Sancho, of course, had to trail along, much
to his disgust, for he had looked forward to stilling his hunger for days to come on the remnants
of the rich man's wedding-feast. As he was rocking to and fro in his seat on his faithful Dapple,
he was contemplating with a surly and melancholy countenance a glorious, but now past day.
Before the knight took leave of Basilio and Quiteria, he discoursed at length on love and matrimony:
a discourse that Sancho seemed to take more to heart than they did, for when his master had
finished he was heard muttering that he wished he had had such advice before marrying his wife.

"Is thy Teresa so bad then, Sancho?" asked Don Quixote.

"She is not very bad," replied the downtrodden squire, "but she is not very good; at least
she is not as good as I could wish."

"Thou dost wrong, Sancho, to speak ill of thy wife," admonished his master; "for after all
she is the mother of thy children."

And to this the squire answered: "We are quits, for she speaks ill of me whenever she takes
it into her head, especially when she is jealous; and Satan himself could not put up with her
then."

Having exchanged these thoughts with his squire, Don Quixote decided it was time to take to
the open again, and he begged one of the students who had invited him to the wedding to find
him a guide to take him to the cave of Montesinos. The student provided him with a cousin of
his own, a young scholar who was very much interested in tales of chivalry; and, followed by
the earnest prayers of those they left behind, the three set out for the famous cave.

Don Quixote wanted the scholar to tell him all about himself, and when he learned, he had had
books printed which were inscribed to princes, he wanted to know what kind of books they were.
When he mentioned that he was writing one now that was to deal with the invention of customs
and things, Sancho became interested and thrust this question at him, which he answered himself:
"Tell me, Señor--and God give you luck in printing your books!--who was the first man that
scratched his head? For to my thinking it must have been our father Adam."

Glad to have had his supposition corroborated by so great an authority as an author of books,
Sancho was encouraged to ask numerous other questions of the same caliber; and this helped
to make the time seem short. When night fell they had reached a little village, from where
it was only a very short distance to the cave.

As Don Quixote was intent on discovering the cave's inmost secrets, he provided himself with
a hundred fathoms of rope, and the following afternoon he was at the cavern, ready for the
hazardous undertaking. Don Quixote was tied to the end of the rope, and all the while Sancho
was admonishing him not to bury himself alive in the bottomless pit, telling him that he had
no business being an explorer anyway. Before being lowered into the depths, Don Quixote commended
himself to his Lady Dulcinea and sent up a prayer to Heaven on bended knees.

In order to enter the cave, he had to cut his way through the brush, and as he commenced to
swing his sword, a whole city of crows and bats flew against him and knocked him to the ground.
Sancho crossed himself and kept up his vigilance over his master to the last. Finally he saw
him disappear in the coal-black depths, and then he called on all the saints he knew by name
to protect the flower and cream of knight-errantry, the dare-devil of the earth, the heart
of steel and the arm of brass.

At last Sancho and the scholar had given Don Quixote all the hundred fathoms of the rope, and
then they got no more replies to their calls. They waited for half an hour, and then they were
afraid that the knight was dead and decided to haul him up, Sancho weeping bitterly all the
while. But when Sancho saw his master coming up, he could not restrain himself from being hopeful
of a miracle, and he called out gleefully: "Welcome back, Señor, for we had begun to think
you were going to stop there to found a family."

Don Quixote did not move, however, and they laid him on the ground and found he was fast asleep.
When he came to, he was in an exalted state. He raised his eyes toward Heaven, and asked God
to forgive them for having taken him away from such a glorious and spectacular pleasure. But
Sancho was curious to know what he had seen down there in Hell, and he interrupted and asked
the question.

"Hell!" cried Don Quixote. "Call it by no such name, for it does not deserve it."

