"It's all right, Audrey; you never have denied that you love me, and you can't for the life
of you deny it now."

She did not attempt to; for the entrance of the footman with coffee made denial indecent at
the moment, if not impossible. That deus ex machina from below the stage retired, unconscious
of the imminent catastrophe he had averted. But he had brought into the little drama a certain
prosaic element. Coffee and romantic passion do not go hand in hand.

Then it seemed to Audrey that the welcome interval of commonplace lapsed into a dream, in which
Hardy's voice went sounding on in interminable monologue.

"I shall hear the wind, Audrey, rushing over prairies infinite as the sea; I shall see the
great wall of the Rockies rising sky-high. And England will seem like a little piece of patchwork,
with a pattern of mole-hills for mountains, and brooks for rivers. And when I've set our Canadian
farm going, I shall hunt big game. And when I've exterminated the last bison off the face of
the boundless prairie, I shall devote myself to literature."

"Literature?" she echoed faintly. It was all so grotesquely strange that even this announcement
brought only a dreamlike surprise.

"Yes, literature. Do you think literature is only produced by the miserable noodles who sit
in their studies at home, till their muscles wither and their hearts get flabby? My book will
be a man's book, with a man's blood and a man's brains in it. It will be a book that will make
posterity sit up. And when you have enjoyed the fame of it a little, we'll go out again together.
In Canada we shall find a new heaven and a new earth."

She sat silent and passive. The situation had a charm which she was powerless to break. It
seemed as if the mere brute force through which Hardy had dominated her intellect hitherto,
had become refined by some extraordinary process, and was exerting a moral influence over her.
In order to assert herself against the intolerable fascination she rose hastily and crossed
the room to where her piano stood open in the corner.

She played loud and long,--wild Polish music, alive with the beating pulses of love and frenzy
and despair. It would have roused another man to sublime enthusiasm or delirious rapture.

It sent Hardy to sleep.

Stretched on the hearthrug, with slackened jaw, and great chest heaving with regular rise and
fall, he slept like a tired dog. She played on, and as she played he dreamed that he stood
with her in the midst of the burning prairie, they two on a little ring of charred black earth,
an island in a roaring sea of fire. The ring grew smaller and smaller, till they could only
find standing-room by clinging close together. As he turned to her she thrust him from her
into the sea of fire, crying, "It's perfectly fair, Vincent, for you dragged me here against
my will!"

He woke with a snort as the music suddenly ceased. It was midnight. He had to start from home
early next morning, and if he delayed longer he would lose the last train out.

He parted from Audrey as only the traveller outward bound parts from his betrothed. In fact,
as she remarked afterwards, "For the fuss he made about it he might have been going to the
North Pole with his life in his hands. So like Vincent!" As for Hardy, he felt already the
wind of the new heaven and the sweetness of the new earth.

Audrey was staring abstractedly into the looking-glass, when she heard the front-door shut
with a violent bang, and the sound of his quick footsteps on the pavement below. She came to
herself with a cold shiver.

What had she done? Surely she had not gone and engaged herself to Vincent? bound herself in
the first year of her liberty to a man she had known all her life, and her own cousin too?

It was impossible; for, you see, it would have argued great weakness of mind and a total want
of originality.

CHAPTER III

Whether Audrey did or did not understand herself, she was a mystery to all about her, and to
none more than her father's cousin and her own chaperon, Miss Craven. This unfortunate lady,
under stress of circumstances, had accepted the charge of Audrey after her parents' death,
and had never ceased to watch her movements with bewildered interest and surprise. The most
familiar phenomena are often the least understood, and Miss Craven's intelligence was daily
baffled by the problem of Audrey. Daily she renewed her researches, with enthusiasm which would
have done credit to a natural philosopher, but hitherto she had found no hypothesis to cover
all the facts. The girl was either a rule for herself, or the exception that proved other people's
rules; and Miss Craven was obliged to rest satisfied in the vague conclusion that she had a
great deal of "character." Strange to say, that is how Audrey struck most of her acquaintance,
though as yet no one had been known to venture on further definition. Miss Craven was repaid
for her affectionate solicitude by an indifference none the less galling because evidently
unstudied. Audrey rather liked her chaperon than otherwise. The "poor old thing," as she called
her, never got in her way, never questioned her will, and made no claims whatsoever on her
valuable time; besides relieving her of all those little duties that make us wonder whether
life be worth living.

Under the present dispensation chaperons were a necessary evil; and Audrey was not one to fly
heedlessly in the face of her Providence, Society.

All the same, Miss Craven had her drawbacks. If you, being young and vivacious, take a highly
nervous old lady and keep her in a state of perpetual repression, shutting her out from all
your little confidences, you will find that the curiosity so natural to her age will be sure
to burst out, after such bottling, in alarming effervescence. As soon as Hardy's unmistakable
footsteps were heard on the stairs, she had left the drawing-room on a hint from Audrey. In
her room above she had heard the alternate booming and buzzing of their voices prolonged far
into the night, but could make out no intelligible sounds. To ears tingling with prophetic
apprehension the provocation was intense.

The old lady passed a restless night, and came down to breakfast the next morning quivering
with suppressed excitement. Audrey's face did not inspire confidence; and it was not until
she had touched lightly on the state of the weather, and other topics of general interest,
that Miss Craven darted irrelevantly to her point.

"My dear, is there anything between you and your--er--cousin Mr. Hardy?"

The awful question hung in the air without a context, while Audrey went on making tea. This
she did with a graceful and deliberate precision, completing the delicate operation before
answering.

"Yes, there is a great deal between me and my cousin Mr. Hardy, which neither of us can get over."

There was a freezing finality in the manner of the reply, in spite of the smile which accompanied
it; and even Miss Craven could not fail to understand. She bridled a little, wrapping herself
closer in her soft shawl as in an impenetrable husk of reserve, and began nervously buttering
toast. The whole thing was very odd; but then the ways of Audrey were inscrutable.

