And first, liberty with respect of observances: Francis felt all the emptiness and pride of
most religious observance. He saw the snare that lies hidden there, for the man who carefully
observes all the minutiæ of a religious code risks forgetting the supreme law of love. More
than this, the friar who lays upon himself a certain number of supererogatory facts gains the
admiration of the ignorant, but the pleasure which he finds in this admiration actually transforms
his pious act into sin. Thus, strangely enough, contrary to other founders of orders, he was
continually easing the strictness of the various rules which he laid down.[15] We may not take
this to be a mere accident, for it was only after a struggle with his disciples that he made
his will prevail; and it was precisely those who were most disposed to relax their vow of poverty
who were the most anxious to display certain bigoted observances before the public eye.

"The sinner can fast," Francis would say at such times; "he can pray, weep, macerate himself,
but one thing he cannot do, he cannot be faithful to God." Noble words, not unworthy to fall
from the lips of him who came to preach a worship in spirit and in truth, without temple or
priest; or rather that every fireside shall be a temple and every believer a priest.

Religious formalism, in whatever form of worship, always takes on a forced and morose manner.
Pharisees of every age disfigure their faces that no one may be unaware of their godliness.
Francis not merely could not endure these grimaces of false piety, he actually counted mirth
and joy in the number of religious duties.

How shall one be melancholy who has in the heart an inexhaustible treasure of life and truth
which only increases as one draws upon it? How be sad when in spite of falls one never ceases
to make progress? The pious soul which grows and develops has a joy like that of the child,
happy in feeling its weak little limbs growing strong and permitting it every day a further
exertion.

The word joy is perhaps that which comes most often to the pen of the Franciscan authors;[16]
the master went so far as to make it one of the precepts of the Rule.[17] He was too good a
general not to know that a joyous army is always a victorious army. In the history of the early
Franciscan missions there are bursts of laughter which ring out high and clear.[18]

For that matter, we are apt to imagine the Middle Ages as much more melancholy than they really
were. Men suffered much in those days, but the idea of grief being never separated from that
of penalty, suffering was either an expiation or a test, and sorrow thus regarded loses its
sting; light and hope shine through it.

Francis drew a part of his joy from the communion. He gave to the sacrament of the eucharist
that worship imbued with unutterable emotion, with joyful tears, which has aided some of the
noblest of human souls to endure the burden and heat of the day.[19] The letter of the dogma
was not fixed in the thirteenth century as it is to-day, but all that is beautiful, true, potent,
eternal in the mystical feast instituted by Jesus was then alive in every heart.

The eucharist was truly the viaticum of the soul. Like the pilgrims of Emmaus long ago, in
the hour when the shades of evening fall and a vague sadness invades the soul, when the phantoms
of the night awake and seem to loom up behind all our thoughts, our fathers saw the divine
and mysterious Companion coming toward them; they drank in his words, they felt his strength
descending upon their hearts, all their inward being warmed again, and again they whispered,
"Abide with us, Lord, for the day is far spent and the night approacheth."

And often their prayer was heard.

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] 1 Cel., 62.

   [2] 1 Cel., 66; cf. Bon., 180; 1 Cel., 67; cf. Bon., 182; 1
       Cel., 69; Bon., 183. After St. Francis's death the Narniates
       were the first to come to pray at his tomb. 1 Cel., 128, 135,
       136, 138, 141; Bon., 275.

   [3] As concerning: 1, fidelity to Poverty; 2, prohibition of
       modifying the Rule; 3, the equal authority of the Will and the
       Rule; 4, the request for privileges at the court of Rome; 5, the
       elevation of the friars to high ecclesiastical charges; 6, the
       absolute prohibition of putting themselves in opposition to the
       secular clergy; 7, the interdiction of great churches and rich
       convents. On all these points and many others infidelity to
       Francis's will was complete in the Order less than twenty-five
       years after his death. We might expatiate on all this; the Holy
       See in interpreting the Rule had canonical right on its side,
       but Ubertino di Casali in saying that it was perfectly clear and
       had no need of interpretation had good sense on his side; let
       that suffice! Et est stupor quare queritur expositio super
       litteram sic apertam quia nulla est difficultas in regulæ
       intelligentia. Arbor vitæ crucifixæ, Venice, 1485. lib. v.,
       cap. 3. Sanctus vir Egidius tanto ejulatu clamabat super regulæ
       destructionem quam videbat quod ignorantibus viam spiritus quasi
       videbatur insanus. Id. ibid.

   [4] Heavens drop down your dew, and let the clouds rain down
       the Just One. Anthem for Advent.

   [5] In foramibus petræ nidificabat. 1 Cel., 71. Upon the
       prayers of Francis vide ibid., 71 and 72; 2 Cel., 3, 38-43;
       Ben., 139-148. Cf. 1 Cel., 6; 91; 103; 3 Soc., 8; 12; etc.

   [6] Luke, xxii. 44.

   [7] Felix Kuhn: Luther, sa vie et son oeuvre, Paris, 1883, 3
       vols., 8vo. t. i., p. 128; t. ii., p. 9; t. iii., p. 257.
       Benvenuto Cellini does not hesitate to describe a visit which he
       made one day to the Coliseum in company with a magician whose
       words evoked clouds of devils who filled the whole place. B.
       Cellini, La vita scritta da lui medesimo, Bianchi's edition,
       Florence, 1890, 12mo, p. 33.

   [8] On the devil and Francis vide 1 Cel., 68, 72; 3 Soc., 12; 2
       Cel., 1, 6; 3, 10; 53; 58-65; Bon., 59-62. Cf. Eccl., 3; 5; 13;
       Fior., 29; Spec., 110b. To form an idea of the part taken by
       the devil in the life of a monk at the beginning of the
       thirteenth century, one must read the Dialogus miraculorium of
       Cæsar von Heisterbach.

   [9] Matthew, x. 1.

  [10] Miracles occupy only ten paragraphs (61-70) in 1 Cel., and
       of this number there are several which can hardly be counted as
       Francis's miracles, since they were performed by objects which
       had belonged to him.

  [11] Heretics often took advantage of this thirst for the
       marvellous to dupe the catholics. The Cathari of Moncoul made a
       portrait of the Virgin representing her as one eyed and
       toothless, saying that in his humility Christ had chosen a very
       ugly woman for mother. They had no difficulty in healing several
       cases of disease by its means; the image became famous, was
       venerated almost everywhere, and accomplished many miracles
       until the day when the heretics divulged the deception, to the
       great scandal of the faithful. Egbert von Schönau, Contra
       Catharos. Serm. I. cap. 2. (Patrol. lat. Migne t. 195.) Cf.
       Heisterbach, loc. cit., v. 18. Luc de Tuy, De altera Vita,
       lib. ii. 9; iii. 9, 18 (Patrol. Migne., 208). Gal. vi. 14. This is to this day the
       motto of the Brothers Minor.

  [13] Spec., 182a; 200a; 232a. Cf. 199a.

  [14] 1 Cel., 67.

  [15] Secundum primam regulam fratres feria quarta et sexta et
       per licentiam beati Francisci feria secunda et sabbato
       jejunabant. Giord. 11. cf. Reg. 1221, cap. 3 and Reg. 1223,
       cap. 3, where Friday is the only fast day retained.

  [16] 1 Cel., 10; 22; 27; 31; 42; 80; 2 Cel., 1, 1; 3, 65-68;
       Eccl., 5; 6; Giord., 21; Spec., 119a; Conform., 143a, 2.

  [17] Caveant fratres quod non ostendant se tristes extrinsecus
       nubilosos et hypocritas; sed ostendant se gaudentis in Domine,
       hilares et convenientes gratiosos.

  [18] Eccl., loc. cit.; Giord., loc. cit.

  [19] Vide Test.; 1 Cel., 46; 62; 75; 2 Cel., 3, 129; Spec.,
       44a.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XII

THE CHAPTER-GENERAL OF 1217[1]

After Whitsunday of 1217 chronological notes of Francis's life are numerous enough to make
error almost impossible. Unhappily, this is not the case for the eighteen months which precede
it (autumn of 1215-Whitsunday, 1217). For this period we are reduced to conjecture, or little
better.

As Francis at that time undertook no foreign mission, he doubtless employed his time in evangelizing
Central Italy and in consolidating the foundations of his institution. His presence at Rome
during the Lateran Council (November 11-30, 1215) is possible, but it has left no trace in
the earliest biographies. The Council certainly took the new Order into consideration,[2] but
it was to renew the invitation made to it five years before by the supreme pontiff, to choose
one of the Rules already approved by the Church.[3] St. Dominic, who was then at Rome to beg
for the confirmation of his institute, received the same counsel and immediately conformed
to it. The Holy See would willingly have conceded special constitutions to the Brothers Minor,
if they had adopted for a base the Rule of St. Benedict; thus the Clarisses, except those of
St. Damian, while preserving their name and a certain number of their customs, were obliged
to profess the Benedictine rule.

In spite of all solicitations, Francis insisted upon retaining his own Rule. One is led to
believe that it was to confer upon these questions that we find him at Perugia in July, 1216,
when Innocent III. died.[4]

However this may be, about this epoch the chapters took on a great importance. The Church,
which had looked on at the foundation of the Order with somewhat mixed feelings, could no longer
rest content with being the mere spectator of so profound a movement; it saw the need of utilizing
it.

Ugolini was marvellously well prepared for such a task. Giovanni di San Paolo, Bishop of the
Sabine, charged by Innocent III. to look after the Brothers, died in 1216, and Ugolini was
not slow to offer his protection to Francis, who accepted it with gratitude. This extraordinary
offer is recounted at length by the Three Companions.[5] It must certainly be fixed in the
summer of 1216[6] immediately after the death of Giovanni di San Paolo.

It is very possible that the first chapter held in the presence of this cardinal took place
on May 29, 1216. By an error very common in history, most of the Franciscan writers have referred
to a single date all the scattered incidents concerning the first solemn assizes of the Order,
and have called this typical assembly the Chapter of the Mats. In reality for long years all
the gatherings of the Brothers Minor deserved this name.[7]

Coming together at the season of the greatest heat, they slept in the open air or sheltered
themselves under booths of reeds. We need not pity them. There is nothing like the glorious
transparency of the summer night in Umbria; sometimes in Provence one may enjoy a foretaste
of it, but if at Baux, upon the rock of Doms, or at St. Baume, the sight is equally solemn
and grandiose, it still wants the caressing sweetness, the effluence of life which in Umbria
give the night a bewitching charm.

