Laziness is inherent in these men, for which reason, although extremely powerful, they will
not work unless compelled to do so. Having no God, in the Christian sense of the term, to fear
or worship, they have no love for truth, honour, or honesty. Controlled by no government, nor
yet by home ties, they have no reason to think of or look to the future. Any venture attracts
them when hard-up for food; and the more roving it is, the better they like it. The life of
the sailor is most particularly attractive to the freed slave; for he thinks, in his conceit,
that he is on an equality with all men when once on the muster-rolls, and then he calls all
his fellow-Africans "savages." Still the African's peculiarity sticks to him: he has gained
no permanent good. The association of white men and the glitter of money merely dazzle him.
He apes like a monkey the jolly Jack Tar, and spends his wages accordingly. If chance brings
him back again to Zanzibar, he calls his old Arab master his father, and goes into slavery
with as much zest as ever.

I have spoken of these freed men as if they had no religion. This is practically true, though
theoretically not so; for the Arabs, on circumcising them, teach them to repeat the words Allah
and Mohammed, and perhaps a few others; but not one in ten knows what a soul means, nor do
they expect to meet with either reward or punishment in the next world, though they are taught
to regard animals as clean and unclean, and some go through the form of a pilgrimage to Mecca.
Indeed the whole of their spiritual education goes into oaths and ejaculations--Allah and Mohammed
being as common in their mouths as damn and blast are with our soldiers and sailors. The long
and short of this story is, that the freed men generally turn out a loose, roving, reckless
set of beings, quick-witted as the Yankee, from the simple fact that they imagine all political
matters affect them, and therefore they must have a word in every debate. Nevertheless they
are seldom wise; and lying being more familiar to their constitution than truth-saying, they
are for ever concocting dodges with the view, which they glory in of successfully cheating
people. Sometimes they will show great kindness, even bravery amounting to heroism, and proportionate
affection; at another time, without any cause, they will desert and be treacherous to their
sworn friends in the most dastardly manner. Whatever the freak of the moment is, that they
adopt in the most thoughtless manner, even though they may have calculated on advantages beforehand
in the opposite direction. In fact, no one can rely upon them even for a moment. Dog wit, or
any silly remarks, will set them giggling. Any toy will amuse them. Highly conceited of their
personal appearance, they are for ever cutting their hair in different fashions, to surprise
a friend; or if a rag be thrown away, they will all in turn fight for it to bind on their heads,
then on their loins or spears, peacocking about with it before their admiring comrades. Even
strange feathers or skins are treated by them in the same way.

Should one happen to have anything specially to communicate to his master in camp, he will
enter giggling, sidle up to the pole of a hut, commence scratching his back with it, then stretch
and yawn, and gradually, in bursts of loud laughter, slip down to the ground on his stern,
when he drums with his hands on the top of a box until summoned to know what he has at heart,
when he delivers himself in a peculiar manner, laughs and yawns again, and, saying it is time
to go, walks off in the same way as he came. At other times when he is called, he will come
sucking away at the spout of a tea-pot, or, scratching his naked arm-pits with a table-knife,
or, perhaps, polishing the plates for dinner with his dirty loin-cloth. If sent to market to
purchase a fowl, he comes back with a cock tied by the legs to the end of a stick, swinging
and squalling in the most piteous manner. Then, arrived at the cook-shop, he throws the bird
down on the ground, holds its head between his toes, plucks the feathers to bare its throat,
and then, raising a prayer, cuts its head off.

But enough of the freed man in camp; on the march he is no better. If you give him a gun and
some ammunition to protect him in case of emergencies, he will promise to save it, but forthwith
expends it by firing it off in the air, and demands more, else he will fear to venture amongst
the "savages." Suppose you give him a box of bottles to carry, or a desk, or anything else
that requires great care, and you caution him of its contents, the first thing he does is to
commence swinging it round and round, or putting it topsy-turvy on the top of his head, when
he will run off at a jog-trot, singing and laughing in the most provoking manner, and thinking
no more about it than if it were an old stone; even if rain were falling, he would put it in
the best place to get wet through. Economy, care, or forethought never enters his head; the
first thing to hand is the right thing for him; and rather then take the trouble even to look
for his own rope to tie up his bundle, he would cut off his master's tent-ropes or steal his
comrade's. His greatest delight is in the fair sex, and when he can't get them, next comes
beer, song, and a dance.

Now, this is a mild specimen of the "rowdy" negro, who has contributed more to open Africa
to enterprise and civilisation than any one else. Possessed of a wonderful amount of loquacity,
great risibility, but no stability--a creature of impulse--a grown child, in short--at first
sight it seems wonderful how he can be trained to work; for there is now law, no home to bind
him--he could run away at any moment; and presuming on this, he sins, expecting to be forgiven.
Great forbearance, occasionally tinctured with a little fatherly severity, is I believe, the
best dose for him; for he says to his master, in the most childish manner, after sinning, "You
ought to forgive and to forget; for are you not a big man who should be above harbouring spite,
though for a moment you may be angry? Flog me if you like, but don't keep count against me,
else I shall run away; and what will you do then?"

The language of this people is just as strange as they are themselves. It is based on euphony,
from which cause it is very complex, the more especially so as it requires one to be possessed
of a negro's turn of mind to appreciate the system, and unravel the secret of its euphonic
concord. A Kisuahili grammar, written by Dr. Krapf, will exemplify what I mean. There is one
peculiarity, however, to which I would direct the attention of the reader most particularly,
which is, that Wa prefixed to the essential word of a country, means men or people; M prefixed,
means man or individual; U, in the same way, means place or locality; and Ki prefixed indicates
the language. Example:--Wagogo, is the people of Gogo; Mgogo, is a Gogo man; Ugogo, is the
country of Gogo; and Kigogo, the language of Gogo.

The only direction here necessary as regards pronunciation of native words refers to the u,
which represents a sound corresponding to that of the oo in woo.

Journal of the Discovery of The Source of the Nile

Chapter 1. London to Zanzibar, 1859

The design--The Preparations--Departure--The Cape--The Zulu Kafirs--Turtle-Turning--Capture
of a Slaver--Arrive at Zanzibar--Local Politics and News Since Last Visit--Organisation of
the Expedition.

My third expedition in Africa, which was avowedly for the purpose of establishing the truth
of my assertion that the Victoria N'yanza, which I discovered on the 30th July 1858, would
eventually prove to be the source of the Nile, may be said to have commenced on the 9th May
1859, the first day after my return to England from my second expedition, when, at the invitation
of Sir. R. I. Murchison, I called at his house to show him my map for the information of the
Royal Geographical Society. Sir Roderick, I need only say, at once accepted my views; and,
knowing my ardent desire to prove to the world, by actual inspection of the exit, that the
Victoria N'yanza was the source of the Nile, seized the enlightened view, that such a discovery
should not be lost to the glory of England and the Society of which he was President; and said
to me, "Speke, we must send you there again." I was then officially directed, much against
my own inclination, to lecture at the Royal Geographical Society on the geography of Africa,
which I had, as the sole surveyor of the second expedition, laid down on our maps. [4] A council
of the Geographical Society was now convened to ascertain what projects I had in view for making
good my discovery by connecting the lake with the Nile, as also what assistance I should want
for that purpose.

Some thought my best plan would be to go up the Nile, which seemed to them the natural course
to pursue, especially as the Nile was said, though nobody believed it, to have been navigated
by expeditions sent out by Mehemet Ali, Viceroy of Egypt, up to 3° 22' north latitude. To this
I objected, as so many had tried it and failed, from reasons which had not transpired; and,
at the same time, I said that if they would give me œ5000 down at once, I would return to Zanzibar
at the end of the year, March to Kaze again, and make the necessary investigations of the Victoria
lake. Although, in addition to the journey to the source of the river, I also proposed spending
three years in the country, looking up tributaries, inspecting watersheds, navigating the lake,
and making collections on all branches of natural history, yet £5000 was thought by the Geographical
Society too large a sum to expect from the Government; so I accepted the half, saying that,
whatever the expedition might cost, I would make good the rest, as, under any circumstances,
I would complete what I had begun, or die in the attempt.

My motive for deferring the journey a year was the hope that I might, in the meanwhile, send
on fifty men, carrying beads and brass wire, under charge of Arab ivory-traders, to Karague,
and fifty men more, in the same way, to Kaze; whilst I, arriving in the best season for travelling
(May, June, or July), would be able to push on expeditiously to my depots so formed, and thus
escape the great disadvantages of travelling with a large caravan in a country where no laws
prevail to protect one against desertions and theft. Moreover, I knew that the negroes who
would have to go with me, as long as they believed I had property in advance, would work up
to it willingly, as they would be the gainers by doing so; whilst, with nothing before them,
they would be always endeavouring to thwart my advance, to save them from a trouble which their
natural laziness would prompt them to escape from.

This beautiful project, I am sorry to say, was doomed from the first; for I did not get the
£2500 grant of money or appointment to the command until fully nine months had elapsed, when
I wrote to Colonel Rigby, our Consul at Zanzibar, to send on the first instalment of property
towards the interior.

As time then advanced, the Indian branch of the Government very graciously gave me fifty artillery
carbines, with belts and sword-bayonets attached, and 20,000 rounds of ball ammunition. They
lent me as many surveying instruments as I wanted; and, through Sir George Clerk, put at my
disposal some rich presents, in gold watches, for the chief Arabs who had so generously assisted
us in the last expedition. Captain Grant, hearing that I was bound on this journey, being an
old friend and brother sportsman in India, asked me to take him with me, and his appointment
was settled by Colonel Sykes, then chairman of a committee of the Royal Geographical Society,
who said it would only be "a matter of charity" to allow me a companion.

Much at the same time, Mr Petherick, an ivory merchant, who had spent many years on the Nile,
arrived in England, and gratuitously offered, as it would not interfere with his trade, to
place boats at Gondokoro, and send a party of men up the White River to collect ivory in the
meanwhile, and eventually to assist me in coming down. Mr Petherick, I may add, showed great
zeal for geographical exploits, so, as I could not get money enough to do all that I wished
to accomplish myself, I drew out a project for him to ascend the stream now known as the Usua
river (reported to be the larger branch of the Nile), and, if possible, ascertain what connection
it had with my lake. This being agreed to, I did my best, through the medium of Earl de Grey
(then President of the Royal Geographical Society), to advance him money to carry out this
desirable object.

The last difficulty I had now before me was to obtain a passage to Zanzibar. The Indian Government
had promised me a vessel of war to convey me from Aden to Zanzibar, provided it did not interfere
with the public interests. This doubtful proviso induced me to apply to Captain Playfair, Assistant-Political
at Aden, to know what Government vessel would be available; and should there be none, to get
for me a passage by some American trader. The China war, he assured me, had taken up all the
Government vessels, and there appeared no hope left for me that season, as the last American
trader was just then leaving for Zanzibar. In this dilemma it appeared that I must inevitably
lose the travelling season, and come in for the droughts and famines. The tide, however, turned
in my favour a little; for I obtained, by permission of the Admiralty, a passage in the British
screw steam-frigate Forte, under orders to convey Admiral Sir H. Keppel to his command at the
Cape; and Sir Charles Wood most obligingly made a request that I should be forwarded thence
to Zanzibar in one of our slaver-hunting cruisers by the earliest opportunity.

On the 27th April, Captain Grant and I embarked on board the new steam-frigate Forte, commanded
by Captain E. W. Turnour, at Portsmouth; and after a long voyage, touching at Madeira and Rio
de Janeiro, we arrived at the Cape of Good Hope on the 4th July. Here Sir George Grey, the
Governor of the colony, who took a warm and enlightened interest in the cause of the expedition,
invited both Grant and myself to reside at his house. Sir George had been an old explorer himself--was
once wounded by savages in Australia, much in the same manner as I had been in the Somali country--and,
with a spirit of sympathy, he called me his son, and said he hoped I would succeed. Then, thinking
how best he could serve me, he induced the Cape Parliament to advance to the expedition a sum
of £300, for the purpose of buying baggage-mules; and induced Lieut.-General Wynyard, the Commander-in-Chief,
to detach ten volunteers from the Cape Mounted Rifle Corps to accompany me. When this addition
was made to my force, of twelve mules and ten Hottentots, the Admiral of the station placed
the screw steam-corvette Brisk at my disposal, and we all sailed for Zanzibar on the 16th July,
under the command of Captain A. F. de Horsey--the Admiral himself accompanying us, on one of
his annual inspections to visit the east coast of Africa and the Mauritius. In five days more
we touched at East London, and, thence proceeding north, made a short stay at Delagoa Bay,
where I first became acquainted with the Zulu Kafirs, a naked set of negroes, whose national
costume principally consists in having their hair trussed up like a hoop on the top of the
head, and an appendage like a thimble, to which they attach a mysterious importance. They wear
additional ornaments, charms, &c., of birds' claws, hoofs and horns of wild animals tied on
with strings, and sometimes an article like a kilt, made of loose strips of skin, or the entire
skins of vermin strung close together. These things I have merely noticed in passing, because
I shall hereafter have occasion to allude to a migratory people, the Watuta, who dressing much
in the same manner, extend from Lake N'yassa to Uzinza, and may originally have been a part
of this same Kafir race, who are themselves supposed to have migrated from the regions at present
occupied by the Gallas. Next day (the 28th) we went on to Europa, a small island of coralline,
covered with salsolacious shrubs, and tenanted only by sea-birds, owls, finches, rats, and
turtles. Of the last we succeeded in turning three, the average weight of each being 360 lb.,
and we took large numbers of their eggs.

We then went to Mozambique, and visited the Portuguese Governor, John Travers de Almeida, who
showed considerable interest in the prospects of the expedition, and regretted that, as it
cost so much money to visit the interior from that place, his officers were unable to go there.
One experimental trip only had been accomplished by Mr Soares, who was forced to pay the Makua
chiefs 120 dollars footing, to reach a small hill in view of the sea, about twenty-five miles off.

Leaving Mozambique on the 9th August, bound for Johanna, we came the next day, at 11.30 A.M.,
in sight of a slaver, ship-rigged, bearing on us full sail, but so distant from us that her
mast-tops were only just visible. As quick as ourselves, she saw who we were and tried to escape
by retreating. This manoeuvre left no doubt what she was, and the Brisk, all full of excitement,
gave chase at full speed, and in four hours more drew abreast of her. A great commotion ensued
on board the slaver. The sea-pirates threw overboard their colours, bags, and numerous boxes,
but would not heave-to, although repeatedly challenged, until a gun was fired across her bows.
Our boats were then lowered, and in a few minutes more the "prize" was taken, by her crew being
exchanged for some of our men, and we learnt all about her from accurate reports furnished
by Mr Frere, the Cape Slave Commissioner. Cleared from Havannah as "the Sunny South," professing
to be destined for Hong-Kong, she changed her name to the Manuela, and came slave-hunting in
these regions. The slaver's crew consisted of a captain, doctor, and several sailors, mostly
Spaniards. The vessel was well stored with provisions and medicines; but there was scarcely
enough room in her, though she was said to be only half freighted, for the 544 creatures they
were transporting. The next morning, as we entered Pamoni harbour by an intricate approach
to the rich little island hill Johanna, the slaver, as she followed us, stranded, and for a
while caused considerable alarm to everybody but her late captain. He thought his luck very
bad, after escaping so often, to be taken thus; for his vessel's power of sailing were so good,
that, had she had the wind in her favour, the Brisk, even with the assistance of steam, could
not have come up with her. On going on board her, I found the slaves to be mostly Wahiyow.
A few of them were old women, but all the rest children. They had been captured during wars
in their own country, and sold to Arabs, who brought them to the coast, and kept them half-starved
until the slaver arrived, when they were shipped in dhows and brought off to the slaver, where,
for nearly a week, whilst the bargains were in progress, they were kept entirely without food.
It was no wonder then, every man of the Brisk who first looked upon them did so with a feeling
of loathing and abhorrence of such a trade. All over the vessel, but more especially below,
old women, stark naked, were dying in the most disgusting "ferret-box" atmosphere; while all
those who had sufficient strength were pulling up the hatches, and tearing at the salt fish
they found below, like dogs in a kennel.

On the 15th the Manuela was sent to the Mauritius, and we, after passing the Comoro Islands,
arrived at our destination, Zanzibar--called Lunguja by the aborigines, the Wakhadim--and Unguja
by the present Wasuahili.

On the 17th, after the anchor was cast, without a moment's delay I went off to the British
Consulate to see my old friend Colonel Rigby. He was delighted to see us; and, in anticipation
of our arrival, had prepared rooms for our reception, that both Captain Grant and myself might
enjoy his hospitality until arrangements could be made for our final start into the interior.
The town, which I had left in so different a condition sixteen months before, was in a state
of great tranquillity, brought about by the energy of the Bombay Government on the Muscat side,
and Colonel Rigby's exertions on this side, in preventing an insurrection Sultan Majid's brothers
had created with a view of usurping his government.

The news of the place was as follows:--In addition to the formerly constituted consulates--English,
French, and American--a fourth one, representing Hamburg, had been created. Dr Roscher, who
during my absence had made a successful journey to the N'yinyezi N'yassa, or Star Lake, was
afterwards murdered by some natives in Uhiyow; and Lieutentant-Colonel Baron van der Decken,
another enterprising German, was organising an expedition with a view to search for the relics
of his countryman, and, if possible, complete the project poor Roscher had commenced.

Slavery had received a severe blow by the sharp measures Colonel Rigby had taken in giving
tickets of emancipation to all those slaves whom our Indian subjects the Banyans had been secretly
keeping, and by fining the masters and giving the money to the men to set them up in life.
The interior of the continent had been greatly disturbed, owing to constant war between the
natives and Arab ivory merchants. Mguru Mfupi (or Short-legs), the chief of Khoko in Ugogo,
for instance, had been shot, and Manua Sera (the Tippler), who succeeded the old Sultan Fundi
Kira, of Unyanyembe, on his death, shortly after the late expedition left Kaze, was out in
the field fighting the Arabs. Recent letters from the Arabs in the interior, however, gave
hopes of peace being shortly restored. Finally, in compliance with my request--and this was
the most important item of news to myself--Colonel Rigby had sent on, thirteen days previously,
fifty-six loads of cloth and beads, in charge of two of Ramji's men, consigned to Musa at Kaze.

To call on the Sultan, of course, was our first duty. He received us in his usually affable
manner; made many trite remarks concerning our plans; was surprised, if my only object in view
was to see the great river running out of the lake, that I did not go by the more direct route
across the Masai country and Usoga; and then, finding I wished to see Karague, as well as to
settle many other great points of interest, he offered to assist me with all the means in his
power.

The Hottentots, the mules, and the baggage having been landed, our preparatory work began in
earnest. It consisted in proving the sextants; rating the watches; examining the compasses
and boiling thermometers; making tents and packsaddles; ordering supplies of beads, cloth,
and brass wire; and collecting servants and porters.

Sheikh Said bin Salem, our late Cafila Bashi, or caravan captain, was appointed to that post
again, as he wished to prove his character for honour and honesty; and it now transpired that
he had been ordered not to go with me when I discovered the Victoria N'yanza. Bombay and his
brother Mabruki were bound to me of old, and the first to greet me on my arrival here; while
my old friends the Beluchs begged me to take them again. The Hottentots, however, had usurped
their place. I was afterwards sorry for this, though, if I ever travel again, I shall trust
to none but natives, as the climate of Africa is too trying to foreigners. Colonel Rigby, who
had at heart as much as anybody the success of the expedition, materially assisted me in accomplishing
my object--that men accustomed to discipline and a knowledge of English honour and honesty
should be enlisted, to give confidence to the rest of the men; and he allowed me to select
from his boat's crew any men I could find who had served as men-of-war, and had seen active
service in India.

For this purpose my factotum, Bombay, prevailed on Baraka, Frij, and Rahan--all of them old
sailors, who, like himself, knew Hindustani--to go with me. With this nucleus to start with,
I gave orders that they should look out for as many Wanguana (freed men--i.e., men emancipated
from slavery) as they could enlist, to carry loads, or do any other work required of them,
and to follow men in Africa wherever I wished, until our arrival in Egypt, when I would send
them back to Zanzibar. Each was to receive one year's pay in advance, and the remainder when
their work was completed.

While this enlistment was going on here, Ladha Damji, the customs' master, was appointed to
collect a hundred pagazis (Wanyamuezi porters) to carry each a load of cloth, beads, or brass
wire to Kaze, as they do for the ivory merchants. Meanwhile, at the invitation of the Admiral,
and to show him some sport in hippopotamus-shooting, I went with him in a dhow over to Kusiki,
near which there is a tidal lagoon, which at high tide is filled with water, but at low water
exposes sand islets covered with mangrove shrub. In these islets we sought for the animals,
knowing they were keen to lie wallowing in the mire, and we bagged two. On my return to Zanzibar,
the Brisk sailed for the Mauritius, but fortune sent Grant and myself on a different cruise.
Sultan Majid, having heard that a slaver was lying at Pangani, and being anxious to show his
good faith with the English, begged me to take command of one his vessels of war and run it
down. Accordingly, embarking at noon, as soon as the vessel could be got ready, we lay-to that
night at Tombat, with a view of surprising the slaver next morning; but next day, on our arrival
at Pangani, we heard that she had merely put in to provision there three days before, and had
let immediately afterwards. As I had come so far, I thought we might go ashore and look at
the town, which was found greatly improved since I last saw it, by the addition of several
coralline houses and a dockyard. The natives were building a dhow with Lindi and Madagascar
timber. On going ashore, I might add, we were stranded on the sands, and, coming off again,
nearly swamped by the increasing surf on the bar of the river; but this was a trifle; all we
thought of was to return to Zanzibar, and hurry on our preparations there. This, however, was
not so easy: the sea current was running north, and the wind was too light to propel our vessel
against it; so, after trying in vain to make way in her, Grant and I, leaving her to follow,
took to a boat, after giving the captain, who said we would get drowned, a letter, to say we
left the vessel against his advice.

We had a brave crew of young negroes to pull us; but, pull as they would, the current was so
strong that we feared, if we persisted, we should be drawn into the broad Indian Ocean; so,
changing our line, we bore into the little coralline island, Maziwa, where, after riding over
some ugly coral surfs, we put in for the night. There we found, to our relief, some fisherman,
who gave us fish for our dinner, and directions how to proceed.

Next morning, before daylight, we trusted to the boat and our good luck. After passing, without
landmarks to guide us, by an intricate channel, through foaming surfs, we arrived at Zanzibar
in the night, and found that the vessel had got in before us.

Colonel Rigby now gave me a most interesting paper, with a map attached to it, about the Nile
and the Mountains of the Moon. It was written by Lieutenant Wilford, from the "Purans" of the
Ancient Hindus. As it exemplifies, to a certain extent, the supposition I formerly arrived
at concerning the Mountains of the Moon being associated with the country of the Moon, I would
fain draw the attention of the reader of my travels to the volume of the "Asiatic Researches"
in which it was published. [5] It is remarkable that the Hindus have christened the source
of the Nile Amara, which is the name of a country at the north-east corner of the Victoria
N'yanza. This, I think, shows clearly, that the ancient Hindus must have had some kind of communication
with both the northern and southern ends of the Victoria N'yanza.

Having gone to work again, I found that Sheikh Said had brought ten men, four of whom were
purchased for one hundred dollars, which I had to pay; Bombay, Baraka, Frij, and Rahan had
brought twenty-six more, all freed men; while the Sultan Majid, at the suggestion of Colonel
Rigby, gave me thirty-four men more, who were all raw labourers taken from his gardens. It
was my intention to have taken one hundred of this description of men throughout the whole
journey; but as so many could not be found in Zanzibar, I still hoped to fill up the complement
in Unyamuezi, the land of the Moon, from the large establishments of the Arab merchants residing
there. The payment of these men's wages for the first year, as well as the terms of the agreement
made with them, by the kind consent of Colonel Rigby were now entered in the Consular Office
books, as a security to both parties, and a precaution against disputes on the way. Any one
who saw the grateful avidity with which they took the money, and the warmth with which they
pledged themselves to serve me faithfully through all dangers and difficulties, would, had
he had no dealings with such men before, have thought that I had a first-rate set of followers.
I lastly gave Sheikh Said a double-barrelled rifle by Blissett, and distributed fifty carbines
among the seniors of the expedition, with the condition that they would forfeit them to others
more worthy if they did not behave well, but would retain possession of them for ever if they
carried them through the journey to my satisfaction.

On the 21st, as everything was ready on the island, I sent Sheikh Said and all the men, along
with the Hottentots, mules, and baggage, off in dhows to Bagamoyo, on the opposite mainland.
Colonel Rigby, with Captain Grant and myself, then called on the Sultan, to bid him adieu,
when he graciously offered me, as a guard of honour to escort me through Uzaramo, one jemadar
and twenty-five Beluch soldiers. These I accepted, more as a government security in that country
against the tricks of the natives, than for any accession they made to our strength. His highness
then places his 22-gun corvette, "Secundra Shah," at our disposal, and we went all three over
to Bagamoyo, arriving on the 25th. Immediately on landing, Ladha and Sheikh Said showed us
into a hut prepared for us, and all things looked pretty well. Ladha's hundred loads of beads,
cloths, and brass wire were all tied up for the march, and seventy-five pagazis (porters from
the Moon country) had received their hire to carry these loads to Kaze in the land of the Moon.
Competition, I found, had raised these men's wages, for I had to pay, to go even as far as
Kaze, nine and a quarter dollars a-head!--as Masudi and some other merchants were bound on
the same line as myself, and all were equally in a hurry to be off and avoid as much as possible
the famine we knew we should have to fight through at this late season. Little troubles, of
course, must always be expected, else these blacks would not be true negroes. Sheikh Said now
reported it quite impossible to buy anything at a moderate rate; for, as I was a "big man,"
I ought to "pay a big price;" and my men had all been obliged to fight in the bazaar before
they could get even tobacco at the same rate as other men, because they were the servants of
the big man, who could afford to give higher wages than any one else. The Hottentots, too,
began to fall sick, which my Wanguana laughingly attributed to want of grog to keep their spirits
up, as these little creatures, the "Tots," had frequently at Zanzibar, after heavy potations,
boasted to the more sober free men, that they "were strong, because they could stand plenty
drink." The first step now taken was to pitch camp under large shady mango-trees, and to instruct
every man in his particular duty. At the same time, the Wanguana, who had carbines, were obliged
to be drilled in their use and formed into companies, with captains of ten, headed by General
Baraka, who was made commander-in-chief.

On the 30th September, as things were looking more orderly, I sent forward half of the property,
and all the men I had then collected, to Ugeni, a shamba, or garden, two miles off; and on
the 2nd October, after settling with Ladha for my "African money," as my pagazis were completed
to a hundred and one, we wished Rigby adieu, and all assembled together at Ugeni, which resembles
the richest parts of Bengal.

Chapter II. Uzaramo

The Nature of the Country--The Order of March--The Beginning of our Taxation--Sultan Lion's
Claw, and Sultan Monkey's Tail--The Kingani--Jealousies and Difficulties in the Camp--The Murderer
of M. Maizan.

We were now in U-za-Ramo, which may mean the country of Ramo, though I have never found any
natives who could enlighten me on the derivation of this obviously triple word. The extent
of the country, roughly speaking, stretches from the coast to the junction or bifurcation of
the Kingani and its upper branch the Mgeta river, westwards; and from the Kingani, north, to
the Lufigi river, south; though in the southern portions several subtribes have encroached
upon the lands. There are no hills in Uzaramo; but the land in the central line, formed like
a ridge between the two rivers, furrow fashion, consists of slightly elevated flats and terraces,
which, in the rainy season, throw off their surplus waters to the north and south by nullahs
into these rivers. The country is uniformly well covered with trees and large grasses, which,
in the rainy season, are too thick, tall, and green to be pleasant; though in the dry season,
after the grasses have been burnt, it is agreeable enough, though not pretty, owing to the
flatness of the land. The villages are not large or numerous, but widely spread, consisting
generally of conical grass huts, while others are gable-ended, after the coast-fashion--a small
collection of ten or twenty comprising one village. Over these villages certain headmen, titled
Phanze, hold jurisdiction, who take black-mail from travellers with high presumption when they
can. Generally speaking, they live upon the coast, and call themselves Diwans, headsmen, and
subjects of the Sultan Majid; but they no sooner hear of the march of a caravan than they transpose
their position, become sultans in their own right, and levy taxes accordingly.

The Wazaramo are strictly agriculturists; they have no cows, and but few goats. They are of
low stature and thick set and their nature tends to the boisterous. Expert slavehunters, they
mostly clothe themselves by the sale of their victims on the coast, though they do business
by the sale of goats and grain as well. Nowhere in the interior are natives so well clad as
these creatures. In dressing up their hair, and otherwise smearing their bodies with ochreish
clay, they are great dandies. They always keep their bows and arrows, which form their national
arm, in excellent order, the latter well poisoned, and carried in quivers nicely carved. To
intimidate a caravan and extort a hongo or tax, I have seen them drawn out in line as if prepared
for battle; but a few soft words were found sufficient to make them all withdraw and settle
the matter at issue by arbitration in some appointed place. A few men without property can
cross their lands fearlessly, though a single individual with property would stand no chance,
for they are insatiable thieves. But little is seen of these people on the journey, as the
chiefs take their taxes by deputy, partly out of pride, and partly because they think they
can extort more by keeping in the mysterious distance. At the same time, the caravan prefers
camping in the jungles beyond the villages to mingling with the inhabitants, where rows might
be engendered. We sometimes noticed Albinos, with greyish-blue eyes and light straw-coloured
hair. Not unfrequently we would pass on the track side small heaps of white ashes, with a calcined
bone or two among them. These, we were told, were the relics of burnt witches. The caravan
track we had now to travel on leads along the right bank of the Kingani valley, overlooking
Uzegura, which, corresponding with Uzaramo, only on the other side of the Kigani, extends northwards
to the Pangani river, and is intersected in the centre by the Wami river, of which more hereafter.

