And indeed, one may well ask, for what reason should wealth be regarded as a matter for serious
pursuit (1) in a community where, partly by a system of equal contributions to the necessaries
of life, and partly by the maintenance of a common standard of living, the lawgiver placed
so effectual a check upon the desire of riches for the sake of luxury? What inducement, for
instance, would there be to make money, even for the sake of wearing apparel, in a state where
personal adornment is held to lie not in the costliness of the clothes they wear, but in the
healthy condition of the body to be clothed? Nor again could there be much inducement to amass
wealth, in order to be able to expend it on the members of a common mess, where the legislator
had made it seem far more glorious that a man should help his fellows by the labour of his
body than by costly outlay. The latter being, as he finely phrased it, the function of wealth,
the former an activity of the soul.

 (1) See Plut. "Lycurg." 10 (Clough, i. 96).

He went a step further, and set up a strong barrier (even in a society such as I have described)
against the pursuance of money-making by wrongful means. (2) In the first place, he established
a coinage (3) of so extraordinary a sort, that even a single sum of ten minas (4) could not
come into a house without attracting the notice, either of the master himself, or of some member
of his household. In fact, it would occupy a considerable space, and need a waggon to carry
it. Gold and silver themselves, moreover, are liable to search, (5) and in case of detection,
the possessor subjected to a penalty. In fact, to repeat the question asked above, for what
reason should money-making become an earnest pursuit in a community where the possession of
wealth entails more pain than its employment brings satisfaction?

 (2) Or, "against illegitimate commerce."

 (3) See Plut. "Lycurg." 9 (Clough, i. 94).

 (4) = 40 pounds, circa.

 (5) See Grote, "H. G." ix. 320; Aristot. "Pol." ii. 9, 37.

VIII

But to proceed. We are all aware that there is no state (1) in the world in which greater obedience
is shown to magistrates, and to the laws themselves, than Sparta. But, for my part, I am disposed
to think that Lycurgus could never have attempted to establish this healthy condition, (2)
until he had first secured the unanimity of the most powerful members of the state. I infer
this for the following reasons. (3) In other states the leaders in rank and influence do not
even desire to be thought to fear the magistrates. Such a thing they would regard as in itself
a symbol of servility. In Sparta, on the contrary, the stronger a man is the more readily does
he bow before constituted authority. And indeed, they magnify themselves on their humility,
and on a prompt obedience, running, or at any rate not crawling with laggard step, at the word
of command. Such an example of eager discipline, they are persuaded, set by themselves, will
not fail to be followed by the rest. And this is precisely what has taken place. It (4) is
reasonable to suppose that it was these same noblest members of the state who combined (5)
to lay the foundation of the ephorate, after they had come to the conclusion themselves, that
of all the blessings which a state, or an army, or a household, can enjoy, obedience is the
greatest. Since, as they could not but reason, the greater the power with which men fence about
authority, the greater the fascination it will exercise upon the mind of the citizen, to the
enforcement of obedience.

 (1) See Grote, "H. G." v. 516; "Mem." III. v. 18.

 (2) Or, reading after L. Dindorf, {eutaxian}, "this world-renowned
    orderliness."

 (3) Or, "from these facts."

 (4) Or, "It was only natural that these same..."

 (5) Or, "helped." See Aristot. "Pol." v. 11, 3; ii. 9, 1 (Jowett, ii.
    224); Plut. "Lycurg." 7, 29; Herod. i. 65; Muller, "Dorians," iii.
    7, 5 (vol. ii. p. 125, Eng. tr.)

Accordingly the ephors are competent to punish whomsoever they choose; they have power to exact
fines on the spur of the moment; they have power to depose magistrates in mid career (6)--nay,
actually to imprison them and bring them to trial on the capital charge. Entrusted with these
vast powers, they do not, as do the rest of states, allow the magistrates elected to exercise
authority as they like, right through the year of office; but, in the style rather of despotic
monarchs, or presidents of the games, at the first symptom of an offence against the law they
inflict chastisement without warning and without hesitation.

 (6) Or, "before the expiration of their term of office." See Plut.
    "Agis," 18 (Clough, iv. 464); Cic. "de Leg." iii. 7; "de Rep." ii.
    33.

But of all the many beautiful contrivances invented by Lycurgus to kindle a willing obedience
to the laws in the hearts of the citizens, none, to my mind, was happier or more excellent
than his unwillingness to deliver his code to the people at large, until, attended by the most
powerful members of the state, he had betaken himself to Delphi, (7) and there made inquiry
of the god whether it were better for Sparta, and conducive to her interests, to obey the laws
which he had framed. And not until the divine answer came: "Better will it be in every way,"
did he deliver them, laying it down as a last ordinance that to refuse obedience to a code
which had the sanction of the Pythian god himself (8) was a thing not illegal only, but profane.

 (7) See Plut. "Lycurg." 5, 6, 29 (Clough, i. 89, 122); Polyb. x. 2, 9.

 (8) Or, "a code delivered in Pytho, spoken by the god himself."

IX

The following too may well excite our admiration for Lycurgus. I speak of the consummate skill
with which he induced the whole state of Sparta to regard an honourable death as preferable
to an ignoble life. And indeed if any one will investigate the matter, he will find that by
comparison with those who make it a principle to retreat in face of danger, actually fewer
of these Spartans die in battle, since, to speak truth, salvation, it would seem, attends on
virtue far more frequently than on cowardice--virtue, which is at once easier and sweeter,
richer in resource and stronger of arm, (1) than her opposite. And that virtue has another
familiar attendant--to wit, glory--needs no showing, since the whole world would fain ally
themselves after some sort in battle with the good.

 (1) See Homer, "Il." v. 532; Tyrtaeus, 11, 14, {tressanton d' andron
    pas' apolol arete}.

Yet the actual means by which he gave currency to these principles is a point which it were
well not to overlook. It is clear that the lawgiver set himself deliberately to provide all
the blessings of heaven for the good man, and a sorry and ill-starred existence for the coward.

In other states the man who shows himself base and cowardly wins to himself an evil reputation
and the nickname of a coward, but that is all. For the rest he buys and sells in the same market-place
as the good man; he sits beside him at play; he exercises with him in the same gymnasium, and
all as suits his humour. But at Lacedaemon there is not one man who would not feel ashamed
to welcome the coward at the common mess-tabe, or to try conclusions with such an antagonist
in a wrestling bout. Consider the day's round of his existence. The sides are being picked
up in a football match, (2) but he is left out as the odd man: there is no place for him. During
the choric dance (3) he is driven away into ignominious quarters. Nay, in the very streets
it is he who must step aside for others to pass, or, being seated, he must rise and make room,
even for a younger man. At home he will have his maiden relatives to support in isolation (and
they will hold him to blame for their unwedded lives). (4) A hearth with no wife to bless it--that
is a condition he must face, (5) and yet he will have to pay damages to the last farthing for
incurring it. Let him not roam abroad with a smooth and smiling countenance; (6) let him not
imitate men whose fame is irreproachable, or he shall feel on his back the blows of his superiors.
Such being the weight of infamy which is laid upon all cowards, I, for my part, am not surprised
if in Sparta they deem death preferable to a life so steeped in dishonour and reproach.

 (2) See Lucian, "Anacharsis," 38; Muller, "Dorians," (vol. ii. 309,
    Eng. tr.)

 (3) The {khoroi}, e.g. of the Gymnopaedia. See Muller, op. cit. iv. 6,
    4 (vol. ii. 334, Eng. tr.)

 (4) {tes anandrias}, cf. Plut. "Ages." 30; or, {tes anandreias}, "they
    must bear the reproach of his cowardice."

 (5) Omitting {ou}, or translate, "that is an evil not to be
    disregarded." See Dindorf, ad loc.; Sturz, "Lex. Xen." {Estia}.

 (6) See Plut. "Ages." 30 (Clough, iv. 36); "Hell." VI. iv. 16.

X

That too was a happy enactment, in my opinion, by which Lycurgus provided for the continual
cultivation of virtue, even to old age. By fixing (1) the election to the council of elders
(2) as a last ordeal at the goal of life, he made it impossible for a high standard of virtuous
living to be disregarded even in old age. (So, too, it is worthy of admiration in him that
he lent his helping hand to virtuous old age. (3) Thus, by making the elders sole arbiters
in the trial for life, he contrived to charge old age with a greater weight of honour than
that which is accorded to the strength of mature manhood.) And assuredly such a contest as
this must appeal to the zeal of mortal man beyond all others in a supreme degree. Fair, doubtless,
are contests of gymnastic skill, yet are they but trials of bodily excellence, but this contest
for the seniority is of a higher sort--it is an ordeal of the soul itself. In proportion, therefore,
as the soul is worthier than the body, so must these contests of the soul appeal to a stronger
enthusiasm than their bodily antitypes.

 (1) Reading {protheis}. See Plut. "Lycurg." 26 (Clough. i. 118);
    Aristot. "Pol." ii. 9, 25.

 (2) Or, "seniory," or "senate," or "board of elders"; lit. "the
    Gerontia."

 (3) Or, "the old age of the good. Yet this he did when he made...
    since he contrived," etc.

And yet another point may well excite our admiration for Lycurgus largely. It had not escaped
his observation that communities exist where those who are willing to make virtue their study
and delight fail somehow in ability to add to the glory of their fatherland. (4) That lesson
the legislator laid to heart, and in Sparta he enforced, as a matter of public duty, the practice
of virtue by every citizen. And so it is that, just as man differs from man in some excellence,
according as he cultivates or neglects to cultivate it, this city of Sparta, with good reason,
outshines all other states in virtue; since she, and she alone, as made the attainment of a
high standard of noble living a public duty.

 (4) Is this an autobiographical touch?

And was this not a noble enactment, that whereas other states are content to inflict punishment
only in cases where a man does wrong against his neighbour, Lycurgus imposed penalties no less
severe on him who openly neglected to make himself as good as possible? For this, it seems,
was his principle: in the one case, where a man is robbed, or defrauded, or kidnapped, and
made a slave of, the injury of the misdeed, whatever it be, is personal to the individual so
maltreated; but in the other case whole communities suffer foul treason at the hands of the
base man and the coward. So that it was only reasonable, in my opinion, that he should visit
the heaviest penalty upon these latter.

Moreover, he laid upon them, like some irresistible necessity, the obligation to cultivate
the whole virtue of a citizen. Provided they duly performed the injunctions of the law, the
city belonged to them, each and all, in absolute possession and on an equal footing. Weakness
of limb or want of wealth (5) was no drawback in his eyes. But as for him who, out of the cowardice
of his heart, shrank from the painful performance of the law's injunction, the finger of the
legislator pointed him out as there and then disqualified to be regarded longer as a member
of the brotherhood of peers. (6)

 (5) But see Aristot. "Pol." ii. 9, 32.

 (6) Grote, "H. G." viii. 81; "Hell." III. iii. 5.

It may be added, that there was no doubt as to the great antiquity of this code of laws. The
point is clear so far, that Lycurgus himself is said to have lived in the days of the Heraclidae.
(7) But being of so long standing, these laws, even at this day, still are stamped in the eyes
of other men with all the novelty of youth. And the most marvellous thing of all is that, while
everybody is agreed to praise these remarkable institutions, there is not a single state which
cares to imitate them.

 (7) See Plut. "Lycurg." 1.

XI

The above form a common stock of blessings, open to every Spartan to enjoy, alike in peace
and in war. But if any one desires to be informed in what way the legislator improved upon
the ordinary machinery of warfare and in reference to an army in the field, it is easy to satisfy
his curiosity.

In the first instance, the ephors announce by proclamation the limit of age to which the service
applies (1) for cavalry and heavy infantry; and in the next place, for the various handicraftsmen.
So that, even on active service, the Lacedaemonians are well supplied with all the conveniences
enjoyed by people living as citizens at home. (2) All implements and instruments whatsoever,
which an army may need in common, are ordered to be in readiness, (3) some on waggons and others
on baggage animals. In this way anything omitted can hardly escape detection.

 (1) I.e. "in the particular case." See "Hell." VI. iv. 17; Muller,
    "Dorians," iii. 12 (vol. ii. 242 foll., Eng. tr.)

 (2) Or, "the conveniences of civil life at home."

 (3) Reading {parekhein}, or if {paragein}, "to be conveyed." Cf.
    Pausan. I. xix. 1. See "Cyrop." VI. ii. 34.

For the actual encounter under arms, the following inventions are attributed to him. The soldier
has a crimson-coloured uniform and a heavy shield of bronze; his theory being that such an
equipment has no sort of feminine association, and is altogether most warrior-like. (4) It
is most quickly burnished; it is least readily soiled. (5)

 (4) Cf. Aristoph. "Acharn." 320, and the note of the scholiast.

 (5) See Ps. Plut. "Moral." 238 F.

He further permitted those who were above the age of early manhood to wear their hair long.
(6) For so, he conceived, they would appear of larger stature, more free and indomitable, and
of a more terrible aspect.

 (6) See Plut. "Lycurg." 22 (Clough, i. 114).

So furnished and accoutred, he divided his citizen soldiers into six morai (7) (or regimental
divisions) of cavalry (8) and heavy infantry. Each of these citizen regiments (political divisions)
has one polemarch (9) (or colonel), four lochagoi (or captains of companies), eight penteconters
(or lieutenants, each in command of half a company), and sixteen enomotarchs (or commanders
of sections). At the word of command any such regimental division can be formed readily either
into enomoties (i.e. single file) or into threes (i.e. three files abreast), or into sixes
(i.e. six files abreast). (10)

 (7) The {mora}. Jowett, "Thuc." ii. 320, note to Thuc. v. 68, 3.

 (8) See Plut. "Lycurg." 23 (Clough, i. 115); "Hell." VI. iv. 11; Thuc.
    v. 67; Paus. IV. viii. 12.

 (9) See Thuc. v. 66, 71.

