    "Not so, my lord," said I, "for I am at a full point with myself in
    that matter; and am right well able to prove both your
    transubstantiation with the real presence to be against the Scriptures
    and the ancient Fathers of the primitive Church."--Id., p. 587.

    "Winchester. No, surely, I am fully determined, and fully at a
    point therein, howsoever my brethren do."--Id., p. 691.

    "Brad. Sir, so that you will define me your church, that under it you
    bring not in a false church, you shall not see but that we shall soon
    be at a point."--Id., vol. vii. p. 190.

    "Latimer. Truly, my lord, as for my part I require no respite, for I
    am at a point. You shall give me respite in vain; therefore, I pray
    you let me not trouble you to-morrow."--Id., p. 534.

    "Unto whom he (Lord Cobham) gave this answer: 'Do as ye shall think
    best, for I am at a point.' Whatsoever he (Archbishop Arundel) or the
    other bishops did ask him after that, he bade them resort to his bill:
    for thereby would he stand to the very death."--Id., vol. iii. pp.
    327-8.

    "'Et illa et ista vera esse credantur et nulla inter nos contentio
    remanebit, quia nec illis veris ista, nec istis veris illa
    impediuntur.' Let bothe those truthes and these truthes be beleued, and
    we shall be at appoinct. For neither these truthes are impaired by
    the other, neither the other by these."--A Fortresse of the Faith, p.
    50., by Thomas Stapleton: Antwerp, 1565.

    "A poore man that shall haue liued at home in the countrie, and neuer
    tasted of honoure and pompe, is alwayes at a poynt with himselfe,
    when menne scorne and disdayne him, or shewe any token of contempt
    towardes his person."--John Calvin's CVIII. Sermon on the Thirtieth
    Chap. of Job, p. 554., translated by Golding: London, 1574.

    "As for peace, I am at a point."--Leycester Correspondence, Camd.
    Soc., p. 261.

W. R. ARROWSMITH.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Weather Rules.--The interesting article on "The Shepherd of Banbury's Weather Rules" (Vol.
vii., p. 373.) has reminded me of two sayings I heard in Worcestershire a few months back,
and upon which my informant placed the greatest reliance. The first is, "If the moon changes
on a Sunday, there will be a flood before the month is out." My authority asserted that through
a number of years he has never known this fail. The month in which the change on a Sunday has
occurred has been fine until the last day, when the flood came. The other saying is, "Look
at the weathercock on St. Thomas's day at twelve o'clock, and see which way the wind is, and
there it will stick for the next quarter," that is, three months. Can any of your readers confirm
the above, and add any similar "weather rules?"

J. A., JUN.

Birmingham.

Drills presaging Death (Vol. vii., p. 353.).--Your correspondent asks if the superstition he
here alludes to in Norfolk is believed in other parts. I can give him a case in point in Berkshire:--Some
twenty years ago an old gentleman died there, a near relative of my own; and on going down
to his place, I was told by a farm overseer of his, that he was certain some of his lordship's
family would die that season, as, in the last sowing, he had missed putting the seed in one
row, which he showed me! "Who could disbelieve it now?" quoth the old man. I was then taken
to the bee-hives, and at the door of every one this man knocked with his knuckles, and informed
the occupants that they must now work for a new master, as their old one was gone to heaven.
This, I believe, has been queried in your invaluable paper some time since. I only send it
by the way. I know the same superstition is still extant in Cheshire, North Wales, and in some
parts of Scotland.

T. W. N.

Malta.

A friend supplies me with the information that before drills were invented, the labourers {523}
considered it unlucky to miss a "bout" in corn or seed sowing, will sometimes happened when
"broadcast" was the only method. The ill-luck did not relate alone to a death in the family
of the farmer or his dependents, but to losses of cattle or accidents. It is singular, however,
that the superstition should have transferred itself to the drill; but it will be satisfactory
to E. G. R. to learn that the process of tradition and superstition-manufacturing is not going
on in the nineteenth century.

E. S. TAYLOR.

Superstition in Devonshire; Valentine's Day (Vol. v., pp. 55. 148.).--This, according to Forby,
vol. ii. p. 403., once formed in Norfolk a part of the superstitious practices on St. Mark's
Eve, not St. Valentine's, as mentioned by J. S. A., when the sheeted ghosts of those who should
die that year (Mrs. Crowe would call them, I suppose, Doppelgängers) march in grisly array
to the parish church.

The rhyme varies from J. S. A.'s:--

 "Hempseed I sow:
  Hempseed grow;
  He that is my true love
  Come after me, and mow."

and the Norfolk spectre is seen with a scythe, instead of a rake like his Devonshire compeer.

E. S. TAYLOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NOTE ON GULLIVER'S TRAVELS.

If I may argue from the silence of the latest edition of Gulliver's Travels, with Notes, with
which I am acquainted, viz. that by W. C. Taylor, LL.D., Trinity College, Dublin, the Preface
to which is dated May 1st, 1840, I may say that all the commentators on Swift--all, at least,
down to that late date--have omitted to refer to a work containing incidents closely resembling
some of those recorded in the "Voyage to Lilliput."

The work to which I allude is a little dramatical composition, the Bambocciata, or puppet-show,
by Martelli, entitled The Sneezing of Hercules. Goldoni, in his Memoirs, has given us the following
account of the manner in which he brought it out on the stage:

    "Count Lantieri was very well satisfied with my father, for he was
    greatly recovered, and almost completely cured: his kindness was also
    extended to me, and to procure amusement for me he caused a
    puppet-show, which was almost abandoned, and which was very rich in
    figures and decorations, to be refitted.

    "I profited by this, and amused the company by giving them a piece of a
    great man, expressly composed for wooden comedians. This was the
    Sneezing of Hercules, by Peter James Martelli, a Bolognese.

          .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .

    "The imagination of the author sent Hercules into the country of the
    pigmies. Those poor little creatures, frightened at the aspect of an
    animated mountain with legs and arms, ran and concealed themselves in
    holes. One day as Hercules had stretched himself out in the open field,
    and was sleeping tranquilly, the timid inhabitants issued out of their
    retreats, and, armed with prickles and rushes, mounted on the monstrous
    man, and covered him from head to foot, like flies when they fall on a
    piece of rotten meat. Hercules waked, and felt something in his nose,
    which made him sneeze; on which, his enemies tumbled down in all
    directions. This ends the piece.

    "There is a plan, a progression, an intrigue, a catastrophe, and
    winding up; the style is good and well-supported; the thoughts and
    sentiments are all proportionate to the size of the personages. The
    verses even are short, and everything indicates pigmies.

    "A gigantic puppet was requisite for Hercules; everything was well
    executed. The entertainment was productive of much pleasure; and I
    could lay a bet, that I am the only person who ever thought of
    executing the Bambocciata of Martelli."--Memoirs of Goldoni,
    translated by John Black, 2 vols., duod. vol. i. chap. 6.

It is certainly not necessary to point out here in what respects the adventures of Hercules,
the animated mountain, and those of Quinbus Flestrin, the man mountain, differ from, or coincide
with, each other, as the only question I wish to raise is, whether a careful analysis of Martelli's
puppet-show ought, or ought not, to have been placed among the notes on Gulliver's Travels.

C. FORBES.

Temple.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.

In reply to J. M. G. of Worcester, who inquires for a MS. volume of English poetry containing
some lines attributed to Shakspeare, and which is described in Thorpe's Catalog of MSS. for
1831, I can supply some particulars which may assist him in the research. The MS., which at
one period had belonged to Joseph Hazlewood, was purchased from Thorpe by the late Lord Viscount
Kingsborough; after whose decease it was sold, in November, 1842, at Charles Sharpe's literary
sale room, Anglesea Street, Dublin. It is No. 574. in the auction catalogue of that part of
his lordship's library which was then brought to auction.

The volume has been noticed by Patrick Fraser Tytler, in his Life of Sir Walter Raleigh, Edinburgh,
1833 (in Appendix B, p. 436., of 2nd edit.), where, citing the passage from Collier, which
is referred to by J. M. G., he asserts that the lines are not Shakspeare's, but Jonson's. But
he does not appear to me to have established his case beyond doubt; as the lines, though found
among Jonson's works, may, notwithstanding, be the production of some other writer: and why
not of Shakspeare, to whom they are ascribed in the MS.? Some verses by Sir J. C. Hobhouse
originally appeared as Lord Byron's: and there are {524} numerous instances, both ancient and
modern, of a similar attribution of works to other than their actual authors.

ARTERUS.

Dublin.

The Island of Prospero.--We cannot assert that Shakspeare, in the Tempest, had any particular
island in view as the scene of his immortal drama, though by some this has been stoutly maintained.
Chalmers prefers one of the Bermudas. The Rev. J. Hunter, in his Disquisition on the Scene,
&c. of the Tempest, endeavours to confer the honour on the Island of Lampedosa. In reference
to this question, a statement of the pseudo-Aristotle is remarkable. In his work "[Greek: peri
thaumasiôn akousmatôn]," he mentions Lipara, one of the Æolian Islands, lying to the north
of Sicily, and nearly in the course of Shakspeare's Neapolitan fleet from Tunis to Naples.
Among the [Greek: polla teratôdê] found there, he tells us:

    "[Greek: Exakouesthai gar tumpanôn kai kumbalôn êchon gelôta te meta
    thorubou kai krotalôn enargôs. legousi de ti teratôdesteron gegonenai
    peri to spêlaion.]"

If we compare this with the aerial music heard by Ferdinand (Tempest, I. 2.), especially as
the orchestra is represented by the genial burin of M. Retsch in the fifth plate of his well-known
sketches (Umrisze), it will appear probable that Shakspeare was acquainted with the Greek writer
either in the original or through a translation. As far as I am aware, this has not been observed
by any of the commentators.--From The Navorscher.

J. M.

Coincident Criticisms.--I shall be obliged if you will allow me through your pages to anticipate
and rebut two charges of plagiarism. When I wrote my Note on a passage in The Winter's Tale
("N. & Q.," Vol. vii., p. 378.), I had not seen the Dublin University Magazine for March last,
containing some remarks on the same passage in some respects much resembling mine. I must also
declare that my Note on a passage in All's Well that ends Well ("N. & Q.," Vol. vii., p. 426.)
was posted for you some time before the appearance of A. E. B.'s Note on the same passage ("N.
& Q.," Vol. vii., p. 403.). The latter coincidence is more remarkable than the former, as the
integrity of the amended text was in both notes discussed by means of the same parallel passage.
Apropos of A. E. B.'s clever Note, permit me to say, that though at first it appeared to me
conclusive, I now incline to think that Shakspeare intended Helen to address the leaden messengers
by means of a very hyperbolic figure: "wound the still-piecing air that sings with piercing"
is a consistent whole. If, as A. E. B. rightly says, to wound the air is an impossibility,
it is equally impossible that the air should utter any sound expressive of sensibility. The
fact of course is, that the cannon-balls cleave the air, and that by so cleaving it a shrill
noise is produced. The cause and effect may, however, be metaphorically described, by comparing
air to Bertram. I believe it is a known fact that every man who is struck with a cannon-ball
cries out instinctively. Shakspeare therefore might, I think, have very poetically described
the action and effect of a cannon-ball passing through the air by the strong figure of wounding
the air that sings with the piercing which it is enduring.

In concluding this Note, I beg to express what is not merely my own, but a very general feeling
of disappointment in respect of MR. COLLIER'S new edition of Shakspeare. To it, with a new
force, may be applied the words of A. E. B. in "N. & Q.," Vol. vi., p. 296.:

    "But the evil of these emendations is not in this instance confined to
    the mere suggestion of doubt; the text has absolutely been altered in
    all accessible editions, in many cases silently, so that the ordinary
    reader has no opportunity of judging between Shakspeare and his
    improvers."

That MR. COLLIER should be the greatest of such offenders, is no very cheering sign of the times.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

Dogberry's Losses (Vol. vii., p. 377.).--I do not know whether it has ever been suggested,
but I feel inclined to read "lawsuits." He has just boasted of himself as "one that knows the
law;" and it seems natural enough that he should go on to brag of being a rich fellow enough,
"and a fellow that hath had lawsuits" of his own, and actually figured as plaintiff or defendant.
Suppose the words taken down from the mouth of an actor, and the mistake would be easy.

JOHN DOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COENACULUM OF LIONARDO DA VINCI.

I have in my possession a manuscript critique on the celebrated picture of The Last Supper
by Lionardo da Vinci, written many years ago by a deceased academician; in which the writer
has called in question the point of time usually supposed to have been selected by the celebrated
Italian painter. The criticisms are chiefly founded on the copy by Marco Oggioni, now in the
possession of the Royal Academy of Arts.

Uniform tradition has assumed that the moment of action is that in which the Saviour announces
the treachery of one of his disciples "Dico vobis quia unus vestrum me traditurus est." Matth.
xxvi. 21., Joan. xiii. 21., Vulgate edit.; and most of the admirers of this great work have
not failed to find in it decisive proofs of the intention of the painter to represent that
exact point of time. {525}

The author of the manuscript enters into a very detailed examination of the several groups
of figures which compose the picture, and of the expression of the heads; and he confesses
his inability to find in them anything decisively indicating the period supposed to be chosen.
He remarks that nine at least of the persons, including the principal one, are evidently engaged
in animated conversation; that instead of that concentrated attention which the announcement
might be supposed to generate, there appears to be great variety of expressions and of action;
and that neither surprise nor indignation are so generally prominent, as might have been expected.
He inclines to think that the studied diversity of expression, and the varied attitudes and
gestures of the assembled party, are to be regarded as proofs of the artist's efforts to produce
a powerful and harmonious composition, rather than a natural and truthful representation of
any particular moment of the transaction depicted by him.

It must be borne in mind that the subject had long been a familiar decoration of conventual
refectories before the time when Lionardo brought his profound knowledge of external human
nature, and his unsurpassed powers of executive art, to bear on a subject which had before
been treated in the dry, conventional, inanimate manner of the Middle Ages. The leading features
of the traditional picture are retained: the long table, the linen cloth, the one-sided arrangement
of the figures, the classic drapery, and the general form and design of the apartment, are
all to be found in the earlier works; and must have been considered, by observers in general,
far more essential to the correct delineation of the scene than any adherence to the exact
description of it in any one of the Evangelists. But as the subject was usually introduced
into refectories for the edification of the brethren assembled with their superior at their
own meals, it does not seem likely that the treachery of Judas should have been intended to
be the prominent action of the picture. It was a memorial of the institution of the Eucharist,
although the Christ was not represented as dispensing either bread or wine. In such a case,
if any particular point of time was ever contemplated by the artist, he might judiciously and
appropriately select the moment when the Saviour was announcing, in mysterious words, the close
of his mission--as in St. Matthew and St. Mark; or was teaching them a lesson of humility when
the spirit of rivalry and strife had disclosed itself among them--as we find in St. Luke and
St. John.

It is not perhaps generally known that the statutes of Queen's College, Oxford, prescribe the
order of sitting at the common table in manner which evidently refers to the coenaculum of
the old church painters.

E. SMIRKE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Scotter Register (County Lincoln).--The following extracts from the register of the parish
of Scotter, in the county of Lincoln, are perhaps sufficiently interesting to be worth printing
in "N. & Q.":

    1. "Eccelesia parochialis de Scotter comitatu Lincolniæ dedicata est
    Beatis Apostolis Sancto Petro et Sancto Paulo ut apparet in Antiquo
    Scripto viduæ Loddington de Scotter, viz. in testamento vltimo Thomæ
    Dalyson, Gen. de Scotter, qui obiit Junii 19^o, anno Domini 1495.

     "GUL. CARRINGTON,
         "Rector ecl[=i]a ibid."

    2. "Memorandum, That on Septuagesima Sunday, being the 19^{th} day of
    January, 1667, one Francis Drury, an excommunicate person, came into
    the church in time of divine service in y^e morning, and being
    admonisht by mee to begon, hee obstinately refused, whereuppon y^e
    whole congregation departed; and after the same manner in the
    afternoon, the same day, he came again, and refusing againe to go out,
    the whole congregation againe went home, soe y^t little or no service
    pformed. They prevented his further coming in y^t manner, as hee
    threatned, by order from the Justice, uppon the statute of Queene
    Elizabeth concerning the molestation and disturbance of publiq
    preachers.

      WM. CARRINGTON, Rec."

    "O tempora, O mores."

    3. "Michæl Skinner Senex centum et trium annorum sepultus fuit die
    sancti Johannis, viz. Dec. 27, 1673."

EDWARD PEACOCK, Jun.

Bottesford Moors, Kirton Lindsey.

"All my Eye."--"Over the Left."

    "What benefit a Popish successor can reap from lives and fortunes spent
    in defence of the Protestant religion, he may put in his eye: and what
    the Protestant religion gets by lives and fortunes spent in the service
    of a Popish successor, will be over the left shoulder."--Preface to
    Julian the Apostate: London, printed for Langley Curtis, on Ludgate
    Hill. 1682.

Is this passage the origin of the above cant phrases?

GEORGE DANIEL.

Canonbury.

Curious Marriages.--In Harl. MSS. 1550, p. 180., is the pedigree of Irby, where Anthony Irby
has two daughters: Margaret, who married Henry Death, and Dorothy, who married John Domesday.

E. G. BALLARD. {526}

Child-mother.--Four months ago, on board the Brazil packet, the royal mail steam-vessel Severn,
there was an instance of a "child-wife," which might be worthy of a place among your curiosities
of that description.

She was the wedded wife of a Brazilian travelling from the Brazils to Lisbon, and her husband
applied for permission to pay the "reduced passage money" for her as being "under twelve years
of age!"

As the regulation on that head speaks of "children under twelve years of age," this conscientious
Brazilian's demand could not be countenanced.

His wife's age was under eleven years and a half, and (credat Judæus) she was a mother!

A. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

FURTHER QUERIES RESPECTING BISHOP KEN.

(Continued from Vol. vii., p. 380.)

In a Collection of Poems, in six volumes, by several Hands (Dodsley, 5th edition, 1758), and
in vol. iii. p. 75., is found "An Epistle from Florence to T. A., Esq., Tutor to the Earl of
P----. Written in the year 1740. By the Honourable ----." Can any one explain an allusion contained
in these three lines of the epistle?

It is hardly to be supposed that the Ken here named could mean the bishop, who died so far
back as 1711. Was there a coin-collector of that name living about 1740?

We learn (from Ken's Prose Works, ed. Round, pp. 93, 94.) that the Bishop's sister, "my poor
sister Ken," most probably then a widow, lost her only son, who died at Cyprus, in 1707. Was
this Mrs. Ken the Rose Vernon, sister of Sir Thomas Vernon, of Coleman Street, London, and
the wife of Jon Ken, the bishop's eldest brother, and treasurer of the East India Company?
This Jon and Rose Ken are represented, in Mr. Markland's Pedigree of the Ken family, as still
living in 1683. Is there no monumental memorial of this Treasurer Ken, or his family, in any
of the London churches? On what authority (for none is cited) does this statement rest?

Can any one give a clue to this passage from a letter written to Mr. Harbin, Lord Weymouth's
chaplain, by Bishop Ken, and dated "Winton, Jan 22." [1701]:

    "I came to Winchester yesterday, where I stay one post more, and then
    go either to Sir R. U. or L. Newton, where you shall hear from
    me."--Ken's Prose Works, by Round, p. 53.

Can "Sir R. U." (the U perhaps being a mistake for W.) designate Sir Robert Worsley, Bart.,
of Chilton, in the county of Southampton, married to Lord Weymouth's daughter? and can "L.
Newton" be a mistake for Long Sutton, in Hants? or may it be Long Newton, in the hundred of
Malmesbury?

J. J. J.

Temple.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REV. JOHN LAWSON AND HIS MATHEMATICAL MANUSCRIPTS.

In the year 1774 the Rev. John Lawson, B.D., Rector of Swanscombe in Kent, published A Dissertation
on the Geometrical Analysis of the Antients, with a Collection of Theorems and Problems without
solutions for the Exercise of young Students. This work was printed anonymously at Canterbury,
but the merits of the essay did not permit the author to remain long in obscurity; the real
writer was immediately known to most of the geometers of the day, and the elegant character
of many of the theorems and problems, led to a general desire that their solutions should be
published in a separate work. In accordance with this intention, it was announced on a fly-sheet
attached to some copies of the work, that--

    "The author of this publication being a man of leisure, and living in a
    retired situation, remote from any opportunity of conversation with
    mathematicians, would be extremely glad of a correspondence with any
    such, who are willing to be at the expense of the same; or if this be
    thought too much, will pay the postage of his answers to their letters.
    But no letters, except post-paid, can be received by him; otherwise a
    door would be opened for frolic, imposition, and impertinence. Any new
    geometrical propositions, either theorems or problems, would be
    received with gratitude, and if sent without solutions, he would use
    his best endeavours to return such as might be satisfactory. Any new
    solutions of propositions already in print, especially of those
    included in the present collection, would also be very agreeable. If a
    variety of such demonstrations essentially different from those of the
    original authors should be communicated, he proposes at some future
    time to publish them all, with a fresh collection for further exercise;
    and then each author's name shall be affixt to his own solution, or any
    other signature which he shall please to direct. Any person who shall
    favor the publisher with his correspondence shall have speedily
    conveyed to him the solutions of any propositions contained in this
    collection, which he may be desirous of seeing. Letters (post-paid)
    directed for P. Q., to be left at Mr. Nourse's, Bookseller, in the
    {527} Strand, London, will be carefully transmitted on the first day of
    each month, and all correspondents may expect answers during the course
    of that month."

In consequence of this appeal, Mr. Lawson was speedily in correspondence with several of the
most able geometers then living, and amongst the rest, Messrs. Ainsworth, Clarke, Merrit, Power,
&c., appear to have furnished him with original solutions to his collection of theorems and
problems. The manuscript containing these solutions must have been of considerable size, since
a portion of it was sent down to Manchester about July, 1777, for the purpose of obtaining
Mr. Ainsworth's remarks and corrections; and Mr. Lawson is requested, in a letter bearing date
"August 22, 1777," to "send the next portion when convenient." Whether Mr. Lawson did so or
not, I have not yet been able to ascertain; but this much is certain, the manuscript was never
printed, and would most probably either be disposed of at the death of its compiler, or previously
transferred to the possession of some geometer of Mr. Lawson's acquaintance. Several of the
original letters which passed between the respective parties relating to this manuscript are
at present in the hands of two or three of the Lancashire geometers, but no one seems to know
anything of the manuscript itself. May I then request that the fortunate holder of this yet
valuable collection will make himself known through the medium of the widely circulated pages
of "N. & Q."

T. T. WILKINSON.

Burnley, Lancashire.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

"Wanderings of Memory."--In Brayley's Graphic and Historical Illustrator, p. 293., is a quotation
from the Wanderings of Memory, as a motto to an account of the ancient castle of the Peverils
at Castleton, in Derbyshire: can any of your readers tell me who was the author of the poem
in question?

W. R.

Camden Town.

"Wandering Willie's Tale."--Has the scene that presented itself to the view of Piper Steenie
Steenson, when he was ushered by the phantom of his old friend Dougal M^cCallum into the presence
of the ghastly revellers carousing in the auld oak parlour of the visionary Redgauntlet Castle,
ever been painted? (See Redgauntlet, Letter xi.) If it has, is there any engraving of the picture
extant or on sale?

C. FORBES.

Temple.

Chapel Sunday.--I had the pleasure of spending a Sunday in the course of the last summer in
the neighbourhood of Keswick, among the delightful lake scenery of England. I there learned
that in the village of Thornthwaite it was Chapel Sunday, and on inquiry I was told that there
were a few other villages in the neighbourhood where there was also a Chapel Sunday. Upon this
day it is the custom of young people to come from neighbouring places to attend worship at
the village church or chapel, and the afternoon partakes of a merry-making character at the
village inn. There appeared, as far as I could see, no excesses attending the anniversary,
all being respectable in their conduct. Can any of your Cambrian readers inform me the origin
of this anniversary?

PRESTONIENSIS.

Proud Salopians.--I have never heard a satisfactory account of the origin of this title, given
to persons belonging to my native county.

In the neighbourhood the following story is frequently related, but with what authority I cannot
tell, viz. "That upon the king (Query which?) offering to make Shrewsbury a city, the inhabitants
replied that they preferred its remaining the largest borough in England, rather than it should
be the smallest city; their pride not allowing them to be small among the great."

If this history of the term be true, it would appear that the name should only be applied to
burgesses of Shrewsbury.

SALOPIAN.

George Miller, D.D.--In the year 1796, George Miller, subsequently the author of Modern History
Philosophically Illustrated, and many other well-known works (of which a list appears in a
recent Memoir), was appointed Donnelan Lecturer in Trinity College, Dublin; and delivered a
course of sermons or lectures on "An Inquiry into the Causes that have impeded the further
Progress of Christianity." I should be very glad indeed to know whether these Sermons have
appeared in print; and if so, when and where published? I have not been able to procure a copy.

With regard to the Donnelan Lectureship, I may add, that a legacy of 1243l. was bequeathed
to the College of Dublin by Mrs. Anne Donnelan, of the parish of St. George, Hanover Square,
in the county of Middlesex, spinster, "for the encouragement of religion, learning, and good
manners." The particular mode of application was entrusted to the Provost and Senior Fellows;
and accordingly, amongst other resolutions of the Board, passed Feb. 22, 1794, are to be found
the following: "That a Divinity Lecture, to which shall be annexed a salary arising from the
interest of 1200l., shall be established for ever, to be called Donnelan's Lecture;" and "That
one moiety of the interest of the said 1200l. shall be paid to the Lecturer as soon as he shall
have delivered the whole number [six] of the lectures; and the other moiety as soon as he shall
have published four of the said Lectures."

ABHBA. {528}

Members of Parliament.--Pennant, in The Journey from Chester to London, p. 94., says:

    "The ancient owners of Rudgley were of the same name with the town:
    some of the family had the honour of being sheriffs of the county in
    the reign of Edward III. Another was knight of the shire in the same
    period."

Can any reader of "N. & Q." verify the last portion of Pennant's statement?

J. W. S. R.

St. Ives, Hunts.

Taret.--I have lately met with mention of a "small insect called the Taret." What may this be?

TYRO.

Jeroboam of Claret, &c.--Could any of your correspondents inform me what a Jeroboam of Claret
is, and from what it is derived: also a Magnum of Port?

WINEBIBBER.

William Williams of Geneva.--In Livre des Anglois, à Génève, with a few biographical notes
by J. S. Burn, Esq., pages 5, 6. 12, 13., mention is made of Guillaume--Will[=m] Will[=m]s,
and Jane his wife,--Will[=m] Will[=m]s, a senior of the church there in 1555, 1556, 1557, 1558;
and some of the years he was a godfather. I shall be glad to have some further account of such
William Williams, or references to where to find such?

GLWYSIG.

The First of April and "The Cap awry."--Tom Moore, in his Diary, 1819, says:

    "April 1st. Made Bessy turn her cap awry in honour of the day."

What was the origin of this custom? Was this the way a fool was supposed to show that his head
was turned?

C. R.

Paternoster Row.

Sir G. Browne, Bart.--Sir George Browne, Bart., of West Stafford, Berks, and Wickham, is said
to have had nineteen children by his wife Eleanor Blount; and that three of those children
were sons, killed in the service of Charles I.

Was either of those sons named Richard; and was any of them, and which, married? If so, where,
and to whom?

NEWBURY.

Bishop Butler.--Will any of our Roman Catholic friends tell us on what authority they assert
that Bishop Butler, the author of The Analogy, died in their communion? That he was suspected
of a tendency that way during his life is acknowledged by all, though the grounds, that of
setting up a cross in his chapel, are confessedly unsatisfactory. One would be glad to have
this question sifted.

X. Y. Z.

Oaken Tombs.--In Dr. Whitaker's noble history of Loidis and Elmete, p. 322., is the following
passage:

    "Next in point of time is a very singular memorial, which has evidently
    been removed from its original position, between the chapel and the
    high altar, to a situation at the south side and west end of the
    chapel.... The tomb is a messy frame-work of oak, with quarter-foils
    and arms on three sides, and on the table above three statues of the
    same material, namely, of a knight bare-headed, with rather youthful
    countenance and sharp features, and his two wives. On the filleting is
    this rude inscription in Old English:

     'Bonys emong Stonys, lyes here ful styl,
      Quilst the sawle wanders wher God wyl.
              Anno D^{ni} MCCCCCXXIX.'

    This commemorates Sir John Savile, who married, &c.

    "Over all has been a canopy, or rather tester, for the whole must have
    originally resembled an antique and massy bedstead, exhibiting the very
    incongruous appearance of a husband in bed with two wives at once."

The Doctor adds:

    "Oaken tombs are very rare; that of Aymer de Valence in Westminster
    Abbey has been and still is in part coated over with copper, gilt, and
    enamelled, and I have seen another in the church of Tickencote in
    Rutlandshire. I do not recollect a third specimen."

Query, How many have been discovered since the great historian's day?

ST. BEES.

Alleged Bastardy of Elizabeth.--In the State Paper Office (Dom. Pap., temp. Jac. I.), there
is, under date of 1608, a letter from Mr. Chamberlaine to Sir Dudley Carleton, of October 28,
in which Chamberlaine says:

    "I heare of a Bill put into the Exchequer, concerninge much lande that
    sh^d be alienated on account of the alleged bastardy of Queen
    Elizabeth."

P. C. S. S. is desirous to know whether there be any record in the Court of Exchequer which
bears out this singular statement.

P. C. S. S.

"Pugna Porcorum."--Where may be found some account of the author, object, &c. of this facetious
production?

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

Parviso.--Can any of your readers inform me as to the meaning of the word parviso; it occurs
in the usual form of the "Testamur" for Responsions. On reference to Webster's Dictionary,
I find that parvis is a small porch or gateway; perhaps this may throw some light upon the
question.

OXONIENSIS.

