THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 12, NO. 348.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1828. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

The engraving represents a place of historical interest--an ancient mansion in Mare-street,
Hackney, built about the year 1591, upon a spot of ground called Barbour Berns, by which name,
or rather Barber's Barn, the house has been described in old writings.

In this house resided the noted Colonel John Okey, one of the regicides "charged with compassing
and imagining the death of the late King Charles I." in October, 1660. Nineteen of these "bold
traitors," (among whom was Okey,) fled from justice, and were attainted, and Barber's Barn
was in his tenure at the time of his attainder. His interest in the premises being forfeited
to the crown, was granted to the Duke of York, who, by his indenture, dated 1663, gave up his
right therein to Okey's widow. The colonel was apprehended in Holland, with Sir John Berkestead
and Miles Corbett, in 1662, whence they were sent over to England; and having been outlawed
for high treason, a rule was made by the Court of King's Bench for their execution at Tyburn.
These were the last of the regicides that were punished capitally.

Barber's Barn and its adjoining grounds have, however, since become appropriated to more pacific
pursuits than hatching treason, compassing, &c. About the middle of the last century, one John
Busch cultivated the premises as a nursery. Catharine II. Empress of Russia, says a correspondent
of Mr. Loudon's Gardener's Magazine, "finding she could have nothing done to her mind, she
determined to have a person from England to lay out her garden." Busch was the person engaged
to go out to Russia for this purpose; and in the year 1771 he gave up his concerns at Hackney,
with the nursery and foreign correspondence, to Messrs. Loddidges. These gentlemen, who rank
as the most eminent florists and nurserymen of their time, have here extensive green and hot
houses which are heated by steam; the ingenious apparatus belonging to which has been principally
devised by themselves. Their gardens boast of the finest display of exotics ever assembled
in this country, and a walk through them is one of the most delightful spectacles of Nature.

Hackney was once distinguished by princely mansions; but, alas! many of these abodes of wealth
have been turned into receptacles for lunatics! Brooke House, formerly the seat of a nobleman
of that name, and Balmes' House, within memory surrounded by a moat, and approached only by
a drawbridge, have shared this humiliating fate. Sir Robert Viner,[1] who made Charles II.
"stay and take t'other bottle," resided here; and John Ward, Esq. M.P. whom Pope has "damned
to everlasting fame," had a house at Hackney.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS STONE PULPIT.

(For the Mirror.)

The pulpit in the church of St. Peter, at Wolverhampton, is formed wholly of stone. It consists
of one entire piece, with the pedestal which supports it, the flight of steps leading to it,
with the balustrade, &c., without any division, the whole having been cut out of a solid block
of stone. The church was erected in the year 996, at which time it is said this remarkable
pulpit was put up; and notwithstanding its great age, which appears to be 832 years, it is
still in good condition. At the foot of the steps is a large figure, intended to represent
a lion couchant, but carved after so grotesque a fashion, as to puzzle the naturalist in his
attempts to determine its proper classification. In other respects the ornamental sculpture
about the pulpit is neat and appropriate, and presents a curious specimen of the taste of our
ancestors at that early period.

This is a collegiate church, with a fine embattled tower, of rich Gothic architecture, and
was originally dedicated to the Virgin, but altered in the time of Henry III. to St. Peter.
It is pleasantly situated on a gravelly hill, and commands a fine prospect towards Shropshire
and Wales.

A CORRESPONDENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAST DAYS OF, AND ROUGH NOTES ON, 1828.

(For the Mirror.)

  It was but yesterday the snow
    Of thy dead sire was on the hill--
  It was but yesterday the flow
    Of thy spring showers increased the rill,
  And made a thousand blossoms swell
    To welcome summer's festival.....
  And now all these are of the past,
    For this lone hour must be thy last!

  Thou must depart! where none may know--
    The sun for thee hath ever set,
  The star of morn, the silver bow,
    No more shall gem thy coronet
  And give thee glory; but the sky
    Shall shine on thy posterity!...

So there's an end of 1828; "all its great and glorious transactions are now nothing more than
mere matter of history!" What wars of arms and words! what lots of changes and secessions!
what debates on "guarantee," "stipulations," and "untoward" events! what "piles of legislation!"
what a fund of speculation for the denizens of the stock-exchange, and newspaper press!--all
may now be embodied in that little word--the past; and only serve to fill up and figure in
the pages of the next "Annual Register!"--sic transit gloria--"but the proverb is somewhat
musty." One, two, three.... ten, eleven, twelve, and now "methinks my soul hath elbow room."

Those versed in the lore of Francis Moore, physician, which must doubtless include most of
our readers, are aware that our veteran friend, eighteen hundred and twenty-eight, has been
for some time in what is called a "galloping" consumption, and it is certain cannot possibly
survive after the bells "chime twelve" on Wednesday night, the thirty-first of December,--

  "--as if an angel spoke,
  I hear the solemn sound,"

when he will depart this life, and be gathered to his ancestors, who have successively been
entombed in the vault of Time.

Well, taking all things into consideration, we predict he will not have many mourners in his
train. "Rumours of wars" have gone through the land, and the ominous hieroglyphics of "Raphael"
in his "Prophetic Messenger," unfold to the lover of futurity, that "war with all its bloody
train," will visit this quarter of the globe with unusual severity the coming year--and we
have had comets and "rumours" of comets for many months past, while the red and glaring appearance
of the planet, Mars, is as we have elsewhere observed, considered by the many a forerunner,
and sign of long wars and much bloodshed. To dwell further on the political horizon, or the
"events and fortunes" of the past year would be out of place in the fair pages of the MIRROR;
and should it be our fate to present its readers with future "notings" on another year, we
will then dwell upon the good or ill-fortune of Turk or Russian to the quantum suff. of the
most inveterate politician.

"Enough of this:" 1828 has nearly got the "go-by" and we have outlived its pains and perils,
its varied scenes of good or evil, and its pleasures too, for there is a bright side to human
reverse and suffering, and we are ready at our posts to enact and stand another campaign in
this "strange eventful history." We often find that the public discover virtues and good qualities
in a man after his death, which they had previously given him no credit for; let this be as
it may, 1828 may be deemed a very "passable" year. To use a simile, a sick man when recovering
from a fever, makes slow progress at first; and we should fairly hope that the gallant ship
is at last weathering the hurricane of the "commercial crisis," and that the trade-winds of
prosperity will again visit us and extend their balmy influence over our shores; and to borrow
a commercial phrase, we trust to be able to quote an improvement on this head next year.

  I stood between the meeting years
    The coming and the past,
  And I ask'd of the future one
    Wilt thou be like the last?
  The same in many a sleepless night,
    In many an anxious day?
  Thank heaven! I have no prophet's eye,
    To look upon thy way!

L.E.L.

The march of mind is progressing, and the once boasted "wisdom of our ancestors" and the "golden
days of good Queen Bess," are hurled with derision to the tomb of all the Capulets. We regret
that we cannot chronicle a "Narrative of a first attempt to reach the cities of Bath and Bristol,
in the year 1828, in an extra patent steam-coach, by Messrs. Burstall, or Gurney." The newspapers,
however, still continue to inform us that such vehicles are about to start, so we may reasonably
expect that Time will accomplish the long talked of event. Nay, we even hear it rumoured that
the public are shortly to crest the billows in a steamer at the rate of fifty or a hundred
miles an hour! and this is mentioned as a mere first essay, an immature sample of what the
improved steam-paddles are to effect--also in Time; who after this can doubt the approaching
perfectibility of Mars? Oh, steam! steam! but this is well ploughed ground.

Art, science, and literature, also progress, and we almost begin to fear we shall soon be puzzled
where to stow the books, and anticipate a dearth in rags, an extinction of Rag-Fair! (which
will keep the others in countenance,) the booksellers' maws seem so capacious. Christmas with
its rare recollections of feasting (and their pendant of bile and sick headache) has again
come round. New Year's Day, and of all the days most "rich and rare," Twelfth Day is coming!
But it is in Scotland that the advent of the new year, or Hogmanay is kept with the most hilarity;
the Scotch by their extra rejoicings at this time, seem to wish to make up for their utter
neglect of Christmas. We may be induced to offer a few reminiscences of a sojourn in the north,
at this period, on a future occasion. The extreme beauty of the following lines on the year
that is past, will, we think, prove a sufficient apology for their introduction here:--

  In darkness, in eternal space,
    Sightless as a sin-quenched star,
  Thou shalt pursue thy wandering race,
    Receding into regions far--
  On thee the eyes of mortal men
  Shall never, never light again;
  Memory alone may steal a glance
    Like some wild glimpse in sleep we're taking.
  Of a long perish'd countenance
    We have forgotten when awaking--
  Sad, evanescent, colour'd weak,
  As beauty on a dying cheek.

  Farewell! that cold regretful word
    To one whom we have called a friend--
  Yet still "farewell" I must record
    The sign that marks our friendship's end.
  Thou'rt on thy couch of wither'd leaves,
  The surly blast thy breath receives,
  In the stript woods I hear thy dirge,
    Thy passing bell the hinds are tolling
  Thy death-song sounds in ocean's surge,
    Oblivion's clouds are round thee rolling,
  Thou'lst buried be where buried lie
  Years of the dead eternity!

It is needless to add that our old friend will be succeeded in his title and estates by his
next heir, eighteen hundred and twenty-nine, whose advent will no doubt be generally welcomed.
We cannot help picturing to ourselves the anxiety, the singularly deep and thrilling interest,
which universally prevails as his last hour approaches:--

  "Hark the deep-toned chime of that bell
    As it breaks on the midnight ear--
  Seems it not tolling a funeral knell?
    'Tis the knell of the parting year!
  Before that bell shall have ceas'd its chime
  The year shall have sunk on the ocean of Time!"

And shall we go on after this lone hour? no, we will even follow its course, draw this article
to a close by wishing our readers, in the good old phrase, "a happy New Year and many of them;"
and conclude with them, that

  Our pilgrimage here
  By so much is shorten'd--then fare thee well Year!

VYVYAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

ODE TO MORPHEUS.

(For the Mirror.)

  Tell me, thou god of slumbers! why
    Thus from my pillow dost thou fly?
  And wherefore, stranger to thy balmy power,
    Whilst death-like silence reigns around,
    And wraps the world in sleep profound,
  Must I alone count every passing hour?
  And, whilst each happier mind is hush'd in sleep,
  Must I alone a painful vigil keep,
  And to the midnight shades my lonely sorrows pour?

    Once more be thou the friend of woe,
    And grant my heavy eyes to know
  The welcome pressure of thy healing hand;
    So shall the gnawing tooth of care
    Its rude attacks awhile forbear,
  Still'd by the touch of thy benumbing wand--
  And my tir'd spirit, with thy influence blest,
  Shall calmly yield it to the arms of rest,
  But which, or comes or flies, only at thy command!

    Yet if when sleep the body chains
    In sweet oblivion of its pains,
  Thou bid'st imagination active wake,
    Oh, Morpheus! banish from my bed
    Each form of grief, each form of dread,
  And all that can the soul with horror shake:
  Let not the ghastly fiends admission find,
  Which conscience forms to haunt the guilty mind--
  Oh! let not forms like these my peaceful slumbers break!

    But bring before my raptured sight
    Each pleasing image of delight,
  Of love, of friendship, and of social joy;
    And chiefly, on thy magic wing
    My ever blooming Mary bring,
  (Whose beauties all my waking thoughts employ,)
  Glowing with rosy health and every charm
  That knows to fill my breast with soft alarm,
  Oh, bring the gentle maiden to my fancy's eye!

    Not such, as oft my jealous fear
    Hath bid the lovely girl appear,
  Deaf to my vows, by my complaints unmov'd,
    Whilst to my happier rival's prayer,
    Smiling, she turns a willing ear,
  And gives the bliss supreme to be belov'd:
  Oh, sleep dispensing power! such thoughts restrain,
  Nor e'en in dreams inflict the bitter pain,
  To know my vows are scorn'd--my rivals are approv'd!

    Ah, no! let fancy's hand supply
    The blushing cheek, the melting eye,
  The heaving breast which glows with genial fire;
    Then let me clasp her in my arms,
    And, basking in her sweetest charms,
  Lose every grief in that triumphant hour.
  If Morpheus, thus thou'lt cheat the gloomy night,
  For thy embrace I'll fly day's garish light,
  Nor ever wish to wake while dreams like this inspire!

HUGH DELMORE.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON IDLENESS.

(For the Mirror.)

It has been somewhere asserted, that "no one is idle who can do any thing. It is conscious
inability, or the sense of repeated failures, that prevents us from undertaking, or deters
us from the prosecution of any work." In answer to this it may be said, that men of very great
natural genius are in general exempt from a love of idleness, because, being pushed forward,
as it were, and excited to action by that vis vivida, which is continually stirring within
them, the first effort, the original impetus, proceeds not altogether from their own voluntary
exertion, and because the pleasure which they, above all others, experience in the exercise
of their faculties, is an ample compensation for the labour which that exercise requires. Accordingly,
we find that the best writers of every age have generally, though not always, been the most
voluminous. Not to mention a host of ancients, I might instance many of our own country as
illustrious examples of this assertion, and no example more illustrious than that of the immortal
Shakspeare. In our times the author of "Waverley," whose productions, in different branches
of literature, would almost of themselves fill a library, continues to pour forth volume after
volume from his inexhaustible stores. Mr. Southey, too, the poet, the historian, the biographer,
and I know not what besides, is remarkable for his literary industry; and last, not least,
the noble bard, the glory and the regret of every one who has a soul to feel those "thoughts
that breathe and words that burn," the mighty poet himself, notwithstanding the shortness of
his life, is distinguished by the number, as well as by the beauty and sublimity of his works.
Besides these and other male writers, the best of our female authors, the boast and delight
of the present age, and who have been compared to "so many modern Muses"--Miss Landon, Mrs.
Hemans, Miss Edgeworth, Miss Mitford, &c.--have they not already supplied us largely with the
means of entertainment and instruction, and have we not reason to expect still greater supplies
from the same sources?

But although it may be easily allowed that men of very great natural genius are for the most
part exempt from a love of idleness, it ought also to be acknowledged that there are others
to whom, indeed, nature has not been equally bountiful, but who possess a certain degree of
talent which perseverance and study (if to study they would apply themselves) might gradually
advance, and at last carry to excellence.

With the exception of a few master spirits of every age and nation, genius is more equally
distributed among mankind than many suppose. Hear what Quintilian says on the subject; his
observations are these:--"It is a groundless complaint, that very few are endowed with quick
apprehension, and that most persons lose the fruits of all their application and study through
a natural slowness of understanding. The case is the very reverse, because we find mankind
in general to be quick in apprehension, and susceptible of instruction, this being the characteristic
of the human race; and as birds have from nature a propensity to fly, horses to run, and wild
beasts to be savage, so is activity and vigour of mind peculiar to man; and hence his mind
is supposed to be of divine original. But men are no more born with minds naturally dull and
indocile, than with bodies of monstrous shapes, and these are very rare."

From what has been premised, this conclusion may be drawn--that it is not "conscious inability"
alone, but often a love of leisure, which prevents us from undertaking any work. Many, to whom
nature had given a certain degree of genius, have lived without sufficiently exercising that
genius, and have, therefore, bequeathed no fruits of it to posterity at their death.

A CORRESPONDENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

BLACKHEATH, KENT.

(For the Mirror.)

It was here the Danish army lay a considerable time encamped in 1011; and here that Wat Tyler,
the Kentish rebel, mustered 100,000 men. Jack Cade, also, who styled himself John Mortimer,
and laid claim to the crown, pretending that he was kinsman to the Duke of York, encamped on
this heath for a month together, with a large body of rebels, which he had gathered in this
and the neighbouring counties, in 1451; and the following year Henry VI. pitched his royal
pavilion here, having assembled troops to withstand the force of his cousin, Edward, Duke of
York, afterwards Edward IV.; and here, against that king, the bastard Falconbridge encamped.
In 1497, the Lord Audley; Flemmock, an attorney; and Joseph, the blacksmith, encamped on this
place in the rebellion they raised against Henry VII.; and here they were routed, with a loss
of upwards of 2,000 on the spot, and 14,000 prisoners.

In 1415, the lord mayor and aldermen of London, with 400 citizens in scarlet, and with white
and red hoods, came to Blackheath, where they met the victorious Henry V. on his return from
France, after the famous battle of Agincourt: from Blackheath they conducted his majesty to
London. In 1474, the lord mayor and aldermen, attended by 500 citizens, also met Edward IV.
here, on his return from France. It appears also to have been usual formerly to meet foreign
princes, and other persons of high rank, on Blackheath, on their arrival in England. On the
2lst of December, 1411, Maurice, Emperor of Constantinople, who came to solicit assistance
against the Turks, was met here with great magnificence by Henry IV.; and in 1416 the Emperor
Sigismund was met here, and from thence conducted in great pomp to London. In 1518, the lord
admiral of France and the archbishop of Paris, both ambassadors from the French king, with
above 1,200 attendants, were met here by the admiral of England and above 500 gentlemen; and
the following year Cardinal Campejus, the pope's legate, being attended hither by the gentlemen
of Kent, was met by the Duke of Norfolk, and many noblemen and prelates of England; and in
a tent of cloth of gold he put on his cardinal's robes, richly ermined, and from hence rode
to London, Here also Henry VIII. met the Princess Anne of Cleves in great state and pomp.

HALBERT H.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST

THE WOES OF WEALTH.

By the Rev. G. Croly.

A retired barrister, living happily with his wife and children on a very moderate patrimony,
has suddenly the misery to have a large fortune left him.--Time pressed. I set off at day break
for London; plunged into the tiresome details of legateeship; and after a fortnight's toil,
infinite weariness, and longings to breathe in any atmosphere unchoked by a million of chimneys,
to sleep where no eternal rolling of equipages should disturb my rest, and to enjoy society
without being trampled on by dowagers fifty deep, I saw my cottage roof once more.

But where was the cheerfulness that once made it more than a palace to me? The remittances
that I had made from London were already conspiring against my quiet. I could scarcely get
a kiss from either of my girls, they were in such merciless haste to make their dinner "toilet."
My kind and comely wife was actually not to be seen; and her apology, delivered by a coxcomb
in silver lace to the full as deep as any in (my rival) the sugar-baker's service, was, that
"his lady would have the honour of waiting on me as soon as she was dressed." This was of course
the puppy's own version of the message; but its meaning was clear, and it was ominous.

Dinner came at last: the table was loaded with awkward profusion; but it was as close an imitation
as we could yet contrive of our opulent neighbour's display. No less than four footmen, discharged
as splendid superfluities from the household of a duke, waited behind our four chairs, to make
their remarks on our style of eating in contrast with the polished performances at their late
master's. But Mrs. Molasses had exactly four. The argument was unanswerable. Silence and sullenness
reigned through the banquet; but on the retreat of the four gentlemen who did us the honour
of attending, the whole tale of evil burst forth. What is the popularity of man? The whole
family had already dropped from the highest favouritism into the most angry disrepute. A kind
of little rebellion raged against us in the village: we were hated, scorned, and libelled on
all sides. My unlucky remittances had done the deed.

The village milliner, a cankered old carle, who had made caps and bonnets for the vicinage
during the last forty years, led the battle. The wife and daughters of a man of East Indian
wealth were not to be clothed like meaner souls; and the sight of three London bonnets in my
pew had set the old sempstress in a blaze. The flame was easily propagated. The builder of
my chaise-cart was irritated at the handsome barouche in which my family now moved above the
heads of mankind. The rumour that champagne had appeared at the cottage roused the indignation
of the honest vintner who had so long supplied me with port: and professional insinuations
of the modified nature of this London luxury were employed to set the sneerers of the village
against me and mine. Our four footmen had been instantly discovered by the eye of an opulent
neighbour; and the competition was at once laughed at as folly, and resented as an insult.
Every hour saw some of my old friends falling away from me. An unlucky cold, which seized one
of my daughters a week before my return, had cut away my twenty years' acquaintance, the village-doctor,
from my cause; for the illness of an "heiress" was not to be cured by less than the first medical
authority of the province. The supreme Aesculapius was accordingly called in; and his humbler
brother swore, in the bitterness of his soul, that he would never forget the affront on this
side of death's door. The inevitable increase of dignity which communicated itself to the manners
of my whole household did the rest; and if my wife held her head high, never was pride more
peevishly retorted. Like the performers in a pillory, we seemed to have been elevated only
for the benefit of a general pelting.

These were the women's share of the mischief; but I was not long without administering in person
to our unpopularity. The report of my fortune had, as usual, been enormously exaggerated; and
every man who had a debt to pay, or a purchase to make, conceived himself "bound to apply first
to his old and excellent friend, to whom the accommodation for a month or two must be such
a trifle." If I had listened to a tenth of those compliments, "their old and excellent friend"
would have only preceded them to a jail. In some instances I complied, and so far only showed
my folly; for who loves his creditor? My refusal of course increased the host of my enemies;
and I was pronounced purse-proud, beggarly, and unworthy of the notice of the "true gentlemen,
who knew how to spend their money."

Yet, though I was to be thus abandoned by my fox-hunting friends, I was by no means to feel
myself the inhabitant of a solitary world. If the sudden discovery of kindred could cheer me
under my calamities, no man might have passed a gayer life. For a long succession of years
I had not seen a single relative. Not that they altogether disdained even the humble hospitalities
of my cottage, or the humble help of my purse; on the contrary, they liked both exceedingly,
and would have exhibited their affection in enjoying them as often as I pleased.

But I had early adopted a resolution, which I recommend to all men. I made use of no disguise
on the subject of our mutual tendencies. I knew them to be selfish, beggarly in the midst of
wealth, and artificial in the fulness of protestation. I disdained to play the farce of civility
with them. I neither kissed nor quarrelled with them; but I quietly shut my door, and at last
allowed no foot of their generation inside it. They hated me mortally in consequence, and I
knew it. I despised them, and I conclude they knew that too. But I was resolved that they should
not despise me; and I secured that point by not suffering them to feel that they had made me
their dupe. The nabob's will had not soothed their tempers; and I was honoured with their most
smiling animosity.

But now, as if they were hidden in the ground like weeds only waiting for the shower, a new
and boundless crop of relationship sprang up. Within the first fortnight after my return, I
was overwhelmed with congratulations from east, west, north, and south; and every postscript
pointed with a request for my interest with boards and public offices of all kinds; with India
presidents, treasury secretaries, and colonial patrons, for the provision of sons, nephews,
and cousins, to the third and fourth generation.

My positive declarations that I had no influence with ministers were received with resolute
scepticism. I was charged with old obligations conferred on my grandfathers and grandmothers;
and, finally, had the certain knowledge that my gentlest denials were looked upon as a compound
of selfishness and hypocrisy. Before a month was out, I had extended my sources of hostility
to three-fourths of the kingdom, and contrived to plant in every corner some individual who
looked on himself as bound to say the worst he could of his heartless, purse-proud, and abjured
kinsman.

I should have sturdily borne up against all this while I could keep the warfare out of my own
county. But what man can abide a daily skirmish round his house? I began to think of retreating
while I was yet able to show my head; for, in truth, I was sick of this perpetual belligerency.
I loved to see happy human faces. I loved the meeting of those old and humble friends to whose
faces, rugged as they were, I was accustomed. I liked to stop and hear the odd news of the
village, and the still odder versions of London news that transpired through the lips of our
established politicians. I liked an occasional visit to our little club, where the exciseman,
of fifty years standing was our oracle in politics; the attorney, of about the same duration,
gave us opinions on the drama, philosophy, and poetry, all equally unindebted to Aristotle;
and my mild and excellent father-in-law, the curate, shook his silver locks in gentle laughter
at the discussion. I loved a supper in my snug parlour with the choice half dozen; a song from
my girls, and a bottle after they were gone to dream of bow-knots and bargains for the next day.

But my delights were now all crushed. Another Midas, all I touched had turned to gold; and
I believe in my soul that, with his gold, I got credit for his asses' ears.

However, I had long felt that contempt for popular opinion which every man feels who knows
of what miserable materials it is made--how much of it is mere absurdity--how much malice--how
much more the frothy foolery and maudlin gossip of the empty of this empty generation. "What
was it to me if the grown children of our idle community, the male babblers, and the female
cutters-up of character, voted me, in their commonplace souls, the blackest of black sheep?
I was still strong in the solid respect of a few worth them all."

Let no man smile when I say that, on reckoning up this Theban band of sound judgment and inestimable
fidelity, I found my muster reduced to three, and those three of so unromantic a class as the
grey-headed exciseman, the equally grey-headed solicitor, and the curate.

But let it be remembered that a man must take his friends as fortune wills; that he who can
even imagine that he has three is under rare circumstances; and that, as to the romance, time,
which mellows and mollifies so many things, may so far extract the professional virus out of
excisemen and solicitor, as to leave them both not incapable of entering into the ranks of
humanity.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT of DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPECIFIC GRAVITIES.

Table

Showing the proportion per cent, of alcohol contained in different fermented liquors.

                              per cent.

     Port wine                  25.83
     Ordinary port              23.71
     Madeira                    24.42
     Sherry                     19.81
     Lisbon                     18.94
     Bucellas                   18.49
     Cape Madeira               22.94
     Vidonia                    19.25
     Hermitage                  17.43
     Claret                     17.11
     Burgundy                   16.60
     Sauterne                   14.22
     Hock                       14.37
     Champagne                  13.80
     Champagne (sparkling)      12.80
     Vin de Grave               13.94
     Cider from 5.50 to          9.87
     Perry (average)             7.26
     Burton ale                  8.88
     Edinburgh                   6.20
     Dorchester                  5.56
     Brown stout                 6.80
     London porter (average)     4.20
     Brandy                     53.39
     Rum                        53.68
     Gin                        51.60

The figures set down opposite each liquor, exhibit the quantity of alcohol per cent. by measure
in each at the temperature of 60°. Port, Sherry and Madeira, contain a large quantity of alcohol;
that Claret, Burgundy, and Sauterne, contain less; and that Brandy contains as much as 53 per
cent. of alcohol. In a general way, we may say, that the strong wines in common use, contain
as much as a fourth per cent. of alcohol.

Extraordinary Effect of Heat. If, in the completely frozen state, they were thawed before the
fire, they revived. This is a very remarkable instance of how completely animation can be suspended
in cold-blooded animals.

J.G.L.

Method of Softening Cast-Iron.

The following method of rendering cast-iron soft and malleable may be new to some of your readers:--It
consists in placing it in a pot surrounded by a soft red ore, found in Cumberland and other
parts of England, which pot is placed in a common oven, the doors of which being closed, and
but a slight draught of air permitted under the grate; a regular heat is kept up for one or
two weeks, according to the thickness and weight of the castings. The pots are then withdrawn,
and suffered to cool; and by this operation the hardest cast metal is rendered so soft and
malleable, that it may be welded together, or, when in a cool state, bent into almost any shape
by a hammer or vice.

W.G.C.

Washing Salads, Cresses, &c..

A countryman was seized with the most excruciating pain in his stomach, and which continued
for so long a period, that his case became desperate, and his life was even despaired of. In
this predicament, the medical gentleman to whom he applied administered to him a most violent
emetic, and the result was the ejection of the larva, and which remained alive for a quarter
of an hour after its expulsion. Upon questioning the man as to how it was likely that the insect
got into his stomach, he stated that he was exceedingly fond of watercresses, and often gathered
and eat them, and, possibly, without taking due care, in freeing them from any aquatic insects
they might hold. He was also in the frequent habit of lying down and drinking the water of
any clear rivulet when he was thirsty; and thus, in any of these ways, the insect, in its smaller
state, might have been swallowed, and remained gradually increasing in size until it was ready
for the change into the beetle state; at times, probably, preying upon the inner coat of the
stomach, and thus producing the severe pains complained of by the sufferer.

We are surprised we do not hear more of the effects of swallowing the eggs or larva of insects,
along with raw salads of different kinds. We would strongly recommend all families who can
afford it, to keep in their sculleries a cistern of salt water, or, if they will take the trouble
of renewing it frequently, of lime and water; and to have all vegetables to be used raw, first
plunged in this cistern for a minute, and then washed in pure fresh water.--Gardener's Magazine.

Insects on Trees.

Mr. Johnson, of Great Totham, is of opinion that smearing trees with oil, to destroy insects
on them, injures the vegetation, and is not a certain remedy. He recommends scrubbing the trunks
and branches of the trees every second year, with a hard brush dipped in strong brine of common
salt. This effectually destroys insects of all kinds, and moss; and the stimulating influence
of the application and friction is very beneficial.

Manna.

The manna of the larch is thus procured:--About the month of June, when the sap of the tree
is most luxuriant, it produces small white drops, of a sweet glutinous matter, like Calabrian
manna, which are collected by the peasants early in the morning before the sun dissipates them.--Med.
Bot.

Electricity on Plants.

It is very easy to kill plants by means of electricity. A very small shock, according to Cavallo,
sent through the stem of a balsam, is sufficient to destroy it. A few minutes after the passage
of the shock, the plant droops, the leaves and branches become flaccid, and its life ceases.
A small Leyden phial, containing six or eight square inches of coated surface, is generally
sufficient for this purpose, which may even be effected by means of strong sparks from the
prime conductor of a large electrical machine. The charge by which these destructive effects
are produced, is probably too inconsiderable to burst the vessels of the plant, or to occasion
any material derangement of its organization; and, accordingly, it is not found, on minute
examination of a plant thus killed by electricity, that either the internal vessels or any
other parts have sustained perceptible injury.

       *       *       *       *       *

STANGING.

Two correspondents have favoured us with the following illustrations of this curious custom:
one of them (W.H.H.) has appended to his communication a pen and ink sketch, from which the
above engraving is copied:--

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

In Westmoreland this custom is thus commenced:--When it is known that a man has "fallen out"
with his wife, or beaten or ill-used her, the townspeople procure a long pole, and instantly
repair to his house; and after creating as much riot and confusion before the house as possible,
one of them is hoisted upon this pole, borne by the multitude. He then makes a long speech
opposite the said house, condemning, in strong terms, the offender's conduct--the crowd also
showing their disapprobation. After this he is borne to the market-place, where he again proclaims
his displeasure as before; and removes to different parts of the town, until he thinks all
the town are informed of the man's behaviour; and after endeavouring to extort a fine from
the party, which he sometimes does, all repair to a public-house, to regale themselves at his
expense. Unless the delinquent can ill afford it, they take his "goods and chattels," if he
will not surrender his money. The origin of this usage I am ignorant of, and shall be greatly
obliged by any kind correspondent of the MIRROR who will explain it.

W.H.H.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

