"What is that?" asked Charlie, as a little spark of light like a glowworm appeared in the distance,
and a low rumbling noise met their ears.

"You'll see in a minute," said Brownlee, smiling at Charlie's wonder.

The light came gradually nearer and nearer, and then Charlie saw it was a lamp carried by a
boy who had charge of a little pony and some coal tubs--sort of square tubs on wheels. Brownlee
told him that the boys who had that work were called putters; they were occupied in taking
empty tubs to the men who hewed the coal, and in bringing away the full tubs, and that they
earned good wages: they had a shilling a score for the tubs they removed.

"I should think the poor ponies have a hard life of it," said Charlie. "Do they take the tubs
right away to the mouth of the pit?"

"No, they only go so far, then the engine pulls them to the shaft, and they are drawn up to
bank, to be emptied and sent down again."

"We seem to have come a long way," said Charlie.

"About a mile," answered Brownlee; "but we've worked a deal further out that way," pointing
to the left. "We're either under the sea or close at the edge, out there."

Charlie gave a little shudder. "Where is my work, please?" he asked.

"Oh, we've passed your place; the door we came through last is the one you have to take care
of. I'm just taking you round a bit, as you're new to it. Mind your head," he called, as they
turned up a low gallery to the right, and they both went along stooping. "Stop there," said
Brownlee, creeping along by himself a little further, and sitting on his heels opposite a wall
of bright coal. "There," he said, "how would you like to sit cramped up like this for six hours,
hewing coal, and hearing the stone above you crack like a gun, and move about as you work,
expecting every moment you'll have to run for your life--that is, if you have the chance? I
had a narrow escape last winter," he said, as he joined Charlie again; "two of us were working
together, and all of a sudden there was an awful crack, like a cannon going off. It was who
could scramble up and run quickest, I can tell you. It was my luck to be last, and down came
a tremendous piece; the end of it just dropped on my foot as I was running, and it held me
as fast as if a mountain had been on the top of me, although I was free all but my foot. None
of them durst venture to me for a good bit, for there was an awful noise going on round me,
and there I laid as fast as could be, expecting every moment would be my last."

"What dangerous work!" exclaimed Charlie. "I should think nobody durst do it if they didn't
know they had God to protect them and take care of them."

"I'll see you to your work now," said Brownlee, turning the subject. "Here we are," he said;
"do you see this seat behind the door? then all you've got to do is to sit here and pull that
rope that opens the door when the putters or any of the men want to come through. The boys
stay down twelve hours, but I'll see you again before I go up. It'll be lonely for you at first,"
he said, kindly.

"Rather," said Charlie; "but I must remember that I am not alone."

Brownlee looked at him inquiringly.

"I mean, you know, that we are never alone; that He is always with us," said Charlie, simply,
with an upward glance and movement of the head.

"Oh, aye," said Brownlee, hesitatingly, and moving off, as if he felt it was a subject he could
not say much upon.

It was strange how that thought clung to the miner--not alone; not alone! It haunted him, and
often as he worked he glanced uneasily over his shoulder into the darkness beyond, with a sort
of feeling that he was being watched--that there was a presence, an invisible something or
some one hovering near, and listening to his very thoughts.

It was quite a relief when a putter or any one came near that he could speak to. Hudson Brownlee
had known perfectly well ever since he was a child that "God is everywhere," but he had never
thought about it; he was realizing His presence for the first time, and it made him nervous
to feel that he was alone with God, who was powerful, and whom he had neglected.

We must now go back to Charlie. His duty, if it was dull and lonely, was simple and easily
attended to. He had opened the door for a great many boys and men, but he had not seen anything
more of Bob White. Charlie remembered he was an old enemy, and had often waylaid himself and
the other boys on their way to Mrs. Greenwell's class, and ridiculed them. His saucy, mocking
tongue made him the terror of most of the boys in the mine. He had had the run of London streets
for ten years, before his mother removed into the north, and was more than a match for most
of the north country boys in a battle of words.

CHAPTER IX.

NOT ALONE.

Charlie's morning had passed away pretty well, and he began to think it must be dinner time;
at any rate he felt hungry, so he sat down and looked to see what his mother had packed up
for his dinner. There was a nice little beefsteak pie, just about as much as he could eat,
and two or three of his favourite little round cakes to finish with; so Charlie in high glee,
spread the cloth they were wrapped in over his knees, said grace, asked himself very politely
if he would take a little pie, said thank you, and took the dish. He had eaten about half of
it, and was enjoying himself very much when who should he see coming along but Bob White. What
should he do? Should he try to wrap his dinner up and put it out of sight, or go on eating?
but before he could decide, Bob was upon him.

"Why," exclaimed Bob, pretending to start with surprise, "if here isn't the ladies' pet! and
getting his dinner too," said Bob, stooping down to look curiously in the dish that was on
Charlie's knee.

"Pie," he remarked, "and very good it looks; what else? Oh, cakes! well, I'm in luck's way
to-day, I am," breaking a piece off one and putting it in his mouth. "What's in the can?" he
asked, pointing to it with his foot.

"Water," answered Charlie, trying hard to keep his temper.

"Well, you're a one to know manners," said Bob, "never to offer one a place to sit down on--move
along. I'll hold the dish;" and suiting the action to the word, he snatched it up, and before
Charlie had recovered himself, the rest of the pie was half eaten.

"Give me that dish," said Charlie, trembling with passion.

Bob paused, and put on an injured countenance. "Can't you wait until I've finished? shouting
out for the dish like that."

Unseen by them both a gentleman was standing in the shade, watching the whole affair, and just
as Charlie was rushing upon Bob like a little whirlwind, he stood out in front of them in the
lamplight. Bob dropped the dish in his fright, and stood with his hands hanging down and his
mouth open, staring in dismay at Mr. Carlton, the viewer.

Mr. Carlton took out his note-book, and turning to one of the pages, quietly said, "This is
the third time, White, that I have found you quarrelling with and tantalizing boys younger
than yourself, and neglecting your work. Now this shall be the last time; you leave on Saturday
night."

All the impudence had faded out of Bob's face. "Oh, sir," he begged, clasping his hands in
his earnestness, "please look over it this once. What shall I do if you turn me off? I dare
not tell my mother; you know, sir, that she is ill, and what I earn is all we have. I deserve
it perhaps, sir, but she doesn't--just this once!" he pleaded.

Mr. Carlton felt some one touch his sleeve; it was Charlie. "I beg your pardon, sir," said
Charlie, in a low tone, "but will you please forgive him this time?"

Mr. Carlton looked at him with surprise. "Are you begging for him? have you forgiven him?"
he asked.

"Yes, sir," answered Charlie. "I am very sorry I lost my temper so. I have been well taught,
and perhaps he hasn't."

Mr. Carlton considered for a moment.

Bob could not hear what Charlie was saying, but he fancied from his manner that he was telling
his wrongs, and a sullen, angry expression spread over his face.

"Come here, White," said Mr. Carlton. "I have consented to look over your bad conduct once
more; but remember you owe it to this boy," putting his hand on Charlie's shoulder; "he has
pleaded for you; he has returned you good for evil: see that you are not ungrateful." He then
left them, after asking Charlie his name.

Bob stood still, feeling and looking very awkward. Charlie went up to him, and held out his
hand. "You'll shake hands and be friends, Bob, won't you?"

Bob shook hands shyly, and turned away to his work without speaking; but Charlie fancied he
saw tears in his eyes.

Soon after it was time for the men to leave. They came pouring out in all directions from the
workings of the mine, and Charlie was kept busy. Hudson Brownlee came nearly last.

"How do you get on?" he asked kindly.

"Oh, pretty well; I'm getting more used to it already."

"Good-bye," said Brownlee, taking a step forward, and then standing still. "What was it you
were saying about not being alone?" putting on a careless, off-hand tone.

"Oh," said Charlie, "I meant I should not feel lonely or afraid, because I knew God was with
me. I remember father reading out of the Bible, 'Fear not, for I am with thee;' and I know
it is true, don't you?"

"No," said Brownlee, thoughtfully, "I can't say that I do."

"If I had my Bible here, I think I could find the words directly."

"Ah," said Brownlee, "that's a book I don't know much about. You see I'm no scholar. I was
careless about learning when I was young, and what little I did know I have almost forgot.
It takes me such a while to spell out the words that I lose the meaning."

"What a pity!" exclaimed Charlie, "You see it's almost impossible to get on right at all without
the Bible, because God tells us in it what we are to do, and what we're not to do," he went
on impetuously. "I was just thinking, as we came along down here with our lamps, about that
text, 'Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.' If we had not had lamps
we should have been groping about in the dark, stumbling over things, knocking up against the
props, hurting ourselves, and losing our way; but our lamps showed us the right path, and how
to keep out of danger. And we should go groping and stumbling through the world in darkness,
too, falling into all sorts of sin and temptation, hurting our souls, and losing ourselves
altogether, if we had not the light of God's word to guide us."

"Where do you get all your learning from? you seem to know a deal for a boy," said Brownlee.

"Oh, father reads these things from the good book every day. I dare say he feels them comforting
to himself when he's in the pit. Besides, I've been to a Sunday school."

"Well, they are true," said Brownlee, thoughtfully; he held up his lamp and looked at it. "For
twenty years this has been the only sort of lamp I've troubled myself about, but please God,
if it's not too late----" Charlie could not hear the rest, for he waved his hand and followed
the other men.

At the end of the twelve hours Charlie was preparing to follow some men and boys to the shaft,
when Bob White made his appearance. "It's rather queer," said Bob, shyly, "finding your way
about here; will you go up with me?"

"Thank you," said Charlie heartily, setting off with him, and talking away as freely as he
could to put Bob at his ease.

You may be sure Charlie was very glad to get home and rest after he had told his father and
mother what he had seen and done. So ended his first day down the mine.

CHAPTER X.

A NEW FRIEND.

After the conversation with Brownlee about the Bible, Charlie took his pocket Bible down the
mine regularly; his father wished him to read a little every day at his dinner-time. He was
one of those people who never like to waste a minute, and in his dinner-time he managed generally
to have something to read that was worth reading. Bob was really grateful to Charlie for interfering
in his behalf, and lost no opportunity of showing it. It was astonishing how he improved: so
much good in him that had been lying dormant was called out under Charlie's better influence.
Sometimes he seemed half ashamed of his good behaviour, and would break out for a time into
the old reckless way; but one night on their way home Charlie was talking in his own loving
way about his dear father and mother, and their kindness to him; how his plans for being an
engineer had been put aside by his father's illness; how he hoped soon to get more wages for
their sakes, and so on, when in some unaccountable way Bob's whole nature seemed softened;
and as if he could not help it, he poured out to Charlie his home troubles and all his old
life; how he had fallen amongst bad companions, and grew up to be hardened and reckless, almost
without even a wish to be better. Sometimes, when he saw Charlie and the other boys going to
Mrs. Greenwell's class, looking so happy and clean and orderly, the wish that he was like them
would creep into his heart; but he drove it away, and called after them with mocking words.
All this and much more he told Charlie with tears streaming down his face, and his voice broken
by sobs.

It almost frightened Charlie to see mocking, reckless Bob give way so completely. He was just
wondering what he had better say to him, when Bob bid him good-night abruptly, and turned off home.

After that night Bob never again attempted to keep up his care-for-nothing-or-nobody tone before
Charlie. He generally brought his dinner now to eat beside Charlie. The first time the Bible
was brought out, when they had finished, which required a little courage at first, Bob got
up and sauntered away; the second time he sat still and whistled popular song tunes in a subdued
tone, while Charlie read to himself; the third time he sat quietly; the fourth day the Bible
was brought out he shuffled about uneasily, and at last said, "You may as well read out if
you must read; it's dull sitting here without anybody to speak to."

Charlie gladly agreed. "Let us read in turns," he said.

Bob did not object, for he read well, and was rather proud of it. After this the Bible reading
was an established custom, and Bob got very much interested as he read the history of Joseph,
Moses, and others. Hudson Brownlee, happening to pass one day, stopped to listen when he saw
how they were occupied, and soon a third was added regularly to the little party. After a parable
or any striking passage had been read they would each give their own idea of its meaning and
teaching, spending much thought upon it in their eagerness to give it in the best and clearest
way. Often during their work Hudson Brownlee, Bob, and Charlie too, would ponder over some
passage they had heard or read, comparing the different opinions upon it, applying it, thinking
it out, and turning it over in their mind, until some great truth would stand out from the
rest, fixing itself immoveably in their hearts and understandings. And so this study of the
Bible, begun without any real religious feeling (on Bob and Brownlee's part, at any rate),
led them to higher things--to a knowledge of God's holiness, of their own sin and unworthiness,
and their need of a Saviour.

But this was a work of time, and we must now go back a little in our history.

