THE DANCE

     Historic Illustrations of Dancing
        from 3300 B.C. to 1911 A.D.

                      BY
                 AN ANTIQUARY

                   LONDON
      JOHN BALE, SONS & DANIELSSON, LTD.
83-91, GREAT TITCHFIELD STREET, OXFORD STREET, W

            Respectfully dedicated
            to Dr. Eleanor Maxwell.

                    1911

PREFACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

This sketch of the iconography of the dance does not pretend to be a history of the subject,
except in the most elementary way. It may be taken as a summary of the history of posture;
a complete dance cannot be easily rendered in illustration.

The text is of the most elementary description; to go into the subject thoroughly would involve
years and volumes. The descriptions of the various historic dances or music are enormous subjects;
two authors alone have given 800 dances in four volumes.[Footnote: Thompson's complete collection
of 200 country dances performed at Court, Bath, Tunbridge, and all public assemblies, with
proper figures and directions to each set for the violin, German flute, and hautboy, 8s. 6d.
Printed for Charles and Samuel Thompson, St. Paul's Churchyard, London, where may be had the
yearly dances and minuets. Four volumes, each 200 dances. 1770-1773.]

It would have been interesting if some idea of the orchesography of the Egyptians and Greeks
could have been given; this art of describing dances much in the manner that music is written
is lost, and the attempts to revive it have been ineffective. The increasing speed of the action
since the days of Lulli would now render it almost impossible.

It is hoped that this work may be of some use as illustrating the costume, position and accessories
of the dance in various periods to those producing entertainments.

To the reader desirous of thoroughly studying the subject a bibliography is given at the end.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I

Egyptian, Assyrian, Hebrew, and Phoenician Dancing. The Ritual Dance of Egypt. Dancing Examples
from Tomb of Ur-ari-en-Ptah, 6th Dynasty, British Museum. Description of Dancing from Sir G.
Wilkinson; of the Egyptian Pipes and Hieroglyphics of Dancing, &c. Phoenician Round Dances,
from a Limestone Group found at Cyprus, and Bronze Patera from Idalium, Cyprus.

CHAPTER II

Greek Dancing. Bacchanalian Dance, by the Ceramic Painter Hieron. Description of some Greek
Dances, the Geranos, the Corybantium, the Hormos, &c. Dancing Bacchante from a Vase and from
Terra Cotta. The Hand-in-hand, and Panathenaeac Dance from Ceramic Ware. Military Dance from
Sculpture in Vatican, Greek Dancer with Castanets. Illustration of Cymbals and Pipes from the
British Museum. The Chorus. Greek Dancers and Tumblers.

CHAPTER III

Etruscan, South Italian and Roman Dancing. Illustrations from the Grotta dei Vasi, the Grotta
della Scimia, and the Grotta del Triclinio, Corneto. Funeral Dances from Albanella, Capua,
&c. Pompeii and the Baths of Constantino. The Dances of the Etruscans and South Italians. The
Roman, Dance of the Salii. The Bellicrepa. The social position of Dancing. The Chorus.

CHAPTER IV

Early English and Mediaeval Dancing to the 14th Century. Dancing in Churches and Religious
Dancing. The Gleemen's Dance. Military Dances. The Hornpipe. Tumbling and Jest Dances. Illustrations
of Gleemen's Dance, Hornpipe, Sword Dances, Tumbling and Various Comic Dances.

CHAPTER V

Society Dancing, the 15th to 18th Centuries. Out-of-door Dances. Chamber Dancing. Comic Dances.
The Ball. Illustrations from Italian 15th Century, German 15th and 16th Centuries, French 15th,
16th, 17th, English 15th, 16th and 18th Centuries Dancing.

CHAPTER VI

The Modern Theatre Dance: its Origin. Introduced into France from Italy. Under Henry III.,
IV., Louis XIII., XIV. Influence of Cardinals Richelieu and Mazarin. Foundation of the Academic
de Danse et de Musique. The Court Ballet. Molière. Corneille. Lalli, &c. The Theatre Ballet.
The Influence of Noverre. Its introduction into and its Present Condition in England, &c. Illustrations
of Mlles. de Camargo, Duvernay, Taglioni. Fanny Ellsler. Ferraris, Carlotta Grisi. Adeline
Genée. Anna Pavlova. Fédorova, &c. Various Eastern Examples.

       *       *       *       *       *

Historic Illustrations of Dancing.

CHAPTER I.

EGYPTIAN, ASSYRIAN, HEBREW AND PHOENICIAN DANCING.

In this work it is not necessary to worry the reader with speculations as to the origin of
dancing. There are other authorities easily accessible who have written upon this theme.

Dancing is probably one of the oldest arts. As soon as man was man he without doubt began to
gesticulate with face, body, and limbs. How long it took to develop bodily gesticulation into
an art no one can guess--perhaps a millennium.

In writing of dancing, one will therefore include those gesticulations or movements of the
body suggesting an idea, whether it be the slow movement of marching, or the rapid gallop,
even some of the movements that we commonly call acrobatic. It is not intended here to include
the more sensual movements of the East and the debased antique.

Generally the antique dances were connected with a religious ritual conceived to be acceptable
to the Gods. This connection between dancing and religious rites was common up to the 16th
century. It still continues in some countries.

In some of the earliest designs which have come down to us the dancers moved, as stars, hand
in hand round an altar, or person, representing the sun; either in a slow or stately method,
or with rapid trained gestures, according to the ritual performed.

Dancing, music and poetry were inseparable. Dancing is the poetry of motion, and its connection
with music, as the poetry of sound, occurs at all times. In our own day musical themes are
marked by forms originally dance times, as waltz time, gavotte time, minuet time, etc.

Amongst the earliest representations that are comprehensible, we have certain Egyptian paintings,
and some of these exhibit postures that evidently had even then a settled meaning, and were
a phrase in the sentences of the art. Not only were they settled at such an early period (B.C.
3000, fig. 1) but they appear to have been accepted and handed down to succeeding generations
(fig. 2), and what is remarkable in some countries, even to our own times. The accompanying
illustrations from Egypt and Greece exhibit what was evidently a traditional attitude. The
hand-in-hand dance is another of these.

The earliest accompaniments to dancing appear to have been the clapping of hands, the pipes,[Footnote:
Egyptian music appears to have been of a complicated character and the double pipe or flutes
were probably reeded, as with our clarionet. The left pipe had few stops and served as a sort
of hautboy; the right had many stops and was higher. The single pipe, (a) "The recorder" in
the British Museum, is a treble of 10-1/2 in. and is pentaphonic, like the Scotch scale; the
tenor (b) is 8-3/4 in. long and its present pitch--  the guitar, the tambourine, the castanets,
the cymbals, the tambour, and sometimes in the street, the drum.

The following account of Egyptian dancing is from Sir Gardiner Wilkinson's "Ancient Egypt"

"Fearing lest it should corrupt the manners of a people naturally lively and fond of gaiety,
and deeming it neither a necessary part of education nor becoming a person of sober habits,
the Egyptians forbade those of the higher classes to learn it as an amusement.

"The dresses of the females were light and of the finest texture, a loose flowing robe reaching
to the ankles, sometimes with a girdle.

