     Shame from our hearts
     Unworthy arts,
     The fraud designed, the purpose dark;
     And smite away
     The hands we lay
     Profanely on the sacred ark.

     To party claims
     And private aims,
     Reveal that august face of Truth,
     Whereto are given
     The age of heaven,
     The beauty of immortal youth.

     So shall our voice
     Of sovereign choice
     Swell the deep bass of duty done,
     And strike the key
     Of time to be,
     When God and man shall speak as one!

     1858.

FROM PERUGIA.

"The thing which has the most dissevered the people from the Pope,--the unforgivable thing,--the
breaking point between him and them,--has been the encouragement and promotion he gave to the
officer under whom were executed the slaughters of Perugia. That made the breaking point in
many honest hearts that had clung to him before."--HARRIET BEECHER STOWE'S Letters from Italy.

     The tall, sallow guardsmen their horsetails have spread,
     Flaming out in their violet, yellow, and red;
     And behind go the lackeys in crimson and buff,
     And the chamberlains gorgeous in velvet and ruff;
     Next, in red-legged pomp, come the cardinals forth,
     Each a lord of the church and a prince of the earth.

     What's this squeak of the fife, and this batter of drum
     Lo! the Swiss of the Church from Perugia come;
     The militant angels, whose sabres drive home
     To the hearts of the malcontents, cursed and abhorred,
     The good Father's missives, and "Thus saith the Lord!"
     And lend to his logic the point of the sword!

     O maids of Etruria, gazing forlorn
     O'er dark Thrasymenus, dishevelled and torn!
     O fathers, who pluck at your gray beards for shame!
     O mothers, struck dumb by a woe without name!
     Well ye know how the Holy Church hireling behaves,
     And his tender compassion of prisons and graves!

     There they stand, the hired stabbers, the blood-stains yet fresh,
     That splashed like red wine from the vintage of flesh;
     Grim instruments, careless as pincers and rack
     How the joints tear apart, and the strained sinews crack;
     But the hate that glares on them is sharp as their swords,
     And the sneer and the scowl print the air with fierce words!

     Off with hats, down with knees, shout your vivas like mad!
     Here's the Pope in his holiday righteousness clad,
     From shorn crown to toe-nail, kiss-worn to the quick,
     Of sainthood in purple the pattern and pick,
     Who the role of the priest and the soldier unites,
     And, praying like Aaron, like Joshua fights!

     Is this Pio Nono the gracious, for whom
     We sang our hosannas and lighted all Rome;
     With whose advent we dreamed the new era began
     When the priest should be human, the monk be a man?
     Ah, the wolf's with the sheep, and the fox with the fowl,
     When freedom we trust to the crosier and cowl!

     Stand aside, men of Rome! Here's a hangman-faced Swiss--
     (A blessing for him surely can't go amiss)--
     Would kneel down the sanctified slipper to kiss.
     Short shrift will suffice him,--he's blest beyond doubt;
     But there 's blood on his hands which would scarcely wash out,
     Though Peter himself held the baptismal spout!

     Make way for the next! Here's another sweet son
     What's this mastiff-jawed rascal in epaulets done?
     He did, whispers rumor, (its truth God forbid!)
     At Perugia what Herod at Bethlehem did.
     And the mothers? Don't name them! these humors of war
     They who keep him in service must pardon him for.

     Hist! here's the arch-knave in a cardinal's hat,
     With the heart of a wolf, and the stealth of a cat
     (As if Judas and Herod together were rolled),
     Who keeps, all as one, the Pope's conscience and gold,
     Mounts guard on the altar, and pilfers from thence,
     And flatters St. Peter while stealing his pence!

     Who doubts Antonelli? Have miracles ceased
     When robbers say mass, and Barabbas is priest?
     When the Church eats and drinks, at its mystical board,
     The true flesh and blood carved and shed by its sword,
     When its martyr, unsinged, claps the crown on his head,
     And roasts, as his proxy, his neighbor instead!

     There! the bells jow and jangle the same blessed way
     That they did when they rang for Bartholomew's day.
     Hark! the tallow-faced monsters, nor women nor boys,
     Vex the air with a shrill, sexless horror of noise.
     Te Deum laudamus! All round without stint
     The incense-pot swings with a taint of blood in 't!

     And now for the blessing! Of little account,
     You know, is the old one they heard on the Mount.
     Its giver was landless, His raiment was poor,
     No jewelled tiara His fishermen wore;
     No incense, no lackeys, no riches, no home,
     No Swiss guards!  We order things better at Rome.

     So bless us the strong hand, and curse us the weak;
     Let Austria's vulture have food for her beak;
     Let the wolf-whelp of Naples play Bomba again,
     With his death-cap of silence, and halter, and chain;
     Put reason, and justice, and truth under ban;
     For the sin unforgiven is freedom for man!

     1858.

ITALY.

     ACROSS the sea I heard the groans
     Of nations in the intervals
     Of wind and wave. Their blood and bones
     Cried out in torture, crushed by thrones,
     And sucked by priestly cannibals.

     I dreamed of Freedom slowly gained
     By martyr meekness, patience, faith,
     And lo! an athlete grimly stained,
     With corded muscles battle-strained,
     Shouting it from the fields of death!

     I turn me, awe-struck, from the sight,
     Among the clamoring thousands mute,
     I only know that God is right,
     And that the children of the light
     Shall tread the darkness under foot.

     I know the pent fire heaves its crust,
     That sultry skies the bolt will form
     To smite them clear; that Nature must
     The balance of her powers adjust,
     Though with the earthquake and the storm.

     God reigns, and let the earth rejoice!
     I bow before His sterner plan.
     Dumb are the organs of my choice;
     He speaks in battle's stormy voice,
     His praise is in the wrath of man!

     Yet, surely as He lives, the day
     Of peace He promised shall be ours,
     To fold the flags of war, and lay
     Its sword and spear to rust away,
     And sow its ghastly fields with flowers!

     1860.

FREEDOM IN BRAZIL.

     WITH clearer light, Cross of the South, shine forth
     In blue Brazilian skies;
     And thou, O river, cleaving half the earth
     From sunset to sunrise,

     From the great mountains to the Atlantic waves
     Thy joy's long anthem pour.
     Yet a few years (God make them less!) and slaves
     Shall shame thy pride no more.
     No fettered feet thy shaded margins press;
     But all men shall walk free
     Where thou, the high-priest of the wilderness,
     Hast wedded sea to sea.

     And thou, great-hearted ruler, through whose mouth
     The word of God is said,
     Once more, "Let there be light!"--Son of the South,
     Lift up thy honored head,
     Wear unashamed a crown by thy desert
     More than by birth thy own,
     Careless of watch and ward; thou art begirt
     By grateful hearts alone.
     The moated wall and battle-ship may fail,
     But safe shall justice prove;
     Stronger than greaves of brass or iron mail
     The panoply of love.

     Crowned doubly by man's blessing and God's grace,
     Thy future is secure;
     Who frees a people makes his statue's place
     In Time's Valhalla sure.
     Lo! from his Neva's banks the Scythian Czar
     Stretches to thee his hand,
     Who, with the pencil of the Northern star,
     Wrote freedom on his land.
     And he whose grave is holy by our calm
     And prairied Sangamon,
     From his gaunt hand shall drop the martyr's palm
     To greet thee with "Well done!"

     And thou, O Earth, with smiles thy face make sweet,
     And let thy wail be stilled,
     To hear the Muse of prophecy repeat
     Her promise half fulfilled.
     The Voice that spake at Nazareth speaks still,
     No sound thereof hath died;
     Alike thy hope and Heaven's eternal will
     Shall yet be satisfied.
     The years are slow, the vision tarrieth long,
     And far the end may be;
     But, one by one, the fiends of ancient wrong
     Go out and leave thee free.

     1867.

AFTER ELECTION.

     THE day's sharp strife is ended now,
     Our work is done, God knoweth how!
     As on the thronged, unrestful town
     The patience of the moon looks down,
     I wait to hear, beside the wire,
     The voices of its tongues of fire.

     Slow, doubtful, faint, they seem at first
     Be strong, my heart, to know the worst!
     Hark! there the Alleghanies spoke;
     That sound from lake and prairie broke,
     That sunset-gun of triumph rent
     The silence of a continent!

     That signal from Nebraska sprung,
     This, from Nevada's mountain tongue!
     Is that thy answer, strong and free,
     O loyal heart of Tennessee?
     What strange, glad voice is that which calls
     From Wagner's grave and Sumter's walls?

     From Mississippi's fountain-head
     A sound as of the bison's tread!
     There rustled freedom's Charter Oak
     In that wild burst the Ozarks spoke!
     Cheer answers cheer from rise to set
     Of sun. We have a country yet!

     The praise, O God, be thine alone!
     Thou givest not for bread a stone;
     Thou hast not led us through the night
     To blind us with returning light;
     Not through the furnace have we passed,
     To perish at its mouth at last.

     O night of peace, thy flight restrain!
     November's moon, be slow to wane!
     Shine on the freedman's cabin floor,
     On brows of prayer a blessing pour;
     And give, with full assurance blest,
     The weary heart of Freedom rest!

     1868.

DISARMAMENT.

     "PUT up the sword!" The voice of Christ once more
     Speaks, in the pauses of the cannon's roar,
     O'er fields of corn by fiery sickles reaped
     And left dry ashes; over trenches heaped
     With nameless dead; o'er cities starving slow
     Under a rain of fire; through wards of woe
     Down which a groaning diapason runs
     From tortured brothers, husbands, lovers, sons
     Of desolate women in their far-off homes,
     Waiting to hear the step that never comes!
     O men and brothers! let that voice be heard.
     War fails, try peace; put up the useless sword!

     Fear not the end. There is a story told
     In Eastern tents, when autumn nights grow cold,
     And round the fire the Mongol shepherds sit
     With grave responses listening unto it
     Once, on the errands of his mercy bent,
     Buddha, the holy and benevolent,
     Met a fell monster, huge and fierce of look,
     Whose awful voice the hills and forests shook.
     "O son of peace!" the giant cried, "thy fate
     Is sealed at last, and love shall yield to hate."
     The unarmed Buddha looking, with no trace
     Of fear or anger, in the monster's face,
     In pity said: "Poor fiend, even thee I love."
     Lo! as he spake the sky-tall terror sank
     To hand-breadth size; the huge abhorrence shrank
     Into the form and fashion of a dove;
     And where the thunder of its rage was heard,
     Circling above him sweetly sang the bird
     "Hate hath no harm for love," so ran the song;
     "And peace unweaponed conquers every wrong!"

     1871.

THE PROBLEM.

     I.
     NOT without envy Wealth at times must look
     On their brown strength who wield the reaping-hook
     And scythe, or at the forge-fire shape the plough
     Or the steel harness of the steeds of steam;
     All who, by skill and patience, anyhow
     Make service noble, and the earth redeem
     From savageness. By kingly accolade
     Than theirs was never worthier knighthood made.
     Well for them, if, while demagogues their vain
     And evil counsels proffer, they maintain
     Their honest manhood unseduced, and wage
     No war with Labor's right to Labor's gain
     Of sweet home-comfort, rest of hand and brain,
     And softer pillow for the head of Age.

     II.
     And well for Gain if it ungrudging yields
     Labor its just demand; and well for Ease
     If in the uses of its own, it sees
     No wrong to him who tills its pleasant fields
     And spreads the table of its luxuries.
     The interests of the rich man and the poor
     Are one and same, inseparable evermore;
     And, when scant wage or labor fail to give
     Food, shelter, raiment, wherewithal to live,
     Need has its rights, necessity its claim.
     Yea, even self-wrought misery and shame
     Test well the charity suffering long and kind.
     The home-pressed question of the age can find
     No answer in the catch-words of the blind
     Leaders of blind. Solution there is none
     Save in the Golden Rule of Christ alone.

     1877.

OUR COUNTRY.

Read at Woodstock, Conn., July 4,1883.

     WE give thy natal day to hope,
     O Country of our love and prayer I
     Thy way is down no fatal slope,
     But up to freer sun and air.

     Tried as by furnace-fires, and yet
     By God's grace only stronger made,
     In future tasks before thee set
     Thou shalt not lack the old-time aid.

     The fathers sleep, but men remain
     As wise, as true, and brave as they;
     Why count the loss and not the gain?
     The best is that we have to-day.

     Whate'er of folly, shame, or crime,
     Within thy mighty bounds transpires,
     With speed defying space and time
     Comes to us on the accusing wires;

     While of thy wealth of noble deeds,
     Thy homes of peace, thy votes unsold,
     The love that pleads for human needs,
     The wrong redressed, but half is told!

     We read each felon's chronicle,
     His acts, his words, his gallows-mood;
     We know the single sinner well
     And not the nine and ninety good.

     Yet if, on daily scandals fed,
     We seem at times to doubt thy worth,
     We know thee still, when all is said,
     The best and dearest spot on earth.

     From the warm Mexic Gulf, or where
     Belted with flowers Los Angeles
     Basks in the semi-tropic air,
     To where Katahdin's cedar trees

     Are dwarfed and bent by Northern winds,
     Thy plenty's horn is yearly filled;
     Alone, the rounding century finds
     Thy liberal soil by free hands tilled.

     A refuge for the wronged and poor,
     Thy generous heart has borne the blame
     That, with them, through thy open door,
     The old world's evil outcasts came.

     But, with thy just and equal rule,
     And labor's need and breadth of lands,
     Free press and rostrum, church and school,
     Thy sure, if slow, transforming hands

     Shall mould even them to thy design,
     Making a blessing of the ban;
     And Freedom's chemistry combine
     The alien elements of man.

     The power that broke their prison bar
     And set the dusky millions free,
     And welded in the flame of war
     The Union fast to Liberty,

     Shall it not deal with other ills,
     Redress the red man's grievance, break
     The Circean cup which shames and kills,
     And Labor full requital make?

     Alone to such as fitly bear
     Thy civic honors bid them fall?
     And call thy daughters forth to share
     The rights and duties pledged to all?

     Give every child his right of school,
     Merge private greed in public good,
     And spare a treasury overfull
     The tax upon a poor man's food?

     No lack was in thy primal stock,
     No weakling founders builded here;
     Thine were the men of Plymouth Rock,
     The Huguenot and Cavalier;

     And they whose firm endurance gained
     The freedom of the souls of men,
     Whose hands, unstained with blood, maintained
     The swordless commonwealth of Penn.

     And thine shall be the power of all
     To do the work which duty bids,
     And make the people's council hall
     As lasting as the Pyramids!

     Well have thy later years made good
     Thy brave-said word a century back,
     The pledge of human brotherhood,
     The equal claim of white and black.

     That word still echoes round the world,
     And all who hear it turn to thee,
     And read upon thy flag unfurled
     The prophecies of destiny.

     Thy great world-lesson all shall learn,
     The nations in thy school shall sit,
     Earth's farthest mountain-tops shall burn
     With watch-fires from thy own uplit.

     Great without seeking to be great
     By fraud or conquest, rich in gold,
     But richer in the large estate
     Of virtue which thy children hold,

     With peace that comes of purity
     And strength to simple justice due,
     So runs our loyal dream of thee;
     God of our fathers! make it true.

     O Land of lands! to thee we give
     Our prayers, our hopes, our service free;
     For thee thy sons shall nobly live,
     And at thy need shall die for thee!

ON THE BIG HORN.

In the disastrous battle on the Big Horn River, in which General Custer and his entire force
were slain, the chief Rain-in-the-Face was one of the fiercest leaders of the Indians. In Longfellow's
poem on the massacre, these lines will be remembered:--

          "Revenge!" cried Rain-in-the-Face,
          "Revenge upon all the race
          Of the White Chief with yellow hair!"
          And the mountains dark and high
          From their crags reechoed the cry
          Of his anger and despair.

He is now a man of peace; and the agent at Standing Rock, Dakota, writes, September 28, 1886:
"Rain-in-the-Face is very anxious to go to Hampton. I fear he is too old, but he desires very
much to go." The Southern Workman, the organ of General Armstrong's Industrial School at Hampton,
Va., says in a late number:--

"Rain-in-the-Face has applied before to come to Hampton, but his age would exclude him from
the school as an ordinary student. He has shown himself very much in earnest about it, and
is anxious, all say, to learn the better ways of life. It is as unusual as it is striking to
see a man of his age, and one who has had such an experience, willing to give up the old way,
and put himself in the position of a boy and a student."

     THE years are but half a score,
     And the war-whoop sounds no more
     With the blast of bugles, where
     Straight into a slaughter pen,
     With his doomed three hundred men,
     Rode the chief with the yellow hair.

     O Hampton, down by the sea!
     What voice is beseeching thee
     For the scholar's lowliest place?
     Can this be the voice of him
     Who fought on the Big Horn's rim?
     Can this be Rain-in-the-Face?

     His war-paint is washed away,
     His hands have forgotten to slay;
     He seeks for himself and his race
     The arts of peace and the lore
     That give to the skilled hand more
     Than the spoils of war and chase.

     O chief of the Christ-like school!
     Can the zeal of thy heart grow cool
     When the victor scarred with fight
     Like a child for thy guidance craves,
     And the faces of hunters and braves
     Are turning to thee for light?

     The hatchet lies overgrown
     With grass by the Yellowstone,
     Wind River and Paw of Bear;
     And, in sign that foes are friends,
     Each lodge like a peace-pipe sends
     Its smoke in the quiet air.

     The hands that have done the wrong
     To right the wronged are strong,
     And the voice of a nation saith
     "Enough of the war of swords,
     Enough of the lying words
     And shame of a broken faith!"

     The hills that have watched afar
     The valleys ablaze with war
     Shall look on the tasselled corn;
     And the dust of the grinded grain,
     Instead of the blood of the slain,
     Shall sprinkle thy banks, Big Horn!

     The Ute and the wandering Crow
     Shall know as the white men know,
     And fare as the white men fare;
     The pale and the red shall be brothers,
     One's rights shall be as another's,
     Home, School, and House of Prayer!

     O mountains that climb to snow,
     O river winding below,
     Through meadows by war once trod,
     O wild, waste lands that await
     The harvest exceeding great,
     Break forth into praise of God!

     1887.

NOTES

Note 1, page 18. The reader may, perhaps, call to mind the beautiful sonnet of William Wordsworth,
addressed to Toussaint L'Ouverture, during his confinement in France.

     "Toussaint!--thou most unhappy man of men
     Whether the whistling rustic tends his plough
     Within thy hearing, or thou liest now
     Buried in some deep dungeon's earless den;
     O miserable chieftain!--where and when
     Wilt thou find patience?--Yet, die not, do thou
     Wear rather in thy bonds a cheerful brow;
     Though fallen thyself, never to rise again,
     Live and take comfort. Thou hast left behind
     Powers that will work for thee; air, earth, and skies,--
     There's not a breathing of the common wind
     That will forget thee; thou hast great allies.
     Thy friends are exultations, agonies,
     And love, and man's unconquerable mind."

Note 2, page 67. The Northern author of the Congressional rule against receiving petitions
of the people on the subject of Slavery.

Note 3, page 88. There was at the time when this poem was written an Association in Liberty
County, Georgia, for the religious instruction of negroes. One of their annual reports contains
an address by the Rev. Josiah Spry Law, in which the following passage occurs: "There is a
growing interest in this community in the religious instruction of negroes. There is a conviction
that religious instruction promotes the quiet and order of the people, and the pecuniary interest
of the owners."

Note 4, page 117. The book-establishment of the Free-Will Baptists in Dover was refused the
act of incorporation by the New Hampshire Legislature, for the reason that the newspaper organ
of that sect and its leading preachers favored abolition.

Note 5, page 118. The senatorial editor of the Belknap Gazette all along manifested a peculiar
horror of "niggers" and "nigger parties."

Note 6, page 118. The justice before whom Elder Storrs was brought for preaching abolition
on a writ drawn by Hon. M. N., Jr., of Pittsfield. The sheriff served the writ while the elder
was praying.

Note 7, page 118. The academy at Canaan, N. H., received one or two colored scholars, and was
in consequence dragged off into a swamp by Democratic teams.

Note 8, page 119. "Papers and memorials touching the subject of slavery shall be laid on the
table without reading, debate, or reference."  So read the gag-law, as it was called, introduced
in the House by Mr. Atherton.

Note 9, page 120. The Female Anti-Slavery Society, at its first meeting in Concord, was assailed
with stones and brickbats.

Note 10, page 168. The election of Charles Sumner to the United States Senate "followed hard
upon" the rendition of the fugitive Sims by the United States officials and the armed police
of Boston.

