Under all these circumstances, it is in vain that I endeavour to make that discovery which
your excellency assures me requires only a moment's reflection: "Au reste" (your excellency
says), "que V'e. Ex'ce. réfléchisse un moment, celle trouverá que le Gouvernement de S.M.I.
simplement et uniquement pour faire plaisir à V'e. Ex'ce. á s'est attiré une enormé responsabilité
dans les engagemens pris avec V'e. Ex'ce." It is not one moment only nor one hour that I have
reflected on these words, but without making the promised discovery, or any probable guess
at your excellency's meaning. I would therefore entreat your excellency to tell me what it
is that the Government has engaged to do. All that I know is they have engaged to pay me a
certain sum per annum as commander-in-chief of the squadron; and this engagement, I admit,
they have so far fulfilled. But the amount is little more than is received by the commander-in-chief
of an English squadron; and is it not found in that service, and in every regular or established
naval service, that for one officer qualified for any considerable command there are probably
ten that are not qualified; though all have necessarily been reared and paid at the national
expense? Whereas, in this case, so far from your having been at the expense of money in order
to procure a few that are effective, you obtained at once, without any previous cost whatever,
the services of myself and the officers that accompanied me, all of whom were experienced and
efficient. Now, the united amount of the salaries you are engaged to pay to myself and the
officers whom I brought with me does not exceed 25,000 dollars a year. To speak of this as
an "enormous responsibility" as an empire, requires more than a "moment's reflection" to be
clearly understood. The Government did, however, engage to pay to myself and my brother officers
and seamen the value of our captures from the enemy, pursuant to the practice of all maritime
belligerents, but this engagement has not hitherto been fulfilled. If, however, your excellency
admits the responsibility of the Government to fulfil this engagement also, I am still equally
at a loss to conceive in what sense that responsibility can be considered enormous, inasmuch
as these prizes were not the property of the state, nor of individuals belonging to this nation,
but were the property of Portugal, with whom this nation was and is engaged in lawful war.
The payment, therefore, of the value of these prizes to the captors, supposing even the full
value to be paid, does not in effect take one penny out of the national treasury, or out of
the pocket of any Brazilian. If it be false--and your excellency appears to scout the idea--that
any danger exists of having to pay twice for these prizes; if there really is no danger of
being compelled to purchase peace with a defeated enemy by restoring them their forfeited property--it
follows that the responsibility of the Government in fulfilling its engagement with the captors
is so far from being enormous, that it is literally nothing. How the fulfilment of a lawful
engagement by the simple act of paying over to the squadron the value of its prizes taken in
time of war from the foreign enemies of the state (such payment occasioning no expense, and
no loss to the state itself) can be attended with an enormous responsibility, I am utterly
unable to comprehend. So far as the engagements of the Government with me, or with the captors
in general of the Portuguese prizes, are of a pecuniary nature, they appear to me to lay no
great weight of responsibility on the herculean shoulders of this vast empire. And it is only
in a pecuniary sense that I can conceive it to be possible for your excellency to have thought
of complaining of the responsibility attending the fulfilment of the engagements of the Government
with me.

It is no less difficult to comprehend how this supposed enormous responsibility has been incurred,
"simplement et uniquement pour faire plaisir" to me; and it is still more difficult to comprehend
how it happens that your excellency, "after all that you have heard and seen" (après ce que
j'ai entendu et vu), should be at a loss to know in what manner I am to be contented (je ne
saurais pas dequelle maniére on puisse vous contenter). If, indeed, your excellency imagines
that I ought to be contented with honorary distinctions alone, however highly I may prize them
as the free gift of his Imperial Majesty; if your excellency is of opinion that I ought with
"remercimens et satisfaction" to put up with those honours in lieu of those stipulated substantial
rewards, which even those very honours render more necessary; if your excellency thinks that
I ought, like the dog in the fable, to resign the substance for a grasp at the shadow; if this
is all that your excellency knows on the subject of giving me content, it is then very true
that your excellency does not know in what manner it is to be done. But if, "after all that
your excellency has heard and seen," you would be pleased to render yourself conversant with
those written engagements under which I was induced to enter into the service, all that your
excellency and the rest of the ministers and council of his Imperial Majesty would then have
to do in order to content me to the full, would be to desist from evading the performance of
those engagements, and to cause them at once to be fully and honourably fulfilled. And I do
believe that my "Correspondance Officielle une fais rendue publique, en faira foi;" for I am
not conscious that I have ever called on the Government to incur one farthing of expense on
my account beyond the fulfilment of their written engagements, which were the same as those
which I had with Chili, which were formed precisely on the practice of England. There was,
indeed, a verbal and conditional engagement with the late ministers that certain losses which
I might incur in consequence of leaving the service of Chili should be made good;[A] and the
question as to the obligation of fulfilling that engagement I submitted (in my letter of the
6th of March to the Minister of Marine) to the consideration of their successors. It will be
fortunate for me if this should prove to be one of those "ill-understood verbal transactions"
which your excellency assures me the present ministers and council always decide in my favour.
I shall not in that case be backward to receive the benefit of the decision with "thanks and
satisfaction;" but I am willing to resign it rather than it should add an overwhelming weight
to that "enormous responsibility" which your excellency complains has already been incurred
with a view to my contentment. I repeat that I have never asked for more than I possessed in
Chili, or than any officer of the same rank is entitled to in England; though British officers
have heretofore received in the service of Portugal double the amount of their English pay;
and though the burning climate of Brazil is injurious to health, while those of Chili and Portugal
are salubrious. Your excellency, therefore, is perfectly welcome to publish the whole of my
official correspondence, because instead of proving, as your excellency asserts, the great
difficulty of contenting me, it would go far to prove the much greater difficulty of inducing
those with whom I have to do to take any one step for that purpose.

[Footnote A: As the Brazilian Government had obtained possession of a new corvette, named the
Maria de Gloria, which cost the Government of Chili 90,000 dollars, without reimbursing to
that State one single farthing; and by the said act had deprived Lord Cochrane of the benefit
he would have derived, as commander-in-chief, from the services of that ship in the Pacific,
the non-fulfilment of this engagement seems the more unjust.]

I confess, however, that in order to content me effectually it is necessary to fulfil not only
all written engagements with myself individually, but generally with all the officers and seamen
with whom, while I hold the command, I consider myself identified; and the more particularly
because, in my own firm reliance on the good faith of the Government, I did in some sort become
responsible for that good faith to my brother officers and seamen. But with whom, I put it
to your excellency, has good faith been kept? Is it not notorious that previous to the departure
of the expedition to Bahia, declarations were made to the seamen in writing by the late Minister
of Marine, through my medium, and in printed proclamations, that their dues should be paid
with all possible regularity, and all their arrears discharged immediately on their return?
And is not your excellency aware that specific contracts were entered into by the accredited
agent of his Imperial Majesty in England, with a number of officers and seamen, who, in consequence,
were induced to quit their native country and enter into the employ of his Imperial Majesty?
Can it be denied that these declarations and contracts, written and printed, were known to,
and are actually in the possession of the ministers, or in the hands of the officers of the
pay department, and yet is it not true that they were neglected to be fulfilled for a period
of upwards of three months after the return of the Pedro Primiero; and was not the tardy fulfilment
which at length took place procured by my incessant representations and remonstrances?

Permit me also to ask whether the good effects of prompt payment were not illustrated on the
arrival of the frigates Nitherohy and Caroline, which happened just at the period I had succeeded
in procuring payment to be made. Was it not in consequence of immediate payment that the greater
part of the English crew of the Nitherohy remained quietly on board, and are now actually engaged
on an important service to his Imperial Majesty? And, on the other hand, is it not equally
true that the English seamen of the Pedro Primiero were so disheartened and disgusted with
the long delay which in their case had occurred, and the manifest bad faith which had been
evinced, that by far the greater part of them actually abandoned the ship? And generally, is
it not true that the violations of promise, the obstructions of justice, and the arbitrary
acts of severity, have produced dissatisfaction and irritation in the minds of the officers
and seamen, and done infinite prejudice to the service of his Imperial Majesty and to the interests
and prospects of the empire?

Can it be denied that the treatment to which the officers are exposed is in the highest degree
cruel and unjust? Have they not in many instances been confined in a fortress or prison-ship
without being told who is their accuser or what is the accusation? And are they not kept for
many months at a time in that cruel state of suspense and restraint without the means or opportunity
of justification or defence? Have not some of them while incarcerated in the fortress of the
Island of Cobras been deprived of their pay for a great length of time, and even denied the
provisions necessary for their subsistence? And if, after all, they are brought to trial, are
not their judges composed of the natives of a nation with whom they are at war? Is it possible
that English, or other foreign officers in the service, can be satisfied with such a system?
Can your excellency entertain a doubt, that open accusation, prompt trial, unsuspected justice,
and speedy punishment, if merited, are essential to the good government of a naval service?
Nay, is it possible that your excellency should not know that the system of government in the
naval service of Portugal is the most wretched in the world, and consequently the last that
ought to have been adopted for the naval service of Brazil?

And here I would respectfully ask your excellency whether you know of any one thing recommended
by me for the benefit of the naval service being complied with? Have the laws been revised
to adapt them to the better government of the service? Has a corps of marine artillery been
formed and taught their duty? Have young gentlemen intended for officers been sent on board
to learn their profession? Have young men been enlisted and sent on board to be bred up as
seamen? Or has any encouragement been given to the employment of Brazilians in the commerce
of the coast?[A]

[Footnote A: It was the policy of Portugal to navigate the coasting-trade of Brazil by slaves;
and that of Spain to allow none but Indians to exercise the trade of fishermen on the shores
of their South American colonies.]

With regard to those difficulties, delays, and other impediments of which I have complained
as existing in the arsenal and other offices, and which your excellency supposes me to have
represented as being caused, or at least tolerated, by the minister, and which you are pleased
to characterise as "tout a fait imaginaires, et n'ayant d'outré source que l'ambition sordide
de quelque intrigant," I shall not now enter into them again at any length, as much that I
have already written tends to refute your excellency's notions on the subject. That such abuses
do really exist I have proved beyond the power of contradiction; and that they are at least
tolerated by those--whoever they may be--who possess without exercising the means of preventing,
does not require the ingenuity of an "intrigant" to discover, as the fact is self-evident.
I cannot, therefore, admit that either my complaints or suspicions are "tout a fait imaginaires,"
or that they are "des petitesses," as your excellency is pleased contemptuously to term them;
but whatever they are, they originate in my own observation, without any assistance from the
spectacles of an "intrigant," with which I am so gratuitously accommodated by your excellency.

In still further proof, however, of the real existence of the evils in question, I may just
observe that since the return of the Pedro Primiero, that ship has been kept in constant disorder
by the delay in commencing and the idle and negligent mode of executing even the trifling alterations
in the channels, which were necessary to enable the rigging to be set up, and which, after
the lapse of upwards of five months, is now scarcely finished, though it might have been accomplished
in forty-eight hours. Even the time of caulking was spun out to a period nearly as long as
was occupied last year in the accomplishment of that thorough repair which the ship then underwent;
and the painting is far from being completed after sixteen or eighteen days' labour, though
a British ship of war is usually painted in a day. Even my own cabin is in such a state that
when I am on board I have no place to sit down in. All these things may appear to your excellency
as "des petitesses," or even "tout a fait imaginaires," but to me they appear matters of a
serious nature, injurious and disgraceful to the service.

