"Oh, little one, I could not," said grandmamma; "I have not been out for months, and I don't
know where my things are. I don't think I can go out to-day. It does me almost as much good
to see your bright face."

"You must come out, grandmamma; it's no use making excuses," said the young lady; and so the
old lady gave in, as everybody did to this sunshiny little woman.

As soon as the two young Mrs. Mice heard the doors of the wardrobe opened, they scampered away
as fast as they could. The bonnet was taken out, and then the muff, and you can think what
a scene there was when the nasty hairless little mice tumbled out, and they found how utterly
destroyed both bonnet and muff were.

That was the last of the Mouse family. The old lady moved into another room the next day. Her
old room was cleared of furniture, the mouse-holes stopped up, a cat put in at night, and a
bull-terrier by day, and traps of all kinds. Every mouse was killed, and not a single one from
any other part of the house had courage to go into that room after such a tragedy.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Raven Stone.=--In Germany a superstition prevails that if the eggs are taken from a raven's
nest, boiled, and replaced, the old raven will bring a root or stone to the nest, which he
fetches from the sea. This "raven stone" confers great fortune on its owner, and has the power
of rendering him invisible when worn on the arm. The stone is said to make the nest itself
invisible; it must be sought with the aid of a mirror. In Pomerania and Rügen the method is
somewhat different. The parent birds must have attained the age of one hundred years, and the
would-be possessor of the precious "stone" must climb up and kill one of the young ravens.
Then the aggressor descends, taking careful note of the tree. The old raven immediately returns
with the stone, which he puts in the dead bird's beak, and thereupon both tree and nest become
invisible. The man, however, feels for the tree, and on reaching the nest, he carries off the
stone in triumph. The Swabian peasantry maintain that young ravens are nourished solely by
the dew from heaven during the first nine days of their existence. As they are naked, and of
a light color, the old birds do not believe that they are their progeny, and consequently neglect
to feed them; but they occasionally cast a glance at the nest, and when the young ones begin
to show a little black down on their breasts, by the tenth day, the parents bring them the
first carrion.

LETTER FROM A LITTLE GIRL ABOUT "HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE."

  NEWPORT, RHODE ISLAND, November 6, 1879.

     MR. EDITOR,--I don't know who to put at the head of this letter,
     because I don't know your first name. I wonder if it is Uncle John.

     Papa found me reading what he called a "trash paper" the other day,
     and he said he would take a good paper for me if I would not read
     any more of that kind of trash; and he said you was going to print
     a nice paper for young folks, and this morning he brought one
     home--the very first number; but he said he was disappointed in the
     size of it, and that it was not quite half so big as an ordinary
     paper at four cents, and I am afraid he will not take it for me;
     but mamma says if I wrote to you perhaps you could give me some
     good reason for the paper being smaller than papa expected, so that
     he will keep his promise, for I like the paper very much, and I
     have read about the "Brave Swiss Boy," and so has father; and he
     says it is better than the kind of paper they throw in the
     door--"to be continued." So please tell us why your paper is not so
     big as the "trash papers," as father calls them, and I will be very
     thankful.

  LIZZIE M. D.

There are several reasons why Harper's Young People is not as large as the journals which you
call "trash" papers. In the first place, Harper's Young People is very carefully printed on
extra fine paper, which make the type and illustrations look so clear and beautiful. And then
a very large price is paid to the artists who draw the pictures, to the engravers who reproduce
them on wood, and to the authors who contribute the reading matter which you find so interesting.
The picture of "The Tournament," for instance, on the first page of the preceding number, cost
over one hundred and fifty dollars for drawing and engraving. Some of the pictures will cost
even more than that. If Young People was a larger weekly paper, and just as good in every respect
as it is now, the price would necessarily be larger; and then some of our young readers might
be deprived of the pleasure of having it.

Harper's Young People comes out every Tuesday; and if you read all the stories, poems, etc.,
and make out the puzzles and enigmas, you will find that it will take all the time you ought
to spare from study, play, and other callings. We mean to make Young People the very best weekly
for children in the world, so that they will always be glad to see it, as they would welcome
a visit from a pleasant companion.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following letters have been received in reply to the question, in the first number of Young
People, as to the originator of cheap postage.

  NEW YORK CITY.

     The founder of the system of prepaying postage by placing a small
     label on one corner of the letter was Sir Rowland Hill. It was
     first advocated by him in 1837, and stamps were first used by the
     British Post-office May 6, 1840. They were introduced in the United
     States in 1847. Sir Rowland was born at Kidderminster in 1795, and
     died at Hampstead August 27, 1879, at the age of eighty-four.

  WALTER J. LEE.

  BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.

     In answer to your question in the first number of Young People,
     asking if any one knew the name of the man who first thought of
     cheap postage, I would say that it was Sir Rowland Hill, of
     England. He died a few months ago at Hampstead, near London, and
     was buried in Westminster Abbey.

     The answer to your letter puzzle in the same number is
     "Longfellow."

  F. B. HESSE (11 years old).

Clara S. Gardiner, St. Louis, Missouri, sends a similar reply.

Correct answers to letter puzzle have also been received from Albert E. Seibert, New York city,
and Annie B. Stephens, Elizabeth, New Jersey. Several correct answers to the mathematical puzzles
have been sent in, and will be published as soon as other correspondents have had time to try
their skill.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOUIS B. PARSONS, Montclair, New Jersey.--If you will put a very little oil of cloves, or still
better, a few drops of creosote, into your ink, it will not trouble you by moulding. You should
also keep it corked tight when not in use.

[Continued from No. 3, Page 23.]

THE STORY OF A PARROT.

I soon heard the sound of voices, and in a moment my mistress with the children entered the
room. I greeted them with screams and laughter, while the whole party stopped in astonishment
at the wrecked condition of the pretty sitting-room.

"Oh, Lorito, you bad, bad boy!" said Louis, shaking his finger at me.

"Oo-oo-oo, bad boy! bad boy!" I screamed, to the great delight of the children, who forgot
in an instant the mischief I had done, and began to laugh heartily. Seeing my advantage, I
kept up a constant rattle of all the ridiculous nonsense I knew. The wine was still dancing
in my head, and I made a very sorrowful exhibition of myself.

The children's mother soon discovered the empty bowl lying tipped over on the hearth.

"Poor Lorito is drunk," she said, laughing; "he has swallowed every drop of the wine. We must
not blame him for his naughty actions. He is only a bird, and has not enough sense to let wine
alone."

She then began to lament the loss of my beauty. I was indeed a frightful object; and when I
heard my mistress declare that if I could not be cleaned I must be turned out of the house,
my terror at the thought of losing what I had begun to realize was a comfortable home brought
me to my sober senses at once. I hung my head and was silent. For the first time in my life
I was mortified and ashamed of myself.

It was now decided to try water on my feathers, and Louis, putting me on his shoulder, carried
me to the bath-room. I did feel the greatest inclination to bite his ear, but I contented myself
by gently pulling his hair, which made him laugh.

It was a great luxury to get into the bath-tub, for no one had even given me water to wet my
feet for a very long time; and although parrots do not care to get in the tub every morning
and flutter and spatter like canaries, still they like to wet their feet, and, above all things,
they enjoy a gentle shower-bath, like a summer rain.

I can not say the bath the children gave me was what I would have chosen myself, for they rubbed
me and scrubbed me and tumbled me about till I was half dead. At last it was over. The ink
stains had nearly disappeared from my feathers, but I was cold and miserable. Then, too, I
had proved myself such a destructive personage when free that my feet were chained once more;
and although my mistress had kindly covered the rings I wore round my ankles with soft flannel,
the chain was still a dreadful burden. When I was at last left alone on my perch, I gave way
to the most sorrowful meditations.

Still, all my present happiness dates from that troublesome time. The children were with me
constantly, and their kind treatment completely cured me of my ugly, malicious temper. I then
became acquainted with my dear friend Fritz, in whose company I have spent many happy hours.
In order to talk with him I was compelled to learn his language, and soon I could bark so well
that little Hope would clap her hands and say, "Our Rito makes a better doggie than Fritz himself."

Often when I sat on my perch Fritz would lie on the carpet near me, and we would hold long
conversations together. He, too, had met with disappointments in life, and we consoled each
other. We shared constantly the good things given us, and I soon discovered that Fritz adored
sugar. As there were always some pieces in my feed dish, I kept them for him, and many a frolic
we have had, for I never could help tantalizing him by holding the tempting morsel higher than
he could jump.

I have had some nice friends in the garden, for in warm weather I was often carried out and
placed on the branch of a tree, where I had the companionship of butterflies and bees and many
kinds of birds. Although they were neither so large nor so beautiful in color as those I knew
in my childhood on the banks of the Congo, still I found them excellent company. I would have
been perfectly happy in the garden had it not been for the chain which fastened me to the branch;
but experience had made me wiser than formerly, and I had learned not to expect perfect happiness,
so I wore my chain patiently.

My feed dish was fastened at my side, and as it was always well filled with sugar, bird seed,
and other dainties, I often offered some to my new friends; but so awed were they by my size
and grand appearance that they feared to approach me, although they would sit on a neighboring
branch and talk to me by the hour. Suddenly an idea occurred to me, which I at once put in
practice. Springing from my branch, I hung in the air by my chain, which was not only healthy
exercise, but left my feed dish free for my guests. They came in crowds, the sparrows of course,
hundreds of them, and also robins and finches. So often was this repeated that, to the great
surprise of the children, my feed dish was emptied several times every day.

"Mamma," I heard Carrie say once when they were all in the garden together, "Rito eats like
an ogre. I am afraid he'll kill himself."

"The fresh air makes him hungry," said Louis, who always had a wise reason for everything.
"The day you went to grandpa's, and played in the hay meadow, you ate like an ogre too. I heard
grandma say so."

"Yes, I did eat all the jumbles in grandma's tin cake-box," said Carrie; "but that was only
once, and every day nurse has to fill Rito's feed dish seven or eight times. He eats enough
for ten Ritos."

"Oh, mamma, look at him!" screamed little Hope, who at that moment spied me indulging in my
favorite exercise, swinging back and forth on my chain. The children and their mother ran toward
me, while I, with one of my loud laughs (which I have heard some people say was a very wicked
laugh: I don't think so), skillfully swung myself back to my branch, frightening as I did it
a crowd of my feathered friends who were gathered about my feed dish. The children's mother
saw them fly away. "Look," she cried; "there go the ogres. It is those thieving sparrows who
eat so much, and not Lorito himself."

Now the sparrows may be too bold sometimes, but I do not think they are thieves, and it made
me very angry to hear them called such a bad name. I screamed and struck my wings together
so violently that I slipped from the branch, and was again swinging in the air by my chain.

"Mamma, Rito will break his legs, and then we shall have to kill him," screamed Louis, in alarm.

"Take off his chain, oh, mamma, do," said kind-hearted Carrie; while little Hope pleaded in
her sweet voice: "Poor Rito will be good, mamma. He won't bite things any more."

You can not imagine how eagerly I listened to the discussion, for to be free from my chain
was now my sole ambition. My heart was touched by the affection of the children, and when,
to my intense delight, their mother yielded to their entreaties, I made a firm resolve that
I would never bite and tear things again, unless by good luck I could find an old newspaper
or a worthless stick, because I knew if I could not use my beak occasionally, it would ache
as bad as Carrie's tooth does some nights when she goes crying to bed.

Since that time my life has been very peaceful. I am free as air, my wings have recovered their
strength, and I go wherever I please. Whenever my little master Louis whistles for me I answer
him at once, for I have learned to whistle as well as he, and I always go as fast as I can
to perch upon his hand.

When night comes, and it grows dark, I go into my cage myself, and my good friend Fritz always
sleeps near me.

I have not forgotten my dear papa and mamma, nor my brother and sister, and I often wonder
if they are still living in the beautiful hollow tree by the Congo; but I have learned to love
new things, and to remember my childhood as a sweet dream instead of a lost and longed-for reality.

The gray parrot gave a little soft laugh, and was silent.

"I declare," said the canary, who had listened very attentively, "you have seen a lot of trouble.
But why such a quiet, gentlemanly bird as you should have such a passion to bite and tear things,
I can't imagine. Now my family--" But what the canary had to tell will always be a mystery,
for at that moment the door opened and in came papa and mamma from the party.

"Oh, Fritz, you naughty dog!" said mamma, when she saw her pretty afghan lying in a heap on
the floor. But when she lifted it to put it back on the lounge, she found Louis, still hugging
his bow and arrow, Carrie, Hope, the white kitty, and Fritz, all curled up in a little warm
bunch, sound asleep.

At that moment nurse, who had just returned from her party too, came running down stairs in
great alarm.

"Sure, ma'am, the children ain't in their beds at all," she began, but stopped in astonishment
when she saw her little charges sitting on the rug, rubbing their fists into their sleepy eyes.

"They did talk," said Louis, as soon as he was wide-awake enough to speak. "Lorito told us
all about his brother and sister and everybody."

"Yes, mamma, and he's so sorry he tipped over the ink," said Carrie.

"Good Rito loves me," said little Hope; "he wouldn't bite me for anything;" and she hugged
her white kitty, and went fast asleep, with her little head on mamma's shoulder, while mamma
laughed merrily at the children's wonderful dream.

The gray parrot did not say a word. He sat very quiet in his cage, his head buried in his feathers,
and his eyes shut tight.

But if, as mamma said, the children had been dreaming, it was very funny indeed that they all
three dreamed exactly the same thing.

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=Relative Age of Animals.=--The average age of cats is 15 years; of squirrels and hares, 7
or 8 years; rabbits, 7; a bear rarely exceeds 20 years; a dog lives 20 years, a wolf 20, a
fox 14 to 16; lions are long-lived, the one known by the name of Pompey living to the age of
70. Elephants have been known to live to the age of 400 years. When Alexander the Great had
conquered Porus, King of India, he took a great elephant which had fought valiantly for the
king, and named him Ajax, dedicated him to the sun, and let him go with this inscription, "Alexander,
the son of Jupiter, dedicated Ajax to the sun." The elephant was found with this inscription
350 years after. Pigs have been known to live to the age of 20, and the rhinoceros to 29; a
horse has been known to live to the age of 62, but they average 25 or 30; camels sometimes
live to the age of 100; stags are very long-lived; sheep seldom exceed the age of 10; cows
live about 15 years. Cuvier considers it probable that whales sometimes live 1000 years. The
dolphin and porpoise attain the age of 30; an eagle died at Vienna at the age of 104; ravens
have frequently reached the age of 100; swans have been known to live to the age of 300. Mr.
Malerton has the skeleton of a swan that attained the age of 200 years. Pelicans are long-lived.
A tortoise has been known to live to the age of 107 years.

WIGGLES.

The thick black line in this picture is a facsimile of the line No. 6 in our last Wiggles,
which we submitted to our readers, on which to test their ingenuity.

We subjoin another Wiggle, and shall be happy to see what our young friends can do with it.