Our joy and happiness on finding ourselves on board an American Man-of-War, and seeing "the
star spangled banner," once more floating in the air, we will not attempt to describe. Suffice
it to say, that none can form a true estimate of our feelings, except it be those who have
been suddenly and unexpectedly rescued from pain and peril, and threatening death. In the afternoon
the Captain wished me to go on shore with him, as an interpreter. We accordingly went, and
passed over to the village on the other side of the Island, where we had an interview with
a woman of distinction, (the men having fled, being principally absent with the chiefs at Alloo.)
The captain informed her he wished to see the chiefs, and requested her to send for them that
night, that he might visit them in the morning, and make them some presents. We then returned
to the vessel; and the following day, Dec. 1st, went on shore for the purpose of seeing the
chiefs, but could not obtain an interview with them. The captain informed the natives that
he must see the chiefs, and that he would wait another day, but if disappointed then, he should
be compelled to use coercive means. They immediately sent another messenger after them, and
we returned on board, accompanied by several of the natives, among whom was Ludjuan. The captain
made him several presents, and informed him they were given as a compensation for saving my
life. Shortly after, the natives went on shore.

The next morning, Dec. 2d, the captain sent me on shore, to ascertain whether the chiefs had
returned, and I was informed by the natives that they had, and were then at a house half a
mile distant. This intelligence having been communicated to the captain, he went on shore,
and took myself and Hussey for interpreters; but we found on our arrival, that the natives
had been practising a piece of deception--the chiefs not having returned. Very much displeased
at this perfidious treatment, the captain made a demand of the chiefs before sunset, threatening,
if it were not complied with, to go on shore with fifty men, well armed, and destroy every
person he could find. This threat threw the natives into consternation, and immediately another
messenger was despatched for the chiefs. The natives were so alarmed, that they soon sent off
three or four more messengers; and we returned on board to dine. After dinner, I went on shore
with Mr. Paulding, the first Lieutenant, and some of the under officers, for the purpose of
shooting birds. After rambling round the Island for some time, we discovered a number of natives
quickly approaching us from the lower part of the Island; and supposing the chiefs were with
them, we sat down to await their arrival; but before they came to us, a signal was set on board
the schooner, for us to return, which was immediately obeyed, without waiting for an interview
with the natives. Early on the next morning, I was sent ashore to ascertain whether the chiefs
had arrived, and soon found that they had, and were in a hut, waiting to receive a visit from
the captain, who, I informed them, would come on shore after breakfast, to have a talk with
them, and also to bestow some presents. Accordingly, the captain, with myself and Hussey, repaired
to the hut, where we found them sitting, and ready to commune with us.

The captain told them he had been sent out by the Head Chief of his country, to look for the
men that had been left there by the ship Globe--that he had been informed they murdered all
but two--that, as it was their first offence of the kind, their ignorance would plead an excuse--but
if they should ever kill or injure another white man, who was from any vessel or wreck, or
who might be left among them, our country would send a naval force, and exterminate every soul
on the Island; and also destroy their fruit trees, provisions, &c. and that if they would always
treat white men kindly, they never would receive any injury from them, but would have their
kindness and hospitality reciprocated. He also adverted to the practice of stealing, lying,
and other immoralities; stating to the natives that these crimes are abhorred and punished
in our country; and that murder is punished with death. He then sent me to the boat, lying
at the beach, to bring three tomahawks, one axe, a bag of beads, and a number of cotton handkerchiefs,
which were presented to the chiefs. He also gave them two hogs, and a couple of cats, with
injunctions not to destroy them, that they might multiply. The captain caused potatoes, corn,
pumpkins, and many valuable seeds to be planted, and gave the natives instructions how to raise
and preserve them. He then explained to them that these acts of kindness and generosity were
extended, because they saved us alive, and had taken care of us while among them. This conversation
with the natives being ended, we went on board, dined, and the captain and Hussey went again
on shore. The first Lieutenant made preparations for cruising in the launch, round the Island,
to make topographical surveys, who took me with him, as interpreter, and about 4 o'clock, we
commenced a cruise with a design to sail up an inlet or inland sea; but the wind blowing fresh,
and having a head sea, at 12 o'clock we anchored for the night.

Dec. 4th. At sunrise, we found ourselves not more than a mile from the place where we crossed
over the evening before; and immediately getting under weigh, and rowing to the westward, we
soon came to the place where the Globe's station had been; anchored, and went on shore, for
the purpose of disinterring the bones of Comstock, who had been buried there, and to obtain
a cutlass, which was buried with him; but before we had accomplished the undertaking, the schooner
got under weigh, and soon anchored abreast of us, at the same place where the Globe's provisions
were landed. The captain and Hussey immediately came on shore to view the place; but as I caught
cold the preceding night, by lying exposed in our launch, I was excused from serving further
with Mr. Paulding in making surveys, and Hussey supplied my place. Soon after, I went on board
with the captain, carrying with me the skull of the person we had dug up, and the cutlass,
intending to convey them to America.

After dinner, the captain made a trip in the gig, to Alloo, taking me for his interpreter,
where we arrived in half an hour, and soon travelled up to the village. The natives received
us with marks of gladness, and in a short time the house at which we stopped was surrounded
by them, who came undoubtedly for the purpose of gratifying their curiosity, by gazing at us.
We remained at the village about two hours, during which time we had considerable talk with
two of the chief women, and made some small presents to the people, such as beads, &c. They
did not treat us as they usually do visitors, with fruit, &c. there being at that time what
we call a famine, which in their language, is Ingathah.

After having taken leave of the natives, and walked about half the distance to the shore, we
stopped to refresh ourselves under a fine cool shade. While in conversation on the manners
and customs of the natives, an old man and woman approached us, who had acted towards me, during
my residence among them, as father and mother. I immediately made them and their kindness to
me known to the captain, who, in consideration of their humane treatment, rewarded them with
a few beads and a handkerchief, for which they appeared thankful and grateful--telling them
at the same time, the presents were to recompense their hospitality to me, and enjoining on
them at all times to be friendly to the whites, and a reward would certainly await them. It
being near the close of the day, we left Alloo, and having a fair wind, reached the schooner
before dark.

The next morning, Dec. 5th, being very pleasant, all hands were employed in procuring wood
for the schooner--some in cutting it down, and others in boating it off. Our carpenter had
been engaged for a few days, at Milly; to instruct and assist the natives in repairing a canoe.
The distance was four or five miles, and the captain wanting the carpenter, set sail for Milly
in his gig, and soon arrived there; where he learned that the carpenter had repaired the canoe,
to the great satisfaction of the natives, who expressed a strong desire that he might be permitted
to remain among them on the Island; but the captain informed them he could not spare him. When
the natives saw the carpenter packing up his tools, they expressed to me an expectation that
the tools would be left with them as a present. We left the natives, and reached the schooner
a little before sunset; the captain feeling anxious for the fate of the launch, as nothing
yet had been heard of the fortune which had attended her, or the men in her.

Dec. 6th. Having procured a sufficient supply of wood, though our supply of provisions was
hardly sufficient for the voyage, and the launch having returned, at about 10 A. M. we weighed
anchor and proceeded to the place called Milly, where we anchored for the purpose of planting
some seeds, and taking a last farewell of the chiefs and their people. The captain went immediately
on shore, taking Hussey for his interpreter. He was gone till nearly night, when he returned,
bringing with him Luttuon and several other natives. The captain gave orders to beat to quarters,
to exhibit the men to the natives, and explain to them the manner of our fighting. Those untutored
children of nature, seemed highly gratified with the manoeuvres, but were most delighted with
the music, probably the first of the kind they ever heard. We informed them we always have
such music when we are fighting an enemy. The natives were then landed, and we immediately
made sail for the head of the Island, intending to cruise around the other shores of it, for
the purpose of making surveys, and constructing a map of it. We stood eastward till nearly
morning, then altered our course and headed towards the Island.

During the following day, Dec. 7th, having favorable winds and weather, we made a regular survey
of the whole length of the groupe, before sunset.--The captain now steered N. W. to endeavour
to discover other Islands which the natives had often described to me, during my abode with
them. They said they had frequently visited ten or twelve different Islands in their canoes,
and that the people who inhabit them, all speak the same language, which is the same as their
own, and that the Islands lie about one day's sail from each other.

Dec. 8. The weather pleasant and fair; about 9 o'clock, A. M. we saw land ahead, and passed
it on the windward side, then varied our course and sailed to the leeward of the Island; but
night coming on, we were obliged to defer landing till morning. The captain then attempted
to reach the shore in the gig, but was not able to land, on account of the surf. After he returned
on board, we made sail, cruising farther to the leeward, in hopes of finding a place to anchor,
but in this we were disappointed, not being able to find bottom thirty yards from the rocks.
However, at high water, the captain, at imminent hazard in passing the surf, succeeded in landing.
He had previously given orders to me and Hussey, not to let the natives know that we could
converse with, or understand them, but to be attentive to every thing that might pass among
them, to ascertain whether their intentions and dispositions were hostile or friendly. After
landing, the captain and Hussey visited the house where the head chief, or king of all those
Islands lived, of whom I had formerly heard so much, while I was on the Mulgraves.--They continued
with him about two hours, were treated well, and discovering nothing unfriendly in the natives,
the captain told Hussey he might make them acquainted with his knowledge of their language,
by conversing with them. The king, on hearing Hussey speaking in the language of the natives,
appeared at first so frightened and agitated, that he could scarcely reply; but by degrees
became composed, and inquired of Hussey where he learned their language, and why he had not
spoken to them immediately on coming ashore. Hussey then informed him he was one of the two
persons that had been on the Mulgraves, (in their language, Milly,) and that the other person
(myself) was on board the schooner--that the schooner had been there after us, that we left
the Mulgraves the day before, and had then visited that Island for the purpose of examining
it, &c. &c. The king had long before heard of our being at the Mulgraves, and told Hussey he
had been repairing his canoe, in order to go to those Islands, with a view to induce us to
live with him, who, had that been the case, would undoubtedly have used us well. The king was
about 70 years of age, and had a daughter on the Island where we had resided, wife to Luttuon.
He inquired if his daughter was alive and well, with tears in his eyes and trembling form,
for it was a long time since he had received any intelligence of her; and hearing of her welfare
so unexpectedly, quite overcame the good old father's feelings. And here the reader will observe,
that the pure and unaffected emotions produced by parental affection, are similar among all
the human species, whether civilized or savage. The natives of the Island we were then visiting,
may be ranked with those that have made the fewest approaches towards the refined improvements
of enlightened nations, yet the ground work of humanity was discovered to be the same; and
the solicitude of a fond father for a beloved child, was manifested in a manner which would
not disgrace those who move in the most elevated circles of civilized life. The old king expressed
his regret that he had not visited the Mulgraves during our stay there, was very sorry we were
about to return to America, and used all the force of native eloquence, to persuade us to continue
with him. He inquired if we had got the whale boat he had heard of our having at the Mulgraves.
Hussey informed him it was on board the schooner, and the swivel likewise. The captain then
informed the king that he wanted cocoanuts and bup, which were obtained; and in return, the
captain gave the natives some beads and handkerchiefs. The captain then went on board the schooner,
made sail, standing a N. W. course, in pursuit of another Island.

Dec 9th. About 10 o'clock in the forenoon, we discovered land ahead and off our lee bow. About
2 o'clock, P. M. we arrived near the land, hove the schooner to, and sent two boats ashore,
to get provisions. At sunset the boats returned, loaded with cocoanuts and bup. We hoisted
up our boats, and with a strong breeze, it being the inclement season of the year, prosecuted
our voyage to the Sandwich Islands, & had much boisterous weather during the passage.

On Jan. 8th, 1826, we expected to make one of the Sandwich Islands, called Bird's Island, but
night came on before we discovered it. But early on the following morning, we saw land about
four leagues to the leeward, and bore down to the Island for the purpose of sending a boat
ashore, to kill seals.--We arrived near the landing place, hove to, and the captain with six
men went ashore in the whale boat. We now stood off from the shore for about an hour, then
tacked and stood in, for the boat to come off. The wind had increased to almost a gale, and
continuing to blow harder, when we were within a quarter of a mile of the Island, not discovering
any thing of the boat, we veered off again, and continued tacking till night came on, but saw
nothing of the boat or her crew. About 9 or 10 o'clock, the wind abated, and we found ourselves
two leagues to the leeward of the Island, where we lay to all night under easy sail, anxiously
waiting for the approach of morning, in hopes then to learn the fate of the captain and men
who had gone on shore. At length the horizon was lighted by the dawn of day, which was succeeded
by the opening of a very pleasant morning. We immediately made all sail for the Island, but
having a head wind, we did not arrive at the landing till near the middle of the day. A boat
was sent on shore to learn what had befallen the crew of the whale boat, and shortly returned
with all the men except the captain and one man that could not swim. We ascertained, that in
attempting to come off through the surf, they were swamped and lost their boat. We a second
time sent the boat ashore with means to get the captain and other man, who were soon brought
on board. We now made sail and steered our course for Woahoo, one of the Sandwich Islands,
and nothing very material occurring on our passage, we anchored in the harbour of that Island
on the 14th. On the 16th procured a supply of fresh provisions. On the 19th, Hussey and myself
went on shore for the purpose of rambling round the Island, but nothing occurred worthy of notice.

Our foremast being found rotten a few feet below the top, it was deemed necessary to take it
out for repairs, which required the daily employment of the carpenter and others for some time.--On
the 27th, the captain received a letter, giving intelligence that the ship London had been
driven ashore at an Island not far distant from Woahoo.--As the Dolphin's foremast was out,
the captain was under the necessity of pressing the brig Convoy, of Boston, and putting on
board of her about 90 of his own men, taking with him 2 of his lieutenants and some under officers,
he sailed to the assistance of the ship London.

Feb, 3d, the brig Convoy returned laden with a part of the cargo of the London, and the specie
which was in her at the time of her going ashore, under the command of our 2d lieutenant, leaving
the remainder of her cargo in another vessel, under the command of Capt. Percival.

Feb. 5th. The captain returned with the residue of the London's cargo, and the officers and
crew of that ship. After the cargo of the London had been secured, we were employed in finishing
the repairs on our foremast, which were completed on the 21st; and we commenced rigging.

Feb. 26th. On the morning of this day, permission was granted to a number of our crew, to go
on shore. In the afternoon, Hussey and myself went and took a walk. About 4 or 5 o'clock, I
observed a great collection of natives, and on inquiring the reason, learned that several of
the Dolphin's crew, joined by some from other ships lying in port, had made an assault upon
Mr. Bingham, the missionary, in consequence of ill will towards that gentleman, strongly felt
by some of the sailors, but for what particular reason, I did not distinctly ascertain. They
carried their revenge so far, that they not only inflicted blows upon Mr. Bingham, but attacked
the house of a chief. The natives, some with cutlasses, and others with guns, repelled the
unjustifiable attack; and during the affray, several of our men were slightly injured, and
one badly wounded, whose life was despaired of for some time. The offenders were arrested,
sent on board, and put in irons.

On the next day, 27th, Mr. Bingham came on board with the captain and witnesses against the
men engaged the preceding day, in the assault on shore. After a fair examination of evidence
in the case, the aggressors were properly punished, and ordered to their duty.--The whale ships
now began to arrive for the purpose of recruiting, and for some particular reasons, several
of the captains of those ships requested captain Percival to remain at the Island as a protection
to them, till they could obtain the necessary supplies, and resume their cruises. From the
present date, nothing of importance occurred that would be interesting to readers, till April
3d, when great preparations were made on board the Dolphin, to give a splendid entertainment
to the young king. The gig and second cutter were employed in the morning, to borrow signals
from the different ships in the harbour, in order to dress out the schooner in a fanciful style.
About 11 o'clock, the gig and second cutter were sent ashore for the king and several chiefs
and natives of distinction, who were soon conveyed on board. The yards were manned, and a general
salute fired. After partaking of as good a dinner as our resources and the means within our
reach would afford, the king and his attendants were disembarked under the honour of another
salute.--During the remainder of this month, the events which transpired, were principally
of an ordinary cast, and not thought worthy of record.

May 3d. This day we were employed in bending sails; and from this date to the 11th, the necessary
preparations were made to commence our homeward voyage. This day (11th,) the pilot came on
board, and for the last time we weighed our anchors in the harbour of Woahoo. While retiring
from the shore we were saluted with 21 guns from the fort. We hove about, returned the salute,
and then resumed our destined course, and bid a last adieu to Woahoo, after a tedious and protracted
stay of about four months.

From the time of our departure, on the 11th of May, from Woahoo, nothing of importance transpired
till the 12th of June. On the morning of this day we discovered the Island Toobowy; and at
9 o'clock saw a sail, which proved to be a whale ship. At half past 2 came to anchor at a convenient
place near the Island, and sent a boat ashore, which returned at night with two natives, who
gave us a description of the harbour, and directions how to enter it; and as our mainmast was
injured, we entered it to make the necessary repairs. On the 13th, we beat up the harbour,
and at 3 o'clock anchored, where we continued repairing our mast, and procuring wood and water,
till the 22d; when we weighed anchor and made sail for Valparaiso, favoured with fine weather
and good winds. July 18th, made the Island of Massafuero, and passed it about midnight. On
the 19th, in the forenoon, made the Island of Juanfernandez; and at 11 P. M. on the following
day, discovered the land at the south of Valparaiso. On the 22d, beat up the harbour, and at
2 o'clock on the morning of the 23d, came to anchor.--At Valparaiso, we learned that the frigate
United States was at Callao; and after getting a supply of provisions, we sailed for Callao
on the 9th of August, and arrived on the 24th. Here we found the United States, lying under
the Island of Lorenzo, with several English ships of war.

On the 26th, the Dolphin in company with the United States, passed over to Callao; and Sept.
1st, I and the crew of the Dolphin were transferred to the United States.

Sept. 10th. All the men that had been transferred from the Dolphin to the United States, had
liberty to go to Lima; at 12 o'clock we went on shore, and at 4 P. M. entered the gates of
the city. I employed my time while on shore, in roving about the city, and viewing the various
objects it presents; and on the 13th returned on board the United States. We were detained
here till the 16th of December, when we sailed for Valparaiso, and having a pleasant passage,
arrived on the 6th of January, where we were happy to find, for our relief, the Brandywine.
From the 8th to the 24th, all hands were engaged in preparing the ship for her homeward voyage;
when at 9 o'clock we weighed our larboard anchor, and at 1 P. M. were under sail, passing out
of the harbour, when the Cambridge, (an English 74,) then lying in the harbour, gave us 3 cheers,
which we returned with 3 times 3; she then saluted us with 13 guns, which we returned with
the same number, and then proceeded to sea.

Being favoured with fine weather and good winds, we had a prosperous voyage to Cape Horn, and
arrived off the pitch on the 7th of Feb. and passed round with a pleasant breeze. In prosecuting
our voyage home, off the mouth of the river Rio de la Plata, and along the coast of Brazil,
we had rough weather and thick fogs. On the 6th we made the land and harbour of St. Salvador,
and about 9 o'clock came to anchor.--On the 7th we fired a salute for the fort, which was returned.

We were now employed in watering our ship, and making other preparations for continuing our
voyage homeward; and on the 15th got under weigh, with a fine breeze.

April 1st. At 10 o'clock, made the Island of Barbadoes, and at 1 P. M. came to anchor, where
we lay till 5 P. M. on the 3d, when we got under weigh, and sailed down the Island to St. Thomas,
where we sent a boat ashore, and after transacting the business for which we stopped, made
sail on the 9th for the port of New-York. On the 21st, made the highland of Neversink; at 2
P. M. took a pilot on board, but owing to fogs and calms, did not arrive to the port of destination
till 1 P. M. next day, when we anchored opposite the West Battery, with a thankful heart that
I was once more within the United States.

CHAPTER VII.

I will now proceed to give the reader some account of the Islands I visited, and of the manners
and customs of the natives, and shall endeavour to be as candid and correct as possible.

The Mulgrave Islands are situated between 5 and 6 degrees north latitude, and between 170 and
174 degrees of east longitude. They are about 50 miles in length, and lie in the form of a
semi-circle, forming a kind of inland sea or lake; the distance across it being about 20 miles.
The land is narrow, and the widest place is probably not more than half a mile. On the north
side of the group are several inlets or passages, of sufficient depth to admit the free navigation
of the largest ships; and if explored, excellent harbours would in all probability be found.
In the inland sea are numerous beds of coral, which appear to be constantly forming and increasing.
These coral beds are seen at low water, but are all overflowed at high tide. The whole group
is entirely destitute of mountains, and even hills, the highest land not being more than six
feet above the level of the sea at high water. By the accounts given me from the natives, it
appears that some parts have been overflowed by the sea. Their being so low, makes the navigation
near them very dangerous in the night, both because they would not be easily seen, and because
the water is very deep quite to the shores; and a place for anchoring can scarcely be found
on the outside of the Island.

The air of these Islands is pure, and the climate hot; but the heat is rendered less oppressive
by the trade winds, which blow constantly, and keep the atmosphere healthful and salubrious
for so low a latitude.

The soil, in general, is productive of little besides trees and shrubs, and most of it is covered
with rough coral stones.

