Mr. Punch vouchsafed no answer. He looked at the man, who quailed under the eagle glance, and,
muttering a hasty apology, drew back. A door flew open; the Champion of Champions and his friend
passed through it. They found themselves in a spacious hall. In the centre a square had been
roped off. All round were arranged seats and benches. In the square were four men, two of them
stripped to the waist sitting in chairs in opposite corners, while the two others were busily
engaged in fanning them with towels. The seats and benches were all occupied by a very motley
throng.

"Aha," said Mr. Punch, as he made his way to the throne reserved for him, "this is good. I
have done a little bit of fighting myself in my time. My mill with the Tutbury Boy is still
remembered. One hundred and twenty rounds, at the end of which I dropped him senseless. But
that was with the knuckles. Here they fight with gloves. But of course they fight now for the
mere honour of the thing, I presume."

But here the heroic Muse insists on taking up the strain:--

  The Father spake--"O skilled in men and books,
  Read me this crowd, inspect them, scan their looks;
  See, from their shining heads electric rays,
  Reflected, sparkle in their barbers' praise.
  Lo, on each bulging front's expansive white
  A single jewel flames with central light;
  To vacant eyes the haughty eye-glass clings,
  Stiff stand their collars, though their ties have wings.
  What of their faces? Bloodshot eyes that blink,
  And thick lips, framed for blasphemy and drink.
  Here the grey hair, that should adorn the Sage,
  Serves but to mark a weak, unhonoured age;
  There on the boy pale cheeks proclaim the truth,
  The faded emblems of a wasted youth.
  All, all are loathsome in this motley crew,
  The Peer, the Snob, the Gentile, and the Jew,
  Young men and old, the greybeards and the boys,
  These dull professors of debauch and noise."

         *       *       *       *       *

  He ceased. The Wise One gazed in silent gloom,
  While oaths and uproar hurtled through the room--
  "Hi, there, a monkey on the Pollux Pet;"
  "Fifty to forty;" "Blank your eyes, no bet;"
  "A level thousand on the Castor Chick;"
  "Brandy for two, and, curse you, bring it quick."
  While one who spake to Punch rapped out an oath--
  "Who cares?" he said, "I stand to win on both.
  Fair play be blowed, that's all a pack of lies,
  Let fools fight fair, while these cut up the prize.
  Old Cock, you needn't frown; I'm in the know,
  And if you don't like barneys, dash it, go!"
  One blow from Punch had quelled th' audacious man,
  He raised his hand, when, lo, the fight began.

  "Time! time!" called one; the cornered ruffians rose,
  Shook hands, squared up, then swift they rained in blows.
  Feint follows feint, and whacks on whacks succeed,
  Struck lips grow puffy, battered eye-brows bleed.
  From simultaneous counters heads rebound,
  And ruby drops are scattered on the ground.
  Abraded foreheads flushing show the raw,
  And fistic showers clatter on the jaw.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Now on "the mark" impinge the massive hands,
  Now on the kissing-trap a crasher lands.
  Blood-dripping noses lose their sense of smell,
  And ribs are roasted that a crowd may yell.
  Each round the other's neck the champions cling,
  Then break away, and stagger round the ring.
  Now panting Pollux fails, his fists move slow,
  He trips, the Chicken plants a smashing blow.
  The native "pug" lies spent upon the floor,
  Lies for ten seconds,--and the fight is o'er.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Thunders of cheering hail th' expected end,
  High in the air ecstatic hats ascend.
  While frenzied peers and joyous bookies drain
  Promiscuous bumpers of the Club champagne.

But Mr. Punch had seen enough.

"Do you call this one-round job a fight?" he said, as he rose to depart. "I call it the work
of curs and cowards. Who can call these fellows fighting-men? They are merely mop-sticks. Men
were ruffianly enough years ago in the country we have left, but they were men at any rate.
Here, they seem to be merely a pack of bloodthirsty molly-coddles, crossed with calculating
rogues. The mob outside was better than this. But, thank Heaven, we have nothing like this
in London."

And with that he and Father TIME walked gloomily from the hall, and found themselves once more
in the street.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What ho! my trusty Shooting Star," cried Mr. Punch. Whirr-r-r--

And in the thousandth part of a second they found themselves within measurable distance of
TOBY's own Planet. And here the Dog speaks for himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

VISIT TO THE DOG-STAR.

"Take care of the plank, Sir," I said, as my esteemed master lightly skipped across the gangway,
marshalling a well-grown youth carrying a scythe; "we don't have many visitors here. One who
looked in the other day slipped his foot, fell over, and we've never seen him since. Listening
intently, watch in hand, we heard a slight thud, and have reason to believe he dropped on Jupiter.
It was useful to us, seeing that, by use of a well-known formula, we were able to reckon our
precise distance from that planet. For him, I fancy, it must have been inconvenient."

"Are you serious, TOBY?" said Mr. Punch, stepping with added caution.

"No, Sir, I'm not. This," I said, waving my hand with graceful and comprehensive gesture around
the orb where I am temporarily located, "this is Sirius."

"Ah, I see," said Mr. P., glad to find himself with his foot on our native heath; "I want to
present you to an old friend, whom, I am afraid, you have sometimes misused. TIME, this is
TOBY, M.P., a humble but faithful member of my terrestrial suite. I am showing the young fellow
round, TOBY, and we looked in on you, hearing that you had a Parliament that should serve as
a model for the firmament."

"I am afraid," observed TIME, whittling a piece of stick with his scythe, "that we may have
looked in at a wrong season. As far as I can judge from a consideration of the temperature,
and a glance round your landscape, we are now at Midsummer--in the dog days, if I may so put
it without offence. Of course your legislators would not be in Town just now, sweltering at
work that might as well be performed in winter weather, when, regarded as a place of business
or residence, Town has attractions superior to those of the country." "Ah, young fellow," I
said, perhaps a little sharply, not relishing his somewhat round-about way of putting things,
"when you are as old as me or my esteemed master, you will not be so cock-sure of things. Our
Parliamentary Session begins on the threshold of Spring; we stop in Town hard at work, through
the pleasantest months of the year; we toil through Summer nights, see August out, and, somewhere
about the first week in September, when the days are growing short, the air is chill, and Autumn
gets ready to usher in Winter, we go off to make holiday."

"Dear me, dear me!" cried Mr. P., "how very sad. How deliberately foolish. We manage things
much better than that down in our tight little Earth. When we take that in turn, you will find,
my good TIME, that we burrow at our legislative work through the Winter months, getting it
done so as to leave us free to enjoy the country in the prime of Spring, and amid the wealth
of Summer. But come along, TOBY, let's get on to your House."

"It will be no use going now," said TIME, holding up his hour-glass; "it is five o'clock; the
working day is practically over, and we shall find these sensible dogs travelling off to take
a turn in the park, or pay a round of visits in search of the culinary receptacle that cheers,
but does not intoxicate."

"Wrong again, young Cock-sure," I said; "we shall just find our house of Commons settling down
to the business of the night. We begin about four o'clock in the afternoon, and peg away till
any hour to-morrow morning that one or two Members please. It is true we have a rule which
enjoins the suspension of business at midnight; but instead of suspending business we can (and
do) suspend the Rule, and sometimes sit all night."

"Ah!" said Mr. Punch, gravely shaking his head, "we manage things much better than that at
Westminster."

Got my two friends with some difficulty across Palace Yard, eyed suspiciously by the police-dogs
on duty. One concentrated his attention on Mr. Punch's dorsal peculiarity.

"We have strict orders from the Sergeant-at-Arms," he said, "to examine all parcels carried
by strangers."

"That's not a parcel," I said, hurriedly, and taking him on one side, succinctly explained
the personal peculiarity of my esteemed Master. "Humph!" said the police-dog. "Exactly," I
responded, and he let us pass on, though evidently with lingering apprehension that he was
allowing a valuable clue to slip out of his hands, as it were.

"Wait here a moment," I said, "till I get an order for your admission."

Absent only a few minutes; when I got back terrible commotion; Mr. P.'s friend was in the hands
of the Police; they had attempted to take his scythe from him, and he had smartly rapped one
on the head with his hour-glass.

"I've carried it a million years," he said, swinging the scythe with practised hand, till he
made a clean sweep of the police-dogs.

"Make it a couple of millions, whilst you are at it, young man," said a sarcastic police-dog.

With some difficulty calmed him; explained that no one, not even a Member, was permitted to
enter House with a scythe, or other lethal weapon. Only exception made once a year, when Hon.
Members, moving and seconding Address, are allowed to carry property-swords, which generally
get between their legs. TIME partially mollified at last, consented to leave scythe behind
chair of door-keeper, where the late TOM COLLINS used to secrete his gingham-umbrella.

"It seems to me," he said, "that the public are treated in this place worse than jackals. Hustled
from pillar to post, suspected of unnamed crimes, grudged every convenience, and generally
regarded as intolerable intruders."

"Ah," said Mr. P., "we manage things much better at Westminster."

"Order! Order!" cried an angry voice, and Mr. P. and his companion were within an ace of being
trundled out of the gallery, where strangers are permitted to see and hear whatever is possible
from their position--and it is not much.

"What are they talking about?" asked TIME, in guarded whisper, being, by this time, completely
cowed.

"They haven't reached public business yet," I explained. "Been for last two hours debating
a private Bill, providing that the pump-handle in the village of Plumberry shall be chained
at eight o'clock at night. The Opposition want it done at nine."

"Well, I suppose they know all about it," said TIME. "Probably been down to Plumberry, examined
into bearing of whole question, and formed their opinion accordingly?"

"Nothing of the sort; some of them don't even know where Plumberry is--never heard its name
before this Pump-handle business came up. Don't even now wait in House to hear question, debated
by Members with local knowledge. You see only twenty or thirty Members in their places. But,
when bell rings for division, four hundred will troop in, and their vote will settle the question
whether Plumberry shall be privileged to pump water as late as nine o'clock, or whether at
eight the handle shall be chained."

So it turned out: In House of four hundred and seventy-nine Members Bill was read a second
time by majority of twenty-three. Division occupied twenty minutes, which, with debate, appropriated
two of the most precious hours of the sitting.

Mr. P. narrowly escaped expulsion, attention being awkwardly concentrated upon him, owing to
the exuberance of his delight in recollection of how much better these things are managed at
Westminster.

After this, public business was approached, beginning with questions. Of these there were a
list of eighty, the large majority on exceedingly trivial circumstances. Nine-tenths of them
could have been answered in a sentence by the Minister addressed, supposing the Member had
dropped him a private note, or crossed the floor of the House, to speak to him. TIME openly
contemptuous at such a way of doing business, more especially when, on question which appeared
on printed paper having been answered, half-a-dozen Members sprang up from different parts
of House, and volleyed forth supplementary interrogations. Explained to him things used to
be worse when questions were propounded viví voce, and at length.

"Now," I said, not liking Mr. P.'s crowing over us, "the SPEAKER will not allow the terms of
a question to be recited. They appear on printed paper, and are taken as read."

"Then," queried TIME, "what are these Members putting questions 'arising,' they say, 'out of
the answer just given? They don't spare a syllable, and take up five times as much of the Sitting
as Members who put their questions on the Paper, and are not allowed to read them. You don't
mean to say that such a transparent evasion of the rule is permitted?"

"It looks very like it," said Mr. P.; "but it's not at all the sort of thing that would be
permitted in our House of Commons. We make Rules, and the Speaker sees that they are obeyed
in the spirit, as well as in the letter."

By the time questions were over, following on the prelude of private business, the evening
was getting on. Members evidently tired out; had crowded in to vote on the Pump-handle question;
sat in serried rows during the squabbles of question-time; and as soon as business was actually
reached, House swiftly emptied, leaving about a score of Members. TIME more than ever distracted.
Mr. P. increasingly perky.

"Ho! ho!" he said, rubbing his hands, "I don't wonder at this Star going to the Dogs. Stop
till you come over to Westminster, TIME, dear boy, and we'll show you how public business should
be carried on."

Explain to them that House is now in Committee on a Bill that had at earlier stages occupied
some months of the Session, practically the greater portion of its working time. Now Session
drawing to a close; agreed on both sides that it is too late to conclude Bill this Session;
will be dropped after another night or two; Members knowing this, do not think it worth while
to give up more time to Bill. Next Session it will be brought in again, and if the Government
have better luck, and get earlier stages through in less time, there will be a chance of it
passing.

"What!" shrieked TIME, forgetting where he was, "you don't mean to say that after devoting
nearly a whole Session to a measure, laboriously shaping it up to a certain stage, you chuck
away all your work because the Almanack says it's August? Why don't you, when you meet again
in February, take the Bill up at the stage you dropped it? Why don't you--"

Here our friend's observations were brought to a sudden close. TIME was, as Mr. P. subsequently
remarked, reduced to the status of a half-Timer. Angry cries of "Order! Order!" broke in on
his unpremeditated speech. Two attendants, approaching him on either flank, seized him, and
led him forth under the personal direction of the Sergeant-at-Arms. Mr. P., following his friend,
and endeavouring from the top of the staircase to assure him that, "we manage these things
better at Westminster," was promptly taken into custody, and led forth beyond the precincts,
a combination of circumstances that interrupted and, indeed, as far as my friends were concerned,
finally closed what was beginning to promise to prove an agreeable and instructive evening.

Business Done.--Mr. Punch and another Stranger expelled from the Gallery, and TOBY's narrative
completed.

       *       *       *       *       *

VISIT TO VENUS.

The two Travellers made their way through space in silence, but on a sudden Father TIME plucked
his conductor by the sleeve, and spoke.

"Sir," he said, "I perceive in the distance a wonderful light, and there is a sound of soft
and beautiful music that attracts me strangely. Shall we approach the light, and listen more
closely to these strains?"

"Have patience." replied the Sage. "The light and the music come from the planet Venus. Thither
I am directing our course. In a few moments we shall arrive."

Even as he spoke the light grew brighter, the music of the invisible choir swelled to a louder
strain, and before the King of the Hours had time to express his rapture, the pair had alighted
in a scene of veritable enchantment. Fairy-like structures of crystal, sparkling with all the
hues of the rainbow, rose on every side. Spires and domes of the most fantastic but graceful
design seemed to soar into the clear and perfect air. All were bathed in a rosy glow, the source
of which was hidden. Spacious walks paved with huge blocks of opal divided the rows of palaces.
Along them grew tall and slender trees of a curious and delicate foliage. Birds of Paradise,
King Fishers and doves flitted from branch to branch. The broadest of these avenues ended in
a sweeping flight of steps of alabaster which led to a vast and perfectly proportioned hall,
the roof of which was supported on columns of pure jewels, diamonds, rubies, sapphires and
emeralds.

A throng of maidens, in classical attire and wearing wreaths of roses on their heads, made
their way along this avenue to where Mr. Punch and his companion were standing. Their leader,
a fair and lovely girl of seventeen, advanced to the Wise One and addressed him.

"Sire," she sang in a low and gracious voice, "Our Queen has sent me to say that she waits
for your coming. She holds her Court in yonder hall, and thither I am bidden to guide you.
Is it your pleasure to come at once?"

Mr. Punch signified his assent, the maiden took him by the hand, and beckoning to Father TIME
to follow, they walked slowly towards the Royal Hall and mounted the steps. A double gate of
wrought gold opened as they reached the top, and passing through it, they found themselves
in the Court of Queen CALLISTA. A marvellous sight met their eyes. The Queen sat on a raised
throne in the midst of a throng of attendants. She was of surpassing beauty. Her deep-blue
eyes were set like jewels beneath a broad low forehead on which a light crown of pearls and
diamonds rested. Her garments were of a soft gauzy material that half concealed and half revealed
the beautiful lines of her bust and limbs. In one hand she held a spray of myrtle, the other
rested lovingly on the head of the magnificent hound who sat beside her, looking trustfully
into her face. The great hall was filled with beautiful women grouped together here and there,
some seated and some standing. They were all talking. Suddenly the Queen raised her hand and
commanded silence. She then rose and thus addressed the two visitors:--

"You have come from below to the Realm of Women. Here we abide as you behold us. Age and decay
hold aloof from us, and we order our lives with wisdom and modesty. Speak, if you have aught
to ask."

"Pardon me, Madam," said Father TIME, somewhat rashly, "are we not here on the planet Venus?
and have I not somewhere heard strange tales of what was done by ----?"

But CALLISTA interrupted him. She smiled a beautiful smile.

"Ah, yes," she said, "those stories are of the vanished past. Now we blush even to think they
might once have been true;" and surely enough the whole charming assemblage became suffused
with the prettiest imaginable blush. "I will speak plainly with you," continued the Queen;
"for plain speech is best. No men live here. Therefore, we dwell in peace. But we permit the
fairest and best among our number to descend from time to time to earth, and to dwell there
in mortal shapes for awhile. You may have seen them," she went on, mentioning some names well
known to Mr. Punch. "They are allowed to marry; but only the wisest and noblest men may approach
them. On earth their will is free, and sometimes, alas, they fall away from righteousness,
and pass through bitter tribulation."

"Yes," said the Fleet Street Sage, "We call it the Divorce Court--your Majesty will pardon
the rough speech of an old man--and, somehow, we don't seem able to get on without it. But
here, of course, you have no such institution?"

"No," replied the Queen. "There once was such a court among us, hundreds of years ago, ere
we had banished the men from our midst. Now, however, we use the building in which petitions
used to be heard as our chief College. Come hither, ZOE," she proceeded, addressing a sweet
little girl of about fifteen. "Tell this wise gentleman your solution of that pretty question
relating to the concomitants of a system of ternary quadrics."

Without a moment's hesitation, ZOE stated the question, and, what is more, solved it with absolute
correctness.

"Marvellous!" said Mr. Punch. "I congratulate you."

"CYNTHIA," said the Queen, beckoning with her rosy fingers to another maiden, "will you recite
to me your Pindaric Ode on the late foot-race?"

CYNTHIA at once complied, and Mr. Punch listened in amazement to the resounding lines of an
ode worthy of the great Greek. "Nor do we confine ourselves to such accomplishments," the Queen
went on. "We all sew perfectly, our knitting is universally admired, and our classes on the
Management of Domestic Servants, or the true theory of Making Both Ends Meet are always largely
attended. Moreover, we do not neglect the body. Some play at ball, some even form elevens for
cricket, others fence or play your Scotch game, or even lawn-tennis, and all dance gracefully.
See!" she cried, clapping her hands, "they shall show you."

At this signal delicious music burst forth in a strange measure, swaying, rhythmical, and delightful.
The maidens enlaced one another, and moved across the floor in perfect time. Their bodies seemed
to float rather than tread the ground, as they passed the spell-bound visitors. The dance ceased
as suddenly as it began.

"Your Majesty" said Mr. Punch, "your country is, indeed, highly blessed, and your subjects
are marvellously accomplished. You dwell here without men, without chaperons, and you are lovely,"
he added, with emotion, "beyond the power of words to express. Would that your example could
be followed upon earth!"

And with this, he and the Father kissed the young Queen's hand, and left the royal presence
chamber.

       *       *       *       *       *

VISIT TO SERIOCOMIX.

"And so," said TIME, as he carefully arranged his forelock before a mirror in the corridor,
in reply to a communication recently made to him by Mr. Punch en route, "and so we're to make
a regular rollicking night of it'? You insist on taking me into every Music Hall in Seriocomix,
hey, you young dog, you! Well, well, Sir, I'm not so young as I used to be--but I'm as fond
of a bit of good honest wholesome fun as ever I was. So lead on!"

They were in Seriocomix--a new and brilliant planet recently discovered by Mr. Punch--by the
aid of WELLER's patent double-million gas-magnifying microscope (extra power). This star, as
all astronomers are by this time aware, is a howling waste of extraordinary density, and occupied
entirely by Music Halls, which TIME, for some inexplicable reason, was desirous of visiting
in Mr. Punch's company.

Mr. Punch, though considerably TIME's junior, almost envied his companion's boyish eagerness
for pleasure; he was so evidently unfamiliar with Music Halls.

"If you are expecting to be vastly amused, Sir," Mr. Punch ventured to hint, "I am afraid you
may be just a trifle disappointed."

"Disappointed?" said TIME; "not a bit of it, Sir; not a bit of it! Isn't a Music Hall a place
of entertainment? You've plenty of them where you come from, haven't you? They wouldn't be
filled night after night, as I'm given to understand they are, if they didn't succeed in entertaining,
would they, now?"

Mr. Punch felt a natural reluctance to betray the weak points of any terrestrial institution.

"Oh, our Music Halls? they are perfection, of course," he said. "The entertainments there are
distinguished by humour of the most refined and intellectual order. It only struck me that
they mayn't be quite the same here, you know, that's all."

"We shall see, Sir, we shall see," said TIME. "I don't think I'm particularly difficult to
amuse." By this time they had entered the dazzling hall, and, reclining on sumptuous seats,
were prepared to bestow their best attention upon the proceedings. A stout man with a fair
wig, a dyed moustache and a blue chin, occupied the stage. He was engaged in representing a
Member of the Seriocomican aristocracy with irresistible powers of social fascination, and
he wore a loose-caped cloak over garments of closely-fitting black, which opened in front to
display a mass of crumpled white, amidst which scintillated an enormous jewel. In his hand
he held a curious black disc, with which he beat time to a ditty, of which Mr. Punch only succeeded
in catching the following refrain:--

  "Oh, I 'ave sech a w'y with the loydies! All the dorlins upon me are gorn!
  For they soy--'Yn't he noice! you can tell by his vice,
  He's a toff and a gentleman born!'"

And here the singer suddenly caused the black disc to expand with a faint report to a cylindrical
form of head-dress, which he placed upon one side of his head, amidst thunders of approval.

But TIME seemed rather depressed than exhilarated by this performance.

"He ought to be kicked off the stage," he muttered. "I'd do it myself if I was younger!"

"You would make a mistake," said Mr. Punch; "he is just the person that a Music Hall audience
idolises as their highest ideal of a man and gentleman--in Seriocomix."

"At least," said TIME, "you wouldn't stand such an outrageous cad as that in any of your Music
Halls, I hope?"

A deeper tinge stole into Mr. Punch's already highly-coloured countenance. "Certainly not,"
he replied, with perhaps the slightest suspicion of a gulp. "Our 'Lion Comiques' are without
exception, persons of culture and education, and, if they sing of love at all, it is only to
treat the subject in a chaste and chivalrous spirit. They are worthy examples to all young
people who are privileged to listen to their teachings."

"I wish you could send one or two out to Seriocomix, then, as missionaries," said TIME.

"I wish we could send them all," rejoined Mr. Punch, feelingly, and they went on to another
Music Hall. Here TIME had no sooner perceived the artist who was upon the stage than he exclaimed
indignantly, "Disgraceful, Sir. This man is in no condition to entertain a respectable audience--he
is intoxicated, Sir--look at his tie!"

"I think not," said Mr. Punch, after observing him attentively through his opera-glass; "he
merely affects to be so because the point and humour of the song depend on it. But he has evidently
forced himself to make a close study of the symptoms, or he could hardly have produced so marvellous
an imitation. Art does demand these sacrifices. You will observe that he represents another
Music-Hall ideal--the hero who can absorb the largest known quantity of ardent spirits, and
whose prowess has earned for him the proud title of the Boozer King."

It was a spirited chorus, and the accomplished vocalist reeled in quite a natural manner as
he chanted:--

  "So every pub I enter, boys,
  With welcome the room will ring;
  Make room for him, there, in the centre, boys!
  For he is the Boozer King!
  Yes, give him a seat in the centre, boys.
  Three cheers for our  Boozer King!"

But TIME's worn features exhibited nothing but the strongest disgust.

"Is it possible," he exclaimed, "that this sort of thing can be considered amusing anywhere!"

"It is considered extremely facetious," said Mr. Punch--"in Seriocomix."

"What would they think of such a--such an apotheosis of degradation in one of your Music Halls
at home, eh?" demanded TIME.

Privately, Mr. Punch was of opinion that it would not be at all unpopular. However, he was
not going to admit this:--

"It would be hissed off the stage," he said, courageously. "The fact is, that our Eccentric
Vocalists have always shrunk from the responsibility of presenting a national vice under an
attractive light, and so such exhibitions are absolutely unknown among us."

"I respect them for their scruples," said TIME; "they have their reward in a clear conscience,"
"No doubt," said Mr. Punch. "Shall we go on?" And as TIME had had enough of the Boozer King,
they went on, and entered the next hall, just as a remarkably pretty young girl, with an innocent
rosebud mouth and saucy bright eyes like a bird's, tripped daintily on to the platform.

"Come," said TIME, with more approval than he had yet shown, "this is better--much better.
We need feel no shame is listening to this young lady, at all events. What is she going to
give us? Some tender little love-ditty, I'll be bound?"

She sang of love, certainly, though she treated the subject from rather an advanced point of
view, and this was the song she sang:--

  "True love--you tyke the tip from me--'s all blooming tommy-rot!
  And the only test we go by is--'ow much a man has got?
  So none of you need now despair a girlish 'art to mash,--
  So long as you're provided with the necessairy cash!"

And the chorus was:--

  "You may be an 'owling cad;
  Or be gowing to the bad;
  Or a hoary centenarian, or empty-headed lad;
  Or the merest trifle mad--
  If there's rhino to be had,
  Why, a modern girl will tyke you--yes, and only be too glad!"

As she carolled out this charming ditty in her thin high voice, TIME positively shivered in
his stall, "Are all the girls like that in Seriocomix?" he moaned. "I trust not."

"It seems the fashion to assume so here, at any rate," said Mr. Punch, not without a hazy recollection
of having heard very similar sentiments in Music Halls much nearer home than Seriocomix. "The
young woman is probably an authority on the subject. Are you off already?"

"Yes," said TIME, as he made for the exit. "I think she is going to sing again presently. Come
along!"

At the next Music Hall they were just in time to hear the announcement of a new Patriotic Song,
and old TIME, who had in his day seen great and noble deeds accomplished by men who loved and
were proud of their Fatherland, was disposed to congratulate both himself and the audience
on the choice of topic.

Only, as the song went on, he seemed dissatisfied somehow, as if he had expected some loftier
and more exalted strain. And yet it was a high-spirited song, too, and told the Seriocomicans
what fine fellows they were, and how naturally superior to the inhabitants of all other planets,
while the chorus ran as follows:--

  "Yes, we never stand a foreigner's dictation!
    No matter if we're wrong or if we're right;
  We're a breed of good old bulldogs as a nation,
    And we never stop to bark before we bite!"

