The Heather-Moon

                      By C. N. & A. M. WILLIAMSON

Authors of "The Guests of Hercules," "The Princess Virginia." It was always, always locked,
as is correct, though irritating, for a door that leads to Fairyland.

In Barrie's Outer Life that her grandmother knew, and Miss Hepburn knew, and Mrs. Muir the
housekeeper knew, there was--Heaven be praised!--no romance at all; for romance is an evil
thing, still worse, a frivolous thing, which may be avoided for a well-brought-up girl though
whopping-cough may not; and already this same evil had wrought vast damage among the MacDonalds
of Dhrum. In the Inner Life of Barrie, however, there was nothing worth thinking about except
romance; and the door of the garret stairs was one of the principal roads to the forbidden land.

She stopped in front of it. At first she could not believe her eyes. Her heart had given a
glorious bound, which, only to have felt once in its full ecstasy, was worth the bother of
being born into a family where there were no mothers or fathers, but only--ah, what an awesome
only!--grim old Grandma MacDonald and Grandma MacDonald's grim old house where Carlisle ends
and moorlands begin.

It is difficult to be sure of things when your heart is beating nineteen to the dozen, and
the special thing, or mirage of a thing, seems--judging from all else that has happened in
Outer Life--much too good to be true. Yet there it was, that streak of dull, mote-misted gold,
painting what actually appeared to be a crack between the dark frame of the door and the dark
old door itself--just such gold as Barrie had seen at least once a day ever since she could
remember (except when mumps and measles kept her in bed) by applying an eye to the keyhole.
"Fairy gold" she had named it.

The only person who ever went into the garret was Mrs. Muir, and though she had the air of
making no secret of such expeditions, it had always struck Barrie as deliciously, thrillingly
strange that invariably she turned the key of the stairway door upon herself the instant she
was on the other side, and religiously performed the same ceremony on letting herself out.
"Ceremony" really was the word, because the key was large, ancient, and important-looking,
and squeaked sepulchrally while it turned. Barrie knew all this, because in spring and autumn,
when Mrs. Muir paid her visits to fairylands forlorn beyond the oak door, Barrie lurked under
cover of the convenient, thick, and well-placed shadow behind the grandfather clock on the landing.

It was not autumn now, which was part of the mystery, after these endless years of routine
(they seemed endless to Barrie at eighteen), and she would certainly have missed the event
had this not been her keyhole hour.

Somehow she had become aware--through heredity and race memory, no doubt--that looking through
keyholes was caddish, a trick unworthy of any lady who was at heart a gentleman. But there
are exceptions to all keyholes, and this was one, because, as none save ghosts and fairies
lived or moved behind it in the garret, there was nobody to spy upon. You looked through to
stimulate the romance in your starved soul and save it from death by inanition, because if
romance died, then indeed the Outer Life at Hillard House would be no longer bearable.

Barrie paid her respects to the keyhole o' mornings, for two reasons. The first and commonplace
reason was because Mrs. Muir was busy downstairs and had no eye to spare to see whether other
eyes were glued to the wrong places. The second and more charming reason was because in the
morning the golden haze floated behind the keyhole like shimmering water with the sun shining
deep into it. By afternoon there was nothing left to peer into but cold gray shadow, which
meant that the fairies and other inhabitants were not at home.

Mrs. Muir's motive for visiting the garret out of season was a simple one, but it was well
that Barrie did not know this, for it was not at all interesting, and would have broken the
music, thrown cold water on the thrill. Moths, no respecters of persons or judges of high religious
reputations, had dared to nest in Mrs. MacDonald's best black cashmere dress, which had not
been worn and would not be worn, except on great occasions, until next season, and had mechanically
reduced it to the rate of second best. Moth-powder and moth-balls were exhausted in downstairs
regions, but there was a store of both in the garret; and in her annoyance at having to ascend
at an unprecedented time, and her vexation at an accident such as must happen in the best regulated
families, Mrs. Muir had hurriedly returned with the wanted box, forgetting to lock the door.

Barrie could not be sure that the housekeeper was not even now in the garret; but she had to
find out: and the awful thrill of uncertainty made her next step a high adventure, the adventure
of her life. It was a step onto the garret stairs, and though it meant dangers of all sorts,
she risked them every one, and closed the door behind her. You see, if she had not done this,
any person passing along the landing--a person such as Grandma, or Janet Hepburn--would at
once have seen the streak of gold, a mere yellow crack to them, and then and there would have
arisen a clamour for the key.

Even with the door closed the risk remained in a lesser degree. Mrs. Muir, if she were not
at this moment in the garret, might suddenly remember that she had left the door ajar, taking
away the key; then she would rush back like a stout round whirlwind, and in a minute more Barrie
would be a prisoner, almost like the fair bride in "The Mistletoe Bough," only there was more
air in the garret than in the oak chest that shut with a spring. But Barrie was used to taking
risks--risks insignificant compared with this, yet big enough to supply salt and sugar for
the dry daily bread of existence.

The door shut softly, but--mercy, what creaks those steps had in them! They seemed to be vying
with each other, the heartless brutes, as to which could shriek the loudest under a girl's
light foot. Probably they had never seen a girl before, or if they had, it was so long ago
they had forgotten. Fancy Grandma a girl! No wonder, if the steps remembered her, that they
yelled----But by this time Barrie's head had arrived at the top of the steep stairs, and her
eyes were peering cautiously through clouds of gold dust along the level of a floor, mountainous
in its far horizon with piled chests, trunks, and furniture.

The gold poured through three very high, small dormer-windows which until now Barrie had known
only from outside, staring up at the ivied house wall from the east garden. The dust lived
in the garret air, and was different from, more wonderful and mysterious than, any other dust,
except perhaps the dust far off in the distance at sunset, where motor-cars you could not see
passed along a road invisible.

Barrie couldn't be quite certain at first whether the garret was empty of human life, or whether
Mrs. Muir was likely to pounce upon her with reproaches from behind one of those immense oak
posts which went up like trees to meet the high beamed roof. Or she might be concealed by an
oasis of furniture. There were several such oases in the large wilderness of garret, which
covered the whole upper story of the old house. But a lovely garret it was, a heavenly garret!
even better than Barrie had dreamed it might be, with her eye at the keyhole of the stairway
door. It was peopled with possibilities--glorious, echoing, beckoning possibilities--which
made her heart beat as she could not remember its beating before.

She climbed the remaining steps regardless of squeaks, because she could not any longer bear
the suspense concerning Mrs. Muir. Nothing moved in answer to the old wood's complainings,
and there was no other sound, or rather there were no real sounds such as are made by people;
but when Barrie reached the head of the stairs the whole garret was full, to her ears, of delicate
rustlings and whisperings, sighs and footfalls and breathings, and scurryings out of sight.

No, Mrs. Muir was not here, or by this time she would be out in the open and scolding hard.

Barrie drew in deep breaths of the strange, still atmosphere which was like air that had been
put to sleep years and years ago. It must have smelt exactly like this, she thought quietly,
in the lost palace of La Belle Dormante when the Prince found his way in through barricading
thickets. Barrie would hardly have been surprised if she had stumbled upon a Sleeping Beauty.
If she had, she would have said to herself, "So that's the secret Mrs. Muir's been hiding,
by keeping the door locked up. I told you so!"

The scent of the garret fascinated Barrie, and made her heart beat heavily, as if she were
on the threshold of a mystery. It was made up of many odours: a faint, not unpleasant mustiness,
the smell of dust, a perfume of old potpourri, and spices, cloves, and camphor for moths, a
vague fragrance of rosewood and worm-eaten oak, a hint of beeswax, a tang of unaired leather
and old books.

Barrie suddenly felt perfectly happy. For to-day this wonderful place with all its secrets
was hers. She hardly knew what to explore first. All the really interesting things in the house
seemed to have risen to the top, like cream on milk. Along a part of one wall opposite the
stairs and under the east windows whence came the morning gold were ranged rough old bookcases,
a kind of alms-house for indigent books, or a prison for condemned volumes. But what books!
Barrie was drawn to them as by many magnets, and almost tremulously taking down one after another,
she understood the reason of their banishment. Here were all the darling books which used to
live down in the library, and had been exiled because she dipped into them, they being (according
to Grandma and Miss Hepburn) "most unsuitable for nice-minded girls." Barrie had mourned her
friends as dead, but they had been only sleeping. And there were others, apparently far more
unsuitable for nice-minded girls--old leather-bound books with quaint wood engravings and thick
yellow pages printed with old-fashioned "s's" like "f's." Barrie could have browsed among this
company for hours, but there were so many things to see in the garret, so little time for seeing
them, that she felt compelled merely to say "How do you do, and good-bye," to each allurement.

Her eyes, roaming like a pair of crusading knights in search of romance, lighted suddenly on
a pile or group of furniture in a distant corner. There was other furniture in the garret,
certainly more interesting to a connoisseur and hunter of antiquities; but Barrie was neither.
She had contrived to seize upon a good deal of queer miscellaneous knowledge outside lesson
hours, yet she did not know the difference between Sheraton and Hepplewhite. Chairs and sideboards
and settees of Georgian days and earlier had been relegated to this vast pound of unwanted
things, while their places were dishonourably filled downstairs by mid-Victorian monstrosities
which Mrs. MacDonald instinctively approved, no doubt because they could offer no temptation
to the eye. Barrie might have felt the beauty of the graceful lines if she had given her attention
to these scattered relics of a past before there was a Grandma; but a group of very different
furniture beckoned her curiosity.

The fact that there was a group, and that it seemed in the dimness to be alike in colour and
design, suggested mystery of some sort; and, besides, it was almost impossible to imagine such
furniture adorning this house.

Evidently it had been taken bodily out of one room. Why? As she asked herself this question
Barrie threaded her way delicately along narrow paths between chairs, extraordinary leather
or hairy cowhide trunks and thrilling bandboxes of enormous size, made quaintly beautiful with
Chinese wall-paper. She wanted to examine the grouped furniture whose pale coverings and gilded
wood glimmered attractively even in the darkest corner of the garret.

It certainly was the darkest and farthest. Was this a coincidence, or had there been a special
reason for huddling these things out of sight? There was not even a clear path to them, though
there seemed to have been method in planning most of the lanes that led from one luggage or
furniture village to another. Nothing led to this village built against a wall. Its site was
in a no-thoroughfare, and, perhaps by design, perhaps by accident, a barricade had been erected
before it; not a very high barricade, but a wall or series of stumbling-blocks made up of useless
litter. If there could be a special corner of disgrace in this land where all things were under
decree of banishment, here was the corner.

By means of crawling over, under, and between numerous strangely assorted objects which formed
the barricade, the intruder arrived, somewhat the worse for wear, at her destination. The furniture
village was composed, she discovered, of a set of blue satin-covered chairs and sofas, with
elaborately carved and gilded frames. There were tables to match, and an empty glass cabinet,
two long mirrors with marble brackets underneath, also a highly ornamental chest of drawers
and a bedstead of gilded cane and wood, with cupids holding garlands of carved roses.

Barrie began talking to herself half aloud, according to long-established habit. "Good gracious
me!" she exclaimed so inelegantly that it was well Miss Hepburn could not hear. "What things
to find in this house! They're like--like canary birds in an ironmonger's shop. Who could have
owned them?"

Suddenly the answer flashed into her head, and sent the blood to her face as if she had received
a stinging slap such as Grandma used to give: "These things were my mother's!"

How insulting that these traces of the vanished one should have been hustled into a dingy hole
where no self-righteous eyes could be offended by the sight of them! How frivolous and daintily
young they looked, even in their dusty and (Barrie was furiously sure) undeserved disgrace!
This was the secret of the locked garret!

The girl occasionally had moments of hatred for Grandma: moments when she thought it would
have delighted her to see the grim old Puritan scoffed at and humiliated, or even tortured.
At the picture of torture, however, Barrie's heart invariably failed, and in fancy she rescued
the victim. But never had she hated Mrs. MacDonald so actively as now.

"My mother!" she said again. "How dared the wicked old creature be such a brute to her!"

For Barrie was certain that these were relics of her mother's presence in the house. She knew
the history of every other woman who had ever lived here since the place was built in the seventeenth
century by an Alexander Hillard, an ancestor of Grandma's. A forbidding old prig he must have
been, judging from the portrait over the dining-room mantelpiece, a worthy forbear of Ann Hillard,
who had married Barrie's grandfather, John MacDonald of Dhrum. Barrie often said to herself
that she did not feel related to Grandma. She wanted to be all MacDonald and--whatever her
mother had been. But it was just that which she did not know, and not a soul would tell. This
was her grievance, the great and ever-burning grievance as well as mystery of her otherwise
commonplace existence; a conspiracy of silence which kept the secret under lock and key.

Because of Mrs. MacDonald's "taboo," Barrie's mother had become her ideal. The girl felt that
whatever Grandma disapproved must be beautiful and lovable; and there had been enough said,
as well as enough left unsaid whenever dumbness could mean condemnation, to prove that the
old woman had detested her daughter-in-law.

All Barrie knew about the immediate past of her family was that her father's people had once
been rich, and as important as their name implied. They were the MacDonalds of Dhrum, an island
not far from Skye, but they had lost their money; and while old Mrs. MacDonald was still a
young married woman (it seemed incredible that she could have been young!) she and her husband,
with their one boy, had come to her old home near Carlisle. This one boy had grown up to marry--Somebody,
or, according to the standards of Grandma, Nobody, a creature beyond the pale. The bride must
have died soon, for even Barrie's elastic memory, which could recall first steps taken alone
and first words spoken unprompted, had no niche in it for a mother's image, though father's
portrait was almost painfully distinct. It presented a young man very tall, very thin, very
sad, very dark. The frame for this portrait was the black oak of the library wainscoting, picked
out with the faded gold on backs of books in a uniform binding of brown leather. Once a day
Barrie had been escorted by her nurse to the door of the library and left to the tender mercies
of this sad young man, who raised his eyes resignedly from reading or writing to emit a "How
do you do?" as if she were a grown-up stranger. After this question and a suitable reply, not
much conversation followed, for neither could think of anything to say. After an interval of
strained politeness, the child was dismissed to play or lessons--generally lessons, even from
the first, for play had never been considered of importance in Hillard House. It was nobler,
in the estimation of Grandma, and perhaps of father, to learn how to spell "the fat cat sat
on the black rug," rather than to sprawl personally on the black rug, sporting in company with
the fat cat.

One day, Barrie remembered, she had been told that father was ill and she could not bid him
good morning. She had been treacherously glad, for father was depressing; but when days passed
and she was still kept from him, it occurred to her that after all father was much, much nicer
than Grandma, and that his eyes, though sad, were kind. The next and last time she ever saw
him, the kind sad eyes were shut, and he was lying in a queer bed, like a box. He was white
as a doll made of porcelain which he had once given her, and Grandma, who led the child into
his room, said that he was dead. The sleeping figure in the box was only the body, and the
soul had gone to heaven. Heaven, according to Grandma, who wore black and had red rims round
her eyes, was a place high up above the sky where if you were a sheep you played constantly
on a harp and sang songs. If you were a goat, you did not get there at all, which might have
been preferable, except for the fact that being a goat doomed you to burn in everlasting fire.
Sheep were saved, goats were damned; and, of course, the sheep must be deserving and clever
if they had learned to sing and play on harps.

Barrie thought she could have been no more than three when her father died, but she never cared
to question Grandma concerning the episode, after a day when Mrs. MacDonald said in an icy
voice, "Your mother was before God guilty of your father's death." That was years ago now,
but Barrie had not forgotten the shock, or the hateful, thwarted feeling, almost like suffocation,
when Grandma had answered an outbreak of hers with the words, "The less you know about your
mother the better for you. And the less like her you grow up, the more chance you will have
of escaping punishment in this world and the next."

