Transcriber's notes:

      This booklet appears to end abruptly, but there is no
      evidence of any missing pages in the original copy.

      The "oe" and "OE" ligatures are represented as "[oe]"
      and "[OE]" respectively.

      Superscripted text is not displayed as such in the text
      version. Superscripts are displayed in the HTML version.

      On page 20, a cross symbol, which indicates year of death,
      is represented as {+}.

      A list of corrections will be found at the end of the
      e-text.

The Cathedral of Strasburg

Strasburg A. Vix & Cie Publishers

HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE CATHEDRAL OF STRASBURG

Twenty fourth Edition

Strasburg Published by A. Vix & Cie 31, Place de la Cathédrale 1922.

I. HISTORY

Among the wonderful monuments to which the religious art of the middle ages has given rise
and which will for ever excite the admiration of men, the church of Notre-Dame or Cathedral
of Strasburg occupies one of the first ranks. By its dimensions, the richness of the ornaments
and figures that adorn its exterior, by the majesty of its nave, and by its light steeple,
which towers towards Heaven with as much grace as boldness, this house of God proclaims afar
its destination and leaves a deep and indelible impression on the soul of any one who gazes on it.

Exhibiting in all its different parts models of every epoch of christian architecture, this
Cathedral is for the artist a subject of serious study and for the inhabitant of Strasburg
a venerable monument, which recalls to his mind the principal events of the ancient history
of our city.

According to some old traditions, the Cathedral is built on a spot, which, from the remotest
times, had been devoted to worship. Originally this spot formed a hill sloping westward into
a cavity, which was filled up many centuries ago. Around it, the Celts, the first inhabitants
of our country, built their huts: its summit was covered by the sacred wood, in the midst of
which rose the druidical dolmen. It was there that those barbarians offered sacrifices to Esus,
their God of war, sacrifices which, in times of public calamity, were human victims.

After the conquest of Gaul by the Romans, a regular and fortified town was very soon founded
on the place hitherto occupied by the scattered habitations of the Celts. The old name of Argentorat
was alone preserved; it signified a town where the river is crossed over. It was there, according
to tradition, that a temple dedicated to Hercules and Mars succeeded the druidical forest.
There is nothing unlikely in these traditions; the high ground on which the Cathedral stands
speaks as much in their favour as the pagan statues found in the neighbourhood[1].

  [1] A brass statue of Hercules, called Krutzmann, was found
  among the christian statues that decorated the Cathedral; it was
  taken down in 1525 and is no longer extant. A Hercules of stone,
  found no doubt when digging the foundations, is yet seen in a
  niche of the northward tower, where it juts out into the nave. A
  small stone figure of Mars, coming also from the Cathedral, was
  preserved in the town-library, but it appeared to be modern.

With respect to the first erection of a christian church in this place, history is destitute
of authentic facts. Some old chronicles report that about the middle of the fourth century,
saint Amand built a church on the ruins of a Roman temple, but the existence of this supposed
first bishop of Strasburg is even very doubtful. During the first years of the fifth century,
the invasion of barbarians filled the provinces of Gaul with terror and devastation; the German
tribes that crossed the Rhine plundered the Roman city of Argentorat and its temples. Nobody
knows whether from that time new inhabitants settled in the midst of these ruins, or whether
they served but as temporary abodes to the hordes successively coming into Gaul.

It was only after the conquest of that extensive country by the Franks that, about 510, Clovis
had a church built at Argentorat, no doubt on the spot where the Cathedral now stands. The
architecture of that church was as coarse and barbarous as the spirit of those times; it was
built of wood and supported by earthen walls, extending from East to West; on this latter end
was the front-gate and before it a portico; besides the principal nave it had two aisles; the
western side opening into a yard that served as a passage to the priest's house.

In proportion as the town, the name of which was by the Franks changed into Strasburg, increased
in importance and population, the Merovegian kings granted greater favours to the church founded
by one of their predecessors. The valuable donations they bestowed on the bishopric of Strasburg,
enabled the inhabitants to embellish and enlarge the Cathedral. In 675 Dagobert II granted
to bishop Arbogast the town of Ruffach with the castle of Isenburg and a vaste domain that
he freed from tax and royal jurisdiction and which on that account was called superior Mundat.
A no less important gift was that from Count Rudhart, who made over to the church of Strasburg,
in 748, Ettenheim with several neighbouring villages on the right bank of the Rhine. Many other
eminent personages of this country increased successively by their liberality the wealth of
the episcopal see. A great advantage was granted by Charlemain in 775, which was to exempt
the subjects of the bishopric from all tolls and taxes imposed upon the traders travelling
through the empire. At that time considerable sums had already been employed to adorn the interior
of the Cathedral. In the year 826, the abbot Ermold the Black, living in exile at Strasburg,
speaks with enthusiasm of the beautiful temple of the Virgin and of the other altars that decorate
it. This ecclesiastic, with great ardour changed the metal of the antique statues he could
yet find into sacred vases; a bronze Hercules, two cubits high, alone escaped the pursuit of
his pious zeal; after preserving it several centuries in the Cathedral, it was at last sold,
and is now at Issy near Paris.

A fire, which in 873 destroyed a portion of the church and all its archives, occasioned, no
doubt, important repairs, and this event was the cause of a new royal confirmation of all the
possessions of the church. In 1002 it was plundered, profaned and set on fire by the soldiers
of Hermann, duke of Suabia and Alsacia, who was then contending with Henry of Bavaria for the
imperial crown, Strasburg and its bishop Wernher having declared for the latter. Subdued by
Henry II, Hermann was compelled to repair the damage caused to the church by placing at bishop
Wernher's disposal the income of the abbey of Saint-Stephen of which he was the patron. With
these funds, which the bishop increased by means of a new levy of taxes and by indulgences,
he was preparing to restore his Cathedral, when in 1007 a thunderbolt achieved its destruction.

He then formed the project of rebuilding the church on a plan of much larger dimensions and
after the style of architecture that was then making its first appearance. The revenues of
the bishopric, contributions furnished by the clergy of Alsacia and large sums of money granted
by the head of the empire, afforded Wernher the necessary resources for the execution of his
plan. This was examined and discussed in the presence of several master-architects whom he
had sent for. The plan once fixed upon, stones were brought from the fine quarries of free-stone
in the Kronthal. The peasants and bondsmen of the country brought them to the town where they
were cut in the square then called Frohnhof, between the Cathedral and the present palace.
It was during these labours that in 1042 the emperor Henry II came to Strasburg; the dignified
and austere deportment of the clergy of the high chapter, the tranquillity prevailing under
the roof of the episcopal church, made such an impression on this prince, that he for a moment
resolved to resign the crown and solicit his admittance among the canons of the Cathedral.
The bishop appeared at first to accede to this wish; but it was only to prescribe to Henry,
henceforth his subordinate, to resume the imperial authority which Providence had bestowed
on him; the emperor acquiesced and perpetuated the remembrance of his pious wish by the foundation
of a royal prebend.

When, in 1015, a sufficient quantity of materials was collected, they set to work by digging
the ground. At the depth of more than five fathoms they drove down stakes, filled the space
between them with clay mixed with lime, fragments of bricks and coal; and on this solid base
were laid the foundation stones.

Tradition gives an account of a hundred and even two hundred thousand men being employed in
the construction of this church, which work, thanks to the religious enthusiasm of that epoch
and the labours performed by vassals and workmen for the salvation of their souls, advanced
very rapidly.

In the year 1027 bishop Wernher set out for Constantinople, and never returned to his native
land. From that time we have but imperfect and uncertain accounts touching the progress of
the building. All we know is, that in 1028 they had built up to the roof. It seems likely from
that account that this monument, built in the byzantine style, at once so elegant and so simple,
was soon after completed by the erection of a tower, and that it remained in the same state
till, owing to sundry circumstances and, perhaps, to bad construction, it began to need important
repair. It is impossible to determine the time when repairing the church took place; however,
this happened probably not before the middle of the thirteenth century and in the then new
style, since called the Gothic order. This opinion is confirmed by the ancient seal of our
city, which likely enough and according to the custom of those times, represents the front
of the Cathedral.

That it had a tower in 1130 is a certain fact; for K[oe]nigscoven speaks of its destruction
by fire in the course of that year; successive fires, in 1140, 1150, 1176 also materially injured
the beautiful edifice; besides, the continual wars and tumultuous commotions of the time prevented
the bishops from undertaking essential repairs. It appears that these causes, by degrees, brought
on the complete ruin of bishop Wernher's constructions; for unquestionably the part included
between the nave and the two towers dates but from the thirteenth century, and cannot have
been begun before the middle of it. What remained of the old church was pulled down at that
time and a new and more spacious edifice was erected, built in the style then spreading over
all Europe. Considering the immense size of this monument, it is easy to imagine that the work
went on but slowly, and an old chronicle mentions that on the 7th September 1275 they finished
the middle part of the superior arch-roofs, with the exception of the towers in front. By whom
these labours were directed is altogether unknown.

It was bishop Conrad of Lichtenberg who undertook to rebuild the parts that were still in a
state of ruin and thus at last to accomplish this great work of the Cathedral[1].

  [1] «... Ipsa ecclesia in meliorum statuum reedificetur ...»
  (See a charter of bishop Conrad of Lichtenberg, published by M.
  L. SPACE 1841, p. 6).

In order to execute this design, he published indulgences all over the country; and after collecting
large sums of money in the town, he applied to the ecclesiastics of his diocese, asking their
own gifts and offerings as well as those of the faithful under their direction; in a synod
held in the diocese, the clergy agreed to give up, during four years, a fourth part of their
revenues. Conrad entrusted the direction of this work to Master Erwin of Steinbach, who, according
to some old documents, was a native of Mayence. This great architect began by rebuilding the
nave, the arch-roofs of which were completed in 1275. Then he commenced the façade of the church
and its towers from a plan so bold and sublime that the conception of it places Erwin for ever
at the head of the architects of the middle age[1]. In 1276 they laid the foundation of the
northern tower; to consecrate the spot, the bishop walked solemnly round it, then took a trowel
in his hand and thrust it into the ground, as a sign for beginning the work. They relate that
a quarrel having occured between two workmen who both wished to work with the trowel the bishop
had held in his hand, one of them was killed. This murder was considered as a very bad omen;
Conrad ordered their labour to be suspended for nine days; they were only resumed after he
had consecrated the place anew. The following year, on saint Urban's day (25th May), Conrad
himself laid the first stone of the tower. In the midst of his warfares, this bishop always
entertained much affection for his Cathedral, as he beheld the gradual rising of this glorious
work, as an old inscription terms it[2]; in his heartfelt joy he used to compare it to the
flowers of May that bloom in the sun[3]. To the very end of his life Conrad of Lichtenberg
neglected nothing to urge on the progress of his work of predilection; after his death, in
1299, he received in it a sepulchre worthy of him; his statue is still to be seen in saint
John's chapel. Yet, during the life of Conrad, the Cathedral was shaken by several earthquakes
in 1279, 1289, 1291; that of 1289 was so violent that the columns in the interior of the building
threatened for a moment to fall down. But a very favourable circumstance happened in 1292,
which was the surrender of the [OE]uvre-Notre-Dame to the magistrate of the city, who was henceforth
charged with the management of the revenues allotted to the keeping in repair of the Church
and consequently also to the completion of it. A few years after, in 1298, a new misfortune
happened to the Cathedral. A fire, caused by the imprudence of a cavalier of Albert I, during
the sojourn of that prince at Strasburg, consumed all the timberwork and threatened even the
pillars and walls. However the damage was promptly repaired. In 1302 a bloody conflict between
two citizens of the town, which took place in the very chancel of the church, required again
a new consecration of it.

  [1] They still preserve in the records of the convent of the
  [OE]uvre Notre-Dame several old drawings on parchment of the
  façade and towers; these curious designs belong to different
  epochs; according to the opinion of the connaisseurs, the
  oldest would most likely be that of Erwin himself.

  [2] Anno Domini MCCLXXVII in die beati Urbani hoc gloriosum
  opus inchoavit magister Erwinus de Steinbach. This inscription
  was formerly placed in the vault of the northern portal.

  [3] In a letter of indulgence.

After the death of bishop Conrad of Lichtenberg, who in the year 1299 was killed in a battle
near Friburg, his brother and successor, Frederic, showed no less ardour for the continuation
of this building; in 1303 he invited the curates throughout Alsacia to exhort those of their
faithful parishioners who had horses and carts, to convey stones for the edifice; in 1308 the
magistrate of Strasburg, no doubt at the request of bishop John, promised freepasses to all
those who would bring stones or wood, and he secured wine and wheat for the workmen.

Erwin superintended the works until 1318, when he died on the 14th of January. All the children
of this grand master were artists worthy of him: Sabina, his daughter, carved several statues
for the Cathedral; one of his sons, who died in 1330, built the fine church of Haslach; his
other son, John, succeeded him in directing the works of the Cathedral, and he died in 1339.
In 1331 bishop Berthold of Bucheck built the chapel of saint Catherine, which also contains
his tomb. The disturbances and calamities that desolated Strasburg during a great part of the
fourteenth century, the revolution of 1332 that altered the form of the government of the town,
the ravage caused by the black plague in 1349 with the insurrections accompanying it, the contest
of bishop Berthold with his chapter and with the emperor, all this retarded of course the progress
of the construction of the Cathedral. Nevertheless they terminated in 1365 the northern tower;
K[oe]nigshoven calls it the new tower, perhaps, because they purposed erecting a pyramid on
it, which was quite an innovation in the architecture of that time. The southern tower, which
the chronicler calls the ancient one, because it was not intended to be raised higher, was
finished at the same time. The name of the artist who made the plan of the pyramid and spire
of the northern tower is still unknown; nor is it known who built the steeple which formerly
rose above the grande rosace, or rose.

In 1368 the church was again struck by lightning without receiving much damage; in 1384 a fire
that broke out in the organ, burnt all the interior with the exception of the chancel. Ever
since that time large vats were set in the different parts of the building and guardians placed
in the interior and in the towers. In 1429, John Hültz of Cologne was sent for to complete
this great work; ten years after, he finished the spire; on Midsummer's day 1439, in the presence
of a great multitude, he laid the last stone, exactly a hundred and sixty two years after Conrad
of Lichtenberg had placed the first stone of this monument; a statue of the Virgin Mary was
also erected on the knob terminating the spire[1].

  [1] It was taken down in 1488.

At the time of the reformation the Cathedral passed over to the protestants; it is true that
on account of their worship, they caused several chapels to be closed and some altars to be
removed, but they made no material change, nor spoiled any thing; on the contrary, they watched
with care over the magnificent building and even caused important repairs to be made in it.
Several times it was very much injured by fire and by lightning, particularly in the years
1540, 1555, 1568, 1624 and 1625. In 1654 the spire was destroyed by lightning; the skilful
architect Heckler was obliged to rebuild it sixty five feet high. By the capitulation of 1681
the Cathedral was restored to the catholics, who immediately began to repair it, but unfortunately
in that wretched style then prevailing, and when not the least intelligence of christian art
existed any longer, they pulled down the lobby made by Erwin, so much admired in the middle
age as a masterpiece of elegance; in 1692 they adorned the interior of the choir with wainscots
of wood painted and gilt; in 1732 they widened it to the detriment of a portion of the nave,
and ten years later galleries were made for the orchestra. To punish, as it would seem, those
who were thus spoiling this wonderful monument, an earthquake shook it in 1728; in 1759 it
was struck by lightning and considerably injured; the lead on the roof of the nave was entirely
melted, and the fine cupola or arched roof that crowned the dome fell into pieces; the roof
was then covered with copper, but the cupola was not rebuilt. New destructions awaited the
Cathedral in 1793; in their fury of levelling, the men who then ruled the country caused two
hundred and thirty four effigies of saints and kings to be taken down from their niches, of
which very few only were saved; the crazy jacobin Teterel even proposed pulling down the spire,
because, by its height extending far beyond that of the ordinary houses, it was condemning
the principle of equality; the motion not being carried on. Teterel obtained the assurance
at least, that a large red cap made of tin should be placed on the top of the Cathedral, and
it was to be seen among other curiosities in the town-library, before its destruction.

The year 1870, so full of important events for Strasburg, was also fatal for the Cathedral,
and during the seven weeks' cannonading of the town the beautiful building was constantly threatened
with ruin. In the first period of the siege of Strasburg, the Germans tried to force the surrender
by the bombardment and partial destruction of the inner town. In the night of the 23rd of August
began for the frightened inhabitants the real time of terror; however that night the rising
conflagrations, for instance in St. Thomas' church, were quickly put out. But in the following
night the New-Church, the Library of the town, the Museum of paintings and many of the finest
houses became a heap of ruins, and under the hail of shells all efforts to extinguish the fire
were useless. For the Cathedral the night from the 25th to 26th of August was the worst. Towards
midnight the flames broke out from the roof perforated by shells, and increased by the melting
copper, they rose to a fearful height beside the pyramid of the spire. The sight of this grand
volume of flames, rising above the town, was indescribable and tinged the whole sky with its
glowing reflection. And the guns went on thundering and shattering parts of the stone ornaments
which adorned the front and sides of the Cathedral. The whole roof came down and the fire died
out only for want of fuel. The following morning the ground in the interior was covered with
ruins, and through the holes in the vault of the nave one could see the blue sky. The beautiful
Organ built by Silbermann was pierced by a shell and the magnificent painted windows were in
great part spoiled. Fortunately the celebrated astronomical Clock had escaped unhurt.

As the Military Command continued for some time to occupy a post of observation on the platform,
the Cathedral was unfortunately still longer the aim of German guns which every day surrounded
the building with ruins. On the 4th of September two shells hit the crown of the Cathedral
and hurled the stonemasses to incredible distances; on the 15th a shot came even into the point
below the Cross, which was bent on one side, and had its threatened fall only prevented by
the iron bars of the lightning conductor which held it.

After the entrance of the Germans into the reconquered town, the difficult and dangerous work
of restauration of the point of the spire was begun at once and happily ended a few months
after. They work also constantly to make the other damages disappear, and in a short time the
magnificent house of God will be restored to all its ancient splendour.

II. DESCRIPTION.

The first aspect of the Cathedral produces on the mind a deep impression. One is seized with
admiration and amazed at the first view of this noble edifice whose steeple towers up so gracefully
and majestically. No doubt that examined in all its particular parts, one may also be struck
with the disproportion that exists between them; the nave is not in harmony with the dimensions
of the tower, the chancel and transept still less so: but although this want of uniformity
may lessen the symmetry of the monument, the impression it at first produces is no less extraordinary.
And besides, have not those different styles a particular interest for those who study the
history of architecture? In the Cathedral are, as it were, brought together all the styles
or orders of architecture of the middle ages, from the byzantine art with its grave simplicity,
down to the last glimmerings of the gothic art, now declining, and its works lined with an
excess of superfluous ornaments. The byzantine taste prevails in the first constructions of
the chancel and aisles and even somewhat in the lower part of the nave; higher up, the style
in which the ogive was built extends to the other constructions and finally succeeds to the
former entirely.

The façade of the church, of an imposing magnitude, cannot be sufficiently admired; the massive
walls are hidden by clochetoons, arcades, small pillars and innumerable statues; these decorations
all wrought to great perfection, give to that part of the edifice a nicety that makes it resemble
a work coming from the hands of a chaser. But how to describe, in the short space which the
limits of this sketch admit, all the details, all the particular parts of our Cathedral? There
is in it such a profusion, such a richness, that to be properly explored, it would require
volumes. We must therefore limit ourselves to some brief indications of the most interesting
and essential parts[1]. Moreover a description of all the allegorical statues and figures that
adorn particularly the inferior parts of the building, would be here so much the more superfluous,
as an intelligent spectator may easily understand them. All these fine ornaments are meant
to symbolize the mysteries of Redemption, taken from the principal facts in Scripture and from
the fundamental doctrines of the christian faith. In this respect the lower tier is the most
remarkable; the middle one has neither the same beauty nor the same religious signification;
the third is the least satisfactory both as regards execution and artistical conception.

  [1] We refer the reader who wishes to study the Cathedral in
  all its parts, to the following works: Grandidier, Essais
  historiques et topographiques sur l'église Cathédrale de
  Strasbourg, Strasb. 1782, in 8o.--H. Schreiber, Das Münster
  zu Strassburg, Freib. 1828, in 8o, avec 11 lithographies gr.
  in-fol.--Vues pittoresques de la Cathédrale de Strasbourg,
  dessins par Chapuy et texte par Schweighäuser, 3 livr. in-fol.
  Strasb. 1827. La Cathédrale de Strasbourg et ses détails, par
  A. Friedrich, 4 liv. gr. in-fol., renfermant 57 planches
  accompagnées d'un texte explicatifet historique. We regret to
  say that but one number of this fine work has been published
  (in 1839).--Kunst und Alterthum in Elsass-Lothringen, von
  Prot. F. X. Kraus, I. Band. With numerous wood-engravings. 1877.

The whole of the façade is formed of the two fore-parts of the northern and southern towers
and of the large central porch; these three distinct portions are separated by counterforts
or pillars which divide, as it were, the frontispiece into three broad vertical bands, each
of which has its portico. These porticos and their frontons are ornamented with a great many
statues and bas-reliefs, some of which pulled down during the revolution, have since been replaced.
The large figures in the left portico are twelve virgins, wearing diadems and trampling down
human forms representing the seven deadly sins. On both sides of the right hand portico are
seen the ten virgins of the parable; to the group of the wise virgins on the right is joined
the statue of Jesus-Christ; the foolish virgins composing the group on the left side, have
among them an allegoric figure expressing the lust of the world: on her head is a wreath, in
one hand she holds an apple, the ancient symbol of lust; her back bears hideous vipers, to
portray the sad fate which must be the inevitable result of inordinate earthly desires.

All these statues, now blackened by the centuries that have passed over them, have all a stern
appearance, like those that deck the magnificent middle porch representing either prophets
of the Old Testament, Apostles or fathers of the Church. In the arches of these three porticos
are figures of a smaller size, which like the bas-reliefs of the tympans, exhibit either scenes
taken from Scripture, or saints and angels. In the tympan on the right hand door, Jesus is
seen seated on a rain-bow, and over him is the Resurrection of the dead and the Judgment-day.
On the butting pillar that divides both folds of the middle porch[1], is placed a blessed Virgin
holding an infant Christ in her arms. The fronton of this portal is formed by two triangles
and adorned with many figures; that on the summit of the interior triangle, which first strikes
the eye, is king Solomon seated under a canopy; on both sides of him are fourteen lions raised
on steps or benches that draw near towards the top and join near a Virgin Mary sitting with
the infant Christ on one arm and holding a globe in her other hand; she is the Patroness of
the church. Above her a radiated head, representing God the Father, forms the point of the
triangle that encircles the inside fronton, which is decked with figures playing on different
musical instruments. On the sides facing the North and South, the two towers have each a large
window with most beautiful rosaces. Over the window on the South side is seen a very old sculpture,
the grotesque figures of which represent the night revelling of sorcerers. The frontons of
the other porticos are also adorned with rosaces.

  [1] The beautiful folds of the middle door, mounted with artful
  bronze ornaments which were executed in Paris after the designs
  of the architect of our cathedral, Mr. Klotz, were hung up in
  1879.

On the second tier of the middle porch is a large rose-window that occupies the whole width
of it. It is surrounded by a detached arch, which as much on account of the elegance of its
workmanship, as of the boldness of its construction, is one of the most admirable parts of
the Cathedral. The large painted windows have been repaired by skilful artists, Mr. Ritter
and Mr. Müller. Where the second tier begins, at the bottom of the rose-window, are four equestrian
statues, placed in niches in the counterforts, three of which, those of Clovis, Dagobert and
Rodolphe of Habsburg, were erected in 1291, the fourth, that of Louis XIV, was placed only
in 1828. Clovis and Dagobert were the benefactors of the church of Strasburg. Rodolphe stands
there, less on account of his liberalities to the Cathedral, than for having been to the last
the valiant friend of the Republic of Strasburg. King Louis XIV accompanies the three others,
rather from adulation than any other cause. On the upper tier of the façade are placed the
equestrian statues of king Pepin the Short, of Charlemain, Otho the Great and Henry I the Fowler.
On the south-side are seen in the first tier the emperors Otho II, Otho III and Henry II; in
the upper tier of the same side, the equestrian statues of Conrad II, Henry III and the statue
of Henry IV. On the north-side of the façade are the equestrian statues of Charles Martel,
the Franconian majordomo; of Louis the Debonair and Lotharius, the son of Louis the Debonair;
at last in the upper tier, the statues of Charles the Bald, king of the West-Franconians and
the equestrian statues of Lotharius II and Louis the German ({+}876).

Over the rose-window, but still in the compartment of the second tier, is a gallery furnished
with the figures of the Apostles, and above them is placed Jesus-Christ holding in his hands
a cross and banner. In the lateral towers, the same tier is taken up on each side by a high
broad window in the shape of an ogee, before which rise very slender pillars. Exactly over
these windows, on the third tier and also on each side, are three very high and narrow windows;
the middle part, though wider, has but two, rather small ones, and surrounded by some statues.
This very massive portion of the building betrays at first sight its later origin; when Erwin's
plan was abandoned, this part was added to fill up the empty space between the two towers;
these were already completed, and even have on the third tier their windows looking into the
central porch, but which are at present hidden from the outside. That part of the middle porch
is used as a belfry, four large bells are suspended in it, the largest of which, cast in 1427,
weighs nine thousand kilogrammes, and serves to announce great festival days; it is also rung
at the death of renowned personages, or in case of fire.

It was only in the year 1849 that the front was ornamented with statues representing the day
of judgment. This group, consisting of fifteen gigantic figures, was made after the old drawings
preserved in the archives of the [OE]uvre-Notre-Dame. Jesus-Christ, as judge, is in the middle,
with Mary and John the Baptist on either side; they are surrounded by angels sounding the trumpet
of dooms-day, or bearing the instruments of our Saviour's passion; beneath are seen the Evangelists,
having men's bodies surmounted by the heads of the four symbols which generally accompany them.

