Then, at the Emperor's command, his trumpeters sounded their trumpets so defiantly that the
very earth trembled and shook; and the two hosts joined battle, rushing at one another with
mighty shouts. Many knights fought nobly that day, but none more nobly than King Arthur. Riding
up and down the battle-field, he exhorted his knights to bear themselves bravely; and wherever
the fray was thickest, and his people most sorely pressed, he dashed to the rescue and hewed
down the Romans with his good sword Excalibur. Among those he slew was a marvelous great giant
called Galapus. First of all, King Arthur smote off this giant's legs by the knees, saying
that made him a more convenient size to deal with, and then he smote off his head. Such was
the hugeness of the body of Galapus, that, as it fell, it crushed six Saracens to death.

But though King Arthur fought thus fiercely, and Sir Gawaine and all the other knights of the
Round Table did nobly, the host of their enemies was so great that it seemed as if the battle
would never come to an end, the Britons having the advantage at one moment and the Romans at
another.

Now, among the Romans, no man fought more bravely than the Emperor Lucius. King Arthur, spying
the marvelous feats of arms he performed, rode up and challenged him to a single combat. They
exchanged many a mighty blow, and at last Lucius struck King Arthur across the face, and inflicted
a grievous wound. Feeling the smart of it, King Arthur dealt back such a stroke that his sword
Excalibur clove the Emperor's helmet in half, and splitting his skull, passed right down to
his breast-bone.

Thus Lucius, the Emperor of the Romans, lost his life; and when it was known that he was slain,
his whole army turned and fled, and King Arthur and his knights chased them, slaying all they
could overtake. Of the host that followed Lucius, more than a hundred thousand men fell that day.

King Arthur, after he had won the great battle in which the Emperor Lucius was slain, marched
into Lorraine, and so on through Brabant and Flanders into Germany, and across the mountains
into Lombardy, and thence into Tuscany, and at last came to Rome, and on Christmas Day he was
crowned emperor by the Pope with great state and solemnity. And he stayed in Rome a little
while, setting in order the affairs of his possession, and distributing among his knights posts
of honor and dignity, and also great estates, as rewards for their services.

After these affairs had been duly arranged, all the British lords and knights assembled in
the presence of the King, and said to him:

"Noble Emperor, now that, Heaven be thanked for it, this great war is over, and your enemies
so utterly vanquished that henceforward, as we believe, no man, however great or mighty he
may be, will dare to stand up against you, we beseech you to grant us leave to return to our
wives and our homes, that there we may rest ourselves."

This request King Arthur granted, saying that it would be wise, seeing they had met with such
good fortune so far, to be content with it and to return home. Also he gave orders that there
should be no plundering or pillaging of the country through which they had to pass on their
way back, but that they should, on pain of death, pay the full price for victuals or whatever
else they took.

So King Arthur and his host set off from Rome and came over the sea and landed at Sandwich,
where Queen Guinevere came to meet her lord. And at Sandwich and throughout the land there
were great festivities, and noble gifts were presented to the King; for his people rejoiced
mightily both because he had returned safely home, and because of the great victories he had
achieved.

ROBIN HOOD

ADAPTED BY H.E. MARSHALL

I

HOW ROBIN HOOD CAME TO LIVE IN THE GREEN WOOD

Very many years ago there ruled over England a king, who was called Richard Coeur de Lion.
Coeur de Lion is French and means lion-hearted. It seems strange that an English king should
have a French name. But more than a hundred years before this king reigned, a French duke named
William came to England, defeated the English in a great battle, and declared himself king
of all that southern part of Britain called England.

He brought with him a great many Frenchmen, or Normans, as they were called from the name of
the part of France over which this duke ruled. These Normans were all poor though they were
very proud and haughty. They came with Duke William to help him to fight because he promised
to give them money and lands as a reward. Now Duke William had not a great deal of money nor
many lands of his own. So when he had beaten the English, or Saxons, as they were called in
those days, he stole lands and houses, money and cattle from the Saxon nobles and gave them
to the Normans. The Saxon nobles themselves had very often to become the servants of these
proud Normans. Thus it came about that two races lived in England, each speaking their own
language, and each hating the other.

This state of things lasted for a very long time. Even when Richard became king, more than
a hundred years after the coming of Duke William, there was still a great deal of hatred between
the two races.

Richard Coeur de Lion, as his name tells you, was a brave and noble man. He loved danger; he
loved brave men and noble deeds. He hated all mean and cruel acts, and the cowards who did
them. He was ever ready to help the weak against the strong, and had he stayed in England after
he became king he might have done much good. He might have taught the proud Norman nobles that
true nobility rests in being kind and gentle to those less strong and less fortunate than ourselves,
and not in fierceness and cruelty.

Yet Richard himself was neither meek nor gentle. He was indeed very fierce and terrible in
battle. He loved to fight with people who were stronger or better armed than himself. He would
have been ashamed to hurt the weak and feeble.

But Richard did not stay in England. Far, far over the seas there is a country called Palestine.
There our Lord was born, lived, and died. Christian people in all ages must think tenderly
and gratefully of that far-off country. But at this time it had fallen into the hands of the
heathen. It seemed to Christian people in those days that it would be a terrible sin to allow
wicked heathen to live in the Holy Land. So they gathered together great armies of brave men
from every country in the world and sent them to try to win it back. Many brave deeds were
done, many terrible battles fought, but still the heathen kept possession.

Then brave King Richard of England said he too would fight for the city of our Lord. So he
gathered together as much money as he could find, and as many brave men as would follow him,
and set out for the Holy Land. Before he went away he called two bishops who he thought were
good and wise men, and said to them: "Take care of England while I am gone. Rule my people
wisely and well, and I will reward you when I return." The bishops promised to do as he asked.
Then he said farewell and sailed away.

Now King Richard had a brother who was called Prince John. Prince John was quite different
from King Richard in every way. He was not at all a nice man. He was jealous of Richard because
he was king, and angry because he himself had not been chosen to rule while Richard was in
Palestine. As soon as his brother had gone, John went to the bishops and said, "You must let
me rule while the King is away." And the bishops allowed him to do so. Deep down in his wicked
heart John meant to make himself king altogether, and never let Richard come back any more.

A very sad time now began for the Saxons. John tried to please the haughty Normans because
they were great and powerful, and he hoped they would help to make him king. He thought the
best way to please them was to give them land and money. So as he had none of his own (he was
indeed called John Lackland) he took it from the Saxons and gave it to the Normans. Thus many
of the Saxons once more became homeless beggars, and lived a wild life in the forests, which
covered a great part of England at this time.

Now among the few Saxon nobles who still remained, and who had not been robbed of their lands
and money, there was one called Robert, Earl of Huntingdon. He had one son also named Robert,
but people called him Robin. He was a favorite with every one. Tall, strong, handsome, and
full of fun, he kept his father's house bright with songs and laughter. He was brave and fearless
too, and there was no better archer in all the countryside. And with it all he was gentle and
tender, never hurting the weak nor scorning the poor.

But Robert of Huntingdon had a bitter enemy. One day this enemy came with many soldiers behind
him, determined to kill the earl and take all his goods and lands. There was a fierce and terrible
fight, but in the end Robert and all his men were killed. His house was burned to the ground
and all his money stolen. Only Robin was saved, because he was such a splendid archer that
no soldier would go near him, either to kill him or take him prisoner. He fought bravely till
the last, but when he saw that his father was dead and his home in flames, he had no heart
to fight any longer. So taking his bow and arrows, he fled to the great forest of Sherwood.

Very fast he had to run, for Prince John's men were close behind him. Soon he reached the edge
of the forest, but he did not stop there. On and on he went, plunging deeper and deeper under
the shadow of the trees. At last he threw himself down beneath a great oak, burying his face
in the cool, green grass.

His heart felt hot and bitter. He was full of rage and fierce thoughts of revenge. Cruel men
in one day had robbed him of everything. His father, his home, servants, cattle, land, money,
his name even, all were gone. He was bruised, hungry, and weary. Yet as he lay pressing his
face against the cool, green grass, and clutching the soft, damp moss with his hands, it was
not sorrow or pain he felt, but only a bitter longing for revenge.

The great, solemn trees waved gently overhead in the summer breeze, the setting sun sent shafts
of golden light into the cool, blue shadows, birds sang their evening songs, deer rustled softly
through the underwood, and bright-eyed squirrels leaped noiselessly from branch to branch.
Everywhere there was calm and peace except in poor Robin's angry heart.

Robin loved the forest. He loved the sights and scents, and the sounds and deep silences of
it. He felt as if it were a tender mother who opened her wide arms to him. Soon it comforted
him, and at last the tears came hot and fast, and sobs shook him as he lay on the grass. The
bitterness and anger had all melted out of his heart; only sorrow was left.

In the dim evening light Robin knelt bareheaded on the green grass to say his prayers. Then,
still bareheaded, he stood up and swore an oath. This was the oath:

  "I swear to honor God and the King,
  To help the weak and fight the strong,
  To take from the rich and give to the poor,
  So God will help, me with His power."

Then he lay down on the grass under the trees with his good longbow beside him, and fell fast
asleep.

And this is how Robin Hood first came to live in the Green Wood and have all his wonderful
adventures.

II

THE MEETING OF ROBIN HOOD AND LITTLE JOHN

When Robin first came to live in Sherwood Forest he was rather sad, for he could not at once
forget all he had lost. But he was not long lonely. When it became known that he had gone to
live in the Green Wood, other poor men, who had been driven out of their homes by the Normans,
joined him. They soon formed a band and were known as the "Merry Men."

Robin was no longer called Robin of Huntingdon, but Robin of Sherwood Forest. Very soon people
shortened Sherwood into Hood, though some people say he was called Hood from the green hoods
he and his men wore. How he came to have his name does not matter very much. People almost
forgot that he was really an earl, and he became known, not only all over England, but in many
far countries, as Robin Hood.

Robin was captain of the band of Merry Men. Next to him came Little John. He was called Little
John because he was so tall, just as Midge the miller's son was called Much because he was
so small.

Robin loved Little John best of all his friends. Little John loved Robin better than any one
else in all the world. Yet the first time they met they fought and knocked each other about
dreadfully.

  "How they came acquainted, I'll tell you in brief,
     If you will but listen a while;
   For this very jest, among all the rest,
     I think it may cause you to smile."

It happened on a bright sunshiny day in early spring. All through the winter Robin and his
men had had a very dull time. Nearly all their fun and adventures happened with people traveling
through the forest. As there were no trains, people had to travel on horseback. In winter the
roads were bad, and the weather so cold and wet, that most people stayed at home. So it was
rather a quiet time for Robin and his men. They lived in great caves during the winter, and
spent their time making stores of bows and arrows, and mending their boots and clothes.

This bright sunshiny morning Robin felt dull and restless, so he took his bow and arrows, and
started off through the forest in search of adventure.

He wandered on for some time without meeting any one. Presently he came to a river. It was
wide and deep, swollen by the winter rains. It was crossed by a very slender, shaky bridge,
so narrow, that if two people tried to pass each other on it, one would certainly fall into
the water.

Robin began to cross the bridge, before he noticed that a great, tall man, the very tallest
man he had ever seen, was crossing too from the other side.

"Go back and wait until I have come over," he called out as soon as he noticed the stranger.

The stranger laughed, and called out in reply, "I have as good a right to the bridge as you.
You can go back till I get across."

This made Robin very angry. He was so accustomed to being obeyed that he was very much astonished
too. Between anger and astonishment he hardly knew what he did.

He drew an arrow from his quiver, and fitting it to his bow, called out again, "If you don't
go back I'll shoot."

"If you do, I'll beat you till you are black and blue," replied the stranger.

"If I talk like an ass you talk like a coward," replied the stranger. "Do you call it fair
to stand with your bow and arrow ready to shoot at me when I have only a stick to defend myself
with? I tell you, you are a coward. You are afraid of the beating I would give you."

Robin was not a coward, and he was not afraid. So he threw his bow and arrows on the bank behind
him.

"You are a big, boastful bully," he said. "Just wait there until I get a stick. I hope I may
give you as good a beating as you deserve."

The stranger laughed. "I won't run away; don't be afraid," he said.

Robin Hood stepped to a thicket of trees and cut himself a good, thick oak stick. While he
was doing this, he looked at the stranger, and saw that he was not only taller but much stronger
than himself.

However, that did not frighten Robin in the least. He was rather glad of it indeed. The stranger
had said he was a coward. He meant to prove to him that he was not.

Back he came with a fine big stick in his hand and a smile on his face. The idea of a real
good fight had made his bad temper fly away, for, like King Richard, Robin Hood was rather
fond of a fight.

"We will fight on the bridge," said he, "and whoever first falls into the river has lost the
battle."

"All right," said the stranger. "Whatever you like. I'm not afraid."

Then they fell to, with right good will.

It was very difficult to fight standing on such a narrow bridge. They kept swaying backwards
and forwards trying to keep their balance. With every stroke the bridge bent and trembled beneath
them as if it would break. All the same they managed to give each other some tremendous blows.
First Robin gave the stranger such a bang that his very bones seemed to ring.

"Aha!" said he, "I'll give you as good as I get," and crack he went at Robin's crown.

Bang, smash, crack, bang, they went at each other. Their blows fell fast and thick as if they
had been threshing corn.

When Robin's blows came so fast and furious, the stranger felt he could not stand it much longer.
Gathering all his strength, with one mighty blow he sent Robin backwards, right into the river.
Head over heels he went, and disappeared under the water.

The stranger very nearly fell in after him. He was so astonished at Robin's sudden disappearance
that he could not think for a minute or two where he had vanished to. He knelt down on the
bridge, and stared into the water. "Hallo, my good man," he called. "Hallo, where are you?"

He thought he had drowned Robin, and he had not meant to do that. All the same he could not
help laughing. Robin had looked so funny as he tumbled into the water.

"I'm here," called Robin, from far down the river. "I'm all right. I'm just swimming with the
tide."

The current was very strong and had carried him down the river a good way. He was, however,
gradually making for the bank. Soon he caught hold of the overhanging branches of a tree and
pulled himself out. The stranger came running to help him too.

"You are not an easy man to beat or to drown either," he said with a laugh, as he helped Robin
on to dry land again.

"Well," said Robin, laughing too, "I must own that you are a brave man and a good fighter.
It was a fair fight, and you have won the battle. I don't want to quarrel with you any more.
Will you shake hands and be friends with me?"

"With all my heart," said the stranger. "It is a long time since I have met any one who could
use a stick as you can."

So they shook hands like the best of friends, and quite forgot that a few minutes before they
had been banging and battering each other as hard as they could.

Then Robin put his bugle-horn to his mouth, and blew a loud, loud blast.

  "The echoes of which through the valleys did ring,
     At which his stout bowmen appeared,
   And clothed in green, most gay to be seen,
     So up to their master they steered."

When the stranger saw all these fine men, dressed in green, and carrying bows and arrows, come
running to Robin he was very much astonished. "O master dear, what has happened?" cried Will
Stutely, the leader, as he ran up. "You have a great cut in your forehead, and you are soaked
through and through," he added, laying his hand on Robin's arm.

"It is nothing," laughed Robin. "This young fellow and I have been having a fight. He cracked
my crown and then tumbled me into the river."

When they heard that, Robin's men were very angry. "If he has tumbled our master into the river,
we will tumble him in," said they; "we will see how he likes that." And they seized him, and
would have dragged him to the water to drown him, but Robin called out, "Stop, stop! it was
a fair fight. He is a brave man, and we are very good friends now."

Then turning to the stranger, Robin bowed politely to him, saying, "I beg you to forgive my
men. They will not harm you now they know that you are my friend, for I am Robin Hood."

The stranger was very much astonished when he heard that he had actually been fighting with
bold Robin Hood, of whom he had heard so many tales.

"If you will come and live with me and my Merry Men," went on Robin, "I will give you a suit
of Lincoln green. I will teach you how to use bow and arrows as well as you use your good stick."

"I should like nothing better," replied the stranger. "My name is John Little, and I promise
to serve you faithfully."

"John Little!" said Will Stutely laughing. "John Little! what a name for a man that height!
John Little! why he is seven feet tall if he is an inch!"

Will laughed and laughed, till the tears ran down his face. He thought it was such a funny
name for so big a man.

Robin laughed because Will laughed. Then John Little laughed because Robin laughed. Soon they
were all laughing as hard as they could. The wind carried the sound of it away, till the folk
in the villages round about said, "Hark! how Robin Hood and his Merry Men do laugh!"

"Well," said Robin at last, "I have heard it said, 'Laugh and grow fat,' but if we don't get
some dinner soon I think we will all grow very lean. Come along, my little John, I'm sure you
must be hungry too."

"Little John," said Will Stutely, "that's the very name for him. We must christen him again,
and I will be his godfather."

Back to their forest home they all went, laughing and talking as merrily as possible, taking
John Little along with them. Dinner was waiting for them when they arrived. The head cook was
looking anxiously through the trees, saying, "I do wish Master Robin would come, or the roast
venison will be too much cooked and the rabbits will be stewed to rags."

Just at that moment they appeared. The cook was struck dumb at the sight of the giant, stalking
along beside Robin. "Where has master gotten that Maypole?" he said, laughing to himself, as
he ran away to dish the dinner.

They had a very merry dinner. Robin found that John was not only a good fighter but that he
had a wise head and a witty tongue. He was more and more delighted with his new companion.

But Will and the others had not forgotten that he was to be christened again. Seven of them
came behind him, and in spite of all his kicking and struggling wrapped him up in a long, green
cloak, pretending he was a baby.

It was a very noisy christening. The men all shouted and laughed. John Little laughed and screamed
in turn, and kicked and struggled all the time.

"Hush, baby, hush," they said. But the seven-foot baby wouldn't hush.

Then Will stepped up beside him and began to speak.

They had some buckets of water ready. These they poured over poor Little John till he was as
wet as Robin had been after he fell into the river. The men roared with laughter. Little John
looked so funny as he rolled about on the grass, trying to get out of his long, wet, green
robe. He looked just like a huge green caterpillar.

Robin laughed as much as any one. At last he said, "Now, Will, don't you think that is enough?"

"Not a bit," said Will. "You wouldn't let us duck him in the river when we had him there so
we have brought the river to him."

At last all the buckets were empty, and the christening was over. Then all the men stood round
in a ring and gave three cheers for Little John, Robin's new man.

  "Then Robin he took the sweet pretty babe,
     And clothed him from top to toe
   In garments of green, most gay to be seen,
     And gave him a curious longbow."

After that they sang, danced and played the whole afternoon. Then when the sun sank and the
long, cool shadows fell across the grass they all said "good night" and went off into their
caves to sleep.

From that day Little John always lived with Robin. They became very, very great friends and
Little John was next to Robin in command of the men.

  "And so ever after as long as he lived,
     Although he was proper and tall,
   Yet, nevertheless, the truth to express,
     Still Little John they did him call."

III

ROBIN HOOD AND THE BUTCHER

The Sheriff of Nottingham hated Robin and would have been very glad if any one had killed him.

The Sheriff was a very unkind man. He treated the poor Saxons very badly. He often took away
all their money, and their houses and left them to starve. Sometimes, for a very little fault,
he would cut off their ears or fingers. The poor people used to go into the wood, and Robin
would give them food and money. Sometimes they went home again, but very often they stayed
with him, and became his men.

The Sheriff knew this, so he hated Robin all the more, and he was never so happy as when he
had caught one of Robin's men and locked him up in prison.

But try how he might, he could not catch Robin. All the same Robin used to go to Nottingham
very often, but he was always so well disguised that the Sheriff never knew him. So he always
escaped.

The Sheriff was too much afraid of him to go into the forest to try to take him. He knew his
men were no match for Robin's. Robin's men served him and fought for him because they loved
him. The Sheriff's men only served him because they feared him.

One day Robin was walking through the forest when he met a butcher.

This butcher was riding gaily along to the market at Nottingham. He was dressed in a blue linen
coat, with leather belt. On either side of his strong gray pony hung a basket full of meat.

In these days as there were no trains, everything had to be sent by road. The roads were so
bad that even carts could not go along them very much, for the wheels stuck in the mud. Everything
was carried on horseback, in sacks or baskets called panniers.

The butcher rode gaily along, whistling as he went. Suddenly Robin stepped from under the trees
and stopped him.

"What have you there, my man?" he asked.

"Butcher's meat," replied the man. "Fine prime beef and mutton for Nottingham market. Do you
want to buy some?"

"Yes, I do," said Robin. "I'll buy it all and your pony too. How much do you want for it? I
should like to go to Nottingham and see what kind of a butcher I will make:"

So the butcher sold his pony and all his meat to Robin. Then Robin changed clothes with him.
He put on the butcher's blue clothes and leather belt, and the butcher went off in Robin's
suit of Lincoln green, feeling very grand indeed.

Then Robin mounted his pony and off he went to Nottingham to sell his meat at the market.

When he arrived he found the whole town in a bustle. In those days there were very few shops,
so every one used to go to market to buy and sell. The country people brought butter and eggs
and honey to sell. With the money they got they bought platters and mugs, pots and pans, or
whatever they wanted, and took it back to the country with them.

All sorts of people came to buy: fine ladies and poor women, rich knights and gentlemen, and
humble workers, every one pushing and crowding together. Robin found it quite difficult to
drive his pony through the crowd to the corner of the market-place where the butchers had their
stalls.

He got there at last, however, laid out his meat, and began to cry with the best of them.

"Prime meat, ladies. Come and buy. Cheapest meat in all the market, ladies. Come buy, come
buy. Twopence a pound, ladies. Twopence a pound. Come buy. Come buy."

"What!" said every one, "beef at twopence a pound! I never heard of such a thing. Why it is
generally tenpence."

You see Robin knew nothing at all about selling meat, as he never bought any. He and his men
used to live on what they shot in the forest.

When it became known that there was a new butcher, who was selling his meat for twopence a
pound, every one came crowding round his stall eager to buy. All the other butchers stood idle
until Robin had no more beef and mutton left to sell.

As these butchers had nothing to do, they began to talk among themselves and say, "Who is this
man? He has never been here before."

"Do you think he has stolen the meat?"

"Perhaps his father has just died and left him a business."

"Well, his money won't last long at this rate."

"The sooner he loses it all, the better for us. We will never be able to sell anything as long
as he comes here giving away beef at twopence a pound."

"It is perfectly ridiculous," said one old man, who seemed to be the chief butcher. "These
fifty years have I come and gone to Nottingham market, and I have never seen the like of it--never.
He is ruining the trade, that's what he is doing."

They stood at their stalls sulky and cross, while all their customers crowded round Robin.

Shouts of laughter came from his corner, for he was not only selling beef and mutton, but making
jokes about it all the time.

"I tell you what," said the old butcher, "it is no use standing here doing nothing. We had
better go and talk to him, and find out, if we can, who he is. We must ask him to come and
have dinner with us and the Sheriff in the town hall to-day." For on market days the butchers
used to have dinner all together in the town hall, after market was over, and the sheriff used
to come and have dinner with them.

  "So, the butchers stepped up to jolly Robin,
    Acquainted with him for to be;
  Come, butcher, one said, we be all of one trade,
    Come, will you go dine with me?"

"Thank you," said Robin, "I should like nothing better. I have had a busy morning and am very
hungry and thirsty."

"Come along, then," said the butchers.

The old man led the way with Robin, and the others followed two by two.

As they walked along, the old butcher began asking Robin questions, to try and find out something
about him.

"You have not been here before?" he said.

"Have I not?" replied Robin.

"I have not seen you, at least."

"Have you not?"

"You are new to the business?"

"Am I?"

"Well, you seem to be," said the old butcher, getting rather cross.

"Do I?" replied Robin, laughing.

At last they came to the town hall, and though they had talked all the time the old butcher
had got nothing out of Robin, and was not a bit the wiser.

The Sheriff's house was close to the town hall, so as dinner was not quite ready all the butchers
went to say "How do you do?" to the Sheriff's wife.

She received them very kindly, and was quite interested in Robin when she heard that he was
the new butcher who had been selling such wonderfully cheap meat. Robin had such pleasant manners
too, that she thought he was a very nice man indeed. She was quite sorry when the Sheriff came
and took him away, saying dinner was ready.

"I hope to see you again, kind sir," she said when saying good-by. "Come to see me next time
you have meat to sell."

"Thank you, lady, I will not forget your kindness," replied Robin, bowing low.

At dinner the Sheriff sat at one end of the table and the old butcher at the other. Robin,
as the greatest stranger, had the place of honor on the Sheriff's right hand.

At first the dinner was very dull. All the butchers were sulky and cross, only Robin was merry.
He could not help laughing to himself at the idea of dining with his great enemy the Sheriff
of Nottingham. And not only dining with him, but sitting on his right hand, and being treated
as an honored guest.

If the Sheriff had only known, poor Robin would very soon have been locked up in a dark dungeon,
eating dry bread instead of apple-pie and custard and all the fine things they were having
for dinner.

However, Robin was so merry, that very soon the butchers forgot to be cross and sulky. Before
the end of dinner all were laughing till their sides ached.

