From the beginning of the day, however, it became apparent that there was a concerted movement
under way to heckle the Pan-Antis. As the Gooseberry Anthem came to an end a number of men
were observed on the skyline of a tall building, wig-wagging with flags. All eyes were turned
aloft, and much speculation ensued among the waiting thousands as to the meaning of the signals.
Then a cry of anger burst from one of the section leaders, who was acquainted with the Morse
code. The flags were spelling WHAT A DAY FOR A DRINK! All down the Boulevard the white and
gold banners tossed in anger. To those above, the mass of agitated chuffs looked like a field
of daisies in a wind.

Shortly afterward the familiar buzz of airplane motors was heard, and three silver-gray machines
came coasting above the channel of the Boulevard. They flew low, and it was easy to read the
initials C.P.H. painted on the nether surface of their wings. Over the front ranks of the parade
(which was beginning to fall in line) they executed a series of fantastic twirls. Then, as
though at a concerted signal, they dropped a cloud of paper slips which came eddying down through
the sunlight. The chuffs scrambled for them, wondering. A sullen murmur rose when the messages
were read. They ran thus:--

    TO MAKE GOOSEBERRY WINE

    (Paste This in Your Hat),

    Ten quarts of gooseberries, thoroughly crushed;
    Over these, five quarts of water are flushed.
    Twice round the clock let the fluid remain,
    Then through a sieve the blithe mixture you strain,
    Adding some sugar (not less than ten pound)
    And stirring it carefully, round and around.

    To the pulp of the fruit that remains in the sieve
    A gallon of pure filtered water you give:
    This you let stand for a dozen of hours,
    Then add to the other to strengthen its powers.
    Shut up the whole for the space of a day
    And it will ferment in a riotous way.

    When you see by the froth that the fluid grows thicker
    You, should skim it (with glee) for it's turning to liquor!
    While it ferments, please continue to skim:
    At the end, you may murmur the Bartender's Hymn.
    This makes a booze that is potent enough--
    Seal in a hogshead--and hide it from Chuff!

    Corporation for the
    Perpetuation of Happiness.

The Pan-Antis were still muttering furiously over this daring act of defiance when a shrill
bugle-call pealed down the avenue. Bishop Chuff rode out into the middle of the street on his
famous coal-black charger, John Barleycorn. There was a long hush. Then, with a wave of his
hand, he gave the signal. One hundred bands burst into the somber and clanging strains of "The
Face on the Bar-Room Floor." The great parade had begun.

From a house-top farther up the street Dunraven Bleak watched them come. He had taken Quimbleton's
word seriously, and with his usual enterprise had rented a roof overlooking the Boulevard,
on which several members of the Balloon staff were prepared to deal with any startling events
that might occur. A battery of telephones had been installed on the house-top; Bleak himself
sat with apparatus clamped to his head like an operator at central. Two reporters were busy
with paper and pencil; the cartoonist sat on the cornice, with legs swinging above two hundred
feet of space, sketching the prodigious scene. The young lady editor of the Woman's Page was
there, with opera glasses, noting down the "among those present."

