At the end of the room there was a little staircase, leading to a darkened chamber.  As Dorian
hurried up its three rickety steps, the heavy odour of opium met him.  He heaved a deep breath,
and his nostrils quivered with pleasure.  When he entered, a young man with smooth yellow hair,
who was bending over a lamp lighting a long thin pipe, looked up at him and nodded in a hesitating
manner.

"You here, Adrian?" muttered Dorian.

"Where else should I be?" he answered, listlessly.  "None of the chaps will speak to me now."

"I thought you had left England."

"Darlington is not going to do anything.  My brother paid the bill at last.  George doesn't
speak to me either.... I don't care," he added with a sigh.  "As long as one has this stuff,
one doesn't want friends. I think I have had too many friends."

Dorian winced and looked round at the grotesque things that lay in such fantastic postures
on the ragged mattresses.  The twisted limbs, the gaping mouths, the staring lustreless eyes,
fascinated him.  He knew in what strange heavens they were suffering, and what dull hells were
teaching them the secret of some new joy.  They were better off than he was.  He was prisoned
in thought.  Memory, like a horrible malady, was eating his soul away.  From time to time he
seemed to see the eyes of Basil Hallward looking at him.  Yet he felt he could not stay.  The
presence of Adrian Singleton troubled him.  He wanted to be where no one would know who he
was.  He wanted to escape from himself.

"I am going on to the other place," he said after a pause.

"On the wharf?"

"Yes."

"That mad-cat is sure to be there.  They won't have her in this place now."

Dorian shrugged his shoulders.  "I am sick of women who love one. Women who hate one are much
more interesting.  Besides, the stuff is better."

"Much the same."

"I like it better.  Come and have something to drink.  I must have something."

"I don't want anything," murmured the young man.

"Never mind."

Adrian Singleton rose up wearily and followed Dorian to the bar.  A half-caste, in a ragged
turban and a shabby ulster, grinned a hideous greeting as he thrust a bottle of brandy and
two tumblers in front of them.  The women sidled up and began to chatter.  Dorian turned his
back on them and said something in a low voice to Adrian Singleton.

A crooked smile, like a Malay crease, writhed across the face of one of the women.  "We are
very proud to-night," she sneered.

"For God's sake don't talk to me," cried Dorian, stamping his foot on the ground.  "What do
you want?  Money?  Here it is.  Don't ever talk to me again."

Two red sparks flashed for a moment in the woman's sodden eyes, then flickered out and left
them dull and glazed.  She tossed her head and raked the coins off the counter with greedy
fingers.  Her companion watched her enviously.

"It's no use," sighed Adrian Singleton.  "I don't care to go back. What does it matter?  I
am quite happy here."

"You will write to me if you want anything, won't you?" said Dorian, after a pause.

"Perhaps."

"Good night, then."

"Good night," answered the young man, passing up the steps and wiping his parched mouth with
a handkerchief.

Dorian walked to the door with a look of pain in his face.  As he drew the curtain aside, a
hideous laugh broke from the painted lips of the woman who had taken his money.  "There goes
the devil's bargain!" she hiccoughed, in a hoarse voice.

"Curse you!" he answered, "don't call me that."

She snapped her fingers.  "Prince Charming is what you like to be called, ain't it?" she yelled
after him.

The drowsy sailor leaped to his feet as she spoke, and looked wildly round.  The sound of the
shutting of the hall door fell on his ear.  He rushed out as if in pursuit.

Dorian Gray hurried along the quay through the drizzling rain.  His meeting with Adrian Singleton
had strangely moved him, and he wondered if the ruin of that young life was really to be laid
at his door, as Basil Hallward had said to him with such infamy of insult.  He bit his lip,
and for a few seconds his eyes grew sad.  Yet, after all, what did it matter to him?  One's
days were too brief to take the burden of another's errors on one's shoulders.  Each man lived
his own life and paid his own price for living it.  The only pity was one had to pay so often
for a single fault.  One had to pay over and over again, indeed. In her dealings with man,
destiny never closed her accounts.

There are moments, psychologists tell us, when the passion for sin, or for what the world calls
sin, so dominates a nature that every fibre of the body, as every cell of the brain, seems
to be instinct with fearful impulses.  Men and women at such moments lose the freedom of their
will.  They move to their terrible end as automatons move.  Choice is taken from them, and
conscience is either killed, or, if it lives at all, lives but to give rebellion its fascination
and disobedience its charm.  For all sins, as theologians weary not of reminding us, are sins
of disobedience.  When that high spirit, that morning star of evil, fell from heaven, it was
as a rebel that he fell.

Callous, concentrated on evil, with stained mind, and soul hungry for rebellion, Dorian Gray
hastened on, quickening his step as he went, but as he darted aside into a dim archway, that
had served him often as a short cut to the ill-famed place where he was going, he felt himself
suddenly seized from behind, and before he had time to defend himself, he was thrust back against
the wall, with a brutal hand round his throat.

He struggled madly for life, and by a terrible effort wrenched the tightening fingers away.
In a second he heard the click of a revolver, and saw the gleam of a polished barrel, pointing
straight at his head, and the dusky form of a short, thick-set man facing him.

"What do you want?" he gasped.

"Keep quiet," said the man.  "If you stir, I shoot you."

"You are mad.  What have I done to you?"

"You wrecked the life of Sibyl Vane," was the answer, "and Sibyl Vane was my sister.  She killed
herself.  I know it.  Her death is at your door.  I swore I would kill you in return.  For
years I have sought you.  I had no clue, no trace.  The two people who could have described
you were dead.  I knew nothing of you but the pet name she used to call you.  I heard it to-night
by chance.  Make your peace with God, for to-night you are going to die."

Dorian Gray grew sick with fear.  "I never knew her," he stammered.  "I never heard of her.
You are mad."

"You had better confess your sin, for as sure as I am James Vane, you are going to die."  There
was a horrible moment.  Dorian did not know what to say or do.  "Down on your knees!" growled
the man.  "I give you one minute to make your peace--no more.  I go on board to-night for India,
and I must do my job first.  One minute.  That's all."

Dorian's arms fell to his side.  Paralysed with terror, he did not know what to do.  Suddenly
a wild hope flashed across his brain.  "Stop," he cried.  "How long ago is it since your sister
died?  Quick, tell me!"

"Eighteen years," said the man.  "Why do you ask me?  What do years matter?"

"Eighteen years," laughed Dorian Gray, with a touch of triumph in his voice.  "Eighteen years!
Set me under the lamp and look at my face!"

James Vane hesitated for a moment, not understanding what was meant. Then he seized Dorian
Gray and dragged him from the archway.

Dim and wavering as was the wind-blown light, yet it served to show him the hideous error,
as it seemed, into which he had fallen, for the face of the man he had sought to kill had all
the bloom of boyhood, all the unstained purity of youth.  He seemed little more than a lad
of twenty summers, hardly older, if older indeed at all, than his sister had been when they
had parted so many years ago.  It was obvious that this was not the man who had destroyed her life.

He loosened his hold and reeled back.  "My God! my God!" he cried, "and I would have murdered you!"

Dorian Gray drew a long breath.  "You have been on the brink of committing a terrible crime,
my man," he said, looking at him sternly. "Let this be a warning to you not to take vengeance
into your own hands."

"Forgive me, sir," muttered James Vane.  "I was deceived.  A chance word I heard in that damned
den set me on the wrong track."

"You had better go home and put that pistol away, or you may get into trouble," said Dorian,
turning on his heel and going slowly down the street.

James Vane stood on the pavement in horror.  He was trembling from head to foot.  After a little
while, a black shadow that had been creeping along the dripping wall moved out into the light
and came close to him with stealthy footsteps.  He felt a hand laid on his arm and looked round
with a start.  It was one of the women who had been drinking at the bar.

"Why didn't you kill him?" she hissed out, putting haggard face quite close to his.  "I knew
you were following him when you rushed out from Daly's. You fool!  You should have killed him.
He has lots of money, and he's as bad as bad."

"He is not the man I am looking for," he answered, "and I want no man's money.  I want a man's
life.  The man whose life I want must be nearly forty now.  This one is little more than a
boy.  Thank God, I have not got his blood upon my hands."

The woman gave a bitter laugh.  "Little more than a boy!" she sneered. "Why, man, it's nigh
on eighteen years since Prince Charming made me what I am."

"You lie!" cried James Vane.

She raised her hand up to heaven.  "Before God I am telling the truth," she cried.

"Before God?"

"Strike me dumb if it ain't so.  He is the worst one that comes here. They say he has sold
himself to the devil for a pretty face.  It's nigh on eighteen years since I met him.  He hasn't
changed much since then. I have, though," she added, with a sickly leer.

"You swear this?"

"I swear it," came in hoarse echo from her flat mouth.  "But don't give me away to him," she
whined; "I am afraid of him.  Let me have some money for my night's lodging."

He broke from her with an oath and rushed to the corner of the street, but Dorian Gray had
disappeared.  When he looked back, the woman had vanished also.

CHAPTER 17

A week later Dorian Gray was sitting in the conservatory at Selby Royal, talking to the pretty
Duchess of Monmouth, who with her husband, a jaded-looking man of sixty, was amongst his guests.
It was tea-time, and the mellow light of the huge, lace-covered lamp that stood on the table
lit up the delicate china and hammered silver of the service at which the duchess was presiding.
Her white hands were moving daintily among the cups, and her full red lips were smiling at
something that Dorian had whispered to her.  Lord Henry was lying back in a silk-draped wicker
chair, looking at them.  On a peach-coloured divan sat Lady Narborough, pretending to listen
to the duke's description of the last Brazilian beetle that he had added to his collection.
Three young men in elaborate smoking-suits were handing tea-cakes to some of the women.  The
house-party consisted of twelve people, and there were more expected to arrive on the next day.

"What are you two talking about?" said Lord Henry, strolling over to the table and putting
his cup down.  "I hope Dorian has told you about my plan for rechristening everything, Gladys.
It is a delightful idea."

"But I don't want to be rechristened, Harry," rejoined the duchess, looking up at him with
her wonderful eyes.  "I am quite satisfied with my own name, and I am sure Mr. Gray should
be satisfied with his."

"My dear Gladys, I would not alter either name for the world.  They are both perfect.  I was
thinking chiefly of flowers.  Yesterday I cut an orchid, for my button-hole. It was a marvellous
spotted thing, as effective as the seven deadly sins.  In a thoughtless moment I asked one
of the gardeners what it was called.  He told me it was a fine specimen of Robinsoniana, or
something dreadful of that kind.  It is a sad truth, but we have lost the faculty of giving
lovely names to things.  Names are everything.  I never quarrel with actions.  My one quarrel
is with words.  That is the reason I hate vulgar realism in literature.  The man who could
call a spade a spade should be compelled to use one.  It is the only thing he is fit for."

"Then what should we call you, Harry?" she asked.

"His name is Prince Paradox," said Dorian.

"I recognize him in a flash," exclaimed the duchess.

"I won't hear of it," laughed Lord Henry, sinking into a chair.  "From a label there is no
escape!  I refuse the title."

"Royalties may not abdicate," fell as a warning from pretty lips.

"You wish me to defend my throne, then?"

"Yes."

"I give the truths of to-morrow."

"I prefer the mistakes of to-day," she answered.

"You disarm me, Gladys," he cried, catching the wilfulness of her mood.

"Of your shield, Harry, not of your spear."

"I never tilt against beauty," he said, with a wave of his hand.

"That is your error, Harry, believe me.  You value beauty far too much."

"How can you say that?  I admit that I think that it is better to be beautiful than to be good.
But on the other hand, no one is more ready than I am to acknowledge that it is better to be
good than to be ugly."

"Ugliness is one of the seven deadly sins, then?" cried the duchess. "What becomes of your
simile about the orchid?"

"Ugliness is one of the seven deadly virtues, Gladys.  You, as a good Tory, must not underrate
them.  Beer, the Bible, and the seven deadly virtues have made our England what she is."

"You don't like your country, then?" she asked.

"I live in it."

"That you may censure it the better."

"Would you have me take the verdict of Europe on it?" he inquired.

"What do they say of us?"

"That Tartuffe has emigrated to England and opened a shop."

"Is that yours, Harry?"

"I give it to you."

"I could not use it.  It is too true."

"You need not be afraid.  Our countrymen never recognize a description."

"They are practical."

"They are more cunning than practical.  When they make up their ledger, they balance stupidity
by wealth, and vice by hypocrisy."

"Still, we have done great things."

"Great things have been thrust on us, Gladys."

"We have carried their burden."

"Only as far as the Stock Exchange."

She shook her head.  "I believe in the race," she cried.

"It represents the survival of the pushing."

"It has development."

"Decay fascinates me more."

"What of art?" she asked.

"It is a malady."

"Love?"

"An illusion."

"Religion?"

"The fashionable substitute for belief."

"You are a sceptic."

"Never!  Scepticism is the beginning of faith."

"What are you?"

"To define is to limit."

"Give me a clue."

"Threads snap.  You would lose your way in the labyrinth."

"You bewilder me.  Let us talk of some one else."

"Our host is a delightful topic.  Years ago he was christened Prince Charming."

"Ah! don't remind me of that," cried Dorian Gray.

"Our host is rather horrid this evening," answered the duchess, colouring.  "I believe he thinks
that Monmouth married me on purely scientific principles as the best specimen he could find
of a modern butterfly."

"Well, I hope he won't stick pins into you, Duchess," laughed Dorian.

"Oh! my maid does that already, Mr. Gray, when she is annoyed with me."

"And what does she get annoyed with you about, Duchess?"

"For the most trivial things, Mr. Gray, I assure you.  Usually because I come in at ten minutes
to nine and tell her that I must be dressed by half-past eight."

"How unreasonable of her!  You should give her warning."

"I daren't, Mr. Gray.  Why, she invents hats for me.  You remember the one I wore at Lady Hilstone's
garden-party?  You don't, but it is nice of you to pretend that you do.  Well, she made if
out of nothing.  All good hats are made out of nothing."

"Like all good reputations, Gladys," interrupted Lord Henry.  "Every effect that one produces
gives one an enemy.  To be popular one must be a mediocrity."

"Not with women," said the duchess, shaking her head; "and women rule the world.  I assure
you we can't bear mediocrities.  We women, as some one says, love with our ears, just as you
men love with your eyes, if you ever love at all."

"It seems to me that we never do anything else," murmured Dorian.

"Ah! then, you never really love, Mr. Gray," answered the duchess with mock sadness.

"My dear Gladys!" cried Lord Henry.  "How can you say that?  Romance lives by repetition, and
repetition converts an appetite into an art. Besides, each time that one loves is the only
time one has ever loved. Difference of object does not alter singleness of passion.  It merely
intensifies it.  We can have in life but one great experience at best, and the secret of life
is to reproduce that experience as often as possible."

"Even when one has been wounded by it, Harry?" asked the duchess after a pause.

"Especially when one has been wounded by it," answered Lord Henry.

The duchess turned and looked at Dorian Gray with a curious expression in her eyes.  "What
do you say to that, Mr. Gray?" she inquired.

Dorian hesitated for a moment.  Then he threw his head back and laughed.  "I always agree with
Harry, Duchess."

"Even when he is wrong?"

"Harry is never wrong, Duchess."

"And does his philosophy make you happy?"

"I have never searched for happiness.  Who wants happiness?  I have searched for pleasure."

"And found it, Mr. Gray?"

"Often.  Too often."

The duchess sighed.  "I am searching for peace," she said, "and if I don't go and dress, I
shall have none this evening."

"Let me get you some orchids, Duchess," cried Dorian, starting to his feet and walking down
the conservatory.

"You are flirting disgracefully with him," said Lord Henry to his cousin.  "You had better
take care.  He is very fascinating."

"If he were not, there would be no battle."

"Greek meets Greek, then?"

"I am on the side of the Trojans.  They fought for a woman."

"They were defeated."

"There are worse things than capture," she answered.

"You gallop with a loose rein."

"Pace gives life," was the riposte.

"I shall write it in my diary to-night."

"What?"

"That a burnt child loves the fire."

"I am not even singed.  My wings are untouched."

"You use them for everything, except flight."

"Courage has passed from men to women.  It is a new experience for us."

"You have a rival."

"Who?"

He laughed.  "Lady Narborough," he whispered.  "She perfectly adores him."

"You fill me with apprehension.  The appeal to antiquity is fatal to us who are romanticists."

"Romanticists!  You have all the methods of science."

"Men have educated us."

"But not explained you."

"Describe us as a sex," was her challenge.

"Sphinxes without secrets."

She looked at him, smiling.  "How long Mr. Gray is!" she said.  "Let us go and help him.  I
have not yet told him the colour of my frock."

"Ah! you must suit your frock to his flowers, Gladys."

"That would be a premature surrender."

"Romantic art begins with its climax."

"I must keep an opportunity for retreat."

"In the Parthian manner?"

"They found safety in the desert.  I could not do that."

"Women are not always allowed a choice," he answered, but hardly had he finished the sentence
before from the far end of the conservatory came a stifled groan, followed by the dull sound
of a heavy fall.  Everybody started up.  The duchess stood motionless in horror.  And with
fear in his eyes, Lord Henry rushed through the flapping palms to find Dorian Gray lying face
downwards on the tiled floor in a deathlike swoon.

He was carried at once into the blue drawing-room and laid upon one of the sofas.  After a
short time, he came to himself and looked round with a dazed expression.

"What has happened?" he asked.  "Oh!  I remember.  Am I safe here, Harry?" He began to tremble.

"My dear Dorian," answered Lord Henry, "you merely fainted.  That was all.  You must have overtired
yourself.  You had better not come down to dinner.  I will take your place."

"No, I will come down," he said, struggling to his feet.  "I would rather come down.  I must
not be alone."

He went to his room and dressed.  There was a wild recklessness of gaiety in his manner as
he sat at table, but now and then a thrill of terror ran through him when he remembered that,
pressed against the window of the conservatory, like a white handkerchief, he had seen the
face of James Vane watching him.

CHAPTER 18

The next day he did not leave the house, and, indeed, spent most of the time in his own room,
sick with a wild terror of dying, and yet indifferent to life itself.  The consciousness of
being hunted, snared, tracked down, had begun to dominate him.  If the tapestry did but tremble
in the wind, he shook.  The dead leaves that were blown against the leaded panes seemed to
him like his own wasted resolutions and wild regrets.  When he closed his eyes, he saw again
the sailor's face peering through the mist-stained glass, and horror seemed once more to lay
its hand upon his heart.

But perhaps it had been only his fancy that had called vengeance out of the night and set the
hideous shapes of punishment before him.  Actual life was chaos, but there was something terribly
logical in the imagination.  It was the imagination that set remorse to dog the feet of sin.
It was the imagination that made each crime bear its misshapen brood.  In the common world
of fact the wicked were not punished, nor the good rewarded.  Success was given to the strong,
failure thrust upon the weak.  That was all.  Besides, had any stranger been prowling round
the house, he would have been seen by the servants or the keepers.  Had any foot-marks been
found on the flower-beds, the gardeners would have reported it.  Yes, it had been merely fancy.
Sibyl Vane's brother had not come back to kill him.  He had sailed away in his ship to founder
in some winter sea.  From him, at any rate, he was safe.  Why, the man did not know who he
was, could not know who he was.  The mask of youth had saved him.

And yet if it had been merely an illusion, how terrible it was to think that conscience could
raise such fearful phantoms, and give them visible form, and make them move before one!  What
sort of life would his be if, day and night, shadows of his crime were to peer at him from
silent corners, to mock him from secret places, to whisper in his ear as he sat at the feast,
to wake him with icy fingers as he lay asleep! As the thought crept through his brain, he grew
pale with terror, and the air seemed to him to have become suddenly colder.  Oh! in what a
wild hour of madness he had killed his friend!  How ghastly the mere memory of the scene! 
He saw it all again.  Each hideous detail came back to him with added horror.  Out of the black
cave of time, terrible and swathed in scarlet, rose the image of his sin.  When Lord Henry
came in at six o'clock, he found him crying as one whose heart will break.

It was not till the third day that he ventured to go out.  There was something in the clear,
pine-scented air of that winter morning that seemed to bring him back his joyousness and his
ardour for life.  But it was not merely the physical conditions of environment that had caused
the change.  His own nature had revolted against the excess of anguish that had sought to maim
and mar the perfection of its calm. With subtle and finely wrought temperaments it is always
so.  Their strong passions must either bruise or bend.  They either slay the man, or themselves
die.  Shallow sorrows and shallow loves live on.  The loves and sorrows that are great are
destroyed by their own plenitude. Besides, he had convinced himself that he had been the victim
of a terror-stricken imagination, and looked back now on his fears with something of pity and
not a little of contempt.

After breakfast, he walked with the duchess for an hour in the garden and then drove across
the park to join the shooting-party. The crisp frost lay like salt upon the grass.  The sky
was an inverted cup of blue metal.  A thin film of ice bordered the flat, reed-grown lake.

At the corner of the pine-wood he caught sight of Sir Geoffrey Clouston, the duchess's brother,
jerking two spent cartridges out of his gun.  He jumped from the cart, and having told the
groom to take the mare home, made his way towards his guest through the withered bracken and
rough undergrowth.

"Have you had good sport, Geoffrey?" he asked.

"Not very good, Dorian.  I think most of the birds have gone to the open.  I dare say it will
be better after lunch, when we get to new ground."

Dorian strolled along by his side.  The keen aromatic air, the brown and red lights that glimmered
in the wood, the hoarse cries of the beaters ringing out from time to time, and the sharp snaps
of the guns that followed, fascinated him and filled him with a sense of delightful freedom.
He was dominated by the carelessness of happiness, by the high indifference of joy.  It bolted
for a thicket of alders.  Sir Geoffrey put his gun to his shoulder, but there was something
in the animal's grace of movement that strangely charmed Dorian Gray, and he cried out at once,
"Don't shoot it, Geoffrey.  Let it live."

"What nonsense, Dorian!" laughed his companion, and as the hare bounded into the thicket, he
fired.  There were two cries heard, the cry of a hare in pain, which is dreadful, the cry of
a man in agony, which is worse.

"Good heavens!  I have hit a beater!" exclaimed Sir Geoffrey.  "What an ass the man was to
get in front of the guns!  Stop shooting there!" he called out at the top of his voice.  "A
man is hurt."

The head-keeper came running up with a stick in his hand.

"Where, sir?  Where is he?" he shouted.  At the same time, the firing ceased along the line.

"Here," answered Sir Geoffrey angrily, hurrying towards the thicket. "Why on earth don't you
keep your men back?  Spoiled my shooting for the day."

Dorian watched them as they plunged into the alder-clump, brushing the lithe swinging branches
aside.  In a few moments they emerged, dragging a body after them into the sunlight.  He turned
away in horror.  It seemed to him that misfortune followed wherever he went.  He heard Sir
Geoffrey ask if the man was really dead, and the affirmative answer of the keeper.  The wood
seemed to him to have become suddenly alive with faces.  There was the trampling of myriad
feet and the low buzz of voices.  A great copper-breasted pheasant came beating through the
boughs overhead.

After a few moments--that were to him, in his perturbed state, like endless hours of pain--he
felt a hand laid on his shoulder.  He started and looked round.

"Dorian," said Lord Henry, "I had better tell them that the shooting is stopped for to-day.
It would not look well to go on."

"I wish it were stopped for ever, Harry," he answered bitterly.  "The whole thing is hideous
and cruel.  Is the man ...?"

He could not finish the sentence.

"I am afraid so," rejoined Lord Henry.  "He got the whole charge of shot in his chest.  He
must have died almost instantaneously.  Come; let us go home."

They walked side by side in the direction of the avenue for nearly fifty yards without speaking.
Then Dorian looked at Lord Henry and said, with a heavy sigh, "It is a bad omen, Harry, a very
bad omen."

"What is?" asked Lord Henry.  "Oh! this accident, I suppose.  My dear fellow, it can't be helped.
It was the man's own fault.  Why did he get in front of the guns?  Besides, it is nothing to
us.  It is rather awkward for Geoffrey, of course.  It does not do to pepper beaters.  It makes
people think that one is a wild shot.  And Geoffrey is not; he shoots very straight.  But there
is no use talking about the matter."

Dorian shook his head.  "It is a bad omen, Harry.  I feel as if something horrible were going
to happen to some of us.  To myself, perhaps," he added, passing his hand over his eyes, with
a gesture of pain.

The elder man laughed.  "The only horrible thing in the world is ennui, Dorian.  That is the
one sin for which there is no forgiveness.  But we are not likely to suffer from it unless
these fellows keep chattering about this thing at dinner.  I must tell them that the subject
is to be tabooed.  As for omens, there is no such thing as an omen.  Destiny does not send
us heralds.  She is too wise or too cruel for that. Besides, what on earth could happen to
you, Dorian?  You have everything in the world that a man can want.  There is no one who would
not be delighted to change places with you."

"There is no one with whom I would not change places, Harry.  Don't laugh like that.  I am
telling you the truth.  The wretched peasant who has just died is better off than I am.  I
have no terror of death.  It is the coming of death that terrifies me.  Its monstrous wings
seem to wheel in the leaden air around me.  Good heavens! don't you see a man moving behind
the trees there, watching me, waiting for me?"

Lord Henry looked in the direction in which the trembling gloved hand was pointing.  "Yes,"
he said, smiling, "I see the gardener waiting for you.  I suppose he wants to ask you what
flowers you wish to have on the table to-night. How absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow!
You must come and see my doctor, when we get back to town."

Dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching.  The man touched his hat,
glanced for a moment at Lord Henry in a hesitating manner, and then produced a letter, which
he handed to his master. "Her Grace told me to wait for an answer," he murmured.

Dorian put the letter into his pocket.  "Tell her Grace that I am coming in," he said, coldly.
The man turned round and went rapidly in the direction of the house.

"How fond women are of doing dangerous things!" laughed Lord Henry. "It is one of the qualities
in them that I admire most.  A woman will flirt with anybody in the world as long as other
people are looking on."

"How fond you are of saying dangerous things, Harry!  In the present instance, you are quite
astray.  I like the duchess very much, but I don't love her."

"And the duchess loves you very much, but she likes you less, so you are excellently matched."

"You are talking scandal, Harry, and there is never any basis for scandal."

"The basis of every scandal is an immoral certainty," said Lord Henry, lighting a cigarette.

"You would sacrifice anybody, Harry, for the sake of an epigram."

"The world goes to the altar of its own accord," was the answer.

"I wish I could love," cried Dorian Gray with a deep note of pathos in his voice.  "But I seem
to have lost the passion and forgotten the desire.  I am too much concentrated on myself. 
My own personality has become a burden to me.  I want to escape, to go away, to forget.  It
was silly of me to come down here at all.  I think I shall send a wire to Harvey to have the
yacht got ready.  On a yacht one is safe."

"Safe from what, Dorian?  You are in some trouble.  Why not tell me what it is?  You know I
would help you."

"I can't tell you, Harry," he answered sadly.  "And I dare say it is only a fancy of mine.
This unfortunate accident has upset me.  I have a horrible presentiment that something of the
kind may happen to me."

"What nonsense!"

"I hope it is, but I can't help feeling it.  Ah! here is the duchess, looking like Artemis
in a tailor-made gown.  You see we have come back, Duchess."

"I have heard all about it, Mr. Gray," she answered.  "Poor Geoffrey is terribly upset.  And
it seems that you asked him not to shoot the hare. How curious!"

"Yes, it was very curious.  I don't know what made me say it.  Some whim, I suppose.  It looked
the loveliest of little live things.  But I am sorry they told you about the man.  It is a
hideous subject."

"It is an annoying subject," broke in Lord Henry.  "It has no psychological value at all. 
Now if Geoffrey had done the thing on purpose, how interesting he would be!  I should like
to know some one who had committed a real murder."

"How horrid of you, Harry!" cried the duchess.  "Isn't it, Mr. Gray? Harry, Mr. Gray is ill
again.  He is going to faint."

Dorian drew himself up with an effort and smiled.  "It is nothing, Duchess," he murmured; "my
nerves are dreadfully out of order.  That is all.  I am afraid I walked too far this morning.
I didn't hear what Harry said.  Was it very bad?  You must tell me some other time.  I think
I must go and lie down.  You will excuse me, won't you?"

They had reached the great flight of steps that led from the conservatory on to the terrace.
As the glass door closed behind Dorian, Lord Henry turned and looked at the duchess with his
slumberous eyes.  "Are you very much in love with him?" he asked.

She did not answer for some time, but stood gazing at the landscape. "I wish I knew," she said
at last.

He shook his head.  "Knowledge would be fatal.  It is the uncertainty that charms one.  A mist
makes things wonderful."

"One may lose one's way."

"All ways end at the same point, my dear Gladys."

"What is that?"

"Disillusion."

"It was my debut in life," she sighed.

"It came to you crowned."

"I am tired of strawberry leaves."

"They become you."

"Only in public."

"You would miss them," said Lord Henry.

"I will not part with a petal."

"Monmouth has ears."

"Old age is dull of hearing."

"Has he never been jealous?"

"I wish he had been."

He glanced about as if in search of something.  "What are you looking for?" she inquired.

"The button from your foil," he answered.  "You have dropped it."

She laughed.  "I have still the mask."

"It makes your eyes lovelier," was his reply.

She laughed again.  Her teeth showed like white seeds in a scarlet fruit.

Upstairs, in his own room, Dorian Gray was lying on a sofa, with terror in every tingling fibre
of his body.  Life had suddenly become too hideous a burden for him to bear.  The dreadful
death of the unlucky beater, shot in the thicket like a wild animal, had seemed to him to pre-figure
death for himself also.  He had nearly swooned at what Lord Henry had said in a chance mood
of cynical jesting.

At five o'clock he rang his bell for his servant and gave him orders to pack his things for
the night-express to town, and to have the brougham at the door by eight-thirty. He was determined
not to sleep another night at Selby Royal.  It was an ill-omened place.  Death walked there
in the sunlight.  The grass of the forest had been spotted with blood.

Then he wrote a note to Lord Henry, telling him that he was going up to town to consult his
doctor and asking him to entertain his guests in his absence.  As he was putting it into the
envelope, a knock came to the door, and his valet informed him that the head-keeper wished
to see him.  He frowned and bit his lip.  "Send him in," he muttered, after some moments' hesitation.

As soon as the man entered, Dorian pulled his chequebook out of a drawer and spread it out
before him.

"I suppose you have come about the unfortunate accident of this morning, Thornton?" he said,
taking up a pen.

"Yes, sir," answered the gamekeeper.

"Was the poor fellow married?  Had he any people dependent on him?" asked Dorian, looking bored.
"If so, I should not like them to be left in want, and will send them any sum of money you
may think necessary."

"We don't know who he is, sir.  That is what I took the liberty of coming to you about."

"Don't know who he is?" said Dorian, listlessly.  "What do you mean? Wasn't he one of your men?"

"No, sir.  Never saw him before.  Seems like a sailor, sir."

The pen dropped from Dorian Gray's hand, and he felt as if his heart had suddenly stopped beating.
"A sailor?" he cried out.  "Did you say a sailor?"

"Yes, sir.  He looks as if he had been a sort of sailor; tattooed on both arms, and that kind
of thing."

"Was there anything found on him?" said Dorian, leaning forward and looking at the man with
startled eyes.  "Anything that would tell his name?"

"Some money, sir--not much, and a six-shooter. There was no name of any kind.  A decent-looking
man, sir, but rough-like. A sort of sailor we think."

Dorian started to his feet.  A terrible hope fluttered past him.  He clutched at it madly.
"Where is the body?" he exclaimed.  "Quick!  I must see it at once."

"It is in an empty stable in the Home Farm, sir.  The folk don't like to have that sort of
thing in their houses.  They say a corpse brings bad luck."

"The Home Farm!  Go there at once and meet me.  Tell one of the grooms to bring my horse round.
No. Never mind.  I'll go to the stables myself.  It will save time."

In less than a quarter of an hour, Dorian Gray was galloping down the long avenue as hard as
he could go.  The trees seemed to sweep past him in spectral procession, and wild shadows to
fling themselves across his path.  Once the mare swerved at a white gate-post and nearly threw
him. He lashed her across the neck with his crop.  She cleft the dusky air like an arrow. 
The stones flew from her hoofs.

At last he reached the Home Farm.  Two men were loitering in the yard. He leaped from the saddle
and threw the reins to one of them.  In the farthest stable a light was glimmering.  Something
seemed to tell him that the body was there, and he hurried to the door and put his hand upon
the latch.

There he paused for a moment, feeling that he was on the brink of a discovery that would either
make or mar his life.  Then he thrust the door open and entered.

On a heap of sacking in the far corner was lying the dead body of a man dressed in a coarse
shirt and a pair of blue trousers.  A spotted handkerchief had been placed over the face. 
A coarse candle, stuck in a bottle, sputtered beside it.

Dorian Gray shuddered.  He felt that his could not be the hand to take the handkerchief away,
and called out to one of the farm-servants to come to him.

"Take that thing off the face.  I wish to see it," he said, clutching at the door-post for support.

When the farm-servant had done so, he stepped forward.  A cry of joy broke from his lips. 
The man who had been shot in the thicket was James Vane.

He stood there for some minutes looking at the dead body.  As he rode home, his eyes were full
of tears, for he knew he was safe.

CHAPTER 19

"There is no use your telling me that you are going to be good," cried Lord Henry, dipping
his white fingers into a red copper bowl filled with rose-water. "You are quite perfect.  Pray,
don't change."

Dorian Gray shook his head.  "No, Harry, I have done too many dreadful things in my life. 
I am not going to do any more.  I began my good actions yesterday."

"Where were you yesterday?"

"In the country, Harry.  I was staying at a little inn by myself."

