She now presented herself before the Protector and his council, as a distracted mother, ignorant
of the fate of her only son, and praying for a minute investigation of the mysterious business.
A request from the patroness of the fanatics imperatively demanded attention. Several of their
leaders were her devoted friends, and the fine qualities of young Sedley had really attracted
Cromwell's notice, who, though he was incapable of loving virtue and honour, ever wished to
engage them in his service. It is but justice to the Usurper's administration to say, that,
except when his government or personal security were concerned, he was an impartial and vigorous
administrator of the criminal laws, never sparing rank, or shielding greatness. But though
justice thus beamed on those who had not made themselves conspicuous by their principles, a
known royalist could not expect her smiles, a warrant was therefore dispatched to apprehend
Dr. Beaumont, and Morgan was charged with its execution.

About this time that unhappy family were reduced to the last stage of pecuniary distress. Their
good friend Barton was still in confinement, persecuted with the most inveterate hatred by
Lady Bellingham's party, and as his revenue was sequestered, no remittances could come from
that quarter. At the death of Farmer Humphreys, the church-land he had occupied was taken from
his widow, who was now fallen into decay, and unable to assist the necessitous pastor she so
truly revered. The provision which the revolutionary government pretended to make to the ejected
ministers, was at best irregularly supplied, and often totally withheld. The infirmities of
Colonel Evellin engrossing the whole time of Isabel, no fund could be raised from her industry,
and with prompt though perhaps imprudent loyalty Dr. Beaumont had sent the sum left by De Vallance
to the King's assistance when he made the last unsuccessful effort to obtain his crown. Want,
therefore, appeared before their eyes in all its horrors; the produce of their cow and their
garden, added to the kind attentions of the villagers, were their sole support.

It was impossible to conceal their difficulties from Evellin, who now earnestly prayed that
death would relieve his generous friend from the burden of his support. The firm and patient
Isabel could no longer divert him from these sad exclamations. She could not modulate her voice
to a song, nor attempt to engage his attention by reciting a tale of other times. She threw
her eyes upon the ground in silence, as if wishing to measure out his grave, and one where
she might sleep in peace beside him.

They were roused from the passive depression of poverty by the awakening call of imminent danger
to the person of him who, in all their former trials, had acted as their guardian angel to
avert or mitigate calamity. Morgan delivered, without any ceremony, to Dr. Beaumont an order
to attend the council of state in London, as a prisoner. The Doctor declared himself ready
to pay a quick obedience to the existing government in all lawful cases, but stated his extreme
penury and the utter destitution of his family. The rigid frugality of their habits was known;
and Morgan, now assuming an inquisitorial air, demanded what became of the moiety of the fifth
allowed to the expelled ministers, which he had last received. Dr. Beaumont was taken by surprize,
and before he could parry the impertinence of the question, was charged by Morgan with sending
pecuniary aid to Charles Stewart. This was now a crime against the state, for which many suffered.
Dr. Beaumont asked if this was the business on which he was summoned to London, and Morgan,
knowing that it was determined to take him by surprize respecting the charge of assassinating
De Vallance, answered sternly, that for this and various other misdemeanors he must be examined
before the council.

No heart that had not been steeled by malevolence against all the better feelings of humanity,
could have resisted the cries and supplications of Constantia, intreating that she might accompany
her father; but Morgan, recollecting that she in the pride of beauty had disdainfully rejected
his offer of marriage, took a savage pleasure in witnessing her affliction. To see the sorrows
of his darling child excite derision instead of pity and respect, consummated Dr. Beaumont's
anguish. Taking Constantia aside, he gave her his parting blessing, with a fervour that recalled
his own firmness, and imparted consolation to her. He reminded her how much her aunt, Evellin,
and Isabel, must now depend upon her exertions. He doubted not but commiseration for his misfortunes
would increase the benevolence of the villagers, and he intreated her to recollect, that as
her lamentations were unavailing, fortitude and patient endurance were the only means to subdue
the malice of their enemies. He recurred to his favourite argument, that an oppressor is merely
an instrument of chastisement in the hand of Almighty goodness, whose ultimate purposes are
all mercy and wisdom. A tyrant's wrath cannot pass its prescribed bounds; no earthly power
can take us out of the omnipotent hands of our Creator; nor will He ever fail those who firmly
trust in His care, and sincerely obey His precepts. "Courage, my child," said he, as he kissed
her pale cold cheek, "I have committed no crimes either against the state or any individual:
I shall soon be allowed to return. This affliction is the trial of your faith, not the punishment
of my guilt."

Dr. Beaumont did not venture to visit his concealed friend, but the lamentations of the villagers,
who surrounded their departing pastor with tears and blessings, added to the distress of Isabel,
soon informed Colonel Evellin that his revered protector was seized by the strong gripe of
power. He insisted on accompanying him to London as a fellow-prisoner, protesting he was ready
to defy Cromwell, accuse Bellingham, and die. Isabel had sufficient strength to prevent the
immediate execution of this rash purpose. "O think," said she, "that by so doing, you will
not only sacrifice yourself, but also my uncle. The very act of having concealed you is punishable
with death. For the sake of our best and kindest friend, a little longer exercise that fortitude
and patience which have been my support through years of apprehension and calamity. Let not
my long services within this narrow recess lose at last the desired reward of saving a parent,
more dear and precious from his undeserved calamities."

"Shall I perish for want, immured in this gloomy tenement?" said Evellin, wildly. "When my
friend is gone, who will provide a covering for this wretched body, or food to sustain it?--Have
I not told thee, girl, that De Vallance basks in luxurious state at Bellingham-Castle; and
I would sooner perish in a lazar-house than beg my bread of him? Dost thou not know his blood-hounds
yet surround these ruins, and that it is Beaumont only who has kept them from my war-worn trunk."

"Dearest father," resumed Isabel, "I can keep off the blood-hounds, and will daily lead you
forth to enjoy the warm sun-beams. Fear not; but trust in that Providence who feeds the young
ravens. How wonderful was its preservation of our King when hunted from forest to forest by
his merciless foes! The wants of nature are few and small. See how your despair makes me weep.
Oh, for the sake of my mother's memory, dry the tears of your orphan girl."

In this manner did Isabel try to console the man of many sorrows, but he had taken his resolution,
and even when most composed, would not be diverted from his purpose of following Dr. Beaumont
to London, that he might be ready to confront his enemies, or to share his fate. Mrs. Mellicent
was consulted on the subject, and she thought this determination should not be opposed. It
had been already agreed upon, that Constantia should follow her father, and attend him in confinement;
and it was now settled, that Isabel and Evellin should privately accompany her. Disguised as
beggars, they were removed out of the village, and being joined by Williams and Constantia,
proceeded towards London as fast as their destitute condition admitted.

They had left Waverly-Hall some weeks, when Dr. Lloyd and Jobson arrived to communicate tidings
which they thought would change the house of mourning to the abode of happiness. But no sound
or sight indicated that these lonely ruins now afforded shelter to man. No trace of inhabitants
was visible.--No monarch of the feathered brood was heard aloud to crow; no smoke rising from
the chimney announced the preparation of the homely, but social meal. Jobson entered at the
unresisting door; the furniture, like the family, had disappeared. He ventured into the secret
chamber, that too was vacant; nothing remained but the couch on which the noble veteran had
stretched his palsied frame, and, magnanimously enduring his own anguish, descanted on the
arduous duties of a soldier.

"Ah, worthy Doctor," said the dismayed Jobson, "those confounded Roundheads have caught him
at last. Here are some of the tatters of his poor old roque-laure, and the woollen cap Mrs.
Isabel used to draw over his head so carefully. Here she used to kneel by his side, say her
prayers, and sometimes sing in such a sweet low voice; and then the Colonel would kiss her,
and tell her she would kill herself with watching him. But when she crept through that little
arch to go away, he would look at her as if his soul was parting from his body. And then she
would come back again, and say she had not shaken hands with the honest trooper, (meaning me,)
and would whisper me, to keep up his spirits; and so they would trifle away half the night."--"'Serjeant,'
the Colonel used to say to me, bless his good heart! though I never was more than a corporal,
'that girl has the courage of a lion.' 'Aye, and as cunning as a fox too,' I used to answer.
'She is beautiful as an angel,' he went on; 'Did you ever see such eyes?'--'Never but my first
sweetheart's, Sally Malkins,' said I. But then he turned gruff, and would say, 'Pshaw!' for
he never could be pleased with any body praising Mrs. Isabel, but himself and that make-believe
good young Lord with a wicked father."

While Dr. Lloyd deliberated how to proceed, an aged woman appeared in sight, with a basket
on her arm, seemingly employed in gathering herbs. "St. George be my speed!" exclaimed Jobson;
"Can that be Madam Mellicent? Ah, sure enough it is her sharp wrinkled face: I never thought
she would bend her stiff joints, or walk in the dirt without her riding-hood." Dr. Lloyd offered
to go and accost her. "Not for your life," replied Jobson; "she never would forgive me for
letting you catch her thus out of sorts. Stop behind that buttress, and I'll go and tell her
there is some company coming, and when she has put on her pinners and facings, she will be
very glad to see you."

Mrs. Mellicent's appearance was too indicative of profound dejection for Dr. Lloyd to believe
she would require any introductory ceremonials. He ventured to salute her with an abrupt assurance,
that he was a warm friend of her family, intrusted with a welcome and important communication.
Mrs. Mellicent fixed her eyes upon him with that look of inquisitorial diffidence which those
who have long been familiarized with distress and injustice, bestow on the dawn of better days.
"I can hardly suspect," said she, "that you are one of those who find amusement in sporting
with the feelings of the unhappy. You see in me the forlorn relic of a respectable family,
now supported by those who were fed at its gates in the days of my prosperity. Yet as far as
I can, I try to be independent; and my knowledge in medicine allows me to alleviate the pains
of those who shelter my grey hairs.--My brother, his daughter, and the sole surviving child
of a beloved sister, now in Heaven, are at this moment exposed to the dreadful trial of Republican
persecution. Poverty chains me to this spot, where I drew my first breath, and where, if those
I love are sacrificed, I hope soon to close my eyes on sorrow." "You have," said Dr. Lloyd,
"omitted to name another strong tie which should bind you to life. You have a brave and gallant
nephew, who loves and honours the maternal aunt, who checked his extravagancies and fostered
his virtues."

"Eustace Evellin!" returned the good Lady, while her eyes filled with tears, "Did you know
him, Sir?--The murderous insurgents cut him off at Pembroke in cold blood. That is their usual
method; they only spare useless logs like myself--a withered blasted tree, stripped of all
its branches, fit only to sustain the trophies of their accursed triumph. How long, Lord, how
long!" continued she, wringing her hands and looking up to Heaven.

Dr. Lloyd now cautiously informed her of the almost miraculous escape of Eustace, and the lively
interest he took in his preservation. He added an account of the dangers of De Vallance, and
assured her, that he had left them both in his cottage, as safe and happy as English Loyalists
could be, while their country groaned under the yoke of Cromwell. The fortitude, nay even the
corporeal strength of Mrs. Mellicent, revived at the recital; her own necessities were forgotten,
and she scarcely lamented that she had not now a house to welcome, or even the widow's barley-cake
to bestow on, the kind protector of the generous youths whom she so fondly loved. Every regret
was lost in the prospect of better times, in the future happiness of Constantia and Isabel,
in the restoration of the Neville line, and the adoption of the amiable De Vallance into its
unpolluted branch. Only one life appeared to stand in the way of their felicity:--Remove the
stern Usurper, a penitent nation, weary of oppression, would joyfully welcome back its exiled
Sovereign. What might not the Beaumonts and the Nevilles hope from the justice of a Prince
for whom they had bled and suffered! Such agreeable reveries as these supported Mrs. Mellicent's
spirits during that long period of suspense, in which (for fiction must not anticipate the
slow progress of history) she expected their realization. And if hope invested the enlivening
phantom of royal gratitude in too gorgeous colours, may we not bless, rather than censure,
the fortunate delusion? We are to consider, that the venerable spinster having passed her days
in privacy, was ignorant of the chicanery of courts, and disposed to believe, that honour,
gratitude, and sincerity, are the inseparable concomitants of illustrious birth. She herself
never forgot either her benefactors or her enemies; and she knew not how early Princes are
taught to consider the sacrifice of life and fortune as positive debts due to them from their
subjects. She was not aware how often expediency compels them to smile on a potent enemy, and
to overlook an inefficient friend; how necessary it is for them to employ, as instruments,
the able and enterprising, rather than the amiable; and in fine, how much more apt the great
are to shower their favours on those whom they oblige by unexpected munificence, than to discharge
the claims of justice; to seek praise for liberality, instead of being contented with the merit
resulting from a mere performance of duty.

To return; the account which Mrs. Mellicent gave of the persecution raised by the Oliverian
government, determined Dr. Lloyd to prevent either of his young friends from becoming its victim.
They both recollected the anxiety of the late King to remove his heir beyond the power of his
rebel subjects, as soon as he found it was impossible for himself to escape; and that he even
considered the preservation of the Prince as a security for his own life. The event refuted
that conclusion; but it was owing to this forecast that the prayers and hopes of Englishmen
could still follow the princely fugitive. Whether he was shrouded in the oak at Boscobel-wood,
or coldly frowned on by the courts of France and Spain, England saw, in the lineal heir of
her monarchy, a pledge of the future restoration of her civil and ecclesiastical constitution,
and a guarantee to individuals against sequestrators and informers. The same judicious measures
which had preserved the Royal sapling when the parent-tree was felled, should be resorted to
for the safety of an illustrious private family; and Dr. Lloyd agreed to hurry back to North
Wales, and remove his precious charge to some more auspicious clime, before they heard of the
imprisonment of Dr. Beaumont. Virginia was objected to on account of its distance from the
scene of action. The power of Cromwell, so resistless in the centre of his government, was
somewhat relaxed in its more remote dependencies; and the island of Jersey was pointed out
as a spot where Eustace and De Vallance ran less hazard of being recognized by Cromwell's officers.

Loyalty was at this time a bond of endearment which united apparent strangers; Mrs. Mellicent
had an intimacy, in her early days, with a lady who was now wife to one of the most respectable
merchants at St. Helier. He was one who, though faithful to the King, had preserved such an
ostensible moderation in his conduct as to avoid offending his enemies; consequently, he had
it in his power to assist those braver spirits that had withstood the storm, and now required
shelter. A friendly intimation of remembrance, and an offer of aid had been transmitted by
this Lady to Mrs. Mellicent, and she advised Dr. Lloyd to fix his abode in that island, under
the character of a medical gentleman, travelling with two pupils, who were to study physic
at Leyden, but were required, by their infirm constitutions, to establish their health in a
salubrious climate, before they encountered the morasses and fogs of Holland.

Dr. Lloyd was not a friend by halves; he was willing to devote the remainder of his life and
fortune to the service of these interesting and deserving young men. He wrote a brief account
of the preservation of Eustace and the safety of De Vallance, and Jobson was sent with the
welcome communication to London, to lighten the woes of their affectionate and unhappy friends.
Dr. Lloyd returned to Wales with the utmost celerity. He avoided explaining the distressed
state of the family, contenting himself with assuring Eustace and De Vallance that Colonel
Evellin was alive, and that Isabel and Constance were faithful to their vows. The plan of emigration
to America must, he said, be abandoned, as it was impossible for the family to remove; but
as the preservation of their lives, in some degree depended on the concealment of Eustace,
it became necessary they should avoid the rigid scrutiny which Cromwell was now making after
obnoxious Loyalists, by removing to a retreat where, though the royal banner was not permitted
to fly, the inhabitants were allowed to remain in a sort of peaceable neutrality.

CHAP. XXIII.

    When the sword is drawn, and the power of the strongest is to
    decide, you talk in vain of equity and moderation; those virtues
    always belong to the conquerors. Thus it has happened to the
    Cheruscans: they were formerly called just and upright; at present
    they are called fools and knaves. Victory has transferred every
    virtue to their masters; and oppression takes the name of wisdom.

                                                 Murphy's Tacitus.

It was not the practice of Cromwell to bring to a speedy trial those state-prisoners against
whom he could produce no positive proof of the offence with which they were charged. Though
the palaces of the degraded bishops and exiled nobility were, during this reign of terror in
England, converted into places of confinement, the prisons continued crowded with victims.
Judges and juries were too slow and uncertain in their proceedings to be permitted to decide
on the fate of those whom the Protector of the liberties of England had pre-ordained to death
or captivity. High courts of justice were occasionally erected, and summary modes of trial
resorted to, which the ancient laws of the realm reprobated or disavowed. By these the Tyrant
freed himself from those more obnoxious enemies who had taken arms against his authority; but
the objects of his suspicious fear, whose enmity he knew, and whose ability he dreaded, still
remained in close confinement. The crime of some was having concealed Loyalists; many were
shut up for sending remittances to the King abroad, or for having shown him some mark of respect
and allegiance while he was in England. The presbyterians suffered for lamenting the fall of
the Long-parliament, and inveighing against the present tyranny; the Fifth-Monarchy-men, for
expecting the reign of King Jesus; the Levellers, for requiring Agrarian laws and the equalization
of property. The conduct of Cromwell had disgusted the whole body of sectaries as well as the
stanch Republicans. "Anabaptists, Independents, and Quakers conceived an implacable hatred
against him; and, whilst they contrived how to raise a power to contend with him, they likewise
entered into plots for his assassination." These plots, and the libellous writings by which
they excited insurrection, continually agitated the mind of Cromwell; for as his new enemies
were not restrained by those principles which prevented most of his old ones from resorting
to indirect modes of warfare, cutting off one daring villain added nothing to his security,
but rather stimulated that faction to vengeance. He had now humbled and disappointed all parties,
and could no longer play one against another. No one was attached to him; even those who had
gone equal lengths in guilt only clung to him as a pledge for their own security. Mercy and
lenity had no effect on those with whom he now contended. Lilburn, who may be considered as
an epitome of the fanatical opponents of Cromwell, "had wrought himself to a marvellous inclination
and appetite to suffer in the defence, or for the vindication of any oppressed truth." To men
who courted persecution, who gloried in personal suffering, and to whom, connecting their cause
with that of the Almighty, all measures seemed allowable which their humours suggested--the
axe and the gallows displayed no terrors; and it was as impossible to oblige as it was to intimidate
them. They despised temporal possessions, and braced their iron-nerves with misapplications
of the texts and examples of Scripture, believing that, in performing the actions of banditti,
they were proving themselves to be chosen captains of the host of the Lord.

As the labours of the itinerant preachers already described had converted thousands of the
lower orders into ignorant and desperate, and, it might be added, insane, enthusiasts, a mind
less indefatigable than Cromwell's would have been wholly engrossed in securing his person
and government from their violence and hostile machinations; but his fear of his new enemies
did not make him forget his hatred of his old ones. The fanatical conspirators and insurgents
being more inimical to the general good sense of the nation, he often submitted them to the
ordinary courts of justice, contenting himself (as in the case of Lilburn) with making acquittal
issue in more rigorous imprisonment, when a jury had the presumption to decide in favour of
a prisoner whom the Protector had resolved to punish. Desirous of conciliating the good opinion
of well-informed people, he preserved the fountain of justice uncontaminated. The judges who
presided in the several courts were in general an honour to their country; and many of them
(especially the immortal Hale) accepted the office, in order to be better able to restrain
oppression, "knowing that in every form of government justice must be administered between
man and man, and offenders against the universal laws of society punished." By such judges,
a Gerrard, a Hewet, a Hyde, and other illustrious Loyalists, would not have been condemned.
Against such persons, therefore, Cromwell was compelled to rearrange his pantomimic High Court
of Justice, that contemptible but bloody engine, by which he had destroyed the King and the
nobles, and to whose authority, as anomalous to the constitution, his victims generally refused
to submit, and were thus condemned without any public discussion.

Had Cromwell determined to try Dr. Beaumont for sending pecuniary assistance to the King (an
offence which he had the means of proving), he would have immediately collected his creatures
and erected one of these executive courts; but if the suspicion of assassinating an officer,
who bore a parliamentary commission, could be supported by stronger proofs than the accusation
of Lady Bellingham, and the probabilities suggested by Morgan, he need not fear permitting
justice to mount her regular seat, and hold her balance in the public eye. No charge of cruelty
or persecution could then be brought against him; and the public odium would be transferred
to the episcopalians and Loyalists. He attended the first examination of the Doctor before
the Council of State, on the ostensible accusation of assisting the King, and saw, in his behaviour,
an enlightened opposer of tyranny, and a conscientious adherent to the old government. Such
a man, he resolved, should either be cut off, or prevented from doing him any injury. The best
policy, therefore, was to defer his trial, and to send down some active emissaries to Ribblesdale
to examine minutely into his past conversation, and discover whether any ground of accusation
existed against him. At least to ascertain that Sedley had really been cut off, and that Dr.
Beaumont had no evidence to disprove his being concerned in the transaction.

Dr. Beaumont was therefore remanded into close confinement. His family had gathered round him,
and were supported by the generous contributions of those Loyalists who had hitherto escaped
persecution, but made a common cause with their suffering brethren, and liberally ministered
to their distresses. Colonel Evellin was concealed in an obscure lodging near the Marshalsea,
where Dr. Beaumont was imprisoned. Constantia and Isabel, with patient fortitude, ministered
to their respective fathers, while Williams carried on a confidential intercourse with the
noble and worthy friends by whom they were supported. Some of these were in the confidence
of Lord Falconberg, the accepted lover of one of Cromwell's daughters, and who was thought
by many to have sought that alliance with the view of mediating for the persecuted victims
to a cause which himself and his family had ever decidedly espoused.

Affairs were in this situation when Jobson arrived in London, and produced Dr. Lloyd's letter,
which, confirmed by his own testimony, fully verified the existence of Eustace, the safety
of De Vallance, and their welfare and comparative happiness. What a weight of anguish was removed
from these amiable victims of tyranny by the intelligence! Imprisonment, poverty, dependence,
personal infirmity, were all supportable evils. But for a complete exemplification of the extreme
limit of human misery, we must look to the oppressor, not to the oppressed; to Cromwell, galled
by the armour worn under his robes of state to defend his person from the expected dagger of
a murderer, and not to Dr. Beaumont, languishing for want of the common blessings which freedom
bestows, or to Evellin, an aged cripple in the lonely confined chamber of poverty. Cromwell
had no daughter who revered his virtues, and cheered his pensive contemplations with the assurance
that the righteous sufferer was under the peculiar protection of Heaven. Most of his daughters
were strongly attached to the royal cause. The wife of Fleetwood (his eldest) was a furious
Republican; Desborough, his brother-in-law, was a Leveller; and his eldest son was incompetent
to receive that weight of usurped greatness which he wished to bequeath him. Such was the domestic
situation of the man at whose frown Europe trembled. Ever in dread of assassins and conspirators,
vexed by family-broils, his nearest connexions hostile to his views, without solace from public
care, or sympathy in private distress.

The preservation of his son seemed to bestow on Colonel Evellin a new existence. He was never
weary of listening to the particulars of his escape. Again and again he required Jobson to
repeat the assurance, that he had actually held in his arms the living Eustace; the determined
martyr to loyalty and truth; the brave, conspicuous, honourable soldier; his own dear son,
not a traitor to his King or his love, but all that he could wish a true Neville to be, except
in his misfortunes. It seemed a double resurrection to life, and to unclouded fame. And was
it possible he might again see him at his feet craving his blessing? Should his hand rest upon
his head, while, with a prophetic ardour, he predicted a race of worthies that should spring
from him--future heroes, patriots, and faithful subjects, alike tenacious of their Sovereign's
rights and of the claims of their countrymen. What were privations, infirmities, and restraints
to a mind animated with these glorious hopes? He limped on his staff round his narrow room,
lest his limbs should grow too contracted to visit every apartment in Bellingham-Castle. He
partook of his frugal meal, and talked of the joyous regales he would provide for his tenantry.
He was no longer the existing root of a tree that had been hewn down; one fatal shot had not
smitten his Eustace, and doomed his Isabel to remain a vestal mourner over her brother's grave.
De Vallance and Eustace were now cementing that bond of virtuous friendship which would distinguish
them in happier times; and those times would soon return. The generous feelings of English
nobles would not long endure the national degradation. They had taught the Norman Conqueror
to venerate their ancient rights. They had resisted every attempt of the princely house of
Plantagenet to sink subjects into vassals. The First Edward, great in council and in arms,
found his people alike invincible in the field, whether they followed his banner under an Asian
or a Northern sky, or opposed his violation of their chartered rights! Could a nation, which
would only pay a constitutional obedience to a Beauclerk or a Coeur de Lion, which served,
not submitted to, the heroes of Cressy and of Agincourt, long writhe under the scorpion-lash
of despotism wielded by a low Usurper, whose manners and sentiments were inimical to the general
tone of the English character--a man pre-eminent in fraud and hypocrisy, and ignorant of the
lively yearnings of humanity.

