THE CATHEDRAL

A Novel

by HUGH WALPOLE

Author of The Young Enchanted, The Captives, Jeremy, The Secret City, The Green Mirror, etc.

TO JESSIE AND JOSEPH CONRAD WITH MUCH LOVE

CONTENTS

BOOK I: Prelude

   I.  Brandons
  II.  Ronders
 III.  One of Joan's Days
  IV.  The Impertinent Elephan
   V.  Mrs. Brandon Goes Out to Tea
  VI.  Seatown Mist and Cathedral Dust
 VII.  Ronder's Day
VIII.  Son--Father

BOOK II: The Whispering Gallery

   I.  Five O'Clock--The Green Cloud
  II.  Souls on Sunday
 III.  The May-Day Prologue
  IV.  The Genial Heart
   V.  Falk by the River
  VI.  Falk's Flight
 VII.  Brandon Puts On His Armour
VIII.  The Wind Flies Over the House
  IX.  The Quarrel

Book III: The Jubilee

   I.  June 17, Thursday: Anticipation
  II.  Friday, June 18: Shadow Meets Shadow
 III.  Saturday, June 19: The Ball
  IV.  Sunday, June 20: In the Bedroom
   V.  Tuesday, June 22: I. The Cathedral
  VI.  Tuesday, June 22: II. The Fair
 VII.  Tuesday, June 22: III. Torchlight

Book IV: The Last Stand

   I.  In Ronder's House: Ronder, Wistons
  II.  Two in the House
 III.  Prelude to Battle
  IV.  The Last Tournament

Book I

Prelude

"Thou shalt have none other gods but Me."

Chapter I

Brandons

Adam Brandon was born at Little Empton in Kent in 1839. He was educated at the King's School,
Canterbury, and at Pembroke College, Cambridge. Ordained in 1863, he was first curate at St.
Martin's, Portsmouth, then Chaplain to the Bishop of Worcester; in the year 1875 he accepted
the living of Pomfret in Wiltshire and was there for twelve years. It was in 1887 that he came
to our town; he was first Canon and afterwards Archdeacon. Ten years later he had, by personal
influence and strength of character, acquired so striking a position amongst us that he was
often alluded to as "the King of Polchester." His power was the greater because both our Bishop
(Bishop Purcell) and our Dean (Dean Sampson) during that period were men of retiring habits
of life. A better man, a greater saint than Bishop Purcell has never lived, but in 1896 he
was eighty-six years of age and preferred study and the sanctity of his wonderful library at
Carpledon to the publicity and turmoil of a public career; Dean Sampson, gentle and amiable
as he was, was not intended by nature for a moulder of men. He was, however, one of the best
botanists in the County and his little book on "Glebshire Ferns" is, I believe, an authority
in its own line.

Archdeacon Brandon was, of course, greatly helped by his magnificent physical presence. "Magnificent"
is not, I think, too strong a word. Six feet two or three in height, he had the figure of an
athlete, light blue eyes, and his hair was still, when he was fifty-eight years of age, thick
and fair and curly like that of a boy. He looked, indeed, marvellously young, and his energy
and grace of movement might indeed have belonged to a youth still in his teens. It is not difficult
to imagine how startling an effect his first appearance in Polchester created. Many of the
Polchester ladies thought that he was like "a Greek God" (the fact that they had never seen
one gave them the greater confidence), and Miss Dobell, who was the best read of all the ladies
in our town, called him "the Viking." This stuck to him, being an easy and emphatic word and
pleasantly cultured.

Indeed, had Brandon come to Polchester as a single man there might have been many broken hearts;
however, in 1875 he had married Amy Broughton, then a young girl of twenty. He had by her two
children, a boy, Falcon, now twenty-one years of age, and a girl, Joan, just eighteen. Brandon
therefore was safe from the feminine Polchester world; our town is famous among Cathedral cities
for the morality of its upper classes.

It would not have been possible during all these years for Brandon to have remained unconscious
of the remarkable splendour of his good looks. He was very well aware of it, but any one who
called him conceited (and every one has his enemies) did him a grave injustice. He was not
conceited at all-- he simply regarded himself as a completely exceptional person. He was not
elated that he was exceptional, he did not flatter himself because it was so; God had seen
fit (in a moment of boredom, perhaps, at the number of insignificant and misshaped human beings
He was forced to create) to fling into the world, for once, a truly Fine Specimen, Fine in
Body, Fine in Soul, Fine in Intellect. Brandon had none of the sublime egoism of Sir Willoughby
Patterne--he thought of others and was kindly and often unselfish--but he did, like Sir Willoughby,
believe himself to be of quite another clay from the rest of mankind. He was intended to rule,
God had put him into the world for that purpose, and rule he would--to the glory of God and
a little, if it must be so, to the glory of himself. He was a very simple person, as indeed
were most of the men and women in the Polchester of 1897. He did not analyse motives, whether
his own or any one else's; he was aware that he had "weaknesses" (his ungovernable temper was
a source of real distress to him at times--at other times he felt that it had its uses). On
the whole, however, he was satisfied with himself, his appearance, his abilities, his wife,
his family, and, above all, his position in Polchester. This last was very splendid.

His position in the Cathedral, in the Precincts, in the Chapter, in the Town, was unshakable.

He trusted in God, of course, but, like a wise man, he trusted also in himself.

It happened that on a certain wild and stormy afternoon in October 1896 Brandon was filled
with a great exultation. As he stood, for a moment, at the door of his house in the Precincts
before crossing the Green to the Cathedral, he looked up at the sky obscured with flying wrack
of cloud, felt the rain drive across his face, heard the elms in the neighbouring garden creaking
and groaning, saw the lights of the town far beneath the low wall that bounded the Precincts
sway and blink in the storm, his heart beat with such pride and happiness that it threatened
to burst the body that contained it. There had not been, perhaps, that day anything especially
magnificent to elate him; he had won, at the Chapter Meeting that morning, a cheap and easy
victory over Canon Foster, the only Canon in Polchester who still showed, at times, a wretched
pugnacious resistance to his opinion; he had met Mrs. Combermere afterwards in the High Street
and, on the strength of his Chapter victory, had dealt with her haughtily; he had received
an especially kind note from Lady St. Leath asking him to dinner early next month; but all
these events were of too usual a nature to excite his triumph.

No, there had descended upon him this afternoon that especial ecstasy that is surrendered once
and again by the gods to men to lead them, maybe, into some especial blunder or to sharpen,
for Olympian humour, the contrast of some swiftly approaching anguish.

Brandon stood for a moment, his head raised, his chest out, his soul in flight, feeling the
sharp sting of the raindrops upon his cheek; then, with a little breath of pleasure and happiness,
he crossed the Green to the little dark door of Saint Margaret's Chapel.

The Cathedral hung over him, as he stood, feeling in his pocket for his key, a huge black shadow,
vast indeed to-day, as it mingled with the grey sky and seemed to be taking part in the directing
of the wildness of the storm. Two little gargoyles, perched on the porch of Saint Margaret's
door, leered down upon the Archdeacon. The rain trickled down over their naked twisted bodies,
running in rivulets behind their outstanding ears, lodging for a moment on the projection of
their hideous nether lips. They grinned down upon the Archdeacon, amused that he should have
difficulty, there in the rain, in finding his key. "Pah!" they heard him mutter, and then,
perhaps, something worse. The key was found, and he had then to bend his great height to squeeze
through the little door. Once inside, he was at the corner of the Saint Margaret Chapel and
could see, in the faint half-light, the rosy colours of the beautiful Saint Margaret window
that glimmered ever so dimly upon the rows of cane-bottomed chairs, the dingy red hassocks,
and the brass tablets upon the grey stone walls. He walked through, picking his way carefully
in the dusk, saw for an instant the high, vast expanse of the nave with its few twinkling lights
that blew in the windy air, then turned to the left into the Vestry, closing the door behind
him. Even as he closed the door he could hear high, high up above him the ringing of the bell
for Evensong.

In the Vestry he found Canon Dobell and Canon Rogers. Dobell, the Minor Canon who was singing
the service, was a short, round, chubby clergyman, thirty-eight years of age, whose great aim
in life was to have an easy time and agree with every one. He lived with a sister in a little
house in the Precincts and gave excellent dinners. Very different was Canon Rogers, a thin
esthetic man with black bushy eyebrows, a slight stoop and thin brown hair. He took life with
grim seriousness. He was a stupid man but obstinate, dogmatic, and given to the condemnation
of his fellow-men. He hated innovations as strongly as the Archdeacon himself, but with his
clinging to old forms and rituals there went no self-exaltation. He was a cold-blooded man,
although his obstinacy seemed sometimes to point to a fiery fanaticism. But he was not a fanatic
any more than a mule is one when he plants his feet four-square and refuses to go forward.
No compliments nor threats could move him; he would have lived, had he had a spark of asceticism,
a hermit far from the haunts of men, but even that withdrawal would have implied devotion.
He was devoted to no one, to no cause, to no religion, to no ambition. He spent his days in
maintaining things as they were, not because he loved them, simply because he was obstinate.
Brandon quite frankly hated him.

In the farther room the choir-boys were standing in their surplices, whispering and giggling.
The sound of the bell was suddenly emphatic. Canon Rogers stood, his hands folded motionless,
gazing in front of him. Dobell, smiling so that a dimple appeared in each cheek, said in his
chuckling whisper to Brandon:

"Render comes to-day, doesn't he?"

"Ronder?" Brandon repeated, coming abruptly out of his secret exultation.

"Yes...Hart-Smith's successor."

"Oh, yes--I believe he does...."

Cobbett, the Verger, with his gold staff, appeared in the Vestry door. A tall handsome man,
he had been in the service of the Cathedral as man and boy for fifty years. He had his private
ambitions, the main one being that old Lawrence, the head Verger, in his opinion a silly old
fool, should die and permit his own legitimate succession. Another ambition was that he should
save enough money to buy another three cottages down in Seatown. He owned already six there.
But no one observing his magnificent impassivity (he was famous for this throughout ecclesiastical
Glebeshire) would have supposed that he had any thought other than those connected with ceremony.
As he appeared the organ began its voluntary, the music stealing through the thick grey walls,
creeping past the stout grey pillars that had listened, with so impervious an immobility, to
an endless succession of voluntaries. The Archdeacon prayed, the choir responded with a long
Amen, and the procession filed out, the boys with faces pious and wistful, the choir-men moving
with nonchalance, their restless eyes wandering over the scene so absolutely known to them.
Then came Rogers like a martyr; Dobell gaily as though he were enjoying some little joke of
his own; last of all, Brandon, superb in carriage, in dignity, in his magnificent recognition
of the value of ceremony.

Because to-day was simply an ordinary afternoon with an ordinary Anthem and an ordinary service
(Martin in F) the congregation was small, the gates of the great screen closed with a clang
behind the choir, and the nave, purple grey under the soft light of the candle-lit choir, was
shut out into twilight. In the high carved seats behind and beyond the choir the congregation
was sitting; Miss Dobell, who never missed a service that her brother was singing, with her
pinched white face and funny old- fashioned bonnet, lost between the huge arms of her seat;
Mrs. Combermere, with a friend, stiff and majestic; Mrs. Cole and her sister-in-law, Amy Cole;
a few tourists; a man or two; Major Drake, who liked to join in the psalms with his deep bass;
and little Mr. Thompson, one of the masters at the School who loved music and always came to
Evensong when he could.

There they were then, and the Archdeacon, looking at them from his stall, could not but feel
that they were rather a poor lot. Not that he exactly despised them; he felt kindly towards
them and would have done no single one of them an injury, but he knew them all so well--Mrs.
Combermere, Miss Dobell, Mrs. Cole, Drake, Thompson. They were shadows before him. If he looked
hard at them, they seemed to disappear....

The exultation that he had felt as he stood outside his house-door increased with every moment
that passed. It was strange, but he had never, perhaps, in all his life been so happy as he
was at that hour. He was driven by the sense of it to that, with him, rarest of all things,
introspection. Why should he feel like this? Why did his heart beat thickly, why were his cheeks
flushed with a triumphant heat? It could not but be that he was realising to-day how everything
was well with him. And why should he not realise it? Looking up to the high vaulted roofs above
him, he greeted God, greeted Him as an equal, and thanked Him as a fellow- companion who had
helped him through a difficult and dusty journey. He thanked Him for his health, for his bodily
vigour and strength, for his beauty, for his good brain, for his successful married life, for
his wife (poor Amy), for his house and furniture, for his garden and tennis-lawn, for his carriage
and horses, for his son, for his position in the town, his dominance in the Chapter, his authority
on the School Council, his importance in the district.... For all these things he thanked God,
and he greeted Him with an outstretched hand.

"As one power to another," his soul cried, "greetings! You have been a true and loyal friend
to me. Anything that I can do for You I will do...."

The time came for him to read the First Lesson. He crossed to the Lectern and was conscious
that the tourists were whispering together about him. He read aloud, in his splendid voice,
something about battles and vengeance, plagues and punishment, God's anger and the trembling
Israelites. He might himself have been an avenging God as he read. He was uplifted with the
glory of power and the exultation of personal dominion...

He crossed back to his seat, and, as they began the "Magnificat," his eye alighted on the tomb
of the Black Bishop. In the volume on Polchester in Chimes' Cathedral Series (4th edition,
1910), page 52, you will find this description of the Black Bishop's Tomb: "It stands between
the pillars at the far east end of the choir in the eighth bay from the choir screen. The stone
screen which surrounds the tomb is of most elaborate workmanship, and it has, in certain lights,
the effect of delicate lace; the canopy over the tomb has pinnacles which rise high above the
level of the choir- stalls. The tomb itself is made from a solid block of a dark blue stone.
The figure of the bishop, carved in black marble, lies with his hands folded across his breast,
clothed in his Episcopal robes and mitre, and crozier on his shoulder. At his feet are a vizor
and a pair of gauntlets, these also carved in black marble. On one finger of his right hand
is a ring carved from some green stone. His head is raised by angels and at his feet beyond
the vizor and gauntlets are tiny figures of four knights fully armed. A small arcade runs round
the tomb with a series of shields in the spaces, and these shields have his motto, 'God giveth
Strength,' and the arms of the See of Polchester. His epitaph in brass round the edge of the
tomb has thus been translated:

"'Here, having surrendered himself back to God, lies Henry of Arden. His life, which was distinguished
for its great piety, its unfailing generosity, its noble statesmanship, was rudely taken in
the nave of this Cathedral by men who feared neither the punishment of their fellows nor the
just vengeance of an irate God.

"'He died, bravely defending this great house of Prayer, and is now, in eternal happiness,
fulfilling the reward of all good and faithful servants, at his Master's side.'"

It has been often remarked by visitors to the Cathedral how curiously this tomb catches light
from all sides of the building, but this is undoubtedly in the main due to the fact that the
blue stone of which it is chiefly composed responds immediately to the purple and violet lights
that fall from the great East window. On a summer day the blue of the tomb seems almost opaque
as though it were made of blue glass, and the gilt on the background of the screen and the
brasses of the groins glitter and sparkle like fire.

Brandon to-day, wrapped in his strange mood of almost mystical triumph, felt as though he were,
indeed, a reincarnation of the great Bishop.

As the "Magnificat" proceeded, he seemed to enter into the very tomb and share in the Bishop's
dust. "I stood beside you," he might almost have cried, "when in the last savage encounter
you faced them on the very steps of the altar, striking down two of them with your fists, falling
at last, bleeding from a hundred wounds, but crying at the very end, 'God is my right!'"

As he stared across at the tomb, he seemed to see the great figure, deserted by all his terrified
adherents, lying in his blood in the now deserted Cathedral; he saw the coloured dusk creep
forward and cover him. And then, in the darkness of the night, the two faithful servants who
crept in and carried away his body to keep it in safety until his day should come again.

Born in 1100, Henry of Arden had been the first Bishop to give Polchester dignity and power.
What William of Wykeham was to Winchester, that Henry of Arden was to the See of Polchester.
Through all the wild days of the quarrel between Stephen and Matilda he had stood triumphant,
yielding at last only to the mad overwhelming attacks of his private enemies. Of those he had
had many. It had been said of him that "he thought himself God--the proudest prelate on earth."
Proud he may have been, but he had loved his Bishopric. It was in his time that the Saint Margaret's
Chapel had been built, through his energy that the two great Western Towers had risen, because
of him that Polchester now could boast one of the richest revenues of any Cathedral in Europe.
Men said that he had plundered, stolen the land of powerless men, himself headed forays against
neighbouring villages and even castles. He had done it for the greater glory of God. They had
been troublous times. It had been every man for himself....

He had told his people that he was God's chief servant; it was even said that he had once,
in the plenitude of his power, cried that he was God Himself....

His figure remained to this very day dominating Polchester, vast in stature, black-bearded,
rejoicing in his physical strength. He could kill, they used to say, an ox with his fist....

The "Gloria" rang triumphantly up into the shadows of the nave. Brandon moved once more across
to the Lectern. He read of the casting of the money-changers out of the Temple.

His voice quivered with pride and exultation so that Cobbett, who had acquired, after many
years' practice, the gift of sleeping during the Lessons and Sermon with his eyes open, woke
up with a start and wondered what was the matter.

Brandon's mood, when he was back in his own drawing-room, did not leave him; it was rather
intensified by the cosiness and security of his home. Lying back in his large arm-chair in
front of the fire, his long legs stretched out before him, he could hear the rain beating on
the window- panes and beyond that the murmur of the organ (Brockett, the organist, was practising,
as he often did after Evensong).

The drawing-room was a long narrow one with many windows; it was furnished in excellent taste.
The carpet and the curtains and the dark blue coverings to the chairs were all a little faded,
but this only gave them an additional dignity and repose. There were two large portraits of
himself and Mrs. Brandon painted at the time of their marriage, some low white book-shelves,
a large copy of "Christ in the Temple"--plenty of space, flowers, light.

Mrs. Brandon was, at this time, a woman of forty-two, but she looked very much less than that.
She was slight, dark, pale, quite undistinguished. She had large grey eyes that looked on to
the ground when you spoke to her. She was considered a very shy woman, negative in every way.
She agreed with everything that was said to her and seemed to have no opinions of her own.
She was simply "the wife of the Archdeacon." Mrs. Combermere considered her a "poor little
fool." She had no real friends in Polchester, and it made little difference to any gathering
whether she were there or not. She had been only once known to lose her temper in public--once
in the market-place she had seen a farmer beat his horse over the eyes. She had actually gone
up to him and struck him. Afterwards she had said that "she did not like to see animals ill-treated."
The Archdeacon had apologised for her, and no more had been said about it. The farmer had borne
her no grudge.

She sat now at the little tea-table, her eyes screwed up over the serious question of giving
the Archdeacon his tea exactly as he wanted it. Her whole mind was apparently engaged on this
problem, and the Archdeacon did not care to-day that she did not answer his questions and support
his comments because he was very, very happy, the whole of his being thrilling with security
and success and innocent pride.

