THE TRAGEDIES OF THE MEDICI

BY EDGCUMBE STALEY

AUTHOR OF "THE GUILDS OF FLORENCE," "RAPHAEL," "FRA ANGELICO," ETC.

ILLUSTRATED

TO THE MEMORY OF MY FATHER THOMAS STALEY

PREFACE

When Alexandre Dumas wrote his Crimes of the Borgias--and other "Crimes"--he fully intended
to compile a companion volume, treating of episodes in the great family of the Medici. With
this project in view, he collected much material, and actually published, tentatively, two
interesting brochures: Une Année à Florence--in 1841, and Les Galeries de Florence--in 1842.

Nothing, however, came of his more ambitious "idea," and, until to-day, no one has taken in
hand to write The Tragedies of the Medici. My attention was first directed to the omission
during the preparation of my Guilds of Florence, published in 1906; and I determined to address
myself to the forging of that lurid link in the catena of Florentine romance.

In the following pages my readers will see that I have entirely departed from the conventional
conceits of the ordinary historian. I have sought to set out the whole truth--not a garbled
version--whilst I have fearlessly added decorative features where facts were absent or were
too prosaic.

The short "Introduction," dealing with the rise and progress of the house of Medici, will be
useful to my public, and the "Chart of the Tragedies" will assist students and others in their
appreciation of my enterprise--it is my own compilation and as complete as possible.

The "Bibliography" will help serious readers to a wider reading of my authorities, and the
Illustrations--the best procurable--will fix in all my readers' minds something of the actual
personalities of my "Tyrants" and my "Victims."

EDGCUMBE STALEY.

CONTENTS

PREFACE

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER I

The Pazzi Conspiracy--Lorenzo, "Il Magnifico"--Giuliano, "Il Pensieroso".

CHAPTER II

The First Tyrannicide--Ippolito, "Il Cardinale"--Alessandro, "Il Negro"--Lorenzino, "Il Terribile".

CHAPTER III

A Father's Vengeance--Maria, Giovanni, and Garzia de' Medici--Malatesta de' Malatesti.

CHAPTER IV

Three Murdered Princesses--Lucrezia, Duchess of Ferrara and Creole de' Contrari--Eleanora Garzia,
wife of Piero de Medici, Alessandro Gaci, and Bernardino degl' Antinori--Isabella, Duchess
of Bracciano--Troilo d'Orsini and Lelio Torello.

CHAPTER V

True and False Lovers--Francesco, "Il Virtuoso"--Bianca Cappello, "La Figlia di Venezia"--Pietro
Buonaventuri--Cassandra de' Borghiani--Pellegrina Buonaventuri, wife of Ulisse Bentivoglio--Antonio
Riario.

CHAPTER VI

Pathetic Victims of Fateful Passion--Eleanora degli Albizzi and Sforza Almeni--Cammilla de'
Martelli--Virginia de' Medici e d'Este--Cardinal Ferdinando de' Medici.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

INDEX

CHART OF THE TRAGEDIES

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Bianca Cappello-Buonaventuri Giovanni d'Averardo de' Medici "Journey of the Magi" (Medici)
"Adoration of the Magi" (Medici) Lucrezia de' Medici Lorenzo Il Magnifico Giuliano Il Pensieroso
Ippolito--Cardinal Alessandro--First Duke of Florence Giovanni--"Delle Bande Nere" Eleanora
de' Medici Maria Lucrezia de' Medici Giovanni--Cardinal Garzia de' Medici Lucrezia--Duchess
of Ferrara Eleanora--Wife of Piero de' Medici Piero de' Medici Isabella--Duchess of Bracciano
Francesco--Grand Duke of Tuscany Giovanna de' Medici Don Antonio "de' Medici" Pellegrina Buonaventuri-Bentivoglio
Cosimo I--"Tyrant of Tyrants" Cammilla de' Medici Ferdinando de' Medici--Cardinal

INTRODUCTION

The origin of the Medici family is lost in the mists of the Middle Ages, and, only here and
there, can the historian gain glimpses of the lives of early forbears. Still, there is sufficient
data, to be had for the digging, upon which to transcribe, inferentially at least, an interesting
narrative.

Away towards the end of the twelfth century,--exact dates are wholly beside the mark--there
dwelt, under the shadow of one of the rugged castles of the robber-captains of the Mugello
in Tuscany, a hard-working and trustworthy bonds-man--one Chiarissimo--"Old Honesty," as we
may call him. He was married to an excellent helpmeet, and was by his lord permitted to till
a small piece of land and rear his family.

In addition to intelligence in agriculture, it would seem that he, or perhaps his wife, possessed
some knowledge of the virtues of roots and herbs, for, in one corner of his podere, he had
a garden of "simples." The few peaceable inhabitants of that warlike valley, and also many
a wounded man-at-arms, sought "Old Honesty" and his wise mate for what we now call "kitchen
remedies."

Those, indeed, were happy days with respect to suffering human nature. "Kill or Cure" might
have been the character of the healing art, but certainly specialists had not invented our
appendicitis and other fashionable twentieth-century physical fashions! A little medical knowledge
sufficed, and decoctions, pillules, poultices, and bleedings made up the simple pharmacopoeia.

All the same, the satirical rhyme, which an old chronicler put into the mouths of many a despairing
patient, in later days, may have been true also of "Old Honesty" and his nostrums:

"There's not a herb nor a root Nor any remedy to boot Which can stave death off by a foot!"

Of that good couple's family only one name has been preserved--Gianbuono, "Good John." Passerini
says he was a priest--probably he means a hermit. Anyhow, he acquired more property in the
Valle della Sieve and founded a church--Santa Maria dell' Assunta--possibly the enlargement
of his cell--upon Monte Senario, between the valley of the Arno and that of the Sieve.

Ser Gianbuono--ecclesiastic or not--had two sons--Bonagiunto, "Lucky Lad," and Chiarissimo
II. In those primitive times nobody troubled about surnames--idiosyncrasy of any kind was a
sufficient indication of individuality. The brothers were enterprising fellows, and both made
tracks for Florence, which--risen Phoenix-like from barbarian ashes--was thriving marvellously
as a mart for art and craft.

Ser Bonagiunto, in the first decade of the thirteenth century, was living in the Sestiere di
Porta del Duomo, and working busily in wood and stone, the stalwart parent of a vigorous progeny.
It was his great-grandson, Ardingo--a famous athlete in the giostre and a soldier of renown--who
first of his family attained the rank of Signore.

Ser Chiarissimo, between 1201-1210, owned a tower near San Tommaso, at the north-east angle
of the Mercato Vecchio--later, the family church of the Medici--and under it a bottega, or
canova, for the sale of his grandmother's recipes. Over the door he put up his sign--seven
golden Pillole di Speziale--pills or balls, which were emblazoned upon the proud escutcheon
of his descendants. He was called "il Medico"--"the doctor"--hence the family name "Medici."

These were the days when the foundations of the fortunes of many great Florentine families
were laid. The loaning of money was the royal road to affluence, and everybody who, by chance,
had a spare gold florin or two, became ipso facto a "Presto" or bank. Next, after lending to
one another with a moderate profit--a dono di tempo or a merito--"quick returns," came the
ambitious system of State loans, with the regulated interesso and the speculative dealings
in Cambio--on 'Change--with boroccolo--"unexpected gain," and ritravgola--"sly advantage,"
or, as we say, "sharp practice."

Ser Filippo, or "Lippo"--the twin son, as the name implies, of Ser Chiarissimo II.--what happened
to the other twin we do not know--was probably the first of his family of doctor-apothecaries
to deliberately abandon his less lucrative profession and establish himself as a banker in
the Mercato Nuovo. Anyhow, his two sons were born and baptised under the happy auspices of
plenty of money!

The elder, the prosperous doctor-banker, was jubilantly called Averardo--"Blessed with good
means," and the younger was christened Chiarissimo III., to mark quite sententiously that,
whilst his bank-balance was considerable, it had been accumulated by honest dealing!

True to the variable law of vicissitude, this Averardo I. failed to make any very great name
for himself, as might have been expected in a lad of so much promise. He was shadowed doubtless
by his more strenuous parent. Still, he added to the family possessions by acquiring the lay-patronage
of the churches of San Pietro a Sieve and San Bartolommeo di Petrone. Near the latter he built
a castello, or fortress, which was then considered a title to nobility. He made also a prosperous
marriage with Donna Benricevuta de' Sizi.

Messer Averardo's son, Averardo II., was, in the crisscross nature of things, a man of stronger
grit than his father. He came to great honour as well as to great riches. Elected Prior in
1304, he was chosen as Gonfaloniere di Giustizia in 1314, and, between these dates, in 1311,
Ser Teghia de' Sizi, his mother's brother, made him his heir, and gave him, besides full money-bags,
much valuable property and ecclesiastical patronage. To his surname of Medici he added that
of Sizi: he was the wealthiest citizen of his day in Florence. His wife, Donna Mandina di Filippo
de' Arrigucci of Fiesole, gave him six sons--Giacopo, Giovenco, Francesco, Salvestro, Talento,
and Conte. All of them rose to eminence in the State, but of one only can the story be told
here--Salvestro.

Messer Salvestro de' Medici--who must not be confounded with his celebrated namesake and kinsman,
the "Grand" Salvestro--married Donna Lisa de' Donati, of which union three sons were the issue--Talento,
Giovenco, and Averardo III. Salvestro di Averardo II. bore another Christian name--Chiarissimo--the
old-world cognomen of his family. Possibly his father thought it wise to stand well with the
world and parade his honesty; for whatever ill-gotten gains other bankers acquired, he, at
least, was an upright man, and his profits were just!

Anyhow, Messer Salvestro became popular for rectitude in his private life, and for his unselfish
discharge of public duties. He was chosen to fill many responsible offices of State, and reached
the goal of personal ambition as ambassador to Venice, in 1336. His youngest son, Averardo
III., acquired the sobriquet of "Bicci"--the exact meaning of which is problematical--it may
mean a "worthless fellow" or "one who lives in a castle!" Nothing indeed is related of him,
but, perhaps, like Brer Fox, of a later epoch, he was content "to lie low" and enjoy, without
much exertion, the good things his ancestors had provided for him.

Messer Averardo married twice--Giovanna de' Cavallini and Giovanna de' Spini. By the first
he became the father of one of the very greatest of the Medici--Giovanni, the parent of a still
more famous son--Cosimo.

At this period Florence was ruled by Whalter von Brienne--the so-called Duke of Athens--sagacious,
treacherous and depraved. He sought to make himself Lord of Florence by skilfully playing the
various political parties one against the other. The Grandi he kept in check by the Popolo
Minuto, but ignored the Popolo Grasso, to which the Medici belonged. Under Giovanni de' Medici,
Guglielmo degli Altoviti, and Bernardo de' Rucellai, the middle class rose against the usurper;
but their plans miscarried, and the leaders were imprisoned and fined.

A Giovanni de' Medici was beheaded in 1342--the first recorded "Tragedy of the Medici." As
to who this unfortunate man was, it is difficult to say. He is called "the son of Bernardo
de' Medici," but no such name appears in the early records of the family. He was probably a
descendant of Bonagiunto, a son of Ardingo de' Medici, who was a violent enemy of the Ghibellines,
and Gonfaloniere di Giustizia, in 1296 and 1307, and brother of Francesco, Captain of Pistoja
in 1338, and one of the principal participants in the expulsion of the hated Duke.

The first of the "Grand" Medici was Salvestro, son of Alamanno, of the line of Chiarissimo
III., called "The German," because of his alien Teutonic mother. Great-great-grandson of Ser
Filippo, the last of the doctor-apothecaries, Salvestro does not appear to have gone in for
the steady, unromantic life of a banker, but to have addressed his energies to the profession
of arms. Nevertheless, he was chosen Prior in 1318, and contributed, during peace, to the advancement
of his city's interest. Upon the outbreak of war with the Visconti of Milan, in 1351, he was
appointed commander of the Florentine forces.

His sterling grit made itself apparent in the vigour with which at the head of no more than
one hundred men he relieved the town and fortress of Scarperia, on the Mugello hills, besieged
by the invaders. For his bravery he was knighted by the Signoria. Cavaliere Salvestro de' Medici
sided with the aristocratic party, and proclaimed himself a Ghibelline--consorting with the
noble families of Albizzi, Ricci, and Strozzi. Their aim was to convert the Republic into an
oligarchy under Piero degli Albizzi.

The Popolo Minuto, thoroughly alarmed at this menace of liberty and popular government, appointed
leaders, who approached Cavaliere Salvestro, in 1370, when he held the supreme office of Gonfaloniere
di Giustizia, to safeguard the interests of the tradespeople and lower classes. He gave heed
to their representations, for he cunningly perceived that he might ride into the undisputed
leadership of the great popular party, the Guelphs, and so checkmate his other allies, the
aristocrats! As head of a powerful branch of the rising family of Medici, members of the Popolo
Grasso, or wealthy middle class, Cavaliere Salvestro became the champion of the people. All
round his popularity was established, for people said, "He was born for the safety of the Republic."
He was tactful enough to conceal the personal bent of his policy, and acted upon the maxim,
which he was never tired of repeating: "Never make a show before the people!" As Gonfaloniere
he summoned a Parliament of representatives of all parties and classes at the Palazzo Vecchio,
with a view to the composition of differences and the maintenance of public order.

The Ghibellines would have none of his proposals, but privately they were divided amongst themselves,
seeing which, the Cavaliere astutely announced the resignation of his office. This had the
effect he expected--the Palazzo and the Piazza outside rang with the old cry--"Liberta!" "Liberta!"
"Evviva il Popolo!" "Evviva il Gonfaloniere!" Salvestro de' Medici was master of the situation--the
first of his family to attain the virtual, if not the real, control of the State.

The revolution spread through the city; the palaces of the Ghibelline nobles were sacked and
burnt. A period of discord and disaster followed, but, with the firm hand of Salvestro de'
Medici upon the helm of the ship of the Republic, matters settled. In 1376 he was unanimously
chosen Capitano della Parte Guelfa--an office of still more personal influence than the Gonfaloniership.
No one questioned his authority. He was, as the historian, Michaele Bruto, has recorded, "The
first of his family to show his successors how that by conciliating the middle and lower classes
they could make their way to sovereignty."

Another crisis in the history of Florence arose in 1378, during Cavaliere Salvestro de' Medici's
second Gonfaloniership, when the Ciompi--"Wooden Shoes" they were called in derision--the wool-workers--rose
en masse, and besieged the Signoria sitting at the Palazzo Vecchio. They claimed to rule the
city and to abolish the nobles, and a second time Salvestro was "the man of the hour!"

Acting upon his advice, terms were arranged with the revolutionaries, and Michaele Lando--a
common woolcarder by trade, but a born leader of men--was elected Gonfaloniere di Giustizia,
and a new government was set up. Upon Salvestro, "the Champion of the People," was again conferred
by public acclamation the accolade of knighthood; moreover, as a further mark of popular estimation,
to him were allocated the rents of the shops upon the Ponte Vecchio and other prerogatives.

The public spirit displayed by Cavaliere Salvestro gained for him not only personal distinction
and reward, but obtained for his family recognition as the first in Florence. He married Donna
Bartolommea, the daughter of Messer Oddo degli Altoviti, by whom he had many children. None
of his sons seem to have added laurels to the family fame, but to have lived peacefully in
the glamour of their father's renown. The Cavaliere retired into private life in 1380, and
his death, which occurred in 1388, marked the establishment of Medicean domination in the affairs
of Florence.

The second of the "Grand" Medici was Giovanni, the son of Averardo III.--called "Bicci"--and
his first wife, Donna Giovanna de' Cavallini, born in 1360. He was just twenty-eight years
of age when his popular relative, Cavaliere Salvestro de' Medici, died. His young manhood found
him in the very forefront of party strife, and from the first he held unswervingly with the
Guelphs.

Married, in 1384, to Donna Piccarda, daughter of Messer Odoardo de' Bueri, he was the father
of four sons--Antonio, Damiano, Cosimo, and Lorenzo--the two former died in childhood. The
choice of names for two of the boys is significant of the value Messer Giovanni placed upon
his family's origin--Saints Damiano and Cosimo, of course, were patrons of doctors and apothecaries.
Hence he was not ashamed of the golden pillules of his armorial bearings!

Messer Giovanni developed extraordinary strength of character; he was a born ruler of men,
and a passionate patriot. He gained the goodwill of his fellow-citizens by his unselfishness
and generosity--truly not too common in the bearing of men of his time. He served the office
of Prior in 1402, 1408, 1411; he was ambassador to Naples in 1406, and to Pope Alessandro V.
in 1409; and, in 1407, he held the lucrative post of Podesta of Pistoja.

In 1421 Messer Giovanni de' Medici was elected Gonfaloniere di Giustizia, as the representative
of the middle classes, and in opposition to Messeri Rinaldo degli Albizzi and Niccolo da Uzzano,
the Ghibelline nominees. The Republic sighed for peace, the crafts for quietness; but the immense
liabilities incurred by many costly military enterprises had to be met. Messer Giovanni proposed,
in 1427, a tax which should not weigh too heavily upon anybody. Each citizen who was possessed
of a capital of one hundred gold florins, or more, was mulcted in a payment to the State of
half a gold florin (ten shillings circa). This tax, which was called "Il Catasto" was unanimously
accepted--"it pleased the common people greatly." Messer Giovanni was taxed as heavily as anyone,
namely, three hundred gold florins--indicative, incidentally, of his wealth and honesty.

Giovanni associated with himself another prominent man, Messer Agnolo de' Pandolfini, the leader
of the "Peace-at-any-Price" party, who is remembered in the annals of Florence as "The Peaceful
Citizen." The main points of their policy were:--(1) Peace abroad; (2) Prosperity at home;
(3) Low taxation.

