One August evening of the year 1743 a boat lay as if anchored in the beautiful Piscataqua;
her sail seemed swung only to show its whiteness in the bright moonlight. Every cord upon it
hung lifeless, serving only the purpose of pictured lines, one silvered in the light, the dark
shadow of the other traced in clear outlines on the sail. The swash of the waves against the
side of the boat was too slight to sway it; the sheet dipped in the water and swung almost
imperceptibly, while now and then a few straws floated against it and caught there. The moon,
high in the heavens, gave pearly tints to the clouds that floated near it; the pines on the
shore flung dark masses against the oaks and maples, or stood as a Rembrandt background for
the boughs of the trees on which the moonlight fell, or for some ghostly procession of the
white birch trunks. The water, in the shadows as dark and smooth as a Claude Lorraine glass,
showed far off in the moonlight faint quivers of its surface here and there, as if the breeze
so longed for were coming to the idle boat. But it was too far off, or too faint, for it spent
itself before reaching the watchers there, although at the symptoms one of them rose with great
show of solemnity, and making a trumpet of his hands, blew vigorously against the sail. But
neither these movements nor the concerts of whistling were successful. At last another of the
company leaning over the side of the boat busied himself with the sheet.

"I'll tell you the reason this boat don't go," he said, gravely, "the rope was all twisted.
I've straightened it out, and taken off the straws."

A burst of laughter greeted him as he turned around his face, still grave, but his dark eyes,
roving from one to another, their laughing expression hidden in the shadow, for the moon was
behind him.

"What a useful member of society you are, Stephen," cried Katie Archdale. "I don't see how
we could get on without you."

"I don't think we're getting on with him very fast," remarked a young gentleman sitting opposite
Katie, pointing significantly at a curve of the shore that they had not drifted out of sight
of in the last half hour.

"At least he has roused us," returned the girl, "for I half believe I was sleepy before."

"I believe it wholly," answered Stephen, taking his seat beside her again and looking down
into her face teazingly with a cousinly freedom. But it was not altogether a cousinly regard
from which Katie drew back after a moment, tossing her head coquettishly, and with a heightened
color, glancing past at her friend beyond him, who sat dipping one hand in the water and looking
dreamily at the shore. Stephen Archdale and his cousin Katie lived within a few miles of each
other, and there had always been constant intercourse between their families. When boy and
girl, Stephen, four years the elder, the two had played together, and they had grown up, as
people said, like brother and sister. But of late it was rumored that the conduct of young
Archdale was more loverlike than brotherly, and that, if Katie choose, the tie between them
would one day be closer than that of cousinhood. The stranger who sat opposite Archdale, watching
them both in silence, was of the same opinion. He was rather portly for his age, which could
not have been over thirty, and as he sat in the boat he looked a taller man than he proved
to be when on his feet. His dark-brown beard was full, his eyes, like Archdale's, were in shadow,
for he had drawn down his hat well over his brows, while Stephen and young Waldo sat bareheaded
in the August air.

"I wonder"--began Katie.

"A sturgeon!" cried Mrs. Eveleigh, the last member of the party.

But the sound proved the soft dip of the paddle in the water as a canoe came toward them going
down the stream. Its Indian occupant when he shot by turned his gaze stealthily upon the gay party.

"How many more of your red savages are there coming to spy upon us?" And the speaker pushed
back his hat a trifle, and looked up and down the river with an anxiety that he could not quite
conceal.

"You've not been out here long enough," laughed Waldo. "There's no danger; the red savages
are friendly with us just at this moment, and will remain so until we forget our rifles some
day, or they learn that we're short of ammunition. Shoot 'em down without mercy whenever they
come spying about--it's the only way. They're friendly so long as they are afraid, and not
a moment longer. For instance, why should that fellow stop? He saw three men whom he knew were
armed, besides that young man who's pretending to sail the boat--why don't you do it, Kit?"
and Waldo laughed good-humoredly at the lad whose office had become a sinecure. "When you get
used to them, Mr. Harwin," he added, "they will not make you shiver."

"Oh, they don't do that now," returned the other, indifferently, "but, the ladies"--

"As to the ladies," laughed Katie, "one of them is quite fond of the red-skins; the other,"
glancing at her friend, "has gone into a brown study; I don't believe she's heard or seen anything
for the last half hour. Elizabeth, when you fish up any pearls there out of the water, share
them with us, won't you?"

"No, she'll do no such thing," interposed Mistress Eveleigh; "she'll give them all to you."
The tone was so serious that Elizabeth cried, indignantly,--

"Cousin Patience, how can you?"

"I suppose she likes to tease you," retorted Katie, still laughing, "and so do I. It's so funny
to see you wake out of a revery and find yourself."

"And not find myself, you mean," returned Elizabeth, joining in with a ripple of merriment.

"Master Waldo knows all about the red-skins," said Archdale to his opposite neighbor; "he had
the pleasure of shooting one last winter."

"Did you?" exclaimed Mrs. Eveleigh, while Harwin looked at the young fellow with a new interest.
"How did it happen? Tell us about it."

"Yes, tell us about it," cried Katie, turning toward Waldo. But Elizabeth was still looking
at Archdale. Suppose the shooting had been necessary, how could he speak of killing a human
being as he would an animal, and then lean back and look at Mr. Waldo with a smile on his face?

Kenelm Waldo, on his part, gazed at the speaker in astonishment.

"'Pon honor," he cried, "I never killed a red-skin in my life, or even had a shot at one. Oh,
I know now what he means; he is talking of a fox that I shot two miles from his house, one
that you ought to have secured yourself, Mr. Archdale. This was the way I did it, the best way."

When he had finished his account, Katie said:--

"I have a plan for amusing ourselves. Let us make every one tell a story, and we'll lay forfeits
on the person that doesn't give us an interesting one. Mistress Eveleigh, please begin."

"That is rather arbitrary, Mistress Katie, with no warning," returned that lady, smiling. "But
since we've been talking about the Indians, I will tell you something that my mother did once
before she was married, while she was living down on the Cape."

"What a pity, Katie, you did not keep Mistress Eveleigh until the last," cried Archdale; "I
know she will have the best story of us all."

"You have too high estimation of my powers," returned Mrs. Eveleigh, flattered; "but if I do
well," she added, "it must be remembered that none of you have had forty-five years in which
to find one."

The story, like a thousand others of that time, was of the presence of mind and courage of
one of the early settlers of America, and was listened to with the attention it deserved. All,
with one exception, were outspoken in admiration of its heroine.

"You say nothing, Mistress Royal," said Waldo; "but it may be you've heard it before, since
you and Mistress Eveleigh are in the same house."

"Yes," she answered, "I have heard it before." She moved her head quickly as she spoke, and
as the moonlight struck her face, Archdale fancied that he saw a moist brightness in her eyes.
But certainly no tear fell, and when the next moment Katie declared it Elizabeth's turn for
a story, she told some trifling anecdote that had in it neither sentiment nor heroism. It was
laughable though, and was about to receive its deserts of praise when at Archdale's first word
Elizabeth cried, eagerly:--

"Don't, please. It was not worth telling; only I could remember nothing else."

At this entreaty Harwin stared at her, and his lip curled disdainfully under the hand that
partially covered his face. "Have you so much wealth of fascination, young lady," his thoughts
ran, "that you can afford to scatter your coins in this way? I rather think not." His eyes
rested upon her for a moment as she sat looking at Katie Archdale, and the scorn of his mouth
deepened. "Admiration of one woman for another," he commented. "Pshaw! the girl lavishes everything;
she will soon be bankrupt. She is drinking in the intoxication of Katie's beauty just as--no,
not like me, of course. If ever there could be excuse for such a thing it would be here, for
Katie is bewitching, she is perfect; affectionate, too, but with no nonsense about her. She
reserves her admiration for--for whom does she reserve it? For the proud young nabob beside
her, or for the good-humored little coxcomb over here? It shall be for neither; it shall be
for me. I, too, can be fascinating when I take the trouble. Fair lady, I have plans for you."

"Master Harwin," cried the girl's clear voice, interrupting his thoughts, "why don't you begin?
We're waiting for you."

"Pardon me," he answered, "I was not aware of it. Well, since you are inexorable, I'll try.
I will not attempt anything in this New World, which you all know so much more about than I
do, for then there'd be every chance of my being heavily fined. But if you want a story of
Old England, perhaps on that ground I can barely escape my forfeit."

"We shall be delighted," said Miss Royal, courteously, for Katie, to whom she saw that he was
speaking, was at the moment claimed by Archdale; he was saying something to her in a low voice,
and she gave him willing attention.

Only a flash in the narrator's eyes as he began showed that he noticed this.

CHAPTER II.

OPPORTUNITY.

"Once upon a time, then," he said, "in Scotland, no matter in what part, there dwelt two disconsolate
people. They ought to have been very happy, for they were lovers, but, as you may have noticed,
lovers are happy only under the condition that love runs smooth, and here it was extremely
rough. The suitor was of ancient family and poor, the lady was charming, and wilful--and an
heiress? You are all waiting to hear me say that--no, she was poor, too. And so you see that
a doubling of impecuniosity was quite impossible, for poverty rolls up fast in a geometrical
progression. But the lovers had no such scruples. It's a romantic story enough if I could tell
it to you in detail."

"And why not?" cried Katie, whose interest was making him wish that were possible.

"I should have to go back for generations, and tell you of family feuds as old as the families
themselves, a Montague and Capulet state of affairs, although each family had so much respect
for the golden amenities of life that its possession by the other would have softened the asperity
of feeling. But each was poor,--poor, I mean, for people in that station.

