In town the mosquitoes are plentiful and lively, devoting their attentions chiefly to new-comers,
but up here--I write as though we were five thousand feet instead of only fifty above Maritzburg--it
is rare to see one. I think "fillies" are more in our line, and that in spite of every floor
in the house being scrubbed daily with strong soda and water. "Fillies," you must know, is
our black groom's (Charlie's) way of pronouncing fleas, and I find it ever so much prettier.
Charlie and I are having a daily discussion just now touching sundry moneys he expended during
my week's absence at D'Urban for the kittens' food. Charlie calls them the "lil' catties,"
and declares that the two small animals consumed three shillings and ninepence worth of meat
in a week. I laughingly say, "But, Charlie, that would be nearly nine pounds of meat in six
days, and they couldn't eat that, you know." Charlie grins and shows all his beautiful even
white teeth: then he bashfully turns his head aside and says, "I doan know, ma': I buy six'
meat dree time." "Very well, Charlie, that would be one shilling and sixpence." "I doan know,
ma';" and we've not got any further than that yet.

But G---- and I are picking up many words of Kafir, and it is quite mortifying to see how much
more easily the little monkey learns than I do. I forget my phrases or confuse them, whereas
when he learns two or three sentences he appears to remember them always. It is a very melodious
and beautiful language, and, except for the clicks, not very difficult to learn. Almost everybody
here speaks it a little, and it is the first thing necessary for a new-comer to endeavor to
acquire; only, unfortunately, there are no teachers, as in India, and consequently you pick
up a wretched, debased kind of patois, interlarded with Dutch phrases. Indeed, I am assured
there are two words, el hashi ("the horse"), of unmistakable Moorish origin, though no one
knows how they got into the language. Many of the Kafirs about town speak a little English,
and they are exceedingly sharp, when they choose, about understanding what is meant, even if
they do not quite catch the meaning of the words used. There is one genius of my acquaintance,
called "Sixpence," who is not only a capital cook, but an accomplished English scholar, having
spent some months in England. Generally, to Cape Town and back is the extent of their journeyings,
for they are a home-loving people; but Sixpence went to England with his master, and brought
back a shivering recollection of an English winter and a deep-rooted amazement at the boys
of the Shoe Brigade, who wanted to clean his boots. That astonished him more than anything
else, he says.

The Kafirs are very fond of attending their own schools and church services, of which there
are several in the town; and I find one of my greatest difficulties in living out here consists
in getting Kafirs to come out of town, for by doing so they miss their regular attendance at
chapel and school. A few Sundays ago I went to one of these Kafir schools, and was much struck
by the intently-absorbed air of the pupils, almost all of whom were youths about twenty years
of age. They were learning to read the Bible in Kafir during my visit, sitting in couples,
and helping each other on with immense diligence and earnestness. No looking about, no wandering,
inattentive glances, did I see. I might as well have "had the receipt of fern-seed and walked
invisible" for all the attention I excited. Presently the pupil-teacher, a young black man,
who had charge of this class, asked me if I would like to hear them sing a hymn, and on my
assenting he read out a verse of "Hold the Fort," and they all stood up and sang it, or rather
its Kafir translation, lustily and with good courage, though without much tune. The chorus
was especially fine, the words "Inkanye kanye" ringing through the room with great fervor.
This is not a literal translation of the words "Hold the Fort," but it is difficult, as the
teacher explained to me, for the translator to avail himself of the usual word for "hold,"
as it conveys more the idea of "take hold," "seize," and the young Kafir missionary thoroughly
understood all the nicety of the idiom. There was another class for women and children, but
it was a small one. Certainly, the young men seemed much in earnest, and the rapt expression
of their faces was most striking, especially during the short prayer which followed the hymn
and ended the school for the afternoon.

I have had constantly impressed upon my mind since my arrival the advice not to take Christian
Kafirs into my service, but I am at a loss to know in what way the prejudice against them can
have arisen. "Take a Kafir green from his kraal if you wish to have a good servant," is what
every one tells me. It so happens that we have two of each--two Christians and two heathens--about
the place, and there is no doubt whatever which is the best. Indeed, I have sometimes conversations
with the one who speaks English, and I can assure you we might all learn from him with advantage.
His simple creed is just what came from the Saviour's lips two thousand years ago, and comprises
His teaching of the whole duty of man--to love God, the great "En' Kos," and his neighbor as
himself. He speaks always with real delight of his privileges, and is very anxious to go to
Cape Town to attend some school there of which he talks a great deal, and where he says he
should learn to read the Bible in English. At present he is spelling it out with great difficulty
in Kafir. This man often talks to me in the most respectful and civil manner imaginable about
the customs of his tribe, and he constantly alludes to the narrow escape he had of being murdered
directly after his birth for the crime of being a twin. His people have a fixed belief that
unless one of a pair of babies be killed at once, either the father or mother will die within
the year; and they argue that as in any case one child will be sure to die in its infancy,
twins being proverbially difficult to rear, it is only both kind and natural to kill the weakly
one at once. This young man is very small and quiet and gentle, with an ugly face, but a sweet,
intelligent expression and a very nice manner. I find him and the other Christian in our employment
very trustworthy and reliable. If they tell me anything which has occurred, I know I can believe
their version of it, and they are absolutely honest. Now, the other lads have very loose ideas
on the subject of sugar, and make shifty excuses for everything, from the cat breaking a heavy
stone filter up to half the marketing being dropped on the road.

I don't think I have made it sufficiently clear that besides the Sunday-schools and services
I have mentioned there are night-schools every evening in the week, which are fully attended
by Kafir servants, and where they are first taught to read their own language, which is an
enormous difficulty to them. They always tell me it is so much easier to learn to read English
than Kafir; and if one studies the two languages, it is plain to see how much simpler the new
tongue must appear to a learner than the intricate construction, the varying patois and the
necessarily phonetic spelling of a language compounded of so many dialects as the Zulu-Kafir.

FEBRUARY 12.

In some respects I consider this climate has been rather over-praised. Of course it is a great
deal--a very great deal--better than our English one, but that, after all, is not saying much
in its praise. Then we must remember that in England we have the fear and dread of the climate
ever before our eyes, and consequently are always, so to speak, on our guard against it. Here,
and in other places where civilization is in its infancy, we are at the mercy of dust and sun,
wind and rain, and all the eccentric elements which go to make up weather. Consequently, when
the balance of comfort and convenience has to be struck, it is surprising how small an advantage
a really better climate gives when you take away watering-carts and shady streets for hot weather,
and sheltered railway-stations and hansom cabs for wet weather, and roads and servants and
civility and general convenience everywhere. This particular climate is both depressing and
trying in spite of the sunny skies we are ever boasting about, because it has a strong tinge
of the tropical element in it; and yet people live in much the same kind of houses (only that
they are very small), and wear much the same sort of clothes (only that they are very ugly),
and lead much the same sort of lives (only that it is a thousand times duller than the dullest
country village), as they do in England. Some small concession is made to the thermometer in
the matter of puggeries and matted floors, but even then carpets are used wherever it is practicable,
because this matting never looks clean and nice after the first week it is put down. All the
houses are built on the ground floor, with the utmost economy of building material and labor,
and consequently there are no passages: every room is, in fact, a passage and leads to its
neighbor. So the perpetually dirty bare feet, or, still worse, boots fresh from the mud or
dust of the streets, soon wear out the matting. Few houses are at all prettily decorated or
furnished, partly from the difficulty of procuring anything pretty here, the cost and risk
of its carriage up from D'Urban if you send to England for it, and partly from the want of
servants accustomed to anything but the roughest and coarsest articles of household use. A
lady soon begins to take her drawing-room ornaments en guignon if she has to dust them herself
every day in a very dusty climate. I speak feelingly and with authority, for that is my case
at this moment, and applies to every other part of the house as well.

I must say I like Kafir servants in some respects. They require, I acknowledge, constant supervision;
they require to be told to do the same thing over and over again every day; and, what is more,
besides telling, you have to stand by and see that they do the thing. They are also very slow.
But still, with all these disadvantages, they are far better than the generality of European
servants out here, who make their luckless employers' lives a burden to them by reason of their
tempers and caprices. It is much better, I am convinced, to face the evil boldly and to make
up one's mind to have none but Kafir servants. Of course one immediately turns into a sort
of overseer and upper servant one's self; but at all events you feel master or mistress of
your own house, and you have faithful and good-tempered domestics, who do their best, however
awkwardly, to please you. Where there are children, then indeed a good English nurse is a great
boon; and in this one respect I am fortunate. Kafirs are also much easier to manage when the
orders come direct from the master or mistress, and they work far more willingly for them than
for white servants. Tom, the nurse-boy, confided to me yesterday that he hoped to stop in my
employment for forty moons. After that space of time he considered that he should be in a position
to buy plenty of wives, who would work for him and support him for the rest of his life. But
how Tom or Jack, or any of the boys in fact, are to save money I know not, for every shilling
of their wages, except a small margin for coarse snuff, goes to their parents, who fleece them
without mercy. If they are fined for breakages or misconduct (the only punishment a Kafir cares
for), they have to account for the deficient money to the stern parents; and both Tom and Jack
went through a most graphic pantomime with a stick of the consequences to themselves, adding
that their father said both the beating from him and the fine from us served them right for
their carelessness. It seemed so hard they should suffer both ways, and they were so good-tempered
and uncomplaining about it, that I fear I shall find it very difficult to stop any threepenny
pieces out of their wages in future. A Kafir servant usually gets one pound a month, his clothes
and food. The former consists of a shirt and short trousers of coarse check cotton, a soldier's
old great-coat for winter, and plenty of mealy-meal for "scoff." If he is a good servant and
worth making comfortable, you give him a trifle every week to buy meat. Kafirs are very fond
of going to their kraals, and you have to make them sign an agreement to remain with you so
many months, generally six. By the time you have just taught them, with infinite pains and
trouble, how to do their work, they depart, and you have to begin it all over again.

I frequently see the chiefs or indunas of chiefs passing here on their way to some kraals which
lie just over the hills. These kraals consist of half a dozen or more large huts, exactly like
so many huge beehives, on the slope of a hill. There is a rude attempt at sod-fencing round
them; a few head of cattle graze in the neighborhood; lower down, the hillside is roughly scratched
by the women with crooked hoes to form a mealy-ground. (Cows and mealies are all they require
except snuff or tobacco, which they smoke out of a cow's horn.) They seem a very gay and cheerful
people, to judge by the laughter and jests I hear from the groups returning to these kraals
every day by the road just outside our fence. Sometimes one of the party carries an umbrella;
and I assure you the effect of a tall, stalwart Kafir, clad either in nothing at all or else
in a sack, carefully guarding his bare head with a tattered Gamp, is very ridiculous. Often
some one walks along playing upon a rude pipe, whilst the others jog before and after him,
laughing and capering like boys let loose from school, and all chattering loudly. You never
meet a man carrying a burden unless he is a white settler's servant. When a chief or the induna
of a kraal passes this way, I see him, clad in a motley garb of red regimentals with his bare
"ringed" head, riding a sorry nag, only the point of his great toe resting in his stirrup.
He is followed closely and with great empressement by his "tail," all "ringed" men also--that
is, men of some substance and weight in the community. They carry bundles of sticks, and keep
up with the ambling nag, and are closely followed by some of his wives bearing heavy loads
on their heads, but stepping out bravely with beautiful erect carriage, shapely bare arms and
legs; and some sort of coarse drapery worn across their bodies, covering them from shoulder
to knee in folds which would delight an artist's eye and be the despair of a sculptor's chisel.
They don't look either oppressed or discontented. Happy, healthy and jolly are the words by
which they would be most truthfully described. Still, they are lazy, and slow to appreciate
any benefit from civilization except the money, but then savages always seem to me as keen
and sordid about money as the most civilized mercantile community anywhere.

FEBRUARY 14.

