[5] It might be worse. If the biggest horses had been Shetland ponies, we should be travelling
now in railway carriages to hold two each side at a maximum speed of perhaps twenty miles an
hour. There is hardly any reason, beyond this tradition of the horse, why the railway carriage
should not be even nine or ten feet wide, the width, that is, of the smallest room in which
people can live in comfort, hung on such springs and wheels as would effectually destroy all
vibration, and furnished with all the equipment of comfortable chambers.

[6] Explosives as a motive power were first attempted by Huyghens and one or two others in
the seventeenth century, and, just as with the turbine type of apparatus, it was probably the
impetus given to the development of steam by the convenient collocation of coal and water and
the need of an engine, that arrested the advance of this parallel inquiry until our own time.
Explosive engines, in which gas and petroleum are employed, are now abundant, but for all that
we can regard the explosive engine as still in its experimental stages. So far, research in
explosives has been directed chiefly to the possibilities of higher and still higher explosives
for use in war, the neglect of the mechanical application of this class of substance being
largely due to the fact, that chemists are not as a rule engineers, nor engineers chemists.
But an easily portable substance, the decomposition of which would evolve energy, or--what
is, from the practical point of view, much the same thing--an easily portable substance, which
could be decomposed electrically by wind or water power, and which would then recombine and
supply force, either in intermittent thrusts at a piston, or as an electric current, would
be infinitely more convenient for all locomotive purposes than the cumbersome bunkers and boilers
required by steam. The presumption is altogether in favour of the possibility of such substances.
Their advent will be the beginning of the end for steam traction on land and of the steam ship
at sea: the end indeed of the Age of Coal and Steam. And even with regard to steam there may
be a curious change of method before the end. It is beginning to appear that, after all, the
piston and cylinder type of engine is, for locomotive purposes--on water at least, if not on
land--by no means the most perfect. Another, and fundamentally different type, the turbine
type, in which the impulse of the steam spins a wheel instead of shoving a piston, would appear
to be altogether better than the adapted pumping engine, at any rate, for the purposes of steam
navigation. Hero, of Alexandria, describes an elementary form of such an engine, and the early
experimenters of the seventeenth century tried and abandoned the rotary principle. It was not
adapted to pumping, and pumping was the only application that then offered sufficient immediate
encouragement to persistence. The thing marked time for quite two centuries and a half, therefore,
while the piston engines perfected themselves; and only in the eighties did the requirements
of the dynamo-electric machine open a "practicable" way of advance. The motors of the dynamo-electric
machine in the nineteenth century, in fact, played exactly the rôle of the pumping engine in
the eighteenth, and by 1894 so many difficulties of detail had been settled, that a syndicate
of capitalists and scientific men could face the construction of an experimental ship. This
ship, the Turbinia, after a considerable amount of trial and modification, attained the unprecedented
speed of 34½ knots an hour, and His Majesty's navy has possessed, in the Turbinia's younger
and greater sister, the Viper, now unhappily lost, a torpedo-destroyer capable of 41 miles
an hour. There can be little doubt that the sea speeds of 50 and even 60 miles an hour will
be attained within the next few years. But I do not think that these developments will do more
than delay the advent of the "explosive" or "storage of force" engine.

[7] The historian of the future, writing about the nineteenth century, will, I sometimes fancy,
find a new meaning in a familiar phrase. It is the custom to call this the most "Democratic"
age the world has ever seen, and most of us are beguiled by the etymological contrast, and
the memory of certain legislative revolutions, to oppose one form of stupidity prevailing to
another, and to fancy we mean the opposite to an "Aristocratic" period. But indeed we do not.
So far as that political point goes, the Chinaman has always been infinitely more democratic
than the European. But the world, by a series of gradations into error, has come to use "Democratic"
as a substitute for "Wholesale," and as an opposite to "Individual," without realizing the
shifted application at all. Thereby old "Aristocracy," the organization of society for the
glory and preservation of the Select Dull, gets to a flavour even of freedom. When the historian
of the future speaks of the past century as a Democratic century, he will have in mind, more
than anything else, the unprecedented fact that we seemed to do everything in heaps--we read
in epidemics; clothed ourselves, all over the world, in identical fashions; built and furnished
our houses in stereo designs; and travelled--that naturally most individual proceeding--in
bales. To make the railway train a perfect symbol of our times, it should be presented as uncomfortably
full in the third class--a few passengers standing--and everybody reading the current number
either of the Daily Mail, Pearson's Weekly, Answers, Tit Bits, or whatever Greatest Novel of
the Century happened to be going.... But, as I hope to make clearer in my later papers, this
"Democracy," or Wholesale method of living, like the railways, is transient--a first makeshift
development of a great and finally (to me at least) quite hopeful social reorganization.

[8] So we begin to see the possibility of laying that phantom horse that haunts the railways
to this day so disastrously.

[9] A correspondent, Mr. Rudolf Cyrian, writes to correct me here, and I cannot do better,
I think, than thank him and quote what he says. "It is hardly right to state that fifty miles
an hour 'is the limit of our speed for land travel, so far as existing conditions go.' As far
as English traffic is concerned, the statement is approximately correct. In the United States,
however, there are several trains running now which average over considerable distances more
than sixty miles an hour, stoppages included, nor is there much reason why this should not
be considerably increased. What especially hampers the development of railways in England--as
compared with other countries--is the fact that the rolling-stock templet is too small. Hence
carriages in England have to be narrower and lower than carriages in the United States, although
both run on the same standard gauge (4 feet 8½ inches). For instance, on the present Empire
State Express, running between New York and Buffalo, or on the present Pennsylvania, Limited,
running between New York and Chicago, and on others. With the Pennsylvania, Limited, travel
stenographers and typewriters, whose services are placed at the disposal of passengers free
of charge. But the train on which there is the least vibration of any is probably the new Empire
State Express, and on this it is certainly possible to write smoothly and easily at a steady
table."

[10] Since this appeared in the Fortnightly Review I have had the pleasure of reading 'Twentieth
Century Inventions,' by Mr. George Sutherland, and I find very much else of interest bearing
on these questions--the happy suggestion (for the ferry transits, at any rate) of a rail along
the sea bottom, which would serve as a guide to swift submarine vessels, out of reach of all
that superficial "motion" that is so distressing, and of all possibilities of collision.

[11] To the level of such upper story pavements as Sir F. Bramwell has proposed for the new
Holborn to Strand Street, for example.

[12] I have said nothing in this chapter, devoted to locomotion, of the coming invention of
flying. This is from no disbelief in its final practicability, nor from any disregard of the
new influences it will bring to bear upon mankind. But I do not think it at all probable that
aeronautics will ever come into play as a serious modification of transport and communication--the
main question here under consideration. Man is not, for example, an albatross, but a land biped,
with a considerable disposition towards being made sick and giddy by unusual motions, and however
he soars he must come to earth to live. We must build our picture of the future from the ground
upward; of flying--in its place.

II

THE PROBABLE DIFFUSION OF GREAT CITIES

Now, the velocity at which a man and his belongings may pass about the earth is in itself a
very trivial matter indeed, but it involves certain other matters not at all trivial, standing,
indeed, in an almost fundamental relation to human society. It will be the business of this
chapter to discuss the relation between the social order and the available means of transit,
and to attempt to deduce from the principles elucidated the coming phases in that extraordinary
expansion, shifting and internal redistribution of population that has been so conspicuous
during the last hundred years.

Let us consider the broad features of the redistribution of the population that has characterized
the nineteenth century. It may be summarized as an unusual growth of great cities and a slight
tendency to depopulation in the country. The growth of the great cities is the essential phenomenon.
These aggregates having populations of from eight hundred thousand upward to four and five
millions, are certainly, so far as the world outside the limits of the Chinese empire goes,
entirely an unprecedented thing. Never before, outside the valleys of the three great Chinese
rivers, has any city--with the exception of Rome and perhaps (but very doubtfully) of Babylon--certainly
had more than a million inhabitants, and it is at least permissible to doubt whether the population
of Rome, in spite of its exacting a tribute of sea-borne food from the whole of the Mediterranean
basin, exceeded a million for any great length of time.[13] But there are now ten town aggregates
having a population of over a million, nearly twenty that bid fair to reach that limit in the
next decade, and a great number at or approaching a quarter of a million. We call these towns
and cities, but, indeed, they are of a different order of things to the towns and cities of
the eighteenth-century world.

Concurrently with the aggregation of people about this new sort of centre, there has been,
it is alleged, a depletion of the country villages and small townships. But, so far as the
counting of heads goes, this depletion is not nearly so marked as the growth of the great towns.
Relatively, however, it is striking enough.

Now, is this growth of large towns really, as one may allege, a result of the development of
railways in the world, or is it simply a change in human circumstances that happens to have
arisen at the same time? It needs only a very general review of the conditions of the distribution
of population to realize that the former is probably the true answer.

It will be convenient to make the issue part of a more general proposition, namely, that the
general distribution of population in a country must always be directly dependent on transport
facilities. To illustrate this point roughly we may build up an imaginary simple community
by considering its needs. Over an arable country-side, for example, inhabited by a people who
had attained to a level of agricultural civilization in which war was no longer constantly
imminent, the population would be diffused primarily by families and groups in farmsteads.
It might, if it were a very simple population, be almost all so distributed. But even the simplest
agriculturists find a certain convenience in trade. Certain definite points would be convenient
for such local trade and intercourse as the people found desirable, and here it is that there
would arise the germ of a town. At first it might be no more than an appointed meeting place,
a market square, but an inn and a blacksmith would inevitably follow, an altar, perhaps, and,
if these people had writing, even some sort of school. It would have to be where water was
found, and it would have to be generally convenient of access to its attendant farmers.

Now, if this meeting place was more than a certain distance from any particular farm, it would
be inconvenient for that farmer to get himself and his produce there and back, and to do his
business in a comfortable daylight. He would not be able to come and, instead, he would either
have to go to some other nearer centre to trade and gossip with his neighbours or, failing
this, not go at all. Evidently, then, there would be a maximum distance between such places.
This distance in England, where traffic has been mainly horse traffic for many centuries, seems
to have worked out, according to the gradients and so forth, at from eight to fifteen miles,
and at such distances do we find the country towns, while the horseless man, the serf, and
the labourer and labouring wench have marked their narrow limits in the distribution of the
intervening villages. If by chance these gathering places have arisen at points much closer
than this maximum, they have come into competition, and one has finally got the better of the
other, so that in England the distribution is often singularly uniform. Agricultural districts
have their towns at about eight miles, and where grazing takes the place of the plough, the
town distances increase to fifteen.[14] And so it is, entirely as a multiple of horse and foot
strides, that all the villages and towns of the world's country-side have been plotted out.[15]

A third, and almost final, factor determining town distribution in a world without railways,
would be the seaport and the navigable river. Ports would grow into dimensions dependent on
the population of the conveniently accessible coasts (or river-banks), and on the quality and
quantity of their products, and near these ports, as the conveniences of civilization increased,
would appear handicraft towns--the largest possible towns of a foot-and-horse civilization--with
industries of such a nature as the produce of their coasts required.

It was always in connection with a port or navigable river that the greater towns of the pre-railway
periods arose, a day's journey away from the coast when sea attack was probable, and shifting
to the coast itself when that ceased to threaten. Such sea-trading handicraft towns as Bruges,
Venice, Corinth, or London were the largest towns of the vanishing order of things. Very rarely,
except in China, did they clamber above a quarter of a million inhabitants, even though to
some of them there was presently added court and camp. In China, however, a gigantic river
and canal system, laced across plains of extraordinary fertility, has permitted the growth
of several city aggregates with populations exceeding a million, and in the case of the Hankow
trinity of cities exceeding five million people.

In all these cases the position and the population limit was entirely determined by the accessibility
of the town and the area it could dominate for the purposes of trade. And not only were the
commercial or natural towns so determined, but the political centres were also finally chosen
for strategic considerations, in a word--communications. And now, perhaps, the real significance
of the previous paper, in which sea velocities of fifty miles an hour, and land travel at the
rate of a hundred, and even cab and omnibus journeys of thirty or forty miles, were shown to
be possible, becomes more apparent.

At the first sight it might appear as though the result of the new developments was simply
to increase the number of giant cities in the world by rendering them possible in regions where
they had hitherto been impossible--concentrating the trade of vast areas in a manner that had
hitherto been entirely characteristic of navigable waters. It might seem as though the state
of affairs in China, in which population has been concentrated about densely-congested "million-cities,"
with pauper masses, public charities, and a crowded struggle for existence, for many hundreds
of years, was merely to be extended over the whole world. We have heard so much of the "problem
of our great cities"; we have the impressive statistics of their growth; the belief in the
inevitableness of yet denser and more multitudinous agglomerations in the future is so widely
diffused, that at first sight it will be thought that no other motive than a wish to startle
can dictate the proposition that not only will many of these railway-begotten "giant cities"
reach their maximum in the commencing century, but that in all probability they, and not only
they, but their water-born prototypes in the East also, are destined to such a process of dissection
and diffusion as to amount almost to obliteration, so far, at least, as the blot on the map
goes, within a measurable further space of years.

In advancing this proposition, the present writer is disagreeably aware that in this matter
he has expressed views entirely opposed to those he now propounds; and in setting forth the
following body of considerations he tells the story of his own disillusionment. At the outset
he took for granted--and, very naturally, he wishes to imagine that a great number of other
people do also take for granted--that the future of London, for example, is largely to be got
as the answer to a sort of rule-of-three sum. If in one hundred years the population of London
has been multiplied by seven, then in two hundred years--! And one proceeds to pack the answer
in gigantic tenement houses, looming upon colossal roofed streets, provide it with moving ways
(the only available transit appliances suited to such dense multitudes), and develop its manners
and morals in accordance with the laws that will always prevail amidst over-crowded humanity
so long as humanity endures. The picture of this swarming concentrated humanity has some effective
possibilities, but, unhappily, if, instead of that obvious rule-of-three sum, one resorts to
an analysis of operating causes, its plausibility crumbles away, and it gives place to an altogether
different forecast--a forecast, indeed, that is in almost violent contrast to the first anticipation.
It is much more probable that these coming cities will not be, in the old sense, cities at
all; they will present a new and entirely different phase of human distribution.

The determining factor in the appearance of great cities in the past, and, indeed, up to the
present day, has been the meeting of two or more transit lines, the confluence of two or more
streams of trade, and easy communication. The final limit to the size and importance of the
great city has been the commercial "sphere of influence" commanded by that city, the capacity
of the alluvial basin of its commerce, so to speak, the volume of its river of trade. About
the meeting point so determined the population so determined has grouped itself--and this is
the point I overlooked in those previous vaticinations--in accordance with laws that are also
considerations of transit.

The economic centre of the city is formed, of course, by the wharves and landing places--and
in the case of railway-fed cities by the termini--where passengers land and where goods are
landed, stored, and distributed. Both the administrative and business community, traders, employers,
clerks, and so forth, must be within a convenient access of this centre; and the families,
servants, tradesmen, amusement purveyors dependent on these again must also come within a maximum
distance. At a certain stage in town growth the pressure on the more central area would become
too great for habitual family life there, and an office region would differentiate from an
outer region of homes. Beyond these two zones, again, those whose connection with the great
city was merely intermittent would constitute a system of suburban houses and areas. But the
grouping of these, also, would be determined finally by the convenience of access to the dominant
centre. That secondary centres, literary, social, political, or military, may arise about the
initial trade centre, complicates the application but does not alter the principle here stated.
They must all be within striking distance. The day of twenty-four hours is an inexorable human
condition, and up to the present time all intercourse and business has been broken into spells
of definite duration by intervening nights. Moreover, almost all effective intercourse has
involved personal presence at the point where intercourse occurs. The possibility, therefore,
of going and coming and doing that day's work has hitherto fixed the extreme limits to which
a city could grow, and has exacted a compactness which has always been very undesirable and
which is now for the first time in the world's history no longer imperative.

So far as we can judge without a close and uncongenial scrutiny of statistics, that daily journey,
that has governed and still to a very considerable extent governs the growth of cities, has
had, and probably always will have, a maximum limit of two hours, one hour each way from sleeping
place to council chamber, counter, workroom, or office stool. And taking this assumption as
sound, we can state precisely the maximum area of various types of town. A pedestrian agglomeration
such as we find in China, and such as most of the European towns probably were before the nineteenth
century, would be swept entirely by a radius of four miles about the business quarter and industrial
centre; and, under these circumstances, where the area of the feeding regions has been very
large the massing of human beings has probably reached its extreme limit.[16] Of course, in
the case of a navigable river, for example, the commercial centre might be elongated into a
line and the circle of the city modified into an ellipse with a long diameter considerably
exceeding eight miles, as, for example, in the case of Hankow.

If, now, horseflesh is brought into the problem, an outer radius of six or eight miles from
the centre will define a larger area in which the carriage folk, the hackney users, the omnibus
customers, and their domestics and domestic camp followers may live and still be members of
the city. Towards that limit London was already probably moving at the accession of Queen Victoria,
and it was clearly the absolute limit of urban growth--until locomotive mechanisms capable
of more than eight miles an hour could be constructed.

