The first person to discover that ANN BRUMMET had left the house, was Mrs. LADLE, Now, ever
since the Hon. MICHAEL had asked ANN to go to the circus, Mrs. LADLE had hated her. But when
he took ANN to the Agricultural Fair, and bought her a tin-type album and a box of initial
note-paper, Mrs. LADLE was simply raving. Whether she herself was viewing the Hon. MICHAEL
with an eye matrimonial, and was jealous of ANN, must remain an open question. At any rate,
she was the first to start the scandal about ANN and JEFFRY, and lost no time in conveying
it to the ears of the Hon. MICHAEL, with profuse embellishments. At the croquet party the Hon.
MICHAEL had been particularly sweet on ANN, his ardor finding vent in such demonstrations as
throwing kisses at her slyly, holding up printed lozenges for her inspection, or tossing sticks
at her and dodging behind a tree. And when Mrs. LADLE went to ANN'S room next day, for a good
square scold, she found her out.

Now Mrs. LADLE was a mother-in-law, and consequently a pretty old fowl in ferreting out things
of this sort. She determined to discover the why and wherefore of ANN'S departure. If she could
confront the Hon. MICHAEL with proofs of ANN'S indiscretion, it would be the loudest kind of
feather in her cap.

She examined everybody in the house, and everybody that went by the house, but without the
smallest result. She was out in the front yard waiting for a fresh victim, when she saw HERSEY
DEATHBURY coming up the road. She signed to her to come in.

She came in.

HERSEY DEATHBURY was an extraordinary woman. A woman of genius, sir. What if her make-up was
limited? What if, when she was born, nature was economizing, and gave her only one eye, and
she was lame and hump-backed, and hadn't got any eyebrows and wore a wig; what of that? It's
to her credit, I say. You saw her just as she was. No airs there. And in this lay the great
charm of H. DEATHBURY'S character. Looking at her closely, you would see a fixed and stony
eye and a chronic scowl, and you would say: "Disposition a little morose; some man has soured
on her." Looking at her more closely, you would see under her right arm a common blackboard,
such as is used in schools, and over her shoulder a canvas bag containing lumps of chalk, and
you would say: "A little eccentric; likes to write on the blackboard instead of talking. Would
make a nice wife. Looks, on the whole, like a country schoolma'am, whom the boys have stoned
out of town, with the fixtures of the school-house tied to her." But she has talents. What
is she, an authoress? "Yes, she is." But, like other authoresses, she isn't appreciated, and
has returned to her legitimate occupation, the Wash-Tub; but still doth she itch for fame,
and so, between times, she writes verbose essays on Female Suffrage, composed during the process
known as "wringing." And when there's a Woman's Rights Convention in that locality, she sits
on the platform, and applauds all the Red-Hot Resolutions with that trenchant female weapon,
the umbrella, in one hand, and an antediluvian reticule the other. In the words of the Hon.
MICHAEL: "She is not only a leading Reformer, sir, but a great Platformer." And Mrs. LADLE
will tell you that, as a washer, she is superb. She "does up things" in a manner simply celestial.

Mrs. LADLE told her first to shut the door.

"Have you seen ANN BRUMMET to-day?" she said.

HERSEY nodded.

"Where?" was the eager inquiry.

HERSEY DEATHBURY placed her blackboard against the wall, unslung her chalk, and wrote in very
large letters:--

"I C hur a-Goin on The rode 2 forneys Kragg."

"Ah!" ejaculated Mrs. LADLE joyfully, "traced at last." And she ran to tell the Hon. MICHAEL
all about it.

       *       *       *

The Half-Way House at Forney's Crag was a hoary-headed old vagabond of a house, that had passed
the heyday of its youth long before that great encyclopaedia, the oldest inhabitant, emitted
his first infantile squawk. Each successive season caused it to lean a little more and the
most casual observer must perceive that it couldn't by any possibility become much leaner without
pining entirely away.

Nevertheless, it had been the only hotel that Spunkville could boast, all within a short period
of this writing. Like most Western hotels, it had been ably supported by a large floating population,
known as "New York Drummers," and many a time had its old walls re-echoed with their guileless
hilarity and moral tales; and, if the ancient and time-honored spittoon in the bar-room could
speak, it could relate wonderful stories concerning the Sample Gentry; relating, perhaps, to
a Spunkville merchant, who, having retreated precipitately down his cellar stairs several tunes
during the day, to avoid "them confounded drummers, with their everlasting samples," was, while
plodding his lonely way homeward, seized upon by these commercial freebooters, conveyed forthwith
to the Half-Way House, and there deluged with such a perfect torrent of brow-beating eloquence
as to reduce him to an imbecile state, in which condition he would willingly order large bills
of goods, a custom still somewhat in vogue, and known as "commanding trade."

At other times, it was refreshing to see a drummer emerge from a week's carousal, take a drink
of plain soda, and write a long letter to his employers concerning the extreme dulness of trade.

But since the new hotel had been built the Half-Way House had waned, and its quiet was only
invaded by an occasional straggling traveller or a runaway couple, and its walls resounded
with nothing more clamorous than the orgies of a Sunday-school picnic.

It is, however, with the Ladies' Parlor only (that wretched abode of female discomfort in all
country hotels) that we have to do.

The furniture of the room consisted of the articles usually found in a boudoir of this kind,
to wit: a straight-backed sofa, much worn; the inevitable and horrid straw carpeting; that
old Satanic piano, that never was in tune; an antique and rheumatic table, and three wheezy
old chairs. The only present attempts at ornament were two in number. The first was a large
engraving of the Presidents of the United States, which had formerly done duty in the bar-room,
where the villagers were wont to gaze upon it in an awe-struck manner, being impressed with
a vague idea that it was CHRISTY'S Minstrels. The second was a living statue, none other than
ANN BRUMMET waiting for JEFFRY MAULBOY.

"Half-past three, and not come yet," said she. "Look out, JEFFRY MAULBOY, for if you do go
back on me"--

She paused, for she saw a man coming towards the house.

"Well, if that ain't ARCHIBALD BLINKSOP," she added, "I'm regularly sold. What can he want here?"

Yes, it was ARCHIBALD sure enough, biting his finger-nails and breathing very short, while
he cast furtive glances at the windows.

He went slowly up the steps and into the entry just as Mrs. BACKUP, the landlady of the House,
came out of her sitting-room.

Now, Mrs. BACKUP was one of your eminently respectable females, who are always loaded to the
muzzle with Beautiful Moral Essays, which they try to cram down everybody's throat, but never
practise themselves. She formerly kept a boarding-house in the city, where, at table regularly
after soup, she would regale those present with long dissertations on the shocking immorality
of the present day, varying the monotony, perhaps, by allusions to the boarders who had just
left. "Mr. SIMPSON was a pleasant-spoken young man as I want to see, and as good as the bank,
but I'm afraid he was agettin' dissipated;" or, "Mr. FIELDING was quiet and mannerly, and never
found fault with his vittles, but he had one DREADful habit;" and then she would sigh heavily.
And when little Miss PINKHAM, who occupied the second floor back (and who, being a schoolma'am,
was naturally debarred from the other sex), indulged in the smallest possible flirtation with
the good-looking young man opposite, Mrs. BACKUP'S sharp eye not only saw her, but Mrs. BACKUP'S
sharp tongue took occasion to berate her severely on a Sunday morning (for then the boarders
are all in), at the top of the first landing (for then the boarders could all hear her). "I
am saprised, Miss PINKHAM. Why, when I see that young man asittin' at his winder, and a blowin'
beans. Yes, a blowin' beans, Miss PINKHAM, through a horrible tin pop-gun at your'n, and a
winkin' vicious, and you a enjoyin' on it, Miss PINKHAM, I sot down; yes, I sot right down,
and I shuddered. 'Sich doin's in my house,' says I, 'I am totilly congealed.'" When all the
time, mind you, the virtuous Mrs. BACKUP was a woman who would bear any amount of watching,
having already caused three husbands to frantically emigrate to parts unknown.

Seeing that ARCHIBALD hesitated, she said:--

"Well, young man, what's wanted?"

"I--I--want to see ANN BRUMMET," said ARCHIBALD.

"Oh, you do, do you?" rejoined Mrs. BACKUP, regally; "and who, may I ask, is ANN BRUMMET?"

"A young lady that I was--a--to meet here," replied ARCHIBALD, timidly.

Mrs. BACKUP immediately organized a virtuous tableau, and glared at him majestically.

"A young lady you was to meet here. In-deed. And do you think, young man, that my house is
a place where young chaps can go a-roystorin' and a-gallivinatin' about, and a meetin' young
women?"

"But I don't want to go oysterin'," said ARCHIBALD, "and I don't know how to galvinate. I only
want to tell her something."

"Oh, to tell her something, is it? Well, I'd have no objections, young man, if you said she
was your wife. Then you'd have a right, but not now, for my cha-racter is precious to me, young
man."

"But she ain't my wife," said ARCHIBALD; "I only--kind of know her, you see."

"Drat the man," said Mrs. BACKUP to herself; "he's a born fool that can't take a hint like
that. TEDDY!" she cried to a seedy-looking, pimply man, who was sucking a forlorn-looking pipe
on the back-door step, "you're wanted." She whispered a few words in his ear, and went up-stairs.

TEDDY MCSLUSH was the General Utility man of the Half-Way House. Born down East, of an Irish
father and Scotch mother, he was eminently calculated to live by his wits. His natural talents
were numerous and sparkling. He could tell more lies without notes than any man in the State,
or make a beautiful prayer, all in the way of business. When a runaway couple were married
at the Half-Way House, he would not only give the bride away in a voice broken by emotion,
but he would bless the bridegroom with tears in his eyes, and he would do all this at the lowest
market price. And every Sunday he dressed in a black suit and sung in the choir, and patted
the little children on the head, and was generally respected.

He approached ARCHIBALD, and poked him in the ribs, facetiously.

"Ah!" he ejaculated; "and it's a cryin' shame, so it is, that a fine lad like yerself should
be took with sich a complaint. It's modeshty what ails ye, man. And wasn't it Mester JOHN SHAKESPEER
himself, him as writ the illegant versis, Lord luv his ashis, as says to me only jist afore
his breath soured on him, 'TEDDY,' says he, wid much feelin', 'TEDDY, modeshty is a fine thing
in a woman,' says he, 'but it's death to a man. Promise me now,' says he, 'for I feel as this
clay is a coolin' fast--promise me, TEDDY, as you'll never hev nothink to do with it--no, not
never, my boy.' I promised him, and Hevins knows as I've kep' my word. But, Lord alive, I'm
a keepin' you all the time from yer own dear wife, as is a dyin' to see you--and a sweet dear
it is."

He ushered ARCHIBALD into the Ladies' Parlor, closed the door, and applied his ear to the key-hole,
with an air of the most respectful attention.

According to TEDDY'S way of thinking, ANN was not hankering for ARCHIBALD'S society.

"What do you want here?" said she, sharply.

"Oh, don't speak cross to me, Miss BRUMMET," said he, looking timidly around. Then he put his
finger on his lip, and shook his head energetically.

"I know all about it, you see," said he; "JEFF told me. Oh my! wasn't I struck up, though?
But I'll never tell. He couldn't come, you see. His mother sent for him, and--"

"You lie," she broke in fiercely; "it's a put up job between you two. But it won't do; do you
hear? It won't do."

"Oh, don't look at me that way," said ARCHIBALD, backing toward the door; "I want to go home."

"I'd like to see you go home," she replied, placing her back against the door. "You must think
I'm a fool, to let you off as easy as that. You've got to sit up with me this evening, anyhow."

"But what would folks say?" stammered ARCHIBALD. "Oh, think of my reputation, Miss BRUMMET,
and let me go."

"Your reputation!" she sneered. "Humbug! Men don't have any reputation, except when they steal
a woman's. Come," she added, in a more conciliatory tone, "we'll have some supper, and then
we'll have a game of euchre."

"Euchre! Oh, don't ask me to play euchre," said he; "I'm so mixed up, Miss BRUMMET, I couldn't
tell the King of Ten-spots from the Ace of Jacks. Oh, won't BELINDA grab hold of my hair when
she hears of this!"

"Yes, she'll pull it till she makes her ARCHIE-bald," said ANN, laughing.

ARCHIBALD sat down, and looked at her in a supplicating manner.

"I'll do anything you say," said he, "if you please won't get off any more puns. It's awful.
I knew a fellow once who had it chronic. He doubled every word that he could lay his tongue
to. When he was going to a party, he'd take the dictionary and pick out a lot of words that
could be twisted, and set 'em down and study on 'em, so he could be ready with a lot of puns,
and when he got 'em off folks would laugh, but all the time they'd wish he'd died young. And
that's the way he'd go on. He finally drove his mother into a consumption, and at her funeral,
instead of taking on as he ought to, he only just looked at the body, and said, 'Well, that's
the worst coffin-fit the old lady ever had.' And then he turned round and began to get off
puns on the mourners. Wasn't it dreadful?--But what's that?"

Somebody was knocking at the door.

"What's wanted?" said ANN.

"It's your minister as has come, mum," said TEDDY, from the outside. "What word shall I give him?"

"Tell him I shan't want him," said ANN.

In a few minutes TEDDY came back.

"He says, mum, as he won't go without marryin' somebody, or a gittin' his pay anyway, for it's
a nice buryin' job as he's lost by comin'."

"But," said ANN, "I can't--" She hesitated, and seemed to form a sudden resolution. "Tell him,"
she continued, "tell him--"

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

BIOGRAPHICAL.

    There was an agriculturist, philosopher, and editor,
    Who thought the world his debtor and himself, of course, its creditor;
    A man he was of wonderful vitup'rative fertility,
    Though seeming an embodiment of mildness and docility,
    This ancient agriculturist, philosopher, and editor.

    The clothes he wore were shocking to the citizen æsthetical,
    Assuredly they would not pass in circles which were critical,
    So venerable were they, and so distant from propriety,
    So utterly unsuited to respectable society,
    Which numbers in its membership some citizens æsthetical.

    He kept a model farm for every sort of wild experiment.
    Which was to all the neighborhood a source of constant worriment;
    For every one who passed that way pretended to be eager to
    Discover pumpkin vines that ran across the fields a league or two,
    So queer was the effect of each preposterous experiment.

    He had a dreadful passion, which was not at all professional,
    For going for an office, either local or congressional.
    But though often nominated, yet the people wouldn't ratify,
    Because they thought, quite properly, it would be wrong to gratify
    The all-consuming passion that was not at all professional.

    Among the many hobbies which he cantered on incessantly
    Was one he called Protection, and he rode it quite unpleasantly;
    For if any one dissented from his notions injudiciously,
    He went for him immediately, ferociously and viciously,
    Did this absurd equestrian who cantered on incessantly.

    With which remarks the author of this brief, veracious history
    Concludes his observations on the incarnated mystery
    Known as an agriculturist, philosopher, and editor,
    Who thought the world his debtor, and himself, of course, its creditor,
    And who will surely figure on the oddest page in history.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FITTEST PLACE FOR A "PRESERVER" OF THE PEACE. A "Jam" on Broadway.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. HELMBOLD TO J.G. BENNETT, Jr. "Boo-shoo! fly."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WORDS AND THEIR USES.

Nothing, except counting your stamps, can be more pleasant and exciting than tracing out the
origin of words by the aid of a second-hand dictionary. It's the next funniest thing to grubbing
after stumps in a ten-acre lot. Dentists make capital philologists--: they are so much accustomed
to digging for roots. It's rather dull work to shovel around in the Anglo-Saxon stratum, but,
as soon as you strike the Sanscrit, then you're off, and if you don't find big nuggets, it's
because--well, it's because there are none there. Sometimes you dig down to about the time
when NOAH went on his little sailing excursion, and strike what seems to be a first-class sockdolager
of root, but what is the use? Unfortunately the philology business is overdone; it's chock
full of first-class broken down pedagogues and unsuccessful ink-slingers, and, as soon as you
offer a curious specimen in the way of roots, they write a book to prove that the root don't
exist, or, if it does, that it should not.

However, there is an advantage in knowing the roots of words, and the use to which they were
put in former years. Everybody, you know, is very anxious to read CHAUCER and SPENSER. Now,
after you have studied this subject about forty-two years, you will be able to read CHAUCER
with the aid of an old English dictionary and an Anglo-Saxon grammar.

Many so-called philologists, who have preceded me, have ignorantly derived words from improper
sources. Thus, the compound word, shoofly, has been traced by some to the Irish word shoe,
meaning a hoof-covering, and the French word fly, meaning an insect, when it is apparent to
even the casual observer that it comes from the Guinea word shoo, meaning get out, and the
English word fly, meaning a tripe destroyer. I propose, therefore, to show you the origin of
a few words, in order that you may use them properly, and in order that you may subscribe freely
for my book on this subject, which will shortly be placed before an admiring public.

Theatres. When the players were servants of the king, they were compelled to be proficient
in reading, riting, rithmetic, rhyming, riddling, reciting, rehearsing, and romping. These
accomplishments were grouped together and called the 8 r's, which name naturally enough was
soon applied to the play-houses. This example shows how simple the whole subject is, and how
easily the philology business could he run by a child six years of age.

Country. The origin of this word is, to say the least, odd. City people were accustomed to
visit the rural districts at about the time when rye was ripe, and they were generally amused
by the farmer's pereginations around his rye. Farmers always count rye-stacks in the morning,
in order to discover whether any of them have been lifted during the night. When, upon their
return to the City, the visitors were asked where they had been, they facetiously replied,
"To count rye." This soon became a favorite expression; the "e" was dropped for euphony, and
the rural districts were called country.

Spittoon.--This word comes from the Greek word spit, meaning to slobber, and the Scotch word,
tune, meaning the noise made by the bag-pipes. As the saliva struck the receptacle it made
a noise delightful to the ears of the smoker, and resembling the note of the national instrument
of Scotland. Hence the receptacle was called the spittoon.

Politics.--Quack philologists, who evidently were insane, have gone back to the classics for
the root of this word, when it is well known that immediately after the termination of the
Revolution, when the Government of this country was about to be settled, the word came into
existence. A woman, called POLLY, kept a corner grocery in New York, and all the fellows who
wanted offices were accustomed to go to POLLY'S for their beer, because she trusted. Here they
usually divulged their ideas of the manner in which the Government machine should be run. When
asked why they went to that store, they always answered, "POLLY ticks." Outsiders, when asked
what was going on in POLLY's store, always answered with a wise look, "POLLY ticks." The words
soon spread, and talking about the Government was facetiously called POLLY ticks. The expression
was finally used in earnest, and, by euphoric changes, reached its present shape.

Cheese-it.--This compound word has by some silly person been traced to the Saxon cyse, meaning
condensed cow, and the Celtic it, meaning it. Now every way-faring man, even though non compos
mentis, knows that when he is invited to come in and cut a cheese, come in and take a drop
of whiskey is meant. This word, then, is derived from the Sanscrit cheese, meaning drop, and
the English it, meaning whatever you may happen to be saying, and the whole expression may
be properly translated "drop that yarn."

I might go on straight through the Dictionary, but I refrain, desiring only to show you what
a light and entertaining subject philology is, and what quantities of fun you can get out of
it on winter evenings.

If any one should desire to pursue this subject further, let him go through CHAUCER, SPENSER,
SHAKSPEARE, and MILTON with a fine-tooth comb and a pair of spectacles, looking for roots,
and then try my book on "Words and their Uses." He had better not attack the latter work on
an empty stomach. An empty head will be more appropriate.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Mendicant Mission.

Two fresh rumors about that unfortunate English Mission are afloat. One is that it has been
tendered to the Hon. HENRY T. BLOW; the other is that the--well, no, not exactly Hon.--DAN.
SICKLES is to be transferred from Madrid to the Court of St. JAMES. 'Tis much the same thing.
If BLOW is appointed, it's BLOW; and if SICKLES is appointed, it's Blow, too.

       *       *       *       *       *

Military Intelligence.

The Fifth Regiment N.G.S.N.Y., composed altogether of Germans, have adopted the Prussian helmet
with a spike on top. This is appropriate, as most Germans are linguists, and like to "spike
the French."

       *       *       *       *       *

Where to Commence the Civil Service Reform.

In our Hotels and Restaurants.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

Regarding me thoughtfully for a moment, MARGARET asks, "What is an 'old comedy?'"

I say to her, "An old comedy is to the comedy of to-day, precisely what an old beau, padded,
painted, simpering with false teeth, and leering with rhumy eyes, is to a handsome, gallant
young fellow, such as Mr. LESTER WALLACK impersonates in Ours or School."

To which she replies, "What are roomy eyes, dear?" (Being her fourth cousin by marriage, I
am a sort of maiden aunt to her,--whence this respectful familiarity.) "Eyes in which there
is room for the honest glances that never show themselves?'"

I sternly remark that "nice girls never pun."

"Yes," she replies; "punning, like beer and other vices, is the peculiar prerogative of men,
I suppose. But you need not be afraid. I read PUNCHINELLO sometimes, and it is a terrible warning
to people who are tempted to pun. I could give you frightful instances of the appalling depth
to which the men who make puns in PUNCHINELLO occasionally sink."

I hastily close the discussion by inviting her to come to WALLACK'S and see an old comedy.
So we find ourselves on the following evening in the only theatre in the country where that
rather important adjunct of a theatre--a company--is to be found,

There are quantities of elegant dresses in the house,--the ladies having an idea that an old
comedy is one of those things which every fashionable person ought to see. There are also numbers
of nice young men, who, being the burning and shining lights of fashionable society (after
their day's work behind the counter is ended), come to be bored by the old comedy, with a heroism
which proves how immeasurably superior to the influences of tape and calico are their youthful
souls. By the by, it is one of the unavoidable désagréments of New York society that the wearer
of the elegant dress is often conscious that her partner in the waltz knows precisely how many
yards of material compose her skirt, and exactly how much it cost per yard, for the excellent
reason that he himself measured it with his professional yard-stick, and cut it with his private
scissors. This, however, is a subject that belongs not to old comedy, but to the extremely
modern comedy of New York society. The two resemble each other only so far as they are fashionable
and dull.

But to our WALLACKIAN old comedy. The curtain rises upon the veteran GILBERT and the handsome
ROCKWELL. They converse in the following style:

GILBERT.--"Well, you young dog, ha! ha! So you have decided to make your old uncle happy by
marrying my neighbor's daughter. Gad! I remember my own wedding-day. Well, well; we won't talk
about that now, but hark ye, you young villain, if you don't marry the girl, I cut you off
with a shilling."

ROCKWELL.--"My dear uncle, I can have no greater pleasure than to fulfil your wishes. But suppose
our adorable young neighbor has the ill-breeding to refuse me."

GILBERT.--"Refuse you! Refuse my nephew? Gad! I'd like to see THOMAS OLDBOY permit his daughter
to refuse my nephew! I'd--d--e, I'd--" (chokes and stamps with rage.)

Further on we meet with Miss OLDBOY and her mother,--the latter a stout old lady, addicted
to smelling salts and yellow silks.

LYDIA OLDBOY.--"To-day I am expecting the arrival of young WILDOATS, who comes to pay his addresses
to me. I wonder if he is like that dear, delightful THADDEUS OF WARSAW."

Mrs. OLDBOY.--"Now, Miss, remember that your honored father insists upon this match. I expect
you to be a dutiful daughter, and accede to his wishes. Here comes the young man himself."

ROCKWELL.--"My. dear Mrs. OLDBOY, I am charmed to see you. You are looking positively younger
than your ravishingly beautiful daughter. Fair LYDIA, I come to lay my heart at your feet.
'Tis the wish of my uncle and your honored father that we should unite our respective houses.
Let me touch that exquisite hand. Unseal those ruby lips and tell me that I am the happiest
of men."

Here the UNCLE and OLDBOY enter. They chuckle, and poke one another in the ribs, remarking
"Gad" and "Zounds" at intervals. They bless the young couple, and order up some of the old
Madeira. The curtain falls as OLDBOY gives the health of the young people, with the wish that
they may have a dozen children, and a cellar never without plenty of this splendid old Madeira,--"that
your father, bottled, Miss LYDIA, the year our gracious sovereign came to the throne."

This is a fair sample of the old comedy. The oaths are of course omitted, out of deference
to the tender susceptibilities of the editor of PUNCHINELLO. So are the indecencies, which
are the spice of the old comedy, but which cannot be written in a respectable journal, and
are almost too gross and brutal for the Sun. Take from an old comedy its oaths and its grossness,
and nothing is left but a residuum of boisterous inanity. The condensed old comedy which has
just been laid before the readers of PUNCHINELLO, is as inane and vapid as anything that WALLACK'S
theatre has shown us in the past month. Do you find it dull? For my part, I don't hesitate
to say that the "Essence of Old Virginny," as furnished by the venerable poet, Mr. DANIEL BRYANT,
is vastly more amusing than the Essence of Old Comedy.

All of which I say, in my most impressive manner, to MARGARET as we struggle through the crowded
lobby. But she irreverently disputes my assertions, and asks, "How is it that everybody admires
these comedies if they are so wretched as you say they are? Is your judgment better than that
of anybody else?"

There being nothing to say, if I mean to maintain my ground, except that my judgment is the
only infallible critical judgment in this city or elsewhere, I promptly and unblushingly say
so. But MARGARET tells me I am "a goose"--(I think I have mentioned that she is my aunt, and
hence allows herself these pleasing freedoms of speech)--and says that I shall take her to
see the old comedies every night, until I am willing to say that I like them.

Who is there that, in view of this threat, will not drop the tear of sensibility, so neatly
alluded to by Mr. STERNE, in sympathy with the prospective sufferings of

MATADOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNIVERSITY-MANIA.

MY DEAR P.:--I have made some curious observations of this disease, which lead to startling
conclusions.

It is a malady peculiar to the United States, being an eruption resulting from indigestion
of unripe knowledge, together with excess of vanity in individual blood.

Universities spring up among us like mushrooms, in a night. The seed of knowledge is sown broadcast
over our land. In fact, in this particular we may be said to be very seedy, indeed.

For my part I have no objection to Universities--when they are Universities. But, at the rate
at which we are now progressing, we shall soon have "every man his own University." It will
become the fashion to keep a University in the back-yard. And then, you know, the institution
must have its own particular organ, you know. Every man, and every member of his family, shall
print his or her Free Press, and independence of opinion shall reign.

    Glorious country! Glorious free speech!
    With WALT WHITMAN, we may well exclaim:
    O the BROWN University!
    O the splendid University of SMITH!
    O CORNELL, his University!

                         &c. ad infinitum.

As for me, dear NELLO, I am in the front rank of civilization. I have accepted the Chair of
Cane-bottom in a Grub-Street garret, and rejoice in a barrel-organ, which plays with great
freedom of speech.

Yours pedagoguically,

JEREMY DOGWOOD.

       *       *       *       *       *

A. Sop for Ireland.

It is stated that Queen VICTORIA has ordered from a Dublin manufacturer an extensive assortment
of Balbriggan hosiery for the wedding outfit of the Princess LOUISE. There is a stroke of policy
in this. In firemen's phrase it may be called laying on the "hose" to quench disloyalty.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT. The Marine Hospital.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRIALS OF A WITNESS.

MR. PUNCHINELLO:--As all people seem to come to you with their troubles and grievances, I hope
you will not refuse to listen to my woes. And whether they are woes or not, I leave you to
judge for yourself.

At the beginning of last week I made my first appearance in any court-room, in the character
of a witness, in the case of VALENTINE vs. ORSON; in which the point in dispute was the ownership
of a tract of land in Wyoming Territory. I knew something in regard to the sale of these lands,
and was fully prepared to testify to the extent of my knowledge in the premises; but judge
of my utter surprise and horror on being obliged to go through such an ordeal as the following
extracts from my examination will indicate.

The counsel for the plaintiff commenced by asking me if I was a married man, and when I had
answered that. I was, he said:--

"Is your wife a believer in the principles of the Woman's Rights party?"

I could not, for the life of me, see what this had to do with the land in Wyoming, but I answered,
that I was happy to say she was not.

The examination then proceeded as follows:--

Q. You are happy, then, in your matrimonial relations? A. Yes--(and remembering the oath) reasonably
so.

Q. Is your wife pretty? A. (Witness remembering at once his oath and his wife's presence in
court) She is pretty pretty.

Q. What are her defects? A. (Witness remembering only his wife's presence.) I have never been
able to discover them.

Q. Do you wear flannel? A. Yes, in winter.

Q. Can you testify, upon your oath, that you do not wear flannel in summer? A. I can.

Q. Now be careful in your answer. What do you wear in the spring and fall? A. I--I wear my
common clothes.

Q. With flannel, or without flannel? A. Sometimes with, and sometimes without.

Q. No evasion; you must tell the Court exactly when you wear flannel, and when you do not.

A series of questions on this subject brought out the fact that I wore flannel when the weather
was cold, or cool; and did not wear it when it was mild, or warm.

Q. Have you a lightning-rod on your house? A. I have.

Q. How much did it cost you to have it put up? A. It has not cost me anything yet--I owe for it.

Q. Is that all you owe for? A. No, I have other debts.

Q. Have you any money with you now? A. I have.

Q. How much? A. (Counting contents of porte-monnaie.) Sixty-two cents.

Q. Where did you get that? A. (With embarrassment.) I borrowed it.

Q. Were you present when defendant first offered his land for sale to the plaintiff? A. (Brightening
up.) I was.

Q. Do you burn gas or kerosene in your house? A. Gas.

Q. How many burners? A. Ten, I think.

Q. Are you willing to assert, upon your solemn oath, that there are only ten? A. (Witness counting
on his fingers.) I am.

Q. Do you wear studs or buttons on your shirt fronts? A. Studs.

Q. Gold, or pearl? A. Mother-of-pearl, as a general thing, but sometimes I wear one gold one
at the top.

Q. Were all your studs of mother-of-pearl, at the time when you first heard this transaction
mentioned between the parties? A. They were.

Q. Do you ever wear your gold stud in the middle of your bosom? A. No, sir, I always wear it
at the top.

Q. Do you ever wear it at the bottom? Can you swear it was not at the bottom on the day of
the transaction referred to? A. I distinctly remember that I did not wear it at all that day.

Q. Did you wear it that night? A. No, sir.

Q. Can you swear that after you went to bed you did not wear it? A. I can.

Q. Have you ever been vaccinated? A. I have.

Q. On which arm? A. The left.

