we are apt not to hear that it is there. But there is another reason--the craving, which has
seized upon our poetry and our criticism ever since the triumph of Wordsworth and Coleridge
at the beginning of the last century, for metaphysical stimulants. It would be easy to prolong
the discussion of this matter far beyond the boundaries of 'sublunary debate,' but it is sufficient
to point out that Mr. Bailey's criticism of Racine affords an excellent example of the fatal
effects of this obsession. His pages are full of references to 'infinity' and 'the unseen'
and 'eternity' and 'a mystery brooding over a mystery' and 'the key to the secret of life';
and it is only natural that he should find in these watchwords one of those tests of poetic
greatness of which he is so fond. The fallaciousness of such views as these becomes obvious
when we remember the plain fact that there is not a trace of this kind of mystery or of these
'feelings after the key to the secret of life,' in Paradise Lost, and that Paradise Lost is
one of the greatest poems in the world. But Milton is sacrosanct in England; no theory, however
mistaken, can shake that stupendous name, and the damage which may be wrought by a vicious
system of criticism only becomes evident in its treatment of writers like Racine, whom it can
attack with impunity and apparent success. There is no 'mystery' in Racine--that is to say,
there are no metaphysical speculations in him, no suggestions of the transcendental, no hints
as to the ultimate nature of reality and the constitution of the world; and so away with him,
a creature of mere rhetoric and ingenuities, to the outer limbo! But if, instead of asking
what a writer is without, we try to discover simply what he is, will not our results be more
worthy of our trouble? And in fact, if we once put out of our heads our longings for the mystery
of metaphysical suggestion, the more we examine Racine, the more clearly we shall discern in
him another kind of mystery, whose presence may eventually console us for the loss of the first--the
mystery of the mind of man. This indeed is the framework of his poetry, and to speak of it
adequately would demand a wider scope than that of an essay; for how much might be written
of that strange and moving background, dark with the profundity of passion and glowing with
the beauty of the sublime, wherefrom the great personages of his tragedies--Hermione and Mithridate,
Roxane and Agrippine, Athalie and Phèdre--seem to emerge for a moment towards us, whereon they
breathe and suffer, and among whose depths they vanish for ever from our sight! Look where
we will, we shall find among his pages the traces of an inward mystery and the obscure infinities
of the heart.

    Nous avons su toujours nous aimer et nous taire.

The line is a summary of the romance and the anguish of two lives. That is all affection; and
this all desire--

    J'aimais jusqu'à ses pleurs que je faisais couler.

Or let us listen to the voice of Phèdre, when she learns that Hippolyte and Aricie love one
another:

    Les a-t-on vus souvent se parler, se chercher?
    Dans le fond des forêts alloient-ils se cacher?
    Hélas! ils se voyaient avec pleine licence;
    Le ciel de leurs soupirs approuvait l'innocence;
    Ils suivaient sans remords leur penchant amoureux;
    Tous les jours se levaient clairs et sereins pour eux.

This last line--written, let us remember, by a frigidly ingenious rhetorician, who had never
looked out of his study-window--does it not seem to mingle, in a trance of absolute simplicity,
the peerless beauty of a Claude with the misery and ruin of a great soul?

It is, perhaps, as a psychologist that Racine has achieved his most remarkable triumphs; and
the fact that so subtle and penetrating a critic as M. Lemaître has chosen to devote the greater
part of a volume to the discussion of his characters shows clearly enough that Racine's portrayal
of human nature has lost nothing of its freshness and vitality with the passage of time. On
the contrary, his admirers are now tending more and more to lay stress upon the brilliance
of his portraits, the combined vigour and intimacy of his painting, his amazing knowledge,
and his unerring fidelity to truth. M. Lemaître, in fact, goes so far as to describe Racine
as a supreme realist, while other writers have found in him the essence of the modern spirit.
These are vague phrases, no doubt, but they imply a very definite point of view; and it is
curious to compare with it our English conception of Racine as a stiff and pompous kind of
dancing-master, utterly out of date and infinitely cold. And there is a similar disagreement
over his style. Mr. Bailey is never tired of asserting that Racine's style is rhetorical, artificial,
and monotonous; while M. Lemaître speaks of it as 'nu et familier,' and Sainte-Beuve says 'il
rase la prose, mais avec des ailes,' The explanation of these contradictions is to be found
in the fact that the two critics are considering different parts of the poet's work. When Racine
is most himself, when he is seizing upon a state of mind and depicting it with all its twistings
and vibrations, he writes with a directness which is indeed naked, and his sentences, refined
to the utmost point of significance, flash out like swords, stroke upon stroke, swift, certain,
irresistible. This is how Agrippine, in the fury of her tottering ambition, bursts out to Burrhus,
the tutor of her son:

    Prétendez-vous longtemps me cacher l'empereur?
    Ne le verrai-je plus qu'à titre d'importune?
    Ai-je donc élevé si haut votre fortune
    Pour mettre une barrière entre mon fils et moi?
    Ne l'osez-vous laisser un moment sur sa foi?
    Entre Sénèque et vous disputez-vous la gloire
    A qui m'effacera plus tôt de sa mémoire?
    Vous l'ai-je confié pour en faire un ingrat,
    Pour être, sous son nom, les maîtres de l'état?
    Certes, plus je médite, et moins je me figure
    Que vous m'osiez compter pour votre créature;
    Vous, dont j'ai pu laisser vieillir l'ambition
    Dans les honneurs obscurs de quelque légion;
    Et moi, qui sur le trône ai suivi mes ancêtres,
    Moi, fille, femme, soeur, et mère de vos maîtres!

When we come upon a passage like this we know, so to speak, that the hunt is up and the whole
field tearing after the quarry. But Racine, on other occasions, has another way of writing.
He can be roundabout, artificial, and vague; he can involve a simple statement in a mist of
high-sounding words and elaborate inversions.

    Jamais l'aimable soeur des cruels Pallantides
    Trempa-t-elle aux complots de ses frères perfides.

That is Racine's way of saying that Aricie did not join in her brothers' conspiracy. He will
describe an incriminating letter as 'De sa trahison ce gage trop sincère.' It is obvious that
this kind of expression has within it the germs of the 'noble' style of the eighteenth-century
tragedians, one of whom, finding himself obliged to mention a dog, got out of the difficulty
by referring to--'De la fidélité le respectable appui.' This is the side of Racine's writing
that puzzles and disgusts Mr. Bailey. But there is a meaning in it, after all. Every art is
based upon a selection, and the art of Racine selected the things of the spirit for the material
of its work. The things of sense--physical objects and details, and all the necessary but insignificant
facts that go to make up the machinery of existence--these must be kept out of the picture
at all hazards. To have called a spade a spade would have ruined the whole effect; spades must
never be mentioned, or, at the worst, they must be dimly referred to as agricultural implements,
so that the entire attention may be fixed upon the central and dominating features of the composition--the
spiritual states of the characters--which, laid bare with uncompromising force and supreme
precision, may thus indelibly imprint themselves upon the mind. To condemn Racine on the score
of his ambiguities and his pomposities is to complain of the hastily dashed-in column and curtain
in the background of a portrait, and not to mention the face. Sometimes indeed his art seems
to rise superior to its own conditions, endowing even the dross and refuse of what it works
in with a wonderful significance. Thus when the Sultana, Roxane, discovers her lover's treachery,
her mind flies immediately to thoughts of revenge and death, and she exclaims--

    Ah! je respire enfin, et ma joie est extrême
    Que le traître une fois se soit trahi lui-même.
    Libre des soins cruels où j'allais m'engager,
    Ma tranquille fureur n'a plus qu'à se venger.
    Qu'il meure. Vengeons-nous. Courez. Qu'on le saisisse!
    Que la main des muets s'arme pour son supplice;
    Qu'ils viennent préparer ces noeuds infortunés
    Par qui de ses pareils les jours sont terminés.

To have called a bowstring a bowstring was out of the question; and Racine, with triumphant
art, has managed to introduce the periphrasis in such a way that it exactly expresses the state
of mind of the Sultana. She begins with revenge and rage, until she reaches the extremity of
virulent resolution; and then her mind begins to waver, and she finally orders the execution
of the man she loves, in a contorted agony of speech.

But, as a rule, Racine's characters speak out most clearly when they are most moved, so that
their words, at the height of passion, have an intensity of directness unknown in actual life.
In such moments, the phrases that leap to their lips quiver and glow with the compressed significance
of character and situation; the 'Qui te l'a dit?' of Hermione, the 'Sortez' of Roxane, the
'Je vais à Rome' of Mithridate, the 'Dieu des Juifs, tu l'emportes!' of Athalie--who can forget
these things, these wondrous microcosms of tragedy? Very different is the Shakespearean method.
There, as passion rises, expression becomes more and more poetical and vague. Image flows into
image, thought into thought, until at last the state of mind is revealed, inform and molten,
driving darkly through a vast storm of words. Such revelations, no doubt, come closer to reality
than the poignant epigrams of Racine. In life, men's minds are not sharpened, they are diffused,
by emotion; and the utterance which best represents them is fluctuating and agglomerated rather
than compact and defined. But Racine's aim was less to reflect the actual current of the human
spirit than to seize upon its inmost being and to give expression to that. One might be tempted
to say that his art represents the sublimed essence of reality, save that, after all, reality
has no degrees. Who can affirm that the wild ambiguities of our hearts and the gross impediments
of our physical existence are less real than the most pointed of our feelings and 'thoughts
beyond the reaches of our souls'?

It would be nearer the truth to rank Racine among the idealists. The world of his creation
is not a copy of our own; it is a heightened and rarefied extension of it; moving, in triumph
and in beauty, through 'an ampler ether, a diviner air.' It is a world where the hesitations
and the pettinesses and the squalors of this earth have been fired out; a world where ugliness
is a forgotten name, and lust itself has grown ethereal; where anguish has become a grace and
death a glory, and love the beginning and the end of all. It is, too, the world of a poet,
so that we reach it, not through melody nor through vision, but through the poet's sweet articulation--through
verse. Upon English ears the rhymed couplets of Racine sound strangely; and how many besides
Mr. Bailey have dubbed his alexandrines 'monotonous'! But to his lovers, to those who have
found their way into the secret places of his art, his lines are impregnated with a peculiar
beauty, and the last perfection of style. Over them, the most insignificant of his verses can
throw a deep enchantment, like the faintest wavings of a magician's wand. 'A-t-on vu de ma
part le roi de Comagène?'--How is it that words of such slight import should hold such thrilling
music? Oh! they are Racine's words. And, as to his rhymes, they seem perhaps, to the true worshipper,
the final crown of his art. Mr. Bailey tells us that the couplet is only fit for satire. Has
he forgotten Lamia? And he asks, 'How is it that we read Pope's Satires and Dryden's, and Johnson's
with enthusiasm still, while we never touch Irene, and rarely the Conquest of Granada?' Perhaps
the answer is that if we cannot get rid of our a priori theories, even the fiery art of Dryden's
drama may remain dead to us, and that, if we touched Irene even once, we should find it was
in blank verse. But Dryden himself has spoken memorably upon rhyme. Discussing the imputed
unnaturalness of the rhymed 'repartee' he says: 'Suppose we acknowledge it: how comes this
confederacy to be more displeasing to you than in a dance which is well contrived? You see
there the united design of many persons to make up one figure; ... the confederacy is plain
amongst them, for chance could never produce anything so beautiful; and yet there is nothing
in it that shocks your sight ... 'Tis an art which appears; but it appears only like the shadowings
of painture, which, being to cause the rounding of it, cannot be absent; but while that is
considered, they are lost: so while we attend to the other beauties of the matter, the care
and labour of the rhyme is carried from us, or at least drowned in its own sweetness, as bees
are sometimes buried in their honey.' In this exquisite passage Dryden seems to have come near,
though not quite to have hit, the central argument for rhyme--its power of creating a beautiful
atmosphere, in which what is expressed may be caught away from the associations of common life
and harmoniously enshrined. For Racine, with his prepossessions of sublimity and perfection,
some such barrier between his universe and reality was involved in the very nature of his art.
His rhyme is like the still clear water of a lake, through which we can see, mysteriously separated
from us and changed and beautified, the forms of his imagination, 'quivering within the wave's
intenser day.' And truly not seldom are they 'so sweet, the sense faints picturing them'!

    Oui, prince, je languis, je brûle pour Thésée ...
    Il avait votre port, vos yeux, votre langage,
    Cette noble pudeur colorait son visage,
    Lorsque de notre Crète il traversa les flots,
    Digne sujet des voeux des filles de Minos.
    Que faisiez-vous alors? Pourquoi, sans Hippolyte,
    Des héros de la Grèce assembla-t-il l'élite?
    Pourquoi, trop jeune encor, ne pûtes-vous alors
    Entrer dans le vaisseau qui le mit sur nos bords?
    Par vous aurait péri le monstre de la Crète,
    Malgré tous les détours de sa vaste retraite:
    Pour en développer l'embarras incertain
    Ma soeur du fil fatal eût armé votre main.
    Mais non: dans ce dessein je l'aurais devancée;
    L'amour m'en eût d'abord inspiré la pensée;
    C'est moi, prince, c'est moi dont l'utile secours
    Vous eût du labyrinthe enseigné les détours.
    Que de soins m'eût coûtés cette tête charmante!

It is difficult to 'place' Racine among the poets. He has affinities with many; but likenesses
to few. To balance him rigorously against any other--to ask whether he is better or worse than
Shelley or than Virgil--is to attempt impossibilities; but there is one fact which is too often
forgotten in comparing his work with that of other poets--with Virgil's for instance--Racine
wrote for the stage. Virgil's poetry is intended to be read, Racine's to be declaimed; and
it is only in the theatre that one can experience to the full the potency of his art. In a
sense we can know him in our library, just as we can hear the music of Mozart with silent eyes.
But, when the strings begin, when the whole volume of that divine harmony engulfs us, how differently
then we understand and feel! And so, at the theatre, before one of those high tragedies, whose
interpretation has taxed to the utmost ten generations of the greatest actresses of France,
we realise, with the shock of a new emotion, what we had but half-felt before. To hear the
words of Phèdre spoken by the mouth of Bernhardt, to watch, in the culminating horror of crime
and of remorse, of jealousy, of rage, of desire, and of despair, all the dark forces of destiny
crowd down upon that great spirit, when the heavens and the earth reject her, and Hell opens,
and the terriffic urn of Minos thunders and crashes to the ground--that indeed is to come close
to immortality, to plunge shuddering through infinite abysses, and to look, if only for a moment,
upon eternal light.

1908.

SIR THOMAS BROWNE

The life of Sir Thomas Browne does not afford much scope for the biographer. Everyone knows
that Browne was a physician who lived at Norwich in the seventeenth century; and, so far as
regards what one must call, for want of a better term, his 'life,' that is a sufficient summary
of all there is to know. It is obvious that, with such scanty and unexciting materials, no
biographer can say very much about what Sir Thomas Browne did; it is quite easy, however, to
expatiate about what he wrote. He dug deeply into so many subjects, he touched lightly upon
so many more, that his works offer innumerable openings for those half-conversational digressions
and excursions of which perhaps the pleasantest kind of criticism is composed.

Mr. Gosse, in his volume on Sir Thomas Browne in the 'English Men of Letters' Series, has evidently
taken this view of his subject. He has not attempted to treat it with any great profundity
or elaboration; he has simply gone 'about it and about.' The result is a book so full of entertainment,
of discrimination, of quiet humour, and of literary tact, that no reader could have the heart
to bring up against it the obvious--though surely irrelevant--truth, that the general impression
which it leaves upon the mind is in the nature of a composite presentment, in which the features
of Sir Thomas have become somehow indissolubly blended with those of his biographer. It would
be rash indeed to attempt to improve upon Mr. Gosse's example; after his luminous and suggestive
chapters on Browne's life at Norwich, on the Vulgar Errors, and on the self-revelations in
the Religio Medici, there seems to be no room for further comment. One can only admire in silence,
and hand on the volume to one's neighbour.

There is, however, one side of Browne's work upon which it may be worth while to dwell at somewhat
greater length. Mr. Gosse, who has so much to say on such a variety of topics, has unfortunately
limited to a very small number of pages his considerations upon what is, after all, the most
important thing about the author of Urn Burial and The Garden of Cyrus--his style. Mr. Gosse
himself confesses that it is chiefly as a master of literary form that Browne deserves to be
remembered. Why then does he tell us so little about his literary form, and so much about his
family, and his religion, and his scientific opinions, and his porridge, and who fished up
the murex?

Nor is it only owing to its inadequacy that Mr. Gosse's treatment of Browne as an artist in
language is the least satisfactory part of his book: for it is difficult not to think that
upon this crucial point Mr. Gosse has for once been deserted by his sympathy and his acumen.
In spite of what appears to be a genuine delight in Browne's most splendid and characteristic
passages, Mr. Gosse cannot help protesting somewhat acrimoniously against that very method
of writing whose effects he is so ready to admire. In practice, he approves; in theory, he
condemns. He ranks the Hydriotaphia among the gems of English literature; and the prose style
of which it is the consummate expression he denounces as fundamentally wrong. The contradiction
is obvious; but there can be little doubt that, though Browne has, as it were, extorted a personal
homage, Mr. Gosse's real sympathies lie on the other side. His remarks upon Browne's effect
upon eighteenth-century prose show clearly enough the true bent of his opinions; and they show,
too, how completely misleading a preconceived theory may be.

The study of Sir Thomas Browne, Mr. Gosse says, 'encouraged Johnson, and with him a whole school
of rhetorical writers in the eighteenth century, to avoid circumlocution by the invention of
superfluous words, learned but pedantic, in which darkness was concentrated without being dispelled.'
Such is Mr. Gosse's account of the influence of Browne and Johnson upon the later eighteenth-century
writers of prose. But to dismiss Johnson's influence as something altogether deplorable, is
surely to misunderstand the whole drift of the great revolution which he brought about in English
letters. The characteristics of the pre-Johnsonian prose style--the style which Dryden first
established and Swift brought to perfection--are obvious enough. Its advantages are those of
clarity and force; but its faults, which, of course, are unimportant in the work of a great
master, become glaring in that of the second-rate practitioner. The prose of Locke, for instance,
or of Bishop Butler, suffers, in spite of its clarity and vigour, from grave defects. It is
very flat and very loose; it has no formal beauty, no elegance, no balance, no trace of the
deliberation of art. Johnson, there can be no doubt, determined to remedy these evils by giving
a new mould to the texture of English prose; and he went back for a model to Sir Thomas Browne.
Now, as Mr. Gosse himself observes, Browne stands out in a remarkable way from among the great
mass of his contemporaries and predecessors, by virtue of his highly developed artistic consciousness.
He was, says Mr. Gosse, 'never carried away. His effects are closely studied, they are the
result of forethought and anxious contrivance'; and no one can doubt the truth or the significance
of this dictum who compares, let us say, the last paragraphs of The Garden of Cyrus with any
page in The Anatomy of Melancholy. The peculiarities of Browne's style--the studied pomp of
its latinisms, its wealth of allusion, its tendency towards sonorous antithesis--culminated
in his last, though not his best, work, the Christian Morals, which almost reads like an elaborate
and magnificent parody of the Book of Proverbs. With the Christian Morals to guide him, Dr.
Johnson set about the transformation of the prose of his time. He decorated, he pruned, he
balanced; he hung garlands, he draped robes; and he ended by converting the Doric order of
Swift into the Corinthian order of Gibbon. Is it quite just to describe this process as one
by which 'a whole school of rhetorical writers' was encouraged 'to avoid circumlocution' by
the invention 'of superfluous words,' when it was this very process that gave us the peculiar
savour of polished ease which characterises nearly all the important prose of the last half
of the eighteenth century--that of Johnson himself, of Hume, of Reynolds, of Horace Walpole--which
can be traced even in Burke, and which fills the pages of Gibbon? It is, indeed, a curious
reflection, but one which is amply justified by the facts, that the Decline and Fall could
not have been precisely what it is, had Sir Thomas Browne never written the Christian Morals.

That Johnson and his disciples had no inkling of the inner spirit of the writer to whose outward
form they owed so much, has been pointed out by Mr. Gosse, who adds that Browne's 'genuine
merits were rediscovered and asserted by Coleridge and Lamb.' But we have already observed
that Mr. Gosse's own assertion of these merits lies a little open to question. His view seems
to be, in fact, the precise antithesis of Dr. Johnson's; he swallows the spirit of Browne's
writing, and strains at the form. Browne, he says, was 'seduced by a certain obscure romance
in the terminology of late Latin writers,' he used 'adjectives of classical extraction, which
are neither necessary nor natural,' he forgot that it is better for a writer 'to consult women
and people who have not studied, than those who are too learnedly oppressed by a knowledge
of Latin and Greek.' He should not have said 'oneiro-criticism,' when he meant the interpretation
of dreams, nor 'omneity' instead of 'oneness'; and he had 'no excuse for writing about the
"pensile" gardens of Babylon, when all that is required is expressed by "hanging."' Attacks
of this kind--attacks upon the elaboration and classicism of Browne's style--are difficult
to reply to, because they must seem, to anyone who holds a contrary opinion, to betray such
a total lack of sympathy with the subject as to make argument all but impossible. To the true
Browne enthusiast, indeed, there is something almost shocking about the state of mind which
would exchange 'pensile' for 'hanging,' and 'asperous' for 'rough,' and would do away with
'digladiation' and 'quodlibetically' altogether. The truth is, that there is a great gulf fixed
between those who naturally dislike the ornate, and those who naturally love it. There is no
remedy; and to attempt to ignore this fact only emphasises it the more. Anyone who is jarred
by the expression 'prodigal blazes' had better immediately shut up Sir Thomas Browne. The critic
who admits the jar, but continues to appreciate, must present, to the true enthusiast, a spectacle
of curious self-contradiction.

If once the ornate style be allowed as a legitimate form of art, no attack such as Mr. Gosse
makes on Browne's latinisms can possibly be valid. For it is surely an error to judge and to
condemn the latinisms without reference to the whole style of which they form a necessary part.
Mr. Gosse, it is true, inclines to treat them as if they were a mere excrescence which could
be cut off without difficulty, and might never have existed if Browne's views upon the English
language had been a little different. Browne, he says, 'had come to the conclusion that classic
words were the only legitimate ones, the only ones which interpreted with elegance the thoughts
of a sensitive and cultivated man, and that the rest were barbarous.' We are to suppose, then,
that if he had happened to hold the opinion that Saxon words were the only legitimate ones,
the Hydriotaphia would have been as free from words of classical derivation as the sermons
of Latimer. A very little reflection and inquiry will suffice to show how completely mistaken
this view really is. In the first place, the theory that Browne considered all unclassical
words 'barbarous' and unfit to interpret his thoughts, is clearly untenable, owing to the obvious
fact that his writings are full of instances of the deliberate use of such words. So much is
this the case, that Pater declares that a dissertation upon style might be written to illustrate
Browne's use of the words 'thin' and 'dark.' A striking phrase from the Christian Morals will
suffice to show the deliberation with which Browne sometimes employed the latter word:--'the
areopagy and dark tribunal of our hearts.' If Browne had thought the Saxon epithet 'barbarous,'
why should he have gone out of his way to use it, when 'mysterious' or 'secret' would have
expressed his meaning? The truth is clear enough. Browne saw that 'dark' was the one word which
would give, better than any other, the precise impression of mystery and secrecy which he intended
to produce; and so he used it. He did not choose his words according to rule, but according
to the effect which he wished them to have. Thus, when he wished to suggest an extreme contrast
between simplicity and pomp, we find him using Saxon words in direct antithesis to classical
ones. In the last sentence of Urn Burial, we are told that the true believer, when he is to
be buried, is 'as content with six foot as the Moles of Adrianus.' How could Browne have produced
the remarkable sense of contrast which this short phrase conveys, if his vocabulary had been
limited, in accordance with a linguistic theory, to words of a single stock?

There is, of course, no doubt that Browne's vocabulary is extraordinarily classical. Why is
this? The reason is not far to seek. In his most characteristic moments he was almost entirely
occupied with thoughts and emotions which can, owing to their very nature, only be expressed
in Latinistic language. The state of mind which he wished to produce in his readers was nearly
always a complicated one: they were to be impressed and elevated by a multiplicity of suggestions
and a sense of mystery and awe. 'Let thy thoughts,' he says himself, 'be of things which have
not entered into the hearts of beasts: think of things long past, and long to come: acquaint
thyself with the choragium of the stars, and consider the vast expanse beyond them. Let intellectual
tubes give thee a glance of things which visive organs reach not. Have a glimpse of incomprehensibles;
and thoughts of things, which thoughts but tenderly touch.' Browne had, in fact, as Dr. Johnson
puts it, 'uncommon sentiments'; and how was he to express them unless by a language of pomp,
of allusion, and of elaborate rhythm? Not only is the Saxon form of speech devoid of splendour
and suggestiveness; its simplicity is still further emphasised by a spondaic rhythm which seems
to produce (by some mysterious rhythmic law) an atmosphere of ordinary life, where, though
the pathetic may be present, there is no place for the complex or the remote. To understand
how unsuitable such conditions would be for the highly subtle and rarefied art of Sir Thomas
Browne, it is only necessary to compare one of his periods with a typical passage of Saxon prose.

     Then they brought a faggot, kindled with fire, and laid the same
     down at Doctor Ridley's feet. But who could conceive
of such a rhythm being ever applicable to the meaning and sentiment of
these sentences from the Hydriotaphia?

Here the long, rolling, almost turgid clauses, with their enormous Latin substantives, seem
to carry the reader forward through an immense succession of ages, until at last, with a sudden
change of the rhythm, the whole of recorded time crumbles and vanishes before his eyes. The
entire effect depends upon the employment of a rhythmical complexity and subtlety which is
utterly alien to Saxon prose. It would be foolish to claim a superiority for either of the
two styles; it would be still more foolish to suppose that the effects of one might be produced
by means of the other.

Wealth of rhythmical elaboration was not the only benefit which a highly Latinised vocabulary
conferred on Browne. Without it, he would never have been able to achieve those splendid strokes
of stylistic bravura, which were evidently so dear to his nature, and occur so constantly in
his finest passages. The precise quality cannot be easily described, but is impossible to mistake;
and the pleasure which it produces seems to be curiously analogous to that given by a piece
of magnificent brushwork in a Rubens or a Velasquez. Browne's 'brushwork' is certainly unequalled
in English literature, except by the very greatest masters of sophisticated art, such as Pope
and Shakespeare; it is the inspiration of sheer technique. Such expressions as: 'to subsist
in bones and be but pyramidally extant'--'sad and sepulchral pitchers which have no joyful
voices'--'predicament of chimaeras'--'the irregularities of vain glory, and wild enormities
of ancient magnanimity'--are examples of this consummate mastery of language, examples which,
with a multitude of others, singly deserve whole hours of delicious gustation, whole days of
absorbed and exquisite worship. It is pleasant to start out for a long walk with such a splendid
phrase upon one's lips as: 'According to the ordainer of order and mystical mathematicks of
the City of Heaven,' to go for miles and miles with the marvellous syllables still rich upon
the inward ear, and to return home with them in triumph. It is then that one begins to understand
how mistaken it was of Sir Thomas Browne not to have written in simple, short, straightforward
Saxon English.

One other function performed by Browne's latinisms must be mentioned, because it is closely
connected with the most essential and peculiar of the qualities which distinguish his method
of writing. Certain classical words, partly owing to their allusiveness, partly owing to their
sound, possess a remarkable flavour which is totally absent from those of Saxon derivation.
Such a word, for instance, as 'pyramidally,' gives one at once an immediate sense of something
mysterious, something extraordinary, and, at the same time, something almost grotesque. And
this subtle blending of mystery and queerness characterises not only Browne's choice of words,
but his choice of feelings and of thoughts. The grotesque side of his art, indeed, was apparently
all that was visible to the critics of a few generations back, who admired him simply and solely
for what they called his 'quaintness'; while Mr. Gosse has flown to the opposite extreme, and
will not allow Browne any sense of humour at all. The confusion no doubt arises merely from
a difference in the point of view. Mr. Gosse, regarding Browne's most important and general
effects, rightly fails to detect anything funny in them. The Early Victorians, however, missed
the broad outlines, and were altogether taken up with the obvious grotesqueness of the details.
When they found Browne asserting that 'Cato seemed to dote upon Cabbage,' or embroidering an
entire paragraph upon the subject of 'Pyrrhus his Toe,' they could not help smiling; and surely
they were quite right. Browne, like an impressionist painter, produced his pictures by means
of a multitude of details which, if one looks at them in themselves, are discordant, and extraordinary,
and even absurd.

