At eleven o'clock at night, when most of the ship's company were abed, four of us stole softly
ashore in a small boat, a clouded moon favoring the enterprise, and started two and two, and
far apart, over a low hill, intending to go clear around the Piraeus, out of the range of its
police. Picking our way so stealthily over that rocky, nettle-grown eminence, made me feel
a good deal as if I were on my way somewhere to steal something.  My immediate comrade and
I talked in an undertone about quarantine laws and their penalties, but we found nothing cheering
in the subject.  I was posted.  Only a few days before, I was talking with our captain, and
he mentioned the case of a man who swam ashore from a quarantined ship somewhere, and got imprisoned
six months for it; and when he was in Genoa a few years ago, a captain of a quarantined ship
went in his boat to a departing ship, which was already outside of the harbor, and put a letter
on board to be taken to his family, and the authorities imprisoned him three months for it,
and then conducted him and his ship fairly to sea, and warned him never to show himself in
that port again while he lived.  This kind of conversation did no good, further than to give
a sort of dismal interest to our quarantine-breaking expedition, and so we dropped it.  We
made the entire circuit of the town without seeing any body but one man, who stared at us curiously,
but said nothing, and a dozen persons asleep on the ground before their doors, whom we walked
among and never woke--but we woke up dogs enough, in all conscience--we always had one or two
barking at our heels, and several times we had as many as ten and twelve at once.  They made
such a preposterous din that persons aboard our ship said they could tell how we were progressing
for a long time, and where we were, by the barking of the dogs.  The clouded moon still favored
us.  When we had made the whole circuit, and were passing among the houses on the further side
of the town, the moon came out splendidly, but we no longer feared the light. As we approached
a well, near a house, to get a drink, the owner merely glanced at us and went within.  He left
the quiet, slumbering town at our mercy.  I record it here proudly, that we didn't do any thing
to it.

Seeing no road, we took a tall hill to the left of the distant Acropolis for a mark, and steered
straight for it over all obstructions, and over a little rougher piece of country than exists
any where else outside of the State of Nevada, perhaps.  Part of the way it was covered with
small, loose stones--we trod on six at a time, and they all rolled.  Another part of it was
dry, loose, newly-ploughed ground.  Still another part of it was a long stretch of low grape-vines,
which were tanglesome and troublesome, and which we took to be brambles.  The Attic Plain,
barring the grape-vines, was a barren, desolate, unpoetical waste--I wonder what it was in
Greece's Age of Glory, five hundred years before Christ?

In the neighborhood of one o'clock in the morning, when we were heated with fast walking and
parched with thirst, Denny exclaimed, "Why, these weeds are grape-vines!"  and in five minutes
we had a score of bunches of large, white, delicious grapes, and were reaching down for more
when a dark shape rose mysteriously up out of the shadows beside us and said "Ho!"  And so we left.

In ten minutes more we struck into a beautiful road, and unlike some others we had stumbled
upon at intervals, it led in the right direction. We followed it.  It was broad, and smooth,
and white--handsome and in perfect repair, and shaded on both sides for a mile or so with single
ranks of trees, and also with luxuriant vineyards.  Twice we entered and stole grapes, and
the second time somebody shouted at us from some invisible place.  Whereupon we left again.
We speculated in grapes no more on that side of Athens.

Shortly we came upon an ancient stone aqueduct, built upon arches, and from that time forth
we had ruins all about us--we were approaching our journey's end.  We could not see the Acropolis
now or the high hill, either, and I wanted to follow the road till we were abreast of them,
but the others overruled me, and we toiled laboriously up the stony hill immediately in our
front--and from its summit saw another--climbed it and saw another!  It was an hour of exhausting
work.  Soon we came upon a row of open graves, cut in the solid rock--(for a while one of them
served Socrates for a prison)--we passed around the shoulder of the hill, and the citadel,
in all its ruined magnificence, burst upon us!  We hurried across the ravine and up a winding
road, and stood on the old Acropolis, with the prodigious walls of the citadel towering above
our heads.  We did not stop to inspect their massive blocks of marble, or measure their height,
or guess at their extraordinary thickness, but passed at once through a great arched passage
like a railway tunnel, and went straight to the gate that leads to the ancient temples.  It
was locked!  So, after all, it seemed that we were not to see the great Parthenon face to face.
We sat down and held a council of war.  Result: the gate was only a flimsy structure of wood--we
would break it down.  It seemed like desecration, but then we had traveled far, and our necessities
were urgent.  We could not hunt up guides and keepers--we must be on the ship before daylight.
So we argued.  This was all very fine, but when we came to break the gate, we could not do
it.  We moved around an angle of the wall and found a low bastion--eight feet high without--ten
or twelve within.  Denny prepared to scale it, and we got ready to follow.  By dint of hard
scrambling he finally straddled the top, but some loose stones crumbled away and fell with
a crash into the court within.  There was instantly a banging of doors and a shout.  Denny
dropped from the wall in a twinkling, and we retreated in disorder to the gate.  Xerxes took
that mighty citadel four hundred and eighty years before Christ, when his five millions of
soldiers and camp-followers followed him to Greece, and if we four Americans could have remained
unmolested five minutes longer, we would have taken it too.

The garrison had turned out--four Greeks.  We clamored at the gate, and they admitted us. 
[Bribery and corruption.]

We crossed a large court, entered a great door, and stood upon a pavement of purest white marble,
deeply worn by footprints.  Before us, in the flooding moonlight, rose the noblest ruins we
had ever looked upon--the Propylae; a small Temple of Minerva; the Temple of Hercules, and
the grand Parthenon.  [We got these names from the Greek guide, who didn't seem to know more
than seven men ought to know.] These edifices were all built of the whitest Pentelic marble,
but have a pinkish stain upon them now.  Where any part is broken, however, the fracture looks
like fine loaf sugar.  Six caryatides, or marble women, clad in flowing robes, support the
portico of the Temple of Hercules, but the porticos and colonnades of the other structures
are formed of massive Doric and Ionic pillars, whose flutings and capitals are still measurably
perfect, notwithstanding the centuries that have gone over them and the sieges they have suffered.
The Parthenon, originally, was two hundred and twenty-six feet long, one hundred wide, and
seventy high, and had two rows of great columns, eight in each, at either end, and single rows
of seventeen each down the sides, and was one of the most graceful and beautiful edifices ever
erected.

Most of the Parthenon's imposing columns are still standing, but the roof is gone.  It was
a perfect building two hundred and fifty years ago, when a shell dropped into the Venetian
magazine stored here, and the explosion which followed wrecked and unroofed it.  I remember
but little about the Parthenon, and I have put in one or two facts and figures for the use
of other people with short memories.  Got them from the guide-book.

As we wandered thoughtfully down the marble-paved length of this stately temple, the scene
about us was strangely impressive.  Here and there, in lavish profusion, were gleaming white
statues of men and women, propped against blocks of marble, some of them armless, some without
legs, others headless--but all looking mournful in the moonlight, and startlingly human!  They
rose up and confronted the midnight intruder on every side --they stared at him with stony
eyes from unlooked-for nooks and recesses; they peered at him over fragmentary heaps far down
the desolate corridors; they barred his way in the midst of the broad forum, and solemnly pointed
with handless arms the way from the sacred fane; and through the roofless temple the moon looked
down, and banded the floor and darkened the scattered fragments and broken statues with the
slanting shadows of the columns.

What a world of ruined sculpture was about us!  Set up in rows--stacked up in piles--scattered
broadcast over the wide area of the Acropolis --were hundreds of crippled statues of all sizes
and of the most exquisite workmanship; and vast fragments of marble that once belonged to the
entablatures, covered with bas-reliefs representing battles and sieges, ships of war with three
and four tiers of oars, pageants and processions --every thing one could think of.  History
says that the temples of the Acropolis were filled with the noblest works of Praxiteles and
Phidias, and of many a great master in sculpture besides--and surely these elegant fragments
attest it.

We walked out into the grass-grown, fragment-strewn court beyond the Parthenon.  It startled
us, every now and then, to see a stony white face stare suddenly up at us out of the grass
with its dead eyes.  The place seemed alive with ghosts.  I half expected to see the Athenian
heroes of twenty centuries ago glide out of the shadows and steal into the old temple they
knew so well and regarded with such boundless pride.

The full moon was riding high in the cloudless heavens, now.  We sauntered carelessly and unthinkingly
to the edge of the lofty battlements of the citadel, and looked down--a vision!  And such a
vision!  Athens by moonlight!  The prophet that thought the splendors of the New Jerusalem
were revealed to him, surely saw this instead!  It lay in the level plain right under our feet--all
spread abroad like a picture--and we looked down upon it as we might have looked from a balloon.
We saw no semblance of a street, but every house, every window, every clinging vine, every
projection was as distinct and sharply marked as if the time were noon-day; and yet there was
no glare, no glitter, nothing harsh or repulsive--the noiseless city was flooded with the mellowest
light that ever streamed from the moon, and seemed like some living creature wrapped in peaceful
slumber.  On its further side was a little temple, whose delicate pillars and ornate front
glowed with a rich lustre that chained the eye like a spell; and nearer by, the palace of the
king reared its creamy walls out of the midst of a great garden of shrubbery that was flecked
all over with a random shower of amber lights --a spray of golden sparks that lost their brightness
in the glory of the moon, and glinted softly upon the sea of dark foliage like the pallid stars
of the milky-way.  Overhead the stately columns, majestic still in their ruin--under foot the
dreaming city--in the distance the silver sea --not on the broad earth is there an other picture
half so beautiful!

As we turned and moved again through the temple, I wished that the illustrious men who had
sat in it in the remote ages could visit it again and reveal themselves to our curious eyes--Plato,
Aristotle, Demosthenes, Socrates, Phocion, Pythagoras, Euclid, Pindar, Xenophon, Herodotus,
Praxiteles and Phidias, Zeuxis the painter.  What a constellation of celebrated names!  But
more than all, I wished that old Diogenes, groping so patiently with his lantern, searching
so zealously for one solitary honest man in all the world, might meander along and stumble
on our party.  I ought not to say it, may be, but still I suppose he would have put out his light.

We left the Parthenon to keep its watch over old Athens, as it had kept it for twenty-three
hundred years, and went and stood outside the walls of the citadel.  In the distance was the
ancient, but still almost perfect Temple of Theseus, and close by, looking to the west, was
the Bema, from whence Demosthenes thundered his philippics and fired the wavering patriotism
of his countrymen.  To the right was Mars Hill, where the Areopagus sat in ancient times and
where St. Paul defined his position, and below was the market-place where he "disputed daily"
with the gossip-loving Athenians.  We climbed the stone steps St. Paul ascended, and stood
in the square-cut place he stood in, and tried to recollect the Bible account of the matter--but
for certain reasons, I could not recall the words.  I have found them since:

     "Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred in
     him, when he saw the city wholly given up to idolatry.
                         * * * * * * * * *
     "And they took him and brought him unto Areopagus, saying, May we
     know what this new doctrine whereof thou speakest is?

It occurred to us, after a while, that if we wanted to get home before daylight betrayed us,
we had better be moving.  So we hurried away.  When far on our road, we had a parting view
of the Parthenon, with the moonlight streaming through its open colonnades and touching its
capitals with silver.  As it looked then, solemn, grand, and beautiful it will always remain
in our memories.

As we marched along, we began to get over our fears, and ceased to care much about quarantine
scouts or any body else.  We grew bold and reckless; and once, in a sudden burst of courage,
I even threw a stone at a dog.  It was a pleasant reflection, though, that I did not hit him,
because his master might just possibly have been a policeman.  Inspired by this happy failure,
my valor became utterly uncontrollable, and at intervals I absolutely whistled, though on a
moderate key.  But boldness breeds boldness, and shortly I plunged into a Vineyard, in the
full light of the moon, and captured a gallon of superb grapes, not even minding the presence
of a peasant who rode by on a mule.  Denny and Birch followed my example.

Now I had grapes enough for a dozen, but then Jackson was all swollen up with courage, too,
and he was obliged to enter a vineyard presently.  The first bunch he seized brought trouble.
A frowsy, bearded brigand sprang into the road with a shout, and flourished a musket in the
light of the moon!  We sidled toward the Piraeus--not running you understand, but only advancing
with celerity.  The brigand shouted again, but still we advanced.  It was getting late, and
we had no time to fool away on every ass that wanted to drivel Greek platitudes to us.  We
would just as soon have talked with him as not if we had not been in a hurry.  Presently Denny
said, "Those fellows are following us!"

We turned, and, sure enough, there they were--three fantastic pirates armed with guns.  We
slackened our pace to let them come up, and in the meantime I got out my cargo of grapes and
dropped them firmly but reluctantly into the shadows by the wayside.  But I was not afraid.
I only felt that it was not right to steal grapes.  And all the more so when the owner was
around--and not only around, but with his friends around also.  The villains came up and searched
a bundle Dr. Birch had in his hand, and scowled upon him when they found it had nothing in
it but some holy rocks from Mars Hill, and these were not contraband.  They evidently suspected
him of playing some wretched fraud upon them, and seemed half inclined to scalp the party.
But finally they dismissed us with a warning, couched in excellent Greek, I suppose, and dropped
tranquilly in our wake.  When they had gone three hundred yards they stopped, and we went on
rejoiced.  But behold, another armed rascal came out of the shadows and took their place, and
followed us two hundred yards.  Then he delivered us over to another miscreant, who emerged
from some mysterious place, and he in turn to another!  For a mile and a half our rear was
guarded all the while by armed men.  I never traveled in so much state before in all my life.

It was a good while after that before we ventured to steal any more grapes, and when we did
we stirred up another troublesome brigand, and then we ceased all further speculation in that
line.  I suppose that fellow that rode by on the mule posted all the sentinels, from Athens
to the Piraeus, about us.

Every field on that long route was watched by an armed sentinel, some of whom had fallen asleep,
no doubt, but were on hand, nevertheless.  This shows what sort of a country modern Attica
is--a community of questionable characters.  These men were not there to guard their possessions
against strangers, but against each other; for strangers seldom visit Athens and the Piraeus,
and when they do, they go in daylight, and can buy all the grapes they want for a trifle. 
The modern inhabitants are confiscators and falsifiers of high repute, if gossip speaks truly
concerning them, and I freely believe it does.

Just as the earliest tinges of the dawn flushed the eastern sky and turned the pillared Parthenon
to a broken harp hung in the pearly horizon, we closed our thirteenth mile of weary, round-about
marching, and emerged upon the sea-shore abreast the ships, with our usual escort of fifteen
hundred Piraean dogs howling at our heels.  We hailed a boat that was two or three hundred
yards from shore, and discovered in a moment that it was a police-boat on the lookout for any
quarantine-breakers that might chance to be abroad.  So we dodged--we were used to that by
this time--and when the scouts reached the spot we had so lately occupied, we were absent.
They cruised along the shore, but in the wrong direction, and shortly our own boat issued from
the gloom and took us aboard.  They had heard our signal on the ship.  We rowed noiselessly
away, and before the police-boat came in sight again, we were safe at home once more.

Four more of our passengers were anxious to visit Athens, and started half an hour after we
returned; but they had not been ashore five minutes till the police discovered and chased them
so hotly that they barely escaped to their boat again, and that was all.  They pursued the
enterprise no further.

We set sail for Constantinople to-day, but some of us little care for that.  We have seen all
there was to see in the old city that had its birth sixteen hundred years before Christ was
born, and was an old town before the foundations of Troy were laid--and saw it in its most
attractive aspect.  Wherefore, why should we worry?

Two other passengers ran the blockade successfully last night.  So we learned this morning.
They slipped away so quietly that they were not missed from the ship for several hours.  They
had the hardihood to march into the Piraeus in the early dusk and hire a carriage.  They ran
some danger of adding two or three months' imprisonment to the other novelties of their Holy
Land Pleasure Excursion.  I admire "cheek."--[Quotation from the Pilgrims.]--But they went
and came safely, and never walked a step.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

From Athens all through the islands of the Grecian Archipelago, we saw little but forbidding
sea-walls and barren hills, sometimes surmounted by three or four graceful columns of some
ancient temple, lonely and deserted--a fitting symbol of the desolation that has come upon
all Greece in these latter ages.  We saw no ploughed fields, very few villages, no trees or
grass or vegetation of any kind, scarcely, and hardly ever an isolated house.  Greece is a
bleak, unsmiling desert, without agriculture, manufactures or commerce, apparently.  What supports
its poverty-stricken people or its Government, is a mystery.

I suppose that ancient Greece and modern Greece compared, furnish the most extravagant contrast
to be found in history.  George I., an infant of eighteen, and a scraggy nest of foreign office
holders, sit in the places of Themistocles, Pericles, and the illustrious scholars and generals
of the Golden Age of Greece.  The fleets that were the wonder of the world when the Parthenon
was new, are a beggarly handful of fishing-smacks now, and the manly people that performed
such miracles of valor at Marathon are only a tribe of unconsidered slaves to-day.  The classic
Illyssus has gone dry, and so have all the sources of Grecian wealth and greatness.  The nation
numbers only eight hundred thousand souls, and there is poverty and misery and mendacity enough
among them to furnish forty millions and be liberal about it.  Under King Otho the revenues
of the State were five millions of dollars--raised from a tax of one-tenth of all the agricultural
products of the land (which tenth the farmer had to bring to the royal granaries on pack-mules
any distance not exceeding six leagues) and from extravagant taxes on trade and commerce. 
Out of that five millions the small tyrant tried to keep an army of ten thousand men, pay all
the hundreds of useless Grand Equerries in Waiting, First Grooms of the Bedchamber, Lord High
Chancellors of the Exploded Exchequer, and all the other absurdities which these puppy-kingdoms
indulge in, in imitation of the great monarchies; and in addition he set about building a white
marble palace to cost about five millions itself. The result was, simply: ten into five goes
no times and none over.  All these things could not be done with five millions, and Otho fell
into trouble.

The Greek throne, with its unpromising adjuncts of a ragged population of ingenious rascals
who were out of employment eight months in the year because there was little for them to borrow
and less to confiscate, and a waste of barren hills and weed-grown deserts, went begging for
a good while.  It was offered to one of Victoria's sons, and afterwards to various other younger
sons of royalty who had no thrones and were out of business, but they all had the charity to
decline the dreary honor, and veneration enough for Greece's ancient greatness to refuse to
mock her sorrowful rags and dirt with a tinsel throne in this day of her humiliation--till
they came to this young Danish George, and he took it. He has finished the splendid palace
I saw in the radiant moonlight the other night, and is doing many other things for the salvation
of Greece, they say.

We sailed through the barren Archipelago, and into the narrow channel they sometimes call the
Dardanelles and sometimes the Hellespont.  This part of the country is rich in historic reminiscences,
and poor as Sahara in every thing else.  For instance, as we approached the Dardanelles, we
coasted along the Plains of Troy and past the mouth of the Scamander; we saw where Troy had
stood (in the distance,) and where it does not stand now--a city that perished when the world
was young.  The poor Trojans are all dead, now.  They were born too late to see Noah's ark,
and died too soon to see our menagerie.  We saw where Agamemnon's fleets rendezvoused, and
away inland a mountain which the map said was Mount Ida.  Within the Hellespont we saw where
the original first shoddy contract mentioned in history was carried out, and the "parties of
the second part" gently rebuked by Xerxes.  I speak of the famous bridge of boats which Xerxes
ordered to be built over the narrowest part of the Hellespont (where it is only two or three
miles wide.) A moderate gale destroyed the flimsy structure, and the King, thinking that to
publicly rebuke the contractors might have a good effect on the next set, called them out before
the army and had them beheaded.  In the next ten minutes he let a new contract for the bridge.
It has been observed by ancient writers that the second bridge was a very good bridge.  Xerxes
crossed his host of five millions of men on it, and if it had not been purposely destroyed,
it would probably have been there yet.  If our Government would rebuke some of our shoddy contractors
occasionally, it might work much good.  In the Hellespont we saw where Leander and Lord Byron
swam across, the one to see her upon whom his soul's affections were fixed with a devotion
that only death could impair, and the other merely for a flyer, as Jack says. We had two noted
tombs near us, too.  On one shore slept Ajax, and on the other Hecuba.

We had water batteries and forts on both sides of the Hellespont, flying the crimson flag of
Turkey, with its white crescent, and occasionally a village, and sometimes a train of camels;
we had all these to look at till we entered the broad sea of Marmora, and then the land soon
fading from view, we resumed euchre and whist once more.

We dropped anchor in the mouth of the Golden Horn at daylight in the morning.  Only three or
four of us were up to see the great Ottoman capital.  The passengers do not turn out at unseasonable
hours, as they used to, to get the earliest possible glimpse of strange foreign cities. They
are well over that.  If we were lying in sight of the Pyramids of Egypt, they would not come
on deck until after breakfast, now-a-days.

The Golden Horn is a narrow arm of the sea, which branches from the Bosporus (a sort of broad
river which connects the Marmora and Black Seas,) and, curving around, divides the city in
the middle.  Galata and Pera are on one side of the Bosporus, and the Golden Horn; Stamboul
(ancient Byzantium) is upon the other.  On the other bank of the Bosporus is Scutari and other
suburbs of Constantinople.  This great city contains a million inhabitants, but so narrow are
its streets, and so crowded together are its houses, that it does not cover much more than
half as much ground as New York City.  Seen from the anchorage or from a mile or so up the
Bosporus, it is by far the handsomest city we have seen.  Its dense array of houses swells
upward from the water's edge, and spreads over the domes of many hills; and the gardens that
peep out here and there, the great globes of the mosques, and the countless minarets that meet
the eye every where, invest the metropolis with the quaint Oriental aspect one dreams of when
he reads books of eastern travel. Constantinople makes a noble picture.

But its attractiveness begins and ends with its picturesqueness.  From the time one starts
ashore till he gets back again, he execrates it.  The boat he goes in is admirably miscalculated
for the service it is built for.  It is handsomely and neatly fitted up, but no man could handle
it well in the turbulent currents that sweep down the Bosporus from the Black Sea, and few
men could row it satisfactorily even in still water. It is a long, light canoe (caique,) large
at one end and tapering to a knife blade at the other.  They make that long sharp end the bow,
and you can imagine how these boiling currents spin it about.  It has two oars, and sometimes
four, and no rudder.  You start to go to a given point and you run in fifty different directions
before you get there.  First one oar is backing water, and then the other; it is seldom that
both are going ahead at once.  This kind of boating is calculated to drive an impatient man
mad in a week.  The boatmen are the awkwardest, the stupidest, and the most unscientific on
earth, without question.

Ashore, it was--well, it was an eternal circus.  People were thicker than bees, in those narrow
streets, and the men were dressed in all the outrageous, outlandish, idolatrous, extravagant,
thunder-and-lightning costumes that ever a tailor with the delirium tremens and seven devils
could conceive of.  There was no freak in dress too crazy to be indulged in; no absurdity too
absurd to be tolerated; no frenzy in ragged diabolism too fantastic to be attempted.  No two
men were dressed alike. It was a wild masquerade of all imaginable costumes--every struggling
throng in every street was a dissolving view of stunning contrasts.  Some patriarchs wore awful
turbans, but the grand mass of the infidel horde wore the fiery red skull-cap they call a fez.
All the remainder of the raiment they indulged in was utterly indescribable.

The shops here are mere coops, mere boxes, bath-rooms, closets--any thing you please to call
them--on the first floor.  The Turks sit cross-legged in them, and work and trade and smoke
long pipes, and smell like--like Turks.  That covers the ground.  Crowding the narrow streets
in front of them are beggars, who beg forever, yet never collect any thing; and wonderful cripples,
distorted out of all semblance of humanity, almost; vagabonds driving laden asses; porters
carrying dry-goods boxes as large as cottages on their backs; peddlers of grapes, hot corn,
pumpkin seeds, and a hundred other things, yelling like fiends; and sleeping happily, comfortably,
serenely, among the hurrying feet, are the famed dogs of Constantinople; drifting noiselessly
about are squads of Turkish women, draped from chin to feet in flowing robes, and with snowy
veils bound about their heads, that disclose only the eyes and a vague, shadowy notion of their
features.  Seen moving about, far away in the dim, arched aisles of the Great Bazaar, they
look as the shrouded dead must have looked when they walked forth from their graves amid the
storms and thunders and earthquakes that burst upon Calvary that awful night of the Crucifixion.
A street in Constantinople is a picture which one ought to see once--not oftener.

And then there was the goose-rancher--a fellow who drove a hundred geese before him about the
city, and tried to sell them.  He had a pole ten feet long, with a crook in the end of it,
and occasionally a goose would branch out from the flock and make a lively break around the
corner, with wings half lifted and neck stretched to its utmost.  Did the goose-merchant get
excited?  No.  He took his pole and reached after that goose with unspeakable sang froid--took
a hitch round his neck, and "yanked" him back to his place in the flock without an effort.
He steered his geese with that stick as easily as another man would steer a yawl.  A few hours
afterward we saw him sitting on a stone at a corner, in the midst of the turmoil, sound asleep
in the sun, with his geese squatting around him, or dodging out of the way of asses and men.
We came by again, within the hour, and he was taking account of stock, to see whether any of
his flock had strayed or been stolen.  The way he did it was unique. He put the end of his
stick within six or eight inches of a stone wall, and made the geese march in single file between
it and the wall.  He counted them as they went by.  There was no dodging that arrangement.

If you want dwarfs--I mean just a few dwarfs for a curiosity--go to Genoa.  If you wish to
buy them by the gross, for retail, go to Milan. There are plenty of dwarfs all over Italy,
but it did seem to me that in Milan the crop was luxuriant.  If you would see a fair average
style of assorted cripples, go to Naples, or travel through the Roman States. But if you would
see the very heart and home of cripples and human monsters, both, go straight to Constantinople.
A beggar in Naples who can show a foot which has all run into one horrible toe, with one shapeless
nail on it, has a fortune--but such an exhibition as that would not provoke any notice in Constantinople.
The man would starve.  Who would pay any attention to attractions like his among the rare monsters
that throng the bridges of the Golden Horn and display their deformities in the gutters of
Stamboul?  O, wretched impostor!  How could he stand against the three-legged woman, and the
man with his eye in his cheek? How would he blush in presence of the man with fingers on his
elbow? Where would he hide himself when the dwarf with seven fingers on each hand, no upper
lip, and his under-jaw gone, came down in his majesty? Bismillah!  The cripples of Europe are
a delusion and a fraud.  The truly gifted flourish only in the by-ways of Pera and Stamboul.

That three-legged woman lay on the bridge, with her stock in trade so disposed as to command
the most striking effect--one natural leg, and two long, slender, twisted ones with feet on
them like somebody else's fore-arm.  Then there was a man further along who had no eyes, and
whose face was the color of a fly-blown beefsteak, and wrinkled and twisted like a lava-flow--and
verily so tumbled and distorted were his features that no man could tell the wart that served
him for a nose from his cheek-bones. In Stamboul was a man with a prodigious head, an uncommonly
long body, legs eight inches long and feet like snow-shoes.  He traveled on those feet and
his hands, and was as sway-backed as if the Colossus of Rhodes had been riding him.  Ah, a
beggar has to have exceedingly good points to make a living in Constantinople.  A blue-faced
man, who had nothing to offer except that he had been blown up in a mine, would be regarded
as a rank impostor, and a mere damaged soldier on crutches would never make a cent.  It would
pay him to get apiece of his head taken off, and cultivate a wen like a carpet sack.

The Mosque of St. Sophia is the chief lion of Constantinople.  You must get a firman and hurry
there the first thing.  We did that.  We did not get a firman, but we took along four or five
francs apiece, which is much the same thing.

I do not think much of the Mosque of St. Sophia.  I suppose I lack appreciation.  We will let
it go at that.  It is the rustiest old barn in heathendom.  I believe all the interest that
attaches to it comes from the fact that it was built for a Christian church and then turned
into a mosque, without much alteration, by the Mohammedan conquerors of the land.  They made
me take off my boots and walk into the place in my stocking-feet.  I caught cold, and got myself
so stuck up with a complication of gums, slime and general corruption, that I wore out more
than two thousand pair of boot-jacks getting my boots off that night, and even then some Christian
hide peeled off with them.  I abate not a single boot-jack.

