A considerable time passed by, and the princesses grew up to be the most beautiful girls that
could be seen far or near. Then a war began, and the king had to leave his home.

One day, while he was away at the seat of war, the three princesses sat at a window looking
at how the sun shone on the flowers in the garden. They felt that they would like very much
to go and play among the flowers, and they begged the guards to let them out for a little while
to walk in the garden. The guards refused, for they were afraid of the king, but the girls
begged of them so prettily and so earnestly that they could not long refuse them, so they let
them do as they wished. The princesses were delighted, and ran out into the garden, but their
pleasure was short-lived. Scarcely had they got into the open air when a cloud came down and
carried them off, and no one could find them again, though they searched the wide world over.

The whole of the people mourned, and the king, as you may imagine, was very much grieved when,
on his return home, he learned what had happened. However, there is an old saying, "What's
done cannot be undone," so the king had to let matters remain as they were. As no one could
advise him how to recover his daughters, the king caused proclamation to be made throughout
the land that whoever should bring them back to him from the power of the mountain-giants should
have one of them for his wife, and half the kingdom as a wedding present. As soon as this proclamation
was made in the neighbouring countries many young warriors went out, with servants and horses,
to look for the three princesses. There were at the king's court at that time two foreign princes
and they started off too, to see how fortunate they might be. They put on fine armour, and
took costly weapons, and they boasted of what they would do, and how they would never come
back until they had accomplished their purpose.

We will leave these two princes to wander here and there in their search, and look at what
was passing in another place. Deep down in the heart of a wild wood there dwelt at that time
an old woman who had an only son, who used daily to attend to his mother's three hogs. As the
lad roamed through the forest, he one day cut a little pipe to play on. He found much pleasure
in the music, and he played so well that the notes charmed all who heard him. The boy was well
built, of an honest heart, and feared nothing.

One day it chanced that, as he was sitting in the wood playing on his pipe, while his three
hogs grubbed among the roots of the pine-trees, a very old man came along. He had a beard so
long that it reached to his waist, and a large dog accompanied him. When the lad saw the dog
he said to himself--

"I wish I had a dog like that as a companion here in the wood. Then there would be no danger."

The old man knew what the boy thought, and he said--

"I have come to ask you to let me give you my dog for one of your hogs."

The lad was ready to close the bargain, and gave a gray hog in exchange for the big dog. As
he was going the old man said--

"I think you will be satisfied with your bargain. The dog is not like other dogs. His name
is Hold-fast, and if you tell him to hold, hold he will whatever it may be, were it even the
fiercest giant."

Then he departed, and the lad thought that for once, at all events, fortune had been kind to him.

When evening had come, the lad called his dog, and drove the hogs to his home in the forest.
When the old woman learnt how her son had given away the gray hog for a dog, she flew into
a great rage, and gave him a good beating. The lad begged her to be quiet, but it was of no
use, for she only seemed to get the more angry. When the boy saw that it was no good pleading,
he called to the dog--

"Hold fast."

