In the Church of S. Giovanni in the same city Donato made a tomb for Pope Giovanni Coscia,
who had been deposed from the Pontificate by the Council of Constance. This tomb he was commissioned
to make by Cosimo de' Medici, who was very much the friend of the said Coscia. He wrought therein
with his own hand the figure of the dead man in gilded bronze, together with the marble statues
of Hope and Charity that are there; and his pupil Michelozzo made the figure of Faith. In the
same church, opposite to this work, there is a wooden figure by the hand of Donato of S. Mary
Magdalene in Penitence, very beautiful and excellently wrought, showing her wasted away by
her fastings and abstinence, insomuch that it displays in all its parts an admirable perfection
of anatomical knowledge. On a column of granite in the Mercato Vecchio there is a figure of
Abundance in hard grey-stone by the hand of Donato, standing quite by itself, so well wrought
that it is consummately praised by craftsmen and by all good judges of art. The column on which
this statue is placed was formerly in S. Giovanni, where there are the others of granite supporting
the gallery within; it was removed and its place was taken by a fluted column, on which, in
the middle of that temple, there once stood the statue of Mars which was taken away when the
Florentines were converted to the faith of Jesus Christ. The same man, while still a youth,
made a figure of the Prophet Daniel in marble for the façade of S. Maria del Fiore, and afterwards
one of S. John the Evangelist seated, four braccia high, and clothed in a simple garment: which
figure is much extolled. On one corner of the same place, on the side that faces towards the
Via del Cocomero, there is an old man between two columns, more akin to the ancient manner
than any other work that there is to be seen by the hand of Donato, the head revealing the
thoughts that length of years brings to those who are exhausted by time and labour. Within
the said church, likewise, he made the ornament for the organ, which stands over the door of
the old sacristy, with those figures so boldly sketched, as it has been said, that they appear
to the eye to have actual life and movement. Wherefore it may be said of this man that he worked
as much with his judgment as with his hands, seeing that many things are wrought which appear
beautiful in the rooms where they are made, and afterwards, on being taken thence and set in
another place, in a different light or at a greater height, present a different appearance,
and turn out the contrary to what they appeared; whereas Donato made his figures in such a
manner, that in the room where he was working they did not appear half as good as they turned
out to be in the positions where they were placed. For the new sacristy of the same church
he made the design for those boys who uphold the festoons that go round the frieze, and likewise
the design for the figures that were wrought in the glass of the round window which is below
the cupola, namely, that one which contains the Coronation of Our Lady; which design is greatly
superior to those of the other round windows, as it is clearly evident. For S. Michele in Orto
in the said city he wrought the marble statue of S. Peter which is to be seen there, a most
masterly and admirable figure, for the Guild of Butchers; and for the Guild of Linen-manufacturers
he wrought the figure of S. Mark the Evangelist, which, after being commissioned to make it
in company with Filippo Brunelleschi, he finished by himself with the consent of Filippo. This
figure was wrought by Donato with so great judgment that its excellence was not recognized,
while it stood on the ground, by those who had no judgment, and the Consuls of that Guild were
inclined to refuse to have it put into place; whereupon Donato besought them to let him set
it on high, saying that he wished to work on it and to show them a different figure as the
result. His request being granted, he covered it up for a fortnight, and then uncovered it
without having otherwise touched it, filling everyone with wonder.

For the Guild of Armourers he made a most spirited figure of S. George in armour, in the head
of which there may be seen the beauty of youth, courage and valour in arms, and a proud and
terrible ardour; and there is a marvellous suggestion of life bursting out of the stone. It
is certain that no modern figure in marble has yet shown such vivacity and such spirit as nature
and art produced in this one by means of the hand of Donato. In the base that supports the
shrine enclosing that figure he wrought in marble the story of the Saint killing the Dragon,
in low-relief, wherein there is a horse that is much esteemed and greatly extolled; and in
the frontal he made a half-length figure of God the Father in low-relief. Opposite to the church
of the said oratory he wrought the marble shrine for the Mercatanzia, following the ancient
Order known as Corinthian, and departing entirely from the German manner; this shrine was meant
to contain two statues, but he refused to make them because he could not come to an agreement
about the price. After his death these figures were made in bronze by Andrea del Verrocchio,
as it will be told. For the main front of the Campanile of S. Maria del Fiore he wrought four
figures in marble, five braccia in height, of which the two in the middle are portrayed from
life, one being Francesco Soderini as a youth, and the other Giovanni di Barduccio Cherichini,
now called Il Zuccone.[21] The latter was held to be a very rare work and the most beautiful
that Donato ever made, and when he wished to take an oath that would command belief he was
wont to say, "By the faith that I place in my Zuccone"; and the while that he was working on
it, he would keep gazing at it and saying, "Speak, speak, plague take thee, speak!" Over the
door of the campanile, on the side facing the Canon's house, he made Abraham about to sacrifice
Isaac, with another Prophet: and these figures were placed between two other statues.

[Footnote 21: I.e., Bald-head.]

For the Signoria of that city he made a casting in metal which was placed under an arch of
their Loggia in the Piazza, representing Judith cutting off the head of Holofernes; a work
of great excellence and mastery, which, if one considers the simplicity of the garments and
aspect of Judith on the surface, reveals very clearly below the surface the great spirit of
that woman and the assistance given to her by God, even as one sees the effect of wine and
sleep in the expression of Holofernes, and death in his limbs, which have lost all life and
are shown cold and limp. This work was so well executed by Donato that the casting came out
delicate and very beautiful, and it was afterwards finished so excellently that it is a very
great marvel to behold. The base, likewise, which is a baluster of granite, simple in design,
appears full of grace and presents an aspect pleasing to the eye. He was so well satisfied
with this work that he deigned to place his name on it, which he had not done on the others;
and it is seen in these words, "Donatelli opus." In the courtyard of the Palace of the said
Signori there is a life-size David, nude and in bronze. Having cut off the head of Goliath,
he is raising one foot and placing it on him, holding a sword in his right hand. This figure
is so natural in its vivacity and its softness, that it is almost impossible for craftsmen
to believe that it was not moulded on the living form. This statue once stood in the courtyard
of the house of the Medici, but it was transported to the said place on the exile of Cosimo.
In our own day Duke Cosimo, having made a fountain on the spot occupied by this statue, had
it removed, and it is being kept for a very large courtyard that he intends to make at the
back of the palace, that is, where the lions formerly stood. In the hall where there is the
clock of Lorenzo della Volpaia, on the left, there is a very beautiful David in marble; between
his legs, under his feet, he has the head of the dead Goliath, and in his hand he holds the
sling wherewith he slew him. In the first courtyard of the house of the Medici there are eight
medallions of marble, wherein there are copies of ancient cameos and of the reverse sides of
medals, with certain scenes, all made by him and very beautiful, which are built into the frieze
between the windows and the architrave above the arches of the loggie. In like manner he restored
an ancient statue of Marsyas in white marble, which was placed at the entrance of the garden;
and a great number of ancient heads, which were placed over the doors, were restored and embellished
by him with wings and diamonds (the emblem of Cosimo), wrought very well in stucco. He made
a very lovely vessel of granite, which poured forth water, and he wrought a similar one, which
also pours forth water, for the garden of the Pazzi in Florence. In the said Palace of the
Medici there are Madonnas of marble and bronze made in low-relief, besides some scenes in marble
with most beautiful figures, marvellous in their flat-relief. So great was the love that Cosimo
bore to the talent of Donato that he kept him continually at work, and Donato, on the other
hand, bore so great love to Cosimo that he could divine his patron's every wish from the slightest
sign, and obeyed him in all things.

It is said that a Genoese merchant caused Donato to make a lifesize head of bronze, which was
very beautiful and also very light, because it had to be carried to a great distance; and that
the commission for this work came to him through the recommendation of Cosimo. Now, when the
head was finished and the merchant came to pay for it, it appeared to him that Donato was asking
too much; wherefore the matter was referred to Cosimo, who had the head carried to the upper
court of the palace and placed between the battlements that overlook the street, to the end
that it might be seen better. When Cosimo sought to settle the difference, he found the offer
of the merchant very far from the demand of Donato, and he turned round and said that it was
too little. Whereupon the merchant, thinking it too much, said that Donato had wrought it in
a month or little more, and that this meant a gain of more than half a florin a day. Donato,
thinking this too much of an insult, turned round in anger and said to the merchant that in
the hundredth part of an hour he would have been able to spoil the value of a year's labour;
and giving the head a push, he sent it flying straightway into the street below, where it broke
into a thousand pieces; saying to him that this showed that he was more used to bargaining
for beans than for statues. Wherefore the merchant, regretting his meanness, offered to give
him double the sum if he would make another; but neither his promises nor the entreaties of
Cosimo could induce Donato to make it again. In the houses of the Martelli there are many scenes
in marble and in bronze; among others, a David three braccia high, with many other works presented
by him as a free gift to that family in proof of the devotion and love that he bore them; above
all, a S. John of marble, made by him in the round and three braccia high, a very rare work,
which is to-day in the house of the heirs of Ruberto Martelli. With regard to this work, a
legal agreement was made to the effect that it should be neither pledged, nor sold, nor given
away, without heavy penalties, as a testimony and token of the affection shown by them to Donato,
and by him to them out of gratitude that he had learnt his art through the protection and the
opportunities that he received from them.

He also made a tomb of marble for an Archbishop, which was sent to Naples and is in S. Angelo
di Seggio di Nido; in this tomb there are three figures in the round that support the sarcophagus
with their heads, and on the sarcophagus itself is a scene in low-relief, so beautiful that
it commands infinite praise. In the house of the Count of Matalone, in the same city, there
is the head of a horse by the hand of Donato, so beautiful that many take it for an antique.
In the township of Prato he wrought the marble pulpit where the Girdle is shown, in which,
in several compartments, he carved a dance of children so beautiful and so admirable, that
he may be said to have demonstrated the perfection of his art no less in this work than in
his others. To support this pulpit, moreover, he made two capitals of bronze, one of which
is still there, while the other was carried away by the Spaniards who sacked that district.

It came to pass about this time that the Signoria of Venice, hearing of his fame, sent for
him to the end that he might make the monument of Gattamelata in the city of Padua; wherefore
he went there right willingly and made the bronze horse that is on the Piazza di S. Antonio,
wherein are perceived the panting and neighing of the horse, with great spirit and pride, most
vividly expressed by his art, in the figure of the rider. And Donato proved himself such a
master in the proportions and excellence of so great a casting, that he can truly bear comparison
with any ancient craftsman in movement, design, art, proportion, and diligence; wherefore it
not only astonished all who saw it then, but continues to astonish every person who sees it
at the present day. The Paduans, moved by this, did their utmost to make him their fellow-citizen,
and sought to detain him with every sort of endearment. In order to keep him in their midst,
they commissioned him to make the stories of S. Anthony of Padua on the predella of the high-altar
in the Church of the Friars Minor, which are in low-relief, wrought with so great judgment,
that the most excellent masters of that art stand marvelling and amazed before them, as they
consider their beautiful and varied compositions, with the great abundance of extraordinary
figures and diminishing perspectives. Very beautiful, likewise, are the Maries that he made
on the altar-dossal, lamenting the Dead Christ. In the house of one of the Counts Capodilista
he wrought the skeleton of a horse in wood, which is still to be seen to-day without the neck;
wherein the various parts are joined together with so much method, that, if one considers the
manner of this work, one can judge of the ingenuity of his brain and the greatness of his mind.
In a convent of nuns he made a S. Sebastian in wood at the request of a chaplain, a Florentine,
who was their friend and an intimate of his own. This man brought him a figure of that Saint
that they had, old and clumsy, beseeching him to make the new one like it. Wherefore Donato
strove to imitate it in order to please the chaplain and the nuns, but, although he imitated
it, clumsy as it was, he could not help showing in his own the usual excellence of his art.
Together with this figure he made many others in clay and in stucco, and on one end of an old
piece of marble that the said nuns had in their garden he carved a very beautiful Madonna.
Throughout that whole city, likewise, there are innumerable works by his hand, by reason of
which he was held by the Paduans to be a marvel and was praised by every man of understanding;
but he determined to return to Florence, saying that if he remained any longer in Padua he
would forget everything that he knew, being so greatly praised there by all, and that he was
glad to return to his own country, where he would gain nothing but censure, since such censure
would urge him to study and would enable him to attain to greater glory. Having departed from
Padua, therefore, he returned by way of Venice, where, as a mark of his friendliness towards
the Florentine people, he made them a present of a S. John the Baptist, wrought by him in wood
with very great diligence and study, for their chapel in the Church of the Friars Minor. In
the city of Faenza he carved a S. John and a S. Jerome in wood, which are no less esteemed
than his other works.

Afterwards, having returned to Tuscany, he made a marble tomb, with a very beautiful scene,
in the Pieve of Montepulciano, and a lavatory of marble, on which Andrea Verrocchio also worked,
in the Sacristy of S. Lorenzo in Florence; and in the house of Lorenzo della Stufa he wrought
some heads and figures that are very spirited and vivacious. Then, departing from Florence,
he betook himself to Rome, in order to try to imitate the antiques to the best of his ability;
and during this time, while studying these, he made a tabernacle of the Sacrament in stone,
which is to be seen in S. Pietro at the present day. Passing through Siena on his way back
to Florence, he undertook to make a door of bronze for the Baptistery of S. Giovanni; and he
had already made the wooden model, and the wax moulds were almost finished and successfully
covered with the outer mould, ready for the casting, when there arrived, on his way back from
Rome, one Bernardetto di Mona Papera, a Florentine goldsmith and an intimate friend of Donato,
who wrought upon him so strongly both with words and in other ways, either for some business
of his own or for some other reason, that he brought him back to Florence; wherefore that work
remained unfinished, nay, not begun. There only remained in the Office of Works of the Duomo
in that city a S. John the Baptist in bronze by his hand, with the right arm missing from the
elbow downwards; and this Donato is said to have done because he had not been paid in full.

Having returned to Florence, therefore, he wrought the Sacristy of S. Lorenzo in stucco for
Cosimo de' Medici, making four medallions on the pendentives of the vault containing stories
of the Evangelists, with grounds in perspective, partly painted and partly in low-relief. And
in the said place he made two very beautiful little doors of bronze in low-relief, with the
Apostles, Martyrs, and Confessors; and above these he made some flat niches, one containing
a S. Laurence and a S. Stephen, and the other S. Cosimo and S. Damiano. In the transept of
the church he executed four saints in stucco, each five braccia high, which are wrought in
a masterly manner. He also designed the bronze pulpits that contain the Passion of Christ,
a work displaying design, force, invention, and an abundance of figures and buildings; but
these his old age prevented him from executing, and his pupil Bertoldo finished them and brought
them to the utmost perfection. For S. Maria del Fiore he made two colossal figures of brick
and stucco, which are placed by way of ornament without the church, at the corners of the chapels.
Over the door of S. Croce there is still to be seen a S. Louis wrought by him in bronze, five
braccia high; for this someone criticized him, saying that it was stupid and perhaps the least
excellent work that he had ever made, and he answered that he had made it so of set purpose,
seeing that the Saint had been stupid to give up his throne and become a monk. The same man
made the head of the wife of the said Cosimo de' Medici in bronze, and this head is preserved
in the guardaroba of the Lord Duke Cosimo, wherein there are many other works in bronze and
marble by the hand of Donato; among others, a Madonna with the Child in her arms, sunk in the
marble in flat-relief, which is the most beautiful work that it is possible to see, and the
rather as it is surrounded by a border of scenes done in miniature by Fra Bartolommeo,[22]
which are admirable, as it will be told in the proper place. The said Lord Duke has a very
beautiful, nay, miraculous Crucifix in bronze, by the hand of Donato, in his study, wherein
there are innumerable rare antiquities and most beautiful medals. In the same guardaroba there
is a bronze panel containing the Passion of Our Lord in low-relief, with a great number of
figures; and in another panel, also in metal, there is another Crucifixion. In like manner,
in the house of the heirs of Jacopo Capponi, who was an excellent citizen and a true gentleman,
there is a marble panel with the Madonna in half-relief, which is held to be a very rare work.
Messer Antonio de' Nobili, who was Treasurer to his Excellency, had in his house a marble panel
by the hand of Donato, in which there is a half-length Madonna in low-relief, so beautiful
that the said Messer Antonio valued it as much as all his possessions; nor is it less valued
by his son Giulio, a youth of singular goodness and judgment, a friend to lovers of art and
to all men of excellence. In the house of Giovan Battista d'Agnol Doni, a gentleman of Florence,
there is a Mercury of metal in the round by the hand of Donato, one braccio and a half in height
and clothed in a certain bizarre manner; which work is truly very beautiful, and no less rare
than the others that adorn his most beautiful house. Bartolommeo Gondi, of whom we have spoken
in the Life of Giotto, has a Madonna in half-relief by the hand of Donato, wrought with so
great love and diligence that it is not possible to see anything better, or to imagine the
fancifulness which he gave to her headdress and the loveliness that he put into the garments
which she is wearing. In like manner, Messer Lelio Torelli, First Auditor and Secretary to
our Lord the Duke, and no less devoted a lover of all the honourable sciences, arts, and professions,
than he is excellent as a jurist, has a marble panel of Our Lady by the hand of the same Donatello.

[Footnote 22: Vasari says Fra Ber.... Fra Bernardo has been suggested, but nothing is known
of him. It is more reasonable to read Fra Bartolommeo (della Porta).]

But if one were to give a complete account of his life and of the works that he made, it would
be a far longer story than it is our intention to give in writing the Lives of our craftsmen,
seeing that he put his hand not only to great things, of which there has been enough said,
but also to the smallest things of art, making the arms of families on the chimneypieces and
on the fronts of the houses of citizens, a most beautiful example of which may be seen in the
house of the Sommai, which is opposite to that of the baker Della Vacca. For the family of
the Martelli, moreover, he made a coffin in the form of a cradle wrought of wicker-work, to
serve for a tomb; but it is beneath the Church of S. Lorenzo, because no tombs of any kind
are to be seen above, save only the epitaph of the tomb of Cosimo de' Medici, and even that
one has its entrance below, like the others.

It is said that Simone, the brother of Donato, having wrought the model for the tomb of Pope
Martin V, sent for Donato to the end that he might see it before it was cast. Going to Rome,
therefore, Donato found himself in that city at the very moment when the Emperor Sigismund
was there to receive the crown from Pope Eugenius IV; wherefore he was forced, in company with
Simone, to occupy himself with making the magnificent preparations for that festival, whereby
he acquired very great fame and honour.

In the guardaroba of Signor Guidobaldo, Duke of Urbino, there is a very beautiful head of marble
by the hand of the same man, and it is believed that it was given to the ancestors of the said
Duke by the Magnificent Giuliano de' Medici, at the time when he was staying at that Court,
which was full of most cultured gentlemen. In short, the talent of Donato was such, and he
was so admirable in all his actions, that he may be said to have been one of the first to give
light, by his practice, judgment, and knowledge, to the art of sculpture and of good design
among the moderns; and he deserves all the more commendation, because in his day, apart from
the columns, sarcophagi, and triumphal arches, there were no antiquities revealed above the
earth. And it was through him, chiefly, that there arose in Cosimo de' Medici the desire to
introduce into Florence the antiquities that were and are in the house of the Medici; all of
which he restored with his own hand. He was most liberal, gracious, and courteous, and more
careful for his friends than for himself; nor did he give thought to money, but kept his in
a basket suspended by a cord from the ceiling, wherefore all his workmen and friends could
take what they needed without saying a word to him. He passed his old age most joyously, and,
having become decrepit, he had to be succoured by Cosimo and by others of his friends, being
no longer able to work. It is said that Cosimo, being at the point of death, recommended him
to the care of his son Piero, who, as a most diligent executor of his father's wishes, gave
him a farm at Cafaggiuolo, which produced enough to enable him to live in comfort. At this
Donato made great rejoicing, thinking that he was thus more than secure from the danger of
dying of hunger; but he had not held it a year before he returned to Piero and gave it back
to him by public contract, declaring that he refused to lose his peace of mind by having to
think of household cares and listen to the importunity of the peasant, who kept pestering him
every third day--now because the wind had unroofed his dovecote, now because his cattle had
been seized by the Commune for taxes, and now because a storm had robbed him of his wine and
his fruit. He was so weary and disgusted with all this, that he would rather die of hunger
than have to think of so many things. Piero laughed at the simplicity of Donato; and in order
to deliver him from this torment, he accepted the farm (for on this Donato insisted), and assigned
him an allowance of the same value or more from his own bank, to be paid in cash, which was
handed over to him every week in the due proportion owing to him; whereby he was greatly contented.
Thus, as a servant and friend of the house of Medici, he lived happily and free from care for
the rest of his life. When he had reached the age of eighty-three, however, he was so palsied
that he could no longer work in any fashion, and took to spending all his time in bed in a
poor little house that he had in the Via del Cocomero, near the Nunnery of S. Niccolò; where,
growing worse from day to day and wasting away little by little, he died on December 13, 1466.
He was buried in the Church of S. Lorenzo, near the tomb of Cosimo, as he had himself directed,
to the end that his dead body might be near him, even as he had been ever near him in spirit
when alive.

His death caused great grief to his fellow-citizens, to the craftsmen, and to all who knew
him when living. Wherefore, in order to honour him more after death than they had done in his
life, they gave him most honourable obsequies in the aforesaid church, and he was accompanied
to the grave by all the painters, architects, sculptors, and goldsmiths, and by almost all
the people of that city, which continued for a long time to compose in his honour various kinds
of verses in diverse tongues, whereof it must suffice us to cite the few that are to be read below.

But before I come to the epitaphs, it will not be amiss to relate the following story of him
as well. When he had fallen sick, and only a little before his death, certain of his relatives
went to visit him; and after they had greeted him, as is customary, and condoled with him,
they said that it was his duty to leave them a farm that he had in the district of Prato, although
it was small and produced a very meagre income; and they prayed him straitly to do it. Hearing
this, Donato, who showed something of the good in all that he did, said to them, "I cannot
satisfy you, my kinsmen, because I intend to leave it--as it appears to me reasonable--to the
peasant, who has always worked it and endured great labour thereby, and not to you, who, without
having bestowed upon it anything more profitable than the thought of possessing it, expect
me to leave it to you because of this your visit! Go, and may God bless you!" Of a truth such
relatives, who have no love unconnected with advantage or with the hope of it, should be ever
treated in this fashion. Sending therefore for a notary, he left the said farm to the labourer
who had always worked it, and who perchance had behaved better to him in his need than those
relatives had done. His art-possessions he left to his pupils, namely, Bertoldo, a sculptor
of Florence, who imitated him closely enough, as may be seen from a very beautiful battle between
men on horseback, wrought in bronze, which is now in the guardaroba of the Lord Duke Cosimo;
Nanni d'Antonio di Banco, who died before him; and Rossellino, Desiderio, and Vellano da Padova.
In short, it may be said that every man who has sought to do good work in relief since the
death of Donato, has been his disciple. He was resolute in draughtsmanship, and he made his
drawings with such mastery and boldness that they have no equals, as may be seen in my book,
wherein I have figures drawn by his hand, both clothed and nude, animals that make all who
see them marvel, and other most beautiful things of that kind. His portrait was made by Paolo
Uccello, as it has been said in his Life. The epitaphs are as follows:

   SCULTURA H.M. A FLORENTINIS FIERI VOLUIT DONATELLO, UTPOTE
   HOMINI, QUI EI, QUOD JAMDIU OPTIMIS ARTIFICIBUS MULTISQUE SÆCULIS
   TUM NOBILITATIS TUM NOMINIS ACQUISITUM FUERAT, INJURIAVE TEMPOR.
   PERDIDERAT IPSA, IPSE UNUS UNA VITA INFINITISQUE OPERIBUS CUMULATISS.
   RESTITUERIT: ET PATRIÆ BENEMERENTI HUJUS RESTITUTÆ
                 VIRTUTIS PALMAM REPORTARIT.

   EXCUDIT NEMO SPIRANTIA MOLLIUS ÆRA;
     VERA CANO; CERNES MARMORA VIVA LOQUI.
   GRÆCORUM SILEAT PRISCA ADMIRABILIS ÆTAS
     COMPEDIBUS STATUAS CONTINUISSE RHODON.
   NECTERE NAMQUE MAGIS FUERANT HÆC VINCULA DIGNA
         ISTIUS EGREGIAS ARTIFICIS STATUAS.

   QUANTO CON DOTTA MANO ALLA SCULTURA
     GIÀ FECER MOLTI, OR SOL DONATO HA FATTO;
     RENDUTO HA VITA A' MARMI, AFFETTO, ED ATTO;
   CHE PIÙ, SE NON PARLAR, PUÒ DAR NATURA?

The world remained so full of his works, that it may be affirmed right truly that no craftsman
ever worked more than he did. For, delighting in every kind of work, he put his hand to anything,
without considering whether it was of little or of great value. Nevertheless it was indispensable
to sculpture, this vast activity of Donato in making figures in every kind of relief, full,
half, low, and the lowest; because, whereas in the good times of the ancient Greeks and Romans
it was by means of many that it became perfect, he alone by the multitude of his works brought
it back to marvellous perfection in our own age. Wherefore craftsmen should trace the greatness
of this art rather to him than to any man born in modern times, seeing that, besides rendering
the difficulties of the art easy, in the multitude of his works he combined together invention,
design, practice, judgment, and every other quality that ever can or should be looked for in
a divine genius. Donato was very resolute and ready, executing all his works with consummate
facility, and he always accomplished much more than he had promised.

He left all his work to be completed by his pupil Bertoldo, and particularly the bronze pulpits
of S. Lorenzo, which were afterwards finished in great part by him, and brought to the state
in which they are seen in the said church.

I will not forbear to say that the most learned and very reverend Don Vincenzo Borghini, of
whom mention has been made above with regard to some other matter, has collected into a large
book innumerable drawings by excellent painters and sculptors, both ancient and modern; and
on the ornamental borders of two leaves opposite to each other, which contain drawings by the
hand of Donato and of Michelagnolo Buonarroti, he has written, with much judgment, these two
Greek epigrams; on Donato's, "[Greek: ê Dônatos Bonarhrôtizei]," and on Michelagnolo's, "[Greek:
ê Bonarhrôtos Dônatizei]"; which mean in Latin, "Aut Donatus Bonarrotum exprimit et refert;
aut Bonarrotus Donatum," and in our own tongue, "Either the spirit of Donato works in Buonarroto,
or that of Buonarroto began by working in Donato."

MICHELOZZO MICHELOZZI

LIFE OF MICHELOZZO MICHELOZZI

SCULPTOR AND ARCHITECT OF FLORENCE

If every man who lives in this world were to realize that he may have to live when he is no
longer able to work, there would not be so many reduced to begging in their old age for that
which they consumed without any restraint in their youth, when their large and abundant gains,
blinding their true judgment, made them spend more than was necessary and much more than was
expedient. For, seeing how coldly a man is looked upon who has fallen from wealth to poverty,
every man should strive--honestly, however, and maintaining the proper mean--to avoid having
to beg in his old age. And whosoever will act like Michelozzo--who did not imitate his master
Donato in this respect, although he did in his virtues--will live honourably all the course
of his life, and will not be forced in his last years to go about miserably hunting for the
wherewithal to live.

Now Michelozzo applied himself in his youth to sculpture under Donatello, and also to design;
and although he realized their difficulties, nevertheless he went on ever practising so diligently
with clay, with wax, and with marble, that he ever showed ability and great talent in the works
that he made afterwards. There was one art in which he surpassed many and even his own self,
for, after Brunellesco, he was held to be the most methodical architect of his times, and the
one who was best able to arrange and contrive palaces, convents, and houses for human habitation,
and who designed them with the greatest judgment, as will be told in the proper place. Of this
man Donatello availed himself for many years, because he was very well practised in working
marble and in the business of casting in bronze; of which we have proof in a tomb in S. Giovanni
at Florence (which was made by Donatello, as it has been said, for Pope Giovanni Coscia), since
the greater part was executed by Michelozzo; and there we can see a very beautiful marble statue
by his hand, two braccia and a half in height, representing Faith (in company with one of Hope
and one of Charity made by Donatello, of the same size), which does not suffer by comparison
with the others. Moreover, above the door of the sacristy and the Office of Works, opposite
to S. Giovanni, Michelozzo made a little S. John in full-relief, wrought with diligence, which
was much extolled.

Michelozzo was so intimate with Cosimo de' Medici that the latter, recognizing his genius,
caused him to make the model for the house and palace at the corner of the Via Larga, beside
S. Giovannino; for he thought that the one made by Filippo di Ser Brunellesco, as it has been
said, was too sumptuous and magnificent, and more likely to stir up envy among his fellow-citizens
than to confer grandeur or adornment on the city, or bring comfort to himself. Wherefore, being
pleased with the model that Michelozzo had made, he had the building brought to completion
under his direction in the manner that we see at the present day, with all the beautiful and
useful arrangements and graceful adornments that are seen therein, which have majesty and grandeur
in their simplicity; and Michelozzo deserves all the greater praise in that this was the first
palace which was built in that city on modern lines, and which was divided up into rooms both
useful and most beautiful. The cellars are excavated to more than half their depth underground,
namely, four braccia below, with three above for the sake of light; and there are also wine-cellars
and store-rooms. On the ground-floor there are two courtyards with magnificent loggie, on which
open saloons, chambers, antechambers, studies, closets, stove-rooms, kitchens, wells, and staircases
both secret and public, all most convenient. On each floor there are apartments with accommodation
for a whole family, with all the conveniences that are proper not only to a private citizen,
such as Cosimo then was, but even to the most splendid and most honourable of Kings; wherefore
in our own times Kings, Emperors, Popes, and all the most illustrious Princes of Europe have
been comfortably lodged there, to the infinite credit both of the magnificence of Cosimo and
of the excellent ability of Michelozzo in architecture.

In the year 1433, when Cosimo was driven into exile, Michelozzo, who loved him very greatly
and was most faithful to him, accompanied him of his own free will to Venice and insisted on
remaining with him all the time that he stayed there; and in that city, besides many designs
and models that he made for private dwellings and public buildings and decorations for the
friends of Cosimo and for many gentlemen, he built, at the command and expense of Cosimo, the
library of the Monastery of S. Giorgio Maggiore, a seat of the Black Friars of S. Justina;
and this was not only finished with regard to walls, book-shelves, wood-work, and other adornments,
but was also filled with many books. Such was the occupation and amusement of Cosimo during
that exile, from which he was recalled to his country in the year 1434; whereupon he returned
almost in triumph, and Michelozzo with him. Now, while Michelozzo was in Florence, the Palazzo
Pubblico della Signoria began to threaten to collapse, for some columns in the courtyard were
giving way, either because there was too much weight pressing on them, or because their foundations
were weak and awry, or even perchance because they were made of pieces badly joined and put
together. Whatever may have been the reason, the matter was put into the hands of Michelozzo,
who accepted the undertaking willingly, because he had provided against a similar peril near
S. Barnaba in Venice, in the following manner. A gentleman had a house that was in danger of
falling down, and he entrusted the matter to Michelozzo; wherefore he--according to what Michelagnolo
Buonarroti once told me--caused a column to be made in secret, and prepared a number of props;
and hiding everything in a boat, into which he entered together with some builders, in one
night he propped up the house and replaced the column. Michelozzo, therefore, emboldened by
this experience, averted the danger from the palace, doing honour both to himself and to those
by whose favour he had received such a charge; and he refounded and rebuilt the columns in
the manner wherein they stand to-day. First he made a stout framework of props and thick beams
standing upright to support the centres of the arches, made of nut-wood, and upholding the
vaulting, so that this came to support equally the weight that was previously borne by the
columns; then, little by little removing those that were made of pieces badly joined together,
he replaced them with others made of pieces and wrought with diligence, in such a manner that
the building did not suffer in any way and has never moved a hair's breadth. And in order that
his columns might be known from the others, he made some of them at the corners with eight
sides, with capitals that have the foliage carved in the modern fashion, and some round; and
all are very easily distinguished from the old columns that Arnolfo made formerly. Afterwards,
by the advice of Michelozzo, it was ordained by those who then governed the city that the arches
of those columns should be unburdened and relieved of the weight of the walls that rested upon
them; that the whole courtyard should be rebuilt from the arches upwards, with a row of windows
in modern fashion, similar to those that he had made for Cosimo in the courtyard of the Palace
of the Medici; and that designs in rustic-work should be carved on the walls, for the reception
of those golden lilies that are still seen there at the present day. All this Michelozzo did
with great promptitude; and on the second tier, directly above the windows of the said courtyard,
he made some round windows (so as to have them different from the aforesaid windows), to give
light to the rooms on that floor, which are over those of the first floor, where there is now
the Sala de' Dugento. The third floor, where the Signori and the Gonfalonier lived, he made
more ornate, and on the side towards S. Piero Scheraggio he arranged a series of apartments
for the Signori, who had previously slept all together in one and the same room. These apartments
consisted of eight for the Signori and a larger one for the Gonfalonier, and they all opened
on a corridor which had windows overlooking the courtyard. Above this he made another series
of commodious rooms for the household of the Palace, in one of which, used to-day as the Treasury,
there is a portrait by the hand of Giotto of Charles, Duke of Calabria, son of King Robert,
kneeling before a Madonna. There, also, he made apartments for the bailiffs, ushers, trumpeters,
musicians, pipers, mace-bearers, court-servants, and heralds, with all the other apartments
that are required in such a palace. On the upper part of the gallery, moreover, he made a stone
cornice that went right round the courtyard, and beside it a water-cistern that was filled
by the rains, to make some artificial fountains play at certain times. Michelozzo also directed
the restoration of the chapel wherein Mass is heard, and beside it many rooms, with very rich
ceilings painted with golden lilies on a ground of blue. He had other ceilings made both for
the upper and the lower rooms of the Palace, covering up all the old ceilings that had been
made before in the ancient manner. In short, he gave it all the perfection that was demanded
by so great a building; and he contrived to convey the water from the wells right up to the
highest floor, to which it could be drawn up by means of a wheel more easily than was usual.
One thing alone the genius of Michelozzo could not remedy, namely, the public staircase, because
it was badly conceived from the beginning, badly situated, awkwardly built, steep, and without
lights, while from the first floor upwards the steps were of wood. He laboured to such purpose,
however, that he made a flight of round steps at the entrance of the courtyard, and a door
with pilasters of hard-stone and most beautiful capitals carved by his hand, besides a well-designed
cornice with a double architrave, in the frieze of which he placed all the arms of the Commune.
And what is more, he made the whole staircase of hard-stone up to the floor where the Signori
lived, fortifying it at the top and half-way up with a portcullis at each point, in case of
tumults; and at the head of the staircase he made a door which was called the "catena,"[23]
beside which there was ever standing an usher, who opened or closed it according as he was
commanded by those in authority. He strengthened the tower of the campanile, which had cracked
by reason of the weight of that part which stands out over space on corbels on the side towards
the Piazza, with very stout bands of iron. Finally, he improved and restored that Palace so
greatly, that he was therefore commended by the whole city and made, besides other rewards,
a member of the College, which is one of the most honourable magistracies in Florence. And
if it should appear to anyone that I have perchance spoken at greater length about this building
than was needful, I deserve to be excused, because--after having shown in the Life of Arnolfo,
in connection with its original erection, which was in the year 1298, that it was built out
of the square and wholly wanting in reasonable proportion, with unequal columns in the courtyard,
arches both large and small, inconvenient stairs, and rooms awry and badly proportioned--it
was necessary for me to show also to what condition it was brought by the intellect and judgment
of Michelozzo; although even he did not arrange it in such a manner that it could be inhabited
comfortably, without very great inconvenience and discomfort. Finally, when the Lord Duke Cosimo
came to occupy it in the year 1538, his Excellency began to bring it into better form; but
since those architects who served the Duke for many years in that work were never able to grasp
or to carry out his conception, he determined to see whether he could effect the restoration
without spoiling the old part, in which there was no little of the good; giving better order,
convenience, and proportion, according to the plan that he had in mind, to the awkward and
inconvenient stairs and apartments.

[Footnote 23: Chain.]

Sending to Rome, therefore, for Giorgio Vasari, painter and architect of Arezzo, who was working
for Pope Julius III, he commissioned him not only to put in order the rooms that he had caused
to be begun in the upper part of the side opposite to the Corn Market, which were out of the
straight with regard to the ground-plan, but also to consider whether the interior of the Palace
could not, without spoiling the work already done, be brought to such a form that it might
be possible to go all over it, from one part to another and from one apartment to another,
by means of staircases both secret and public, with an ascent as easy as possible. Thereupon,
while the said rooms, already begun, were being adorned with gilded ceilings and scenes painted
in oil, and with pictures in fresco on the walls, and others were being wrought in stucco,
Giorgio took a tracing of the ground-plan right round the whole of the Palace, both the new
part and the old; and then, having arranged with no small labour and study for the execution
of all that he intended to do, he began to bring it little by little into a good form, and
to unite, almost without spoiling any of the work already done, the disconnected rooms, which
previously varied in height even on the same floor, some being high and others low. But in
order that the Duke might see the design of the whole, in the space of six months he had made
a well-proportioned wooden model of the whole of that pile, which has the form and extent rather
of a fortress than of a palace. According to this model, which gained the approval of the Duke,
the building was united and many commodious rooms were made, as well as convenient staircases,
both public and secret, which give access to all the floors; and in this manner a burden was
removed from the halls, which were formerly like public streets, for it had been impossible
to ascend to the upper floors without passing through them. The whole was magnificently adorned
with varied and diverse pictures, and finally the roof of the Great Hall was raised twelve
braccia above its former height; insomuch that if Arnolfo, Michelozzo, and the others who laboured
on the building from its first foundation onwards, were to return to life, they would not recognize
it--nay, they would believe that it was not theirs but a new erection and a different edifice.

But let us now return to Michelozzo; the Church of S. Giorgio had just been given to the Friars
of S. Domenico da Fiesole, but they only remained there from about the middle of July to the
end of January, for Cosimo de' Medici and his brother Lorenzo obtained for them from Pope Eugenius
the Church and Convent of S. Marco, which was previously the seat of Silvestrine Monks, to
whom the said S. Giorgio was given in exchange. And Cosimo and Lorenzo, being very devoted
to religion and to divine service and worship, ordained that the said Convent of S. Marco should
be rebuilt entirely anew after the design and model of Michelozzo, and should be made very
vast and magnificent, with all the conveniences that the said friars could possibly desire.
This work was begun in the year 1437, and the first part to be built was that opening out above
the old refectory, opposite to the ducal stables, which Duke Lorenzo de' Medici formerly caused
to be built. In this place twenty cells were built, the roof was put on, and the wooden furniture
was made for the refectory, the whole being finished in the manner wherein it still stands
to-day. But for some time the work was carried no further, for they had to wait to see what
would be the end of a law-suit that one Maestro Stefano, General of the said Silvestrines,
had brought against the Friars of S. Marco with regard to that convent. This suit having concluded
in favour of the said Friars of S. Marco, the building was once more continued. But since the
principal chapel, which had been built by Ser Pino Bonaccorsi, had afterwards come into the
hands of a lady of the Caponsacchi family, and from her to Mariotto Banchi, some law-suit was
fought out over this, and Mariotto, having upheld his rights and having taken the said chapel
from Agnolo della Casa, to whom the said Silvestrines had given or sold it, presented it to
Cosimo de' Medici, who gave Mariotto 500 crowns in return for it. Later, after Cosimo had likewise
bought from the Company of the Spirito Santo the site where the choir now stands, the chapel,
the tribune, and the choir were built under the direction of Michelozzo, and completely furnished
in the year 1439. Afterwards the library was made, eighty braccia in length and eighteen in
breadth, and vaulted both above and below, with sixty-four shelves of cypress wood filled with
most beautiful books. After this the dormitory was finished, being brought to a square shape;
and finally the cloister was completed, together with all the truly commodious apartments of
that convent, which is believed to be the best designed, the most beautiful, and the most commodious
that there is in Italy, thanks to the talent and industry of Michelozzo, who delivered it completely
finished in the year 1452. It is said that Cosimo spent 36,000 ducats on this fabric, and that
while it was building he gave the monks 366 ducats every year for their maintenance. Of the
construction and consecration of this holy place we read in an inscription on marble over the
door that leads into the sacristy, in the following words:

   CUM HOC TEMPLUM MARCO EVANGELISTÆ DICATUM MAGNIFICIS SUMPTIBUS
   CL. V. COSMI MEDICIS TANDEM ABSOLUTUM ESSET, EUGENIUS QUARTUS
   ROMANUS PONTIFEX MAXIMA CARDINALIUM, ARCHIEPISCOPORUM, EPISCOPORUM,
   ALIORUMQUE SACERDOTUM FREQUENTIA COMITATUS, ID CELEBERRIMO
   EPIPHANIÆ DIE, SOLEMNI MORE SERVATO, CONSECRAVIT. TUM
   ETIAM QUOTANNIS OMNIBUS, QUI EODEM DIE FESTO ANNUAS STATASQUE
   CONSECRATIONIS CEREMONIAS CASTE PIEQUE CELEBRARINT VISERINTVE,
   TEMPORIS LUENDIS PECCATIS SUIS DEBITI SEPTEM ANNOS TOTIDEMQUE
     QUADRAGESIMAS APOSTOLICA REMISIT AUCTORITATE, A. MCCCCXLII.

In like manner, Cosimo erected from the design of Michelozzo the noviciate of S. Croce in Florence,
with the chapel of the same, and the entrance that leads from the church to the sacristy, to
the said noviciate, and to the staircase of the dormitory. These works are not inferior in
beauty, convenience, and adornment to any building whatsoever of all those which the truly
magnificent Cosimo de' Medici caused to be erected, or which Michelozzo carried into execution;
and besides other parts, the door that leads from the church to the said places, which he made
of grey-stone, was much extolled in those times by reason of its novelty and of its beautifully
made frontal, for it was then very little the custom to imitate the good manner of antique
work, as this door does. Cosimo de' Medici also built, with the advice and design of Michelozzo,
the Palace of Cafaggiuolo in Mugello, giving it the form of a fortress with ditches round it;
and he laid out farms, roads, gardens, fountains with groves round them, fowling-places, and
other appurtenances of a villa, all very splendid; and at a distance of two miles from the
said palace, in a place called the Bosco a' Frati, with the advice of Michelozzo, he carried
out the building of a convent for the Frati de' Zoccoli of the Order of S. Francis, which is
something very beautiful. At Trebbio, likewise, he made many other improvements which are still
to be seen; and at a distance of two miles from Florence, also, he built the palatial Villa
of Careggi, which was very rich and magnificent; and thither Michelozzo brought the water for
the fountain that is seen there at the present day. For Giovanni, son of Cosimo de' Medici,
the same master built another magnificent and noble palace at Fiesole, sinking the foundations
for the lower part in the brow of the hill, at great expense but not without great advantage,
for in that lower part he made vaults, cellars, stables, vat-stores, and many other beautiful
and commodious offices; and above, besides the chambers, halls, and other ordinary rooms, he
made some for books and certain others for music. In short, Michelozzo showed in this building
how great was his skill in architecture, for, besides what has been mentioned, it was constructed
in such a manner that, although it stands on that hill, it has never moved a hair's breadth.
This palace finished, he built above it, almost on the summit of the hill, the Church and Convent
of the Friars of S. Girolamo, at the expense of the same man. The same Michelozzo made the
design and model which Cosimo sent to Jerusalem for the hospice that he caused to be erected
there, for the pilgrims who visit the Sepulchre of Christ. He also sent the design for six
windows in the façade of S. Pietro in Rome, which were made there afterwards with the arms
of Cosimo de' Medici; but three of them were removed in our own day and replaced by Pope Paul
III with others bearing the arms of the house of Farnese. After this, hearing that there was
a lack of water at S. Maria degli Angeli in Assisi, to the very great discomfort of the people
who go there every year on August 1 to receive Absolution, Cosimo sent thither Michelozzo,
who brought the water of a spring, which rose half-way up the brow of the hill, to the fountain,
which he covered with a very rich and lovely loggia resting on some columns made of separate
pieces and bearing the arms of Cosimo. Within the convent, also at the commission of Cosimo,
he made many useful improvements for the friars; and these the magnificent Lorenzo de' Medici
afterwards renewed with more adornment and at greater expense, besides presenting to that Madonna
the image of her in wax which is still to be seen there. Cosimo also caused the road that leads
from the said Madonna degli Angeli to the city to be paved with bricks; nor did Michelozzo
take his leave of those parts before he had made the design for the old Citadel of Perugia.
Having finally returned to Florence, he built a house on the Canto de' Tornaquinci for Giovanni
Tornabuoni, similar in almost every way to the palace that he had made for Cosimo, save that
the façade is not in rustic-work and has no cornices above, but is quite plain.

After the death of Cosimo, by whom Michelozzo had been loved as much as a dear friend can be
loved, his son Piero caused him to build the marble Chapel of the Crucifix in S. Miniato sul
Monte; and in the half-circle of the arch at the back of the said chapel Michelozzo carved
in low-relief a Falcon with the Diamond (the emblem of Cosimo, father of Piero), which was
truly a very beautiful work. After these things, the same Piero de' Medici, intending to build
the Chapel of the Nunziata, in the Church of the Servi, entirely of marble, besought Michelozzo,
now an old man, to give him his advice in the matter, both because he greatly admired his talents
and because he knew how faithful a friend and servant he had been to his father Cosimo. This
Michelozzo did, and the charge of constructing it was given to Pagno di Lapo Partigiani, a
sculptor of Fiesole, who, as one who wished to include many things in a small space, showed
many ideas in this work. This chapel is supported by four marble columns about nine braccia
high, made with double flutings in the Corinthian manner, with the bases and capitals variously
carved and with double members. On the columns rest the architrave, frieze, and cornice, likewise
with double members and carvings and wrought with various things of fancy, and particularly
with foliage and the emblems and arms of the Medici. Between these and other cornices made
for another range of lights, there is a large inscription, very beautifully carved in marble.
Below, between the four columns, forming the ceiling of the chapel, there is a coffer-work
canopy of marble all carved, full of enamels fired in a furnace and of various fanciful designs
in mosaic wrought with gold colour and precious stones. The surface of the pavement is full
of porphyry, serpentine, variegated marbles, and other very rare stones, put together and distributed
with beautiful design. The said chapel is enclosed by a grille made of bronze ropes, with candelabra
above fixed into an ornament of marble, which makes a very beautiful finish to the bronze and
to the candelabra; and the door which closes the chapel in front is likewise of bronze and
very well contrived. Piero left orders that the chapel should be lighted all round by thirty
silver lamps, and this was done. Now, as these were ruined during the siege, the Lord Duke
gave orders many years ago that new ones should be made, and the greater part of them are already
finished, while the work still goes on; but in spite of this there has never been a moment
when there has not been that full number of lamps burning, according to the instructions of
Piero, although, from the time when they were destroyed, they have not been of silver. To these
adornments Pagno added a very large lily of copper, issuing from a vase which rests on the
corner of the gilt and painted cornice of wood which holds the lamps; but this cornice does
not support so great a weight by itself, for the whole is sustained by two branches of the
lily, which are of iron painted green, and are fixed with lead into the corner of the marble
cornice, holding those that are of copper suspended in the air. This work was truly made with
judgment and invention; wherefore it is worthy of being much extolled as something beautiful
and bizarre. Beside this chapel, he made another on the side towards the cloister, which serves
as a choir for the friars, with windows which take their light from the court and give it both
to the said chapel and also (since they stand opposite to two similar windows) to the room
containing the little organ, which is by the side of the marble chapel. On the front of this
choir there is a large press, in which the silver vessels of the Nunziata are kept; and on
all these ornaments and throughout the whole are the arms and emblem of the Medici. Without
the Chapel of the Nunziata and opposite to it, the same man made a large chandelier of bronze,
five braccia in height, as well as the marble holy-water font at the entrance of the church,
and a S. John in the centre, which is a very beautiful work. Above the counter where the friars
sell the candles, moreover, he made a half-length Madonna of marble with the Child in her arms,
in half-relief, of the size of life and very devout; and a similar work in the Office of the
Wardens of Works of S. Maria del Fiore.

Pagno also wrought some figures in S. Miniato al Tedesco in company with his master Donato,
while a youth; and he made a tomb of marble in the Church of S. Martino in Lucca, opposite
to the Chapel of the Sacrament, for Messer Piero di Nocera, who is portrayed there from nature.
Filarete relates in the twenty-fifth book of his work that Francesco Sforza, fourth Duke of
Milan, presented a very beautiful palace in Milan to the Magnificent Cosimo de' Medici, and
that Cosimo, in order to show the Duke how pleased he was with such a gift, not only adorned
it richly with marbles and with carved wood-work, but also enlarged it under the direction
of Michelozzo, making it eighty-seven braccia and a half, whereas it had previously been only
eighty-four braccia. Besides this, he had many pictures painted there, particularly the stories
of the life of the Emperor Trajan in a loggia, wherein, among certain decorations, he caused
Francesco Sforza himself to be portrayed, with the Lady Bianca, his consort, Duchess of Milan,
and also their children, with many other noblemen and great persons, and likewise the portraits
of eight Emperors; and to these portraits Michelozzo added that of Cosimo, made by his own
hand. Throughout all the apartments he placed the arms of Cosimo in diverse fashions, with
his emblem of the Falcon and Diamond. The said pictures were all by the hand of Vincenzio di
Zoppa, a painter of no small repute at that time and in that country.

It is recorded that the money that Cosimo spent in the restoration of this palace was paid
by Pigello Portinari, a citizen of Florence, who then directed the bank and the accounts of
Cosimo in Milan and lived in the said palace. There are some works in marble and bronze by
the hand of Michelozzo in Genoa, and many others in other places, which are all known by the
manner; but what we have already said about him must suffice. He died at the age of sixty-eight,
and he was buried in his own tomb in S. Marco at Florence. His portrait, by the hand of Fra
Giovanni, is in the Sacristy of S. Trinita, in the figure of an old man with a cap on his head,
representing Nicodemus, who is taking Christ down from the Cross.

INDEX

INDEX OF NAMES OF THE CRAFTSMEN MENTIONED IN VOLUME II

   Agnolo (of Siena), 81, 94, 95

   Agnolo Gaddi, 15, 25

   Agostino (of Siena), 81, 94, 95

   Agostino della Robbia, 123-125

   Alberti, Leon Batista, 227

   Albertinelli, Mariotto, 190

   Alessandro Filipepi (Sandro Botticelli, or Sandro di Botticello), 190

   Alesso Baldovinetti, 190

   Alonso Spagnuolo, 190

   Alvaro di Piero, 64

   Ammanati, Bartolommeo, 228

   Andrea dal Castagno (called Andrea degli Impiccati), 190

   Andrea del Sarto, 190

   Andrea della Robbia, 125-127, 175

   Andrea di Cione Orcagna, 91

   Andrea Mantegna, 138

   Andrea Pisano, 50, 81, 83, 91, 93, 120, 145, 147, 154, 160, 200

   Andrea Verrocchio, 190, 243, 248

   Angeli, Don Lorenzo degli (Don Lorenzo Monaco), Life, 55-58. 171

   Angelico, Fra (Fra Giovanni da Fiesole), 190, 271

   Antignano, Segna d', 26

   Antonio da Verzelli, 218

   Antonio Filarete, 159, 270

   Antonio Fiorentino, 236

   Antonio (or Vittore) Pisanello, 187

   Antonio Pollaiuolo, 159

   Antonio Rossellino, 253

   Antonio Viniziano, Life, 15-20. 37, 43, 83

   Antonio Vite, 45, 58

   Apelles, 80, 120, 191

   Arca, Niccolò dell' (Niccolò Bolognese), 97

   Aretino, Niccolò (Niccolò d'Arezzo, Niccolò di Piero Lamberti), Life,
     101-104. 145, 146, 159, 200

   Aretino, Spinello, Life, 29-39. 253

   Bandinelli, Baccio, 127, 190

   Bartoli, Domenico, 63, 64

   Bartoli, Taddeo, Life, 61-64

   Bartolo di Maestro Fredi, 61

   Bartolommeo Ammanati, 228

   Bartolommeo di San Marco, Fra (called Baccio della Porta), 190, 249

   Bartoluccio Ghiberti, 144-146, 155, 161, 162

   Beccafumi, Domenico, 96

   Berna, Life, 3-5

   Bernardetto di Mona Papera, 248

   Bernardo Daddi, 25, 26

   Bertoldo, 249, 253, 254

   Bicci, Lorenzo di, Life, 67-73

   Bicci di Lorenzo, 72

   Bologna, Galante da, 51

   Bolognese, Niccolò (called Niccolò dell'Arca), 97

   Bonaccorso Ghiberti, 160

   Botticelli, Sandro (Sandro di Botticello, or Alessandro Filipepi), 190

   Bronzi, Simone de' (Simone da Colle), 145, 146, 200

   Brunelleschi, Filippo (Filippo di Ser Brunellesco), Life, 195-236.
     84-86, 93, 95, 124, 139, 143-147, 150, 159, 161, 183, 185, 188, 190,
     195-236, 240-243, 259, 260

   Buffalmacco, Buonamico, 68

   Buggiano, Il, 235

   Bugiardini, Giuliano, 138

   Buonaiuti, Corsino, 26

   Buonarroti, Michelagnolo, 159, 162, 187, 190, 191, 221, 255, 261

   Buschetto, 80

   Calamis, 80

   Campagnola, Girolamo, 138

   Canachus, 80

   Casentino, Jacopo di, Life, 23-26. 29, 33, 83

   Castagno, Andrea dal (called Andrea degli Impiccati), 190

   Castel della Pieve, Pietro da (Pietro Vannucci, or Pietro Perugino), 190

   Cenni, Pasquino, 26

   Cennini, Cennino di Drea, 109

   Cimabue, Giovanni, 25, 82, 161, 202

   Cini, Simone, 36

   Cinuzzi, Vanni, 26

   Colle, Simone da (called Simone de' Bronzi), 145, 146, 200

   Consiglio Gherardi, 26

   Corsino Buonaiuti, 26

   Cosmè, 104

   Credi, Lorenzo di, 190

   Cremona, Geremia da, 236

   Cristofano, 104

   Daddi, Bernardo, 25, 26

   Dalmasi, Lippo, 51

   Dello, Life, 107-110. 136

   Desiderio da Settignano, 253

   Domenico Bartoli, 63, 64

   Domenico Beccafumi, 96

   Domenico dal Lago di Lugano, 236

   Domenico Ghirlandajo, 190

   Domenico Pucci, 26

   Don Jacopo, 57

   Don Lorenzo Monaco (Don Lorenzo degli Angeli), Life, 55-58. 171

   Don Silvestro, 57

   Donato (Donatello), Life, 239-255. 86, 87,
     91-97, 145, 146, 151, 200

   Forzore di Spinello, 39, 177

   Fra Angelico (Fra Giovanni da Fiesole), 190, 271

   Fra Bartolommeo di San Marco (called Baccio della Porta), 190, 249

   Fra Filippo Lippi, 187, 190

   Fra Giovanni da Fiesole (called Fra Angelico), 190, 271

   Francesco della Luna, 223, 232

   Francesco di Giorgio, 10, 85

   Francesco di Valdambrina, 145, 146, 200

   Francesco Fiorentino, 58

   Francesco Granacci (Il Granaccio), 190

   Franciabigio, 190

   Fredi, Bartolo di Maestro, 61

   Gabriello Saracini, 36

   Gaddi, Agnolo, 15, 25

   Gaddi, Taddeo, 23, 56, 83, 199, 240

   Galante da Bologna, 51

   Galasso Galassi, 104

   Gentile da Fabriano, 187

   Geremia da Cremona, 236

   Gherardi, Consiglio, 26

   Gherardo, Starnina, Life, 43-46. 29, 33, 83

   Jacopo Sansovino, 127

   Lamberti, Niccolò di Piero (Niccolò d'Arezzo, Niccolò Aretino), Life,
     101-104. 175, 213

   Luca della Robbia (the younger), 126, 127

   Luca di Tomè, 5

   Luca Fancelli, 227

   Lugano, Domenico dal Lago di, 236

   Luna, Francesco della, 223, 232

   Mantegna, Andrea, 138

   Marco da Montepulciano, 72, 179

   Mariotto Albertinelli, 190

   Martini, Simone (Memmi or Sanese), 16, 37, 83

   Masaccio, Life, 183-191. 86, 87, 133, 183-191, 198

   Maso (or Tommaso, called Giottino), 83

   Masolino da Panicale, Life, 165-167. 20, 110, 131-140, 159, 183, 184, 253

   Parri Spinelli, Life, 171-179. 37, 43, 83

   Vite, Antonio, 45, 58

   Vittorio Ghiberti, 160, 162

   Vittore (or Antonio) Pisanello, 187

   Zeuxis, 80

   Zoppa, Vincenzio di, 271

END OF VOL. II.