I do not pretend, in Publishing these Remarks of mine, to arrogate any Superiority of Genius;
but I think every one should contribute to the Improvement of some Branch or other of Literature
in this Country of ours, and thus furnish out his Share towards the Bettering of the Minds
of his Countrymen, by affording some Honest Amusements, which can entertain a Man, and help
to refine his Taste, and improve his Understanding, and no Ways at the Expence of his Honesty
and Virtue. In the Course of these Remarks, I shall make use of the Edition of this Poet, given
us by Mr. Theobalds, because he is generally thought to have understood our Author best, and
certainly deserves the Applause of all his Countrymen for the great Pains he has been at to
give us the best Edition of this Poet, which has yet appear'd. I would not have Mr. Pope offended
at what I say, for I look upon him as the greatest Genius in Poetry that has ever appear'd
in England: But the Province of an Editor and a Commentator is quite foreign to that of a Poet.
The former endeavours to give us an Author as he is; the latter, by the Correctness and Excellency
of his own Genius, is often tempted to give us an Author as he thinks he ought to be.

Before I proceed to the particular Parts of this Tragedy, I must premise, that the great Admirers
of our Poet cannot be offended, if I point out some of his Imperfections, since they will find
that they are very few in Proportion to his Beauties. Amongst the former, we may reckon some
Anachronisms, and also the inordinate Length of Time supposed to be employ'd in several of
his Pieces; add to all this, that the Plots of his Plays in general, are charged with some
little Absurdity or other. But then, how easily may we forgive this, when we reflect upon his
many Excellencies! The Tragedy that is now coming under our Examination, is one of the best
of his Pieces, and strikes us with a certain Awe and Seriousness of Mind, far beyond those
Plays whose Whole Plot turns upon vehement and uncontroulable Love, such as are most of our
modern Tragedies. These certainly have not the great Effect that others have, which turn either
upon Ambition, the Love of one's Country, or Paternal or Filial Tenderness. Accordingly we
find, that few among the Ancients, and hardly any of our Author's Plays, are built upon the
Passion of Love in a direct Manner; by which I mean, that they have not the mutual Attachment
of a Lover and his Mistress for their chief Basis. Love will always make a great Figure in
Tragedy, if only its chief Branches be made use of; as for instance, Jealousy (as in Othello)
or the beautiful Distress of Man and Wife (as in Romeo and Juliet) but never when the whole
Play is founded upon two Lovers desiring to possess each other: And one of the Reasons for
this seems to be, that this last Species of that Passion is more commonly met with than the
former, and so consequently strikes us less. Add to this, that there may a Suspicion arise,
that the Passion of Love in a direct Manner may be more sensual than in those Branches which
I have mention'd; which Suspicion is sufficient to take from its Dignity, and lessen our Veneration
for it. Of all Shakespeare's Tragedies, none can surpass this, as to the noble Passions which
it naturally raises in us. That the Reader may see what our Poet had to work upon, I shall
insert the Plan of it as abridged from Saxo-Grammaticus's Danish History by Mr. Theobalds.
"The Historian calls our Poets Hero Amlethus, his Father Horwendillus, his Uncle Fengo, and
his Mother Gerutha. The old King in single Combat, slew Collerus King of Norway; Fengo makes
away with his Brother Horwendillus, and marries his Widow Gerutha. Amlethus, to avoid being
suspected by his Uncle of Designs, assumes a Form of utter Madness. A fine Woman is planted
upon him, to try if he would yield to the Impressions of Love. Fengo contrives, that Amlethus,
in order to sound him, should be closetted by his Mother. A Man is conceal'd in the Rushes
to overhear their Discourse; whom Amlethus discovers and kills. When the Queen is frighted
at this Behaviour of his; he tasks her about her criminal Course of Life, and incestuous Conversation
with her former Husband's Murtherer; confesses his Madness is but counterfeited, to protect
himself, and secure his Revenge for his Father; to which he injoins the Queen's Silence. Fengo
sends Amlethus to Britain: Two of the King's Servants attend him with Letters to the British
King, stricyly pressing the Death of Amlethus, who, in the Night Time, coming at their Commission,
overreads it, forms a new One, and turns the Destruction designed towards himself on the Bearers
of the Letters. Amlethus returning Home, by a Wile surprizes and kills his Uncle." I shall
have Occasion to remark in the Sequel, that in one Particular he has follow'd the Plan so closely
as to produce an Absurdity in his Plot. And I must premise also this, that in my Examination
of the whole Conduct of the Play, the Reader must not be surprised, if I censure any Part of
it, although it be entirely in Conformity to the Plan the Author has chosen; because it is
easy to conceive, that a Poet's Judgment is particularly shewn in chusing the proper Circumstances,
and rejecting the improper Ones of the Ground-work which he raises his Play upon. In general
we are to take Notice, that as History ran very low in his Days, most of his Plays are founded
upon some old wretched Chronicler, or some empty Italian Novelist; but the more base and mean
were his Materials, so much more ought we to admire His Skill, Who has been able to work up
his Pieces to such Sublimity from such low Originals. Had he had the Advantages of many of
his Successors, ought not we to believe, that he would have made the greatest Use of them?
I shall not insist upon the Merit of those who first break through the thick Mist of Barbarism
in Poetry, which was so strong about the Time our Poet writ, because this must be easily sensible
to every Reader who has the least Tincture of Letters; but thus much we must observe, that
before his Time there were very few (if any) Dramatick Performances of any Tragick Writer,
which deserve to be remembred; so much were all the noble Originals of Antiquity buried in
Oblivion. One would think that the Works of Sophocles, Euripides, &c. were Discoveries of the
last Age only; and not that they had existed for so many Centuries. There is something very
astonishing in the general Ignorance and Dullness of Taste, which for so long a Time over-spread
the World, after it had been so gloriously enlighten'd by Athens and Rome; especially as so
many of their excellent Master-pieces were still remaining, which one would have thought should
have excited even the Brutes of those barbarous Ages to have examined them, and form'd themselves
according to such Models.

VOL. the 7th of Mr. Theobald's Shakespeare.

Page 225.

SCENE I

Bernardo and Francisco, two Centinels.

Bernardo. Who's there? &c.

Nothing can be more conformable to Reason, than that the Beginning of all Dramatick Performances
(and indeed of every other kind of Poesie) should be with the greatest Simplicity, that so
our Passions maybe work'd upon by Degrees. This Rule is very happily observ'd in this Play;
and it has this Advantage over many others, that it has Majesty and Simplicity joined together.
For this whole preparatory Discourse to the Ghost's coming in, at the same Time that it is
necessary towards laying open the Scheme of the Play, creates an Awe and Attention in the Spectators,
such as very well fits them to receive the Appearance of a Messenger from the other World,
with all the Terror and Seriousness necessary on the Occasion. And surely the Poet has manag'd
the Whole in such a Manner, that it is all entirely Natural: And tho' most Men are well enough
arm'd against all Belief of the Appearances of Ghosts, yet they are forced, during the Representation
of this Piece, entirely to suspend their most fixed Opinions, and believe that they do actually
see a Phantom, and that the whole Plot of the Play is justly and naturally founded upon the
Appearance of this Spectre.

Page 227.

   Marcell. HORATIO says 'tis but our Phantasie,
   And will not let Belief take hold of Him,
   Touching this dreaded Sight twice seen of Us;
   Therefore I have intreated him along
   With us to watch the Minutes of this Night;
   That if again this Apparition come,
   He may approve our Eyes, and speak to it.

   HORATIO, Tush, Tush, 'twill not appear!

These Speeches help greatly to deceive us; for they shew one of the principal Persons of the
Drama to be as incredulous, in Relation to the Appearance of Phantoms, as we can be; but that
he is at last convinc'd of his Error by the Help of his Eyes. For it is a Maxim entirely agreeable
to Truth, if we consider human Nature, that whatever is supernatural or improbable, is much
more likely to gain Credit with us, if it be introduced as such, and talk'd of as such by the
Persons of the Drama, but at last prov'd to be true, tho' an extraordinary Thing, than if it
were brought in as a Thing highly probable, and no one were made to boggle at the Belief of
it. The Reason of this seems to be, that we can for once, upon a very great Occasion, allow
such an Incident as this to have happen'd, if it be brought in as a Thing of great Rarity;
but we can by no means so suspend our Judgement and Knowledge, or deceive Our Understandings,
as to grant That to be common and usual which we know to be entirely Supernatural and Improbable.

Page 227.

   Enter the Ghost.

Here it is certain, nothing could be better tim'd than the Entrance of this Spectre; for he
comes in and convinces Horatio, to save Marcellos the Trouble of repeating the whole Story,
which would have been tiresome to the Spectators, as these Gentlemen were obliged soon after
to relate the Whole to Prince Hamlet.

Horatio's Speeches to the Apparition are exceeding Natural, Aweful, and Great, and well suited
to the Occasion and his own Character. By Heaven, I charge thee speak. Page 227.

The other is Page 130.

His desiring Marcellus to stop it, is also much in Nature, because it shews a Perturbation
of Mind, very much to be expected at such an Incident. For he must know, being a Scholar, (as
they term him) that Spirits could not be stopp'd as Corporeal Substances can.

But to return to Page 228.

   Bernardo, How now Horatio! you tremble
   and look pale, &c.

This is entirely in Nature, for it cannot be supposed, that any Man, tho' never so much endu'd
with Fortitude, could see so strange a Sight, so shocking to human Nature, without some Commotion
of his Frame, although the Bravery of his Mind makes him get the better of it.

Page 228.

   Horatio, Before my God, I might not this believe,
   Without the sensible and trite Avouch
   Of mine own Eyes.

This Speech still helps on our Deception, for the Reasons I have already given.

Page 228.

   Horatio, Such was the very Armour he
   had on, &c.

I have heard many Persons wonder why the Poet should bring in this Ghost in complete Armour.
It does, I own, at first seem hard to be accounted for; but I think these Reasons may be given
for it, viz. We are to consider, that he could introduce him in these Dresses only; in his
Regal Dress, in a Habit of Interment, in a common Habit, or in some Phantastick one of his
own Invention. Now let us examine which was most likely to affect the Spectators with Passions
proper to the Occasion, and which could most probably furnish out great Sentiments and fine
Expressions.

The Regal Habit has nothing uncommon in it, nor surprising; nor could it give rise to any fine
Images. The Habit of Interment was something too horrible; for Terror, not Horror, is to be
raised in the Spectators. The common Habit (or Habit de Ville, as the French call it) was by
no Means proper for the Occasion.

It remains then, that the Poet should chuse some Habit from his own Brain: But this certainly
could not be proper, because Invention in such a Case, would be so much in Danger of falling
into the Grotesque, that it was not to be hazarded.

Now as to the Armour, it was very suitable to a King, who is described as a great Warrior,
and is very particular, and consequently affects the Spectators, without being phantastick.
Besides, if there were no other Reason, the fine Image which arises from thence, in these Lines,
is Reason enough.

     Such was the very Armour he had on,
   When He th' ambitious Norway combated,
   So frown'd He once, when in angry Parle,
   He smote the sleaded Polack on the Ice.
     'Tis Strange!

There is a Stroke of Nature in Horatio's breaking off, from the Description of the King, and
falling into the Exclamation. 'Tis Strange! which is inimitably Beautiful.

Page 228.

   Marcellus. Good now sit down, &c.

The whole Discourse concerning the great Preparations making in Denmark is very Poetical, and
necessary also towards the introducing of Fortinbrass in this Play, whose Appearance gives
Rise to one Scene, which adds a Beauty to the Whole; I mean, That wherein Hamlet makes those
noble Reflections upon seeing That Prince's Army. Besides, this Discourse is necessary also
to give the Ghost Time to appear again, in order to affect the Spectators still more; and from
this Conversation the Interlocutors draw one Reason, why the Spirit appears in Arms, which
appears rational to the Audience. It gives also Horatio an Opportunity of addressing the Ghost
in that beautiful Manner he does.

Page 229

Stay Illusion! &c.

The Description of the Prefages which happen'd to Rome, and the drawing a like Inference from
this supernatural Appearance, is very nervous and Poetical.

Page 230, 231.

Bernardo. It was about to speak when the Cock crew &c.

The Speeches in consequence of this Observation are truly beautiful, and are properly Marks
of a great Genius; as also these Lines which describe the Morning, are in the true Spirit of
Poetry.

Page 31. But, look, the Morn, in Russet Mantle clad, Walks oe'r the Dew of yon high Eastern Hill.

And as to Shakespeare's complying with the vulgar Notions of Spirits amongst the English at
that Time, so far from being low, it adds a Grace and a Naïveté to the whole Passage, which
one can much easier be sensible of than know how to make others so.

SCENE. The Palace, (p. 231.) And Sequel.

Enter the King, Queen, Hamlet, &c.

It is very natural and apropos, that the King should bring some plausible Excuse for marrying
his Brother's Wife so soon after the Decease of his Brother, which he does in his first Speech
in this Scene: It would else have too soon revolted the Spectators against such an unusual
Proceeding. All the Speeches of the King in this Scene to his Ambassadors Cornelius and Voltimand,
and to Laertes, and to Prince Hamlet, are entirely Fawning, and full of Dissimulation, and
makes him well deserve the Character which the Prince afterwards gives him, of smiling, damn'd
Villain, &c. when he is informed of his Crime.

The King's and Queen's Questions to Hamlet are very proper, to give the Audience a true Idea
of the Filial Piety of the young Prince, and of his virtuous Character; for we are hereby informed
of his fixed and strong Grief for the Loss of his Father: For it does not appear, that the
Usurpation of the Crown from him, sits heavy on his Soul, at least, it is not seen by any Part
of his Behaviour.

How his Uncle came to be preferred to him, we are left entirely in the dark, but may suppose
it to have been done in the same Manner, as several things of the like Nature have been effected,
viz. by Corruption and Violence, and perhaps upon the Pretence of the Prince's being too young.

I can by no Means agree with Mr. Theobalds, (p. 235.) who thinks, that it is necessary to suppose
a considerable Number of Years spent in this Tragedy; because Prince Hamlet is said to desire
to return to Wittenberg again, and is supposed to be just come from it; and that afterwards,
the Grave-Digger lets us know that the Prince is Thirty Years old; my Reasons are, that as
Wittenberg was an University, and Hamlet is represented as a Prince of great Accomplishments,
it is no wonder that he should like to spend his Time there, in going on in his Improvements,
rather than to remain inactive at Elsinoor, or be immers'd in Sottishness, with which he seems
to tax his Countrymen; as will appear in the Sequel. Besides, he might well desire to return
there, when he found his Throne usurped, and his Mother acting so abominable a Part. And as
to the Term of going to School, &c. That does not at all imply literally a School for Boys,
but is poetically used for Studying at any Age.

Another Reason may be given why there cannot be supposed to be a great Length of Time in this
Play; which is this, That we see in the First Act, Ambassadors dispatch'd to old Norway, concerning
his Nephew Fortinbras's Army, which was then ready to march; and in the Fourth Act, we see
this Prince at the Head of that Army, which immediately, upon the Embassy from the Danish King
to his Uncle, we are naturally to suppose he leads to that other Enterprize which is mentioned
in that Scene. Now it is no ways likely, that between the Embassy and the marching of an Army
already assembled before that Embassy, there should be a Number of Years. These Reasons and
the whole Conduct of the Piece convince me, that this is one of Shakespeare's Plays, in which
the least Time is employ'd; how much there is, I cannot pretend to say.

As to the Prolepsis, or in other Words, the mentioning the University of Wittenberg, long before
its Establishment, thus antedating its Time, I shall not justify Shakespeare; I think it is
a fault in him; but I cannot be of Opinion, that it has any bad Effect in this Tragedy. See
Mr. Theobald's Note, (p. 235.)

As to Hamlet's Soliloquy, I shall set down the whole Passage, and
shall subjoin the Remarks of a very eminent Author which are in the
Spirit of true Criticism. Oh God! Oh God! That it should come to this,
   But two Months dead! Nay, not so much,
         not Two!
   So Excellent a King, that was to this,
   Hyperion to a Satyr: So Loving to my Mother,
   That he would not let e'en the Winds of
        Heav'n
   Visit her Face too roughly. Heav'n and Earth!
   Must I remember? Why, she would hang on
        him,
   As if Increase of Appetite had grown
   By what it fed on; yet within a Month!
   Let me not think. Frailty! Thy Name is
       Woman.
   A little Month; e'er yet those Shoes were old,
   With which she follow'd my poor Father's
       Body,
   Like Niobe, all Tears; Why she, even she,
   (Oh Heav'n, a Beast that wants Discourse
      of Reason,
   Would have mourn'd longer) married with
      mine Uncle,
   My Father's Brother; but no more like my
      Father,
   Than I to Hercules.
   But, break my Heart, for I must hold my
     Tongue.

