Not but that doubtless our current so-called literature, (like an endless supply of small coin,)
performs a certain service, and may-be, too, the service needed for the time, (the preparation-service,
as children learn to spell.) Everybody reads, and truly nearly everybody writes, either books,
or for the magazines or journals. The matter has magnitude, too, after a sort. But is it really
advancing? or, has it advanced for a long while? There is something impressive about the huge
editions of the dailies and weeklies, the mountain-stacks of white paper piled in the press-vaults,
and the proud, crashing, ten-cylinder presses, which I can stand and watch any time by the
half hour. Then, (though the States in the field of imagination present not a single first-class
work, not a single great literatus,) the main objects, to amuse, to titillate, to pass away
time, to circulate the news, and rumors of news, to rhyme and read rhyme, are yet attain'd,
and on a scale of infinity. To-day, in books, in the rivalry of writers, especially novelists,
success, (so-call'd,) is for him or her who strikes the mean flat average, the sensational
appetite for stimulus, incident, persiflage, &c., and depicts, to the common calibre, sensual,
exterior life. To such, or the luckiest of them, as we see, the audiences are limitless and
profitable; but they cease presently. While this day, or any day, to workmen portraying interior
or spiritual life, the audiences were limited, and often laggard--but they last forever.

Compared with the past, our modern science soars, and our journals serve--but ideal and even
ordinary romantic literature, does not, I think, substantially advance. Behold the prolific
brood of the contemporary novel, magazine-tale, theatre-play, &c. The same endless thread of
tangled and superlative love-story, inherited, apparently from the Amadises and Palmerins of
the 13th, 14th, and 15th centuries over there in Europe. The costumes and associations brought
down to date, the seasoning hotter and more varied, the dragons and ogres left out--but the
thing, I should say, has not advanced--is just as sensational, just as strain'd--remains about
the same, nor more, nor less.

What is the reason our time, our lands, that we see no fresh local courage, sanity, of our
own--the Mississippi, stalwart Western men, real mental and physical facts, Southerners, &c.,
in the body of our literature? especially the poetic part of it. But always, instead, a parcel
of dandies and ennuyees, dapper little gentlemen from abroad, who flood us with their thin
sentiment of parlors, parasols, piano-songs, tinkling rhymes, the five-hundredth importation--or
whimpering and crying about something, chasing one aborted conceit after another, and forever
occupied in dyspeptic amours with dyspeptic women. While, current and novel, the grandest events
and revolutions and stormiest passions of history, are crossing to-day with unparallel'd rapidity
and magnificence over the stages of our own and all the continents, offering new materials,
opening new vistas, with largest needs, inviting the daring launching forth of conceptions
in literature, inspired by them, soaring in highest regions, serving art in its highest (which
is only the other name for serving God, and serving humanity,) where is the man of letters,
where is the book, with any nobler aim than to follow in the old track, repeat what has been
said before--and, as its utmost triumph, sell well, and be erudite or elegant?

Mark the roads, the processes, through which these States have arrived, standing easy, henceforth
ever-equal, ever-compact in their range to-day. European adventures? the most antique? Asiatic
or African? old history--miracles--romances? Rather our own unquestion'd facts. They hasten,
incredible, blazing bright as fire. From the deeds and days of Columbus down to the present,
and including the present--and especially the late secession war--when I con them, I feel,
every leaf, like stopping to see if I have not made a mistake, and fall'n on the splendid figments
of some dream. But it is no dream. We stand, live, move, in the huge flow of our age s materialism--in
its spirituality. We have had founded for us the most positive of lands. The founders have
pass'd to other spheres--but what are these terrible duties they have left us?

Their politics the United States have, in my opinion, with all their faults, already substantially
establish'd, for good, on their own native, sound, long-vista'd principles, never to be overturn'd,
offering a sure basis for all the rest. With that, their future religious forms sociology,
literature, teachers, schools, costumes, &c., are of course to make a compact whole, uniform,
on tallying principles. For how can we remain, divided, contradicting ourselves, this way?[28]
I say we can only attain harmony and stability by consulting ensemble and the ethic purports,
and faithfully building upon them. For the New World, indeed, after two grand stages of preparation-strata,
I perceive that now a third stage, being ready for, (and without which the other two were useless,)
with unmistakable signs appears. The First stage was the planning and putting on record the
political foundation rights of immense masses of people--indeed all people--in the organization
of republican National, State, and municipal governments, all constructed with reference to
each, and each to all. This is the American programme, not for classes, but for universal man,
and is embodied in the compacts of the Declaration of Independence, and, as it began and has
now grown, with its amendments, the Federal Constitution--and in the State governments, with
all their interiors, and with general suffrage; those having the sense not only of what is
in themselves, but that their certain several things started, planted, hundreds of others in
the same direction duly arise and follow. The Second stage relates to material prosperity,
wealth, produce, labor-saving machines, iron, cotton, local, State and continental railways,
intercommunication and trade with all lands, steamships, mining, general employment, organization
of great cities, cheap appliances for comfort, numberless technical schools, books, newspapers,
a currency for money circulation, &c. The Third stage, rising out of the previous ones, to
make them and all illustrious, I, now, for one, promulge, announcing a native expression-spirit,
getting into form, adult, and through mentality, for these States, self-contain'd, different
from others, more expansive, more rich and free, to be evidenced by original authors and poets
to come, by American personalities, plenty of them, male and female, traversing the States,
none excepted--and by native superber tableaux and growths of language, songs, operas, orations,
lectures, architecture--and by a sublime and serious Religious Democracy sternly taking command,
dissolving the old, sloughing off surfaces, and from its own interior and vital principles,
reconstructing, democratizing society.

For America, type of progress, and of essential faith in man, above all his errors and wickedness--few
suspect how deep, how deep it really strikes. The world evidently supposes, and we have evidently
supposed so too, that the States are merely to achieve the equal franchise, an elective government--to
inaugurate the respectability of labor, and become a nation of practical operatives, law-abiding,
orderly and well off. Yes, those are indeed parts of the task of America; but they not only
do not exhaust the progressive conception, but rather arise, teeming with it, as the mediums
of deeper, higher progress. Daughter of a physical revolution--mother of the true revolutions,
which are of the interior life, and of the arts. For so long as the spirit is not changed,
any change of appearance is of no avail.

The old men, I remember as a boy, were always talking of American independence. What is independence?
Freedom from all laws or bonds except those of one's own being, control'd by the universal
ones. To lands, to man, to woman, what is there at last to each, but the inherent soul, nativity,
idiocrasy, free, highest-poised, soaring its own flight, following out itself?

At present, these States, in their theology and social standards, (of greater importance than
their political institutions,) are entirely held possession of by foreign lands. We see the
sons and daughters of the New World, ignorant of its genius, not yet inaugurating the native,
the universal, and the near, still importing the distant, the partial, and the dead. We see
London, Paris, Italy--not original, superb, as where they belong--but second-hand here, where
they do not belong. We see the shreds of Hebrews, Romans, Greeks; but where, on her own soil,
do we see, in any faithful, highest, proud expression, America herself? I sometimes question
whether she has a corner in her own house.

Not but that in one sense, and a very grand one, good theology, good art, or good literature,
has certain features shared in common. The combination fraternizes, ties the races--is, in
many particulars, under laws applicable indifferently to all, irrespective of climate or date,
and, from whatever source, appeals to emotions, pride, love, spirituality, common to human
kind. Nevertheless, they touch a man closest, (perhaps only actually touch him,) even in these,
in their expression through autochthonic lights and shades, flavors, fondnesses, aversions,
specific incidents, illustrations, out of his own nationality, geography, surroundings, antecedents,
&c. The spirit and the form are one, and depend far more on association, identity and place,
than is supposed. Subtly interwoven with the materiality and personality of a land, a race--Teuton,
Turk, Californian, or what-not--there is always something--I can hardly tell what it is--history
but describes the results of it--it is the same as the untellable look of some human faces.
Nature, too, in her stolid forms, is full of it--but to most it is there a secret. This something
is rooted in the invisible roots, the profoundest meanings of that place, race, or nationality;
and to absorb and again effuse it, uttering words and products as from its midst, and carrying
it into highest regions, is the work, or a main part of the work, of any country's true author,
poet, historian, lecturer, and perhaps even priest and philosoph. Here, and here only, are
the foundations for our really valuable and permanent verse, drama, &c.

But at present, (judged by any higher scale than that which finds the chief ends of existence
to be to feverishly make money during one-half of it, and by some "amusement," or perhaps foreign
travel, flippantly kill time, the other half,) and consider'd with reference to purposes of
patriotism, health, a noble personality, religion, and the democratic adjustments, all these
swarms of poems, literary magazines, dramatic plays, resultant so far from American intellect,
and the formation of our best ideas, are useless and a mockery. They strengthen and nourish
no one, express nothing characteristic, give decision and purpose to no one, and suffice only
the lowest level of vacant minds.

Of what is called the drama, or dramatic presentation in the United States, as now put forth
at the theatres, I should say it deserves to be treated with the same gravity, and on a par
with the questions of ornamental confectionery at public dinners, or the arrangement of curtains
and hangings in a ball-room--nor more, nor less. Of the other, I will not insult the reader's
intelligence, (once really entering into the atmosphere of these Vistas,) by supposing it necessary
to show, in detail, why the copious dribble, either of our little or well-known rhymesters,
does not fulfil, in any respect, the needs and august occasions of this land. America demands
a poetry that is bold, modern, and all-surrounding and kosmical, as she is herself. It must
in no respect ignore science or the modern, but inspire itself with science and the modern.
It must bend its vision toward the future, more than the past. Like America, it must extricate
itself from even the greatest models of the past, and, while courteous to them, must have entire
faith in itself, and the products of its own democratic spirit only. Like her, it must place
in the van, and hold up at all hazards, the banner of the divine pride of man in himself, (the
radical foundation of the new religion.) Long enough have the People been listening to poems
in which common humanity, deferential, bends low, humiliated, acknowledging superiors. But
America listens to no such poems. Erect, inflated, and fully self-esteeming be the chant; and
then America will listen with pleased ears.

Nor may the genuine gold, the gems, when brought to light at last, be probably usher'd forth
from any of the quarters currently counted on. To-day, doubtless, the infant genius of American
poetic expression, (eluding those highly-refined imported and gilt-edged themes, and sentimental
and butterfly flights, pleasant to orthodox publishers--causing tender spasms in the coteries,
and warranted not to chafe the sensitive cuticle of the most exquisitely artificial gossamer
delicacy,) lies sleeping far away, happily unrecognized and uninjur'd by the coteries, the
art-writers, the talkers and critics of the saloons, or the lecturers in the colleges--lies
sleeping, aside, unrecking itself, in some western idiom, or native Michigan or Tennessee repartee,
or stumpspeech--or in Kentucky or Georgia, or the Carolinas--or in some slang or local song
or allusion of the Manhattan, Boston, Philadelphia or Baltimore mechanic--or up in the Maine
woods--or off in the hut of the California miner, or crossing the Rocky mountains, or along
the Pacific railroad--or on the breasts of the young farmers of the northwest, or Canada, or
boatmen of the lakes. Rude and coarse nursing-beds, these; but only from such beginnings and
stocks, indigenous here, may haply arrive, be grafted, and sprout, in time, flowers of genuine
American aroma, and fruits truly and fully our own.

I say it were a standing disgrace to these States--I say it were a disgrace to any nation,
distinguish'd above others by the variety and vastness of its territories, its materials, its
inventive activity, and the splendid practicality of its people, not to rise and soar above
others also in its original styles in literature and art, and its own supply of intellectual
and esthetic masterpieces, archetypal, and consistent with itself. I know not a land except
ours that has not, to some extent, however small, made its title clear. The Scotch have their
born ballads, subtly expressing their past and present, and expressing character. The Irish
have theirs. England, Italy, France, Spain, theirs. What has America? With exhaustless mines
of the richest ore of epic, lyric, tale, tune, picture, etc., in the Four Years' War; with,
indeed, I sometimes think, the richest masses of material ever afforded a nation, more variegated,
and on a larger scale--the first sign of proportionate, native, imaginative Soul, and first-class
works to match, is, (I cannot too often repeat,) so far wanting.

Long ere the second centennial arrives, there will be some forty to fifty great States, among
them Canada and Cuba. When the present century closes, our population will be sixty or seventy
millions. The Pacific will be ours, and the Atlantic mainly ours. There will be daily electric
communication with every part of the globe. What an age! What a land! Where, elsewhere, one
so great? The individuality of one nation must then, as always, lead the world. Can there be
any doubt who the leader ought to be? Bear in mind, though, that nothing less than the mightiest
original non-subordinated SOUL has ever really, gloriously led, or ever can lead. (This Soul--its
other name, in these Vistas, is LITERATURE.)

In fond fancy leaping those hundred years ahead, let us survey America's works, poems, philosophies,
fulfilling prophecies, and giving form and decision to best ideals. Much that is now undream'd
of, we might then perhaps see establish'd, luxuriantly cropping forth, richness, vigor of letters
and of artistic expression, in whose products character will be a main requirement, and not
merely erudition or elegance.

Intense and loving comradeship, the personal and passionate attachment of man to man--which,
hard to define, underlies the lessons and ideals of the profound saviours of every land and
age, and which seems to promise, when thoroughly develop'd, cultivated and recognized in manners
and literature, the most substantial hope and safety of the future of these States, will then
be fully express'd.[29]

A strong fibred joyousness and faith, and the sense of health al fresco, may well enter into
the preparation of future noble American authorship. Part of the test of a great literatus
shall be the absence in him of the idea of the covert, the lurid, the maleficent, the devil,
the grim estimates inherited from the Puritans, hell, natural depravity, and the like. The
great literatus will be known, among the rest, by his cheerful simplicity, his adherence to
natural standards, his limitless faith in God, his reverence, and by the absence in him of
doubt, ennui, burlesque, persiflage, or any strain'd and temporary fashion.

Nor must I fail, again and yet again, to clinch, reiterate more plainly still, (O that indeed
such survey as we fancy, may show in time this part completed also!) the lofty aim, surely
the proudest and the purest, in whose service the future literatus, of whatever field, may
gladly labor. As we have intimated, offsetting the material civilization of our race, our nationality,
its wealth, territories, factories, population, products, trade, and military and naval strength,
and breathing breath of life into all these, and more, must be its moral civilization--the
formulation, expression, and aidancy whereof, is the very highest height of literature. The
climax of this loftiest range of civilization, rising above all the gorgeous shows and results
of wealth, intellect, power, and art, as such--above even theology and religious fervor--is
to be its development, from the eternal bases, and the fit expression, of absolute Conscience,
moral soundness, Justice. Even in religious fervor there is a touch of animal heat. But moral
conscientiousness, crystalline, without flaw, not Godlike only, entirely human, awes and enchants
forever. Great is emotional love, even in the order of the rational universe. But, if we must
make gradations, I am clear there is something greater. Power, love, veneration, products,
genius, esthetics, tried by subtlest comparisons, analyses, and in serenest moods, somewhere
fail, somehow become vain. Then noiseless, withflowing steps, the lord, the sun, the last ideal
comes. By the names right, justice, truth, we suggest, but do not describe it. To the world
of men it remains a dream, an idea as they call it. But no dream is it to the wise--but the
proudest, almost only solid, lasting thing of all. Its analogy in the material universe is
what holds together this world, and every object upon it, and carries its dynamics on forever
sure and safe. Its lack, and the persistent shirking of it, as in life, sociology, literature,
politics, business, and even sermonizing, these times, or any times, still leaves the abysm,
the mortal flaw and smutch, mocking civilization to-day, with all its unquestion'd triumphs,
and all the civilization so far known.[30]

Present literature, while magnificently fulfilling certain popular demands, with plenteous
knowledge and verbal smartness, is profoundly sophisticated, insane, and its very joy is morbid.
It needs tally and express Nature, and the spirit of Nature, and to know and obey the standards.
I say the question of Nature, largely consider'd, involves the questions of the esthetic, the
emotional, and the religious--and involves happiness. A fitly born and bred race, growing up
in right conditions of out-door as much as in-door harmony, activity and development, would
probably, from and in those conditions, find it enough merely to live--and would, in their
relations to the sky, air, water, trees, &c., and to the countless common shows, and in the
fact of life itself, discover and achieve happiness--with Being suffused night and day by wholesome
extasy, surpassing all the pleasures that wealth, amusement, and even gratified intellect,
erudition, or the sense of art, can give.

In the prophetic literature of these States, (the reader of my speculations will miss their
principal stress unless he allows well for the point that a new Literature, perhaps a new Metaphysics,
certainly a new Poetry, are to be, in my opinion, the only sure and worthy supports and expressions
of the American Democracy,) Nature, true Nature, and the true idea of Nature, long absent,
must, above all, become fully restored, enlarged, and must furnish the pervading atmosphere
to poems, and the test of all high literary and esthetic compositions. I do not mean the smooth
walks, trimm'd hedges, poseys and nightingales of the English poets, but the whole orb, with
its geologic history, the kosmos, carrying fire and snow, that rolls through the illimitable
areas, light as a feather, though weighing billions of tons. Furthermore, as by what we now
partially call Nature is intended, at most, only what is entertainable by the physical conscience,
the sense of matter, and of good animal health--on these it must be distinctly accumulated,
incorporated, that man, comprehending these, has, in towering superaddition, the moral and
spiritual consciences, indicating his destination beyond the ostensible, the mortal.

To the heights of such estimate of Nature indeed ascending, we proceed to make observations
for our Vistas, breathing rarest air. What is I believe called Idealism seems to me to suggest,
(guarding against extravagance, and ever modified even by its opposite,) the course of inquiry
and desert of favor for our New World metaphysics, their foundation of and in literature, giving
hue to all.[31]

The elevating and etherealizing ideas of the unknown and of unreality must be brought forward
with authority, as they are the legitimate heirs of the known, and of reality, and at least
as great as their parents. Fearless of scoffing, and of the ostent, let us take our stand,
our ground, and never desert it, to confront the growing excess and arrogance of realism. To
the cry, now victorious--the cry of sense, science, flesh, incomes, farms, merchandise, logic,
intellect, demonstrations, solid perpetuities, buildings of brick and iron, or even the facts
of the shows of trees, earth, rocks, &c., fear not, my brethren, my sisters, to sound out with
equally determin'd voice, that conviction brooding within the recesses of every envision'd
soul--illusions! apparitions! figments all! True, we must not condemn the show, neither absolutely
deny it, for the indispensability of its meanings; but how clearly we see that, migrate in
soul to what we can already conceive of superior and spiritual points of view, and, palpable
as it seems under present relations, it all and several might, nay certainly would, fall apart
and vanish.

I hail with joy the oceanic, variegated, intense practical energy, the demand for facts, even
the business materialism of the current age, our States. But we to the age or land in which
these things, movements, stopping at themselves, do not tend to ideas. As fuel to flame, and
flame to the heavens, so must wealth, science, materialism--even this democracy of which we
make so much--unerringly feed the highest mind, the soul. Infinitude the flight: fathomless
the mystery. Man, so diminutive, dilates beyond the sensible universe, competes with, outcopes
space and time, meditating even one great idea. Thus, and thus only, does a human being, his
spirit, ascend above, and justify, objective Nature, which, probably nothing in itself, is
incredibly and divinely serviceable, indispensable, real, here. And as the purport of objective
Nature is doubtless folded, hidden, somewhere here--as somewhere here is what this globe and
its manifold forms, and the light of day, and night's darkness, and life itself, with all its
experiences, are for--it is here the great literature, especially verse, must get its inspiration
and throbbing blood. Then may we attain to a poetry worthy the immortal soul of man, and widen,
while absorbing materials, and, in their own sense, the shows of Nature, will, above all, have,
both directly and indirectly, a freeing, fluidizing, expanding, religious character, exulting
with science, fructifying the moral elements, and stimulating aspirations, and meditations
on the unknown.

The process, so far, is indirect and peculiar, and though it may be suggested, cannot be defined.
Observing, rapport, and with intuition, the shows and forms presented by Nature, the sensuous
luxuriance, the beautiful in living men and women, the actual play of passions, in history
and life--and, above all, from those developments either in Nature or human personality in
which power, (dearest of all to the sense of the artist,) transacts itself-out of these, and
seizing what is in them, the poet, the esthetic worker in any field, by the divine magic of
his genius, projects them, their analogies, by curious removes, indirections, in literature
and art. (No useless attempt to repeat the material creation, by daguerreotyping the exact
likeness by mortal mental means.) This is the image-making faculty, coping with material creation,
and rivaling, almost triumphing over it. This alone, when all the other parts of a specimen
of literature or art are ready and waiting, can breathe into it the breath of life, and endow
it with identity.

"The true question to ask," says the librarian of Congress in a paper read before the Social
Science Convention at New York, October, 1869, "The true question to ask respecting a book,
is, has it help'd any human soul?" This is the hint, statement, not only of the great literatus,
his book, but of every great artist. It may be that all works of art are to be first tried
by their art qualities, their image-forming talent, and their dramatic, pictorial, plot-constructing,
euphonious and other talents. Then, whenever claiming to be first-class works, they are to
be strictly and sternly tried by their foundation in, and radiation, in the highest sense,
and always indirectly, of the ethic principles, and eligibility to free, arouse, dilate.

As, within the purposes of the Kosmos, and vivifying all meteorology, and all the congeries
of the mineral, vegetable and animal worlds--all the physical growth and development of man,
and all the history of the race in politics, religions, wars, &c., there is a moral purpose,
a visible or invisible intention, certainly underlying all--its results and proof needing to
be patiently waited for--needing intuition, faith, idiosyncrasy, to its realization, which
many, and especially the intellectual, do not have--so in the product, or congeries of the
product, of the greatest literatus. This is the last, profoundest measure and test of a first-class
literary or esthetic achievement, and when understood and put in force must fain, I say, lead
to works, books, nobler than any hitherto known. Lo! Nature, (the only complete, actual poem,)
existing calmly in the divine scheme, containing all, content, careless of the criticisms of
a day, or these endless and wordy chatterers. And lo! to the consciousness of the soul, the
permanent identity, the thought, the something, before which the magnitude even of democracy,
art, literature, &c., dwindles, becomes partial, measurable--something that fully satisfies,
(which those do not.) That something is the All, and the idea of All, with the accompanying
idea of eternity, and of itself, the soul, buoyant, indestructible, sailing space forever,
visiting every region, as a ship the sea. And again lo! the pulsations in all matter, all spirit,
throbbing forever--the eternal beats, eternal systole and diastole of life in things--wherefrom
I feel and know that death is not the ending, as was thought, but rather the real beginning--and
that nothing ever is or can be lost, nor ever die, nor soul, nor matter.

In the future of these States must arise poets immenser far, and make great poems of death.
The poems of life are great, but there must be the poems of the purports of life, not only
in itself, but beyond itself. I have eulogized Homer, the sacred bards of Jewry, Eschylus,
Juvenal, Shakspere, &c., and acknowledged their inestimable value. But, (with perhaps the exception,
in some, not all respects, of the second-mention'd,) I say there must, for future and democratic
purposes, appear poets, (dare I to say so?) of higher class even than any of those--poets not
only possess'd of the religious fire and abandon of Isaiah, luxuriant in the epic talent of
Homer, or for proud characters as in Shakspere, but consistent with the Hegelian formulas,
and consistent with modern science. America needs, and the world needs, a class of bards who
will, now and ever, so link and tally the rational physical being of man, with the ensembles
of time and space, and with this vast and multiform show, Nature, surrounding him, ever tantalizing
him, equally a part, and yet not a part of him, as to essentially harmonize, satisfy, and put
at rest. Faith, very old, now scared away by science, must be restored, brought back by the
same power that caused her departure--restored with new sway, deeper, wider, higher than ever.
Surely, this universal ennui, this coward fear, this shuddering at death, these low, degrading
views, are not always to rule the spirit pervading future society, as it has the past, and
does the present. What the Roman Lucretius sought most nobly, yet all too blindly, negatively
to do for his age and its successors, must be done positively by some great coming literatus,
especially poet, who, while remaining fully poet, will absorb whatever science indicates, with
spiritualism, and out of them, and out of his own genius, will compose the great poem of death.
Then will man indeed confront Nature, and confront time and space, both with science, and con
amore, and take his right place, prepared for life, master of fortune and misfortune. And then
that which was long wanted will be supplied, and the ship that had it not before in all her
voyages, will have an anchor.

There are still other standards, suggestions, for products of high literatuses. That which
really balances and conserves the social and political world is not so much legislation, police,
treaties, and dread of punishment, as the latent eternal intuitional sense, in humanity, of
fairness, manliness, decorum, &c. Indeed, this perennial regulation, control, and oversight,
by self-suppliance, is sine qua non to democracy; and a highest widest aim of democratic literature
may well be to bring forth, cultivate, brace, and strengthen this sense, in individuals and
society. A strong mastership of the general inferior self by the superior self, is to be aided,
secured, indirectly, but surely, by the literatus, in his works, shaping, for individual or
aggregate democracy, a great passionate body, in and along with which goes a great masterful
spirit.

And still, providing for contingencies, I fain confront the fact, the need of powerful native
philosophs and orators and bards, these States, as rallying points to come, in times of danger,
and to fend off ruin and defection. For history is long, long, long. Shift and turn the combinations
of the statement as we may, the problem of the future of America is in certain respects as
dark as it is vast. Pride, competition, segregation, vicious wilfulness, and license beyond
example, brood already upon us. Unwieldy and immense, who shall hold in behemoth? who bridle
leviathan? Flaunt it as we choose, athwart and over the roads of our progress loom huge uncertainty,
and dreadful, threatening gloom. It is useless to deny it: Democracy grows rankly up the thickest,
noxious, deadliest plants and fruits of all--brings worse and worse invaders--needs newer,
larger, stronger, keener compensations and compellers.

Our lands, embracing so much, (embracing indeed the whole, rejecting none,) hold in their breast
that flame also, capable of consuming themselves, consuming us all. Short as the span of our
national life has been, already have death and downfall crowded close upon us--and will again
crowd close, no doubt, even if warded off. Ages to come may never know, but I know, how narrowly
during the late secession war--and more than once, and more than twice or thrice--our Nationality,
(wherein bound up, as in a ship in a storm, depended, and yet depend, all our best life, all
hope, all value,) just grazed, just by a hair escaped destruction. Alas! to think of them!
the agony and bloody sweat of certain of those hours! those cruel, sharp, suspended crises!

Even to-day, amid these whirls, incredible flippancy, and blind fury of parties, infidelity,
entire lack of first-class captains and leaders, added to the plentiful meanness and vulgarity
of the ostensible masses--that problem, the labor question, beginning to open like a yawning
gulf, rapidly widening every year--what prospect have we? We sail a dangerous sea of seething
currents, cross and under-currents, vortices--all so dark, untried--and whither shall we turn?

Yet I have dream'd, merged in that hidden-tangled problem of our fate, whose long unraveling
stretches mysteriously through time--dream'd out, portray'd, hinted already--a little or a
larger band--a band of brave and true, unprecedented yet--arm'd and equipt at every point--the
members separated, it may be, by different dates and States, or south, or north, or east, or
west--Pacific, Atlantic, Southern, Canadian--a year, a century here, and other centuries there--but
always one, compact in soul, conscience-conserving, God-inculcating, inspirid achievers, not
only in literature, the greatest art, but achievers in all art--a new, undying order, dynasty,
from age to age transmitted--a band, a class, at least as fit to cope with current years, our
dangers, needs, as those who, for their times, so long, so well, in armor or in cowl, upheld
and made illustrious, that far-back feudal, priestly world. To offset chivalry, indeed, those
vanish'd countless knights, old altars, abbeys, priests, ages and strings of ages, a knightlier
and more sacred cause to-day demands, and shall supply, in a New World, to larger, grander
work, more than the counterpart and tally of them.

Arrived now, definitely, at an apex for these Vistas, I confess that the promulgation and belief
in such a class or institution--a new and greater literatus order--its possibility, (nay certainty,)
underlies these entire speculations--and that the rest, the other parts, as superstructures,
are all founded upon it. It really seems to me the condition, not only of our future national
and democratic development, but of our perpetuation. In the highly artificial and materialistic
bases of modern civilization, with the corresponding arrangements and methods of living, the
force-infusion of intellect alone, the depraving influences of riches just as much as poverty,
the absence of all high ideals in character--with the long series of tendencies, shapings,
which few are strong enough to resist, and which now seem, with steam-engine speed, to be everywhere
turning out the generations of humanity like uniform iron castings--all of which, as compared
with the feudal ages, we can yet do nothing better than accept, make the best of, and even
welcome, upon the whole, for their oceanic practical grandeur, and their restless wholesale
kneading of the masses--I say of all this tremendous and dominant play of solely materialistic
bearings upon current life in the United States, with the results as already seen, accumulating,
and reaching far into the future, that they must either be confronted and met by at least an
equally subtle and tremendous force-infusion for purposes of spiritualization, for the pure
conscience, for genuine esthetics, and for absolute and primal manliness and womanliness--or
else our modern civilization, with all its improvements, is in vain, and we are on the road
to a destiny, a status, equivalent, in its real world, to that of the fabled damned.

Prospecting thus the coming unsped days, and that new order in them--marking the endless train
of exercise, development, unwind, in nation as in man, which life is for--we see, fore-indicated,
amid these prospects and hopes, new law-forces of spoken and written language--not merely the
pedagogue-forms, correct, regular, familiar with precedents, made for matters of outside propriety,
fine words, thoughts definitely told out--but a language fann'd by the breath of Nature, which
leaps overhead, cares mostly for impetus and effects, and for what it plants and invigorates
to grow--tallies life and character, and seldomer tells a thing than suggests or necessitates
it. In fact, a new theory of literary composition for imaginative works of the very first class,
and especially for highest poems, is the sole course open to these States. Books are to be
call'd for, and supplied, on the assumption that the process of reading is not a half-sleep,
but, in highest sense, an exercise, a gymnast's struggle; that the reader is to do something
for himself, must be on the alert, must himself or herself construct indeed the poem, argument,
history, metaphysical essay--the text furnishing the hints, the clue, the start or frame-work.
Not the book needs so much to be the complete thing, but the reader of the book does. That
were to make a nation of supple and athletic minds, well-train'd, intuitive, used to depend
on themselves, and not on a few coteries of writers.

