He was born at Hogsnorton, where, according to popular saying, the pigs play upon the organ;
a proverb which he interpreted allegorically, as having reference to the herd of Epicurus,
of which litter Horace confessed himself a porker. His name of Erasmus he derived partly from
his father having been the son of a renowned washerwoman, who had held that great scholar in
clean linen all the while he was at Oxford; a task of some difficulty, as he was only possessed
of two shirts, "the one," as she expressed herself, "to wash the other," The vestiges of one
of these CAMICIAE, as Master Holiday boasted, were still in his possession, having fortunately
been detained by his grandmother to cover the balance of her bill. But he thought there was
a still higher and overruling cause for his having had the name of Erasmus conferred on him--namely,
the secret presentiment of his mother's mind that, in the babe to be christened, was a hidden
genius, which should one day lead him to rival the fame of the great scholar of Amsterdam.
The schoolmaster's surname led him as far into dissertation as his Christian appellative. He
was inclined to think that he bore the name of Holiday QUASI LUCUS A NON LUCENDO, because he
gave such few holidays to his school. "Hence," said he, "the schoolmaster is termed, classically,
LUDI MAGISTER, because he deprives boys of their play." And yet, on the other hand, he thought
it might bear a very different interpretation, and refer to his own exquisite art in arranging
pageants, morris-dances, May-day festivities, and such-like holiday delights, for which he
assured Tressilian he had positively the purest and the most inventive brain in England; insomuch,
that his cunning in framing such pleasures had made him known to many honourable persons, both
in country and court, and especially to the noble Earl of Leicester. "And although he may now
seem to forget me," he said, "in the multitude of state affairs, yet I am well assured that,
had he some pretty pastime to array for entertainment of the Queen's Grace, horse and man would
be seeking the humble cottage of Erasmus Holiday. PARVO CONTENTUS, in the meanwhile, I hear
my pupils parse and construe, worshipful sir, and drive away my time with the aid of the Muses.
And I have at all times, when in correspondence with foreign scholars, subscribed myself Erasmus
ab Die Fausto, and have enjoyed the distinction due to the learned under that title: witness
the erudite Diedrichus Buckerschockius, who dedicated to me under that title his treatise on
the letter TAU. In fine, sir, I have been a happy and distinguished man."

"Long may it be so, sir!" said the traveller; "but permit me to ask, in your own learned phrase,
QUID HOC AD IPHYCLI BOVES? what has all this to do with the shoeing of my poor nag?"

"FESTINA LENTE," said the man of learning, "we will presently came to that point. You must
know that some two or three years past there came to these parts one who called himself Doctor
Doboobie, although it may be he never wrote even MAGISTER ARTIUM, save in right of his hungry
belly. Or it may be, that if he had any degrees, they were of the devil's giving; for he was
what the vulgar call a white witch, a cunning man, and such like.--Now, good sir, I perceive
you are impatient; but if a man tell not his tale his own way, how have you warrant to think
that he can tell it in yours?"

"Well, then, learned sir, take your way," answered Tressilian; "only let us travel at a sharper
pace, for my time is somewhat of the shortest."

"Well, sir," resumed Erasmus Holiday, with the most provoking perseverance, "I will not say
that this same Demetrius for so he wrote himself when in foreign parts, was an actual conjurer,
but certain it is that he professed to be a brother of the mystical Order of the Rosy Cross,
a disciple of Geber (EX NOMINE CUJUS VENIT VERBUM VERNACULUM, GIBBERISH). He cured wounds by
salving the weapon instead of the sore; told fortunes by palmistry; discovered stolen goods
by the sieve and shears; gathered the right maddow and the male fern seed, through use of which
men walk invisible; pretended some advances towards the panacea, or universal elixir; and affected
to convert good lead into sorry silver."

"In other words," said Tressilian, "he was a quacksalver and common cheat; but what has all
this to do with my nag, and the shoe which he has lost?"

"With your worshipful patience," replied the diffusive man of letters, "you shall understand
that presently--PATENTIA then, right worshipful, which word, according to our Marcus Tullius,
is 'DIFFICILIUM RERUM DIURNA PERPESSIO.' This same Demetrius Doboobie, after dealing with the
country, as I have told you, began to acquire fame INTER MAGNATES, among the prime men of the
land, and there is likelihood he might have aspired to great matters, had not, according to
vulgar fame (for I aver not the thing as according with my certain knowledge), the devil claimed
his right, one dark night, and flown off with Demetrius, who was never seen or heard of afterwards.
Now here comes the MEDULLA, the very marrow, of my tale. This Doctor Doboobie had a servant,
a poor snake, whom he employed in trimming his furnace, regulating it by just measure--compounding
his drugs--tracing his circles--cajoling his patients, ET SIC ET CAETERIS. Well, right worshipful,
the Doctor being removed thus strangely, and in a way which struck the whole country with terror,
this poor Zany thinks to himself, in the words of Maro, 'UNO AVULSO, NON DEFICIT ALTER;' and,
even as a tradesman's apprentice sets himself up in his master's shop when he is dead or hath
retired from business, so doth this Wayland assume the dangerous trade of his defunct master.
But although, most worshipful sir, the world is ever prone to listen to the pretensions of
such unworthy men, who are, indeed, mere SALTIM BANQUI and CHARLATANI, though usurping the
style and skill of doctors of medicine, yet the pretensions of this poor Zany, this Wayland,
were too gross to pass on them, nor was there a mere rustic, a villager, who was not ready
to accost him in the sense of Persius, though in their own rugged words,--

     DILIUS HELLEBORUM CERTO COMPESCERE PUNCTO
     NESCIUS EXAMEN?  VETAT HOC NATURA VEDENDI;

which I have thus rendered in a poor paraphrase of mine own,--

     Wilt thou mix hellebore, who dost not know
     How many grains should to the mixture go?
     The art of medicine this forbids, I trow.

"Moreover, the evil reputation of the master, and his strange and doubtful end, or at least
sudden disappearance, prevented any, excepting the most desperate of men, to seek any advice
or opinion from the servant; wherefore, the poor vermin was likely at first to swarf for very
hunger. But the devil that serves him, since the death of Demetrius or Doboobie, put him on
a fresh device. This knave, whether from the inspiration of the devil, or from early education,
shoes horses better than e'er a man betwixt us and Iceland; and so he gives up his practice
on the bipeds, the two-legged and unfledged species called mankind, and betakes him entirely
to shoeing of horses."

"Indeed! and where does he lodge all this time?" said Tressilian. "And does he shoe horses
well? Show me his dwelling presently."

The interruption pleased not the Magister, who exclaimed, "O CAECA MENS MORTALIUM!--though,
by the way, I used that quotation before. But I would the classics could afford me any sentiment
of power to stop those who are so willing to rush upon their own destruction. Hear but, I pray
you, the conditions of this man," said he, in continuation, "ere you are so willing to place
yourself within his danger--"

