"I mean, if only one of us two could go to heaven, I had rather it should be him than me,"
said Mary.

"Oh, child! child!" said Mrs. Scudder, with a sort of groan,--"has it gone with you so far
as this? Poor child!--after all my care, you are in love with this boy,--your heart is set on him."

"Mother, I am not. I never expect to see him much,--never expect to marry him or anybody else;--only
he seems to me to have so much more life and soul and spirit than most people,--I think him
so noble and grand,--that is, that he could be, if he were all he ought to be,--that, somehow,
I never think of myself in thinking of him, and his salvation seems worth more than mine;--men
can do so much more!--they can live such splendid lives!--oh, a real noble man is so glorious!"

"And you would like to see him well married, would you not?" said Mrs. Scudder, sending, with
a true woman's aim, this keen arrow into the midst of the cloud of enthusiasm which enveloped
her daughter. "I think," she added, "that Jane Spencer would make him an excellent wife."

Mary was astonished at a strange, new pain that shot through her at these words. She drew in
her breath and turned herself uneasily, as one who had literally felt a keen dividing blade
piercing between soul and spirit. Till this moment, she had never been conscious of herself;
but the shaft had torn the veil. She covered her face with her hands; the hot blood flushed
scarlet over neck and brow; at last, with a beseeching look, she threw herself into her mother's
arms.

"Oh, mother, mother, I am selfish, after all!"

Mrs. Scudder folded her silently to her heart, and said, "My daughter, this is not at all what
I wished it to be; I see how it is;--but then you have been a good child; I don't blame you.
We can't always help ourselves. We don't always really know how we do feel. I didn't know,
for a long while, that I loved your father. I thought I was only curious about him, because
he had a strange way of treating me, different from other men; but, one day, I remember, Julian
Simons told me that it was reported that his mother was making a match for him with Susan Emery,
and I was astonished to find how I felt. I saw him that evening, and the moment he looked at
me I saw it wasn't true; all at once I knew something I never knew before,--and that was, that
I should be very unhappy, if he loved any one else better than me. But then, my child, your
father was a different man from James;--he was as much better than I was as you are than James.
I was a foolish, thoughtless young thing then. I never should have been anything at all, but
for him. Somehow, when I loved him, I grew more serious, and then he always guided and led
me. Mary, your father was a wonderful man; he was one of the sort that the world knows not
of;--sometime I must show you his letters. I always hoped, my daughter, that you would marry
such a man."

"Don't speak of marrying, mother. I never shall marry."

"You certainly should not, unless you can marry in the Lord.

"Mother, James is not an infidel."

"He certainly is an unbeliever, Mary, by his own confession;--but then God is a Sovereign and
hath mercy on whom He will. You do right to pray for him; but if he does not come out on the
Lord's side, you must not let your heart mislead you. He is going to be gone three years, and
you must try to think as little of him as possible;--put your mind upon your duties, like a
good girl, and God will bless you. Don't believe too much in your power over him;--young men,
when they in love, will promise anything, and really think they mean it; but nothing is a saving
change, except what is wrought in them by sovereign grace."

"But, mother, does not God use the love we have to each other as a means of doing us good?
Did you not say that it was by your love to father that you first were led to think seriously?"

"That is true, my child," said Mrs. Scudder, who, like many of the rest of the world, was surprised
to meet her own words walking out on a track where she had not expected them, but was yet too
true of soul to cut their acquaintance because they were not going the way of her wishes. "Yes,
all that is true; but yet, Mary, when one has but one little ewe lamb in the world, one is
jealous of it. I would give all the world, if you had never seen James. It is dreadful enough
for a woman to love anybody as you can, but it is more to love a man of unsettled character
and no religion. But then the Lord appoints all our goings; it is not in man that walketh to
direct his steps;--I leave you, my child, in His hands." And, with one solemn and long embrace,
the mother and daughter parted for the night.

It is impossible to write a story of New England life and manners for a thoughtless, shallow-minded
person. If we represent things as they are, their intensity, their depth, their unworldly gravity
and earnestness, must inevitably repel lighter spirits, as the reverse pole of the magnet drives
off sticks and straws.

In no other country were the soul and the spiritual life ever such intense realities, and everything
contemplated so much (to use a current New England phrase) "in reference to eternity." Mrs.
Scudder was a strong, clear-headed, practical woman. No one had a clearer estimate of the material
and outward life, or could more minutely manage its smallest item; but then a tremendous, eternal
future had so weighed down and compacted the fibres of her very soul, that all earthly things
were but as dust in comparison to it. That her child should be one elected to walk in white,
to reign with Christ when earth was a forgotten dream, was her one absorbing wish; and she
looked on all the events of life only with reference to this. The way of life was narrow, the
chances in favor of any child of Adam infinitely small; the best, the most seemingly pure and
fair, was by nature a child of wrath, and could be saved only by a sovereign decree, by which
it should be plucked as a brand from the burning. Therefore it was, that, weighing all things
in one balance, there was the sincerity of her whole being in the dread which she felt at the
thought of her daughter's marriage with an unbeliever.

Mrs. Scudder, after retiring to her room, took her Bible, in preparation for her habitual nightly
exercise of devotion, before going to rest. She read and reread a chapter, scarce thinking
what she was reading,--aroused herself,--and then sat with the book in her hand in deep thought.
James Marvyn was her cousin's son, and she had a strong feeling of respect and family attachment
for his father. She had, too, a real kindness for the young man, whom she regarded as a well-meaning,
wilful youngster; but that he should touch her saint, her Mary, that he should take from her
the daughter who was her all, really embittered her heart towards him.

"After all," she said to herself, "there are three years,--three years in which there will
be no letters, or perhaps only one or two,--and a great deal may be done in three years, if
one is wise";--and she felt within herself an arousing of all the shrewd womanly and motherly
tact of her nature to meet this new emergency. The influence of the Normans in Romanizing our
language has been vastly overrated. We find a principle of caste established in certain cases
by the relation of producer and consumer,--in others by the superior social standing of the
conquering race. Thus, ox, sheep, calf, swine, indicate the thing produced; beef, mutton, veal,
pork, the thing consumed.[5] It is the same with the names of the various grains, and the product
of the cheaper kinds when ground,--as oat-meal, barley-meal, rye-meal; while the generic term
for the crop becomes grain, and the meal of the variety used by the higher classes is turned
into flour. To bury remains Saxon, because both high and low must be hidden under ground at
last; but as only the rich and noble could afford any pomp in that sad office, we get the word
funeral from the Norman. So also the serf went into a Saxon grave, the lord into a Norman tomb.
All the parts of armor are naturally named from the French; the weapons of the people, as sword,
bow, and the like, continued Saxon. So feather is Saxon; but as soon as it changes into a plume
for the knight, it turns Norman,--and Latin when it is cut into a pen for the clerk. Book is
Saxon; but a number of books collected together, as could be done only by the rich, makes a
library. Darling would be murmured over many a cradle in Saxon huts; but minion came into the
language down the back stairs of the Norman palace. In the same way, terms of law are Norman,
and of the Church, Latin. These are familiar examples.

We do not, therefore, agree with Mr. Matthew Arnold, that the extravagance of thought and diction
which characterizes much of our modern poetry is traceable to the influence of Shakspeare.
That the "Tempest" was his latest work we have no doubt; and perhaps it is not considering
too nicely to conjecture a profound personal meaning in it.

It would be unreasonable to expect a union of all these qualifications in a single man, but
we think that Mr. White combines them in larger proportion than any editor with whose labors
we are acquainted. He has an acuteness in tracing the finer fibres of thought worthy of the
keenest lawyer on the scent of a devious trail of circumstantial evidence; he has a sincere
desire to illustrate his author rather than himself; he is a man of the world, as well as a
scholar; he comprehends the mastery of imagination, and that it is the essential element as
well of poetry as of profound thinking; a critic of music, he appreciates the importance of
rhythm as the higher mystery of versification. The sum of his qualifications is large, and
his work is honorable to American letters.

Though our own studies have led us to somewhat intimate acquaintance with Elizabethan literature,
it is with some diffidence that we bring the criticism of dilettanti to bear upon the labors
of five years of serious investigation. We fortify ourselves, however, with Dr. Johnson's dictum
on the subject of Criticism:--"Why, no, Sir; this is not just reasoning. You may abuse a tragedy,
though you cannot make one. Not that we intend to abuse Mr. White's edition of Shakspeare,
but we shall speak of what seem to us its merits and defects with the frankness which alone
justifies criticism.

We have spoken of Mr. White's remarkable qualifications. We shall now state shortly what seem
to us his faults. We think his very acumen sometimes misleads him into fancying a meaning where
none exists, or at least none answerable to the clarity and precision of Shakspeare's intellect;
that he is too hasty in his conclusions as to the pronunciation of words and the accuracy of
rhymes in Shakspeare's day, and that he has been seduced into them by what we cannot help thinking
a mistaken theory as to certain words, as moth and nothing, for example; that he shows, here
and there, a glimpse of Americanism, especially misplaced in an edition of the poet whose works
do more than anything else, perhaps, to maintain the sympathy of the English race; and that
his prejudice against the famous corrected folio of 1632 leads him to speak slightingly of
Mr. Colier, to whom all lovers of our early literature are indebted, and who alone, in the
controversy excited in England by the publication of his anonymous corrector's emendations,
showed, under the most shameful provocation, the temper of a gentleman and the self-respect
of a scholar. But after all these deductions, we remain of the opinion that Mr. White has given
us the best edition hitherto published, and we do not like him the less for an occasional crotchet.
For though Shakspeare himself seemed to think with regret that the dirge of the hobby-horse
had been sung, yet, as we ourselves have given evidence, it is impossible for any one to write
on this subject without taking an occasional airing on one or more of those imaginary steeds
that stand at livery with no risk of eating off their own heads. We shall take up the subject
again in our next number, and by extracts justify both our commendation and our criticisms
of Mr. White.

[Footnote 1: The Works of William Shakspeare. Dante, de Vulg. Eloquio, Lib.

A History of Philip the Second, King of Spain. By WILLIAM H. PRESCOTT. Vol. III. Boston: Phillips,
Sampson, & Co. 1858.

A cordial welcome from many quarters will greet this third instalment of a work which promises,
when completed, to be the most valuable contribution to European history ever made by an American
scholar. This will in part be owing to the importance of the subject, which, though professing
to be the history of a single country and a single reign, is in fact the great program of the
politics of Christendom, and of more than Christendom, during a period when the struggles of
rival powers and of hostile principles and creeds kept the world in agitation and prolonged
suspense,--when Romanism and Reform, the Crescent and the Cross, despotic power and constitutional
freedom, were contending for mastery, and no government or nation could stand wholly aloof
from a contest in which the fate, not of empires alone, but of civilization, was involved.
Spain, during that period, was the bulwark of the Church against the attacks of the Reformers,
and the bulwark of Christendom against the attacks of the Moslem. The power of Spain towered
high above that of every other monarchy; and this power was wielded with absolute authority
by the king. The Spanish nation was united and animated by an intense, unwavering devotion
to the ancient faith, which was entwined with all the roots of the national life,--which was
Spanish, in fact, far more than it was Italian; and of this spirit Philip the Second was the
fitting representative, not merely from his position, but from his education, his intellect,
and his character. Therefore it is that the historian of this single country and this single
reign, standing upon a central eminence, must survey and depict the whole vast field of which
we have spoken.

The materials for such a survey are abundant. But down to a very recent period, the most valuable
and authentic portion of them--letters of the actors, records, written not from hearsay, but
from personal knowledge, documents of various kinds, private and official, that fill up the
hiatuses, correct the conjectures, establish the credibility, and give a fresh meaning to the
relations of the earlier writers--were neglected or concealed, inaccessible, unexplored, all
but unknown. Now these hidden sources have been revealed. A flood of light streams back upon
that bygone age, filling every obscure nook, making legible and plain what before could neither
be read nor understood. Or rather, the effect is such as when distant objects, seen dimly and
confusedly with the naked eye, are brought within the range of a powerful telescope, which
dissolves the seeming masses, and enables us to scrutinize each separate form.

Glance for a moment through this instrument, so adjusted as to bear upon a figure not undeserving
of a closer study. Night has fallen on the bleak and sombre scenery of the Sierra Guadarrama.
The gray outlines of the Escorial are scarcely distinguishable from those of the dusky hills
amid which it stands. No light is thrown forth from its eleven thousand windows, save in this
retreating angle formed by the junction of the palace with the convent, or--to speak according
to the architect's symbolical design--of the "handle" with the "gridiron." The apartment from
which this feeble ray emerges is of small size,--not more than sixteen feet square,--but having
on two sides arched recesses that somewhat increase its capacity. One of these alcoves contains
a bed, and a door opening into an adjoining oratory, which has immediate communication with
the chancel of the great church, so that an occupant of the bed might, if supported in a sitting
posture, have a view of the high altar and witness the elevation of the host. This alcove is
decked with many little images of saints, which, with a few small pictures, of rare beauty,--the
subjects all of a religious character,--and two cabinets of a curious, agate-colored marble,
a product of the New World,--are the only ornaments that relieve the extreme simplicity of
the apartment, with its plain white walls and floor of brick. The other alcove is occupied
by a writing-table, where sits, intent on the employment that consumes by far the greater portion
of his time, the potent monarch of Spain, the "most pious and most prudent" Philip the Second.
A drowsy secretary, who waits for the completion of the document which he is to copy, is his
only attendant.

Does it not seem strange that ambassadors and nuncios should become confused and lose all recollection
of the addresses they had committed to memory, in the presence of a prince whose exterior so
ill accords with the grandeur of his titles and the vastness of his power? His form is below
the middle height and very slender, the limbs having even an attenuated look. The whole appearance
is that of a man of delicate and even feeble organization. The blonde complexion, the pale
blue eyes, and the light sandy hue--save where they are prematurely touched with gray--of the
hair, moustache, and short, pointed beard, all indicate the Flemish origin of one who would
fain be regarded as "wholly a Spaniard." The protruding under-jaw is another proof of his descent
from the Burgundian rulers of the Netherlands. The expression of the countenance, as we find
on a closer inspection, is not so easy to define. There is no variable play of light and shade
upon the features, no settled look of joy or sorrow, no trace of anger or of weariness. Is
it because the subject with which his pen is busied is too unimportant to call forth any emotion
in the writer? It may be a mere matter of routine, connected with the regular business of his
household or the ordinary affairs of state. But if it be an answer to the dispatch from Flanders
giving information of the outburst of iconoclasm and rebellion, or a subtly-conceived plan
for the secret execution of Montigny or the assassination of Escovedo, or an order for the
imprisonment--or the death--of the heir-apparent to the throne, you shall perceive nothing
in that face, unruffled as a mask, by which to conjecture the sentiment or purpose of the mind.
As little will he in the presence of others exhibit any signs of agitation on the reception
of extraordinary news, or the occurrence of some great event. The fleet which he sent out under
his brother, John of Austria, in conjunction with the Papal and Venetian armaments, to decide
by a single blow the long struggle with the Infidel,--all Europe awaiting the issue with trembling
anxiety and suspense,--has won a memorable and unexpected victory, and destroyed forever the
prestige of the Moslem power. An official, bursting with the intelligence, carries it to the
king, who is hearing a service in his private chapel. Without the slightest change of countenance,
Philip desires the priest, whose ear the thrilling whisper has reached, and who stands open-mouthed,
prepared to burst forth at once into the Te Deum, to proceed with the service; that ended,
he orders appropriate thanks to be offered up.

As in triumph, so in disaster. The armada, which had been baptized "Invincible," is destroyed.
The great navy collected from many states, equipped at the cost of an enormous treasure, manned
with the choicest troops of Spain and her subject dominions, lies scattered and wrecked along
the English shores, which it was sent forth to conquer. Again the sympathies of Europe are
excited to the highest pitch. Protestantism triumphs; Catholicism despairs. He who had most
at stake alone preserves his calmness, on hearing that all is lost. He neither frowns upon
his unfortunate generals nor murmurs against Providence. Again he orders thanks to be offered
up, for those who have been rescued from the general ruin,--for those, also, who in this holy
enterprise have lost their lives and joined eternal glory.

Neither does any private grief--the death of children, of a parent, or of a wife--move him
either to real or simulated agitation.[1] Nor will intense physical suffering overpower this
habitual stoicism. He has seen unmoved the agony of many victims. He will himself endure the
like without any outward manifestation of pain. In yonder bed he will one day suffer tortures
surpassing those to which he has so often consigned the heretic and the apostate Morisco; there
he will expire amid horrors that scarce ever before encompassed a death-bed;--but no groan
will reveal the weakness of the flesh; the soul, triumphant over nature, will bear aloft her
colors to the last, and plant them on the breach through which she passes into the unknown
eternity.

But while we have been thus discoursing, the king has finished his long dispatch, and now hands
it to the secretary. The latter, having vainly struggled with his sleepiness, has at length
begun to nod. Hearing his name pronounced, he starts to his feet, takes the document, which
is not yet dry, to sand it, and, desirous to show by his alertness that he has been all the
time wide awake, empties over it--the contents of the inkstand! Awkward individual!--there
he stands, dumfounded and aghast. His master quietly resumes his seat, procures fresh materials,
and, though it is long past midnight, begins his task anew with that incomparable patience
which is "his virtue."

The perfect equanimity on all occasions, which was the trait in Philip's character that most
impressed such of his contemporaries as were neither his adherents nor his enemies,--for example,
the Venetian envoys at his court,--was not produced by a single stroke of Nature's pencil,
but had a three-fold origin. In the education which, from his earliest years, had prepared
him for the business of reigning, the alpha, and the omega of every lesson had been the word
"dissimulation." Qui nescit dissimulare, nescit regnare. By this maxim it was not intended--at
least, openly or cynically--to impress on youthful royalty the duty and propriety of lying.
All it professed to inculcate was the necessity of wearing an habitual veil before the mind,
through which no thought or feeling should ever be discernible. Every politician, in the sixteenth
century, had learned that lesson. William of Orange, the best and purest statesman of the age,
was the greatest of all masters in the art of dissimulation. In vain might Granvelle strive
to pry into that bosom, to learn whether its designs were friendly or hostile to the plans
of tyranny. Not till it was extorted by events could the secret be discovered.

In the second place, Philip, as a Spaniard, and one whose manners were to furnish a model for
the Spanish court, had, of course, been trained to that demeanor which was regarded in Spain
as the distinctive mark of high breeding. "All the nobles of this court," writes an Italian
contemporary, "though amazingly ignorant and unlettered, maintain a certain haughty tranquillity
of manner which they term sosiego." Foreigners found it difficult to define a quality which
differed as much from the composure and self-possession everywhere characteristic of the gentleman
as Spartan endurance or Stoical apathy from ordinary fortitude or self-control. It was a glacier-like
repose, incrusting a mountain of pride. The beams, that gilded, might not thaw it; the storm
did but harden and extend it. It yielded only to the inner fires of arrogance and passion,
bursting through, at times, with irrepressible fury.

These occasional outbreaks were never witnessed in Philip.[2] He was exempted from them by
the third element which we proposed to notice, and which, as nature takes precedence of habit,
ought perhaps to have been the first. A Spaniard by birth and education, a Spaniard in his
sympathies and in his tastes, he had inherited, nevertheless, some of the peculiarities, intellectual
as well as moral, of the other race to which by his origin, and, as we have already said, by
his physical characteristics, he belonged. He had none of the more pleasing qualities of the
Netherlander; but he had the sluggish temper, the slow but laborious mind. "He is phlegmatic
as well from natural disposition as from will," remarks an Italian contemporary. "This king,"
says another Venetian minister, "is absolutely free from every kind of passion." The word "passion"
is here used in a strict, if not the most correct sense. Philip could, perhaps, love; that
he could hate is what no one has ever ventured to dispute; but never did either feeling, strong,
persistent, indestructible, though it might be, rise in turbulent waves around his soul. In
religion he was a bigot,--not a fanatic. "The tranquillity of my dominions and the security
of my crown," he said, "rest on an unqualified submission in all essential points to the authority
of the Holy See." In the same deliberate and impressive style, not in that of a wild and reckless
frenzy, is his famous saying, "Better not to reign at all than to reign over heretics." His
course in all matters of government was in conformity with the only chart by which he had been
taught to steer. He boasted that he was no innovator,--that he did but tread in the footsteps
of his father. Nor, though he ever kept his object steadily in view, did he press towards it
with undue haste. He was content that time should smooth away the difficulties in his path.
"Time and myself against any other two" was not the maxim of a man who looked to effect great
changes or who felt himself in danger of being driven from his course by the gusts of passion.

To a person of this character it mattered little, as far as the essentials of existence were
concerned, whether his life were passed upon a throne or at an attorney's desk. In the latter
situation, his fondness for using the pen would well have qualified him for the drudgery, his
admirable patience would have been sufficiently exercised, and the mischief he was able to
do would have been on a more contracted scale. On the throne, his labors, as his admirers tell
us, were those of "a poor clerk earning his bread," while his recreations were those of a Jeronymite
monk. His intercourse with mankind was limited to the narrowest range of which his position
would allow. Even with his ministers he preferred to communicate in writing. When he went abroad,
it was in a carriage so constructed as to screen him entirely from view, and to shut out the
world from his observation. He always entered Madrid after nightfall, and reached his palace
by streets that were the least frequented. He had an equally strong aversion to bodily exercise.
Such was his love of quiet and seclusion, that it was commonly believed he waited only for
a favorable opportunity to follow the example of his father, resign his power and withdraw
to a convent.[3]

In the volume before us are two chapters devoted to the character and personal habits of Philip,
a picture of his court, his method of transacting business, his chief advisers, the machinery
of his government, and his relations with his subjects. As usually happens, it is in details
of a personal and biographical kind that the author's investigations have been the most productive
of new discoveries. It is a question with some minds, whether such details are properly admitted
into history. The new luminary of moral and political science, the Verulam of the nineteenth
century, Mr. Henry Buckle, tells us that biography forms no part of history, that individual
character has little or no effect in determining the course of the world's affairs, and that
the historian's proper business is to exhibit those general laws, discoverable, by a strictly
scientific process of investigation, which act with controlling power upon human conduct and
govern the destinies of our race. We readily admit that the discovery of such laws would exceed
in importance every other having relation to man's present sphere of existence; and we heartily
wish that Mr. Buckle had made as near an approach to the discovery as he confidently believes
himself to have done. But even had he, instead of crude theories, unwarranted assumptions,
and a most lively but fallacious train of reasoning, presented us with a grand and solid philosophical
work, a true Novum Organon, he would still have left the department of literature which he
has so violently assailed in full possession of its present field. Our curiosity in regard
to the character and habits of the men who have played conspicuous parts on the stage of history
would have been not a whit diminished. The interest which men feel in the study of human character
is, perhaps, the most common feeling that induces them to read at all. It is to gratify that
feeling that the great majority of books are written. The mutual influences of mind upon mind--not
the influences of climate, food, the "aspects of Nature," thunder-storms, earthquakes, and
statistics--form, and will ever form, the great staple of literature. Mr. Buckle's own book
would not have been half so entertaining as it is, if he had not, with the most natural inconsistency,
plentifully besprinkled his pages with biographical details, some of which are not incorrect.
Lord Macaulay, whom Mr. Buckle is unable to eulogize with sufficient vehemence without a ludicrous
as well as irreverent application of Scriptural language, is of all writers the most profuse
in the description of individual peculiarities, neatly doing up each separate man in a separate
parcel with an appropriate label, and dismissing half his personages, like "ticket-of-leave
men," with a "character," and nothing more.

