Transcriber's note: Spellings are sometimes erratic. A few obvious misprints have been corrected,
but in general the original spelling has been retained. Accents in the French phrases are inconsistent,
and have not been standardised. Greek phrases have been transliterated, and are enclosed in
+ signs +anekdotoi+.}

BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

No. CCCXLVIII.    OCTOBER, 1844.    VOL. LVI.

CONTENTS.

    THE LIFE OF A DIPLOMATIST,                              401

    POEMS AND BALLADS OF GOETHE. NO. II.,                   417

    THE GREAT DROUGHT,                                      433

    A TENDER CONSCIENCE,                                    454

    THIERRY'S HISTORY OF THE GAULS,                         466

    THE WITCHFINDER. CONCLUSION,                            487

    MY LAST COURTSHIP; OR, LIFE IN LOUISIANA,               507

    GREECE UNDER THE ROMANS.

NO. CCCXLVIII.    OCTOBER, 1844.    VOL. LVI.

THE LIFE OF A DIPLOMATIST.{A}

This is one of those curious memoirs which, from time to time, start forth from the family
archives of public men, for the illustration of the past and the wisdom of the future. Nothing
can be more important to either the man of office or the man of reflection. Avoiding all the
theoretical portion of history, on which all men may be mistaken, they give us its facts, on
which no one can be deceived; detailing the course of personal events, they supply us with
the views of the most intelligent minds directly employed in the transactions, exhibit the
portraits of those minds, and point out to those who are to follow, the effect of vigour, intrepidity,
and knowledge, in overcoming the difficulties of nations.

The work on which we are about to make some remarks, is one of those productions which do especial
honour to the English aristocracy. It is the diplomatic career of the founder of a peerage;
compiled and published by the third in succession to the earldom. The noble editor, professing
to have done but little in this office of reverence and duty, has done much--he has paid due
honour to a manly, wise, and vigorous ancestor; and he has set a striking example to the young
nobility of his time. The libraries of every noble family of England contain similar records
of the highest value; and nothing could be at once more honourable to the memory of the gallant
and renowned who have passed away, or more important to posterity, than to give those documents
to the light, illustrated by the recollections of their noble descendants, and brought before
the public with the natural advantages of authenticity and authority.

Lord Malmesbury's career continued through one of the most interesting portions of the last
century; that which was the preparative for the great catastrophe of its close, the overthrow
of the French monarchy. He was in the service of his country, as a diplomatist, from 1768 to
1797; and for many succeeding years was in connexion with all the leading political characters
of a time singularly fertile in remarkable men. He was born at Salisbury in 1746, the descendant
of an old English family, possessed of property in Wiltshire. His father was an eminent scholar,
the author of Hermes, and other well known treatises on literary and philosophical subjects.
But the scholar was also a man of active public life. Entering into parliament, he was appointed
a lord of the treasury in 1763, and secretary and comptroller of the Queen's household some
years after. A bon-mot of one of the Townsends is recorded, on his taking his seat.

"Who is the new member?" asked Townsend.

"A Mr Harris, who has written on grammar and harmony."

"Then what brings him here, where he will hear neither?"

The son of such a man had public life before him as his natural source of distinction; and
Lord Malmesbury, late in life, (in 1800,) thus gracefully commemorated his gratitude. "To my
father's precepts and example I owe every good quality I have. To his reputation and his character,
I attribute my more than common success in life. It was those that introduced me with peculiar
advantage into the world. It was as his son that I first obtained friends and patrons. I had
nothing in myself; and I speak, at the distance of thirty-five years, not from affected modesty,
but from a powerful recollection of what there was to entitle me to notice. Once, indeed, placed
in a conspicuous and responsible situation, I was anxious to act becomingly in it. And even
here I recur with pleasure to the same grateful source; for while my father lived, which was
during the first twelve years of my public life, the strongest incentive I had to exert myself
was in the satisfaction I knew he would derive from any credit I might acquire; and the many
and distinguished honours which I have since received, have suffered a great diminution in
my esteem, from his being no longer a witness to them."

He was sent to Winchester, where he remained till he was sixteen. From Winchester he was transferred
to Oxford, where the discipline at that period was so relaxed, that his only surprise in after
life was at the success of so many of his companions, among whom were Charles Fox, North, Bishop
of Winchester, Lord Robert Spenser, Lord Auckland, and others, who had risen to rank of various
kinds. He left Oxford in 1765, and passed thirty-five years on the Continent. His lordship
here makes a striking observation on his own experience, which has been authenticated by every
intelligent and honest mind under the same circumstances--remarking that his foreign residence
was so far from making him undervalue England, that it raised it still higher in his estimation.
He adds--"Here I will make an assertion, grounded on experience and conviction, and which may
be applied as a never-failing test, that an Englishman who, after a long absence from England,
returns to it with feelings and sentiments partial to other countries, and adverse to his own,
has no real mind--is without the powers of discernment and plain easy comparison--and has no
title to enjoy the superior moral and local advantages to which he is born, but of which he
is insensible and unworthy."

As diplomacy was evidently the career marked out for him by his father, he was sent to study
at Leyden, where he remained a year. In the commencement of the century, Holland was the central
point of all European negotiations; and its schools became famous for languages and the study
of international law. The society among the higher orders of the country was the most intelligent
in Europe, consisting of ambassadors and scholars of the first character. After this year of
vigorous study, and some brief stay at home, he returned to the Continent, and made an extensive
tour of the north. In the autumn of this year he received his first diplomatic appointment,
in the mission to Spain. His success in the Falkland Island negotiation recommended him to
government, and he was appointed minister at Berlin--a very unusual distinction for a diplomatist
only twenty-four years old. But a still more important distinction now awaited him. In 1777
he was sent as minister to the court of the Empress Catharine, where he found himself involved
in all the craft of diplomacy with two of the most artful sovereigns that ever lived, Frederick
and Catharine. But difficulties only place talents in a more conspicuous point of view, and
he received from his government the highest reward then conferred upon a foreign minister,
the Order of the Bath, in 1780. The climate of Russia was at length found too severe for his
health, and he petitioned for his recall, which was granted, but with the honourable offer
of his choice of a mission either to Spain or the Hague; the former was the higher in rank,
but the latter the more important in activity. He unhesitatingly, and wisely, chose the embassy
to the Hague. In 1784, the Foxite administration fell, and Pitt was in the ascendant. Harris
had been at all times connected with Fox, and had constantly voted with him in the House; but
so high was the public sense of his ability, and such was the impartiality of Pitt's sense
of public duty, that he offered him the re-appointment to the Hague, which Harris, after consulting
Fox and the Duke of Portland as his political leaders, accepted. His services were peculiarly
required at this period, from the violent discussions which had arisen in Holland; and he either
originated, or perfected, the treaty of alliance between England, Holland, and Prussia, which
saved the Stadtholder for the time, and Holland probably from being made a French province.
His conduct was regarded with so much approbation by the allies, that he received from the
Prussian king leave to add the Prussian eagle to his arms, and from the Stadtholder, his motto,
"Je maintiendrai." From England he received the more substantial rewards of the peerage, by
the title of Baron Malmesbury, and the appointment of ambassador. But though he was a Whig,
he was one on the old English principle, and not on the new. In 1793, when in the midst of
revolutionary horrors, and after the murder of the unfortunate French king, Fox, in the spirit
of infatuation, declared himself ready to acknowledge the French republic, all the chief leaders
of the Whigs retired from the Opposition bench. The Duke of Portland, Lord Loughborough, Sir
Gilbert Elliott, Lord Spenser, and Lord Malmesbury, joined those distinguished persons; yet
without any apparent loss of friendship with Fox, whose manners retained personal friends even
when he had lost their political confidence. Frederick William, king of Prussia, a prince of
singularly undecided character, though of loud professions, being at this time suspected of
a leaning towards the revolutionists, Lord Malmesbury was immediately sent by Pitt to Berlin,
for the purpose of holding him to his good faith. He succeeded, to the extent of making the
king sign an additional treaty with England and Holland.

His next mission, if not one of more importance, was of still greater delicacy--it was to ask
the hand of the Duke of Brunswick's daughter for the Prince of Wales. This was a marriage by
compulsion, and the wrath of the prince fell upon the noble negotiator. He never forgave Lord
Malmesbury, and he quickly alienated himself from the princess: the unfortunate result is fully
known. In 1796, and 1797, Lord Malmesbury was engaged in the most important negotiation of
his life. The French Directory, probably for the purpose of exciting dissensions between Austria
and England, made a secret proposal of peace, which led to the mission of an ambassador. But
while Napoleon was pursuing his conquests in Italy, France had no actual desire of pacification.
The purpose was evidently to gain time; and Lord Malmesbury, on discovering the true nature
of the transaction, demanded his passports, and returned to England. It cannot be imputed to
Pitt, that he was ever negligent of those who had done the state service. Lord Malmesbury had
already obtained the Order of the Bath, and a barony; he was now raised to an earldom, with
a viscounty, by the title of Lord Fitzharris; and it was in Pitt's contemplation to send him
once more to Paris, when his ministry was suddenly brought to a conclusion, and Mr Addington
was appointed premier; by whom the peace, or rather the unlucky truce of Amiens, was made.
His political life was now at an end. He had been for some time suffering under deafness, which
increased so much, that he regarded it as incapacitating him from public employment; yet he
still loved society, and, dividing his time between London and his seat near Henley, he passed
a pleasant and cheerful time, mingling with the chief characters of the rising political generation.
For the last ten years of his life, his thoughts seem to have been much directed to religious
subjects; and he kept what he entitled a "self-controlling journal," in which he registered
his thoughts. We have probably reason to regret that the scrupulous delicacy of his biographer
has hitherto withheld it from the public. The few sentences transcribed from it, give a strong
conception of the piety and clear-headedness of the noble author. They were written within
a fortnight of his death. They describe him as "having completed his 74th year, and having
thus lived longer than any of his ancestors for the last two centuries; that his existence
had been without any great misfortune, and without any acute disease, and that he owed all
praise and thanksgiving to the Supreme Being; that the next step would probably be his last;
that he was now too much exhausted, both in mind and body, to be of service to his country,
but was fortunate in leaving his children well and happy; and that he now waited the Divine
will with becoming resignation."

He died without disease, and through mere exhaustion of nature, in his 75th year, in 1820,
and was buried in Salisbury cathedral.

Lord Malmesbury's reputation ranked very high in the diplomatic circles of the Continent. He
was a clear-headed, well-informed, and active minister--sagacious enough to see his way through
difficulties which would have perplexed inferior men, and bold enough to act according to his
own opinion, where feebler minds would have ruined all, by waiting for the tardy wisdom of
others. Talleyrand, a first-rate judge on such subjects, said of him, in his epigrammatic style--"I
think that Lord Malmesbury was the ablest minister whom you had in his time. It was hopeless
to get before him; all that could be done was to follow him close. If one let him have the
last word, he contrived always to have the best of the argument." He seems to have been a thorough
Englishman in the highest sense of the word, and to have had the loftiest opinion of the power
and principles of England; not from any fantastic prejudice, but from the experience of a long
life, with the best opportunities of forming an unprejudiced judgment. We have already mentioned
his declared opinion after living long abroad, and as a great diplomatic functionary, living
under the most advantageous circumstances of foreign society; that any Englishman who, after
a residence abroad, prefers the Continent to his own country, is beyond all question a man
of gross and contemptible mind, and incapable of taking a "common-sense view" of the subject.
We have his constant testimony, that "as there is nothing equal to England on the face of the
earth, so no exertion on the part of her people can be too great in defence of her freedom
and honour." In conformity with this matured conviction, and reigning principle of his heart,
he chose as the motto for his coronet--

    "Ubique patriam reminisci."{B}

Mr Harris's first visit to the Continent was in 1767, when he set out on a tour to Holland,
Prussia, and Poland, remaining for some time at Berlin, where he had the advantage of seeing
the cleverest, though the most eccentric, of all sovereigns, Frederick the Great. A number
of traits of character are given, of various degrees of force, but all expressive. The king's
chief amusement was playing on the flute, on which he performed very well for an amateur, though,
compared with the professional performers, he necessarily made rather an unkingly figure. Frederick,
who was afraid of nothing else, was so much afraid of failure in his flute playing, that whenever
he had a new piece of music, he shut himself up in his closet some hours beforehand, to practise
it; and although no one was permitted to be present at those concerts except a very few select
friends, he was always observed to be remarkably nervous at the commencement. He had a fine
collection of flutes, all made by the same man, and for which he paid a hundred ducats a-piece.
He had an attendant whose sole office was to keep those flutes in order. During the war, when
his finances were reduced to so low an ebb that he paid bad coin to every one, he took care
that his flute-maker should be paid in good coin, lest, for bad money, he should give him bad
flutes. Royal architecture is not always fortunate. It is observed that Louis XIV. built his
famous Versailles in a swampy hollow, when he had the noble terrace of St Germain before him.
Frederick built his Sans-Souci in a marshy meadow, while he had a fine hill within sight. Unhappily
we have but little to boast of in the location of our modern palaces. The site of Buckingham
Palace seems to have been chosen with no other object than to discover which was the superior
annoyance, the smoke of steam-engines or the vapours of a swamp; and this was chosen with one
of the finest possible situations within half a mile of it, in the centre of Hyde Park. Her
Majesty's palace at Brighton has been located with exactly the same curious perversion of taste;
the hills to the north of that very handsome town offering one of the noblest situations that
can be conceived--a fine land view, and an unobstructed sweep of the ocean: but the evil genius
of building prevailed, and the palace is fixed in a gloomy bottom, from which it can be overlooked
by every body, and from which nothing can be seen. Frederick, though sometimes superb in his
expenses, was habitually penurious. He seems to have thought that war was the only thing on
which it was worth his while to spend money. The salaries of his gentlemen and attendants were
all on the narrowest scale. Lord Malmesbury observes that even the Prince of Dessau's marriage,
at which he was present, exhibited this penury. All the apartments, except those immediately
used for supper or cards, were lighted with a single candle. The supper had no dessert; the
wines were bad; their quantity stinted. On his asking, after dancing, for some wine and water,
he was answered--"the wine is all gone, but you may have some tea;" and this was a peculiarly
distinguished party. He saw the king himself directing the servants in lighting up the ball-room,
and telling them where to put the candles. Whilst this operation was performing, the queen,
the royal family, and the company, were waiting literally in the dark; as the king did not
begin this ceremony till supper was finished, and no one dared to give orders to have it done.
Frederick, when a young man, was intended for the husband of a British princess. This was a
match of his mother's construction. But the old king, who hated George II., threatened to cut
off his son's head for his presumption. The English king called the Prussian "my brother the
sergeant;" the Prussian retaliated by calling the English king "my brother the dancing-master."
This hostility amounted to a mixture of the profane and the ludicrous. When the old king was
seized with his mortal illness, he asked whether "it was necessary to forgive all his enemies."
On receiving the proper answer, he said to the Queen--"Dorothy, write to your brother that
I forgive him all the evil that he has done me; but wait till I'm dead first." A good repartee
of Sir Andrew Mitchell on the battle of Quebec, is mentioned. "Is it true," said the king to
him, "that, after all, you have taken Quebec?" "Yes, sire," said Sir Andrew Mitchell the envoy,
"by the help of Providence." "What!" said the king, "is Providence among your allies?" "Yes,"
said the envoy, "and the only one among then who demands no subsidy."

Sir Charles Williams wrote to one of the queen's marshals a letter introducing Lord Essex,
ludicrously finishing with--"You may be sure that it is not he who had his head cut off in
the time of Elizabeth." The marshal, not perfectly understanding this, but depending on his
information, introduced him in this style to her majesty--"Madam, my Lord Essex; and I assure
your majesty it is not he who was decapitated by Queen Elizabeth."

Frederick, sending a minister to Denmark who complained of the smallness of his salary, and
said that he could keep neither an equipage nor a table; the king's remark to him was--"You
are a prodigal; you ought to know that it is more healthy to go on foot than it is to go in
a carriage; and that, so far as eating is concerned, another man's table is always the best."

At this period Poland was in a state of great confusion. The Empress of Russia had marched
an army into it for the purpose, as she declared, of allowing the popular representatives to
act freely, while the king regarded himself as little better than her prisoner. Repnin, the
Russian ambassador, actually commanded every thing; and the principal nobility of Poland were
compelled to be his agents. Of course, this state of things never could have occurred in any
country where the tone of manners was high; and Poland, though the people were brave, and the
nobility in general patriotic, unquestionably fell by its own vices. The portrait drawn of
Prince Radzivil is the reverse of flattering, but it is characteristic:--

"Prince Radzivil, the marshal of the confederation, was one of the most powerful princes of
Poland. His revenues were nearly equal to half a million sterling a-year, though they were
at this period much diminished by Russian ravages. He had at one time an army of eight thousand
man, with which he opposed the Imperial progress. He afterwards became the tool of the Russian
policy, and was rewarded with the first palatinate of the kingdom. He gave a masquerade on
the empress's birthday to near three thousand masks; and it was calculated that, besides the
other wines, they drank a thousand bottles of champagne." The prodigality of a Polish feast
exceeds all comprehension. This prince kept open house on such a scale, that his five-and-twenty
cooks were scarcely able to supply his table. The great article of luxury in Poland was Hungary
wine, which they had in great perfection, but which was very costly. Champagne was drunk as
cider. The multitude of servants in a Polish establishment must have been ruinous. Prince Czartoriski's
personal attendants and servants amounted to three hundred and seventy-five. Those in his country-house
were still more numerous. His troops amounted to four thousand men. Prince Repnin, though of
the Greek church, which abounds in forms and ceremonies, and in fasts exceeds all others, had
so little regard for the forms of his religion, that he ordered a play to be acted on Ash Wednesday
at Warsaw. Towards Christmas 1767, Lord Malmesbury, then Mr Harris, was at the house of a Polish
nobleman in the hunting season. He observed to the king that he had never seen him in better
spirits. "Ah!" was the royal answer, "it is very pleasant to delude one's self sometimes."

In 1768 Mr Harris began his diplomatic life as secretary of legation under Sir James Gray,
then British minister at the court of Madrid.

He set out from Paris on the last day of the year, and after six-and-twenty days' journey,
in which he loitered but two days on the road, accomplished the eleven hundred miles without
accident.

Though accustomed to Popish countries, the Spanish ceremonials of the Holy Week seem to have
surprised him. In the streets was kept a second carnival, with a peculiar costume. The court
and the higher orders wore black velvet, with flame-coloured waistcoats and sleeves trimmed
with gold; the citizens left their shops, and spent the day in the streets. The king on Holy
Thursday visited seven churches, washed the feet of twelve paupers, and afterwards served them
at dinner. From Friday till Saturday all was silence, and no coaches were permitted in the
streets. On Saturday at noon the bells rang, the people shouted, the coaches moved again, and
all was clamour. From a personal knowledge of the people, Mr Harris pronounced that their defects
arose from their religion and from their priests; both of which, by keeping the lower orders
in a state of mendicity and the higher in a state of ignorance, prevent the progress of the
nation. Even at this period, their dislike of the French was contemptuous and strongly marked.

The life of a diplomatic man is not unlike the life of a naval officer. He has frequent opportunities
of signalizing himself in a small way. The cabinet is the admiral, commanding a large force,
and acting on a large scale. The diplomatist is the captain of the frigate, thrown out at a
distance to make his observations, and enabled to exhibit his intrepidity and talent, through,
from the smallness of his means, the results may be equally small. In 1769, Sir James Gray
returning to England, left Mr Harris behind him as chargé d'affaires. In the next year Spain,
always jealous of any foreign approach to her South American possessions, fitted out a fleet
for the purpose of expelling the British colony from the Falkland Isles. Harris acted spiritedly
on this occasion. He instantly made so strong a representation to the Spanish minister, the
Marquis Grimaldi, that he threw him into evident alarm. The letter to the British ministry
which Harris wrote on the subject, satisfied them of the advantage of making a vigorous remonstrance.
The result to the country was, that the colony, which had been seized, was restored, and that
the officer who seized it was disgraced by the Spanish government. To Harris the whole transaction
was regarded as honourable, and entitling him to the favour of his government. The result was,
his being appointed, in 1771, as minister at the court of the most subtle and busy monarch
of Europe, Frederick the Second.

We now come to the partition of Poland, the most momentous transaction of modern times; excepting
the French Revolution, if even that revolution was not its consequence. Mr Harris makes his
first communication on this important subject in March 1772. If we read his whole letter, the
brevity of his announcement is a model even to diplomacy. He thus states the event to Lord
Suffolk, then secretary of state.

"Just as I am going to make up my packet, I am informed that a treaty of partition, disposing
of several parts of Poland, was signed at Petersburg on the 15th of last month, and that as
soon as the certificates can be exchanged between the courts of Vienna, Berlin, and Russia,
a congress will be held at Warsaw." A few statements respecting the Prussian officers dispatched
to the Polish frontier are given; and this seems to be the whole announcement of one of the
most atrocious acts of perfidy and blood in the memory of Europe.

The French Revolution was begun on grounds independent of foreign disturbances. But no man
can read the annals of the French war, without a conviction, that one of its providential purposes
was the punishment of the three monarchies which had perpetrated this atrocity. Within a brief
period from the first ruin of Polish independence, the French armies began those sweeping conquests
which were destined especially to ravage Prussia, Austria, and Russia. The punishment seemed
even to bear something like a proportion to the degree of guilt in each of the parties. The
original proposer of the partition was Frederick, the strenuous participator was Catharine,
and the unwilling, though consenting accomplice, was Joseph. Before that war was over, Napoleon
reduced Prussia to the lowest condition of a conquered country, plundered her of millions of
gold, held her fortresses by his garrisons, and treated her like a province. His invasion of
Russia was next in havoc: the ravage of the country, the repulse and slaughter of her brave
and patriotic armies, and the destruction of her ancient capital, were her share of the punishment.
Austria suffered, but her suffering was of a lighter order--defeat in the field, havoc of the
people, and the double capture of her capital; yet those wounds were rapidly healed, and the
close of the war saw Austria taking a higher rank in Europe. Those struggles and sufferings
extended over nearly a quarter of a century of unexampled bloodshed. It is remarkable that
a project so fully entitled to excite the vigilance of all courts, seems to have been almost
wholly overlooked by the English ministry; Lord Suffolk, in his confidential answer to the
ambassador, simply styling it a curious transaction; and even in the more advanced stage of
the affair, when the attention of the cabinet was called to it by the memorials of the Polish
king and people, all that could be obtained was a verbal answer, evidently declining any interference
on the subject, and contenting itself with the avoidance of approbation. The result of this
singular negligence distinctly points out the course which should be taken by England in her
continental policy. Her natural office is that of mediator and protector. Entertaining no views
of conquest for herself, it is her duty to repress them in all others. If, in 1772, she had
instantly issued a strong remonstrance to the three governments, it would have acted as an
appeal to the reason of Europe. A fleet sent to the Baltic in support of that remonstrance
would have acted upon the fears of the aggressors, and Poland would have been saved. The blood
of the thousands shed in the war of independence would have been spared--the great crime of
the century would have been partially avoided--and its punishment, in the shape of the revolutionary
war, might never have been inflicted. The diplomatic and formal portion of this fatal event
was thus announced by the ambassador to the British cabinet:--"Berlin, 19th September 1772.--I
received a message from Count Finckenstein yesterday morning, desiring to speak to me between
twelve and one. On my waiting on him, he informed me that his Prussian majesty having come
to an agreement with the courts of Vienna and Petersburg to renew certain ancient claims they
had on parts of the kingdom of Poland, they had instructed their respective ministers at the
court of Warsaw to signify their intentions to the king and republic, by presenting him with
a declaration on this subject.

"That his Prussian majesty, desirous of seizing every opportunity of showing his friendship
and attention to the king, had ordered him, Count Finckenstein, to take the earliest moment
of acquainting me with this event, and at the same time to give me a copy of the declaration,
which I here enclose--that his chargé d'affaires in London had likewise received orders to
inform the king's ministers on this subject, and to communicate to them the declaration."

The reply of the English minister to this momentous announcement, exhibits, perhaps, one of
the most extraordinary instances of ministerial negligence on record. On a subject which might
have moved the very stones to mutiny, and which, in its consequences, involved the interests
of all Europe, the only answer of the King of England was contained in the following note,
written in French:--"The king is willing to suppose that the three courts have convinced themselves
of the justice of their respective pretensions, although his majesty is not informed of the
motives of their conduct." "You will observe," adds Lord Suffolk, "in the terns in which I
express myself, that though this mode of expression was preferable to an absolute silence,
the utmost caution has been used." The caution was indeed sufficiently circumspect, for it
was wholly useless; and the consequence was perfect impunity to the perpetrators.

Frederick was the great infidel of his day. He had been so long involved in hostilities with
Austria, the most superstitious court in Europe, that he adopted "free-thinking" as a part
of his policy; and his eagerness for European fame connected him with Voltaire and the French
infidels, whose wit and wickedness had made them the leaders of philosophical fashion. But
there is a principle of belief in human nature which revenges itself on the infidel. There
are no men more liable to groundless fears, than those who reject the object of legitimate
awe. The man who will not believe in a deity, has often believed in witchcraft; and those who
will not acknowledge a Providence, have often trembled before a conjurer. At this period, Frederick
had grown peculiarly anxious and irascible--a temper for which the ambassador accounts by a
sudden impulse of superstition. He says--"Amongst several other incredible follies in so great
a character, he has that of not entirely disbelieving judicial astrology; and I am told, from
one whose authority is not despicable, that the fear of a prediction being this year fulfilled,
which was pronounced by a Saxon fortune-teller whom his majesty was weak enough some time ago
to consult, dwells on his mind, and augments the sourness of a disposition naturally crabbed.
I should have paid no attention to these reports, which savour so much of the nursery, had
I not myself observed him displeased at a mourning coat at his levee, and seen his countenance
visibly alter on being informed of any man's dying a sudden death."

We then have a curious letter from Lord Grantham, the ambassador at Madrid, giving an account
of an expedition to Algiers, which derives an interest from the present state of African affairs.

"You will learn that a very unsuccessful attempt has been made at Algiers, and that the Spanish
troops have been repulsed with a loss and disablement of upwards of 5000 men. The fleet, consisting
of 450 sail, and carrying about 40,000 men, sailed from Carthagena, and reached Algiers the
1st inst., (July 1775.) On the night of the 7th, the infantry, and two detachments of about
8000 men each, landed. The first detachment advanced too eagerly, could not be supported to
any purpose, and, after thirteen hours' engagement, all that could regained the ships. But
the loss of killed and wounded, first estimated at 3000, certainly exceeded five or six. The
transports with the army are returned to Carthagena and Alicante. I leave you to judge how
deep an impression this severe failure makes here. The Marquis de la Romana is killed--all
the generals, except Buck, are wounded. Among the wounded are twenty-eight officers of the
Spanish guards, and twelve out of seventeen engineers."

The court of Frederick would form a singular contrast to what is called the British Household,
composed of the great officers of state. "You are not ignorant," says Harris, writing to William
Eden, "that the great officers of the court are merely titular, and never allowed to have any
authority annexed to their office. This is given to some menial servants, who are constantly
about the king's person, and his treasurer was a Russian named Deiss, in whom his Majesty placed
more confidence than he appears to have deserved; since for maladministration, or some equally
notorious fault, his majesty a few days ago, dismissed him from his high post, and ordered
him to be employed as a drummer in a marching regiment. Deiss affected to submit patiently
to his sentence, and, on being arrested, begged leave of the officer only to go into his room,
adjoining the king's writing-closet, to fetch his hat. This being granted, he immediately locked
the door, took a pistol from his pocket, and shot himself through the head. The king heard
and was alarmed by the report of a pistol so near him, and being told what had happened, he
pitied Deiss, said that he was out of his senses, and ordered all that he died worth to be
distributed equally among his children. Deiss had charged the pistol with small-shot and crooked
nails, and put the muzzle of it into his mouth."

A striking anecdote is given of General Seidlitz, the officer who formed the Prussian cavalry.
When only a lieutenant, he happened to be near the king on a bridge which crossed the Oder.
The king asked him, "if both the avenues of the bridge were possessed by the enemy, what he
would do to disengage himself." Seidlitz, without making an answer, immediately leaped his
horse over the rails into the river, and notwithstanding its breadth and rapidity, swam safe
ashore. The king, who took it for granted that he must be drowned, on seeing him come towards
him, said in French, "Major, I beg of you not to run such hazards in future."

Despotic power has certainly great advantages, in its rapid administration of justice, and
sometimes in its reaching offences which would altogether baffle trial by jury. Frederick was
ridiculously fond of exhibiting his musical attainments; and among the other preparatives for
the reception of the Russian grand-duke (afterwards the Emperor Paul) at Berlin, was a piece
of music composed by the king. The husband of the first singer at the opera, the well-known
Madame Mara, was imprudent enough to observe of this performance, that "the composer knew more
about soldiers than music." The king ordered him to be instantly made over to the corps-de-garde,
with orders to punish him, enough to make him more cautious of criticism in future. The soldiers
accordingly, as there happened to be no punishment in the military regulations for impertinent
remarks on royal amateurs, took the affair into their own hands. They began by dressing him
in a uniform, covering his face with a huge pair of whiskers, and loading him with the heaviest
firelock which they could find, they then made him perform the manual exercise for two hours--accompanying
the lesson with all the usual discipline of the cane--then ordered him to dance and sing, finishing
their discipline by making the surgeon take from him a large quantity of blood, obviously to
reduce the heat of temper which had given rise to such impertinence. After this lesson he was
sent back to his wife. Severe as it may have appeared, Harris regarded it as earned by many
previous impertinences of the same kind, but of which it may fairly be presumed this was the last.

At last the grand-duke arrived, and was received with the most unusual pomp and ceremony by
the Prussian court. By some curious instance of choice, Sunday is selected on the Continent
as the day for every thing in the shape of show. The Russian prince made his public entry into
Berlin on Sunday, and was met by the trading companies in uniform, by escorts of cavalry, and
the equipages of the king and royal family. In the evening, after a sumptuous dinner, there
was a concert and ball. The rest of the week was similarly occupied. The grand-duke had come
to demand the Princess of Wirtemberg in marriage. When we recollect the fate of this unhappy
monarch, murdered on the Russian throne, and contrast it with the brilliancy of his early reception
in the world, and his actual powers when master of the diadem, a deeper lesson of the instability
of human fortune has seldom been given to man.

A laughable anecdote of Russian and Prussian discipline is told. All the domestics belonging
to the Imperial family of Russia have military rank; the grand-duke's coachman and the king's
going one evening to drink together, a dispute arose about precedence. "What is your rank?"
said the Prussian. "A lieutenant-colonel," said the other. "Ay, but I am a colonel," said the
German, and walked first into the ale-house. This came to the king's ears. The colonel was
sent for three days to prison, and received fifty blows of the cane.

The ambassador now obtained a new instance of the favour of his court. He was recalled from
Prussia in 1776, and shortly after was appointed to the most important of our embassies at
that period, the embassy to Russia.

The politics of England at this period bore an appearance of perplexity, which evidently alarmed
her cabinet, and which as evidently excited the hopes of her enemies. At this period she had
two enemies in Europe, hostile in every thing except to the extent of open war--France, always
jealous and irreconcilable; and Prussia, which, from her dread of England's interference in
her Polish usurpations, pretended to believe that England was conspiring with Austria against
the safety of her dominions. The feebleness with which the American war was carried on, had
deceived Europe into the belief that the power of England was really on the point of decay.
Foreigners are never capable of appreciating the reality of English power. In the first place,
because they prefer the romantic to the real; and in the next, because, living under despotisms,
they have never seen, nor can comprehend, the effect of liberty upon national resources. Thus,
when they see a nation unwilling to go to war--or, what is the next thing to reluctance, waging
it tardily--they imagine that this tardiness has its origin in national weakness; and it is
not until the palpable necessity of self-defence calls out the whole energy of the people,
that the foreigner ever sees the genuine strength of England. The capture of two small armies
in America, neither of them more numerous than the advanced guard of a continental army, had
given the impression that the military strength of England was gone for ever. Thus the European
courts thought themselves entitled to insult her; and thus so diminutive a power as Prussia,
however guided by an able and politic prince, was suffered to despise her opinion. But the
English ministry themselves of that day palpably shared the general delusion; and, to judge
from their diplomatic correspondence, they seemed actually to rely for the safety of England
on the aid of the foreign courts. They had yet to learn the lesson, taught them by the Revolutionary
war, that England is degraded by dependence of any kind; that she is a match for the world
in arms; that the cause of Europe is dependent on her; and that the more boldly, directly,
and resolutely she defies France, and its allies and slaves, the more secure she is of victory.
In the pursuit of this false policy of conciliation and supplication, Harris was sent to Petersburg,
to counteract Prussia with the empress, and to form an offensive and defensive alliance with
Catharine. Count Panin was at that time prime minister--a man of the old ministerial school,
who regarded diplomacy as the legitimate science of chicane, was a master of all the littleness
of his art, and was wholly under the influence of the King of Prussia. The count was all consent,
and yet contrived to keep the ambassador at arm's-length; while the empress, equally crafty,
and equally determined not to commit herself, managed him with still greater subtlety.

In speaking of the Empress Catharine, it is impossible to avoid alluding to the scandals of
her court. The death of her husband, suspicious as it was, had left her sole mistress of an
empire, and of the power of public opinion, in a country where a sneer might send the offender
to Siberia. The wretchedly relaxed religion of the Greek church, where a trivial penance atones
for every thing, and ceremonial takes the place of morals, as it inevitably does wherever a
religion is encumbered with unnecessary forms, could be no restraint on the conduct of a daring
and imperious woman. By some of that easy casuistry which reconciles the powerful to vice,
she had fully convinced herself that she ought, for the sake of her throne, never to submit
to matrimonial ties again; and she adopted the notorious and guilty alternative of living with
a succession of partners. The ambassador's letters frequently allude to this disgraceful topic,
and always with the contempt and reprobation which were so amply its due. "The worst enemies"--such
is his expression--"which the empress has, are flattery and her own passions. She never turns
a deaf ear to the first, let it be ever so gross; and her inclination to gratify the latter
appears to grow upon her with age."

The policy of Russia had two grand objects, both of them wholly inconsistent with the policy
of England; and therefore rendering the ambassador's zeal wholly useless. The King of Prussia
favoured both, and therefore commanded the highest influence with the empress. It was thus
the impossible task of the unfortunate diplomatist, to convince a haughty and self-sufficient
woman against her will. Of course, failure was the necessary consequence. But in the mean time,
dining and dancing, feasting and frivolity, went on with Asiatic splendour. The birth of the
grand-duke's son, "Constantine," (expressly so named with a view to Turkish objects,) gave
occasion to fêtes which it tasked the whole power of Russian panegyric to describe. The empress
gave one in the period of the Carnival, ultra-imperially magnificent. The dessert and supper
were set out with jewels to the amount of upwards of two millions sterling! and at the tables
of macao, the fashionable game, besides the stake in money, a diamond of fifty rubles' value
was given by her majesty to each of those who got nine, the highest point of the game. One
hundred and fifty diamonds were distributed in this manner.

But a new event occurred to stir the lazy politics of Europe--that act of infinite treachery
on the part of the French government--the breach of treaty with England, and the alliance with
America. The menaces of war which are held out at this moment by the Jacobin party, and its
insolent eagerness to turn every trivial incident into a mortal quarrel, give a new and additional
interest to this former act of desperate perfidy. But let it be remembered with what tremendous
vengeance that perfidy was punished--that the American alliance was the precursor of the French
republic; and that the long train of hideous calamities which broke down the French throne,
banished the nobility, and decimated the population, dates its origin from the day when that
fatal treaty was signed. A letter from Sir Gilbert Elliott (afterwards Lord Minto) to the ambassador,
(March 20, 1778,) thus briefly communicates the intelligence:--"We had just passed the bills
for repealing some of the obnoxious American acts, and for enabling the king to appoint his
commissioners to treat with America with very large powers, when the report of the French treaty
with the colonies became very prevalent, and obtained credit here. Government, however, had
certainly obtained no authentic account of it which is singular enough; and Lord North positively
disclaimed all knowledge of it. A loan of six millions was made on very hard terms for the
public, much owing to the report of the French treaty; the three per cent consols being at
66½--monstrously low. The first payment was fixed for Tuesday last. On the Friday before, the
Marquis de Noailles delivered a paper to Lord Weymouth, communicating the 'treaty of commerce
and alliance' with the colonies, and acknowledging their independency. The manner and style
of the communication were inexpressibly insolent, and were no doubt meant as a studied affront
and challenge. On Saturday, all the French in London were sent to the opera, plays, clubs,
coffee-houses, and ale-houses, to publish the intelligence, which they did with their natural
impertinence. On Tuesday, the two Houses received a message from the king, informing them of
the communication from the French ambassador--that he had recalled his ambassador from Versailles;
and assuring them that he would exert every means in his power to protect the honour and interest
of his kingdom. In answer to which, the two Houses voted an address, promising to support him
with our lives and fortunes. Opposition, like good patriots, in answer to this message, proposed
to address the king to remove his ministers; and C. Fox assured us, 'he thought an invasion
a much better thing than the continuance of the present administration.' When this proposal
was negatived, they therefore refused their assent to our address. There is no declaration
of war yet; but as it is quite certain, and as France will undoubtedly act immediately, I do
not see what we gain by delaying it. I hope at least we shall begin taking their ships immediately.
The militia is to be called out; credit is dreadfully low--stock was a few days ago at 60.
The French are poorer than we--that's something."

Exaggeration is a propensity which seems common to ambassadors. We certainly have never seen
an ambassadorial correspondence, in which the most groundless views did not make a large part
of its communications. The British diplomatist in Russia was unquestionably a shrewd man, and
yet his letters abound in predictions of Russian ruin. His descriptions run in this style:--"Great
expenses, and nothing to show for them. The army in a state of decay; the navy incomplete and
ill-equipped; the political system languid, and such as, if pursued, must ultimately reduce
this immense mass of power to that state of Asiatic insignificancy from which it so lately
emerged."

And this high-coloured and rash statement, it is to be remembered, was not a page in a popular
novel or in a summer's "Tour," but was given as the deliberate opinion of a statesman conversant
in continental politics, and addressed to the government of this country. He seems to have
altogether overlooked the boundless territory and growing population of Russia, her forty millions
of men--a number already exceeding that of any other kingdom in Europe--the inaccessible nature
of her dominions, the implicit and Asiatic devotion of her subjects, the unrivaled vigour of
her despotism, and the fact that she had but that moment secured an immense tract of Polish
territory, and was stripping the Turks on the other side--that to the north she was touching
on the Vistula, and to the south had nearly reached the Danube. The subsequent career of Russia
is a still stronger refutation. Every war, instead of shaking her power, has only given it
additional strength and stability. Like England, she has gone on with almost involuntary but
rapid progress; and the period may arrive when there will be but two nations left in Europe--England
the ruler of the seas, and Russia holding the kingdoms of the Continent in vassalage. It is
true, that the ambassador adverts now and then to the inaccessible nature of the Russian territory,
and the success of the national arms; but the former would be but a negative source of power,
and the latter he uniformly attributed to good-luck. He ought to lave attributed them to the
causes which would have produced the same effect in any age of the world--to the mastery of
an immense population; to the daring of a head of empire possessed of remarkable ability, and
filled with projects of unbounded supremacy; and to the growth of a new generation of soldiers
and statesmen, encouraged to the highest exertion of their talents by the most munificent rewards--the
policy of the empress making the evidence of courage and genius in the soldier the only requisite
for promotion; and exhibiting the strongest personal interest of the sovereign in the elevation
of those able servants of the crown. The consequence was, success in all the enterprises of
Catharine, the rapid advance of the nation in European influence, the establishment of an insecure
throne on the strongest footing of public security, the popularity of a despotism, the comparative
civilization of a people half Asiatic, and who but half a century before had been barbarians,
and the personal attachment of the nation to Catharine in a degree scarcely less than adoration.
The chief cause of this triumphant state of things, beyond all question, was the high spirit,
the generosity, and the affability of the empress. The unhappy transactions of her private
life are matters of painful record; and the letters of the ambassador are full of the reprobation
which the memoirs of the time authenticate. But we have no gratification in dwelling on such
topics. We infinitely prefer paying the tribute due to great talents splendidly exercised,
to the public achievements of a powerful intellect, and to the superiority which this munificent
promoter of the genius of all classes of her people exhibited to all the haughty, exclusive,
and selfish sovereigns of her time.

The ambassador now found it necessary to look for support against the Prussian propensities
of the minister; and he had recourse to Potemkin and the Orloffs, as the antagonists of Panin.
Potemkin was one of the most extraordinary men whom the especial circumstances of the court
and country raised into public distinction. He had been but a cornet of cavalry on the memorable
night when Catharine, uncertain whether she was mounting a throne or a scaffold, put herself
at the head of the guards, and deposed her husband. As she rode along, observing that she had
not a military plume in her hat, she turned to ask for one; the cornet instantly plucked out
his own, and presented it to her--as Raleigh threw his cloak on the ground for Elizabeth to
walk over. These gallant acts are never lost upon a woman of the superior order of mind. The
favour of the throne followed alike in both instances; and Potemkin soon became the guide of
the Russian councils. It was the custom of the French memoir writers--a race who always aimed
at pungency of narrative in preference to truth, and who, for their generation, performed the
part of general libellers--to represent Potemkin as a savage, devoted to drinking, and whose
influence was solely the result of his grossness. But the conferences which he held with this
British ambassador, and the extracts of his opinions given in these letters, show him to have
been a man of remarkable clearness of comprehension, dexterity of resource, and readiness of
knowledge. It is obvious that nothing but the exertion of distinguished skill in the ways of
courts, could have accomplished the objects which no other man of his time attained with such
complete success. In a court of contention and favouritism, he retained supreme influence to
the last; released from the labours of office, he possessed more than the power of a minister--and
nominally a subject, he was scarcely less than emperor. Boundless wealth, the highest rank,
and every honour which the empire could lavish on its first noble, were the prizes of Potemkin.

People at home are in the habit of looking upon the diplomatic body abroad as a collection
of very subtle and sagacious personages--a collection of sages. A nearer view sometimes strips
the idea down to humble dimensions. Sir James Harris (he had now obtained the Order of the
Bath, which he seems to have deserved by his diligence) thus sketches the new ambassadorial
body--a general change having just taken place. "The Imperial, Danish, French, Prussian, and
Spanish ministers are all altered, and one from Naples is added to our corps." The Neapolitan
he describes as "utterly unfit for business;" Count Cobenzel, the Austrian ambassador, "as
a man of excellent parts and great activity;" Goertz, the Prussian, "a very able and artful
man." So far as this point, the honour of the corps is sustained; but then come the ciphers.
Monsieur Verac, the cunning French envoy, is "more amiable in company than formidable in cabinet."
The Swede and the Saxon ministers, "most perfectly insignificant and overpowered with debts."
The Dutch resident, Swartz, "a man neither of birth nor character, totally improper for the
post he fills. The Swiss resident, having no other business than the lawsuits of his countrymen,"
&c.

Of the culpable habits of the empress we shall say no more. The respect which this country
feels for the character of Emperor Nicholas, and the total contrast which that character presents
to the especial failings of his ancestor, justly prevent our wandering into those observations.
But we have a curious instance of the skill and adroitness of this memorable woman, in an interview
in which she was wholly left to herself, and yet succeeded perfectly in what is presumed to
be the chef-d'oeuvre of diplomacy--the art of disguising her intentions. The British ambassador,
after a long period of comparative failure, had succeeded in obtaining an audience through
Potemkin--who always pretended to be powerless, yet who could do every thing which he desired.
The appointment to meet the ambassador was made, and Potemkin prefaced his service by the following
singular sketch of his sovereign. "Do not expect that it is in the power of any living being
to prevent her from concluding her favourite plan of armed neutrality. Content yourself with
destroying the effects--the resolution is immovable. As it was conceived by mistake and perfected
by vanity, it is maintained by pride and obstinacy. You well know the hold of those passions
on a female mind; and if you attempt to slacken, you will only tighten the knot."

One of the imperial valets then came to lead the ambassador to the interview; which he gives
in French, and which he commenced in a strain which we hope will never be imitated again by
any cabinet of England.

"I have come to represent to your imperial majesty the critical situation in which our affairs
are at present. You know our reliance on you. We venture to flatter ourselves that you will
avert the storm, and reassure us as to our fears of having lost your friendship." If the expressions
were not in print, we should scarcely have thought it possible that such crouching language
could have been used. The ambassador, of course, is but the mouthpiece of his government. The
blame must fall, not on the intelligent servant, but on the feeble masters. Who can wonder
if the daring and haughty spirit of Catharine scoffed at the remonstrances, and despised the
interests of a country, whose cabinet adopted language so unfitting the dignity and real power
of the mighty British empire? The expressions of this dialogue would have been humiliating
to the smallest of the "square-league" sovereignties of the Continent. The answer of the empress
was precisely what she might have addressed to the envoy of Poland or the Crimea. "Sir, you
are aware of my sentiments relative to your nation; they are equally sincere and invariable.
But I have found so little return on your part, that I feel I ought not to consider you any
longer among my friends."

To this haughty tone, what is the reply of the ambassador?

"It is in the hope that those sentiments were not entirely effaced, that I wished to address
myself directly to your Majesty. But it was not without fear that I approached you. Appearances
only too strongly prove the impressions which you have received from our enemies." And so goes
on the dialogue, like a scene in a play, see-sawing through six intolerable pages. How differently
would Pitt's cabinet have acted, and how differently did it act! When the Russian councils
menaced the seizure of even a paltry Turkish fortress on the Black Sea, the great minister
ordered a fleet to be ready as his negotiators; and though the factiousness of Opposition at
the time prevented this manly demonstration of policy and justice, the evidence was given,
in the reign of Paul, when a British fleet crushed the armed neutrality--that trick of French
mountebanks imposing on the ambition of the north--and restored Russia to so full a sense of
the power and the honour of England, that she sent her fleet into her safe keeping at the approach
of Napoleon's invasion, and has been her fast and honourable ally ever since. "Cromwell's ambassador"
is the true one for England at all times. A stout British squadron sent to the Baltic in 1780
would have wonderfully solved the difficulties of the British negotiation, have completely
cleared the empress's conscience, have enlightened Count Panin's brains, and have convinced
even the wily Potemkin himself that the art of political delusion was too dangerous a game
to be tried against England.

But the true value of history is to instruct the future. We are now in nearly the same relative
position to France in which we were sixty-four years ago relative to Russia. We are exhibiting
the same dilatoriness which we exhibited then, and we shall be fortunate if we escape the same
consequences. A strong fleet sent to the Mediterranean would do more to calm the elements of
strife effectually, than all the remonstrances of all our negotiators. Or, if the French were
foolish enough to provoke a battle, a repetition of the 1st of June or the 21st of October
would be the tranquillizer of a restless people, who can never suffer Europe to rest in peace
but when they themselves have been taught the miseries of war.

In justice to the cabinet of 1780, it must be acknowledged that the personal tone of the ambassador
was criticised; and we thus find him making his diplomatic apology to Lord Stormont, then secretary
for foreign affairs:--

"I have often been conscious of the remark your lordship makes, and have myself felt that I
was not acting up to the character of an English minister, in bestowing such fulsome incense
on the empress. But here, too, I was drawn from my system and principles by the conduct of
my adversaries. They ever addressed her as a being of a superior nature; and as she goes near
to think herself infallible, she expects to be approached with all the reverence due to a divinity."
No excuse could be more unsatisfactory. If other men chose to bow down, there would have only
been the more manliness, and the more effect too, in refusing to follow such an example.

In 1783, the ambassador obtained permission to return to England. His correspondence at the
period immediately previous, is remarkably interesting; and it is striking to see that the
successive secretaries for the foreign department, under all changes of administration, formed
the same view of the substantial policy of England. When, in 1783, Fox assumed the foreign
seals, he thus writes to Harris, in the course of a long letter on the foreign policy of the
cabinet:--"You will readily believe me, that my system of foreign politics was too deeply rooted
to make it likely that I should have changed it. Alliances with the northern powers ever have
been, and ever will be, the system of every enlightened Englishman."

In the year following, Sir James Harris was appointed by Pitt to the Dutch embassy, to which
he had been previously nominated by Fox, his friend and political leader. The appointment by
the new cabinet was thus the strongest testimony to his talents. His letters from the Hague
contain a very intelligent statement of the parties and principles which agitated Holland in
1787. The object was the establishment of a democracy and the extinction of the Stadtholderate,
or at least its suppression as a hereditary dignity. The court of France was busy in this democratic
intrigue; and its partial success unquestionably added new combustibles to the pile on which
that unfortunate monarchy, in the hour of infatuation, was preparing to throw itself. The ambassador's
language on this occasion is characteristic and memorable. In one of his despatches to the
Marquis of Carmarthen, then secretary of state, he thus says:--

"The infamy and profligacy of the French make me long to change my profession, and to fight
them with a sharper instrument than a pen. It must be with those (not our pens, but our swords)
that we must carry the mediation through, if we mean it should be attended with any success.
There are strong reports of a popular insurrection in France:"--"Si Dieu voulait les punir
par où ils ont peché, comme j'admirerais la justice divine!" The remark was natural; it was
almost prophetic; and it was on the eve of realization. In 1789, but two years after, the Revolution
began.

These volumes contain a great deal of extremely curious material, especially important to every
man who may in future be employed in the foreign service of our diplomacy. They supply a model
of the manner in which those offices may be most effectively sustained. We have already expressed
dissatisfaction at the submissive style used in addressing the Russian empress. But in other
instances, the language of the ambassador seems to have been prompt and plain. It is remarkable
that England has, at the present time, arrived at a condition of European affairs bearing no
slight resemblance to that of the period between 1783 and 1789. It is true that there will
be no second French Revolution; one catastrophe of that terrible extent is enough for the world.
But there are strong symptoms of those hostilities which the Bourbons were endeavouring to
kindle against this country, for at least a dozen years before the Revolution which crushed
their monarchy.

Without any provocation on the part of England, any actual claim, or any desire whatever of
war, this country finds itself suddenly made an object of perpetual insult on the part of all
the active mind of France. The cry from every organ of public opinion seems to be, war with
England, whether with or without cause. A violent clamour is raised for our national ruin;
the resources of France are blazoned in all quarters; and the only contemplation popular in
France is, how most suddenly and effectually French armies may be poured on our shores, our
fields ravaged, our maritime cities burned, and our people massacred! It must be hoped that
this detestable spirit does not reach higher than the Jacobin papers, and the villains by whom
that principal part of the French press is conducted. Yet we find but little contradiction
to it in even the more serious and authentic portion of the national sentiments. In such circumstances,
it is only right to be prepared. We find also the still more expressive evidence of this spirit
of evil, in the general conduct of the agents of France in her colonies--a habit of sudden
encroachment, a growing arrogance, and a full exhibition of that bitter and sneering petulance,
which was supposed to have been scourged out of the French by their desperate defeats towards
the close of the war. All this insolence may, by possibility, pass away; but it also may go
on to further inflammation, and it may be necessary to scourge it again; and this discipline,
if once begun, must be carried through more effectually than when the Allies last visited Paris.
The respect felt for the French king and his prime minister, as the friends of peace, naturally
restrains the language with which aggression deserves to be reprobated. But the French government,
if it desires to retain that respect, must exhibit its sincerity in making some substantial
effort to preserve peace. No man of sense in Europe can believe in the necessity of the seizure
of Algiers, nor in the necessity of the war with Morocco. But every man can see the influence
of both on the freedom of the Mediterranean. The seizure of the British consul at Otaheite
shows a spirit which must be summarily extinguished, or the preservation of peace will be impossible.
In the mean time, we hear from France nothing but a cry for steam-ships, and threats of invasion.
We ask, what has England done? Nothing to offend or injure: there is not even an allegation
of any thing of the kind. But if war must come, woe be to those by whom it is begun! The history
of all the wars of England with France, is one of French defeat. We have beaten the French
by land, we have beaten them by sea; and, with the blessing of Heaven on the righteous cause
and our own stout hands, we shall always beat them. We have beaten them on the soil of the
stranger--we have beaten them on their own. From the fourteenth century, when English soldiers
were masters of the half of France, down to Waterloo, we have always beaten France; and if
we beat her under Napoleon, there can be no fear of our not beating her under a race so palpably
his inferiors. All England deprecates war as useless, unnatural, and criminal. But the crime
is solely on the head of the aggressor. Woe to those who begin the next war! It may be final.

The late visit of the Emperor of Russia to this country, which so much perplexed the political
circles of both France and England, now probably admits of elucidation. The emperor's visit
has been followed by that of the ablest and most powerful diplomatist in his dominions, the
Count Nesselrode, his foreign minister. For this visit, too, a speedy elucidation may be found.
The visits of the King of Saxony, and the Princes of Prussia and Holland, also have their importance
in this point of view; and the malignant insults of the French journals may have had a very
influential share in contributing to the increased closeness of our connexion with the sovereignties
of Germany and Russia. The maxim of Fox, that the northern alliances are the true policy of
England, is as sound as ever. Still, we deprecate war--all rational men deprecate war; and
we speak in a feeling which we fully believe to be universal in England, that nothing would
be a higher source of rejoicing in Great Britain, than a safe peace with France, and harmony
with all the nations of the world.

FOOTNOTES:

{A} Diaries and Correspondence of James Harris, First Earl of Malmesbury. Edited by his GRANDSON,
the Third Earl. 2 vols.

{B} "Every where to remember his country."

POEMS AND BALLADS OF GOETHE.

No. II.

Goethe's love for the Fine Arts amounted almost to a passion. In his earlier years, he performed
the painter's customary pilgrimage through Italy, and not merely surveyed, but studied with
intense anxiety, the works of the great modern masters. A poet, if he understands the theory
of his own calling, may learn much from pictures; for the analogy between the sister arts is
very strong. The secret of preserving richness without glare, fulness without pruriency, and
strength without exaggeration, must be attained alike by poet and painter, before either of
them can take their rank among the chosen children of immortality. It is a common but most
erroneous idea, that an artist is more indebted for success to inspiration, than to severe
study. Unquestionably he must possess some portion of the former--that is, he must have within
him the power to imagine and to create; for if he has not that, the fundamental faculty is
wanting. But how different are the crude shapeless fancies, how meagre and uncertain the outlines
of the mental sketch, from the warm, vivid, and glowing perfection of the matured and finished
work! It is in the strange and indescribable process of moulding the rude idea, of giving due
proportion to each individual part, and combining the whole into symmetry, that the test of
excellence lies. There inspiration will help but little; and labour, the common doom of man
in the loftiest as well as the lowest walks of life, is requisite to consummate the triumph.

No man better understood, or more thoroughly acted upon the knowledge of this analogy, than
Goethe. He wrought rigidly by the rule of the artist. Not one poem, however trifling might
be the subject, did he suffer to escape from his hands, until it had received the final touches,
and undergone the most thorough revision. So far did he carry this principle, that many of
his lesser works seem absolutely mere transcripts or descriptions of pictures, where the sentiment
is rather inferred than expressed; and in some, for example that which we are about to quote,
he even brings before the reader what may be called the process of mental painting.

CUPID AS A LANDSCAPE PAINTER

      Once I sate upon a mountain,
    Gazing on the mist before me;
    Like a great grey sheet of canvass,
    Shrouding all things in its cover,
    Did it float 'twixt earth and heaven.

      Then a child appear'd beside me;
    Saying, "Friend, it is not seemly,
    Thus to gaze in idle wonder,
    With that noble breadth before thee.
    Hast thou lost thine inspiration?
    Hath the spirit of the painter
    Died within thee utterly?"

      But I turn'd and look'd upon him,
    Speaking not, but thinking inly,
    "Will he read a lesson now!"

      "Folded hands," pursued the infant,
    "Never yet have won a triumph.
    Look! I'll paint for thee a picture
    Such as none have seen before."

      And he pointed with his finger,
    Which like any rose was ruddy,
    And upon the breadth of vapour
    With that finger 'gan to draw.

      First a glorious sun he painted,
    Dazzling when I look'd upon it;
    And he made the inner border
    Of the clouds around it golden,
    With the light rays through the masses
    Pouring down in streams of splendour.
    Then the tender taper summits
    Of the trees, all leaf and glitter,
    Started from the sullen void;
    And the slopes behind them rising,
    Graceful-lined in undulation,
    Glided backwards one by one.
    Underneath, be sure, was water;
    And the stream was drawn so truly
    That it seem'd to break and shimmer,
    That it seem'd as if cascading
    From the lofty rolling wheel.

      There were flowers beside the brooklet;
    There were colours on the meadow--
    Gold and azure, green and purple,
    Emerald and bright carbuncle.
    Clear and pure he work'd the ether
    As with lapis-lazuli,
    And the mountains in the distance
    Stretching blue and far away--
    All so well, that I, in rapture
    At this second revelation,
    Turn'd to gaze upon the painter
    From the picture which he drew.

      "Have I not," he said, "convinced thee
    That I know the painter's secret?
    Yet the greatest is to come."

      Then he drew with gentle finger,
    Still more delicately pointed,
    In the wood, about its margin,
    Where the sun within the water
    Glanced as from the clearest mirror,
    Such a maiden's form!
    Perfect shape in perfect raiment,
    Fair young cheeks 'neath glossy ringlets,
    And the cheeks were of the colour
    Of the finger whence they came.

      "Child," I cried, "what wond'rous master
    In his school of art hath form'd thee,
    That so deftly and so truly,
    From the sketch unto the burnish,
    Thou hast finish'd such a gem?"

      As I spoke, a breeze arising
    Stirr'd the tree-tops in the picture,
    Ruffled every pool of water,
    Waved the garments of the maiden;
    And, what more than all amazed me,
    Her small feet took motion also,
    And she came towards the station
    Where I sat beside the boy.

      So, when every thing was moving,
    Leaves and water, flowers and raiment,
    And the footsteps of the darling--
    Think you I remain'd as lifeless
    As the rock on which I rested?
    No, I trow--not I!

This is as perfect a landscape as one of Berghem's sunniest.

An artist is, to our mind, one of the happiest creatures in God's creation. Now that the race
of wandering minstrels has passed away, your painter is the only free joyous denizen of the
earth, who can give way to his natural impulses without fear of reproach, and who can indulge
his enthusiasm for the bright and beautiful to the utmost. He has his troubles, no doubt; for
he is ambitious, and too often he is poor; but it is something to pursue ambition along the
natural path with unwarped energies, and ardent and sincere devotion. As to poverty, that is
a fault that must daily mend, if he is only true to himself. In a few years, the foot-sore
wanderer of the Alps, with little more worldly goods than the wallet and sketch-book he carries,
will be the royal academician, the Rubens or the Reynolds of his day, with the most recherché
studio in London, and more orders upon his list than he has either time or inclination to execute.
Goethe has let us into the secret of the young German artist's life. Let us look upon him in
the dawnings of his fame, before he is summoned to adorn the stately halls of Munich with frescoes
from the Niebelungen Lied.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARTIST'S MORNING SONG.

    My dwelling is the Muses' home--
      What matters it how small?
    And here, within my heart, is set
      The holiest place of all.

    When, waken'd by the early sun,
      I rise from slumbers sound,
    I see the ever-living forms
      In radiance group'd around.

    I pray, and songs of thanks and praise
      Are more than half my prayer,
    With simple notes of music, tuned
      To some harmonious air.

    I bow before the altar then,
      And read, as well I may,
    From noble Homer's master-work,
      The lesson for the day.

    He takes me to the furious fight,
      Where lion warriors throng;
    Where god-descended heroes whirl
      In iron cars along.

    And steeds go down before the cars;
      And round the cumber'd wheel,
    Both friend and foe are rolling now,
      All blood from head to heel!

    Then comes the champion of them all,
      Pelides' friend is he,
    And crashes through the dense array,
      Though thousands ten they be!

    And ever smites that fiery sword
      Through helmet, shield, and mail;
    Until he falls by craft divine,
      Where might could not prevail.

    Down from the glorious pile he rolls,
      Which he himself had made,
    And foemen trample on the limbs
      From which they shrank afraid.

    Then start I up, with arms in hand,
      What arms the painter bears;
    And soon along my kindling wall
      The fight at Troy appears.

    On! on again! The wrath is here
      Of battle rolling red;
    Shield strikes on shield, and sword on helm,
      And dead men fall on dead!

    I throng into the inner press,
      Where loudest rings the din;
    For there, around their hero's corpse,
      Fight on his furious kin!

    A rescue! rescue! bear him hence
      Into the leaguer near;
    Pour balsam in his glorious wounds,
      And weep above his bier.

    And when from that hot trance I pass,
      Great Love, I feel thy charm;
    There hangs my lady's picture near--
      A picture yet so warm!

    How fair she was, reclining there;
      What languish in her look!
    How thrill'd her glance through all my frame!
      The very pencil shook.

    Her eyes, her cheeks, her lovely lips,
      Were all the world to me;
    And in my breast a younger life
      Rose wild and wantonly.

    Oh! turn again, and bide thee here,
      Nor fear such rude alarms;
    How could I think of battles more
      With thee within my arms!

    But thou shalt lend thy perfect form
      To all I fashion best;
    I'll paint thee first, Madonna-wise,
      The infant on thy breast.

    I'll paint thee as a startled nymph,
      Myself a following fawn;
    And still pursue thy flying feet
      Across the woodland lawn.

    With helm on head, like Mars, I'll lie
      By thee, the Queen of Love,
    And draw a net around us twain,
      And smile on heaven above.

    And every god that comes shall pour
      His blessings on thy head,
    And envious eyes be far away
      From that dear marriage-bed!

There is abundance of spirit here. For once, in describing the battle and fall of Patroclus,
Goethe seems to have caught a spark of Homeric inspiration, and the lines ring out as clearly
as the stroke of the hammer on the anvil. There is no rhyme in the original, which, we confess,
appears to us a fault; more especially as the rhythm is that of the ordinary ballad. We have,
therefore, ventured to supply it, with as little deviation otherwise as possible. It is for
the reader to judge whether the effect is diminished.

Our next selection shall be "The God and the Bayaderé"--a poem which is little inferior in
beauty to the Bride of Corinth, and which, from its structure, opposes to the translator quite
as serious a difficulty. The subject is taken from the Hindoo mythology, and conveys a very
touching moral of humanity and forbearance; somewhat daring, perhaps, from its novelty, and
the peculiar customs and religious faith of an eastern land, yet, withal, most delicately handled.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GOD AND THE BAYADERÉ.

AN INDIAN LEGEND.

    I.

        Mahadeh, earth's lord, descending
          To its mansions comes again,
        That, like man with mortals blending,
          He may feel their joy and pain;
        Stoops to try life's varied changes,
          And with human eyes to see,
        Ere he praises or avenges,
          What their fitful lot may be.
    He has pass'd through the city, has look'd on them all;
    He has watch'd o'er the great, nor forgotten the small,
    And at evening went forth on his journey so free.

    II.

        In the outskirts of the city,
          Where the straggling huts are piled,
        At a casement stood a pretty
          Painted thing, almost a child.
        "Greet thee, maiden!" "Thanks--art weary?
          Wait, and quickly I'll appear!"
        "What art thou?"--"A Bayaderé,
          And the home of love is here."
    She rises; the cymbals she strikes as she dances,
    And whirling, and bending with grace, she advances,
    And offers him flowers as she undulates near.

    III.

        O'er the threshold gliding lightly
          In she leads him to her room.
        "Fear not, gentle stranger; brightly
          Shall my lamp dispel the gloom.
        Art thou weary? I'll relieve thee--
          Bathe thy feet, and soothe their smart;
        All thou askest I can give thee--
          Rest, or song, or joy impart."
    She labours to soothe him, she labours to please;
    The Deity smiles; for with pleasure he sees
    Through deep degradation a right-loving heart.

    IV.

        And he asks for service menial,
          And she only strives the more,
        Nature's impulse now is genial
          Where but art prevail'd before.
        As the fruit succeeds the blossom,
          Swells and ripens day by day,
        So, where kindness fills the bosom,
          Love is never far away.
    But he, whose vast motive was deeper and higher,
    Selected, more keenly and clearly to try her,
    Love, follow'd by anguish, and death, and dismay.

    V.

        And her rosy cheeks he presses,
          And she feels love's torment sore,
        And, thrill'd through by his caresses,
          Weeps, that never wept before.
        Droops beside him, not dissembling,
          Or for passion or for gain,
        But her limbs grow faint and trembling,
          And no more their strength retain.
    Meanwhile the still hours of the night stealing by,
    Spread their shadowy woof o'er the face of the sky,
    Bringing love and its festival joys in their train.

    VI.

        Lately roused, her arms around him,
          Waking up from broken rest,
        Dead upon her breast she found him,
          Dead--that dearly-cherish'd guest!
        Shrieking loud, she flings her o'er him,
          But he answers not her cry;
        And unto the pile they bore him,
          Stark of limb and cold of eye.
    She hears the priests chanting--she hears the death-song,
    And frantic she rises, and bursts through the throng.
    "Who is she? what seeks she? why comes she so nigh?"

    VII.

        But the bier she falleth over,
          And her shrieks are loud and shrill--
        "I will have my lord, my lover!
          In the grave I seek him still.
        Shall that godlike frame be wasted
          By the fire's consuming blight?
        Mine it was--yea mine! though tasted
          Only one delicious night!"
    But the priests, they chant ever--"We carry the old,
    When their watching is over, their journeys are told;
    We carry the young, when they pass from the light!

    VIII.

        "Hear us, woman! Him we carry
          Was not, could not be, thy spouse.
        Art thou not a Bayaderé?
          So hast thou no nuptial vows.
        Only to death's silent hollow
          With the body goes the shade;
        Only wives their husbands follow:
          Thus alone is duty paid.
    Strike loud the wild turmoil of drum and of gong!
    Receive him, ye gods, in your glorious throng--
    Receive him in garments of burning array'd!"

    IX.

        Harsh their words, and unavailing,
          Swift she threaded through the quire,
        And with arms outstretch'd, unquailing
          Leap'd into the crackling fire.
        But the deed alone sufficeth--
          Robed in might and majesty,
        From the pile the god ariseth
          With the ransom'd one on high.
    Divinity joys in a sinner repenting,
    And the lost ones of earth, by immortals relenting,
    Are borne upon pinions of fire to the sky!

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us now take a poem of the Hartz mountains, containing no common allegory. Every man is
more or less a Treasure-seeker--a hater of labour--until he has received the important truth,
that labour alone can bring content and happiness. There is an affinity, strange as it may
appear, between those whose lot in life is the most exalted, and the haggard hollow-eyed wretch
who prowls incessantly around the crumbling ruins of the past, in the belief that there lies
beneath their mysterious foundations a mighty treasure, over which some jealous demon keeps
watch for evermore. But Goethe shall read the moral to us himself.

THE TREASURE-SEEKER.

    I.

    Many weary days I suffer'd,
      Sick of heart and poor of purse;
    Riches are the greatest blessing--
      Poverty the deepest curse!
    Till at last to dig a treasure
      Forth I went into the wood--
    "Fiend! my soul is thine for ever!"
      And I sign'd the scroll with blood.

    II.

    Then I drew the magic circles,
      Kindled the mysterious fire,
    Placed the herbs and bones in order,
      Spoke the incantation dire.
    And I sought the buried metal
      With a spell of mickle might--
    Sought it as my master taught me;
      Black and stormy was the night.

    III.

    And I saw a light appearing
      In the distance, like a star;
    When the midnight hour was tolling,
      Came it waxing from afar:
    Came it flashing, swift and sudden;
      As if fiery wine it were,
    Flowing from an open chalice,
      Which a beauteous boy did bear.

    IV.

    And he wore a lustrous chaplet,
      And his eyes were full of thought,
    As he stepp'd into the circle
      With the radiance that he brought.
    And he bade me taste the goblet;
      And I thought--"It cannot be,
    That this boy should be the bearer
      Of the Demon's gifts to me!"

    V.

    "Taste the draught of pure existence
      Sparkling in this golden urn,
    And no more with baneful magic
      Shalt thou hitherward return.
    Do not dig for treasures longer;
      Let thy future spellwords be
    Days of labour, nights of resting;
      So shall peace return to thee!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Pass we away now from the Hartz to Heidelberg, in the company of our glorious poet. We all
know the magnificent ruins of the Neckar, the feudal turrets which look down upon one of the
sweetest spots that ever filled the soul of a weary man with yearning for a long repose. Many
a year has gone by since the helmet of the warder was seen glancing on these lofty battlements,
since the tramp of the steed was heard in the court-yard, and the banner floated proudly from
the topmost turret; but fancy has a power to call them back, and the shattered stone is restored
in an instant by the touch of that sublimest architect:--

THE CASTLE ON THE MOUNTAIN.

    There stands an ancient castle
      On yonder mountain height,
    Where, fenced with door and portal,
      Once tarried steed and knight.

    But gone are door and portal,
      And all is hush'd and still;
    O'er ruin'd wall and rafter
      I clamber as I will.

    A cellar with many a vintage
      Once lay in yonder nook;
    Where now are the cellarer's flagons,
      And where is his jovial look?

    No more he sets the beakers
      For the guests at the wassail feast;
    Nor fills a flask from the oldest cask
      For the duties of the priest.

    No more he gives on the staircase
      The stoup to the thirsty squires,
    And a hurried thanks for the hurried gift
      Receives, nor more requires.

    For burn'd are roof and rafter,
      And they hang begrimed and black;
    And stair, and hall, and chapel,
      Are turn'd to dust and wrack.

    Yet, as with song and cittern,
      One day when the sun was bright,
    I saw my love ascending
      With me the rocky height;

    From the hush and desolation
      Sweet fancies did unfold,
    And it seem'd as we were living
      In the merry days of old.

    As if the stateliest chambers
      For noble guests were spread,
    And out from the prime of that glorious time
      A youth a maiden led.

    And, standing in the chapel,
      The good old priest did say,
    "Will ye wed with one another?"
      And we smiled and we answer'd "Yea!"

    We sung, and our hearts they bounded
      To the thrilling lays we sung,
    And every note was doubled
      By the echo's catching tongue.

    And when, as eve descended,
      We left the silence still,
    And the setting sun look'd upward
      On that great castled hill;

    Then far and wide, like lord and bride,
      In the radiant light we shone--
    It sank; and again the ruins
      Stood desolate and lone!

       *       *       *       *       *

We shall now select, from the songs that are scattered throughout the tale of Wilhelm Meister,
one of the most genial and sweet. It is an in-door picture of evening, and of those odorous
flowers of life which expand their petals only at the approach of Hesperus.

PHILINE'S SONG.

    Sing not thus in notes of sadness
      Of the loneliness of night;
    No! 'tis made for social gladness,
      Converse sweet, and love's delight.

    As to rugged man his wife is,
      As his fairest half decreed,
    So dear night the half of life is,
      And the fairest half indeed.

    Canst thou in the day have pleasure,
      Which but breaks on rapture in,
    Scares us from our dreams of leisure
      With its glare and irksome din?

    But when night is come, and glowing
      Is the lamp's attemper'd ray,
    And from lip to lip are flowing
      Love and mirth, in sparkling play;

    When the fiery boy, that wildly
      Rushes in his wayward mood,
    Calms to rest, disporting mildly,
      By some trivial gift subdued;

    When the nightingale is trilling
      Songs of love to lovers' ears,
    Which, to hearts with sorrow thrilling,
      Seem but sighs and waken tears;

    Then, with bosom lightly springing,
      Dost thou listen to the bell,
    That, with midnight's number ringing,
      Speaks of rest and joy so well?

    Then, dear heart, this comfort borrow
      From the long day's lingering light--
    Every day hath its own sorrow,
      Gladness cometh with the night!

We are somewhat puzzled as to the title which we ought to prefix to our next specimen. Goethe
rather maliciously calls it "Gegenwart," which may be equivalent to the word "Presentiality,"
if, indeed, such a word belongs to the English language. We, therefore, prefer dedicating it
to our own ladye love; and we could not find for her any where a sweeter strain, unless we
were to commit depredation upon the minor poems of Ben Jonson or of Shakspeare.

TO MY MISTRESS.

    All that's lovely speaks of thee!
      When the glorious sun appeareth,
    'Tis thy harbinger to me:
      Only thus he cheereth.

    In the garden where thou go'st,
      There art thou the rose of roses,
    First of lilies, fragrant most
      Of the fragrant posies.

    When thou movest in the dance,
      All the stars with thee are moving,
    And around thee gleam and glance,
      Never tired of loving.

    Night!--and would the night were here!
      Yet the moon would lose her duty,
    Though her sheen be soft and clear,
      Softer is thy beauty!

    Fair, and kind, and gentle one!
      Do not moon, and stars, and flowers
    Pay that homage to their sun
      That we pay to ours?

    Sun of mine, that art so dear--
      Sun, that art above all sorrow!
    Shine, I pray thee, on me here
      Till the eternal morrow.

Another little poem makes us think of "poor Ophelia." We suspect that Goethe had the music
of her broken ballad floating in his mind, when he composed the following verses:--

THE WILD ROSE.

    A boy espied, in morning light,
        A little rosebud blowing.
    'Twas so delicate and bright,
    That he came to feast his sight,
        And wonder at its growing.
    Rosebud, rosebud, rosebud red,
        Rosebud brightly blowing!

    I will gather thee--he cried--
        Rosebud brightly blowing!
    Then I'll sting thee, it replied,
    And you'll quickly start aside
        With the prickle glowing.
    Rosebud, rosebud, rosebud red,
        Rosebud brightly blowing!

    But he pluck'd it from the plain,
        The rosebud brightly blowing!
    It turn'd and stung him, but in vain--
    He regarded not the pain,
        Homewards with it going.
    Rosebud, rosebud, rosebud red,
        Rosebud brightly blowing!

We are sure that the votaries of Wordsworth will thank us for the next translation, which embodies
a most noble idea. See how the eye of the poet is scanning the silent march of the heavens,
and mark with what solemn music he invests the stately thought!

A NIGHT THOUGHT.

    I do not envy you, ye joyless stars,
    Though fair ye be, and glorious to the sight--
    The seaman's hope amidst the 'whelming storm,
    When help from God or man there cometh none.
    No! for ye love not, nor have ever loved!
    Through the broad fields of heaven, the eternal hours
    Lead on your circling spheres unceasingly.
    How vast a journey have ye travell'd o'er,
    Since I, upon the bosom of my love,
    Forgot all memory of night or you!

Let us follow up these glorious lines with a conception worthy of Æschylus--indeed an abstract
of his master-subject. It were out of place here to dilate upon the mythical grandeur of Prometheus,
and the heroic endurance of his character, as depicted by the ancient poet. To our mind and
ear, the modern is scarcely inferior.

PROMETHEUS.

    Curtain thy heavens, thou Jove, with clouds and mist,
    And, like a boy that moweth thistles down,
    Unloose thy spleen on oaks and mountain-tops;
    Yet canst thou not deprive me of my earth,
    Nor of my hut, the which thou didst not build,
    Nor of my hearth, whose little cheerful flame
    Thou enviest me!

    I know not aught within the universe
    More slight, more pitiful than you, ye Gods!
    Who nurse your majesty with scant supplies
    Of offerings wrung from fear, and mutter'd prayers,
    And needs must starve, were't not that babes and beggars
    Are hope-besotted fools!

    When I was yet a child, and knew not whence
    My being came, nor where to turn its powers,
    Up to the sun I bent my wilder'd eye,
    As though above, within its glorious orb,
    There dwelt an ear to listen to my plaint,
    A heart, like mine, to pity the oppress'd.

    Who gave me succour
    Against the Titans in their tyrannous might?
    Who rescued me from death--from slavery?
    Thou!--thou, my soul, burning with hallow'd fire,
    Thou hast thyself alone achieved it all!
    Yet didst thou, in thy young simplicity,
    Glow with misguided thankfulness to him
    That slumbers on in idlesse there above!

    I reverence thee?
    Wherefore? Hast thou ever
    Lighten'd the sorrows of the heavy-laden?
    Thou ever stretch'd thy hand to still the tears
    Of the perplex'd in spirit?
    Was it not
    Almighty Time, and ever-during Fate--
    My lords and thine--that shaped and fashion'd me
    Into the MAN I am?

    Belike it was thy dream,
    That I should hate life--fly to wastes and wilds,
    For that the buds of visionary thought
    Did not all ripen into goodly flowers?

    Here do I sit, and mould
    Men after mine own image--
    A race that may be like unto myself,
    To suffer, weep; to enjoy, and to rejoice;
    And, like myself, unheeding all of thee!

We shall close this Number with a ballad of a different cast, but, lest the transition should
be too violent, we shall interpolate the space with a very beautiful lyric. We claim no merit
for this translation, for, to say the truth, we could not have done it half so well. Perhaps
the fair hand that penned it, will turn over the pages of Maga in distant Wales, and a happy
blush over-spread her cheek when she sees, enshrined in these columns, the effort of her maiden
Muse.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW LOVE, NEW LIFE.

    Heart--my heart! what means this feeling?
    Say what weighs thee down so sore?
    What new life is this revealing!
    What thou wert, thou art no more.
    All once dear to thee is vanish'd,
    All that marr'd thy peace is banish'd,
    Gone thy trouble and thine ease--
    Ah! whence come such woes as these?

    Does the bloom of youth bright-gleaming--
    Does that form of purest light--
    Do these eyes so sweetly beaming,
    Chain thee with resistless might?
    When the charm I'd wildly sever--
    Man myself to fly for ever--
    Ah! or yet the thought can stir,
    Back my footsteps fly to her.

    With such magic meshes laden,
    All too closely round me cast,
    Holds me that bewitching maiden,
    An unwilling captive fast.
    In her charméd sphere delaying,
    Must I live, her will obeying--
    Ah! how great the change in me!
    Love--O love, do set me free!

One other mood of love, and we leave the apprentice of Cornelius Agrippa to bring up the rear.
Goethe is said to have been somewhat fickle in his attachments--most poets are--but here is
one instance where passion appears to have prevailed over absence.

       *       *       *       *       *

SEPARATION.

    I think of thee whene'er the sun is glowing
              Upon the lake;
    Of thee, when in the crystal fountain flowing
              The moonbeams shake.

    I see thee when the wanton wind is busy,
              And dust-clouds rise;
    In the deep night, when o'er the bridge so dizzy
              The wanderer hies.

    I hear thee when the waves, with hollow roaring,
              Gush forth their fill;
    Often along the heath I go exploring,
              When all is still.

    I am with thee! Though far thou art and darkling,
              Yet art thou near.
    The sun goes down, the stars will soon be sparkling--
              Oh, wert thou here!

If we recollect right--for it is a long time since we studied the occult sciences--Wierius,
in his erudite volume "De Prestigiis Demonum," recounts the story which is celebrated in the
following ballad. Something like it is to be found in the biography of every magician; for
the household staff of a wizard was not complete without a famulus, who usually proved to be
a fellow of considerable humour, but endowed with the meddling propensities of a monkey. Thus,
Doctor Faustus of Wittenburg--not at all to be confounded with the illustrious printer--had
a perfect jewel in the person of his attendant Wagner; and our English Friar Bacon was equally
fortunate in Miles, his trusty squire. Each of these gentlemen, in their master's absence,
attempted a little conjuring on their own account; but with no better success than the nameless
attendant of Agrippa, whom Goethe has sought to immortalize. There is a great deal of grotesque
humour in the manufacture, agility, and multiplication of the domestic Kobold.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAGICIAN'S APPRENTICE.

    Huzzah, huzzah! His back is fairly
      Turn'd about, the wizard old;
    And I'll now his spirits rarely
      To my will and pleasure mould!
    His spells and orgies--ha'n't I
      Mark'd them all aright?
    And I'll do wonders, sha'n't I?
      And deeds of mickle might.
          Bubble, bubble;
          Fast and faster!
          Hear your master,
          Hear his calling--
          Water! flow in measures double,
          To the bath in torrents falling!

    Ho, thou batter'd broomstick! take ye
      This old seedy coat, and wear it--
    Ah, thou household drudge, I'll make ye
      Do my bidding; ay, and fear it.
    Stand on legs, old tramper!
      Here's a head--I've stuck it--
    Now be off--hey, scamper
      With the water-bucket!

    See, 'tis off--'tis at the river--
      In the stream the bucket flashes;
    Now 'tis back--and down, or ever
      You can wink; the burden dashes.
    Again, again, and quicker!
      The floor is in a swim,
    And every stoup and bicker
      Is running o'er the brim.
          Stop, now stop!
          For you've granted
          All I wanted
          Well and neatly--
          Gracious me! I'm like to drop--
          I've forgot the word completely!

    Oh, the word, so strong and baleful,
      To make it what it was before!
    There it skips with pail on pailful--
      Would thou wert a broom once more!
    Still new streams he scatters,
      Round and ever round me--
    Oh, a hundred waters
      Rushing in have bound me!
          No--no longer
          Can I bear it.
          No, I swear it!
          Gifts and graces!
          Woe is me, my fears grow stronger,
          Look what grinnings, what grimaces!

    Wilt thou, offspring of the devil,
      Soak the house to please thy funning?
    Even now, above the level
      Of the door the water's running.
    Broom accurst, that will not
      Hear, although I roar!
    Stick! be now, and fail not,
      What thou wert before!
          You will joke me?
          I'll not bear it,
          No, I swear it!
          I will catch you;
          And with axe, if you provoke me,
          In a twinkling I'll dispatch you.

    Back it comes--will nought prevent it?
      If I only turn me to thee,
    Soon, O Kobold! thou'lt repent it,
      When the steel goes crashing through thee.
    Bravely struck, and surely!
      There it goes in twain;
    Now I move securely,
      And I breathe again!
          Woe and wonder!
          As it parted,
          Up there started,
          'Quipp'd aright,
          Goblins twain that rush asunder.
          Help, oh help, ye powers of might!

    Deep and deeper grows the water
      On the stairs and in the hall,
    Rushing in with roar and clatter--
      Lord and master, hear me call!
    Ah, here comes the master--
      Sore, sir, is my straight;
    I raised this spirit faster
      Far than I can lay't.
          "To your hole!
          As you were, be
          Broom! and there be
          Still; for none
          But the wizard can control,
          And make you on his errands run!"

THE GREAT DROUGHT.

In the spring and summer of 1844 rain began to fail, and the first things that perished for
want of water died that year. But the moisture of the earth was still abundant, and the plants
which took deep root found sustenance below; so that the forest trees showed an abundance of
foliage, and the harvest in some kinds was plentiful. Towards the autumn rain returned again,
and every thing appeared to be recovering its former order; but the dry winter, the dry spring,
dry summer of the next year, told upon the face of creation. Many trees put forth small and
scanty leaves, and many perished altogether; whole species were cut off; for instance, except
where they were artificially preserved, one could not find a living ash or beech--few were
kept alive by means of man; for water began to be hoarded for the necessaries of life. The
wheat was watered, and, where such a thing was possible, the hay-fields also; but numbers of
animals died, and numbers were killed this year--the first from thirst, and the last to reduce
the consumers of the precious element. Still the rich commanded the necessaries, and many of
the luxuries of life; and the arts which required a consumption of water were carried on as
yet, and continued in practice even longer than prudence warranted: so strong was the force
of habit, and the pressure of the artificial necessities which they supplied. The railroads
were as yet in activity, and when water failed along the line, it was brought from the sea
by the rich companies concerned in the traffic; only the fares were raised, and the trains
which ran for pleasure merely, were suspended. But, in the midst of business and interest,
there was a deep gloom. Projects which affected the fortunes of nations were in suspense, because
there was no rain. Cares for the succession of crowns, and the formation of constitutions,
might all be futile, if there should be no rain: and it seemed as if there never would be any;
for this was now the third year, and the earth had not received a shower. And now, ceasing
to be supplied from their usual sources, the springs and rivers withered and shrank. Water
became in many places not dear, but unattainable. The greatest people of the land left it,
and used their wealth in chasing the retreating element from place to place on the earth. In
some cases, among these luxurious spirits there were scenes of extravagant revelry still; they
had no employment except to live, and they endeavoured to make the act of living as exciting
as their old amusements had been. But accounts of foreign countries came more and more rarely
to England; for when the fourth rainless year arrived, drought and famine had slain three-fourths
of its inhabitants, and commerce and agriculture were alike suspended. When a vessel came as
far up in the mouth of a river as the sinking waters permitted, it brought tidings of desolation
from whatever port it had left. Stories began to spread of dry land in parts of the ocean where
it had never been seen before; marks which had stood in the deep of the sea might now be walked
round at all times of the tide, and thick crusts of salt were beginning to spread upon tracts
of the great deep. These tidings from foreign lands came at long intervals, and at long intervals
was a ship sent from any English haven. The few dwellers of the coast knew not if there were
still any dwellers of the interior: for England was become like the desert; and there were
no beasts to carry one across it, and no water to be hoarded in skins for the passage. Traffic
of every kind ceased; industry was gone; the secrets of science, and the cultivated mind of
the philosopher, were all bent to the production of water; and many a precious object was resolved
back into its elements, and afforded a scanty supply to a few parched mouths. The lingering
inhabitants had the produce of past years only to live upon, which nothing replenished as it
diminished, and to renew which the baked earth was wholly incompetent.

In the heart of this desert, there was a family which had hitherto survived the destruction
of life around them. It consisted of a father and mother, and two young children, Charles and
Alice; the last of whom, the girl, was but a few months old when the Great Drought began. They
had lived in Derbyshire, near the range of low hills called the Peak; and they and other inhabitants
of that region had found water longer than many others, from the sides of the hills, and from
excavations which they had made in the rocks. The strong hope and expectation of rain had kept
them lingering on as long as any supply lasted; and Paulett, who in the days when ranks existed,
had been a great landlord, had used both his knowledge and his influence to supply the wants
of the people, and to postpone their destruction. But those days were gone by; his possessions
were so much dust: he wanted water, and nobody wanted any thing else. He was a mere man now,
like those who are born naked and die naked, and had to struggle with the needs of nature,
even as every one else. Meantime his education availed him; and the resources which it taught
him prolonged the lives of his family and himself. But he was soon obliged to limit himself
to this sole care; for the supply he obtained was scanty, and he knew how precarious it must
be. He had explored the cavern of the Peak with great attention, and he bored the rock in various
places, and used means suggested by his knowledge of natural causes, which had procured a slender
flow of water into a basin which he had made. The fury of thirsty men for water was so great,
that he was obliged to keep his secret with the utmost care; and towards the end of the fourth
year, he removed his wife and children to the cavern itself, and blocked up the entrance, in
such a manner that he could defend it against any chance survivor. There was no want of the
luxuries of furniture in the cavern--all the splendours of the land were at the command of
those who would take them; and Paulett brought there whatever had adorned his home when the
earth was a fit dwelling-place for man. There was velvet and down to lie upon; there were carpets
on which the little Alice could roll; there were warm dresses, and luxurious ornaments of the
toilette; whatever could be used for comfort he had brought, and all other precious things
he had left in his open house, locking himself and his family up with only water. At first
there would come sometimes a miserable man or woman, tracing the presence of living creatures,
and crying for water. Paulett or his wife supplied several, and when they had been refreshed,
they revealed the secret to others; or, being strengthened themselves, felt the desperate desire
of life revive, and attempted violence to get at the treasure. After this the inhabitants of
the cavern fell back to mere self-preservation; and the father and mother were able to harden
their hearts against others, by looking at the two creatures whom they had born into the world,
and who depended upon them. But, indeed, life seemed to shrink rapidly to nothing over the
face of the country. It was very rare to see a moving form of any kind--skeletons of beasts
and men were in plenty, and their white bones lay on the arid soil; or even their withered
shapes, dried by the air and the sun, were stretched out on the places where they had ceased
to suffer: but life was most rare, and it became scarcely necessary to use any precaution against
an invader of their store. The dreadful misery was, that this store diminished. The heart of
the earth seemed drying, and was ceasing to be capable of yielding moisture, even to the utmost
wrenching of science. There was so little one hot day, that Paulett and Ellen scarcely moistened
their lips after their meal of baked corn, and warned their children that the draught they
received was the only one that could be given them. Charles was now seven years old, and had
learned to submit, but his longing eyes pleaded for more; little Alice was clamorous, and the
mother felt tears overflow her eyes to think that there was no possibility of yielding to that
childish peevishness, and that the absolute non-existence of water must punish her poor child's
wilfulness. When Paulett had set his instruments to work, to renew if possible the supply,
and when Ellen had removed the silver cups and dishes which had held their corn and water,
he and she sat down at the mouth of the cavern, and the little ones got their playthings, and
placed them on piece of rock not far off. The mouth of the cave is lofty, and there is a sort
of terrace running along one side, at the foot of which lay the channel of the stream, that
was now dry. The view is down the first reach of a narrow valley, which turns presently afterwards,
and so shuts out the world beyond from sight; and the hill on each side rises high, and from
its perpendicularity seems even higher than it is. The shade of the cavern was deep and cool,
but the sky glowed with the heat and light of the sun, and there was not a cloud to hinder
him from burning up the earth. The hill-sides, the channel where the brook had flowed, the
stones of the cave, were all equally bare; there was no sound of voice, or bird, or insect--no
cool drop from the ceiling of the cave--no moisture even in the coolness of the shadow. Ellen
leaned her head on her husband, and Paulett pressed his arm round her--both of them were thinking
of the basin empty of water.

"Ellen," said Paulett, "I think the time is come when the elements shall melt with fervent
heat. It seems like the conflagration of the world; not indeed as we have always fancied it,
with flames and visible fire, but not the less on that account the action of heat. It is perhaps
the Last Day."

"I hope it is," said Ellen, "I hope it is; I wish those precious creatures may be among those
that are alive and remain, and may be spared the torments of this thirsty death."

"You and I could bear it, if they were gone," said Paulett, glancing at them and withdrawing
his eyes.

"Oh, yes!" said Ellen, pressing near to him, and taking his hand in both hers. They were silent,
and they heard the children talking as they played.

"There is King Alexander," said Charles, setting up a pebble--"he is going to dinner. Put the
dinner, Alice."

Alice set out several other pebbles before King Alexander.

"And he has got a great feast. There is plenty of water, more than he can drink; and he drinks,
drinks, as much as he likes, and still there is plenty of water when he goes to bed."

"Poor children! I can't bear it," said Ellen.

"Oh, Ellen, it would have been better never to have given them birth!" said Paulett.

"No--not that," said Ellen, sitting down again; "though they must suffer, they are better to
be; when this suffering has dissolved their bodies--on the other side of these mortal pains
there is ease and happiness."

"True, true, dear Ellen," said Paulett; "it is only difficult to die."

He held her hand; and while he did so, his eye fastened on a diamond ring which she wore. She
observed his fixed look.

"You gave me that when we little thought how it was we should part--when I was a bride--and
there was all the pleasure and business of the world round us. It hardly seems as if we were
the same creatures."

"No, we are not; for I am thinking, concerning that ring which you were never to part with,
whether I could not convert the diamond into water."

"How, Paulett?"

"I can't explain it to you; but it has just crossed my mind that it is possible; and if so,
there are still plenty of jewels in the world to keep us alive."

He drew off the ring as he spoke, and went into the interior of the cave, whither Ellen followed
him. There was a fire, and some apparatus belonging to Paulett, which he had used in experiments
upon the decreasing water of the basin. He knocked the stone out of its setting, and applied
himself to decompose it over the fire. He put forth all his skill and all his power, and was
successful; the diamond disappeared, and there remained a few drops of water. He looked at
his wife and smiled; she raised her eyes to his, astonished and pleased, took the cup from
his hand, and looked at the precious metamorphosis.

"I'll give it the children," she said, and was going away; but he stopped her. "No, Ellen,
there is not enough to do any good; you and I will drink each other's health in it; and he
put the cup first to her lips and then to his own. God bless you, my Ellen!" he said, "my wife--I
pledge you again with that diamond. The first drop of water comes from the stone that plighted
my faith to you, and may it bring you health and happiness yet."

"God bless you, my husband! If we could but die now!"

CHAPTER II.

Paulett now exerted himself to collect all the diamonds that remained without owners in the
neighbourhood. First he visited his own forsaken home, and took thence the jewels, which he
had neglected in his retreat from it, but which were now as precious as water. He found no
great store even after ransacking all the houses within reach, and determined to undertake
a longer journey in search of more. The basin in the cavern continued to yield a scanty supply
of water; and Paulett extracted a small quantity from his stones. He made what provision he
could for his family before setting out; and for his own necessities took the smallest possible
portion, in a silver vessel, which was most preciously secured, and concealed about his person.
It was a strange parting between his wife and him, both of them feeling and saying, that alive
they should probably not meet again: yet death was so near them constantly, and was so far
better than life, that his presence had grown familiar; and it was only the mode in which he
would come that made them anxious. Paulett perishing alone of thirst was the fearful image
to Ellen, and Ellen and her children waiting for him in vain, and dying one after the other
for want of his help, was the dread of Paulett. They stood in the cavern, and embraced each
other silently, and blessed their children with the same prayer for the last time. The little
ones received and returned his caress, and Paulett quitted the cavern and set out on his uncertain
expedition.

The face of the country was so much changed that he had some difficulty in making his way.
The vivid colours of the earth were all gone, and in place of them was the painful greyness
of the dead trees, and the yellow of the parched soil. Nothing was overthrown in ruin, but
all stood dead in its place. The shapes of men and animals only lay strewn upon the earth.
The human beings were comparatively rare; they were the last survivors of the destroying drought
whom there had been none to bury; but these at length had died by hundreds, and in places their
bones were seen whiter than any other object; or if any where over the surface there hung a
vapour, it came from some collection of dead bodies which had not yet been resolved into the
elements. Those whom he found there were mostly in heaps--the beasts had died singly; near
what had been water-courses he saw more than once signs of struggle, and the last battles of
earth had been fought for possession of its waters. He traced out many a pathetic story among
the dry bones and faded garments. Women's dresses were there; and fallen into a shapeless heap
on what had been their bosom, were little forms, and the raiment of children. Where the dry
air and the sun had preserved the face, he beheld the fallen estate of those who had been men
in the uncovered shame of death; the wide open lips, the sunken eyes, over which the eyelid
was undrawn, the swollen tongue, the frame writhed into an expression of anguish, revealed
all the pain and shame of death. But here and there, the hand of some one who had been a survivor,
was visible in the attempt to conceal all this. In one place there was a shallow grave, into
which a body had been rolled, and lay on its side; and close by, on a heap of clothes, out
of which bones appeared, there was a spade with which the unfinished work had been attempted.
In another, a female body was covered from sun and moon by a man's cloak; and a few paces off
lay a man, whom nothing shielded. There was an infant's skeleton wrapped in a woman's shawl,
under what had been a hawthorn hedge; the mother had either perished attempting to find water,
or had laid her child down, and gone away, like Hagar in the desert, not to see it die. The
poor innocent's skull was turned on its shoulder; its cheek must have rested there while the
face remained. It was too young to have struggled much. Paulett thought of his little Alice;
of her unconsciousness to the fate around her; of what would be her and Charles's and poor
Ellen's fate, if he failed in his search, or perished by the way. He roused himself from looking
on all these sorrowful objects, and went on his dreary way. The second day after he left the
cavern, he came to a stately pile of building, which he determined to explore for the life-giving
stones he was in search of. It stood upon its terraces, surrounded by its colonnades and garden-steps,
in all its old pride and beauty. Its forests were withered indeed, its gardens burned, its
fountains dry; but the palace glanced back the sunlight, and was as steadfast and perfect as
in the days of the living. Paulett drew near, and found, as he came close, signs of the last
days of life in it. The doors were opened to the air; and a few marks of objects removed, remained
in the outer rooms. There was scoring and dragging on the marble floor; and Paulett doubted
for a moment what had left these marks, till he saw on one side of a gilded table, a barrel,
lying there empty, from which the top, as it seemed, had been accidentally knocked, and the
liquor had flowed out. The marble bore the stain of wine, and where it had flowed, the slabs
were broken in two places, perhaps from the violence of the struggle of those who saw the liquid
flow, to wet each one his own parched lips. Paulett thought the lord of the castle had probably
deserted it before the worst crisis arrived, and had tried to remove what was most valuable
in his possession. He went on through long galleries and magnificent rooms, all silent as death,
statues, which represented man in his glory and his strength; books, which were the work of
that high spirit, now extinguished under the pressure of bodily wants; luxurious superfluities,
which were for better days of the world--all was valueless, all open; he might go where he
would, till at length one door resisted his efforts, and seemed to have been barred with a
certain care from within. Paulett's heart beat high. Was there some one still living like himself;
another human creature struggling for existence in this great world, and guarding, as he had
done in his cavern, his treasure of water? Should he have another companion to speak with;
another, with whom, perhaps, to get over the evil days; to whom to communicate his secret of
producing water from diamonds? For the first time since he left the cavern, he spoke aloud--he
called--he called in the great silence of the earth, but nothing answered him. If any one were
still alive, he might be afraid of another living creature--had not he himself left pistols
loaded for his poor Ellen, to defend her life and her children, if any human being should come
near her? He gently shook the door; then proceeded to more violence, and forced it open. It
was the door of a great dining-room, on whose lofty ceiling, as he entered it, wreaths of smoke
rolled, which the air had put in motion, and a heavy smell, as of burned charcoal, struck him
as he entered. There were no living creatures--the inhabitants were all dead in the last posture
of life. The table was covered with silver and gold vessels, and among them were dead flowers
and fruits, dried by the close chamber. It should seem they had drunk deeply before they died
here--perhaps they had collected the last liquids, and resolved to perish when they had once
more feasted: for there was wine still in some of the vessels, nay, in one there was water;
and the ghostly shapes were adorned and fantastically covered with jewels and velvet, and all
sort of rare and exquisite ornaments. Some were still on chairs, some fallen forward on the
table, some prostrate, as if they had lain down to sleep. There were fragments of shivered
glass on the floor; there was a statue broken to pieces on the table, on the pedestal of which
was written "Patience;" there were pieces of torn paper in the hands of one, which seemed a
letter; all these faint shadowings of long stories, and of a scene of which there remained
no witness, struck Paulett's eye. One had sunk down by the silver tripod in which the charcoal
had burned, and the match that fired it was amongst his garments. One face was there, resting
on a sofa, still perfect enough to show it had been a beautiful woman; and roses, artfully
made close to nature, crowned the long hair which fell upon arms from which the flesh had withered.
On the neck were diamonds, on the hands diamonds--diamonds had confined the ringlets--diamonds
sparkled on the feet. Paulett shuddered as he took them away. The spirit, indeed, was gone;
but here was the last act of the spirit before it plunged into an unknown region, it knew not
where. Paulett asked himself where. "A little longer," said he, "and they must have died; could
not they wait their time, and take patience with death? Must they die in drunkenness, in madness;
worse than beasts?" Then his own thirsty eyes fixed on the table, where, in the light of the
sun, the water sparkled, and gave rainbow rays. He forgot all beside, in the impulse which
urged him to seize and drink--to drink the first draught--to satiate his throat with water.
He drank and revived; and then blamed himself for yielding so passionately to the impulse which
was now passed away; and as it passed, the horror of the scene around him acquired greater
force, and he longed to be out of its influence. He made haste to collect all the jewels around
him, and when he had done, found that his burden was as much as he could safely carry. He went
hastily out of the room, as if any of these figures could rise and follow him, and fastened
the door again, where the crime had been wrought. He hastily crossed the marble halls and gilded
rooms, and came out in the sunlight--the splendid, solemn sunlight that looked upon a burnt-up
world!

CHAPTER III.

Meantime, poor Ellen waited anxiously in the cavern, and as soon as the first possible moment
for Paulett's return was passed, her fears grew strong. There was so much danger for him in
the bare desert, with his scanty supply of water, that she might well listen to fear as soon
as it had any reason to make itself heard; and with this dread, when she next drew water from
her scanty supply, came the horrible torment of the anticipated death by thirst, which seemed
descending upon her children and her. The day she had thought he would return rose and set,
and so did another and another; and from fearing, she had begun to believe, indeed, that Paulett's
earthly hours were passed. Yet hope would not be subdued entirely; and then she felt that perhaps
by prolonging their lives another day only, she should save them to welcome him, and to profit
by his hard-earned treasure. The store of water was sacredly precious. She dealt it out in
the smallest portions to her children, and she herself scarcely wetted her lips; she hardened
her heart to see her boy's pale face, her girl's feverish eye; she checked even the motherly
tenderness of her habits, lest the softening of her heart should overcome her resolution; and
so she laid them in their beds the third night of her dread, when indeed there was scarce another
day's supply. She herself lay on hers, but deadly anxiety kept her from sleeping, and her ears
ached with the silence which ought to have been broken by a step. And at last, oh joy! there
was a foot--yes, a few moments made that certain, which from the first indeed she believed,
but which was so faint that it wanted confirmation to her bodily sense. Up sprang Ellen, and
darted to meet him. She held forward the candle into the air, and, lo! it was a woman. Ellen
screamed aloud; the woman had seen her before and said nothing, only pressed forward. "Who
are you?" cried Ellen; "are you alive?" "Yes, just alive; and see here," said the woman, uncovering
the face of her young child--"my child is just alive too; give me water before it dies." "Then
my children will perish," said Ellen. "No, no," said the woman; "how are you alive now unless
you have plenty? All mine are gone but this one; my husband died yesterday; ours has been gone
for days." "My husband is dead, too," said Ellen, "and I have only one draught left." "Then
I will take it," said the mother, rushing forward. Ellen caught her and struggled with her;
the poor child moaned in its mother's arms, and a pang shot through the heart of Ellen. "For
God's sake, miserable woman," she said, "do not go near that basin! You are mad with want;
you will leave none for my children. Stay here, and I will bring your child water. You and
I can want, and yours and mine shall drink." But the desperate woman pressed on; her eyes fixed
on the water, and dilated with intense desire; her lips wide open, dying almost for the draught.
Ellen's soul was concentred in the fear, that the last hope of her boy and girl's life was
about to be lost; she struggled with the woman with all her might; she screamed aloud; she
lost her hold; she seized a pistol from the table, and close as she was to her adversary, fired
it full at her. The mother fell, with a shriek. Ellen started forward and broke her fall, and
laid hold on the child to free it from her dying grasp. "Give him me, give him me!" said the
mother, struggling to lift herself up, and stretching her hands out for the boy. The trembling
Ellen stooped to give him to her, but the child's head dropped on one side as she held him
out; he made no effort to get into his mother's arms. Ellen wildly raised his face, and he
was dead too. The shot had gone through his breast to his mother's, and a little blood began
to steal from his lips. "He's dead!" said the mother, who was herself passing away. "Oh, my
boy!" and then feebly, with her fast-failing strength, she raised him, after more than one
effort, in her arms, and pressed her lips to his twice, with all the passion that death left
in her. The wasted form of the child lay there, all pale and withered, the straight brown hair
was parted on his thin forehead; the mother's uncovered breast, where his head rested, was
white, and the hands delicate; the raiment was luxurious; that head had not been reared in
the expectation of dying on a bed of rock. Ellen burst into floods of tears, and wrung her
hands as she stood by, looking on what she had done. The woman lifted her eyes, and tried to
form her lips into a smile; she no longer felt any vehement passion, and the torment of thirst
was now only one of the pangs of death. Her eyes wandered to the water, but when Ellen moved
to fetch some, she stopped her.

"No; it was for him. He is at ease now. You did right. Don't grieve."

"Forgive me," said Ellen, kneeling down at her side.

"Oh yes! the poor precious babe suffers no more. I was mad; you said truly in that. I nursed
him at my breast till his lips grew dry even there; we lived not far from your cavern, and
I have seen you, and been glad you had water. We had some. We? Yes, is not my husband dead;
and my boy is dead too! See, there is blood on his face; wipe it away; he will die else." Ellen's
sobs caught her wandering attention. "I remember now, you killed him; oh, good angel, guardian
angel! you have killed him, and there is only I to suffer. He is gone from this dear, dear
body; I wish it did not look so like him still--and it looks in pain too--it looks thirsty."

Ellen hid her own face on the mother's shoulder for an instant.--Her children had awakened
at the noise of the pistol, and they were out of bed and clinging around her; her sorrow roused
theirs, and the sound of their lamentation reached the dying woman's ear.

"There are my children crying. Alas! I thought they had all been dead."

"They are mine," said Ellen. "Yours are at rest, yours are all dead."

"Thank God!" said the mother; and though the words were earnest, the voice was faint; all the
effort of nature was in them, but they came feebly from her lips. After that, indistinct sounds
and murmured names only were heard; her breath came in gasps, and at longer and longer intervals;
till the faint shuddering of her limbs ceased by degrees, and after it had been insensible
to the world for a while, the spirit quitted it for ever. Ellen's heart died within her; her
senses were troubled, and she pressed herself in Paulett's arms without knowing when he came,
or being surprised that he was there. "Oh, Paulett!" she said at last, "I have not done wrong,
but it is so dreadful!" Paulett soon gathered from her all that had happened; and gazed with
pity on what had once been a beautiful form, but rejoiced that it suffered no longer. Ellen,
shuddering, arranged the dress, composed the limbs, and, with a thousand tears, placed the
infant on that breast which had been so faithfully its mother to the last. And there they slept,
mother and child--the day of trouble ended for both.

"My poor Ellen," said Paulett, "I wish it were thou and my children who were there at rest!"
and Ellen pressed her Charles and her Alice to her heart, and would have been glad if they
had indeed been dead.

CHAPTER IV.

In that time of trouble and of unexampled events, the mind received impressions in a different
manner from what it had ever done before. The stern gloom that hung over the future, the hazard
upon which life was suspended, the close contact with universal death, and the desperate struggle
by which it was staved off, gave to all things a new character; and the scene of the last chapter
was but one of the series of deadly and dreadful excitements which were now the habit of every
day. The solemn frame of mind which it induced in Ellen, was of a piece with the solemn nature
of their existence; and she could talk of it with her husband at any time, and not disturb
the natural bent which their conversation took. They searched the immediate neighbourhood for
the habitation of the unhappy mother and her family; and the marks of her footsteps on the
dust of the soil enabled them to trace her to Hope, a village in the plain, two miles, or rather
more, from the Peak. She and her husband had used the church for their habitation, and it seemed
had employed the same kind of precaution as Paulett to defend it and conceal that it was their
dwelling. One entrance only was left, and the other apertures blocked up; but all care was
useless now, for death had set them free from pain and fear. On a bed beside the altar lay
the body of a man, over which as spread a cloak of fur and velvet, which in the lifetime of
the world would have been most precious. His eyes were decently closed, the curtains of the
bed drawn round him, and the pillow which supported his head was marked with the pressure of
another head, and with moisture which could have been only the tears of his wife. The floor
of the church was in confusion, like the dwelling of one too much distracted with trouble to
attend to what did not relate to it; but there was corn which had served for food, and fuel
heaped on the stone which had been a hearth--there was the drawing of a lovely woman and of
a beautiful place: but these were cast into a corner, probably by the irritable hand of despair.
On a table stood empty cups, which had long, perhaps, been dry--the glass of one had been shivered,
and the fragments lay on the floor; there were also a few books, neglected and covered with
dust. In the churchyard were the marks of three recent graves--one of them had a stone at its
head, on which was carved with care the name of Alfred, and the soil was fenced and supported
with sticks, so as to preserve its shape over the body--probably it was that of the first child
whom the parents had committed to dust. Another was more hastily prepared, and no superfluous
labour had been bestowed on it. This must be the last, when heart and health were both failing.
Paulett and Ellen kneeled and prayed beside them, and rejoiced that the mother, too, was at
rest after the long misery of this scene. They returned to their cave, and, under the shadow
of the rock near the old course of the brook, laid both mother and child, covering their bodies
with stones, and thinking more of the probable reunion, in some unknown scene, of the spirits
of that family, than of the distance which separated their graves on this earth.

And now, with good store of diamonds, and with increasing skill and success in the resolution
of them into water, both Paulett and Ellen looked upon the lives of all as safe for the present,
and their thoughts were at liberty to wander to some other subject. They believed that they
and their children were alone in the world, for every sign of life from other countries, as
well as their own, had ceased. It was very long since any human tidings had come, and though,
after men had done with each other, birds continued their migrations, these had now long been
over, and the years passed away without bringing or sending a single wing. The course of the
seasons, too, was strange and unnatural. It seemed as if the earth performed its usual course
in the heavens, and kept its place and functions in the movements of the planets; days and
nights varied in their length according to the season, and the heat of the sun was at one time
of the year great and at another weak: but much that depended hitherto upon the constitution
of the globe was suspended. There were no clouds in the sky, no dews dropping from the air,
no reproduction in the earth. It seemed decayed and dying of old age. Yet Paulett said, a new
existence would, perhaps, arise on this same scene, and from these same elements. Once before,
the earth had been reduced to eight persons by the action of water; and now the absence of
the same element had brought it to four. Charles and Alice might be the destined parents of
a new race, and those names that were so familiar now, might become the venerable appellations
of the founders of the third race of man. Ellen smiled and shook her head, looking at the boy
and girl, who were building a house of pebbles; and both parents listened for a while to what
they were saying. Charles recollected the house he had dwelt in before the great shipwreck
of human life drove then to the cavern; and he was teaching Alice that there were rooms below
and rooms above, and that he had heard how people like their father had carried great stones,
and put them one on another to make these rooms. Alice persisted in making her house one hollow
cavern; and the other she called Charles's house, and did not understand his recommendation.

"Charles is taking the part already of a teacher, in whom remains the traditionary knowledge
of an old world," said Paulett; "and Alice represents the new inhabitants, who have their own
rude copies of natural objects, but who will be open to the training of the learned man."

"The learned man will be their father," said Ellen; "they will gladly take their notions from him."

"Yes; but if it should be so destined, the first generation must work hard merely to live--they
must be very long ignorant of every thing except a paternal government, and such habitations
as can be raised or appropriated most easily. They will be children in comparison to Charles
all their lives, if we can but succeed in giving him the ideas of the age we have lived in.
Fancy them, Ellen, increased to perhaps fifty inhabitants before he dies, a very old man, coming
round his chair to hear of the wonderful steam-engine, and the use of the telescope, and to
learn the art of printing, and the list of different languages which Romans, Frenchmen, Germans,
Greeks, used; and what lions were, and horses."

"Or tell them how he and Alice escaped from the great drought," said Ellen. "But, alas! it
is far more likely he and she will perish in it, and then of what use is this knowledge to him?"

"Why--his soul. 'It is a thing immortal like thyself;' and if what he knows is of no use here,
it will be useful elsewhere."

"What!" said Ellen, smiling--"are there railroads and telescopes in another world?"

"For aught I can tell. At all events, the powers that contrive them here may contrive something
from the same principles hereafter."

"But we can tell nothing about the other world," said Ellen.

"Nay, this is another world to the stars; and, if we know nothing about our destiny, the only
way we have to judge is by what we actually are, and tend to be, now. So, while life remains,
I will teach my boy all I know, and go on as a man of this world ought to do; then we shall
be ready for every thing."

Accordingly, Paulett every day carried on his son's education, as far as the boy's age permitted,
and instructed him in all that he would have learned had the world been as it was formerly.
Only, like a man in a shipwreck looking forward to a desert island as his best hope, he dwelt
most upon what would be usefullest, supposing Charles (being preserved) to have to provide
for the physical necessities of a new race of man. Next in order came science and arts; and
it was easier to make him feel the merits of these than of the exploits of men, especially
when they consisted of valour, and of the deeds of conquerors; for the heroic virtues seemed
to take a new character in the present circumstances of the world; and whereas they used to
kindle and blaze in personal danger, and at the sound of the applause of men, they now burned
brightly in the endurance of a world's dissolution, which, with all its terrors and prolonged
impressions, must be met by the calm, self-sustaining spirit, rising superior to the greatest
excess of physical injury. The boy's soul replied to the call upon it. He learned to look on
the dangers before him, and to consider the possibility of escape with quiet calculation of
chances. He inured himself to privation readily, and eagerly tried to spare his mother and
Alice from it. He and his father, hand in hand, walked over the desolate land, realizing the
idea that they were in fact spirits, superior to all physical things, and divided from spirits
and their sphere only by their frail connexion with a body. They talked of virtue and duty,
and how good it was to dwell in these painful bodies, since they were the place wherein virtue
was practised and duty learned; and the father taught the son that the opportunities occurred,
not only in enduring the dissolution of the frame of present things, and in the untiring exertion
to aid and support life in those who were of weaker sex than they, but in abiding with even
and cheerful temper the vexations of every day, and in adorning as far as possible, as well
as preserving, life. The mother was heroic, good, and patient, too. She brought her children,
night and morning, to the mouth of the cavern, and there they all kneeled by Paulett, who prayed
aloud with them and for them. Then Ellen made ready their meal, which must all be prepared
without water, and which consisted of the stores from former harvests, of which there was abundance
laid up in various houses; and the little Alice, who could run at her mother's side, learned
to be useful in some matters, and patient and obedient. Charles played with her and taught
her; and he himself, mere child as he was, grew merry in his play, and earnest; and many a
time the profound silence of the earth was broken by the hearty laugh of children, which would
ring out through the cavern, and reverberate against its walls. They grew, and were perfect
and beautiful in shape; their minds developed, and talents and virtues filled them. They were
types of man and woman--the one bold and protecting, the other seeking for affection and defence.
They flourished when means appeared inadequate to their support; and, amid a paralysed world,
it was in them only that body and spirit seemed to unfold.

CHAPTER V.

Time passed on, and there was no change in the state of things. Still an unclouded sun--still
the deep, intense blue sky--winds on the earth but no moisture; and the whole frame of nature
seemed crumbling into chaos. Paulett felt the strife with fate to be unequal indeed, and could
scarcely comprehend that he and his family were truly survivors amid such destruction; but
he resolved not to give in, while the means remained to him, but to fight the fight out till
overpowered by the material universe. He told Ellen that they must move to some place where
they might hope to find more diamonds, and Ellen agreed--wishing with Paulett that the strife
were over and the last agony suffered, and that they were among the free and disembodied spirits.
London was their object; for there they might hope to find most of the materials of what was
now the most precious of all things, water; and providing as well as they could for their necessities
by the way, they quitted the cavern, and set off on their journey.

First came the father, carrying the little Alice in his arms; the boy held his mother by the
hand; and they followed Paulett on his path. There was the delicate woman, the mother of all
that remained alive of the human race, setting out on the desert, which she remembered, but
a few years before, the scene of luxury and abundance. On her shoulder she carried a burthen
containing corn for their sustenance; and the brave boy took his share by bearing the jar of
water which had been provided for their support on the journey; and thus the last family of
mankind set out on their pilgrimage over the desolated earth. The unmitigated sun had made
great rents in the sides of the hills, and, together with the wind, had broken up the roads,
between which and the parched fields there was scarcely now any difference. Where there had
been inclosures and hedges, the withered sticks had in most places yielded to the winds, and
were scattered about the spot where they had stood. Here and there were the marks of fire,
which had run along the country till some interval of previous desolation had stopped it; and
where this had been the case, the black unsightly remains lay strewn over the surface, one
further step advanced in dissolution than the dead world around. There was no want of habitations
for their nightly shelter. Palaces and cottages, all alike, were open; all alike were silent
and tenantless habitations. They might choose where they would. And the first day they did
not go far, for Ellen and her children, with stout hearts, had not bodily strength for great
fatigue, and were unused to the strong exertion they were now compelled to make. Towards evening,
therefore, when they reached a house with which Paulett and Ellen had once been familiar, they
determined to rest there for the night. They pushed open the gates, which still swung on their
hinges, and which admitted them to what had been a park, filled once with trees, and bathed
with waters. A large wood covered the hill which rose on one side, and which now, under a summer
sun, stood perfectly bare, and all of one uniform grey colour as far as the view extended.
On the other side, the eye looked over a tract of country varied with hill and dale, but desolate
of every colour that used to shine forth in light and shade. The setting sun shone among the
leafless branches, casting long brilliant rays of light. The unclouded sky met the sparkling
earth, and both glittered with unnatural brilliancy. To Paulett and Ellen, every thing spoke
of desolation and death; and an exclamation escaped Ellen, in a low tone, that it was a piteous
and horrible spectacle. But Charles, standing still at their side as they looked on the scene,
cried it was beautiful; the colours of the sun were so splendid on the fine white trees, and
one could see so far, and every thing was so white and shining on the earth. The parents felt
that ideas were ceasing to be in common between the last and the first members of the old and
the new generation; and far from contradicting their boy, they tried to partake his pleasure
and enter into his impressions. They moved on up to the old familiar door and entered the open
silent hall, where they remembered the ceremonies and the courtesies of life. They chose among
the rooms which had been those of friends, and recognised familiar objects of their everyday
existence. It was a conceit of Paulett's, for which he smiled at himself, to wind up the clock
in the hall, and set it to tell out the time again for another week. There were musical instruments
in a room adjoining, and over one of these Ellen timidly passed her fingers. It was out of
tune, and the sounds, though sweet in themselves, all jarred with one another.

"That's the last music of the world, perhaps," said Ellen; "and all discord too."

They found some small store of corn in one of the rooms; they prepared and ate it, and lay
down to sleep; forgetting in fatigue all their dismal feelings, and in their dreams seeing
the old state of things and dead persons--nay, a dead world--without wondering that they were
come to life again. All the days of their journey wore an uniform character; and they kept
on and on through waste and ruin, glad to leave the country behind them, and expecting, as
some relief, the aspect of streets and a town. They halted, at length, within a few miles of
London, and lay down to rest, thankful to be so near their bourne; for they had suffered as
much fatigue as they could well bear, and their stock of diamonds was waxing very low and needed
replenishment. Paulett continued busy preparing water from part of those that remained, after
his wife and children were asleep. His own frame scarcely felt the exertion of the journey,
and he was full of the thoughts with which the approaching sight of what had been once the
great metropolis filled him. The vast untenanted dwelling-place, the solitude of the habitation
of crowds, the absence of mind and talent from the scene they had so filled; all these things
excited his feelings, and gaining ground in the solitude of the night he felt at last that
he could not willingly delay his first meeting with the bereaved city, and that he should be
pleased to have an opportunity of indulging alone the highly-wrought emotion with which he
expected the sight of it. Accordingly, when the light began to break, he wrote word to Ellen
that she should wait for him a few hours, and that he would be back again in that time to lead
her and the children to their journey's end; and then, softly leaving the house, set forward
eagerly on his way.

It was evening before he returned. He came in pale and excited; he took his children in his
arms as usual, and seemed like one upon whom a thing which he has seen has made a deep impression,
but who either doubts the power of words to convey the same impression, or thinks that he himself
is over-excited by it.

"Ellen," he said at last, "London is burned to the ground."

The sudden flush on her face, and her clasped hands, while she spoke not, showed that the event
touched her, too, as deeply as him; and then he went on freely--

"Oh, Ellen! if you had seen it! It stands there, all in ruins--the whole city in ruins! It
has been the work of some great storm which fired it when all were gone or dead; for there
has been no pulling down, no pillage, no aid, no attempt to stop the fire! All the palaces,
all the museums, all the stores of learning and art, the streets, the crowded houses; they
are gone, Ellen--they are all gone!"

His wife had never before in all their misery seen him so deeply moved--so nearly overpowered
by any thing that had occurred. His excitement communicated itself to her, and she caught the
full bearing of his narration. She felt for the long ages of story, and the monuments of human
skill, buried in the great city. Irretrievable ruin! The work which men, and years, and glowing
knowledge, had slowly raised up, all dead, all annihilated so suddenly. They sat talking of
it very long before Ellen said,

"And what must we do now, Paulett?"

"We must go on, Ellen; we must travel further. The rest we hoped for is destroyed with the
city, and we must press forward if we are to save our lives."

"That seems less and less possible," said Ellen; "and in all this destruction why should we
be preserved?"

"Perhaps because we have as yet avoided the stroke, by using all our human skill; perhaps because
a new race is to spring from us, who shall reign in another mighty London! Alas, London!--alas,
the great city!"

Several times during the night Ellen heard Paulett murmur to himself words of lament over the
fallen city; and when he slept, his rest was agitated, and his frame seemed trembling under
the emotions of the day.

It was resolved that Ellen should rest a little while in their present habitation, before undertaking
the toils of further travel. They intended to make for the coast, sure of a dry channel to
the opposite shore, and hoping to reach some of the great continental towns before their store
of diamonds should be utterly exhausted. In the meantime, Paulett was bent upon taking his
boy through the ruins of London, and impressing upon him the memory of the place, and its great
events. So the next day, leaving Ellen and the little Alice together, he and Charles began
their pilgrimage through the mighty ruins. The event must have occurred very many months ago,
for the ruins were perfectly cold, and the winds had toppled down the walls of all the more
fragile buildings; so that the streets lay in confusion over one another, and it was impossible,
except by other marks, to recognise the localities. Paulett and Charles clambered over the
fallen walls, and would have been bewildered among heaps of masonry, and houses shaken from
their base and blackened by fire--only that over the desolate prospect they saw, and Paulett
marked the bearings of St Paul's, the chief part of whose dome rose high in the air, though
a huge rent let the daylight through it, and threatened a speedy fall. There was here and there
a spire, rising perfect over the ruins; there were remains of Whitehall, strong though blackened,
seen over a long view of prostrate streets; and in the distance beyond, fragments of Westminster
Abbey showed themselves in the sunlight, though defaced and crumbled, as if the frame had been
too ancient to resist the fire. Guided by these landmarks, Paulett traced out the plan of the
city, and by degrees recognised where the great streets had run, where the palaces had stood,
where the river had flowed. And all was silent, all an absolute stillness, where there had
been such ceaseless voices, and sounds of life; the libraries were burned, the statues calcined,
the museums in ashes; the mind of man, which triumphs over the body, had here been subdued
by matter, and left no trace of itself.

"Oh! London, London! So much talent, so much glory and beauty; such mighty hearts, such mighty
works; such ages of story--all buried in one black mass! Piteous spectacle!" cried Paulett,
striking his breast, and stretching forth his arms over the skeleton of what was once a sovereign
in the world.

He took his son by the hand, and led him over the confused masses, telling him as they went
along what were the ruins by which they passed.

"This great heap of building which has fallen into a square, must be the palace of our kings.
It is that St James's, where they dwelt till nobler buildings rose with the improving times.
See here, Charles--there is less ruin here. This opener space was park and garden; and time
has been that I have heard the buzz of men filling all this place, when the sovereigns came
to hold their courts in that building. I think that this dreadful fire must have taken place
before life was quite extinct; for see, there are heaps of bones here, as though men had fled
together to avoid it; and it either overtook them with long tongues of fire, such as a burning
city would send forth, or smothered them before they could escape, with its smoke. Ha! I see
almost a palace there--a wonder of modern art. It is the house I once saw, and only once, for
it was built during the years of the great drought."

"Who could build in those days, father?" said Charles; "I thought no one had any heart for
doing more than we do, and that is but just keeping ourselves alive."

"Nay, it was very long before the persuasion came that those were the last days. We all believed
that rain would come again and restore the earth to its old order, and whoever possessed the
means, builded and projected still. You may see this magnificent place suffered violence before
the fire; for its ornaments are torn from the walls, and its statues mutilated by other means
than the bare fall. It was the property of a man called Jephcot, who, when the water began
to fail, contrived means to bring it into London from great distances, and thus to secure a
supply when the ordinary means were useless. He kept his contrivance secret, and supplied the
city when other men's resources were exhausted; and he grew exceedingly rich by this exercise
of his ingenuity, and built himself the palace which you see there. But when the failure of
water amounted to absolute famine, the rich people naturally were the last who wanted; they
gave his price, and he supplied them before he would supply others who had no money to bring.
This was endured with murmurs, which might have gone on a little longer, had not Jephcot, in
the midst of this distress, given a banquet to the great people of London.

"It was in the second year of the drought, when little thinking what the end was to be, we
all continued to live, as far as possible, as we had done before. I was in London where the
parliament was then sitting, and among others I was invited to this house, and still remember
the scene of luxury and profusion of these bare rooms. In the midst of the noise of a crowded
assembly, some of us heard sounds outside, which were such as you will never hear, even if
you live--sounds of the feet and voices of thousands of human beings. Among this tumult, we
began to distinguish individual voices, chiefly those of women, crying out, "water!" We paid
little attention, and those who did, said the police and soldiers were called out and would
prevent violence; but before long it was whispered that these forces, pressed by extreme want,
and seeing their families perishing, had joined the mob, and were exciting violence. There
fell a silence over all the assembly; every one left the tables, and gathered together to hear
and to consult: and while we did so, there came an assault on the front of the house, and the
voices of the populace all broke out at once into shouting. They were irresistible; they forced
their way in, and came pouring up the staircase; they uttered cries of vengeance for imaginary
wrongs, saying that the waters of London had been kept for the rich, and that there was abundance
for both rich and poor, and threatened the lives of Jephcot and his family, even more eagerly
than they demanded water. He tried to address them, but they caught him down from the head
of the staircase where he stood, and flung him at once over the marble banisters. This was
the signal for attack on all sides. We rushed forward to rescue his body and revenge him, they
to possess themselves of the treasure they so much coveted. Of course we were overpowered,
for we were one to fifty; and that night there fell a hundred of the nobles of England. The
women were respected by the mob, and except one lady who was shot accidentally, and another
who saw her son fall, and stood over him till he ceased to breathe, then fell wounded and dying
herself, all escaped. Your mother was not there. When our party was quite vanquished, I found
myself in the midst of the mob, bleeding to death as I thought; but they flung me on one side,
and I recovered. They pulled the house to the ground, after they had satiated themselves with
drinking. And that was the first great calamity which overthrew the government of the country."

"And how did that come about, father?" said Charles, eagerly holding him by the hand, and sharing
his excitement.

Paulett led him on, telling him, at one ruined monument after another, what steps had been
taken at each, in the destruction of the order of things. They came to the dry channel of the
Thames, a deep and wide trench, whose bottom showed objects that had lain there when the waters
flowed above, and which would once have been as precious as now they were unregarded. Here
as a bridge from side to side; and a little way above, stood part of the walls of a noble building,
partly black with smoke, partly white with the polish and beauty of stones newly built together.

"These are the Houses of Parliament," said Paulett, "the work of many years, which were to
replace those burned in 1834. See how beautiful they were, what excellent design, what exquisite
finish; how strong and stable, to last for a thousand ages, and to crown the river which then
flowed in this dusty channel. When matters were come almost to the worst, and there were convulsions
all over the country in consequence of the famine, the queen, for the first time, came to these
houses to open the last parliament that ever assembled. There were no beasts of burthen left
alive in the country; it had been found impossible to appropriate water enough to those which
had been reserved in the royal stables; and the queen, surrounded by a certain number of the
court, walked along yonder street to the House. The sight of so young a woman, and so great
a sovereign, thus leveled by physical necessity with the meanest, excited some of the old enthusiasm
with which she used to be greeted: the populace themselves, with their squalid faces, and in
their extreme misery, greeted her; but the greatest feeling was aroused among the nobles and
gentry who surrounded her, and who seemed to make a point of offering more homage, the less
outer circumstances commanded it. There was assembled in the House all that remained alive
of the nobles of England, and the sovereign; and they proposed to deliberate upon the possibility
of any means remaining to provide water. But a demagogue of the people, Matthison by name,
roused their fury and their madness, and they burst in, accusing their superiors of their calamities.
The queen's life was in danger;--and then occurred a gallant action, which is worthy to live
if man lives. A Churchill, a descendant of that Marlborough who fought Blenheim, came to the
hall whither they had broken in, and required in the queen's name to know what they wanted.
He meant to gain time; for other nobles had effected an exit at a private door for her, and
were hurrying her away to a place of security, till she could escape from England. They answered
Churchill, that water was monopolized; that Matthison must be minister; that they must speak
to the queen face to face, and have her hostage for the accomplishment of what they wished.
Churchill pretended to deliberate for an instant with some one in the adjoining chamber; and
then returning, said, 'If the queen do not speak with you in ten minutes, you may tear me in
pieces.' Some of the mob cried that he was saying this to give her time to escape. Others said,
if it were so, he should assuredly suffer the penalty. Churchill answered nothing, only smiled;
and then the majority said he could not be so foolhardy, and they would grant the queen ten
minutes.

"The time passed, and Matthison eagerly cried, 'The time is gone, yet we don't see the queen.'

"'Then tear me in pieces,' said Churchill; and the mob, finding their prey had escaped, did
so indeed; the gallant man falling where he stood, and not another word came from his lips."

"The brave man!" cried Charles; "the good man! Were there many such brave, good men in the
old world, father?"

"Ay, that there were," said Paulett; "many a glorious one; some known and some unknown, who
did things which made one know one's-self a glorious, an immortal creature. See there that
ruined abbey--there lie the ashes of brave and good; these are their crumbled monuments--'that
fane where fame is A spectral resident!' Alas, there is no fame, no name left!"

Paulett and Charles went down among the ruins of the abbey, and there, amidst the fallen stones
and broken aisles, saw monumental marbles, old known names, and funeral inscriptions, contrasting
strongly by their quiet character with the confusion around.

"Never forget them, Charles," said Paulett. "These are names which the world has trembled at,
and which are now like to be such as those before the Flood, barbarous to those who are building
up a new order of things, and known merely as a barren catalogue of names. Yet, if you live,
remember Edward the king here; remember the Black Prince; remember the days and heroes of Elizabeth;
remember the poetry and the romance of the old world."

"Ay, father, and I'll remember the great name of him who taught you to print, and of Wicliffe
the reformer, and of the man who gave you the steam-engine."

Paulett smiled and sighed; he felt that his own ideas of things heroic were as much contrasted
with those of Charles, as their notions of the beautiful. But he thought not to stem the stream.

"See here," he said, pointing to some new monuments, which, like the old, were cracked by fire;
"there were many brave and good actions done, and one of those who did best was laid here.
He was a clergyman, his name Host, and during the pestilence which came on in the fourth year,
he was more like an inspired messenger of good than any mortal creature. You must know, Charles,
that the teachers of religion at this time were greatly divided among themselves, and they
had led a great portion of the lay world into their disputes. One party, in an age of reasoning,
and when nothing in science was taken upon trust, gave up their reason altogether, and followed
authority as blindly as they could--still, however, feeling the influence of the age; for they
would argue upon the existence or non-existence of authority, and would fit it unconsciously
each man to his own conceit. Indeed, superstition was the disease of the age, and while the
healthy part of the community employed and enjoyed the freest use of their reason, this same
infirmity appeared among other people in other forms; so that some men took up the notion that
the human mind might act independently of sense, and see without eyes, and know intuitively
what existed at a distance. Other parties, among professors of religion, allowed nothing in
religion that they allowed daily in the evidence of other matters. They gave no weight to research,
and thought, about religious facts; and dreamed that each one among themselves gained a kind
of spiritual knowledge by inspiration. It was a time of conceits and quackery; but there was
a better spirit abroad, of which this good man Host was the representative. He began in the
pestilence, and went to all houses indifferently, whether they were princes or peasants; and
there was a common-sense in what he did and said, a universal character in his religion, which
struck men in these evil days. They drew nearer to each other under his influence; and I recollect
this great building thronged in one of the last months that men continued here, with a congregation
of all orders and all divisions of opinion, who met to pray together, and listen to Host. He
stood yonder, Charles, as nearly there, I think, as I can tell from the ruins; he was rapt
by his own discourse, and his face was as the face of an angel. And truly three days after,
he was dead; and here they buried him--the last sound of the organ, the last service of this
church, being for him. Here is his name still on the tombstone--

         'Host.
    Pio. dilecto. beato.
    Populus miserrimus.'"

Charles's memory was deeply impressed with this history, and he followed his father, much engrossed
and animated by what he had heard. Not so Paulett; for the ruins of London occupied his mind,
and filled him with deep pity and regret for the fair world destroyed: and so they returned
to their temporary habitation, the father sorrowful, the son exulting; one full of the old
world, one dreaming great actions for the new.

After another day's rest, the sole surviving family of mankind set forth again on their pilgrimage.
Paulett again carried his Alice, and Ellen and Charles walked hand in hand with such a basket
of necessaries as they could support. Paulett secured about his person a large packet of diamonds,
collected in palaces and noble dwellings near London, and the apparatus he required for transmuting
them into water; and searching for and finding the remains of the railroad to the coast, at
Dover, they kept on in that track, which, from its evenness, offered facility to their journey.
But in several places it had been purposely broken up, during the commotions which preceded
the final triumph of the drought, and the tunnel near Folkestone had fallen in the middle from
want of the necessary attention to the masonry. These difficulties seemed harder to bear than
those which they had met with in the beginning of their pilgrimage, when their hopes of reaching
a certain bourne were more secure. The destruction of London had thrown a deep gloom over all
their expectations; and besides that help was removed to a much greater distance, they could
not but feel it very probable that a similar fate might have befallen the other places they
looked to. Nevertheless, none of them murmured. They went steadfastly though sadly on; and
the two children, with less knowledge of what was to be feared, were encouraged by their parents
whenever they broke into a merrier strain. Alice was the happiest of the party, for she knew
least. She was the one who suffered least also; for every one spared her suffering, and contrived
that what remained on earth of luxury should be hers. She had the first draught of water; she
was carried on her father's shoulder; she ran to find pebbles, and whatever shone and glittered
on their path; and when the others were silent, they heard with joy her infant voice singing,
without words like a bird, in a covered tone, as they got wearily over mile by mile of their
way. Ellen suffered most, though Paulett tried, by all means that remained, to lighten her
fatigue and cheer her spirit. She bore up steadfastly; but her frame was slight, and her feelings
were oppressed by the fearful aspect of things around her. They made a deep and deeper impression,
and she was fain to look steadfastly on the faces of the few living, to recover from the effects
of such universal death.

Paulett himself was shaken more than he knew, though he was as energetic as ever; but Charles
was vigorous and advanced beyond his years, and took more than his share in aiding and in comforting.
They came at last to what had been sea-coast, and to that part of the road which ran along
the face of the cliff overlooking the sea; and here they paused, and gazed upon the wild and
strange view before them. Where the sea had stretched all glorious in motion, expanse, and
colour, there was now a deep valley, the bottom of which was rough with rocks, black for the
most part, but in places glittering with the white salt from which the water had evaporated,
and which the winds had rolled together. Further out from the coast, where the sea had been
deepest, there seemed tracks of sand; and far away over this newly exposed desert, rose other
hills, clearly seen through the unclouded atmosphere, and which they knew to be the rocks of
France. And if they should arrive there, what was the hope they offered? Scarce any. Nothing
but more pilgrimage, further wandering. Paulett and Ellen sat apart, while the children lay
sleeping side by side, for an hour or two, at this point of their journey, and talked over
the desolation before them.

"Yet," said Paulett, "the more terrible is the appearance which material things put on, the
greater I feel the triumph of the spirit to be. The worse it looks, the more immortal I feel;
and when a perishing world shows itself most perishable, I exult most that you and I, Ellen,
have borne it so far."

"Yes, I am glad too," said Ellen; "your strength strengthens me. In the midst of this desolation
the mind rises, for an hour at least, higher perhaps than it would have ever done if we had
been prosperous."

"Yet we might have used our prosperity to the same good end," said Paulett. "It is not necessary
to be miserable in order to be noble. Millions have died before us, some in agony, some before
the struggle began; some hardly, some at ease: they had all their chances; all had their occasions
of virtue, if they used them; and some used them, some failed: ours is not over yet; we have
to struggle on still; and let us do it, dear Ellen, and be ready for the good day when we too
may be allowed to die." And thus talking for a while, they rested themselves in sight of the
desert they had to traverse; then with renewed strength and steadfast resolution, when the
children woke, descended the cliffs, and prepared to trace out a path through what had been
the bottom of the sea. The first part of the journey was infinitely difficult: the rocks over
which foot of man had never passed; the abrupt precipices over which had flowed the even surface
of the ocean, and then the height to climb again, again to find themselves on ledges and shelves
of rocks--all these seemed at times hardly passable impediments. And when they got to a distance
from what had been the shore, the unnatural place where they found themselves pressed upon
the imagination. There was a plain of sand, about which at irregular distances rose rocks,
which, north and south, stretched out beyond the reach of the eye; and this sand, which had
been at such a depth that it never felt the influence of the waves, was covered in places with
shells, the inhabitants of which had perished when the waters gradually dried away. There lay
mixed with these some skeletons of fishes; here a huge heap, and there small bones which looked
less terrible; and masses of sea-weed, dried and colourless, under which, as it seemed, the
creeping things of the ocean had sheltered for a while, and some had crawled to the surface
when about to perish. But it was not only the brute creation which had died here: there was
in the middle a pile of rocks, on one side of which they came suddenly to a pit, so deep and
dark that they perceived no bottom; and here probably there had been seawater longer than elsewhere,
for there were human bones about it, and skulls of men, and human garbs, which the sun had
faded, but which were not disturbed by waves. There was a cord and a metal jar attached to
it, for lowering into the pit; but Paulett, as he looked at the attitudes of the remaining
skeletons, and observed how they seemed distorted in death, fancied that they must have brought
up either poisoned water, or waters so intensely salt as to drive them mad with the additional
thirst; and that some had died on the instant, some had lingered, some had sought to succour
others, and yielded sooner or later to the same influence. Ellen and he would not dwell on
the sight after the first contemplation of it; they passed on, shuddering, and made toward
the great wall of rock which they saw rising to the south, and which must be their way to the
land of France. But before they reached it the sun began to decline, and without light it was
in vain to attempt to seek a path. There was a wind keener than they had felt of late, which
came from the west, and the little Alice pressed on her father's bosom to shield her from it.
He wrapped her closer in a cloak, and they resolved to put themselves under the shelter of
the first rock they reached, and pass the night in the channel of the sea. They pressed on,
and found at last the place they sought; a cliff which must once have raised its head above
the waves, and which now stood like some vast palace wall, bare and huge, upon the ocean sand.
Screened from the wind, they collected an abundance of the dried vegetation of the sea, partly
for warmth and to roast their corn, partly for Paulett to dissolve some of the diamonds into
water; and here they rested, here they slept, many fathoms below that level over which navies
used to sail. At times during the night Paulett fancied, when the wind abated, that he heard
a sound like thunder, or like what used to be the rushing of a distant torrent; and occasionally
he thought he felt a vibration in the earth as if it were shaken by some moving body. The region
he was in was so strange that he knew not what might be here, or what about to happen; the
sounds so imperfect that he tormented himself to be sure of them, or to be sure they were not;
and when the time for action came he was beginning to disbelieve them altogether; but Alice
brought all back again by saying, "My rock" (for her cradle was a rock) "shook my head, father."
The child could explain herself no further; but the vibration he had fancied seemed to be what
she had felt. And now they climbed again, and again descended weary rock after rock; it was
a strange chaos, which the tides had swept and moulded, and which had in places risen to the
surface, and caused the wreck of many a vessel. Fragments of these lay under the rocks they
had split upon, but the wandering family had no thoughts for them; wonder and pity had been
exhausted among exciting and terrific scenes. They thought only of forcing their way over the
rocks, and feared to think how much of this they had to traverse before they should come to
what had been the shore, and to towns.

Suddenly, as they toiled forward, Paulett said in a low voice to Ellen, "Don't you hear it?"

"I have heard it a long time," said Ellen in the same tone; and Charles stopping as well as
they, said, "Father, what is that?"

"I can't tell, my boy," said Paulett, listening.

"Water?" asked Ellen.

Paulett shook his head, yet they all pressed forward, and there grew a thundering sullen sound.
There was a valley and a ridge of rock before them, and they had to clamber first down the
rugged precipice they were upon, then to cross the valley, and then to struggle up the opposite
side, a trembling motion growing perceptible as they advanced, before they stood on a sort
of broad ledge, which they perceived at the angles that jutted out, went down straight into
a depth, and opposite which was another broad table-land of rock, between which and that they
were upon was a rent, wider and narrower in various parts, and running along as far as they
could see to right and left. Paulett rushed on to the brink, and stood looking. He put his
hand out to keep Ellen back when he heard her close behind; but she also sprang to the edge,
and when she had seen turned to catch Charles in her arms. Rushing past was a torrent, but
not water. It was dark, thick, pitchy; it sent up hot steams to the edge: it was one of the
secrets of nature, laid bare when the ocean was taken away. Fire seemed to be at work below,
for occasionally it would boil with more violence, and rush on with an increased, increasing
noise, then sullenly fall back to the first gloomy sound. It bewildered the sense; and though
it could threaten no more than death, yet it was death with so many horrors around it, that
the body and mind both shrank from it. How was it possible, too, to cross it? Yet their way
lay over it; for behind was certain destruction, and before it was not yet proved impossible
that they might find the element of water. Paulett felt that it would not do to linger on the
brink; he drew his family away from the sight, and he himself went up and down to find some
narrower place, and some means by which to make a bridge over the abyss; and it was not till
their assistance could avail him that he returned for them, and brought them to the place where
he hoped to get over. It was a fearful point, for in order to reach a space narrow enough to
have a chance of throwing a plank over, it was necessary to go down the broken side of the
precipice some twenty feet, and there, high above the seething lava, to cross on such a piece
of wood as could be got to span the abyss, and then clamber up the rugged opposite side. Paulett
had been down to the point he selected, and had got timber, which a wrecked vessel had supplied,
to the edge, so that Ellen and Charles might push a plank down to him, and he might try, at
least, to cast it to the opposite bank. His head was steady, his hand strong; no one of them
spoke a word while he stood below, steadying himself to receive the plank. Ellen's weak arm
grew powerful; her wit was ready with expedients, to aid him in this necessity. Her frame and
spirit were strung to the very uttermost, and she was brave and silent, doing all that could
be done. No word was spoken till Paulett said, "I have done it;" and Ellen and Charles had
seen him place the plank, and secure it on his own side of the abyss with stones. Then they
held their breath, beholding him cross it; but his firm foot carried him safely, and he heaped
stones on the other side also. He came over again, sprang up the side, and now smiled and spoke.

"After all it is but a mountain torrent, Ellen," he said, "and the water would have destroyed
us like yonder seething flood; yet we have crossed many a one and feared nothing. Now Charles
shall go over; then Alice, and he shall take care of her; and then my Ellen. The ground beyond
is better; we shall get on well after this."

Ellen took the girl in her arms, and stood, not trembling, not weeping; seeing and feeling
every motion; all was safe that time again, Charles was on the opposite bank, and his father
waved his hand to Ellen. He came back for Alice, whom her mother tied on his shoulders, for
hands as well as feet were wanted to scramble down and up the banks. And now Ellen followed
to the brink, and forgot, in watching her husband and child pass over, that the black torrent
was seething beneath her eyes. When they were quite safe, she felt again that it was there,
and that her eyes were growing dizzy, and her hands involuntarily grasping about for support.
She did not take time to feel more, but sprang upon the plank, and over it, and found Paulett's
hand seizing hers, and drawing her up the opposite bank.

And once there, with all the three round her, she burst into tears--tears which had not overcome
her through many miseries--and embracing them alternately, blessed them that they were all
so far safe. Paulett suffered this emotion to spend itself before he said that he must cross
the plank again. To be more at liberty to assist them, he had left the diamonds on the other
side, till they should be over. Ellen offered no remonstrance. The times had so schooled them
all, that selfish or unreasonable thoughts either did not come at all, or were suppressed at
once; and she did not oppose, even with a word, this necessary step. But the renewal of fear,
after the excited energy had subsided, did her more harm than all that had gone before; and
she stood on the brink exhausted, yet palpitating again, while Paulett made the passage. He
himself was wearied; but he had reached the plank, and was upon it on his way back to safety,
when one of those ebullitions which stirred the dark fluid began roaring down the cleft rock,
and with stunning noise sent up dark and clouding vapour. Paulett seemed suffocating--he could
not be heard--he could but just be seen--he reeled! Has he fallen? Oh, he has fallen! No--no!
he has got his footing again; he forces himself up the bank; he is safe--but the diamonds are
in the bottom of the pit.

CHAPTER VI.

The exhausted family toiled with difficulty over the remaining passage to what had been the
mainland, and reached a village on the former coast, under a roof of which they entered, and
lay down on the floor of the first room they came to. Their supply of water was almost out;
the materials for producing more were gone; and there seemed little chance of finding any in
the neighbourhood. "Death was here;" and yet the exhaustion of their frames led them to sleep
before they died, and to seek and enjoy a taste of that oblivion which was soon to fall upon
them with an impenetrable shroud. All but Ellen were soon asleep; but she, the most wearied
of all, could not close her eyes and admit rest to her overwrought frame. There was a burning
thirst in her throat, which the small portion of water she and the rest had shared--being all
that remained for them--had failed to slake. She had not complained of it; but she rejoiced
when she heard them asleep, that she could rise and move restlessly about. The night was hot,
and yet the west wind continued to blow strongly; the moon shone, but scarcely with so bright
a light as usual--there was a film upon it, or perhaps, Ellen thought, it was the dimness of
her own weary eyes. She came softly up to Paulett, and watched his frame, half naked in the
unconsciousness of sleep, and upon which none of the ravages of want and exertion were now
concealed. The flesh was wasted; the strong chest showed the bones of the skeleton; the arms
which had so strained their powers were thin, and lay in an attitude of extreme exhaustion.
His sleep was deep; his lips open; his eyelids blue; he would wake in want; and soon he would
be able to sleep no more, till the last sleep of all came in torment and anguish. Poor Charles
lay by him, his head on his father's body for a pillow, his limbs drawn somewhat together,
his clusters of brown hair parted off his pale thin cheek; and Alice, the darling Alice, with
more colour in her face than any of them, slept in deep repose, destined, perhaps, to live
last, and to call in vain on those whose cares had hitherto kept her healthier and happier
than themselves. The mother groaned with anguish; she measured what these were about to suffer,
by all she began to suffer herself; and the sight of them seemed to sear the burning eyes which
could no longer weep. She sat down on the floor by Alice; her head fell against the wall; she
caught at a little rosary which hung near her, and pressed it in her mouth, the comparative
coolness of the beads giving her a little ease; her face fell on her bosom.

When Paulett woke out of his deep sleep, and as soon as he stirred, the little Alice came on
tiptoe across the floor to him, and said, "Hush, father! my mother is asleep at last."

"At last, my Alice! What! Could not she sleep?"

"I think she could not sleep. I woke up, and there was my mother; and Charles woke presently,
and she said Charles should go out and try to bring back some cold stones in a cup, and then
presently she sat down again, and went to sleep."

He rose softly, and taking the little girl by the hand, came up to Ellen's side, and looked
upon her. She was lying at full length on the floor; her head was toward him, but her face
was turned upon the ground, and her hair further hid it; her right arm was fallen forward,
and the back of that hand lay in the palm of the other. He did not hear nor see her breathe.
"Is it so, my Ellen?" he said. "Art thou at rest? Is there no farewell for me?" He kneeled
and stooped lower and lower. His lip did not venture to feel hers; he longed that she might
be free, yet shrank from knowing that she was gone. But no; she had not ceased to suffer; a
low sigh came at last, and her parched mouth opened.

"Water!" she said; then lifted her eyes and saw Paulett, and remembered all by degrees. "Is
not there a little? Oh, no--none! Nay, I shall not want it soon!" She turned her face on Paulett's
breast, and soon after tried to rise and push herself from him. "Leave me, dear husband; kiss
me once, and leave me; try to save them!"

But Paulett folded his arms round her. "Not so, my Ellen; the chances of life are so little,
that it is lawful for me to give them up, unless we can all seek them together. Alas! all I
can do is but to see thee die! Oh, if I could give thee one minute's ease!"

"Alas! you must all die like this," said Ellen, who was perishing like one of the flowers that
had died in the drought for want of rain. Water would have saved that life, spared those sufferings.
That burning hand, those gasping lips, those anxious eyes, revealed what the spirit passing
away in that torment would fain have concealed. "Alice, come near me; hold my hand, Alice.
Are you thirsty, poor child? Oh, do not grieve your father! It will be but a short time, my
little girl--be patient." Ellen tried to kiss her; her husband kneeled and raised her head
on his shoulder, bending his face on her forehead, and murmuring the last farewell--the last
thanks--the agony of his pity for her suffering. The poor child threw herself on her mother,
gazing upward in want, and grief, and bewilderment, in her face. "My Charles," said the mother,
feeling about with the other hand, but she did not find his head to bless it. "My Charles,"
she repeated in a fainter tone, and her eyelids drooped over the hot eyes.

Paulett saw nothing but his suffering wife, heard nothing except her painful breath. At that
moment the door opened, and Charles stood there, paler than ever, with glittering eyes. He
held the cup towards his father. "Father," he said, "there is water coming down from heaven!"

Paulett looked up and cried, "O God, it rains!"

A TENDER CONSCIENCE.

I have a story to tell you, my dear Eusebius, of a tender conscience. It will please you; for
you delight to extract good out of evil, and find something ever to say in favour of the "poor
wretches of this world's coinage," as you call them; thus gently throwing half their errors,
and scattering them among a pretty large society to be responsible for them; provided only
they be wretches by confession, that dare not hide themselves in hypocrisy. In all such cases
you show that you were born with the genius of a beadle, and (strange conjunction) the tenderest
of hearts. I believe that you would stand an hour at a pillory, and see full justice done to
a delinquent of that caste; and would as willingly, in your own person, receive the missiles
that you would attempt to ward off from the contrite wretch, whose sins might not have been
woefully against human kindness. Could you choose your seat in the eternal mansions, it would
be among the angels that rejoice over one sinner that repenteth. You can distinguish in another
the feeblest light of conscience that ever dimly burned, and see in it the germ of a beautiful
light, that may one day, by a little fanning and fostering, shine as a star, and shed a vital
heat that may set the machinery of the heart in motion to throw off glorious actions. But let
not the man that shams a conscience come in your way. I have seen you play off such an one
till he has burst forth--up, up, up, aiming at the skies, nothing less, in his self-glorification;
and how have you despised him, and exhibited him to all bystanders as nothing but a poor stick
in his descent! These human rockets are at their best but falling stars--cinders incapable
of being rekindled. Commend me to the modest glow-worms, that shine only when they think the
gazing world is asleep, and dwell in green hedges, and fancy themselves invisible to all eyes
but those of love.

There are persons, and of grave judgments too, who verily believe that the quantity of conscience
amongst mankind is not worth speaking of, and treat of human actions as entirely independent
of it. You, Eusebius, will be perfectly of Montaigne's opinion. We would rather trust that
there are few in whom this moral principle has no vitality whatever. The wayside beggar, when
he divides his meal--which, perhaps, he has stolen--with his dog, acts from its kind impulse;
and see how uncharitable I am at my first impulse, to suppose, to suggest that the meal is
stolen--so ready are we to steal away virtues, one after the other, and in our judgments to
be thieves upon a large scale. And so a better feeling pricks me to charity. I doubt if we
ought even to say that the parliamentary reprobate, who openly confessed "that he could not
afford to keep a conscience," had none--he was but dead to some of its motions. If it were
not that it must be something annexed to an immortal condition, would you not, Eusebius, say
that the beggar's dog conscientiously makes his return of service and gratitude for the scraps
thrown to him? See him by the gipsies' tent: how safely can the infant children be left to
his sole care by the roadside! It is a beautiful sight to see the sagacious, the faithful creature,
watching while they sleep, and lying upon the outer fold of the blanket that enwraps them.
Has he not a sense of duty--a sort of bastard conscience? And what is truly wonderful, is,
that animals have often a sense of duty against their instincts. If it be said that they act
through fear of punishment, it is a punishment their instincts would teach them to avoid; and,
after all, this fear of punishment may be a mighty ingredient in most men's consciences. We
learn that immense numbers of ducks are reared by that part of the Chinese population who spend
their lives in boats upon the rivers; and these birds, salted and dried, form one of the chief
articles of diet in the celestial land. They are kept in large cages or crates, from which,
in the morning, they are sent forth to seek their food upon the river banks. A whistle from
their keeper brings them back in the evening; and as, according to Tradescent Lay, the last
to return receives a flogging for his tardiness, their hurry to get back to the boats, when
they hear the accustomed call, is in no small degree amusing. I cannot but think that there
must be something like a sense of duty in these poor creatures, that they thus of themselves,
and of good-will return to the certainty of being salted and dried. This may sound very ridiculous,
Eusebius, but there is matter in it to muse upon; and if we want to know man, we must speculate
a little beyond him, and learn him by similities and differences. He has best knowledge of
his own home and country who has wandered into a terra incognita, and studied the differences
of soil and climate. And besides that every man is a world to himself, and may find a terra
incognita in his own breast, it is not amiss to look abroad into other wildernesses, where
he will find instincts that are not so much any creature's but that they have something divine
in them, and so, in their origin at least, akin to his own. He will find conscience of some
sort growing in the soil of every heart. It is not amiss to discover where it grows most healthily,
and by what deadly nightshade its virtue may be suffocated, and its nicer sense not thrive.

Surprising is the diversity;--were not nature corrupted, there would be no diversity. Now,
truth and right is one; and yet we judge not one thing, we think not aright. Yet is the original
impulse true to its purpose, but, in its passage through the many channels of the mind, is
strangely perverted. If it were only the painting pictures! but we act the painted scenes.
And strange they are, and of diversity enough. It was the confession of an apostle, that he
"thought with himself that he ought to do many things contrary" to his master. There are national
consciences how unlike each other; there are consciences of tribes and guilds, which, strange
to say, though they be composed of individuals, bear not the stamp of any one individual conscience
among them. They apologise to themselves for iniquity by a division and subdivision of the
responsibility; and thus, by each owning to but a little share collectively, they commit a
great enormity. It is the whole and sole responsibility of the individual, responsibility to
that inner arbiter sitting foro conscientiæ, and the sight of those frowning attendants of
the court, Nemesis and Adraste, ready with the scourge to follow crime, that keep the man honest.
Put not confidence, Eusebius, in bodies, in guilds, and committees. Trust not to them property
or person; they may be all individually good Samaritans, but collectively they will rather
change places with the thieves than bind up your wounds. In this matter, "Experto crede Roberto."

But of this diversity.--The Turk will split his sides with laughter, against the very nature,
too, of his Turkish gravity, should he witness the remorse of the subdued polygamist. We read
of nations who, from a sense of duty, eat their parents, and would shudder at the crime of
burying them in the earth, or burning them. So is there a cannibalism of love as well as of
hatred. Sinbad's terror at the duty of being buried alive with his deceased wife, the king's
daughter, was no invention beyond the probability of custom. The Scythians, as Herodotus tells
us, thought it an honourable act and no murders committed, when they slaughtered the king's
councillors and officers of state, and guards and their horses, on which they stuck them upright
by skewers, to be in death the king's attendants. The suttee is still thought no wrong. There
is habit of thought that justifies habit of deed. Southey, in his History of the Brazils, tells
a sad tale of a dying converted Indian. In her dying moments, cannibalism prevailed over Christian
conscience; and was the Pagan conscience silent? She was asked by those standing about her,
if they could do any thing for her. She replied, that she thought she could pick the bones
of a little child's hand, but that she had no one now who would go and kill her one. I dare
to say, Eusebius, she died in peace. The greater part of the world die in peace. Their conscience
may be the first part of then that departs--it is dead before the man--most say, I have done
no harm. I have known a man die in the very effort of triumphant chuckling over his unfortunate
neighbours, by his successful fraud and over-reaching; yet, perhaps, this man's conscience
was only dead as to any sense of right and wrong in this particular line; very possibly he
had "compunctious visitings" about "mint and cumine"--and oh! human inconsistency, some such
have been known to found hospitals--some spark of conscience working its way into the very
rottenness of their hearts, that, like tinder, have let out all their kindred and latent fire,
till that moment invisible, all but in posse non-existent. But for any thing like a public
conscience so kindling since the repentance of the Ninevites, it is not to be thought of. The
pretence of such a thing is a sign of the last state of national hypocrisy. It was not that
sense which emancipated the Negroes and forbade the slave trade. Take, for example, the Portuguese,
and their "board of conscience" at Lisbon, which they set up to quiet the remorse, if any should
exist, of those who had bought the miserable natives of Reoxcave, when they sold themselves
and their children for food. This very convenient scruple was started in "the court, to sanction
the purchase, that if these so purchased slaves were set free, they might apostatize!" Now,
who were the judges in such a court?

We are told that there is such a disease as a cannibal madness, and that it was common among
the North American savages; that those seized with it have a raving desire for human flesh,
and rush like wolves upon all they meet. Now, in what was this court of conscience better than
these cannibals? Better! a thousand times worse--for wolves are honest. Now I well know, Eusebius,
how I have put a coal under the very fountain of your blood--and it is boiling at a fine rate.
Let me allay it, and follow the stage directions of "soft music;" only on this occasion we
omit the music, and take the rhyme. So here do I exhibit conscience in its playful vein. Our
friend S., the other day, repeated me off the following lines; he cannot remember where he
had them--he says it was when a boy that he met with them somewhere. Call it the Conscientious
Toper; yet that is too common--it is the characteristic of all topers--never was one that could
not find an excuse. Drink wonderfully elicits moral words, to compound for immoral deeds. Call
it then--

THE CONTROVERSY.

    No plate had John and Joan to hoard--
      Plain folks in humble plight--
    One only tankard graced their board,
      But that was fill'd each night;

    Upon whose inner bottom, sketch'd
      In pride of chubby grace,
    Some rude engraver's hand had etch'd
      A baby angel's face.

    John took at first a moderate sup--
      But Joan was not like John--
    For when her lips once touch'd the cup,
      She swill'd till all was gone.

    John often urged her to drink fair,
      But she cared not a jot--
    She loved to see that angel there,
      And therefore drain'd the pot.

    When John found all remonstrance vain,
      Another card he play'd,
    And where the angel stood so plain
      He had a devil portray'd.

    Joan saw the horns, Joan saw the tail,
      Yet still she stoutly quaff'd,
    And when her lips once touch'd the ale,
      She clear'd it at a draught.

    John stood with wonder petrified,
      His hair stood on his pate,
    "And why dost guzzle now," he cried,
      "At that enormous rate?"

    "Oh, John!" she said, "I'm not to blame--
      I can't in conscience stop--
    For sure 'twould be a burning shame
      To leave the devil a drop."

Changeable, versatile, inconstant Eusebius, where is now your burst of philanthropy--where
is all your rage? Pretty havoc you would but now have made, had you been armed with thunder--thunder,
I say, for yours would have been no silent devastation among the villains. No Warnerian silent
blazeless destruction would suit your indignation--in open day, and with a shout, would you
do it, and in such wise would you suffer, if needs must, with Ajax's prayer in your mouth--"+En
de Phaei kai olesson+." But for a grand picture of a sweeping indignation, there is nothing
so grand as that fine passage in the Psalms--"Let them be as the dust before the wind, and
the angel of the Lord scattering them." Men and all their iniquities, once so mighty, so vast,
but as grains less than grains of dust--all the clouds of hypocrisy dispersed in atoms before
the fury of the storm of vengeance. You were, as you read, Eusebius, in honest rage. I could
see you as in a picture, like the figure with the scourge in hand flying off the very ground,
in Raffaelle's noble fresco, the Heliodorus; and now are you far more like a merryandrew in
your mirth, and the quaint sly humour of the tale in verse has made you blind to the delinquencies
of the quaffing Joan. Blind to their delinquencies! Stay your mirth a moment, Eusebius--are
you not blind to your own? Now I remember me, you are a thief, Eusebius, however you may have
settled that matter with your conscience. Have you read the proposed "Dog-bill?" Here's a pretty
to do!--Eusebius convicted of dog-stealing--subject to the penalty of misdemeanour! "I!" you
will say. Yes, you. You put it down, doubtless, in the catalogue of your virtues, as you did
when you boasted to me that you had, by a lucky detection in probably the criminal's first
offence, saved a fellow-creature from a course of crime. Do you remember your dog Chance? yes,
your dog, for so you called him--and, pray, how came you by him? This was your version. A regiment
was marching by your neighbourhood, at the fag-end of which a soldier led a very fine spaniel
by a piece of cord. You always loved dogs--did you not, you cunning Eusebius? You can put two
and two together as well as most people. The dog had no collar. Oh, oh! thought you--the master
of so fine a dog would have collar and chain, too, for him. This fellow must have stolen him--it
is my duty (your virtuous duty, indeed) to rescue this fine creature, and perchance save this
wretched man from such wicked courses. So thus you proceed--you look indignant, and accost
the soldier, "Holloa, you fellow--whose dog's that?" Soldier--"What's that to you?" Eusebius--"What's
the name of your captain, that I may instantly appeal to him on the subject?" Soldier alarmed--"I
beg your honour's pardon, but the dog followed me. I don't know to whom he belongs." What made
you, then, so particularly enquire where he came from, and whereabouts he met with him? Your
virtue whispered to you, "Ask these questions, that you may be able to find out the owner."
Another imp whispered, "It might be useful." So you seize the rope, lecture the man upon the
enormity of his intentions, quietly take the dog to your stable, and walk away with, as you
flatter yourself, the heartfelt satisfaction of having saved a fellow-creature from the commission
of a theft. To do you justice, you did, I verily believe, for two whole days make decent enquiries,
and endeavour, if that be not too strong a word--endeavour to find out the owner. But at the
close of every day question Rover himself; and questioning Rover led you to look into each
other's faces--and so you liked Rover's looks, and Rover liked your looks--and when you said
to Rover, I should like to know who your master is? Rover looked with all his eyes, as much
as to say, "Well now, if ever I heard the like of that! If my name is Rover, yours must be
Bouncer"--then you patted him for a true and truth-telling dog; and he wagged his tail, and
looked again at you, till you perfectly mesmerized each other, and understood each other, and
he acknowledged that you, and no other, could be his master--and so you mastered him, and he
mastered your conscience--and then you and your conscience began to have a parley. I fear you
had sent her to a bad boarding-school, and had just brought her home for the holidays, with
a pretty many more niceties and distinctions than she took with her--and had come back "more
nice than wise." "Have you found the owner?" quoth she. "It is time he were found," replied
you. "Why?" quoth she. "Because," you rejoin, "the shooting season is fast approaching." "That
is true." "The dog will be spoiled for want of practice." "That will be a pity." "Thank you,
conscience--won't it be a sin?" Conscience is silent, so you take that for granted. "Hadn't
I better take out a license this year?" "Oh! it wouldn't be right you should go without one."
"Certainly not, (somewhat boldly;) I will get my license directly. Poor Rover!--well--how very
fond that dog is of me--it would be highly ungrateful not to make a return even to a dog. I
ought to be fond of him. I--am--very fond of him." Then you confess, Eusebius, that you should
be very sorry to part with him. Conscience says, "Do you mean to say you should be sorry to
find out the real owner?" "Really, conscience," you reply, "there can be no harm in being sorry;
but you are becoming very impertinent, and asking too many questions." Here conscience nods--is
asleep--is in a coma, Eusebius--fairly mesmerized by you, and follows you at your beck wherever
you choose to lead her. And so you take her to your stable to look at Rover: and you want a
suggestion how you can stop Rover's wandering propensities; and conscience, being in a state
of clairvoyance, bids you tie him up. You ask how--"by the teeth;" so you order him a good
plate of meat inside, your stable-door locked, and you replenish that plate for a week or more,
and have a few conferences with Rover in your parlour--and the dog is tied. Then you didn't
like the name of Rover--but liked Chance. Conscience suggested the name as a palliative, as
something between true proprietorship and theft--it gave you a protective right, and took away
the sting of the possession. You fortified yourself in this position, as cunningly as the French
at Tahiti. But how happened it, Eusebius, that when any friend asked you if you had found the
owner, you turned off the subject always so ingeniously, or denied that you had a Rover, but
one Chance, certainly a fine dog?--and how came it that you never took him in the direction
of the country from whence the regiment had come? And yet, if the truth could be known, would
it not turn out, Eusebius, that fears did often come across your pleasures, and your affection
for Chance? and had a child but asked you, as you might have been crossing a stile, in quest,
with Chance before you, as you did the soldier, "whose dog's that?" you would have stammered
a little--and almost, in your affection, have gone down upon your knees to have begged him
as a gift; and it is fearful to think what a sum any knave as cunning as yourself had been,
would have got out of you. Now, my dear Eusebius, I entreat you, when you shall read or hear
read--"Is thy servant a dog, that he should do this thing," that you think of Chance, and not
of his doing, but yours. I dare to say, you have never quite looked at the affair in this light;
we all are apt to wash our hands of a troublesome affair, and think we come with them clean
into court.

Take care you don't resemble the monkey with the meal-tub. His master thrashed him when he
caught him at the theft, and showed him his hands covered with meal, that he might understand
the reason of his punishment. Monkey, after the next theft, took care to wash his hands, and
when his master came to punish him, extended them to show how clean they were. His master smiled,
and immediately brought him a looking-glass--his face and whiskers were powdered with meal:
and there you have the origin of the adage, "You have washed your hands but not your face."
There will still be a monitor, Eusebius, to hold the looking-glass to you, and the like of
you: and look to your face; and whenever you find that you have put a good face upon any doubtful
matter, take the trouble then to look at your hands; and if they be clean, look again and see
if your face and hands are clean together. And that will be the best tableau-vivant you or
any one else can study.

Now, however, that conscience seems so thoroughly gone to the dogs, without any personal allusion
to your case, Eusebius, I cannot resist telling you an anecdote by which you will see how Neighbour
Grace of M----n ingeniously touched the conscience of Attorney B., who was supposed to have
none--upon the matter of a dog-theft, and how Attorney B. was a match for Neighbour Grace.

"I am come to thee, Friend B.," said Grace, "to ask thee a question. Suppose my dog should
go into thy kitchen, and run off with a neck of mutton, dost thee think I ought to pay thee
for the neck of mutton?"

"Without doubt," said Lawyer B.

"Then I'd thank thee to pay me three and fourpence; for it was thy dog stole my neck of mutton,
and that's the cost of it."

"Perfectly right," said Attorney B., coolly drawing out a bill and receipt. "So, Neighbour
Grace, you must pay me three and fourpence, and that settles the matter."

"How so?"

"Why, as you asked my opinion, my charge for that is six and eightpence--deduct value of neck
of mutton, three and fourpence, and just so much remains." And Lawyer B. got the best of it,
and made him pay too. Now this it was to probe another's conscience, without knowing the nature
of the beast you stir up; not considering that when conscience thus comes down, as it were,
with "a power of attorney," it is powerful indeed--"recalcitrat undique tutus." There are many
such big swelling consciences, that grow up and cover the whole man--like the gourd of Jonah,
up in a night and down in a night--a fine shelter for a time from the too-searching sun; but
there is a worm in it, Eusebius, and it won't last.

It is a very odd thing that people commonly think they can have their consciences at command,
and can set them as they do their watches, and it is generally behind time: yet will they go
irregularly, and sometimes all of a run; and when they come to set them again, they will bear
no sort of regulation. Some set them as they would an alarum, to awaken them at a given time;
and when this answers at all, they are awakened in such an amazement that they know not what
they are about. Such was the case with the notorious Parisian pawnbroker, who all in a hurry
sent for the priest; but when the crucifix was presented to him, stammered out that he could
lend but a very small matter upon it. So consciences go by latitudes and longitudes--slow here
and fast there. They have, too, their antipodes--it is night here and sunshine there. And so
of ages and eras: and thus the same things make men laugh and tremble by turns. What unextinguishable
laughter would arise should Dr Howley, Archbishop of Canterbury, go in procession with his
clergy to Windsor, each armed with scissors, to clip the moustaches of the prince and his court!
Yet a like absurdity has in other days pricked the consciences of king and courtiers to a sudden
and bitter remorse. I read the other day in that very amusing volume, the Literary Conglomerate,
in an "Essay on Hair," how Anselm, archbishop of Canterbury, went so far as to pronounce an
anathema of excommunication on all who wore long hair, for which pious zeal he was much commended;
and how "Serlo, a Norman bishop, acquired great honour by a sermon which he preached before
Henry I. in 1104, against long curled hair, with which the king and his courtiers were so much
affected, that they consented to resign their flowing ringlets of which they had been so vain.
The prudent prelate gave them no time to change their minds, but immediately pulled a pair
of shears out of his sleeve, and performed the operation with his own hand." A canon is still
extant, of the date of 1096, importing that such as wore long hair should be excluded from
the church whilst living, or being prayed for when dead. Now, the very curates rejoice in ringlets
and macassar. It would be curious to trace the heresy to its complete triumph in full-bottomed
wigs, in which, it was ignorantly supposed, wisdom finally settled, when it was not discovered
elsewhere. Thus it is, Eusebius, that folly, the vile insect, flies about--just drops a few
eggs in the very nest of conscience, and is off, and a corruption of the flesh followeth. Those,
therefore, who take out license to shoot folly as it flies, should be made to look after the
eggs likewise.

Alas, Eusebius, that any thing should take the name of this nice sense that is not replete
with goodness, that is not the true ductor substantium! The prophet of an evil which wounds
his very soul will take offence if it come not to pass and spare not. Was not Jonah grieved
that the whole city was not destroyed as he had said? That nice and inner sense was more ingenious
on the side of bold justice, than prodigal to mercy; and so had he not "a conscience void of
offence;" and thus this honourable feeling not always acts unfettered, but is intercepted and
hurried on, spite of itself, into courses of action in which there is too much of passion,
and, plunging into error with this outward violence, is forced upon ingenious defences. The
story of Piso is in point. He thought to act the conscientious judge, when he condemned the
soldier to death who had returned from forage without his companion, under the impression that
he had killed him; but as he is upon the point of execution, the man supposed to have been
murdered returns, all the soldiery present rejoice, and the executioner brings them both to
the presence of Piso. And what did the conscientious Piso? His conscience would not so let
him put by justice; so, with a surprising ingenuity of that nice faculty in its delirium, he
orders execution upon all three--the first soldier, because he had been condemned--the second,
who had lost his way, because he was the cause of his companion's death--and the executioner,
because he had disobeyed his orders. He had but to pretend to be greatly grieved at his vagary,
to have the act lauded as an instance of Roman virtue. I look upon the famed Brutus, when he
thought it a matter of conscience to witness, as well as order, his sons' execution, to have
been a vain unfeeling fool or a madman. Let us have no prate about conscience proceeding from
a hard heart; these are frightful notions when they become infectious. A handful of such madmen
are enough, if allowed to have their way, to enact the horrors of a French Revolution. All
this you know, Eusebius, better than I do, and will knit your brows at this too serious vein
of thought. I will come, therefore, a little nearer our common homes. You shall have a scene
from domestic life, as I had it the other day, from a lady with whom I was conversing upon
this subject, who tells me it is a veritable fact, and took place some seventy years back.
"It will want its true power," said my friend, "because that one solitary trait could give
you no idea of the rich humour of the lady, the subject of this incident--her simplicity, shrewdness,
art, ignorance, quickness, mischief, made lovely by exceeding beauty, and a most amusing consciousness
of it. Seventy years ago, too, it happened--there are no such ladies in the better ranks of
society now. She lived at Margate. It came to pass that the topping upholsterer there got a
new-shaped chest of drawers from London--the very first that had appeared in Margate--and gave
madam, she being one of the high top-families, the first sight of it. With the article she
fell in love, and entreated her husband to buy it; but the sensible gentleman, having his house
capitally and fully furnished, would not. The lady still longed, but had not money enough to
make the purchase--begged to have her quarter advanced. This was not granted. She pouted a
little, and then, like a wise woman, made up her mind to be disappointed, and resumed her more
than wonted cheerfulness; but, alas! she was a daughter of Eve, as it will be seen. Christmas-day
came--it was the invariable custom of the family to receive the sacrament. Before church-time
she sent for her husband. She had a sin on her conscience--she must confess before she could
go to the altar. Her husband was surprised. "What is it?" "You must promise not to be very
angry." "But what is it? Have you broken my grandmother's china tea-pot?" "Oh! worse than that."
"Have you thrown a bank-note in the fire?" "Worse than that." "Have you run in debt to your
abominable smuggling lace-woman?" "Worse than that." "Woman!" quoth he sternly, and taking
down an old broadsword that hung over the chimney-piece, "confess this instant;" and he gave
the weapon a portentous flourish. "Oh! dear Richard, don't kill me, and I'll tell you all at
once. Then I, (sob,) I, (sob,) have cribbed (sob) out of the house-money every week to buy
that chest of drawers, and you've had bad dinners and suppers this month for it; and (sobbing)
that's all." He could just keep his countenance to say--"And where have you hid this accursed
thing?" "Oh, Richard! I have never been able to use it; for I have covered it over with a blanket
ever since I had it, for fear of your seeing it. Oh! pray, forgive me!" You need not be told
how she went to church with a "clean breast," as the saying is. It is an unadorned fact. Her
husband used to tell it every merry Christmas to his old friend-guests." Here you have the
story, Eusebius, as I had it thus dramatically (for I could not mend it) from the lips of the
narrator.

Is it your fault or your virtue, Eusebius, that you positively love these errors of human nature?
You ever say, you have no sympathy with or for a perfect monster--if such there be--which you
deny, and aver that if you detect not the blot, it is but too well covered; and by that very
covering, for aught you know to the contrary, may be all blot. You would have catalogued this
good lady among your "right estimable and lovely women!" and if you did not think that chest
of drawers must be an heirloom in the family, you would set about many odd means to get possession
of it. Yet I do verily believe that there are brutes that would not have forgiven in their
wives this error--that would argue thus, You may sin, madam, against your Maker; but you shall
not sin against me. Is there not a story somewhere, of a wretched vagabond at the confessional--dreadful
were the crimes for which he was promised absolution; but after all his compunctions, contortions,
self-cursings, breast-beatings, hand-wringings, out came the sin of sins--he had once spit
by accident upon the priest's robe, though he only meant to spit upon the altar steps. Unpardonable
offence! Never-to-be-forgiven wretch! His life could not atone for it. And what had the friars,
blue and grey, been daily, hourly doing? You have been in Italy, Eusebius.

I have not yet told you the story for the telling which I began this letter; and why I have
kept it back I know not--it is not for the importance of it; for it is of a poor simple creature.
But I must stay my hand from it again; for here has one passed before my window that can have
no conscience. It is a great booby--six foot man-boy of about nineteen years. He has just stalked
by with his insect-catcher on his shoulder; the fellow has been with his green net into the
innocent fields, to catch butterflies and other poor insects. Many an hour have I seen you,
Eusebius, with your head half-buried in the long blades of grass and pleasant field-weeds,
partially edged by the slanting and pervading sunbeams, while the little stream has played
its song of varied gentleness, watching the little insect world, and the golden beetles climbing
up the long stalks, performing wondrous feats for your and their own amusement--for your delight
was to participate in all their pleasures; and some would, with a familiarity that made you
feel akin to all about you, walk over the page of the book you were reading, and look up, and
pause, and trust their honest legs upon your hand, confiding that there was one human creature
that would not hurt them. Think of those hours, my gentle friend, and consider the object for
which that wretch of a booby is out. How many of your playmates has he stuck through with pins,
upon which they are now writhing! And when the wretch goes home murder-laden, his parents or
guardians will greet him as a most amiable and sweet youth, who wouldn't for the world misspend
his time as other boys do, but is ever on the search after knowledge; and so they swagger and
boast of his love of entomology. I'd rather my children should grow up like cucumbers--more
to belly than head--than have these scientific curiosity-noddles upon their poles of bodies,
that haven't room for hearts, and look cold and cruel, like the pins they stick through the
poor moths and butterflies, and all innocent insects. Good would it be to hear you lecture
the parents of these heartless bodies for their bringing up, and picture, in your eloquent
manner, the torments that devils may be doomed to inflict in the other world on the cruel in
this; and to fix them writhing upon their forks as they pin the poor insects. What would they
do but call you a wicked blasphemer, and prate about the merciful goodness of their Maker,
as if one Maker did not make all creatures? Yet what do such as they know of mercy but the
name? These are they that kill conscience in the bud.

Men's bosoms are like their dwellings--mansions, magnificent and gorgeous--full of all noble
and generous thoughts, with room to expand--or dwellings of pretensions, show, and meanness--or
hovels of all dirt and slovenliness; yet is there scarcely one in which conscience does not
walk in and out boldly, or steal in cautiously, though she may not always have room to move
her arms about her, and assert her presence. Yet even when circumscribed by narrowness, and
immured in all unseemly things, will she patiently watch her time for some appropriate touch,
or some quiet sound of her voice. Her most difficult scene of action, however, is in the bosom
of pretension; for there the trumpet of self-praise is ever sounding to overwhelm her voice,
and she is kept at arm's-length from the touch of the guilty hearts, by the padding and the
furniture that surround them. But oh! the hypocrites of this life--they almost make one weary
of it; they who walk with their hands as if ever weighing, by invisible scales, with their
scruples of conscience their every thought, word, and action. Shall I portray the disgusting
effigies of one? "Niger est--hunc tu, Romane, caveto." I will, however, tell you somewhat of
one that has lately come across my path, and I will call him Peter Pure; for he is one of those
that, though assuming a quietness, is really rabid in politics, and has ever upon his lips
"purity of election," and the like cant words. A few years ago his circumstances not being
very flourishing, he got the ear of our generous friend of the Grange; through his timely assistance,
and a pretty considerable loan, he overcame his difficulties, and is now pretty well to do.
At the last contest for the borough, our friend T. of the Grange, with others, waited upon
Peter Pure; and Peter, with large professions of gratitude--as how could he do less for so
kind a benefactor?--unhesitatingly promised his vote. At this time, be it observed, there was
not the slightest appearance of the contest which afterwards came, and with that storm a pretty
good shower of bribery. What quantity of this shower fell to Peter Pure's share, was never
discovered; but it is easy to conjecture that so nice, so grateful a conscience was not overcome
for nothing. Peter never liked cheap sins. The contest came, the election takes place, and
Peter Pure's plumper weighs down the adversary's scale. Soon after this he had the impudence
to accost his benefactor thus:--"My dear friend and benefactor, and worthy sir, I wished for
this opportunity of explaining to you, with the utmost sincerity and confidence, what may have
appeared to you like--yes--really like a breaking of my word. It is true I did promise you
my vote: but then, you know, voting being a very serious matter, I thought it necessary to
read my oath which I should be called upon to take; and I found, my good friend, to my astonishment,
that I was bound by it not to vote from 'favour and affection.' Yes, those are the words. Now,
it unfortunately--only unfortunately in this instance, mind me--happens, that there is not
a man in the world so much in my affection and my favour as yourself; to vote, therefore, as
you had wished me to vote, would, after reading the oath, have been downright perjury; for
I certainly should have voted 'through favour and affection.' That would have been a fearful
weight upon my conscience." Here was a pretty scoundrel, Eusebius. I should be sorry to have
you encounter him in a crowd, and trust his sides to your elbows, lest you should be taken
with one of those sudden fits of juvenility that are not quite in accordance with the sedateness
of your years. You will not be inclined to agree with an apologist I met the other day, who
simply said that Satan had thrown the temptation in his way. There is no occasion for such
superfluous labour, nor does the arch-fiend throw any of his labour away. Your Peter Pures
may be very well left to themselves, and are left to themselves; their own inventions are quite
sufficient for all their trading purposes; there is no need to put temptations in their way--they
will seek them of themselves.

You will certainly lay me under the censure that Montaigne throws upon Guicciardini. Let me
then make amends, and ascribe one action to a generous, a conscientious motive. There cannot
be found a better example than I have met with in reading some memoirs of the great and good
Colston, the founder of those excellent charities in London, Bristol, and elsewhere. I find
this passage in his life. It happened that one of his most richly-laden vessels was so long
missing, and the violent storms having given every reason to suppose she had perished, that
Colston gave her up for lost. Upon this occasion, it is said, he did not lament his unhappiness
as many are apt to do, and perpetually count up the serious amount of his losses; but, with
dutiful submission, fell upon his knees, and with thankfulness for what Providence had been
pleased to leave him, and with the utmost resignation relinquished even the smallest hope of
her recovery. When, therefore, his people came soon afterwards to tell him that his ship had
safely come to port, he did not show the signs of self-gratulation which his friends expected
to see. He was devoutly thankful for the preservation of the lives of so many seamen; but as
for the vessel and her cargo, they were no longer his--he had resigned them--he could not in
conscience take them back. He looked upon all as the gift of Providence to the poor; and, as
such, he sold the ship and merchandize--and most valuable they were--and, praying for a right
guidance, distributed the proceeds among the poor. How beautiful is such charity! Here is no
false lustre thrown upon the riches and goods of this world, that, reflected, blind the eyes
that they see not aright. The conscience of such a man as Colston was an arbiter even against
himself, sat within him in judgment to put aside his worldly interest, and made a steady light
for itself to see by, where naturally was either a glare or an obscurity, that alike might
bewilder less honest vision.

Some such idea is gloriously thus expressed by Sir Thomas Browne in his admirable Religio Medici.{A}
"Conscience only, that can see without light, sits in the areopagy and dark tribunal of our
hearts, surveys our thoughts, and condemns our obliquities. Happy is that state of vision that
can see without light, though all should look as before the creation, when there was not an
eye to see, or light to actuate a vision--wherein, notwithstanding, obscurity is only imaginable
respectively unto eyes. For unto God there was none. Eternal light was for ever--created light
was for the creation, not himself; and as He saw before the sun, He may still also see without it."

A case of conscience came to be discussed not long since, in which I took a part. We had been
speaking of the beauty of truth, and that nothing could justify the slightest deviation from
the plain letter of it. This was doubted; and the case supposed was, that of a ruffian or a
madman pursuing an innocent person with intent to murder. You see the flight and pursuit; the
pursuer is at fault, and questions you as to the way taken by the fugitive. Are you justified
in deceiving the pursuer by a false direction of the way his intended victim had taken? Are
you to say the person went to the right, when the way taken was the left? The advocate for
the downright truth maintained that you were not to deceive--though you felt quite sure that
by your telling the truth, or by your silence altogether, immediate murder would ensue. The
advocate declared, that without a moment's hesitation he should act upon his decision. He would
have done no such thing. People are better than their creeds, and, it should seem, sometimes
better than their principles. In which case would his conscience prick him most, when the heat
was over--as accessory to the murder or as the utterer of untruth? I cannot but think it a
case of instinct, which, acting before conscience, pro hac vice supersedes it. The matter is
altogether and at once, by an irresistible decree, taken out of the secondary "Court of Conscience"
and put into the primary "Court of Nature."

Truth, truth! well may Bacon speak of it thus--"'What is truth?' said laughing Pilate, and
wouldn't wait for an answer." If there be danger in the deviation shown in the case stated,
what a state are we all in? All, as we do daily in some way or other, putting our best legs
foremost. Look at the whole advertising, puffing, quacking, world--the flattering, the soothing,
the complimenting. Virtues and vices alike driving us more or less out of the straight line;
and, blindfolded by habit, we know not that we are walking circuitously. And they are not the
worst among us, perhaps, who walk so deviatingly--seeing, knowing--those that stammer out nightly
ere they rest, in confession, their fears that they have been acting if not speaking the untrue
thing, and praying for strength in their infirmity, and more simplicity of heart; and would
in their penitence shun the concourse that besets them, and hide their heads in some retired
quiet spot of peace, out of reach of this assault of temptation. And this, Eusebius, is the
best prelude I can devise to the story I have to tell you. It is of a poor old woman; shall
I magnify her offence? It was magnified indeed in her eyes. Smaller, therefore, shall it be--because
of its very largeness to her. But it will not do to soften offences, Eusebius. I see already
you are determined to do so. I will call it her crime. Yes, she lived a life of daily untruth.
She wrote it, she put her name to it--"litera scripta manet." We must not mince the matter;
she spoke it, she acted it hourly, she took payment for it--it was her food, her raiment. Oh!
all you that love to stamp the foot at poor human nature, here is an object for your contempt,
your sarcasm, your abuse, your punishment; drag her away by the hair of her head. But stay,
take care you do not "strain at a gnat and swallow a camel;" examine yourselves a little first.
She has confessed, perhaps you have not. Remember, no one knew it; no one guessed it. It is
she herself has lifted up the lantern into the dark recesses of her own heart; or rather, it
is true religion in her hath done it: and dark though it was there, you ought to see clearly
enough that her heart is not now the den wherein falsehood and hypocrisy lurk; search well--you
see none. She has made a "clean breast of it," and you had better do the same, and drop the
stone you were about to fling so mercilessly at her dying head. Are you out of patience, Eusebius?
and cry--Out with it, what did she do? You shall hear; 'tis but a simple anecdote after all.
I have learned it from a parish priest. He was sent for to attend the deathbed of poor old
village dame, or schoolmistress. She had a sin to confess; she could not die in peace till
she had confessed it. With broken speech, she sobbed, and hesitated, and sobbed again.

"I--I--I," she stammered out, and hid her face again. "There, I must, I must tell it; and may
I be forgiven! You know, sir, I have kept school forty years--yes, forty years--a poor sinful
creature--I--I"----

"My good woman," said the parish priest, "take comfort; it will be pardoned if you are thus
penitent. I hope it is not a very great sin."

"Oh yes!" said she, "and pray call me not good woman. I am--not--good;" sobbing, "alas, alas!--there,
I--will out with it! I put down that I taught grammar--and (sobbing) I, I, did not know it myself."

Eusebius, Eusebius, had you been there, you would have embraced the old dame. The father of
lies was not near her pillow. This little sin, she had put it foremost, and, like the little
figure before many nothings, she had made a million of it; and one word, nay one thought, before
confession was uttered, had breathed upon and obliterated the whole amount. Where will you
see so great truth? And this, you will agree with me, was a case of Tender Conscience.

FOOTNOTES:

{A} Religio Medici, a new edition, with its sequel, Christian Morals, and resemblant passages
from Cowper's Task. By Mr Peace, Bristol. The text of this inestimable author is here cleared
of its many errors, and the volume contains a useful verbal index.

THIERRY'S HISTORY OF THE GAULS.{A}

'Tis a pleasant thing to turn from the present, with its turmoil and its noise, its clank of
engines and its pallid artizans, its political strife and its social disorganization, to the
calm and quiet records of the past--to the contemplation of bygone greatness: of kingdoms which
have passed away,--of cities whose site is marked only by the mouldering column and the time-worn
wall--of men with whose name the world once rang, but whose very tombs are now unknown. If
there is any thing calculated to enlarge the mind, it is this; for it is only by a careful
study of the past that we come to know how duly to appreciate the present. Without this we
magnify the present; we imagine that the future will be like unto it; we form our ideas, we
base our calculations upon it alone; we forget the maxim of the Eastern sage, that "this too
shall pass away." It is by the study of history that we overcome this otherwise inevitable
tendency; we learn from it, that other nations have been as great as we, and that they are
now forgotten--that a former civilization, a fair and costly edifice which seemed to be perfect
of its kind, has crumbled before the assaults of time, and left not a trace behind. There is
a still small voice issuing forth from the ruins of Babylon, which will teach more to the thinking
mind than all the dogmas and theories of modern speculators.

When we turn to the study of ancient history, our attention is immediately riveted on the mighty
name of Rome. Even the history of Greece cannot compare with it in interest. Greece was always
great in the arts, and for long she was eminent in arms: but the arms of her citizens were
too often turned against each other; and the mind gets fatigued and perplexed in attempting
to follow the endless maze of politics, and the constant succession of unimportant wars. There
are, indeed, many splendid episodes in her history--such as the Persian war, the retreat of
the Ten Thousand, a few actions in the Peloponnesian contest, and the whole of the Theban campaigns
of Epaminondas; but the intervening periods have but a faint interest to the general reader,
till we come down to the period of the Macedonian monarchy. This, indeed, is the great act
in the drama of Grecian history. Who can peruse without interest the accounts of the glorious
reign of Alexander; of that man who, issuing from the mountains of Macedonia, riveted the fetters
of despotism on Greece, which had grown unworthy of freedom, and carried his victorious arms
over the fertile plains of Palestine, till he stood a conqueror amidst the palaces of Persepolis,
and finally halted only on the frontiers of Hindostan, arrested in his progress not by the
arms of his enemies but by the revolt of his soldiers? He flung a halo of glory around the
last days of Greece, like the bright light of a meteor, whose course he resembled equally in
the rapidity and brilliancy of his career. With him dies the interest of Grecian story: the
intrigues and disputes of his successors, destitute of general interest, served but to pave
the way for the progress of a mightier power.

Of greater interest even than this is the history of Rome. Her conquests were not merely the
glorious and dazzling achievements of one man, which owed their existence to his talents, and
crumbled to pieces at his death; they were slow and gradual in their progress--the effects
of a deep and firm policy: they were not made in a day, but they endured for a thousand years.
No country presents such interest to the politician and the soldier. To the one, the rise and
progress of her constitution; her internal struggles; the balance of political power in the
state; her policy, her principles of government; the administration and treatment of the many
nations which composed her vast empire, must ever be the subject of deep and careful study:
while to the other, the campaigns of Hannibal, the wars of Cæsar, and the long line of her
military annals, present a wide field for investigation and instruction--an inexhaustible topic
for philosophic reflection.

But there is one subject connected with the progress of the Roman empire which has been unduly
neglected, and without a perfect understanding of which we cannot justly appreciate either
the civil or military policy of that state. We mean the history of the nations who came in
contact with her--viz. the Carthaginians, the Gauls, the Spaniards. The ancient historians
belonged exclusively to Greece or Rome: they looked upon all other nations except themselves
as barbarous; and they never related their history except incidentally, and in so far as it
was connected with that of those two countries. Modern historians, following in their track,
and attracted by the splendour of their names, deviated not from the beaten path; and a thick
veil still hung over the semi-barbarous neighbours and enemies of Rome. The history of no one
of those nations was more interesting, or in many points involved in greater obscurity, than
that of the GAULS.

Nowhere amongst the ancient writers could any connected account of the origin or progress of
this nation be found; scattered notices of them alone could be discovered interspersed incidentally
amongst other matter, and these notices were frequently inconsistent. This is particularly
the case as regards their early history: in later times, when they came into more immediate
contact with the Romans, a more connected and minute account of them has been preserved. In
the lively pages of Livy, and in the more accurate narrative of Polybius, a considerable mass
of information on this subject maybe found; while a clear light has been thrown on many parts
of their latter history by the narrative of Appian, the Lives of Plutarch, and, above all,
by the Commentaries of Cæsar. But all this information, scattered over a multiplicity of authors,
could give us no conception of their history as a people. An author was still wanting to collect
all these together, so as to present us with something like a continuous history. But to do
this was no easy task: the materials were scanty and often contradictory; they were all written
in a spirit hostile to the Gauls; a deep vein of prejudice and national partiality ran through
and tarnished them all; the motives of that people were misrepresented, their actions falsified,
the historians often understood little of their institutions and their character. From such
materials it required no common man to be able to deduce a clear and impartial narrative; it
required great talent and deep research--the accuracy of the scholar and the spirit of the
philosopher, the acuteness of the critic joined to the eye of the painter. Such a man has been
found in Amadée Thierry. His History of the Gauls is a work of rare merit--a work which must
ever be in the hand of every one who would understand the history of antiquity. It is little
to the credit of the literature of this country, that his work has not yet appeared in an English
translation.

He has traced the progress of the Gauls, from their earliest appearance on the stage of the
world till their final subjection to the Roman power, in a manner worthy of a scholar and a
philosopher. His narrative is clear, animated, and distinct; he possesses in an eminent degree
the power of giving breadth to his pictures; of drawing the attention of his readers to the
important events, whilst the remainder are thrown into shade. His mode of treating his authorities
is perhaps the best that can be imagined; he neither clogs his pages with long extracts, nor
does he leave them unsupported by a reference to the original authors. At the end of each paragraph
a reference is given to the authorities followed, to whom the reader may at once turn if he
wish to verify the conclusions arrived at; and where the points are involved in obscurity,
the passages founded on are quoted generally in a note, and never in the text, except when
their importance really justified such an interruption of the narrative. His style is always
animated and graphic, occasionally rising to elevated flights of eloquence, while his subject
is one of a deep and varied interest; for in following the checkered fortunes of the Gauls,
he is brought in contact with almost every nation of the earth. To whatever country of the
ancient world we turn, we find that the Gaul has preceded us, either as the savage conqueror
or the little less savage mercenary. Issuing originally from the East, that boundless cradle
of the human race, we soon find him contending with the German for his morass, with the Spaniard
for his gold--traversing the sands of Africa, and pillaging the plains of Greece--founding
a kingdom in the midst of Asiatic luxury, and bearing his conquering lance beneath the Capitol
of Rome. But a mightier spirit soon rose to rule the storm. In vain the courage of the Gaul,
allied with the power of Carthage, and directed by the genius of Hannibal, maintained for years
a desperate and doubtful contest in the heart of Italy. The power of Rome kept steadily advancing:
Greece soon fell beneath her conquering arm; and the fleets of Carthage no longer ruled the
wave. The Spaniard, after many a hard-fought field, at last sank into sullen submission; and
the Galatians, degenerating under the influence of Asiatic manners, proved unequal to the contest;
the Gaul, instead of inundating the land of the foreigner, could with difficulty maintain his
own; and soon the eagle of the Capitol spread its wings over a Transalpine province. But the
free spirit of the Gaul now made a mighty effort to rend asunder the bonds which encircled
it; and a countless multitude, after ravaging Spain, poured down into Italy: the Roman empire
rocked to its foundation, when Marius, hastening over from his African conquests, saved his
country by the glorious and bloody victory of Aquæ Sextiæ. Yet a little while and the legions
of Rome, under the orders of Cæsar, traversing with fire and sword their country, retaliated
on the Gaul the calamities he had often inflicted on others, subdued his proud spirit, and
forged for him, amidst seas of blood, those fetters which were finally riveted by the policy
of Augustus. Such is a brief outline of the heart-stirring story of this singular and interesting
race.

One of the most interesting parts of Thierry's work is the Introduction. He there gives a brief
view of the character of the Gaulish race; its division into two great branches, the Gaul and
the Kimry, and the periods into which the history of this people naturally divides itself.
A considerable part of it is taken up in proving that this people do in reality consist of
two great branches, the Gaul and the Kimry. This, we think, he has clearly and satisfactorily
shown, by evidence drawn both from the language and from the historical accounts which have
been preserved to us regarding them. His character of the Gauls as a people is ably and well
given; but here we must let him speak for himself:--

     "The salient characteristics of the Gaulish family--those which
     distinguish it the most, in my opinion, from the other races of
     men--may be thus summed up:--A personal bravery unequaled amongst
     the people of antiquity; a spirit frank, impetuous, open to every
     impression, eminently intelligent; but joined to that an extreme
     frivolity, want of constancy, a marked repugnance to the ideas of
     discipline and order so strong in the German race, much
     ostentation--in fine, a perpetual disunion, the consequence of
     excessive vanity. If we wish to compare, in a few words, the
     Gaulish family with that German family to whom we have just
     alluded, we may say that the personal sentiment, the individual I,
     is too much developed amongst the former, and that amongst the
     latter it is not sufficiently so. Thus we find, in every page of
     Gaulish story, original characters who strongly excite and
     concentrate upon themselves our sympathy, causing us to forget the
     masses; whilst, in the history of the Germans, it is generally the
     masses who produce the effect. Such is the general character of the
     people of the Gaulish blood; but in that character itself, an
     observation of facts leads us to recognise two distinct shades
     corresponding to two distinct branches of the family, or to use the
     expression consecrated by history, to two distinct races. One of
     those races--that which I designate by the name of the
     Gauls--presents in the most marked manner all the natural
     dispositions, all the faults and all the virtues, of the family; to
     it belong, in their purest state, the individual types of the Gaul.
     The other, the Kimry, less active, less spiritual perhaps,
     possesses in return more weight and stability: it is in its bosom
     principally that we remark the institutions of classification and
     order; it is there that the ideas of theocracy and monarchy longest
     maintain their sway."--(I. iv. vi.)

How important and how little attended to is this character of the different races of men! How
perfectly is it preserved under all situations and under all circumstances! No lapse of time
can change, no distance can efface it. Nowhere do we see this more distinctly than in America:
there how marked is the difference of the Spanish race in the south and the Anglo-Saxon in
the north! And from this we may draw a deeply important practical lesson; viz. the danger of
attempting to force on one race institutions fitted to another. Under a free government, the
Anglo-Saxon in the north flourished and increased, and became a mighty people. Under a despotic
sway, the Spaniard in the south was slowly but surely treading that path which would ultimately
have led to national greatness, when a revolution, nourished by English gold, and rendered
victorious by English arms, inflicted what was to him the curse of free institutions. Under
their influence, commerce has fled from the shores of New Spain; the gold-mines of Peru lie
unworked; population has retrograded; the fertile land has returned to a state of nature; and
anarchy, usurping the place of government, has involved the country in ruin and desolation.
Nor is this the only instance of the effect of free institutions on the Spanish race. In Old
Spain the same experiment has been tried, and has produced the same result. Under their withering
effect, the empire of Spain and the Indies has passed away; the mother country, torn by internal
dissensions, has fallen from her proud estate, and can with difficulty drag on a precarious
existence amidst all the tumult and blood of incessant revolutions. How long will it be ere
we learn that free institutions are the Amreeta cup of nations--the greatest of all blessings
or the greatest of all curses, according to the race on which it is conferred!

The history of the Gauls, in Thierry's opinion, divides itself naturally into four great periods:
his brief resumé of the state of the nation, during each of those periods, is so animated that
we cannot refrain from quoting his own words:--

     "The first period contains the adventures of the Gaulish nations in
     the nomad state. No race of the West has accomplished a more
     agitated and brilliant career. Its wanderings embrace Europe, Asia,
     and Africa: its name is inscribed with terror in the annals of
     almost every people. It burned Rome: it conquered Macedonia from
     the veteran phalanxes of Alexander, forced Thermopylæ, and pillaged
     Delphi: afterwards it planted its tents on the ruins of ancient
     Troy, in the public places of Miletus, on the banks of the
     Sangarius, and on those of the Nile: it besieged Carthage,
     threatened Memphis, reckoned among its tributaries the most
     powerful monarchs of the East: on two occasions it founded in Upper
     Italy a mighty dominion, and it raised up in the bosom of Phrygia
     that other empire of the Galatians which so long ruled Asia Minor.

     "In the second period--that of the sedentary state--we observe the
     same race every where developing itself, or permanently settled,
     with social, religious, and political institutions, suited to its
     particular character--original institutions, and civilization full
     of life and movement, of which Transalpine Gaul offers a model the
     purest and the most complete. One would say, to follow the animated
     scenes of that picture, that the theocracy of India, the feudality
     of the Middle Ages, and the Athenian democracy, had resorted to the
     same soil, there to combat and rule over one and other in turn.
     Soon that civilization mixes and alters: foreign elements introduce
     themselves, imported by commerce, by the relations of vicinity, by
     the reaction of the conquered population. Hence various and other
     strange combinations: in Italy it is the Roman influence which
     makes itself felt in the manners of the Cisalpines: in the south of
     Transalpine Gaul it is at first the influence of the Greeks of
     Massalia, afterwards that of the Italian colonies: and in Galatia
     there springs up the most singular combination of Gaulish, Phrygian
     and Greek civilization.

     "Next follows the period of national strife and of conquest. By a
     chance worthy of notice, it is always under the sword of the Roman
     that the power of the Gaulish nations falls: in proportion as the
     Roman dominion extends, the Gaulish dominion, up to that time
     firmly established, recoils and declines: one would say that the
     conquerors and the conquered from the Allia followed one and other
     to all points of the earth to decide the old quarrel of the
     Capitol. In Italy the Cisalpines are subjugated, but only after two
     centuries of the most determined resistance: when the rest of Asia
     accepted the yoke, the Galatians defended still, against Rome, the
     independence of the East. Gaul yields, but only from exhaustion,
     after a century of partial contests, and nine years of a general
     war under Cæsar: in fine, the names of Caractac and Galgac render
     illustrious the last and fruitless efforts of British liberty. It
     is every where the unequal combat of a military spirit, ardent and
     heroic, but simple and unskilful, against the same spirit
     disciplined and persevering. Few nations show in their annals so
     beautiful a page as that last Gaulish war, written nevertheless by
     an enemy. Every effort of heroism, every prodigy of valour, which
     the love of liberty and of country ever produced, there displayed
     themselves in spite of a thousand contrary and fatal passions:
     discords between the cities, discords in the cities, enterprises of
     the nobles against the people, licentiousness of democracy,
     hereditary enmities of race. What men were those Bitunyes who in
     one day burned twenty of their towns! What men were those Camutes,
     fugitives, pursued by the sword, by famine, by winter, and whom
     nothing could conquer! What variety of character is there amongst
     their chiefs--from the druid Divitiac, the good and honest
     enthusiast of the Roman civilization, to the savage Ambio-rix,
     crafty, vindictive, implacable, who admired and imitated nothing
     save the savageness of the German: from Dumno-rix, that ambitious
     but fierce agitator, who wished to make the conqueror of the Gauls
     an instrument, but not a master, to that Vercingeto-rix, so pure,
     so eloquent, so true, so magnanimous in misfortune, and who wanted
     nothing to take a place amongst the greatest men, but to have had
     another enemy, above all another historian, than Cæsar!

     "The fourth period comprises the organization of Gaul into a Roman
     province, and the slow and successive assimilation of Transalpine
     manners to the manners and institutions of Italy--a labour
     commenced by Augustus, continued with success by Claudius,
     completed in latter times. That transference from one civilization
     to another was not made without violence and without checks:
     numerous revolts are suppressed by Augustus--a great insurrection
     fails against Tiberius. The distractions and the impending ruin of
     Rome during the civil wars of Galba, of Otho, of Vitellius, and of
     Vespasian, gave room for a sudden explosion of the spirit of
     independence to the north of the Alps. The Gaulish nations again
     took up arms, the senates reformed themselves, the proscribed
     druids reappeared, the Roman legions cantoned on the Rhine are
     defeated or gained over, an empire of the Gauls is constructed in
     haste: but soon Gaul perceives that it is already at bottom
     entirely Roman, and that a return to the ancient order of things is
     no longer either desirable for its happiness, or even possible; it
     resigns itself therefore to its irrevocable destiny, and reunites
     without a murmur into the community of the Roman empire."--(I.
     6-10)

Here indeed is a noble field for history--many such exist not in the world; it joins the colours
of romance to the truth of narrative--it embraces within its range all countries, from the
snow-clad mountains of the north to the waterless deserts of the south.

When the first light of history dawns upon the Gallic race, we find them settled in that territory
which is bounded by the Rhine, the Alps, the Mediterranean, the Pyrenees, and the ocean, and
in the British isles. There they lived, leading a pastoral life, wandering about from place
to place, and ready to descend with their flocks and herds wherever cupidity might lead, or
fancy direct them. They first turned their footsteps towards Spain; tribe after tribe crossed
the Pyrenees, and either expelled or amalgamated with the aboriginal inhabitants. Their efforts
were principally directed towards the centre and west; in consequence of which, the native
Spaniards, displaced and driven back upon the Mediterranean coast, soon opened a way for themselves
across the eastern passes of the mountains, and, traversing the shores of southern Gaul, entered
Italy. There they took the name of the Ligures, and established themselves along the whole
line of sea-coast from the Pyrenees to the mouth of the Arno. The road to Italy being thus
laid bare by the Spaniards, the Gauls soon followed on their footsteps, and, crossing the Alps,
poured down into the fertile plains and vine-clad hills of the smiling south: but they were
encountered and overcome by the Etruscans. Internal convulsions in the centre of Gaul, however,
hurled new hordes across the Alps. The Kimry, from the Palus Moeotis, entered the north-eastern
portion of Gaul, and expelled from their territory many of the tribes who were settled there:
these, uniting in large hordes, precipitated themselves upon Italy. The Kimry, too, joined
in the incursion; race followed race, and the whole of northern Italy was soon peopled by the
Gaulish race, who long threatened the nations of the south with entire subjugation and destruction.
The empire of the Gauls in Italy, known by the name of Cisalpine Gaul, was productive of the
greatest calamities to that unhappy country; every year there issued forth from it bands of
adventurers, who wasted the fields and stormed the cities of Etruria, of Campania, and of Magna
Græcia. But an expedition on a larger scale was at last undertaken. Pressed by the increasing
population in their rear, a large band determined to abandon their present homes, and seek
new conquests, and acquire new booty. They first directed their march to Clusium; but soon
the torrent rolled with resistless force upon the walls of Rome. Defeated at the Allia, the
Romans abandoned their city, leaving, however, a garrison in the Capitol; this garrison, reduced
to the last extremities by famine, was obliged to capitulate, and to purchase the departure
of their foes by an enormous ransom. The Gauls, crowned with success and loaded with plunder,
departed; and the Romans, taking courage at their retreat, harassed their rear and cut off
their supplies.

Such is the truth regarding this famous invasion, which has been the subject of a falsification
probably without a parallel in the annals of history; by it defeat was transformed into victory,
and the day when Rome suffered her greatest humiliation by the ransom of her capital, was turned
into almost the most famous day of her existence, when her most successful enemy was humbled
to the dust. In the pages of a Greek historian the truth has been preserved; while the annals
of the state are filled with a very different tale, embellished with all the eloquence and
genius of the national historian. Such a sacrifice of historical veracity, in order to appease
the insatiable cravings of national vanity, naturally casts a shade of doubt and suspicion
on all the early records of her victories and triumphs. Freed from her enemies, Rome revived
and emerged unconquered from the strife; she had been forced to bend before misfortune, but
she was not broken by adversity: a new city sprung up on the ruins of the old, and the legions
once more issued from the ramparts to carry her victorious banners to the capitals of a conquered
world. We have not space to trace the various fortunes of Cisalpine Gaul during the early struggles
which it carried on with the now increasing power of Rome. Suffice it to say, that when the
Latins united in a league against her, the Cisalpines joined them; an engagement took place
at Sentinum, where victory crowned the efforts of the Romans; but though defeated, the Gauls
maintained their high character for valour during that fatal day. This success was followed
up by a vigorous attack on the powerful Gaulish tribe of the Senones, who were almost exterminated,
and on their territory was established a Roman colony: this was the first permanent settlement
made by that people amongst the Gaulish tribes of Italy.

We must refer the reader to M. Thierry's work for the account of the causes which led the Gauls
and Kimry to press upon, and finally invade northern Greece, and the relation of the defeat
of their first attack under the Brenn. We shall dwell somewhat longer on their second invasion,
which forms one of the most interesting episodes of their history:--

     "In the year 280 B.C., the Gauls, under a celebrated chief whose
     title was the Brenn, prepared to invade Greece. Their army,
     composed of various tribes of Gauls and Kimry, amounted to 152,000
     infantry and 61,000 cavalry. When this immense array reached the
     frontiers of Macedonia, a division broke out amongst their chiefs,
     and 20,000 men, detaching themselves from the main army, advanced
     into Thrace. The remainder, under the Brenn, precipitated
     themselves on Macedonia, routed the army which endeavoured to
     arrest their progress, and forced the remnant of the regular forces
     who survived, to take refuge in the fortified cities. During six
     months they ravaged with fire and sword the open country, and
     destroyed the unfortified towns of Macedonia and Thessaly. At the
     approach of winter, the Brenn collected his forces and established
     his camp in Thessaly, at a position near Mount Olympus. Thessaly is
     separated from Epirus and Ætolia by the chain of Pindus; and on the
     south, the almost impenetrable range of Mount Oeta divides it
     from the provinces of Hellas. The only pass by which an army can
     march into Greece is that of Thermopylæ, which is a long narrow
     defile, overhung on the right by the rocks of Mount Oeta, and
     flanked on the left by impassable morasses, which finally lose
     themselves in the waters of the gulf of Mulia. A few narrow and
     difficult tracts traverse the ridge of Oeta; but these, though
     passable to a small body of infantry, present insurmountable
     obstacles to the advance of an army. To the pass of Thermopylæ, in
     the spring of the year 280 B.C., the Brenn directed his march.
     Aware of its vital importance, the Athenians, Boeotians,
     Locrians, Phocians, and Megarians, who had formed a league against
     the northern invaders, collected a force of about 26,000 men, who,
     under the orders of Calippus, advanced to and occupied the strait,
     whilst 305 Athenian galleys, anchored in the bay of Mulia, were
     ready to operate upon the flank of the enemy. In his approach to
     this position, the Brenn had to pass the river Sperchius, to defend
     which Calippus had detached a small force: the Brenn, by a
     stratagem, directed their attention from the real point of attack,
     and crossed the river without loss. He then advanced to Heraclea,
     and laid waste the surrounding country. The day after his arrival
     at this place, he marched upon Thermopylæ. Hardly had the Gauls
     begun to involve themselves in the pass, when they were encountered
     by the Greeks in its classic defile. With loud cries, and in one
     enormous mass, the Gauls rushed impetuously on; in silence, and in
     perfect order, the Greeks advanced to the charge. The phalanx of
     the south proved impenetrable to the sabre of the north; the pass
     was soon covered with their dead bodies; the Gallic standards were
     unable to advance. Meanwhile the Athenian galleys, forcing their
     way through the marshes, poured in an incessant volley of arrows
     and darts on the long and unprotected flank of the invaders. Unable
     to withstand this double attack, the Gauls were forced to retreat.
     This they did in the utmost confusion; large numbers perished,
     trodden to death by their companions--still more were drowned in
     the morasses. Seven days after this severe check, a small party
     having attempted to cross Mount Oeta, they were attacked when
     involved in a narrow and difficult pass, and cut to pieces. To
     raise the drooping spirits of his men, and to separate the forces
     of his adversaries, the Brenn detached a corps of 40,000 men, under
     the command of Comlutis, with orders to force their way into
     Ætolia. This diversion proved eminently successful. Comlutis,
     finding the passes of Mount Pindus unguarded, traversed that range,
     and entered Ætolia, the whole of which he laid waste with fire and
     sword without opposition, as the whole military force of that
     country had marched to the defence of Thermopylæ. On hearing of
     this invasion, the Ætolians immediately separated from the allied
     army, and hastened to the defence of their country. On their
     approach Comlutis retreated; but whilst involved in the mountain
     passes, his rear was overtaken by the regulars, and his flanks were
     assailed by the enraged peasantry; so severe was his loss, that
     hardly one-half of his force rallied at the camp of Heraclea. The
     day after the departure of the Ætolians, the Brenn led on the main
     body of his troops to attack the pass of Thermopylæ; whilst a
     strong detachment received orders to force one of the mountain
     paths, the knowledge of which had been betrayed to him by the
     inhabitants; being guided by one of whom, and their movements being
     concealed from view by a thick mist, which enveloped them, this
     detachment succeeded in surprising the troops who were entrusted
     with its defence, and, moving rapidly on, they fell on the rear of
     the main body of the allies, who were engaged at Thermopylæ.
     Assaulted both in front and rear, the Greeks would have been
     totally destroyed, had it not been for the presence of the Athenian
     fleet, who afforded a safe refuge to their shattered ranks. Freed
     from the presence of his opponents, the Brenn immediately pushed on
     to Elatia at the head of 65,000 men, from whence he directed his
     march on Delphi. The town of Delphi was built on the slope of one
     of the peaks of Parnassus, in the midst of a natural excavation,
     and being almost entirely surrounded with precipices, it was left
     unprotected by any artificial fortifications: above the town, on
     the north, was situated the magnificent temple of Apollo, filled
     with native offerings of the Greeks. The possession of this
     treasure was the main object of the Brenn. The Gaulish army, on
     their arrival before Delphi, dispersed over, and pillaged the
     surrounding country for the remainder of the day; thus losing the
     most favourable opportunity of assaulting the town."

The dénouement of the tragedy we shall give in Thierry's own words:--

     "During the night, Delphi received from all sides, by the mountain
     paths, numerous reinforcements from the neighbouring people. There
     arrived successively 1200 well-armed Ætolians, 400 heavy-armed men
     from Amplussa, and a detachment of Phocians, who, with the citizens
     of Delphi, formed a body of 4000 men. At the same time, they
     learned that the brave Ætolian army, after having defeated
     Comlutis, had retaken the road to Elatia, and, increased by bands
     of the Phocians and Boeotians, laboured to prevent the junction
     of the Gaulish army of Heraclea with the division which besieged
     Delphi.

     "During the same night, the camp of the Gauls was the theatre of
     the greatest debauchery; and when day dawned, the greater portion
     of them were still intoxicated: nevertheless, it was necessary to
     make the assault without loss of time, for the Brenn already
     perceived how much the delay of a few hours had cost him. He drew
     out his troops then in battle array, enumerating to them anew all
     the treasures which they had before their eyes, and those which
     awaited them in the temple: he then gave the signal for the
     escalade. The attack was vigorous, and was sustained by the Greeks
     with firmness. From the summit of the narrow and steep slope by
     which the assailants had to ascend in order to approach the town,
     the besieged poured down a multitude of arrows and stones, not one
     of which fell harmless. Several times the Gauls covered the ascent
     with their dead; but every time they returned to the charge with
     courage, and at last forced the passage. The besieged, obliged to
     beat a retreat, withdrew to the nearest streets of the town,
     leaving the approach which conducted to the temple free: the
     Gaulish race rushed on: soon the whole multitude was occupied in
     pillaging the oratories which adjoined the temple, and, in fine,
     the temple itself.

     "It was then autumn, and during the combat one of those sudden
     storms so frequent in the lofty chains of Hellas had gathered;
     suddenly it burst, discharging on the mountain torrents of rain and
     hail. The priests attached to the temple of Apollo, seized upon an
     incident so fitted to strike the superstitious spirit of the
     Greeks. With haggard eyes, with disheveled locks, with frenzied
     minds, they spread out through the town, and through the ranks of
     the army, crying that the god had arrived. 'He is here!' said they;
     'we have seen him pass across the vault of the temple, which is
     cloven beneath his feet; two armed virgins, Minerva and Diana,
     accompany him. We have heard the whistling of their bows, and the
     clang of their lances. Hasten, O Greeks! upon the steps of your
     gods, if you wish to partake of their victory!' That spectacle,
     those exhortations pronounced amidst the rolling of the thunder,
     and by the glare of the lightning, filled the Hellenes with a
     supernatural enthusiasm; they reformed in battle array, and
     precipitated themselves sword in hand upon the enemy. The same
     circumstances operated not less strongly, but in a contrary way,
     upon the victorious bands; the Gauls believed that they recognised
     the power of a divinity, but of an enraged divinity. The
     thunderbolts had frequently struck their battalions, and its
     reports, repeated by the echoes, produced around them such a
     reverberation, that they no longer heard the commands of their
     chiefs. Those who penetrated into the interior of the temple, had
     felt the pavement tremble under their steps; they had been seized
     by a thick and mephitic vapour, which overpowered them, and threw
     them into a violent delirium. The historians relate, that amidst
     this tumult they beheld three warriors of a sinister aspect, of
     more than human stature, covered with old armour, and who
     slaughtered the Gauls with their lances, appear. The Delphians
     recognised, say they, the shades of three heroes, Hyperochus and
     Zorodocus, whose tombs adjoined the temple, and Pyrrhus the son of
     Achilles. As to the Gauls, a wild panic hurried them in disorder to
     their camp, which they attained only with great difficulty,
     overwhelmed by the arrows of the Greeks, and by the fall of
     enormous rocks, which rolled over upon them from the summit of
     Parnassus. In the ranks of the besiegers, the loss was doubtless
     considerable.

     "To that disastrous day succeeded, for the Kimry-Gauls, a night not
     less terrible; the cold was excessive, and snow fell in abundance;
     besides, fragments of rock falling incessantly in their camp, which
     was situated too near the mountain, crushed the soldiers not by one
     or two at a time, but by bodies of thirty and forty, as often as
     they assembled to maintain guard or to seek repose. The sun no
     sooner rose, than the Greeks who were within the town made a
     vigorous sally, whilst those who were in the country fell upon the
     rear of the enemy. At the same time, the Phocians, crossing the
     snow by paths known but to themselves, took them in flank, and
     assailed them with arrows and stones, without exposing themselves
     to the slightest danger. Hemmed in on all sides, discouraged, and,
     moreover, extremely incommoded by the cold, which had cut off many
     of their number during the night, the Gauls began to yield. They
     were sustained for some time by the intrepidity of the chosen band
     who combated around the Brenn, and acted as his guard. The
     strength, the stature, the courage of that guard, struck the Greeks
     with astonishment. In the end, the Brenn having been dangerously
     wounded, those brave men dreamed only of making a rampart of their
     bodies for him, and of carrying him from the field. The chiefs then
     gave the signal of retreat, and to prevent the wounded from falling
     into the hands of the enemy, they caused those who were not in a
     condition to follow, to be put to death. The army halted when the
     night overtook it.

     "The first watch of that second night had hardly commenced, when
     the soldiers who were on guard imagined that they heard the tumult
     of a night march, and the distant tramp of horses. The darkness,
     already profound, did not permit them to discover their mistake;
     they gave the alarm, and cried out that they were surprised--that
     the enemy was upon them. The famine, the dangers, and the
     extraordinary occurrences which had befallen them during the last
     two days, had much shattered all their imaginations. At that cry,
     'The enemy is at hand!' the Gauls, suddenly aroused, seized their
     arms, and believing the camp already entered, they threw themselves
     upon, and mutually slaughtered, each other. Their consternation was
     so great, that they believed that each word which struck their ears
     was uttered in Greek; as if they had forgotten their own proper
     tongue. Besides, the darkness of the night did not permit them
     either to recognise each other, or to distinguish the shape of
     their bucklers. Day put an end to that frightful mêlée; but
     during the night the Phocian shepherds, who remained in the fields
     to watch their flocks, ran to inform the Greeks of the disorder
     which was evident in the Gaulish camp. They attributed so
     unexpected an event to the intervention of the god Pan, from whom,
     according to the religious faith of the Greeks, alarms without any
     real cause proceeded; full of ardour and of confidence, they
     attacked the rearguard of the enemy. The Gauls had already resumed
     their march, but with languor, as men discouraged, worn out by
     diseases, famine, and fatigue. On their line of march the
     population carried off the cattle and provisions, so that they
     could not procure any subsistence without the utmost difficulty,
     and at the point of the sword. The historians reckon at 10,000 the
     number of those who sank under these misfortunes; the cold and the
     nocturnal combat had cut off as many more, and 6000 had perished at
     the assault of Delphi: there remained then to the Brenn no more
     than 35,000 men when he rejoined the main body of his army, in the
     plains watered by the Cephisus, on the day after his departure from
     Thermopylæ."--(I. 171-178.)

The Brenn, overwhelmed with grief at his misfortune, no sooner saw his army free from immediate
danger than he put himself to death. His successor, following his dying advice, slaughtered
10,000 of the wounded, and continued his retreat:--

     "As he approached Thermopylæ, the Greeks, issuing forth from an
     ambuscade, threw themselves on his rearguard, which they cut to
     pieces. It was in this miserable state that the Gauls gained the
     camp of Heraclea. They remained there for a few days before setting
     out on their northward route. All the bridges of the Sperchius had
     been broken down, and the left bank of the river was occupied by
     the Thessalians, who had collected en masse; nevertheless, the
     Gaulish army forced a passage. It was in the midst of a population
     all armed, and thirsting for vengeance, that they traversed, from
     one extremity to the other, Thessaly and Macedonia, exposed to
     perils, to sufferings, to privations, daily increasing, combating
     without intermission during the day, and at night having no other
     shelter than a cold and watery sky. They gained at last the
     northern frontier of Macedonia. There the distribution of the body
     took place: afterwards the Kimry-Gauls divided into many bands;
     some returned to their country, others sought in different
     directions new food for their turbulent activity."--(I. 180.)

A band of Tectosages joined to the Tolistoboies, and a horde of Gauls, united, and traversing
Thrace with fire and sword, passed over into Asia Minor. They found it distracted by the quarrels
of Alexander's successors. Summoned in an evil hour by Nicomedes to aid him and the Greek states
of Asia Minor in their struggle against the Seleucidæ, they soon established him on the throne
of Bithynia. But they now turned their victorious arms against the nations of that unhappy
country. Their armies, increased by reinforcements drawn from Thrace, had divided themselves
into three hordes: the Tectosages, the Tolistoboies, and the Trocmes. To avoid dispute, they
distributed the whole of Asia Minor into three parts: of these the Trocmes possessed the Hellespont
and Troas; the Tolistoboies, Æolida and Ionia; the Tectosages, the coast of the Mediterranean
from the west of Mount Taurus. They now overran and subdued all Asia Minor; every country,
every town, was obliged to pay them tribute; or soon the fertile land was reduced to an arid
desert, watered only by the blood of its inhabitants, and the costly city, stormed by the fierce
warriors of the north, became a heap of smoking ruins. At last the Tectosages came in contact
with Antiochus, king of Syria, and were totally defeated at the battle of the Taurus; the Syrian
king, following up his victory, compelled them to resign their conquests, and to establish
themselves on the banks of the Halys, near the town of Ancyra, in Upper Phrygia, where they
dwelt, too weak again to enter on the career of conquest. Internal war prevented the Asiatics
for some time from pursuing their successes, and the Trocmes and Tolistoboies continued still
to pillage and oppress all the maritime provinces. Nay, their power was actually increased
by those wars, as each of the contending parties purchased the mercenary services of large
bands of those brave, though turbulent warriors. But the end of the Gaulish rule in Asia Minor
was at hand. The small state of Pergamus, under the able rule of Eumenes, emerged from its
obscurity, and inflicted a severe wound upon the Gauls by the defeat of Antiochus, king of
Syria, with whom a great number of them served as mercenaries. His son Attalus, on his accession
to the throne, immediately marched against and defeated the Tolistoboies. Ionia, which had
long groaned under their oppression, seizing the opportunity, rose up against them; the Tolistoboies,
beaten in several engagements, were driven beyond Mount Taurus; and the Trocmes, after a vain
attempt to maintain themselves in Troas, were forced to retreat and unite with their defeated
countrymen. Attacked now by the whole population of Asia Minor, the two hordes were driven
by degrees into Upper Phrygia, where the Tectosages had formerly settled. Here the three hordes
united, and here they founded the empire of Galatia.

     "Thus ended in Asia Minor the dominion of this people in their
     character of nomad conquerors; another period of existence now
     commenced for them. Abandoning their wandering life, they mixed
     with the indigenous population, who were themselves a mixture of
     Greek colonists and Asiatics. That blending together of three
     races, unequal in power and in civilization, produced a mixed
     nation, that of the Gallo-Greeks, whose civil, political, and
     religious institutions, carry the triple stamp of Gaulish, Greek,
     and Phrygian manners. The regular influence which the Gauls are
     destined to act in Asia Minor, as an Asiatic power, will prove not
     to be inferior to that of which they have been deprived; and we
     shall see them defend, almost to the last, the liberty of the East
     against the Roman arms."--(I. 203-204.)

We have not space to follow M. Thierry in his very interesting account of the exploits of the
Gaulish mercenaries in Greece--in particular of those who served in the army of Pyrrhus; or
who, acting in the pay of Carthage, contributed so much to the victories of that powerful and
wealthy people, and who took that lead in the famous insurrection of the mercenaries, which
so nearly brought about their ruin. We must pass over too, unnoticed, the desperate struggle
between the Romans and Gauls in Cisalpine Gaul, which ended in the defeat of the Boian confederacy
at the battle of the Telama, and their submission, and the subjugation of the Insubrians by
Marcellus. The whole of Cisalpine Gaul thus seemed to be finally subdued, when a new enemy
suddenly appeared in the field, and again led the Gaulish standards into the heart of southern
Italy.

Hardly had the Cisalpines laid down their arms, when there arrived amongst them emissaries
sent by Hannibal to excite them to a renewal of the war, and to engage them in an alliance
with Carthage, by promising to guarantee to them the liberty of their country, and by exciting
their cupidity with the prospect of the spoils of Rome and southern Italy. They were well received,
and secret armaments soon began to take place, especially amongst the Boian confederacy. But
what immediately caused the outbreak was an attempt of the Romans to found two colonies, one
at Cremona, and the other at Placentia. Enraged at this, the Boians took up arms, and attacking
the colonists of Placentia, dispersed them, whilst the Insubrians expelled those who had advanced
to Cremona. The Boians and Insubrians now uniting their forces, laid siege to Mutina, but in
vain. This check, however, was more than counterbalanced by the defeat of a Roman army under
the orders of Manlius. While affairs were in this state, the columns of Hannibal, descending
from the Alps, arrived on the Insubrian territory. The result of the late successes of the
Gauls in their disposition towards Hannibal, is well explained by Thierry:--

     "Two factions then divided all Cisalpine Gaul. The one composed of
     the Venetes, the Cremonas, and the Ligures of the Alps, gained over
     to the Roman cause, opposed with vigour every movement in favour of
     Hannibal. The other, which included the Ligures of the Apennines,
     the Insubrians, and the people of the Boian confederation, had
     embraced the Carthaginian side, but without much ardour. The
     affairs of Gaul had undergone a great change. At the time when the
     propositions of Hannibal were received with enthusiasm, Gaul was
     humiliated and conquered; Roman troops occupied her
     territory--Roman colonies assembled in her towns. But since the
     dispersion of the colonies of Cremona and Placentia--since the
     defeat of L. Manlius in the forest of Mutina, the Boians and
     Insubrians, satisfied at having recovered their independence with
     their own forces, cared little to compromise themselves for the
     advantage of strangers, whose appearance and numbers inspired them
     with but slight confidence."--(I. 284-285.)

Hannibal felt all the importance of deciding the wavering sentiments of this people; on them
his future success or defeat depended; to do this nothing but victory was requisite. He accordingly
advanced rapidly against the Romans, and first engaged them in a cavalry action at the Ticinus.
Victory declared for the Carthaginians. The horse of Numidia routed the cavalry of Rome. This
success, unimportant as it was, revealed Hannibal to the eyes of the Gauls; influenced by it,
the Insubrian chiefs hastened to supply him with provisions and troops. Hardly had the Carthaginians
arrived in sight of the Roman camp at Placentia, when a large body of the Gaulish contingent
revolted from Scipio, and contrived, though much reduced in numbers, to cut their way through
in spite of all opposition, and join Hannibal. The famous battle of the Trebia--the first of
those great victories which have rendered immortal the genius of the Carthaginian chief--soon
followed; it at once decided the course of Cisalpine Gaul. Its immediate and ultimate effects
on the power and operations of Hannibal are well developed by our author:--

     "The fortune of Hannibal was then consolidated; more than 60,000
     Boians, Insubrians, and Ligures flocked in a few days to his
     standards, and raised his forces to 100,000 men. With such a
     disproportion between the nucleus of the Carthaginian army and its
     auxiliaries, Hannibal was in reality but a Gaulish chief; and if,
     in the moments of danger, he had no cause to repent his new
     situation, more than once, nevertheless, he cursed with bitterness
     its inconveniences. Nothing could equal the courage and devotion of
     the Gaulish soldier in the dangers of the battle-field; but under
     the tent he had neither the habit nor the taste of military
     subordination. The lofty conceptions of Hannibal surpassed his
     comprehension; he could not understand war, unless such as he
     himself carried it on--as a bold and rapid plundering excursion, of
     which the present moment reaped the whole advantage. He would have
     wished to march instantly on Rome, or at least to pass the winter
     in some of the allied or subject provinces--in Etruria or in
     Umbria--there to live at discretion in pillage and license. Did
     Hannibal represent that it was necessary to spare the provinces in
     order to gain them over to the common cause, the Cisalpines broke
     forth into murmurs; the combinations of prudence and genius
     appeared in their eyes but a vile pretext to deprive them of the
     advantages which they had legitimately won."--(I. 292-293.)

We cannot follow the steps of the great conqueror in his memorable campaigns--in his fatal
march over the fens of Etruria, or through the glorious field of Thrasymene. But the share
which the Gauls had in the mighty victory of Cannæ, and the change of the seat of war, with
the results which followed from it, are of such importance, and the remarks made upon them
by M. Thierry are so just, that we shall give the whole of his account of this event at full
length:--

     "From the field of Thrasymene Hannibal passed into southern Italy,
     and gave battle a third time to the Romans, near the village of
     Cannæ, on the banks of the Aufidus, now called the Offanto. He had
     then under his banners 40,000 infantry and 10,000 cavalry; and of
     these 50,000 combatants, at least 30,000 were Gauls. In his order
     of battle, he placed their cavalry on the right wing, and in the
     centre their infantry, whom he united to the Spanish infantry, and
     whom he commanded in person: the Gaulish foot, as was their custom
     on all occasions when they were determined to conquer or die, threw
     off their tunic and sagum, and fought naked from their waist
     upwards, armed with their long and pointless sabres. They commenced
     the action; and their cavalry and that of the Numidians terminated
     it. We know how dreadful the carnage was in that celebrated
     battle--the most glorious of the victories of Hannibal--the most
     disastrous of the defeat of Rome. When the Carthaginian general,
     moved with pity, called to his soldiers 'to halt, and to spare the
     vanquished,' without doubt the Gauls, bloodthirsty in the
     destruction of their mortal enemies, carried to that butchery more
     than the ordinary irritation of wars, the satisfaction of a
     vengeance ardently wished for, and long deferred. There 70,000
     Romans perished; the loss on the side of the conquerors was 5500,
     of which 4000 were Gauls. Out of 60,000 Gauls, whom Hannibal had
     enumerated around him after the combat of the Trebia, 25,000 only
     remained; battle, sickness, above all, the fatal passage over the
     marshes of Etruria, had cut off all the rest; for up to this period
     they had supported almost exclusively the weight of the war. The
     victory of Cannæ brought to the Carthaginians other auxiliaries; a
     crowd of men from Campania, Lucania, Brutium, and Apulia, filled
     his camp; but it was not that warlike race which he formerly
     recruited on the banks of the Po. Cannæ was the term of his
     success; and assuredly the fault ought not to be imputed to his
     genius, more admirable even in adverse than in good fortune--his
     army only had changed. For two thousand years history has accused
     him with bitterness for his inaction after the battle of Aufidus,
     and for his delay at Capua; perhaps it might reproach him more
     justly for having removed from the north of Italy, and for having
     allowed his communications with the soldiers who had conquered
     under him at Thrasymene and Cannæ, to be cut off. Rome perceived
     the fault of Hannibal, and hastened to profit by it. Two armies in
     échelon, the one to the north, and the other to the south,
     intercepted the communication between the Cisalpines and Magna
     Græcia. That of the north, by its incursions and by its threatening
     attitude, occupied the Gauls at their own hearths, whilst the
     second made head against the Carthaginians."--(I. 297-300.)

It has been said by the most renowned conqueror of modern times, that, give him but the Gallic
infantry and the Mameluke cavalry, and he would subdue the world. And it cannot fail to strike
the attentive reader with astonishment, to learn that the severest blow ever given to the power
of Rome was inflicted by the Gaulish foot and the Numidian horse. It is curious, as exemplifying
the unchanging characters of race, to observe that the greatest general of antiquity triumphed
at the head of an army, composed of those very nations whom Napoleon, after the lapse of two
thousand years, declared best fitted to pursue the blood-stained paths of military greatness.

The efforts of the Gauls did not cease with the battle of Cannæ; they defeated an army under
Posthumius, which invaded their territory. When Hasdrubal led his ill-fated expedition to strew
their bodies on the Italian plains, he was accompanied by large bands of those brave adventurers;
and when Carthage, making a last effort to succour her general, disembarked 14,000 men under
the command of Mago, Hannibal's brother, at Genoa, numerous bodies of Gauls flocked to his
standards. And this general, though unable to effect his junction with Hannibal, yet maintained
his ground for ten years, till at last, defeated in the territory of the Insubrians, he retired
to Genoa. There he received orders to return to the defence of Africa:--

     "His brother also, recalled by the Carthaginian senate, was obliged
     to embark at the other extremity of Italy. The Gaulish and Ligurian
     soldiers, who had faithfully served Hannibal during seventeen
     years, abandoned him not in his days of misfortune; re-united to
     their compatriots who had followed Mago, they formed still a third
     part of the Carthaginian army at Zama, in the celebrated day which
     terminated that long war to the advantage of the Romans, and
     displayed to the world the genius of Hannibal humbled before the
     fortune of Scipio. The ferocity with which the Gauls fought has
     been recorded by the historian: 'They showed themselves,' says
     Titus Livy, 'inflamed with that inborn hate against the Roman
     people, peculiar to their race.'"--(I. 310-311.)

The war in Cisalpine Gaul did not cease with the departure of Hannibal. Under the orders of
Carthaginian officer, the Gauls again took the field--Placentia fell beneath their arms; but
they received a severe defeat from L. Furius, in the year 200 B.C., when the Carthaginian general
Amilcar perished. From this period till the year 191 B.C., the Gaulish nations were involved
in a constant succession of wars, in which, though occasionally victorious, they were upon
the whole unsuccessful. Exposed to the incessant incursions of the Romans, their strength gradually
wasted away; each year left them in a state more exhausted and unfit to renew the war than
the preceding. Nation after nation laid down their arms in despair, till at last the Boian
confederacy stood alone in its resistance of a foreign yoke; but their ravaged lands and reduced
numbers were unequal to the struggle, and when, in the year 190 B.C., the Roman armies advanced
into the heart of their exhausted territory, the few remaining inhabitants determined to abandon
the land of their birth, and to seek, amidst ruder nations, and beneath a more ungenial sky,
for that liberty in defence of which their fathers had so often bled. Accordingly, the wreck
of a hundred and twelve Boian tribes, rising en masse, united, and wending their weary steps
over the snow-clad summits of the Alps, and through the pathless forests of Germany, they found
at last, on the banks of the distant Danube, a resting-place far removed from the hated name
of Rome.

All resistance from Cisalpine Gaul now ceased. Occasionally, indeed, a few tribes from the
Transalpine would cross the Alps and descend into Italy, but they could not withstand the shock
of the legions. The conquered territory was declared a Roman province, which it ever afterwards
remained.

We have not space to follow M. Thierry in his account of the progress and fall of that strange
Gaulish kingdom of Galatia. From the year 241 to the year 190 B.C., it maintained its independence
unshaken, amidst the degenerate sons of Greece and the effeminate Asiatics. But the Roman power,
beneath which the Gaulish race was ever doomed to bend, overtook them even amidst the mountains
of Asia Minor. The Galatians had furnished some troops to Antiochus the Great, and then, for
the first time, they came in contact with the eagle of the Capitol. The first encounter is
thus alluded to by our author:--

     "The Romans had annihilated, at Magnesia, the Asiatic and Greek
     forces: yet the conquest of the country appeared to them still
     incomplete. They had encountered, beneath the banners of Antiochus,
     some bands of a force less easily conquered than the Syrians or the
     Phrygians: by the armour, by the lofty stature, by the yellow or
     reddish locks, by the war-cry, by the rattling clash of arms, by
     the dauntless valour above all, the legions had easily recognised
     that old enemy of Rome whom they had been brought up to fear.
     Before deciding any thing as to the lot of the vanquished, the
     Roman generals then determined to carry the war into Galatia."--(I.
     360-361.)

Accordingly, in the spring of 189 B.C., Cn. Manlius, with 22,000 legionaries and an auxiliary
army furnished by the King of Pergamus, invaded Galatia: at his approach the Tolistoboies and
Tectosages intrenched themselves upon Mount Olympus, and the Trocmes upon Mount Megalon, and
there awaited the attack. The consul first advanced to Mount Olympus. He led his troops to
attack the Gaulish position in three columns; the principal column, under his own orders, was
to advance on the Gauls in front, the other two were to try and turn their position on either
flank. The column which he led first engaged.

     "His velites advanced in front of the standards, with the Cretan
     archers of Attalus, the slingers, and the corps of Trulles and of
     the Thracians. The infantry of the legions followed with slow
     steps, as the steepness of the declivity rendered necessary,
     sheltered beneath their bucklers, so as to avoid stones and arrows.
     At a considerable distance the combat began with discharges of
     arrows, and at first with equal success. The Gauls had the
     advantage in position, the Romans in the number and variety of
     their arms. The action continued, the equality no longer remained.
     The narrow and flat bucklers of the Gauls protected them
     insufficiently: soon having expended their darts and javelins, they
     found themselves altogether disarmed: for at that distance their
     sabres were useless. As they had made no selection of flints and
     stones beforehand, they seized the first which chance threw in
     their way, which were for the most part too large to be easily
     wielded, or for inexperienced arms to throw with effect. The
     Romans, meanwhile, poured down upon them a murderous hail of
     arrows, javelins, and leaden balls, which wounded them, without
     their having any possibility of avoiding the approach. * * * * A
     great number had bit the dust, others adopted the course of rushing
     right on the enemy, and they, at least, did not perish unavenged.
     It was the corps of the Roman velites who did them most harm.
     These velites carried on their left arm a buckler three feet in
     size, in their right hand javelins, which they threw from afar, at
     their girdle a Spanish sword; when it was necessary to engage in
     close contact, they transferred their javelins to the left hand,
     and drew their sword. Few Gauls now remained on foot: seeing then
     the legions advance to the charge, they fled precipitately to their
     camp, which the alarm of the multitude of women, children and old
     men who were shut up within it, already filled with tumult and
     confusion."--(I. 373-376.)

The other two columns had, from the difficult nature of the ground, been unable to make any
progress. Manlius now led on his legionaries to assault the intrenchment, which they carried
at the sword's point. A few days after this victory, Manlius advanced with his triumphant army
to attack the Trocmes, who were intrenched on Mount Megalon. This battle resembled much, both
in its progress and in its termination, the one which preceded it. The Trocmes were driven
with slaughter from the field, and their camp taken. Dispirited by this double defeat, the
Galatians, who had rallied their scattered forces behind the Halys, sued for peace. The Romans,
desiring rather to conciliate than to irritate this warlike people, merely exacted that they
should surrender the land which they had taken from the allies of Rome, and that they should
give up their wandering and predatory habits, so injurious to all their neighbours. Under the
influence of the forced peace in which the subjection of Asia to the Romans kept the Galatians,
their manners rapidly changed. Asiatic luxury took the place of northern barbarity; the worship
of the national gods was abandoned, and the idols of the stranger were substituted in their
room; the coarse garments of ancient days, gave place to vestments of purple and gold: yet
a little while, and the loss of national manners was followed by the loss of political privileges;
the magistracies, formerly elective, now became hereditary; the families who usurped this privilege
formed, in course of time, a bright and all-powerful aristocracy. Ambition limited the number
of these magistracies; from twelve they were reduced to four; at last they were centred in
a single hand: so that when Galatia was united as a province to the Roman empire, it was governed
by a hereditary king. Yet, amidst this usurpation of the sovereign power, the national council
of the Three Hundred still continued to exist, and assist in the government of the state.

During twenty years peace subsisted between the Galatians and their Asiatic neighbours. At
the end of that period, however, a war broke out, and pillaging bands once more began to traverse
the plains of Asia Minor; when Rome interposed, and by her mediation peace was restored. Mithridates,
uniting beneath his sway all the powers of the East, drove back for a while the Roman eagles,
and seemed about to restore their ancient glory to the Asiatics. The Galatians joined with
him; but their fidelity became suspected, and he seized upon sixty of their nobles as hostages.
Enraged at this treatment, they formed a plot to assassinate him; it was frustrated, and the
conspirators were almost all treacherously put to death at a banquet. His troops then advancing,
took possession of Galatia, which was governed by one of his officers with insolence and oppression
for twelve years. At last a revolt broke out; his armies were driven from the country; Galatia
was once more free. The defeat of Mithridates by the Roman arms ensured their independence
for a short time; but the rest of Asia was now subject to the Romans. Surrounded, enveloped
on all sides by their power, Galatia yielded at last, and was reduced to the form of a Roman
province in the time of Augustus.

Here M. Thierry ends the first part of his History of the Gauls; and thus far we have followed
him step by step, because we considered this both the least known and the most interesting
portion of Gaulish history. The two periods which follow are more familiar to historical readers:
because, during them, Rome was the great enemy of the Gauls; and if she has often palliated
her defeats, she has at least never failed to chronicle her victories. Henceforth, therefore,
we shall no longer attempt to follow the thread of his narrative. The victories of Marius,
the campaigns of Cæsar, stand in no need of our attention being directed to them, as to the
wars of the Brenn in Greece, or the conquests of the horde in Asia Minor. Here we take leave
of the Gaul as the conquering nomad; we have seen him wandering through the land of the stranger
with fire and sword; but the hour of vengeance has now come, and we shall see him bleed in
vain on his native soil for that liberty of which he had so often deprived others.

M. Thierry opens his history of the second period with an exceedingly interesting account of
the state of Gaul during the second and third centuries before our era. Gaul was then inhabited
by three distinct families or races. By the Iberian family--divided into the Aquitains and
the Ligures. By the Gaulish family--divided into the Gauls, the Kimry, and the Belgians. And
by the Ionian-Greek family, or the inhabitants of the powerful and flourishing maritime and
commercial state of Massalia. The Iberian and Ionian-Greeks, families occupying comparatively
but a small portion of Gaul, need not detain us. With the Gauls we have more to do. Our author
gives the following account of the way in which their territory was divided amongst the three
different bands of this family:--

     "A line which, setting out from the mouth of the Tann, follows the
     course of that river, then that of the Rhone, the Iser, the Alps,
     the Rhine, the Vosges, the Ædnian hills, the Loire, the Vienne, and
     comes at last to rejoin the Garonne, by turning the plateau of
     Arvernia: that line would nearly circumscribe the possessions of
     the Gallic race. The territory situated to the east of that limit
     belonged to the race of the Kimry; it was in time divided into two
     portions by the line of the Seine and the Marne, the one northern
     and the other southern. To the south, between the Seine and the
     Garonne, lived the Kimry of the first invasion, intermingled with
     Gallic blood, or the Gallo-Kimry. To the north, between the Seine
     and the Rhine, the Kimry of the second invasion, or Belgians. The
     Gauls numbered twenty-two nations; the Gallo-Kimry, seventeen; and
     the Belgians, twenty-three. These sixty-two nations were subdivided
     into many hundred tribes."--(I. 28.)

He then enters into a long and most interesting description of the domestic manners, and political
and religious institutions, of the Gauls.

After having traced the Gaul for so long in the field, we love to follow him into his cabin--to
observe his appearance, his pursuits, his habits--to mark the manly figure, the fair complexion,
the flowing yellow locks, the glittering helmet surmounted with the antlers of the stag, the
buckler covered with all the colours of the rainbow, the polished cuirass flashing back the
rays of the morning sun, the heavy sabre hanging from the gold-bespangled belt, the precious
necklace, the rich armlets, the bright and variegated hues of the martial sagum or mantle,
of the noble Gaulish warrior. We follow him as he turns away from his clay-built mansion, and,
regardless of the silent tears and entreating looks of his submissive, perhaps ill-used wife,
hurries into the noise and excitement of the battle-field. Observe the wild frenzy that there
seems to seize him, as he rushes with dauntless courage on the bristling phalanx of his enemies;
as, amidst the clouds of dust which float overhead, and the horrid cries which resound on all
sides, he tears and widens with savage ferocity the fearful gash he has just received; as,
a moment after, overcoming in personal conflict yon stalwart chief, he decapitates, with one
blow of his heavy sabre, the yet palpitating corpse, and waves the gory head with demoniac
triumph in the air; and as he returns home, yet reeking with blood and intoxicated with victory,
and suspends above his threshold the ghastly trophy. Look again--the scene is changed--the
glittering arms are flung aside. With his mantle floating in the breeze, his light spear quivering
in his hand, he plunges into the pathless forest; with fearless step he pursues his way through
the leafy shade, and traverses the treacherous surface of the morass. Beneath yon giant oak
he has encountered the fiercest inhabitant of those solitudes--the wild bull; but it has fallen
beneath his javelin, which yet protrudes from it bushy neck, and, as it lies struggling on
the greensward, making the wood ring again with its bellowings, his dagger is raised to give
it the final stroke.--Observe him once more in the council of his nation. The warriors stand
in an attentive circle leaning on their arms; he has risen to address them; his action is animated,
his words are vehement; the polished accents, the finished periods of the Greek, flow not from
his lips, but there is eagerness in his eye, there is earnestness in his speech, his language
is figurative in the extreme, a thousand picturesque and striking images illustrate his meaning;
his metaphors, drawn from the battle and the chase, thrill to the bosom of all his listeners;
and the clash and clang of their arms, amidst which he sits down, proclaims alike their assent
to his proposition and their admiration of his eloquence. It is amidst scenes like these that
we love to follow the Gaul, to picture to ourselves an old race and an old civilization, which
combined in so strange a way the greatness and the savageness, the heroism in danger and weakness
under temptation, of primeval and half-civilized man.

To comprehend clearly the internal and external history of the Gauls, we must understand the
political condition of their country. This is unfolded in a clear and masterly manner by our
author, in the following passage:--

     "In Gaul, two privileged orders ruled the rest of the people--the
     elective order of the priests, who recruited themselves
     indiscriminately from all ranks, and the hereditary order of the
     nobles or knights. This latter was composed of the ancient royal
     families of the tribes, and of those men who had been recently
     ennobled, either by war or by the influence of riches. The
     multitudes were divided into two classes--the people of the
     country, and the people of the town. The first formed the tribes or
     the clans of the noble families. The client belonged to his patron,
     whose domains he cultivated, whose standard he followed in war,
     under whom he was a member of a little patriarchal aristocracy; his
     duty was to defend him to the death from, and against all: to
     abandon his patron in circumstances of danger, passed for the
     consummation of disgrace, and even for a crime. The people of the
     towns, from their situation, removed from the influence of the old
     hierarchy of the tribes, enjoyed greater liberty, and fortunately
     found themselves in a situation to maintain and to defend it.
     Beneath the mass of the people came the slaves, who do not appear
     to have been very numerous. The two privileged orders caused the
     yoke of their despotism to weigh, turn by turn, upon Gaul. Turn by
     turn they exercised absolute authority, and lost it by a series of
     political revolutions. The history of the government of the Gauls
     offers, then, three very distinct periods: that of the reign of the
     priests, or of the theocracy--that of the reign of the chiefs of
     the tribes, or of the military aristocracy--lastly, that of the
     popular constitutions, founded on the principle of election, and on
     the will of the majority. The epoch which we are about to treat of,
     accomplished that last and great revolution; and popular
     constitutions, although still ill assured, at last ruled over all
     Gaul at the commencement of the first age."--(II. 71-73.)

M. Thierry recognises in the Gauls the traces of two distinct religions. He says--

     "When we examine attentively the character of the facts relative to
     the religious belief of the Gauls, we are led to recognise two
     systems of ideas, two bodies of symbols and superstitions
     altogether distinct--in a word, two religions: the one altogether
     sensible, derived from the adoration of natural phenomena, and by
     its forms, as well as by its literal development, reminding us of
     the polytheism of the Greeks; the other founded upon a material
     pantheism, metaphysical, mysterious, sacerdotal, and presenting the
     most astonishing conformity with the religions of the East. That
     last has received the name of druidism, from the druids who were
     its founders and priests. We shall give to the first the name of
     the Gaulish polytheism."--(II. 73-74.)

Thierry thinks that this polytheism originally prevailed amongst the Gauls, but that the Kimry
introduced druidism, which soon became the dominant religion over the whole of Gaul, though
the original polytheism ingrafted upon it more or less, in different places, some of its tenets
and ceremonies. The great seat of the religion of the druids was Armorika, and, above all,
Britain; there existed the most powerful of their sacerdotal colleges--there were celebrated
the most secret of their mysteries.

It is wondrous thing, that religion of the ancient druids! A solemn mystery enshrouds it--all
the efforts of modern science cannot lift the veil. When we look on yon circle of stones which,
grey with the lapse of ages, stands in lonely majesty upon the dreary moor, near which no sound
is ever heard, save the distant and sullen roar of the ocean, as it breaks in sheets of foam
on the rock-bound coast--the fitful cry of curlew, as it wings over them its solitary way--or
the occasional low moaning of the wind, as, stealing through amidst the rocks, it seems to
pour forth a mournful dirge for the shades of departed greatness:--when we look on a scene
like this, we have before our gaze all that is known of these men of the olden time. Their
blood-stained rites, their solemn mysteries, are forgotten; but their simple temples still
stand imperishable as the God to whom they were erected. From the study of the ancient authors
little or no information can be gleaned; a few descriptions of their bloody sacrifices, an
account of some of their more public ceremonials, is all that they have handed down to us.
But the real nature of their religion is unknown: more of its spirit is taught to us by those
silent stones than by all other accounts put together. The choice of the situations for those
sacred monuments amidst the melancholy waste, or buried deep in the recesses of some vast forest,
where the wide-spreading branches of their sacred tree (the oak) casts its deep shadows over
the consecrated spot, with no canopy save the heavens, shows the dark and gloomy spirit of
their faith. They worshipped the God of the thunder-storm, not the God of peace; and it was
amidst the thunder-storm that their horrid rites appeared most horrid. When, illuminated by
the lurid glare of the lightning, the gigantic osier figure filled with human beings sank into
the flames--when the shouts of the multitude who stood in a dense circle around the spot, the
frenzied chants of the druids, and the despairing shrieks of the dying victims, were drowned
in the sullen roar of the thunder--then must the fearful nature of their creed have stood forth
in all its horrors. Yet with all this, there was a sort of grandeur in the seclusion and simplicity
of their worship. All was not blood; and though they bowed down to the Unknown God in an erring
and mistaken spirit, yet must their conception of him been fine. The God of nature and the
wilderness--the God of the tempest and the storm--was a nobler idea than the immortalized humanities
of Greek and Roman mythology, though both had wandered equally far from the true God of Mercy
and of Peace.

When Massalia was hard pressed by two Gaulish nations, she summoned, in an evil hour, Rome
to her aid. By the Roman arms her assailants were repelled, but these allies maintained their
footing in the country. They soon subdued Liguria, and founded the town of Aquæ Sextiæ; the
Gaulish nation of the Ædues united with the strangers; a defensive league entered into by the
Allobroges and the Arvernes to drive them from their shores, was defeated. The territory acquired
by these victories was organized into a Transalpine province; this province gradually went
on increasing; its communications with Italy were assured, by the Romans obtaining possession
of the passes of the Alps. In the year 118 B.C., the first Roman colony in Gaul was founded
at Narbonne; hither, in course of time, came the great maritime commerce which had raised Massalia
to her greatness; hither, too, flowed much of the internal traffic of Gaul. The ships of Massalia
lay rotting in her harbours, her extensive quays lost their busy multitudes. In the fall of
her naval power, in the loss of her commercial policy, she received a just reward for having
wafted to her shores, and assisted with her forces, the stranger who was destined to rule over
the Gaulish people. The organization of the province was completed; and from Narbonne, Roman
emissaries issuing forth, laboured, by augmenting the quarrels and dissensions of the native
tribes, to afford an opportunity for her to extend the limits of the empire.

Driven from the shores of the Baltic by an inroad of the ocean, the two tribes of the Kimry
and the Teutones uniting, precipitated themselves, to the number of 300,000 fighting men, upon
the more southern countries. In the course of their wanderings they came upon the Roman province
of Norica, which they laid waste with fire and sword, and where they defeated the consul, Papirius
Carbon, with great loss. Without taking advantage of this opportunity to enter Italy, which
now lay open to their attack, they entered the country of the Helvetii, where they were joined
by the tribes of that people, the Ambrones, the Tigurines, and the Teutones; descending now
upon Gaul like a devastating torrent, they wasted it as far as the Belgian frontier; here,
however, the resistance of the inhabitants prevented them from advancing further. Turning now
upon the Roman province of Transalpine Gaul, they defeated three Roman armies under Silanus,
Cassius, and Scaurus; and here they were joined by that portion of the Tectosages who had formerly
returned from the disastrous invasion of Greece. The Roman generals, Cepio and Manlius, who
had advanced against them, were utterly routed, and great part of the province laid waste.
From hence the Kimry penetrated into Spain, where they remained for two years, pillaging and
wasting the country, till, having received a check from the Celtiberians, they repassed the
Pyrenees, and united with their confederated in the plains of Gaul. The united bands now prepared
to march upon Italy; this they did in two divisions: one, consisting of the Kimry and the Tigurines,
directed its steps through Helvetia and Norica and by the Tridentine Alps; while the other,
consisting of the Ambrones and the Teutones, moved on the route which leads to Italy by the
Maritime Alps: both divisions had appointed a common rendezvous on the banks of the Po.

Rome was not unprepared for this invasion; to meet it, Marius had been recalled from his command
in Africa, and invested with the consular power. When the division of the Ambrones and the
Teutones reached the Maritime Alps, they found that general encamped in a position which lay
directly in their line of march. Assaulted for three successive days, the Romans maintained
themselves in their intrenchments: at last the Gauls, giving up the attempt to force them,
passed on and soon reached Aquæ Sextiæ, whither they were followed by Marius. Marius encamped
on a hill opposite the quarter of the Ambrones; between them flowed a river. The sutlers of
the Roman army having descended to obtain water, encountered, in the bed of the torrent, some
Gauls. A skirmish began; the Ambrones flocked in great numbers to support their comrades; soon
they assembled their whole force and advanced upon the Romans. In crossing the stream they
were vigorously opposed by the auxiliaries. Marius, seeing the favourable opportunity, led
down his legions to the attack. Unable to withstand the shock, the Ambrones were driven back
with great loss; the river ran red with their blood; the plain was covered with fugitives;
and their routed forces halted not till they reached the neighbouring quarter of the Teutones.
In their camp the Romans experienced more resistance from the women, who, rather than fall
into the hands of their enemies, flung themselves on the hostile ranks, or perished by their
own hands. Marius drew off his troops before night, and retreated to his former position on
the hill. The next night he sent round 3000 men to occupy a wood in the rear of the position
of the Teutones. The following morning he drew out his legions in battle array upon the slope
of the hill, and sent forward his cavalry to skirmish with the enemy, and induce them to engage
with him. They fell into the snare: pursuing his cavalry, they advanced to the river's edge,
and there, in an evil hour, crossed it and attacked the Roman army. The contest which ensued
was long and desperate; the Gauls had the advantage in numbers, the Romans in discipline and
position. But while victory still hung in the balance, the 3000 Romans, issuing forth from
their ambuscade, fell upon the rear of the Teutones: this produced irremediable confusion in
the ranks of the Gauls. The Romans redoubled the energy of their attack, and the victory was
no longer doubtful. Many perished in the field, more in the pursuit; the remainder were cut
off in detail by the peasants, who assailed them on all sides.

Meanwhile the other divisions of the Gauls, consisting of the Kimry and the Tigurines, after
traversing Helvetia and Norica, arrived at the Tridentine passes of the Alps at the end of
winter. To keep possession of these passes the Tigurines halted upon the summits of the ridge,
while the Kimry, continuing their march, descended into the valley of the Adige. On their approach
the consul Catulus, who was charged with the defence of this part of Italy, retreated behind
the Adige; and when the Gauls advanced to attack him, his legions were seized with such a panic,
that, abandoning their camp, they fled, and halted not till they had placed the Po between
themselves and the enemy. The Kimry now spread themselves over the whole territory beyond the
Po, and occupied the land without opposition: here they determined to await the arrival of
the other column. This delay saved Italy; for it afforded time for Marius and his army to cross
the Alps, and effect a junction with Catulus and his troops. In the July of 101 B.C., Marius
and Catulus advanced to meet the Kimry on the banks of the Po. On the 30th of July the hostile
armies met to decide the fate of Italy in the Campus Ranolius. The battle which ensued was
long and bloody; but overcome by the heat of the day and the immense clouds of dust, and exposed
by their imperfect defensive armour to all the strokes of the enemy, the Kimry were in the
end totally defeated. When the Romans, in the course of the pursuit, came to their camp, the
same scene occurred as that which took place at Aquæ Sextiæ; as the women, after defending
themselves for some time, at last put an end to their existence with their own hands. On receiving
news of this defeat, the Tigurines abandoned the passes of the Alps, and retreated to their
native country, Helvetia. Thus ended the last invasion of Italy by the Gauls. Rome acknowledged
the danger she had run by the gratitude she displayed to Marius, who received the title of
the third Romulus, and his triumph was celebrated with all the enthusiasm of a grateful country.

We pass in silence over the various occurrences in Gaul till we come to the year 58 B.C. This
was the year when Cæsar commenced his career of victory. His first achievement was the defeat
of the Helvetii, who, rising en masse, wished to abandon their sterile country, and gain by
the sword a more fertile land. He next advanced against Ariovistus and his Germans, who were
ravaging with fire and sword the eastern portions of Gaul: these he likewise totally routed--thus
delivering the inhabitants from a withering scourge. But their joy at this event was soon changed
into sadness, when they saw that the Romans had no intention of retreating from their territory.
Establishing himself amongst the Sequanes, Cæsar levied contributions and collected provisions
from all the neighbouring nations. Their discontent soon burst forth; they flew to arms, and
prepared to make a desperate fight in defence of their liberties. We have no room to follow
the Roman through his various campaigns; to trace the long and gallant stand made by the Gauls
in defence of their native land; or the great and admirable genius of Cæsar, nowhere displayed
so greatly as in his Gaulish campaigns, though perfidy sometimes tainted his councils, and
torrents of innocent blood too often stained his arms. Suffice it to say, that after three
campaigns, the north and west had submitted to his forces, and he had made his first descent
on the British shores. In his fourth campaign he undertook his second expedition against Britain,
and subdued some more of the continental tribes. But a general movement now took place over
nearly the whole of Gaul against the Romans, who at first suffered some severe checks; but
the military skill of Cæsar, in the course of a fifth campaign, again triumphed. Though so
often vanquished, these brave people were not yet subdued. A new league was entered into by
their cities; the war broke out afresh; and an able general, Vercingeto-rix, now directed their
movements. It was during the course of his sixth campaign, which now followed, that Cæsar ran
the greatest danger and achieved the greatest triumphs. The surprise of Genatum, the capture
of Avaricum, seemed at first to promise a speedy victory to his arms; but a repulse which he
suffered before the walls of Geronia was the signal for the whole of Gaul to unite with the
insurgents. A victory which he gained over Vercingeto-rix soon afterwards, checked for the
moment, but did not dispirit, the Gauls; and the whole weight of the war was soon collected
around the ramparts of Alexia. Both parties felt that the contest which would now ensue must
decide the fate of the campaign, and both made the most strenuous exertions to prepare for
it. The gigantic lines of Cæsar were soon surrounded by the whole force of the enemy, and a
combined attack was made upon them both from within and without. Great and imminent was the
peril; but the steadiness of the legions, and the gallantry of their chief, surmounted it,
and the banners of Rome finally waved triumphant over the hard-fought field. The fruits of
this victory were immense. Alexia capitulated; the Gaulish nations who had been most active
in the war submitted; and Vercingeto-rix was given up to the conquerors. Yet was a great part
of the country still unsubdued; and when in the ensuing year, B.C. 51, Cæsar took the field
in his seventh and last campaign in this country, he found a powerful and numerous confederacy
in arms. Taught by the experience of the past, they no longer attempted to unite their whole
forces and defeat him in general engagements, but endeavoured to exhaust his resources, and
wear out his troops by a protracted defensive warfare. They fortified and garrisoned their
towns so as to impose on him the necessity of innumerable sieges; whilst the country, on his
line of march, was laid waste, and his troops were harassed by the incessant attacks of their
skirmishers. But Cæsar overcame all difficulties: if they met him in battle, they were vanquished;
if they retreated to their fortifications, they were driven from them by escalade; if they
took refuge in their marshes, he pursued and overtook them even there. Dispirited by these
constant defeats, the Gauls, for the last time, laid down their arms. The conquered territory
was organized as a new province of the Roman empire, and Cæsar laboured to attach it to his
person by the lenity and moderation of his government. In this he succeeded; nor had he ever
reason to repent of having done so; for, during the civil wars which raised him to the imperial
power, he received no inconsiderable assistance from the courage and devotion of its inhabitants.
Here, as a free people, ends the history of the Gauls. We shall not follow M. Thierry in his
account of the last period of their annals, which embraces the subjugation of the Britons;
the organization of Gaul into a subject province; the gradual loss of their nationality by
its inhabitants; the spread of Roman manners and Roman civilization amongst them; their transition
from an independent people to an integral part of the Roman empire. Here we take leave of them:
their arms have just dropped from their hands; liberty has just fled from their shores; the
fetters of conquest sit strangely on their free-born limbs; they have not yet learned the vices
of a subject race: after having followed them in their career of conquest, and through the
hard-fought struggle in their native land, we love not to dwell on the crushing of their haughty
spirit.

Throughout the whole of his history, Thierry sustains the interest well; but nowhere is his
narrative more animated than in his account of the wars of Cæsar; and no wonder, for a nobler
field could not lie before him. His book is altogether one of the most curious and interesting
which we possess on the history of ancient times. A great work it cannot be called. M. Thierry
is more a man of talent than of genius; and accordingly, in his work, we are more struck with
the interest of his narrative than with the profoundness of his reflections: it contains not
the philosophy of Guizot, nor the originality of Michelet, yet it is a valuable addition to
modern literature. Would that we saw a few more such in our own country!

FOOTNOTES:

{A} Histoire des Gaulois, par M. AMADÉE THIERRY. 3 tomes. Paris: 1835.

THE WITCHFINDER.

CONCLUSION.

At the upper end of the large Gothic room, forming the interior of the town-hall of Hammelburg,
which was formally prepared as a court of trial, sat upon a raised part of the flooring in
his chair of state, the Ober-Amtmann; before him were placed, at a velvet-behung table, his
schreibers or secretaries; beside him sat, upon a low cushioned stool, his daughter, the fair
Fraulein Bertha, surrounded by her tirewomen, who remained standing behind her.

The presence of the young Fraulein was of rare occurrence upon occasions of judicial ceremony
in the old town-hall. But a solemn appeal to her testimony had been made by the witchfinder;
and her father, whose sense of justice considered that a matter of accusation of so heavy and
serious a nature as that of witchcraft, should be investigated in all its bearings, had commanded
her presence. Her heart, full of the purest milk of human kindness, revolted, however, from
witnessing the progress of such terrible proceedings--the justice of which her simple mind,
tutored according to the dark prejudices of the age, never once doubted, but which curdled
her blood with horror. And she sat pale and sad, with downcast eyes, scarcely daring to raise
them upon the crowd that filled the hall, much less upon the most conspicuous object in the
scene before her--the unhappy being against whom all curses, all evil feelings, all insane
desires of blood and death, were then directed. Perhaps there was another reason also, which,
almost unconsciously, caused her to keep her eyes fixed upon the earth; perhaps she feared
that they might meet two other mild blue eyes, the expression of which was that of a deep--far
too deep--an interest; for it caused her heart to beat, and her spirit to be troubled; and
her bosom to heave and sigh, she knew not wherefore: unless, indeed, she were, in truth, bewitched.

In the centre of the hall was placed the accused woman. She was seated upon a rude three-legged
stool, which was firmly fixed upon a raised flooring, elevated about three feet from the ground--her
face turned towards her judge. A slight chain passed round the middle of her body, and fastened
her down to her seat. She was still attired in the dark hood and cloak which had been her customary
dress, and sat, with head bent downwards, and her hands clasped languidly upon her knees, as
if resigned, in the bitterness of her despair, to meet the cruel fate that awaited her.

Below, was a compact and turbulent crowd of the lower orders of the town, which was with difficulty
kept, by the pikemen, within the limits assigned to it; and which, from time to time, let forth
low howls against the supposed sorceress, that increased, like the crescendo of distant thunder,
and then died away again.

On either side, towards the upper end, were ranged upon benches some of the more reputable
bourgeois and their spouses, all decked out in their finest braveries, as if they were present
at a theatrical show, or a church mystery: and, in truth, the representation about to be given,
was but little more in their own eyes, than a sort of show got up for their especial gratification.

Guarded by two pikemen, stood the cripple--his teeth set firmly, although his lips quivered
with excitement--his light eyes glaring fiercely around with an air of savage exultation, and
gleaming, as it were, with a pale phosphoric fire, from out of the dark ground of his swarthy
face and lank black hair. He moved restlessly and uneasily upon his withered limbs, clenching
by fits and starts his rosary from his bosom, and murmuring a hasty, and--to judge by the wildness
of his eyes, that showed how his mind was fixed upon far other thoughts--a vain prayer. He
rolled also his head and the upper part of his body continually backwards and forwards, like
a wild beast fretting in his cage.

Among the more prominent of the crowd, whom the favour of the guards had allowed to push beyond
the assigned limits, or whom reasons, connected with the trial, required to come forwards,
stood "Gentle Gottlob." His brow was overclouded with sadness, for he felt in how fearful a
pass this horrible denunciation had placed the woman whom he had so long regarded with attachment.
His mild blue eye was more melancholy than of wont; and yet, in spite of the trouble of his
mind, he was unable to withdraw his looks from that bright loadstone of his affections, whose
sadness seemed to sympathize with his own. At least, his heart would fain persuade him that
there was mysterious sympathy in their mutual dejection.

The principal personages concerned in the awful question at issue, occupied, thus, their respective
positions in the old town-hall; when, after a long and troubled pause, during which silence
was with difficulty obtained among the more tumultuous portion of the crowd at the lower end
of the hall, one of the schreibers rose, and read, from an interminable strip of parchment
which he held in his hand, the act of accusation against the female known under the popular
designation of "Mother Magdalena," as attainted of the foul crime of witchcraft, of the casting
of spells and malefices to the annoyance and destruction of her fellow-creatures, of consorting
with spirits of darkness, and of lascivious intercourse with the arch-fiend himself. For so
ran, at that time, the tenor of the accusation directed against the unhappy women suspected
of this imaginary crime.

The act of accusation was long, and richly interlarded with all those interminable complications
of legal phraseology, which seem ever, at all times, and in all nations, to have been the necessary
concomitants of all legal proceedings. The reading of the act, however, being at last terminated,
the town-beggar, commonly known by the familiar name of Black Claus the witchfinder, Schwartzer-Claus,
or Claus Schwartz, as he was usually designated among the people, was summoned to stand forward
as the denouncer of the aforesaid Magdalena, and to substantiate his charge.

Thus called upon, the cripple gave a start forward, like a lion let loose upon the gladiator's
arena, through the barred gates of which he has already sniffed the odour of blood; and then,
raising one of his long arms towards the stool of penitence, on which the criminal had been
placed, he again repeated, with an eagerness amounting to frenzy, his accusation against her.

As the witchfinder's hoarse voice was heard, a visible shudder passed through Magdalena's frame;
but she raised not her head, moved not a limb, spoke not; and it was only when called upon
by the chief schreiber to declare what she had to say against this accusation, that she lowly
murmured--"God's will be done!" but still with bowed head and downcast eyes.

In support of his denunciation, the cripple proceeded to state how he had watched the mysterious
female called "Mother Magdalena," and had observed that she never would enter any consecrated
building; how she would daily advance up the steps of the church, and then pause before the
threshold, as if she feared to pass it, and then throw herself down upon the stones before
the gate, where she would lie in strange convulsions, and at last return without having penetrated
into the building--an evident proof that the devil she served had forbidden her to put her
foot into any sacred dwelling, but had taught her, nevertheless, to approach near enough to
treat the awful mysteries of the Christian religion, performed within, with mockery and contempt.
To this accusation, which was confirmed by the acclamation of several persons present in the
court, Magdalena, when called upon to speak, proffered no denial; she contented herself with
the meek reply, that God alone knew the motives of the heart--that it was for him alone to
judge. The words were still uttered in the same low despairing tone, and without the slightest
movement of her head from its sunken posture.

The partially monastic dress, which was her habitual attire, was next brought forward against
her as a proof of her desire to treat with contempt the dress of the religious orders: and
to this absurd accusation, when asked why she had adopted a costume resembling that of the
holy sisterhood of penitents, the old woman still refused any reply.

The events of the previous afternoon, when she had been openly seen to throw her staff at the
Amtmann's unoffending daughter, and wound her on the neck, and then break into pieces the image
of the Holy Cross, were then recapitulated, as facts known upon the positive evidence of a
hundred witnesses.

These matters disposed of, the cripple proceeded to detail his own peculiar grievances, and
attributed, as he had done in the cases of the seven unhappy women who had already fallen victims
of his frantic delusion, the severe pains that had racked his poor distorted limbs to the malefic
charms of the sorceress. He related how, on the last night on which he had met Mother Magdalena,
he had found her sitting by the well in the market-place, casting a spell upon the spring,
and turning the waters to poison and blood--as a proof of which, he swore to have himself tasted
in the water of the bucket the taste of blood; how, in revenge for his warning to her to desist
from her foul practices, she had pointed up her finger to the sky, and immediately brought
down upon his head all the combined waters of heaven; how she had vanished from his sight in
this storm, he knew not how; and how immediately intense pains began to torture his joints,
until he became half frantic with agony, and had been compelled, by hideous visions, to quit
the shelter he had sought, in order to be exposed to all the peltings of the storm. He had
since suffered, he declared, the tortures of the damned in all his limbs, with occasional fits
of shuddering, sometimes of hot fever, sometimes of the most freezing cold, which were evidently
torments worked upon him by the powers of darkness. And as he spoke, the unhappy wretch was
again seized by one of his fearful fits of ague, during the convulsions of which the clamours
of the crowd grew terrible against the sorceress.

"What sayest thou to this accusation, woman?" said the chief schreiber. "Thou see'st how even
now he suffers."

"I have never willed evil to any man--not even to him," was Magdalena's only reply.

When recovered from his fit, the cripple again raised his head--it was to cast a glance at
the object of his denunciation, in which hatred and triumph were blended together, in one of
those occasional flashes of wildness which showed that there was a vein of insanity running
through all the frenzied zeal of the witchfinder. He had now arrived at a period of his narration,
when the most damning proof of all was to overwhelm the accused woman.

It was not without an unaffected expression of horror, that he went on to relate how he had
wandered around the building by the Watergate, in a lower cell of which he had discovered that
she dwelt, seeking in vain to find an entrance or a peep-hole, that might enable him to penetrate
into the interior; how he had, at last, dragged his crippled limbs up into a tree upon the
river's bank, overlooking an upper chamber of the building; how he had, at first, seen Mother
Magdalena in conversation with the young illuminator; how, upon his departure, she had flung
herself down upon her knees, and after spitting upon one of the books of holy writ upon the
table, had made wild gestures of conjuration, upon which the demon himself, attired in a dark
robe, had suddenly appeared by supernatural means, for he had not entered by the door; how
the foul hag had fallen down and worshipped the arch-fiend; and how, after a conference of
short duration, during which the woman at his feet appeared to supplicate with earnestness,
probably a prolongation of her wretched term of power to work ill, and afterwards kissed his
hand in token of adoration and submission, the demon had vanished as suddenly as he had appeared.

A low murmur of horror ran through the assembly, as Black Claus related this fearful story.
All eyes were turned upon the handmaiden of Satan. For a moment she had raised her head, horror-struck
at this interpretation of the interview she had in Gottlob's chamber with the stranger--for
a moment she seemed to have a desire to speak. But then, clasping her hands before her face,
she murmured--"O God! it cannot be! But this is terrible!"

Gottlob, who, during the whole accusation, had listened with much impatience, could now no
longer restrain his generous feelings. He started forward with the words--"No, no, it is impossible!
Speak, Magdalena--say how false is this man's tale."

"God knows that it is false!" said Magdalena.

"I knew it could not be. There could be no one with thee in my chamber, and he lies."

"No," replied Magdalena sadly, "thus far is true:--There was a stranger by me in your chamber."

"But who then?--speak, Magdalena," urged Gottlob. "Clear yourself of the foul stigma of his tale."

"I may not say!" replied the unhappy woman. "But God will prove my innocence in His own right
time."

"Why hesitate," again cried the eager young man, "when with a word you could disprove him?"

"I have already said it cannot be," said the accused woman, sinking her head upon her breast.

Gottlob himself drew back with a shudder; for a moment he knew not what to think; the strange
answers of Magdalena perplexed and troubled him. He began himself to doubt of the woman, who,
in return for his benevolence, had showed him the attachment of a mother. He pulled his cloak
over his face with both his hands, and stood for a time overwhelmed.

"It needs no further questions upon this point, I presume," said the chief schreiber, turning
to the Ober-Amtmann. "The wretched woman has already admitted a part of the truth;" and, with
a sign to the denouncer, he bade him proceed.

The witchfinder paused for a moment, and gave one long look of tenderness and pity--as far,
indeed, as his harsh, rudely-stamped features could express such feelings--at the pale face
of Bertha. Then, fixing his eye keenly upon the Ober-Amtmann, as if to fascinate his attention,
he burst into a fresh accusation against the sorceress, as having, in the first place, cast
her spells upon the noble Fraulein Bertha, for the purpose of sowing the seeds of death within
her frame; and as having, in the second place, employed the young man called "Gentle Gottlob"
to be an involuntary agent in her work of ill.

Upon hearing the first part of this charge, Magdalena had raised her head to give, unconsciously
as it were, a deprecating look at the fair girl--as if to assure her, with that one long concentrated
look of deep feeling, that, far from desiring her evil, she contended only with the overpourings
of kindness and love for her; and then, as though she had already expressed more than her conscience
could approve, she bowed again her head, murmuring only--"O God! support me. Thou knowest how
false is the raving of that wretched man." The second part of the charge excited other and
very varied feelings among those present. Magdalena again started, but with evident surprise,
and made a hasty gesture of denial. Gottlob sprang forward, horrified at being thus involved,
even as an involuntary agent, in the hideous denunciation, and indignant at the supposition
that he could work ill to the Amtmann's lovely daughter; and he protested, with all the vehemence
which gentle natures, when roused into excitement, will display, against so unfounded and calumnious
an accusation; whilst Bertha, joining together her small hands, as if in supplication, turned
her face, with anxious expression, to her father, crying--"No, no--it cannot be!"

Astounded at so unexpected a revelation, the Ober-Amtmann seemed at first not to know what
to think. He gazed alternately upon Gottlob and Bertha, as if to read upon their faces the
secret of a connexion between them; and then, satisfied of the impossibility that the noble
Ober-Amtmann's daughter could have the slightest affinity with the unknown youth before him,
he drew a long breath, and passed his hand over his brow, as if to drive away ideas so absurd.

"Peace, youth--peace!" he cried to Gottlob; "we will hear thee anon. It is not thou who art
accused. And thou, my child be calm. Cripple! what mean thy words? What proof bringest thou
of their truth?"

"Ask of the suffering angel by thy side, my noble lord," replied the cripple with emotion.
"Let her tell how, of late, her cheek has grown pale, her limbs have become weary, her very
life's-blood languid and oppressed. I have watched her day by day, and I have seen these changes.
I have watched her with a careful and a cunning eye; and I have felt--there, in my heart--that
the spell was upon her: and this it was that urged me to denounce that wretched hag."

"Speak, my child," said the Ober-Amtmann, in trouble and anxiety. "What this man says, is it
true? Hast thou suffered lately? Indeed, I do remember thy cheek has been paler than of wont--thy
appetite has left thee--thou hast been no longer so cheerful or so active as of old. Speak,
my child--hast thou really suffered?"

"Oh, no! my father, I have not suffered," replied the agitated girl in much confusion; "and
yet I have not been as formerly I was. I have been sad, I knew not why, and wept in the silence
of my chamber without cause; and I have found no pleasure in my embroidery, nor in my flowers,
nor in my falcons. I have felt my foot fall weary. I have sought to rest, and yet, when reposing,
I have felt unable to remain in quiet, and I have longed for exercise abroad. But yet I have
not suffered; and sometimes I have even hugged with pleasure the trouble of my mind and body."

"These seem, indeed, the symptoms of a deadly spell upon thee, my poor child," exclaimed her
father. "Such, they say, are the first evidences of the working of those charms that witches
breathe over their victims."

"And let the Fraulein Bertha tell," cried the witchfinder, "how it has been yonder youth who
has seemed to exercise this influence of ill upon her."

Again Gottlob sought to spring forward and speak; but a sign from the Ober-Amtmann to the guards
caused them to place their pikes before him, and arrest him in his impulse.

"How and what is this, my child?" said the Ober-Amtmann. "Knowest thou that youth? and in what
has he, consciously or unconsciously, done thee ill?"

"He has done me no ill," replied the innocent girl in still greater confusion, as her bosom
heaved, and the blood suffused her cheeks. "I am sure he would not do me ill for all the treasures
of the world!"

"Thou knowest him then?" said her father, somewhat more sternly.

"No, I know him not," replied Bertha in trouble; "but I have met him sometimes in my path,
and I have seen him"--she hesitated for a moment, and then added, with downcast eyes, "at his
window, which overlooks our garden."

"Why then this trouble, Bertha?" continued the Ober-Amtmann, in a tone that rendered their
conversation inaudible beyond their own immediate circle.

"I cannot tell myself, my father. I feel troubled and sad, it is true; and yet I know not why.
I have no cause"----

"And when thou hast met yonder youth, as thou sayest, hast thou felt this trouble before?"

"Alas! yes, my father. I remember now that at his aspect my heart would beat; my head grow
giddy, and my ears would tingle; and then a faintness would come over me, as though it were
a pain I felt, and yet it was a pleasant pain. There was nothing in him that could cause me
ill; was there, father?"

The Ober-Amtmann's brow grew dark as Bertha proceeded; but, after a moment's reflection, he
murmured to himself--"Love! oh, no! It is impossible! She and he! The noble's daughter and
the low-born youngster. It could not be! There is no doubt! Witchcraft has been at work! How
long has it been thus with thee, my child?" he added with solicitude.

"I cannot tell, my father. Some five or six months past it came upon me. I know not when or how!"

"Bears he no charm upon him?" exclaimed the Ober-Amtmann aloud.

"He bears a charm upon him!" cried the witchfinder in triumph. "And ask who bound it round
his neck?"

"It is false! I bear no charm!" cried Gottlob eagerly. "She herself denied that it was such."

"Of what does he speak?" cried the Ober-Amtmann.

"It was but a gift of affection, and no charm. She gave me this ring," said Gottlob, pointing
to the ring hung by a small riband round his neck; "and I have worn it, as she requested, in
remembrance of some unworthy kindness I had shown her."

"And how long since was it," enquired the Ober-Amtmann, "that she bestowed this supposed gift
upon you?"

"Some five or six months past," was Gottlob's unlucky answer; "not long after I first brought
her to reside with me in my poor dwelling."

During this examination the agitation of Magdalena had become extreme; and when, upon the Ober-Amtmann's
command that the ring should be handed up to him, Gottlob removed it from his neck, and gave
it into the hands of one of the guards, she cried, in much excitement, "No, no; give it not,
Gottlob!"

The ring, however, was passed on to the Ober-Amtmann; and Magdalena, covering her face with
her hands, fell back, with a stifled groan, into her former crouching position.

The sight of the ring seemed indeed to have the power of a necromancer's charm upon the Ober-Amtmann.
No sooner had his eyes fallen upon it, than his cheek grew pale--his usually severe and stern
face was convulsed with agitation--and he sank back in his chair with the low cry, "That ring!
O God! After so many years of dearly-sought oblivion!"

At the sight of the Ober-Amtmann's agitation and apparent swoon, a howl of execration burst
from the crowd below, mingled with the cries of "Tear the wretch in pieces! She has poisoned
him! Tear her in pieces!" Consternation prevailed through the whole assembly. Bertha sprang
to her father's side; but the Ober-Amtmann quickly rallied. He waved his daughter back with
the remark, "It was nothing--it is past;" and raising himself in his chair, looked again upon
the ring.

"There is no doubt," he murmured, "it is that same ring--that Arabic ring, brought me from
the East, and which I gave--oh, no!--impossible!" he hurriedly exclaimed, as a horrible thought
seemed to cross him. "She has been dead many years since. Did not my own brother assure me
of her death? It cannot be!"

After a moment's pause to recover from his agitation, he gave orders to one of the guards to
remove the hood from Magdalena's head, that he might see her features. With the crooked end
of a pike's head, one of them tore back her hood; while another, with the staff of his pike,
forced her hands asunder. Magdalena's careworn and prematurely withered face was exposed to
the gaze of all, distorted with emotion.

"Less rudely, varlets!" cried the Ober-Amtmann, with a feeling of sudden forbearance towards
the wretched woman which surprised all present; for they could not but marvel at the slightest
symptom of consideration toward such an abhorred outcast of humanity as a convicted witch;
and as such the miserable Magdalena was already regarded.

For a moment the Ober-Amtmann considered Magdalena's careworn, withered, and agitated face
with painful attention; and then, as if relieved from some terrible apprehension, he heaved
a bitter sigh, and murmured to himself--"No, no, there is no trace of that once well-known
face. I knew it could not be. She is no more. It was a wild and foolish thought! but this ring--'tis
strange! Woman, dost thou know me?" he asked aloud, with some remaining agitation.

"I know you not," replied Magdalena with a low and choked voice; for she now trembled violently,
and the tears gushed from her eyes.

"How camest thou then by this ring? Speak! I command thee," continued the Ober-Amtmann.

Magdalena bowed her head with a gesture of refusal to answer any further question.

"Wretched woman! Hast thou violated the repose of the dead? Hast thou torn it from the grave?
How else came it in thy possession?"

The unhappy woman replied not. She had again covered her face with her hands, and the tears
streamed through her meagre fingers.

"Speak, I tell thee! This ring has conjured up such recollections, that were there but one
human link between thee and one who has long since rested from all sorrow in the grave, it
might ensure thy safety."

No answer was returned by Magdalena; although, to judge by the convulsed movement of her body,
the struggle within must have been bitter and heavy to bear.

"Die then in thy obstinacy, miserable woman," cried the Ober-Amtmann in a suppressed voice--"Let
justice take its course!"

"Denouncer!" said the chief schreiber to the witchfinder, "hast thou further evidence to offer?"

"Needs it more to convict a criminal of the foul and infernal practices of witchcraft?" cried
Black Claus with bitterness.

The chief schreiber turned to the Ober-Amtmann, as if to consult his will. For a moment the
Ober-Amtmann passed one hand across his brow, as though to sweep away the dark visions that
were hovering about it; and then, waving the other, as if he had come to a resolution which
had cost him pain, said with stern solemnity--"Let the workers of the evil deeds of Satan perish,
until the earth be purged of them all."

This customary formula implied the condemnation of the supposed sorceress.

"To the stake! to the stake!" howled the crowd, upon hearing the delivery of this expected
sentence.

After enjoining silence, which was with difficulty enforced, the chief schreiber rose, and
addressed to Magdalena the accustomed question, "Woman, dost thou demand the trial by water,
and God's issue by that trial?"

"I demand but to die in peace," replied the miserable woman; "and God's will be done!"

"She refuses the trial by water," said the chief schreiber, in order to establish the fact,
which was put down in writing by the adjuncts.

"To the stake! to the stake!" howled the crowd.

"And hast thou nothing to urge against the justice of thy sentence?" asked the official questioner.

"Justice!" cried Magdalena, with a start, which caused the chain around her waist to clank
upon the wretched stool on which she sat. "Justice!" she cried in a tone of indignation. For
a moment the earthly spirit revolted. But it gleamed only for an instant. "May God pardon my
unjust judge the sins of his youth,"--she paused, and added, "as I forgive him my cruel death!"
With these words, the last spark of angry feeling was extinguished for ever. "May God pardon
him, as well as those who have thus cruelly witnessed against me; and may He bless him, and
all those who are most near and dear to him," she continued--her voice, as she spoke, growing
gradually more subdued, until it was lost and choked in convulsive sobbings.

Again a thrill of horror passed through the Ober-Amtmann; for the sound of the voice seemed
to revive in his mind memories of the past, and recall a vision he had already striven to dispel
from it. His frame shuddered, and again he fell back in his chair.

"It is a delusion of Satan!" he muttered, pressing his hands to his ears, and closing his eyes.

Bertha's eyes streamed with tears; her pitying heart was tortured by this scene of sadness.

"Blessings instead of curses upon those who have condemned her! Can that be guilt?" said gentle
Gottlob to himself. "Can that be the spirit of the malicious and revengeful agent of the dark
deeds of Satan? No--she is innocent; and I will still save her, if human means can save!"

After thus parleying with himself, Gottlob began to struggle to make his way from the court.

"The blessings of the servants of the fiend are bitter curses," said the infatuated witchfinder,
on the other hand; "and she has blessed me. God stand by me!"

"To the stake!--to the stake!" still howled the pitiless, the bloodthirsty crowd.

The refusal of the unhappy Magdalena to abide by the issue of the well-known trial by water,
had so much abridged the customary proceedings, that orders were given, and preparations made,
for the execution of the ultimate punishment for the crime of witchcraft--burning at the stake--shortly
after daybreak on the morrow.

It was yet night--a short hour before the breaking of the dawn. The pile had been already heaped
in the market-place of Hammelburg--the stake fixed. All was in readiness for the hideous performance
about to take place. The guards paced backwards and forwards before the grated doorway, which
opened under the terrace of the old town-hall; for there, in that miserable hole, was confined
the wretched victim of popular delusion. The soldiers kept watch, however, upon their prisoner
at such a distance as to be as far as possible out of the reach of her malefic spells. The
heavy clanking of their pikes, as they rested them from time to time upon the pavement, or
paused to interchange a word, alone broke the silence of the still sleeping town--sleeping,
to awake shortly like a tiger thirsty for blood. The light of a waning moon showed indistinctly
the dark mass in the centre of the market-place--the stage upon which the frightful tragedy
was about to be enacted--when one of the sentinels all at once turning his head in that direction,
descried a dark form creeping around the pile, as if examining it on all sides.

"What's that?" he cried in alarm to his comrade, pointing to this dark object. "Is it the demon
himself, whom she has conjured up, and who now comes to deliver her? All good spirits"--and
he crossed himself with hurried zeal.

"Praise the Lord!" continued the other, completing the usual German form of exorcism, and crossing
himself no less devoutly.

"Challenge him, Hans!" said the first; "at the sound of a Christian voice, mayhap, he may vanish
away; and thou art ever boasting to Father Peter that thou are the most Christian man of thy
company."

"Challenge him thyself," replied Hans, in a voice that did not say much for the firmness of
his conscience as a Christian.

"Let's challenge him both at once," proposed the other soldier. "Perhaps, between us, we may
muster up goodness enough to drive the foul fiend before us."

"Agreed!" replied Hans, with somewhat better courage; and upon this joint-stock company principle
of piety, both the soldiers raised their voices at once, and cried, in a somewhat quavering
duet, "Who goes there?"

A hoarse laugh was the only answer received to this challenge; and the dark form seemed to
advance towards them across the market-place.

So great appeared the modesty of each of the soldiers with regard to his appreciation of his
own merits as a good Christian--so little his confidence in his own powers of holiness to wrestle
with the fiend of darkness in the shape which now approached them--that they seemed disposed
rather humbly to quit the field, than encounter Sir Apollyon in so glorious a contest; when
the dim light of the moon revealed the figure, as it came forward, to be that of the witchfinder.

"It is Claus Schwartz!" said Hans, taking breath.

"Or the devil in his form," pursued his fellow-sentinel with more caution. "Stand back!" he
shouted, as the witchfinder came within a few yards, "and declare who thou art."

"Has the foul hag within there bewitched thee?" cried Black Claus; "or has she smitten thee
with blindness? Canst thou not see? The night is not so dark but good men may know each other."

"What wouldst thou here?" said Master Hans, completely recovered from his spiritual alarm.

"I cannot rest," replied the witchfinder with bitterness. "Until her last ashes shall have
mingled with the wind, I shall take no repose, body or mind. I cannot sleep; or, if I close
my eyes, visions of the hideous hags, who have already perished there, float before my distracted
eyes. It is she that murders my rest, as she has tormented my poor limbs--curses on her! But
a short hour, a short hour more, and she too shall feel all the tortures of hell--tortures
worse than those she has inflicted on the poor cripple. The flames shall rise, and lap her
body round--the bright red flames. Her members shall writhe upon the stake. The screams of
death shall issue from her blackened lips; until the lurid smoke shall have wrapped her it
its dark winding-sheet, and stifled the last cry of her parting soul, as it flies to meet its
infernal master in the realms of darkness. Oh, it will be a glorious sight!" And the cripple
laughed, with an insane laugh of malice and revenge, which made the soldiers shudder in every
limb, and draw back from him with horror.

It seemed as if the fever of his excitement had pressed so powerfully on his brain as to have
driven him completely into madness. After a moment, however, he pulled his rosary from his
bosom, and kissed it, adding, in a calmer tone, "Yes, it will be a glorious sight--for it will
be for the cause of the Lord, and of his holy church."

Little as they comprehended the witchfinder's raving, the soldiers again crossed themselves,
and looked upon him with a sort of awe.

"What wouldst thou?" said one of them, as Claus advanced towards the prison door.

"I would look upon her, there--in her prison," said the cripple, with an expression that denoted
a malicious eagerness to gloat upon his victim.

The soldiers interchanged glances with one another, as if they doubted whether such a permission
ought to be allowed to the witchfinder.

"Ah, bah!" said Hans. "It is not he that will aid her to escape. Let him pass. They'll make
a fine sport with one another, the witchfinder and the witch--dog and cat. Zist, zist!" continued
the young soldier, laughing and making a movement and a sound as if setting on the two above-mentioned
animals to worry each other.

"Take care," said his more scrupulous companion. "Jest not with such awful work. Who knows
but it may be blasphemy; and what would Father Peter say?"

The two sentinels continued their pacing up and down, but still at some distance from the prison
doorway, in order, as Hans's companion expressed it, "to keep as much as possible out of the
devil's clutches;" while Black Claus approached the grating of the door.

As the witchfinder peered, with knitted brow, through the bars of the grating, it seemed to
him at first, so complete was the darkness within, as though the cell was tenantless; and his
first movement was to turn, in order to warn the guards of the escape of their prisoner. But
as he again strained his eyes, he became at last aware of the existence of a dark form upon
the floor of the cell; and as by degrees his sight became more able to penetrate the obscurity
within, he began plainly to perceive the form of the miserable woman, crouched on her knees
upon the damp slimy pavement of the wretched hole. She was already dressed in the sackcloth
robe of the penitents condemned to the stake, and her poor grey hairs were without covering.
So motionless was her form that for a moment the witchfinder thought she was dead, and had
fallen together in the position in which she had knelt down; and the thought was like a knife
in his revengeful heart, that she might thus have escaped the tortures prepared for her, and
thwarted the gratification of his insane and hideous longings. A second thought suggested to
him that she was sleeping. But this conjecture was scarcely less agonizing to him than the
former. That she, the sorceress, should sleep and be at rest, whilst he, her victim, could
find no sleep, no rest, no peace, body or mind, was more than his bitter spirit could bear.
He shook the bars of the door with violence, and called aloud, "Magdalena!"

"Is my hour already come?" said the wretched woman, raising her head so immediately as to show
how far sleep was from her eyelids.

"No, thou hast got an hour to enjoy the torments of thy own despair," laughed the witchfinder,
with bitter irony.

"Let me, then, be left in peace, and my last prayers be undisturbed," said Magdalena.

"In order that thou mayst pray to the devil thou servest to deliver thee!" pursued Black Claus,
with another mocking laugh. "Ay--pray--pray; but it will be in vain. He is an arch-deceiver,
the fiend, thy master. He promises and fulfils not. He offers tempting wages to those who sell
to him their souls, and then deserts his servants in the hour of trouble. So prayed all the
filthy hags who sat there before thee, Magdalena; but they prayed in vain."

"Leave me, wretched man!" said Magdalena, who now became aware that it was the cripple who
addressed her. "Hast thou not sufficiently sated thy thirst for evil, that thou shouldst come
to torment me in my last moments? Go! tempt not the bitterness of my spirit in this supreme
hour of penitence and prayer. Go! for I have forgiven thee; and I would not curse thee now."

"I defy thy curses, witch of hell!" cried the cripple with frantic energy. "Already the first
pale streaks of dawn begin to flicker in the east. A little time, and thy power to curse will
be no more; a little time, and nothing will remain of thee but a heap of noisome ashes; and
a name, which will be mingled with that of the arch-enemy of mankind, in the execrations of
thy victims--a name to be remembered with horror and disgust--as that of the foul serpent--in
the thoughts of the tormented cripple, and of the pure angel of brightness, upon whom thou
hast sought to work evil and death."

"O God! make not this hour of trial too hard for me to bear!" exclaimed the unhappy woman;
and then, raising her clasped hands to Claus in bitter expostulation, she cried, "Man! what
have I done to harm thee, that thou shouldst heap these coals of fire on my soul?"

"What thou hast done to harm me?" cried the witchfinder. "Hast thou not tormented my poor cripple
limbs with thy infernal spells? Hast thou not caused me to suffer the tortures of the damned?
But it is not vengeance that I seek. No--no. I have vowed a holy vow--I have sworn to spend
my life in the good task of purging from the earth such workers of evil as thou, and those
who served the fiend by their foul sorceries, were it even at the risk of exposing my body
to pain and suffering, and even death, from the revengeful malice of their witchcrafts. And
God knows I have suffered in the holy cause."

And the cripple clenched again within his right hand, the image attached to the rosary in his
bosom, as if to satisfy himself by its contact of the truth and right of those deeds, which
he strove to qualify as holy.

"What thou, or such as thou, have done to harm me!" he continued with bitter spite. "I will
tell thee, hag! I was once a young and happy boy. I was strong and well-favoured then. I had
a father--a passionate but a kind man; and I had a mother, whom I loved beyond all created
things. She was the joy of my soul--the pride of my boyish dreams. I was happy then, I tell
thee. I called myself by another name. No matter what it was. Black Claus is the avenger's
name, and he will cleave to it. One day there came an aged beggar-woman to our cottage, and
begged. My mother heeded her not. I know not why; for she was ever kind. My father drove her
from the door; and, as she turned away, she cursed us all. I never can forget that moment,
nor the terror of my youthful mind, as I heard that curse. And the curse clave to us; for she--was
a witch; and it came upon us soon and bitterly. My mother was in the pride of her beauty still,
when a gay noble saw her in her loveliness, and paid her court. Then came a horrible night,
when the witch's curse was fearfully fulfilled. My father was jealous. He attacked the young
noble as he came by the darkness of night; and it was he--my father--who was killed. I saw
him die, weltering in his blood. My poor mother, too, was spirited away; the fell powers of
witchcraft dragged her from that bloody hearth. Yes; witchcraft it was--it must have been;
for she was too pure and good to listen to the voice of the seducer--to follow her husband's
murderer. She died, probably, of grief--my poor wretched mother; for I never saw her more.
For days and nights I sought her, but in vain; suffering cold and hunger, and sleeping oft-times
in the cold woods and dank morasses. Then fell the witches curse on me also; and I began to
suffer these pains, which thy foul tribe have never ceased to inflict upon me since. The tortures
of the body were added to the tortures of the mind. My limbs grew distorted and withered. I
became the outcast of humanity I now am; and then it was I vowed a vow to pursue, even unto
death, all those hideous lemans of Satan, who, like her who cursed us, sell their wretched
souls but to work evil, and destruction, and death to their fellow-creatures. And I have kept
my vow!"

In spite of herself, Magdalena had been obliged to listen to the witchfinder's tale, which,
with his face pressed against the iron bars of the grating, he poured, with harsh voice, into
her unwilling ear. As he proceeded, however, she appeared fascinated by the words he uttered,
as the poor quivering bird is fascinated by the serpent's eye. Her eyeballs were distended--her
arms still outstretched towards him, as she had first raised them to him in her cry of expostulation;
but the hands were desperately clenched together--the arms stiffened with the extreme tension
of the nerves.

"Oh no!" she murmured to herself as he yet spoke; "that were too horrible!" and when he paused,
it was with a smothered scream of agony, still mixed with doubt, that she cried "Karl!"

"Karl!" repeated the witchfinder, clenching the bars with still firmer grasp, and raising himself
with the effort to the full height of his stature, as though his limbs had on a sudden recovered
all their strength--"Karl! Ay, that was my name! How dost thou know it, woman?"

"O God!" exclaimed the wretched tenant of the cell, "was my cup of bitterness not yet full?
Hast thou reserved me this?" She wrung her hands in agony, and then, looking again at the cripple,
cried in a tone of concentrated misery, "Karl! they told me that thou wast dead--that thou,
too, hadst died after that night of horrors!"

"Who art thou, woman?" cried the cripple again, with an accent of horror, as if a frightful
thought had for the first time forced itself upon his brain. "Who art thou, that thou speakest
to me thus, and freezest the very marrow of my bones with fear? Who art thou that criest 'Karl'
with such a voice--a voice that now comes back upon my ear, as if it were a damning memory
of times gone by? Who art thou woman?--speak! Let not this dreadful thought, that blasts me
like lightning, strike me utterly to the earth."

"Who I am?" sobbed the miserable woman. "Thy wretched and guilty mother, Karl!"

"Guilty!" shouted the cripple. "Then thou art not she! My mother was not guilty--she was all
innocence and truth!"

"I am thy guilty mother, Karl," repeated the kneeling woman, "who has striven, by long years
of penitence and prayer, to expiate the past. Alas, in vain! for Heaven refuses the expiation,
since it has reserved the wretched penitent this last, most fearful blow of all!"

"Thou!--oh no!--say it not! Thou my mother!" cried the witchfinder.

"Thy mother--Margaret Weilheim!"

"Horrible!--most horrible!" repeated the agonized son, letting go the bars, and clasping his
bony hands over his face. "Thou, my once beloved mother, the wretched being of misery and sin--the
accomplice of the spirits of darkness--and I thy denouncer! O God! This is some fearful delusion!"

"The delusion is in thy own heart, my poor, distracted, infatuated son," pursued the miserable
mother. "Happy and blessed were I, were no greater guilt upon my soul than that of the crime
for which I am this day condemned to die. Bitter it is to die; but I had accepted all as the
will of Him above, and he knows my innocence of all dealings with the powers of hell."

"Innocent!" cried the witchfinder in frightful agitation. "Were it possible! And is it I, thy
own child, who strikes the blow--I, who am thy murderer--I, who, to avenge the mother, have
condemned the mother to the stake? Horrible! And yet those proofs--those fearful proofs!"

"Hear me, for my time is short now in this world," said the poor woman, known by the name of
Magdalena. "I will not tell thee how I listened to the voice of the serpent, and how I fell.
My pride in my fatal beauty was my pitfall. All that the honied words of passion and persuasion
could effect was used to lure me on to my destruction--and at last I fled with my seducer.
I knew not then, I swear to thee, Karl--God knows how bitterly it costs the mother to reveal
her shame to her own son; but bitter if it be, she accepts is as an expiation, and she will
not deceive him--I swear to thee, I knew not then that thy father had fallen in that unhappy
night, and had fallen by the hand of him whom I madly followed. It was long after that the
news reached me, and had nearly driven me distracted. The same tale told me, but falsely, the
death of my first-born--my Karl. Remorse had long since tortured my heart. I was not happy
with the lover of my choice--I never had been happy with him; but now the stings of my conscience
became too strong to bear. Tormented by my bitter self-reproaches, I decided upon quitting
my seducer, who had long proved cold and heartless. But I had borne him a child--a daughter;
and to quit my offspring, the only child left to me, was agony; to take it with me, to bear
it away to partake a life of poverty and wretchedness, was still greater agony to the mother's
mind. The great man who was its father--for he was of noble rank, and highly placed--when he
found me determined to leave him and the world for ever--and he saw me part from him, the heartless
one, without regret--offered to adopt my darling infant as his legitimate child; to bring it
up to all the honours, wealth, and consideration of the world; to ensure it that earthly happiness
the mother's heart yearned to give it. But, as I have told thee, he was cold and worldly-minded,
and he exacted from me an oath--a cruel oath--that I never should own my child again--that
I never should address it as my offspring--that I never should utter the word 'daughter,' never
hear the cry of 'mother' from its lips. He would not that his daughter, the noble Fraulein,
should be brought to shame, by being acknowledged as the offspring of a peasant wife. All I
desired was the welfare--the happiness--of my child.

"I stifled all the more selfish feelings of a mother's heart and I consented. I took that oath.
I kissed my child for the last time, and tore myself away. I hoped to die; but God reserved
me for a long and bitter expiation of my sin. I still found upon earth, however, one kind and
pitying friend. He was the brother of my noble lover, and himself among the highest in the
land. He was a priest; and, in his compassion, he found me refuge in a convent, where, though
I deemed myself unworthy to receive the veil, I assumed the dress of the humblest penitent,
and took the name of the repentant one--the name of Magdalen. I desired to cut myself off completely
from the world; and I permitted the father of my child to believe a report that I was no more.
In the humility of my bitter repentance, I vowed never to pass the gates of the holy house
of God--never to put my foot upon the sacred ground--never to profane the sanctuary with my
soul of sin--to worship only without, and at the threshold, until such time as it should seem
to me that God had heard my repentance, and accepted my expiation. Now, thou knowest why I
have never dared to enter the holy building."

The witchfinder groaned bitterly, clenching, in agony, the folds of his garment, and tearing
his breast.

"My spiritual adviser was benevolent and kind; but he was also stern in his calling. He imposed
upon me such penitence as, in his wisdom, he thought most fit to wash out my crime; and I obeyed
with humble reverence. But there was one penance more cruel than the rest--the mortification
of my only earthly affection--the driving out from my heart all thought of the child of my
folly and sin--the vow never to seek, to look upon her more. But the love of the world was
still too strong upon the wretched mother. At the risk of her soul's salvation, she fled the
convent to see her child once again. It was in the frenzy of a fever-fit, when I thought to
die. I forgot all--all but my oath--I never sought to speak to my darling child; but I followed
her wherever I could--I watched for her as she passed--I gazed upon her with love--I prayed
for blessings on her head."

"Alas! I see it all now. It is, as it were, a bandage fallen from my eyes. Fool--infatuated
fool!--monster that I was!" cried the witchfinder. "Bertha was your daughter--my sister; and
I have smitten the mother for the love she bore her child. And he--her father--he was that
villain! Curses on him!"

"Peace! Peace! my son!" continued Magdalena, "and curse no more. Nor can I tell thee that it
was so. I have sworn that oath never to divulge my daughter's birth; and cruel, heartless,
as was the feeling that forced it on me, I must observe it ever. And thus I continued to live
on--absorbed in the one thought of my child and her happiness--heedless of the present--forgetful
of my duty; when suddenly, but two days ago, he who has been the kind guardian of my spiritual
weal, appeared before me in the chamber where, alone and unobserved, I wept over the picture
of my child. He came, I presume, by a passage seldom opened, from the monastery, whither his
duties had called him. He chid me for my flight--recalled me to my task of expiation--and,
bidding me return to the convent, left me, with an injunction not to say that I had seen him.
Nor could I reveal the fact of my mysterious interview with him, or tell his name, without
giving a clue to the truth of my own existence, and the discovery of all I had sworn so binding
an oath ever to conceal. Thou sawest him also--but, alas! with other thoughts."

"Madman that I have been!" exclaimed the witchfinder. "Or is it now that I am mad? Am I not
raving? Is not all this insane delusion? No--thou are there before me--closed from my embraces
by these cruel bars that I have placed between us. Thou! my mother--my long-lost--my beloved--most
wretched mother, in that dreadful garb!--condemned to die by thy own infatuated son! Would
that I were mad, and that I could close my brain to so much horror! But thou shalt not die,
my mother--thou shalt not die! Thou are innocent! I will proclaim thy innocence to all! They
will believe my word--will they not? For it was I who testified against thee. I, the matricide!
I will tell them that I lied. Thou shalt not die, my mother! Already! already!--horror!--the
day is come!"

The day was come. The first faint doubtful streaks of early dawn had gradually spread, in a
cold heavy grey light, over the sky. By degrees the darkness had fled, and the market-place,
the surrounding gables of the houses, the black pile in the midst, had become clearer and clearer
in harsh distinctness. The day was come! Already a few narrow casements had been pushed back
in their sliding grooves, and strange faces, with sleepy eyes, had peered out, in night attire,
to forestall impatient curiosity. Already indistinct noises, a vague rumbling, an uncertain
sound from here or there had broken up the utter silence of the night, and told that the drowsy
town was waking from its sleep, and stirring with the faint movement of new life. The day was
come! The sentinels paced up and down more quickly, to dissipate that feeling of shivering
cold which runs through the night-watcher during the first hour of the morn. During the colloquy
between the cripple and the prisoner, they had been more than once disturbed by the loud tones
of passionate exclamation that had burst from the former; but Hans had contrived to dispel
his comrade's scruples as to what was going forward at the prison door, by making light of
the matter.

"Let them alone. They are only having a tuzzle together--the witchfinder and the witch! And
if the man, as the weaker vessel in matters of witchcraft, do come off minus a nose or so,
it will never spoil Black Claus's beauty, that's certain. Hark! hark! they are at it again!
To it, devil! To it, devil-hunter! Let them fight it out between them, man. Let them fight
it out. It's fine sport, and it will never spoil the show." And Hans stamped with his feet,
and hooted at a distance, and hissed between his teeth, with all the zest of a modern cockfighter
in the sport, rather to the scandal and shame of his more cautious and scrupulous companion.
But when the cripple, in his despair, shook, in his nervous grasp, the bars of the grating
in the door, as if he would wrench it from its staples, and flung himself in desperation against
the strongly-ironed wooden mass, with a violence that threatened, in spite of its great strength,
to burst it open, the matter seemed to become more serious in their eyes.

"Hollo, man! witchfinder! Black Claus! What art thou doing?" cried the sentinels, hurrying
to the spot. "Does the devil possess thee? Art thou bewitched? Wait! wait! they'll let her
out quick enough to make her mount the pile. Have patience, man!"

"She is innocent!" cried the cripple, still grappling with the bars in his despair. "She is
innocent! Let her go free!"

"He is bewitched," said the one soldier. "See what comes of letting them be together."

"He has had the worst of it, sure enough," said Hans.

"I am not bewitched, fools!" cried the frantic man. "There's no witchcraft here! She is innocent,
I tell ye! O God! these bells! they announce their coming! Bid them cease! bid them cease!
they drive me mad!"

At that moment a merry chime from the church-bells burst out joyously upon the morning air,
to announce that a fête was about to take place in the town; for such a gratifying show as
the burning of a witch, was a fête for the inhabitants of Hammelburg.

"These bells! these bells!" again cried Claus in agony, as their merry chime came in gusts
along the rising wind, as if to mock his misery and despair. "How often, during this long night,
I have longed to hear their joyous sound; and now they ring in my ears like the howlings of
fiends! But she shall not die! I will yet save her," continued the distracted man; and he again
shook the prison door with a force which his crippled limbs could scarcely have been supposed
to possess.

With difficulty could the now alarmed sentinels, who shouted for help, cause the cripple to
release his hold. Fresh guards rushed to the spot, and assisted to seize the desperate man.
But in vain he protested the innocence of the supposed sorceress--in vain he cried to them
to release her. He was treated as bewitched; and it was only when at last, overcome by the
violence of his struggles, he ceased to resist with so much energy, that they allowed him to
remain unbound, and let fall the cords with which they had already commenced to tie his arms.

"The Ober-Amtmann will come," he said at last, with a sort of sullen resignation. "He must--he
shall hear me. He shall know all--he will believe her innocent."

In the meanwhile, the market-place had already begin to fill with an anxious crowd. In a short
time, the press of spectators come to witness the bloody spectacle, began to be great. The
throng flowed on through street and lane. There were persons of all ages, all ranks, of both
sexes--all hurrying, crowding, squeezing to the fête of horror and death. Manifold and various
were the hundreds of faces congregated in a dense mass, as near as the guards would admit them
round the pile--all moved by one feeling of hideous curiosity. Little by little, all the windows
of the surrounding houses were jammed with faces--each window a strange picture in its quaintly-carved
wooden frame. The crowd was there--the living crowd eager for death--palpitating with excitement--each
heart beating with one pitiless feeling of greedy cruelty. And the bells still rang ceaselessly
their merry, joyous, fête-like peal.

And now with difficulty the soldiers forced a way through the throng for the approaching officer
of justice; the great officiating dignitary of the town, who was to preside over the ceremony.
He neared the town-hall, to order the unlocking of the prison-door, when the wretched witchfinder
again sprang forward, crying, "Mercy! mercy! she is innocent. Hear me, noble Ober-Amtmann!"
But he again started back with a cry of despair--it was not the Ober-Amtmann. He had been obliged,
by indisposition, to give up the office of superintending the execution, and the chief schreiber
had been deputed to take his place.

"Where is the Ober-Amtmann?" cried Claus in agony. "I must see him--I must speak with him!
She is innocent--I swear she is! He will save her, villain as he has been, when he hears all."

The general cry that Black Claus had been bewitched by the sorceress, was a sufficient explanation
to the chief schreiber of his seemingly frantic words.

"Poor man!" was his only reply. "She has worked her last spell upon him. Her death alone can
save his reason."

In spite of the struggles and cries of the infuriated cripple, the door was opened, and the
unhappy Magdalena was forced to come forwards by the guards. She looked wretchedly haggard
and careworn in her sackcloth robe, with her short-cut grey hairs left bare. A chain was already
bound around her waist, and clanked as she advanced. As her eyes fell upon her miserable son
she gave one convulsive shudder of despair; and then, clasping her hands towards him with a
look of pity and forgiveness, she murmured with a tone of resignation--"It is too late. Farewell!
farewell! until we meet again, where there shall be no sorrow, no care, no pain--only mercy
and forgiveness!"

"No, no--thou shalt not die!" screamed the cripple, whom several bystanders, as well as guards,
now held back with force, in awe as well as pity at his distracted state.--"Thou shalt not
die! She is my mother!" he cried like a maniac to the crowd around. "My mother--do ye hear?
She is innocent. What I said yesterday was false--utterly false--a damning lie! She is not
guilty--you would murder her! Fools! wretches, assassins! You believed me when I witnessed
against her; why will ye not believe me now? She is innocent, I tell you. Ye shall not kill her!"

"He is bewitched! he is bewitched! To the stake with the sorceress!--to the stake!" was the
only reply returned to his cries by the crowd.

In truth the miserable man bore all the outward signs of a person who, in those times, might
be supposed to be smitten by the spells of witchcraft. His eyes rolled in his head. His every
feature was distorted in the agony of his passion. His mouth foamed like that of a mad dog.
His struggles became desperate convulsions.

But he struggled in vain. The procession advanced towards the stake. Between two bodies of
guards, the condemned woman dragged her suffering bare feet over the rough stones of the market-place.
On one side of her walked the executioner of the town; on the other, his assistant, with a
lighted torch of tow, besmeared with resin and pitch, shedding around in a small cloud, the
lurid smoke that was soon about to arise in a heavy volume from the pile. The chief schreiber
had mounted, with his adjuncts, the terrace before the door of the town-hall, whence it was
customary for the chief dignitary of the town to superintend such executions. The bells rang
on their merry peal.

And now the unhappy woman was forced on to the pile. The executioner followed. He bound her
resistless to the stake, and then himself descended. At each of the four corners of the pile,
a guard on horseback kept off the crowd. There was a pause. Then appeared, at one end of the
mass of wood and fagots, a slight curling smoke--a faint light. The executioner had applied
the torch. A few seconds--and a bright glaring flame licked upwards with a forked tongue, and
a heavier gush of smoke burst upwards in the air. The miserable woman crossed her hands over
her breast--raised her eyes for a moment to heaven, and then, closing them upon the scene around
her, moved her lips in prayer--in the last prayer of the soul's agony. The crowd, which, during
the time when the procession had advanced towards the pile, had howled with its usual pitiless
howl, was now silent, breathless, motionless, in the extreme tension of its excitement. But
still the merry peal of bells rang on.

The smoke grew thicker and thicker. The flame already darted forward, as if to snatch at the
miserable garment of its victim, and claim her as its own, when there was heard a struggle--a
cry--a shout of frantic despair. The cripple, in that moment when all were occupied with the
fearful sight, had broken on those who held him, and before another hand could seize him, had
staggered through the crowd, and now swung himself with force upon the pile. A cry of horror
burst from the mass of spectators. They thought him utterly deprived of reason, and determined,
in his madness, to die with the sorceress. But in a moment his bony hands had torn the link
that bound the chain--had unwound the chain itself--had snatched the woman from the stake.
Before, in the surprise of the moment, a single person had stirred, his arm seized, with firm
and heavy gripe, the collar of the nearest horseman, who found himself in his seat on horseback
upon a level with the elevation of the pile. He knocked him with violence from the saddle.
The guard reeled and fell; and in the next instant Claus had flung himself on to the horse,
and in his arms he bore the form of the half-fainting Magdalena.

With a cry--a yell--a wild scream--he shouted, "To the sanctuary! to the sanctuary! she shall
not die--room! room!" Trampling right and left to the earth the dense crowd, who fled from
his passage as from an infuriated tiger in its spring, he dashed upon the animal over the market-place,
and darted in full gallop down the street leading to the Bridge-gate of the town.

"After him!" cried a thousand voices. The three other horsemen had already sprung after the
fugitive. The guards hastened in the same direction. Several of the crowd rushed down the narrow
street. All was confusion. Part of those who passed on impeded the others. Groans arose from
those who had been thrown down by the frantic passage of Claus, and who, lying on the stones,
prevented the pushing forwards of the others.

"Follow! After him! to the sanctuary!" still cried a thousand voices of the crowd.

At the same moment a noise of horsemen was heard coming from the entrance of the town in the
opposite direction to that leading to the bridge. Those who stood nearest turned their heads
eagerly that way. The first person who issued on the street, at full gallop, was Gottlob, without
a covering to his head--his fair hair streaming to the wind--his handsome face pale with fatigue
and excitement.

"Stop! stop!" he shouted as he advanced, and his eye fell upon the burning pile. "I bring the
prince's pardon! Save her!"

In a few moments, followed by a scanty train of attendants, appeared the Prince Bishop of Fulda
himself, in the dress--half religious, half secular--that he wore in travelling. His mild benevolent
face looked haggard and anxious, and he also was very pale; for he had evidently ridden hard
through a part of the night; and the exertion was too much for his years and habits. As he
advanced through the crowd, who drew back with respect from the passage of their sovereign,
he eagerly demanded if the execution had taken place. The general rumour told him confusedly
the tale of the events that had just occurred. Gottlob was soon again by his side, and related
to him all that he had heard.

"Where is my brother?" cried the bishop. "Is he not here?"

A few words told him that he had not appeared on this occasion.

"I will to the palace, then," he continued. "And the poor wretched woman, which way has that
maniac conveyed her?"

"To the sanctuary upon the mountain-side, in the path leading to your highness's castle of
Saaleck, as he was heard to cry," was the answer.

"But the torrents have come down from the hills," exclaimed others, "and the inundations sweep
so heavily upon the bridge, that it is impossible to pass it without the utmost danger."

"Save that unhappy woman!" exclaimed the bishop in agitation. "A reward for him who saves her!"
and followed by his attendants, he took the direction of the street leading to the palace.

It was true. The torrents had come down from the hills during the night, and the waters swept
over the bridge with fury. The planked flooring of the bridge, raised in ordinary circumstances
some feet above the stream, was now covered by the raging flood; and the side parapets, which
consisted partly of solid enclosure, partly of railing, tottered, quivered, and bent beneath
the rushing mass of dark, dun-coloured, whirling waters. The river itself, swelled far beyond
the usual extent of the customary inundations, for the passage of which the extreme length
of the bridge had been provided, hurried in wild eddies round the walls of the town, like an
invading army seeking to tear them down. But the frantic Claus heeded not the violence of the
waters, and dashed through the town-gate towards the bridge with desperation. The frightened
horse shied at the foaming stream, struggled, snorted; but the cripple seemed to possess the
resistless power of a demon--a power which gave him sway over the brute creation. He urged
the unwilling animal, with almost superhuman force, on to the tottering bridge.

The guards who had galloped after him, stopped suddenly as they saw the roaring torrent. None
dared advance, none dared pursue. Others, on foot, clogged the gateway, and stood appalled
at the sight of the rushing flood. The more eager of the crowd soon mounted on to those parts
of the town-walls that flanked the gate, and watched, with excited gesture, and shouts of wonder
or terror, the desperate course of the cripple.

Pressing his mother in his arms, with his body stretched forward in wild impatience upon the
struggling horse, Black Claus had urged his way into the middle of the stream. The bridge shook
fearfully beneath the burden: he heeded it not. It cracked and groaned still louder than the
roaring of the stream: he heard it not. He strove to dash on against the almost resistless
force of the sweeping current. His eye was strained upon the first point of the dry path on
the highway beyond. Before him lay, at a short distance, the road towards the castle of Saaleck,
up the mountain side. Halfway up the height stood, embowered in trees, the chapel he sought
to reach--the sanctuary of refuge for the condemned. That was his haven--there his wretched
mother would be in safety. He pressed her more tightly to his breast, and shouted wildly. His
shout was followed by a loud fearful crash, a roaring of waters, and a straining of breaking
timbers. In another instant, the centre of the bridge was fiercely borne away by the torrent,
and all was wild confusion around him.

A general cry of horror burst from the crowd at the gate and on the walls. All was for a moment
lost to sight in the whirl of waters. Then was first seen the snorting head of the poor horse
rising from the stream. The animal was struggling in desperation to reach the land. Again were
whirled upwards the forms of the cripple and the female, still tightly pressed within his arms;
and then a rush of waters, more powerful than the son's frantic grasp, tore them asunder. Nothing
now was visible but a floating body, which again disappeared in the eddying flood; and now
again the form of the witchfinder rose above the mass of waters. His long arms were tossed
aloft; his desperate cries were heard above the roaring of the torrent.

"Mercy! mercy!" he screamed. "Save me from these flames! this stifling smoke. I burn, I burn!"

As he shouted these last words of mad despair, the icy cold waters swept over him for ever.

All had disappeared. Upon the boiling surface of the hurrying flood was now seen nothing more
than spars and fragments of timber, remnants of the bridge, whirled up and down, and here and
there, and dashing along the stream.

Among the foremost of the crowd, who had pressed down the narrow lane leading to the water's
edge, between the premises of the Benedictine monastery and the palace garden, eager to gain
an unoccupied point whence they might watch the flight, stood "Gentle Gottlob."

From under the small water-gate, the stone passage of which was partially flooded by the unusually
rising waters, he had seen the frightful catastrophe which had accompanied the sweeping away
of the bridge. He stood overwhelmed with grief at the fate of the poor woman, whom he had uselessly
striven to save; his eye fixed upon the roaring waters, without seeing distinctly any thing
but a sort of wild turmoil, which accorded well with his own troubled reflections; when a cry
from the crowd, which still lingered on the spot, recalled him to himself.

"Look, look!" cried several voices. "There it is again! It is a body!"

On the dark surface of the waters, Gottlob saw a form whirled by the force of the current towards
the water-gate.

"It is the witch! it is the witch!" again cried the crowd, as the sackcloth garment of the
unhappy Magdalena showed itself above the stream.

In another moment Gottlob had rushed into the water, to seize the body as it was whirled past
the water-gate, and was almost dashed against the stone-piles.

"Touch her not!" screamed again the bystanders. "It is the witch! it is the witch!"

But Gottlob heeded not the shouts of the crowd. Holding by one hand on the trunk of a tree
overhanging the water, in order to bear up against the violence of the stream, he grasped with
the other the dress of the floating female before it again sank beneath the whirling eddy.
He pulled it towards him with force; and, after with difficulty struggling against the force
of the current, at length succeeded in bearing the lifeless form of Magdalena under the gateway.

Streaming himself with water, he laid the cold wet body down upon the stones, and bent over
it, to see whether life had fled from it for ever. The crown drew back with horror, uttering
cries of vain expostulation.

"Thank Heaven! she still breathes," said Gottlob at last, as, after some moments, a slight
convulsive movement passed over the frame of the poor woman. "Aid me, my friends. She still
lives. Help me to transport her to some house." But the crowd drew back in horror. "I will
convey her to my own chamber close by. Send for a leech! Are ye without pity?" he continued,
as, instead of assisting him, the crowd held back, and answered his entreaties only with exclamations
of disgust and scorn. "Are ye Christian men, that ye would see the poor woman die before your
eyes for want of aid? She is no witch. Good God! will no one show a heart of bare humanity?"
But the crowd still held back; and if they did not still scoff at him, were silent.

The kind youth, finding all hope of assistance vain, from the miserable prejudices of the people,
had at last contrived to raise the still senseless Magdalena in his arms, with the intention
of conveying her into his own dwelling; and already murmurs began to arise among the crowd,
as if they intended to oppose his purpose; when a door, communicating from the palace-gardens
with the narrow lane, opened, and the stately form of an aged man, of benevolent aspect, stood
between Gottlob, who remained alone under the water-gate with the lifeless form of Magdalena
on his arm, and the murmuring crowd which had drawn back into the lane. He stood like a guardian
spirit between the fair youth and the senseless mass of angry men. All snatched off their furred
hats, and bowed their bodies with respect. It was their sovereign, the Prince Bishop of Fulda.
His attendants followed him to the threshold of the garden gate.

"Thank God!" was his first simple exclamation at the sight of Magdalena in Gottlob's arms.
"You have contrived to save her, have you? I was myself hurrying hither to see what could be
done. Does she still live?"

Upon an affirmative exclamation from Gottlob, he raised his eyes to heaven with a short thanksgiving;
and then, turning to the crowd with a stern air, he asked--

"What were these cries and murmurs that I heard? Why were those threatening looks I saw? Would
ye oppose a Christian act of charity due to that unhappy woman, even were she the miserable
criminal she is not? Have ye yet to be taught your Christian duties in this land? God forgive
me; for then I have much to answer for!"

After this meek self-rebuke, he again looked seriously upon the bystanders, and waved his hand
to disperse the crowd, who slunk away before him; then, hastily giving orders that Magdalena
should be conveyed into the palace, he himself stopped to see her borne into the garden, and
followed anxiously.

Every means with which the leech-craft of the times was acquainted for the recovery of the
apparently drowned, was applied in the case of Magdalena, and with some success; for, after
a time, breath and warmth were restored--her eyes opened. But the respiration was hurried and
impeded--the eyes glazed and dim--the sense of what was passing around her, confused and troubled.
A nervous tremour ran through her whole frame. She lay upon a mattrass, propped up with a pile
of cushions, in a lower apartment of the palace. By her side knelt the kind Bishop of Fulda,
watching with evident solicitude the variation of the symptoms in the unfortunate woman's frame.
Behind her stood the stately form of the Ober-Amtmann--every muscle of his usually stern face
now struggling with emotion--his hands clenched together--his head bowed down; for he had learned
from his brother the Prince, that the female lying before him--the woman whom he had himself
condemned to the stake, was really the mistress of his younger years--the seduced wife of the
man whom he had killed--his victim, Margaret Weilheim. On the other side of the prostrate form
of Magdalena bent a grave personage in dark attire, who held her wrist, and counted the beating
of her pulse with an air of serious attention. In answer to an enquiring look from the Prince
Bishop, the physician shook his head.

"There is life, it is true," he said; "but it is ebbing fast. The fatigue and emotions of the
past day were in themselves too much for a frame already shattered by macerations, and privations,
and grief; this catastrophe has exhausted her last force of vitality. She cannot live long."

The Ober-Amtmann wrung his hands with a still firmer gripe. The tears trembled upon the good
old bishop's eyelids.

"See!" said the leech; "she again opens her eyes. There is more sense in them now."

The dying Magdalena in truth looked around her, as if she at length became conscious of the
objects on which her vision fell. She seemed to comprehend with difficulty where she was, and
how she had come into the position in which she lay. Feebly and with exertion she raised her
emaciated arm, and passed her skinny hand over her brow and eyes. But at length her gaze rested
upon the mild face of the benevolent bishop, and a faint smile passed over her sunken features.

"Where am I?" she murmured lowly. "Am I in paradise?--and you, reverend father, are also with me?"

In a few kind words, the bishop strove to recall her wandering senses, and explain to her what
had happened. At last a consciousness of the past seemed to come over her; and she shuddered
in every limb at the fearful recollection.

"And he! where is he?" she asked with an imploring look. "He! Karl!"

The old man looked at her with surprise, as though he thought her senses were still wavering.

"He carried me off, did he not?" she continued feebly; "or was it a dream? Was it only a strange
dream? No, no! I remember all--how we flew through the air; and then the rushing waters. Oh!
tell me; where is he?"

The bishop now comprehended that she spoke of the witchfinder; and said, "He is gone for ever,
to his last great account."

Magdalena groaned bitterly, and again closed her eyes. But it was evident that she still retained
her consciousness; for her lips were moving faintly, as if in prayer.

"Is there no hope?" enquired the bishop in a whisper of the physician. "Nothing can be done?"

"No hope!" replied the leech. "I have done all that medical skill can do; I can do no more,
your highness."

At a sign from the bishop, the physician withdrew.

Shortly after, the dying woman again unclosed her eyes, and looked around her at the strange
room in which she lay. A recollection of the past seemed to come across her, slowly and painfully;
and she again pressed her feeble hand to her brow.

"Why am I here?" she murmured. "Why do I again see this scene of folly and sin? O Lord! why
bring before my thus, in this last hour, the living memory of my past transgressions?"

As if to complete the painful illusion of the past, a voice now murmured "Margaret" in her
ear. The poor woman started, turned her head with difficulty, and saw, kneeling by her side,
the heartless lover of her youth. She gave him one look of fear and shame, and then turning
again her eyes to the bishop's face, exclaimed, "May God forgive me!--Pray for me, my father!"

"It is I who seek for mercy, Margaret!" cried the Ober-Amtmann. "I who need thy forgiveness
for all the wrong I have done thee!"

"Mercy and forgiveness are with God," said the dying woman solemnly. "All the wrong thou hast
done me I have long since forgiven, as far as such a sinner as myself can forgive. My time
is short; my breath is fast leaving me. I feel that I am dying," she added after a pause. "Father,
I would make my shrift; and, if God and your reverence permit one earthly thought to mingle
with my last hopes of salvation, I would confide to you a secret on which depends the happiness
of her I love, and you perhaps might secure her peace of mind. Alas, I cannot speak! O God!
give me still breath."

These words were uttered in a low and feeble tone. With a hasty gesture the bishop signed to
his brother to retire, and bent his ear over the mouth of the gasping woman.

After some time he rose, and first reassuring the dying mother that all he could do for her
child's welfare should be done, pronounced the sublime words of the church that give the promise
of forgiveness and salvation to the truly penitent sinner.

"Oh, might I look upon her once more!" sobbed Magdalena with convulsive effort. "One last look!
not a word shall tell her--it is--her unhappy mother--who gives her--a last blessing!"

The Ober-Amtmann left the room. In a few minutes he returned, leading Bertha by the hand. But
Magdalena was already speechless. The fair girl knelt by the side of the mattrass, sobbing
bitterly--she herself scarcely knew why. Was it only the sight of death, of the last parting
of the soul, that thus affected her? Was it affliction that her own error should have contributed
to hasten that unhappy woman's end? Or was not there rather a powerful instinct within her,
that, in that awful moment, bound her by a sympathetic tie to her unknown mother, and conveyed
a portion of that last agony of the departing woman to her own heart?

Magdalena, although she could not speak, was evidently aware of the presence of the gentle
girl. She still moved her lips, as if begging a blessing on her head, and fixed upon that mild
face, now bathed in tears, the last look of her fading eyes. And now the eyes grew dim and
senseless, although the spirit seemed still to struggle within for sight; now they closed--the
whole frame of the prostrate woman shuddered, and Margaret Weilheim--the repentant Magdalena--was
a corpse.

Some time after these events, the Ober-Amtmann retired from his high office, and after a seclusion
of some duration with his brother, at Fulda, finally betook himself to a monastery, where he
remained until his death.

Before his retirement from the world, however, he had consented, not without some difficulty,
to the union of Bertha and Gottlob. The Prince Bishop, unforgetful of the claims of the unfortunate
Magdalena, had urged upon his brother the duty of making this concession to the dying wishes
of the wronged mother, as well as to the evident affection of Bertha for the young artist,
which, although unknown even to herself, was no less powerful. As Gottlob, although of a ruined
and impoverished family, was not otherwise than of noble birth, the greatest difficulty of
these times was surmounted; and the Prince Bishop, by bestowing upon the young man a post of
honour and rank about his person, in which the gentle youth could still continue the pursuit
of his glorious art, and march on unhindered in his progress to that eminence which he finally
attained, smoothed the road to the Ober-Amtmann's consent.

On the day of Bertha's marriage, the good Prince Bishop promulgated an edict, that for the
future no one should suffer the punishment of death for the crime of witchcraft in his dominions.
But, after his decease, the edict again fell into disuse; and the town of Hammelburg, as if
the spirit of Black Claus, the witchfinder, still hovered about its walls, again commenced
to assert its odious reputation, and maintain its hideous boast, of having burned more witches
than any other town in Germany.

MY LAST COURTSHIP; OR, LIFE IN LOUISIANA.

CHAPTER THE FIRST.

A VOYAGE ON THE RED RIVER.

It was on a sultry sunny June morning that I stepped on board the Red River steamboat. The
sun was blazing with unusual power out of its setting of deep-blue enamel; no wind stirred,
only the huge mass of water in the Mississippi seemed to exhale an agreeable freshness. I gave
a last nod to Richards and his wife who had accompanied me to the shore, and then went down
into the cabin.

I was by no means in the most amiable of humours. Although I had pretty well forgotten my New
York disappointment, two months' contemplation of the happiness enjoyed by Richards in the
society of his young and charming wife, had done little towards reconciling me to my bachelorship;
and it was with small pleasure that I looked forward to a return to my solitary plantation,
where I could reckon on no better welcome than the cold, and perhaps scowling, glance of slaves
and hirelings. In no very pleasant mood I walked across the cabin, without even looking at
the persons assembled there, and leaned out of the open window. I had been some three or four
minutes in this position, chewing the cud of unpleasant reflections, when a friendly voice
spoke close to my ear--

"Qu'est ce qu'il y a donc, Monsieur Howard? Etes-vous indisposé? Allons voir du monde."

I turned round. The speaker was a respectable-looking elderly man; but his features were entirely
unknown to me, and I stared at him, a little astonished at the familiar tone of his address,
and at his knowledge of my name. I was at that moment not at all disposed to make new acquaintances;
and, after a slight bow, I was about to turn my back upon the old gentleman, when he took my
hand, and drew me gently towards the ladies' cabin.

"Allons voir, Monsieur Howard."

"Mais que voulez-vous donc? What do you want with me?" said I somewhat peevishly to the importunate
stranger.

"Faire votre connaissance," he replied with a benign smile, at the same time opening the door
of the ladies' saloon. "Monsieur Howard," said he to two young girls who were occupied in tying
up a bundle of pine-apples and bananas to one of the cabin pillars, just as in the northern
States, or in England, people hang up strings of onions, "Mes filles, voici notre voisin, Monsieur
Howard."

The damsels tripped lightly towards me, welcoming me as cordially as if I had been an old acquaintance,
and hastened to offer me some of their fragrant and delicious fruit. Their greeting and manners
were really highly agreeable. Had they been two of my own dear countrywomen, I might have lived
ten years with them without being so well and frankly received, or invited to spoil my dinner
in so agreeable a manner, as by these fair Pomonas. I could not refuse an invitation so cordially
given. I sat down, and, notwithstanding my dull and fretful humour, soon found myself amused
in my own despite by the lively chatter of the Creoles. An hour passed rapidly in this manner,
and a second and third might possibly have been wiled away as agreeably, had not my stiff Virginian
feeling of etiquette made me apprehensive that a longer stay might be deemed intrusive.

"You will come back and take tea with us?" said the young ladies as I left the cabin.

I bowed a willing assent; and truly, on reaching the deck, I found reason to congratulate myself
on having done so. The company there assembled was any thing but the best. A strange set of
fellows! I could almost have fancied myself in old Kentuck. Drovers and cattle-dealers from
New Orleans proceeding to the north-western countries; half-wild hunters and trappers, on their
way to the country beyond Nacogdoches, with the laudable intention of civilizing, or, in other
words, of cheating the Indians; traders and storekeepers from Alexandria and its neighbourhood;
such was the respectable composition of the society on board the steamer. A rough lot they
were, thick-booted, hoarse-voiced, hard-fisted fellows, who walked up and down, chewing and
smoking, and spitting with as much exactness of aim as if their throats had been rifle-barrels.

We were just coming in sight of a large clump of foliage. It was the mouth of the Red River,
which is half overarched by the huge trees that incline forward over its waters from either
bank. What a contrast to the Mississippi, which flows along, broad, powerful, and majestic,
like some barbarian conqueror bursting forth at the head of his stinking hordes to overrun
half a world! The Red River on the other hand, which we are accustomed to call the Nile of
Louisiana--with about as much right and propriety as the Massachusetts cobbler who christened
his son Alexander Cæsar Napoleon--sneaks stealthily along through forest and plain, like some
lurking and venomous copper-snake. Cocytus would be a far better name for it. Here we are at
the entrance of the first swamp, out of which the infernal scarlet ditch flows. It is any thing
but a pleasant sight, that swamp, which is formed by the junction of the Tensaw, the White
and Red Rivers, and at the first glance appears like a huge mirror of vivid green, apparently
affording solid footing, and scattered over with trees, from which rank creepers and a greasy
slime hang in long festoons. One would swear it was a huge meadow, until, on looking rather
longer, one sees the dark-green swamp lilies gently moving, while from amongst them are protruded
numerous snouts or jaws, of a sickly greyish-brown, discoursing music which is any thing but
sweet to a stranger's ears. These are thousands of alligators, darting out from amongst the
rank luxuriance of their marshy abode. It is their breeding time, and the horrible bellowing
they make is really hideous to listen to. One might fancy this swamp the headquarters of death,
whence he shoots forth his envenomed darts in the thousand varied forms of fever and pestilence.

We had proceeded some distance up the Red River, when the friendly old Creole came to summon
me to the tea-table. We found one of his daughters reading Bernardin de St Pierre's novel,
a favourite study with Creole ladies; while the other was chatting with her black-skinned,
ivory-toothed waiting-maid, with a degree of familiarity that would have thrown a New York
élégante into a swoon. They were on their way home, their father told me, from the Ursuline
Convent at New Orleans, where they had been educated. It can hardly have been from the holy
sisters, one would think, that they acquired the self-possessed and scrutinizing, although
not immodest gaze, with which I at times observed them to be examining me. The eldest is apparently
about nineteen years of age, slightly inclined to embonpoint. It was really amusing to observe
the cool, comfortable manner, in which she inspected me in a large mirror that hangs opposite
to us, as if she had been desirous of seeing how long I could stand my ground and keep my countenance.

It would fill a book to enumerate all the items of baggage and effects which my new friends
the Creoles had crowded into the state-cabin. Luckily, they were the only inmates of the latter,
and had, consequently, full power in their temporary dominions. Had there been co-occupants,
a civil war must have been the inevitable result. The ladies had a whole boat-load of citrons,
oranges, bananas, and pine-apples; and their father had at least three dozen cases of Chambertin,
Laffitte, and Medoc. I at first thought he must be a wine-merchant. At any rate he showed his
good taste in stocking himself with such elegant and salutary drinkables, instead of the gin,
and whisky, and Hollands to which many of my countrymen would have given the preference--those
green and brown compounds, elixirs of sin and disease, concocted by rascally distillers for
the corruption and ruin of Brother Jonathan.

The tea was now ready. Monsieur Ménou (that was the name of my new friend) seemed inclined
to reject the sober beverage, and stick to his Chambertin. I was disposed to try both. The
young ladies were all that was gay and agreeable. They were really charming girls, merry and
lively, full of ready wit, and with bright eyes and pleasant voices, that might have cheered
the heart of the veriest misanthrope. But there are moments in one's life when the mind and
spirits seem oppressed by a sort of dead dull calm, as enervating and disheartening as that
which succeeds a West Indian hurricane in the month of August. At those times every thing loses
its interest, and one appears to become as helpless as the ship that lies becalmed and motionless
on the glassy surface of a tropical sea. I was just in one of those moments. I had consulted
any thing but my own inclination in leaving the hospitable roof and pleasant companionship
of my friend Richards, to return to my own neglected and long-unvisited plantation, where I
should find no society, and should be compelled to occupy myself with matters that for me had
little or no interest. Had I, as I hoped to do when in New York, taken back a partner of my
joys and sorrows, some gentle creature who would have cheered my solitude and sympathized with
all my feelings, I should have experienced far less repugnance or difficulty in returning to
my home in the wilderness; but as it was, I felt oppressed by a sense of loneliness that seemed
to paralyse my energies, and that certainly rendered me any thing but fit society for the lively,
talkative party of which I now found myself a member. I strove to shake off the feeling, but
in vain; and at last, abandoning the attempt, I left the cabin and went on deck.

The night was bright and starlight; the atmosphere perfectly clear, with the exception of a
slight white mist that hung over the river. The hollow blows of the steam-engine seemed to
be echoed in the far distance by the bellowing of the alligators; while the plaintive tones
of the whip-poor-will were heard at intervals in the forest through which we were passing.
There was no sign of life on the banks of the river; it was a desert; not a light to be seen,
save that of millions of fireflies, which threw a magical kind of chiaroscuro over the trees
and bushes. At times we passed so near the shore that the branches rattled and snapped against
the side of the boat. Our motion was rapid. Twelve hours more, and I should be in my Tusculum.
Just then the captain came up to me to say, that if I were disposed to retire to rest, the
noisy smokers and drinkers had discontinued their revels, and I might now have some chance
of sleeping. I had nothing better to do, so descended the stairs and installed myself in my berth.

When I rose the next morning, a breeze had sprung up, and we were proceeding merrily along
under sail as well as steam. The first person I met was Monsieur Ménou, who wished me a bon-jour
in, as I thought, a somewhat colder tone than he had hitherto used towards me, and looked me
at the same time enquiringly in the face. It seemed as if he wished to read there whether his
courtesy and kindness were likely to be requited by the same ungracious stiffness that I had
shown him on the preceding day. Well, I will do my best to obliterate the bad impression I
have apparently made. They are good people, these Creoles--not particularly bashful or discreet;
but yet I like their forwardness and volatility better than the sly smartness of the Yankees,
in spite of their ridiculous love of dancing, which even the first emigrants could not lay
aside, amidst all the difficulties of their settlement in America. It must have been absurd
enough to see them capering about, and dancing minuets and gavottes in blanket coats and moccasins.

Whilst I was talking to the Ménous, and doing my best to be amiable, the bell rang, the steam
was let off, and we stopped to take in firing.

"Monsieur, voilà votre terre!" said the father pointing to the shore, upon which a large quantity
of wood was stacked. I looked through the cabin window; the Creole was right. I had been chatting
so diligently with the young ladies that the hours had flown like minutes, and it was already
noon. During my absence, my overseer had established a depot of wood for the steamboats. So
far so good. And yonder is the worthy Mr Bleaks himself. The Creole seems inclined to accompany
me to my house. I cannot hinder him certainly, but I sincerely hope he will not carry his politeness
quite so far. Nothing I dread more than such a visit, when I have been for years away from
house and home. A bachelor's Lares and Penates are the most careless of all gods.

"Mr Bleaks," said I, stepping up to the overseer, who, in his Guernsey shirt, calico inexpressibles,
and straw hat, his hands in his pockets and a cigar in his mouth, was lounging about, and apparently
troubling himself very little about his employer. "Mr Bleaks, will you be so good as to have
the gig and my luggage brought on shore?"

"Ha! Mr Howard!" said the man, "is it you? Didn't expect ye so soon."

"I hope that, if unexpected, I am not unwelcome," replied I, a little vexed at this specimen
of genuine Pennsylvanian dryness.

"You ain't come alone, are you?" continued Bleaks, examining me at the same time out of the
corners of his eyes. "Thought you'd have brought us a dozen blackies. We want 'em bad enough."

"Est-il permis, Monsieur?" now interposed the Creole, taking my hand, and pointing towards
the house.

"And the steamer?" said I, in a tone as drawling as I could make it, and without moving a pace
in the direction indicated.

"Oh! that will wait," replied Ménou, smiling.

What could I do with such a persevering fellow? There was nothing for it but to walk up with
him to the house, however unpleasant I found it so to do. And unpleasant to me it certainly
was, in the then state of my habitation and domain. It was a melancholy sight--a perfect abomination
of desolation. Every thing looked so ruined, decayed, and rotten, that I felt sick and disgusted
at the prospect before me. I had not expected to find matters half so bad. Of the hedge round
the garden only a few sticks were here and there standing; in the garden itself some unwholesome-looking
pigs were rooting and grubbing. As to the house! Merciful heavens! Not a whole pane in the
windows! all the frames stopped and crammed with old rags and bunches of Indian corn leaves!
I could not expect groves of orange and citron trees--I had planted none; but this! no, it
was really too bad. Every picture must have its shady side, but here there was no bright one;
all was darkness and gloom. We did not meet a living creature as we walked up from the shore,
winding our way amongst the prostrate and decaying tree-trunks that encumbered the ground.
At last, near the house, we stumbled upon a trio of black little monsters, that were rolling
in the mud with the dogs, half a shirt upon their bodies, and dirty as only the children of
men possibly can be. The quadrupeds, for such they looked, jumped up on our approach, stared
at us with their rolling eyes, and then scuttled away to hide themselves behind the house.
Ha! Old Sybille! Is it you? She was standing before a caldron, suspended, gipsy-fashion, from
a triangle of sticks--looking, for all the world, like a dingy parody of one of Macbeth's witches.
She, too, stared at us, but without moving. I must introduce myself, I suppose. Now she has
recognised me, and comes towards us with her enormous spoon in her hand. I wonder that her
shriveled old turkey's neck--which cost me seventy-five dollars, by the by--has not got twisted
before now. She runs up to me, screaming and crying for joy. There is one creature, then, glad
to see me. It is amusing to observe the anxiety with which she looks at the caldron, and at
three pans in which ham and dried buffalo are stewing and grizzling; she is evidently quite
unable to decide whether she shall abandon me to my fate, or the fleshpots to theirs. She sets
up her pipe and makes a most awful outcry, but nobody answers the call. "Et les chambres,"
howls she, "et la maison, et tout, tout!" I could not make out what the deuce she would be
at. She looked at my companion, evidently much embarrassed.

"Mais, mon Dieu!" croaked she, "pourrai-je seulement un moment? Tenez là, Massa!" she continued
in an imploring tone, holding out the spoon to me, and making a movement as if she were stirring
something, and then again pointing to the house.

"Que diable as tu?" cried I, out of all patience at this unintelligible pantomime.

The rooms wanted airing and sweeping, she said; they were not fit to receive a stranger in.
She only required a quarter of an hour to put every thing to rights; and mean time, if I would
be so good, for the sake of the honour of the house, just to stir the soup, and keep an eye
upon the ham and buffalo flesh.

Mentally consigning the old Guinea-fowl to the keeping of the infernal deities, I walked towards
the house. My only consolation was, that probably my companion's residence was not in a much
better state than mine, if in so good a one; those Creoles above Alexandria still live half
like Redskins. Monsieur Ménou did not appear at all astonished at my slovenly housekeeping.
When we entered the parlour, we found, instead of sofas and chairs, a quantity of Mexican cotton-seed
in heaps upon the floor; in one corner was a dirty tattered blanket, in another a washing-tub.
The other rooms were in a still worse state: one of the negroes had taken up his quarters in
my bed-chamber, from which the musquitto curtains had disappeared, having passed, probably,
into the possession of the amiable Mrs Bleaks. I hastened to leave this scene of disorder,
and walked out into the court, my indignation and disgust raised to the highest pitch.

"Mais tout cela est bien charmant!" exclaimed the Creole.

I looked at the man; he appeared in sober earnest, but I could not believe that he was so;
and I shook my head, for I was in no jesting humour. The wearisome fellow again took my arm,
and led me towards the huts of my negroes and the cotton-fields. The soil of the latter was
of the richest and best description, and in spite of negligent cultivation, its natural fertility
and fatness had caused the plants to spring up already nearly to the height of a man, though
we were only in the month of June. The Creole looked around him with the air of a connoisseur,
and in his turn shook his head. Just then, the bell on board the steamer rang out the signal
for departure.

"Thank Heaven!" thought I.

"Monsieur," said Ménou, "the plantation is très charmante, mais ce Mistère Bleak is nothing
worth, and you--you are trop gentilhomme."

I swallowed this equivocal compliment, nearly choking as I did so.

"Ecoutez," continued my companion; "you shall go with me."

"Go with you!" I repeated, in unbounded astonishment. "Is the man mad," I thought, "to make
me such a proposition within ten minutes after my return home?"

"Oui, oui, Monsieur, you shall go with me. I have some very important things to communicate
to you."

"Mais, Monsieur," replied I, pretty stiffly, "I do not know what you can have to communicate
to me. I am a good deal surprised at so strange a proposition"----

"From a stranger," interrupted the Creole, smiling. "But I am serious, Mr Howard; you have
come here without taking the necessary precautions. Your house is scarcely ready for your reception--the
fever very dangerous--in short, you had better come with me."

I looked at the man, astonished at his perseverance.

"Well," said he, "yes or no?"

I stood hesitating and embarrassed.

"I accept your offer," I exclaimed at last, scarcely knowing what I said, and starting off
at a brisk pace in the direction of the steamer. Mr Bleaks looked on in astonishment. I bid
him pay more attention to the plantation, and with that brief injunction was about to step
on board, when my five-and-twenty negroes came howling from behind the house.

"Massa, Gor-a-mighty! Massa, Massa, stop with us!" cried the men.

"Massa, dear good Massa! Not go!--Mr Bleaks!" yelled the women.

I made sign to the captain to wait a moment.

"What do you want?" said I, a little moved.

One of the slaves stepped forward and bared his shoulders. Two others followed his example.
They were hideously scarred and seamed by the whip.

I cast stern glance at Bleaks, who grinned a cruel smile. It was a right fortunate thing for
my honour and conscience that my poor negroes had thus appealed to me. In the thoughtlessness
of my nature, I should have followed the Creole, without troubling myself in the least about
the condition or treatment of the five-and-twenty human beings whom I had left in such evil
hands. I excused myself hastily to Monsieur Ménou, promised an early visit, to hear whatever
he might have to say to me, and bade him farewell. Without making me any answer, he hurried
on board, whispered something to the captain, and disappeared down the cabin-stairs. I thought
no more about him, and was walking towards the house, surrounded by my blacks, when I heard
the splashing of the paddles, and the steamer resumed its voyage. At the same instant, somebody
laid hold of my arm. I looked round--it was the Creole.

"This is insupportable!" thought I. "I wonder he did not bring his two daughters with him.
That would have completed my annoyance."

"You will want my assistance with that coquin," said Ménou, quietly. "We will arrange every
thing to-day; to-morrow my son will be here; and the day after you will go home with me."

I said nothing. What would have been the use if I had? I was no longer my own master. This
unaccountable Creole had evidently taken the direction of my affairs entirely into his own hands.

My poor negroes and negresses were crying and laughing for joy, and gazing at me with expectant
looks. I bid then go to their huts; that I would have them called when I wanted them.

"D--n those blackies!" said Mr Bleaks as they walked away: "they want the whip; it's too long
since they've had it."

Without replying to his remark, I told old Sybille to fetch Beppo and Mirza, and signed to
the overseer to leave me. He showed no disposition to obey.

"This looks like an examination," said he sneeringly, "and I shall take leave to be present at it."

"None of your insolence, Mr Bleaks," said I; "be so good as to take yourself off and wait my
orders."

"And none of your fine airs," replied the Mister. "We're in a free country, and you ain't got
a nigger afore ye."

This was rather more than I could stomach.

"Mr Bleaks," said I, "from this hour you are no longer in my employment. Your engagement is
out on the 1st of July; you shall be paid up to that date."

"I don't set a foot over the threshold till I have received the amount of my salary and advances,"
replied the man dryly.

"Bring me your account," said I. My blood was beginning to boil at the fellow's cool impudence.

Bleaks called to his wife, who presently came to the room door. They exchanged a few words,
and she went away again. Meanwhile I opened my portmanteau, and ran my eye over some accounts,
letters, and receipts. Before I had finished, Mrs Bleaks reappeared with the account-books,
which she laid upon the table, and planting herself, with arms akimbo, in the middle of the
room, seemed prepared to witness whatever passed. Her husband lounged into the next apartment
and brought a couple of chairs, upon which he and his better half seated themselves. Truly,
thought I, our much-cherished liberty and equality have sometimes their inconveniences and
disagreeables.

"The 20th December, twenty-five bales cotton, four hogsheads tobacco in leaf, delivered to
Mr Merton," began the overseer; "the 24th January, twenty-five bales cotton and one hogshead
tobacco-leaves."

"Right," said I.

"That was our whole crop," said the man.

"A tolerable falling off from the former year," I observed. "There were ninety-five bales and
fifty hogsheads."

"If it doesn't please the gentleman, he ought to have stopped at home, and not gone wandering
over half the world instead of minding his affairs," retorted Mr Bleaks.

"And leaving us to rot in this fever hole, without money or any thing else," added his moiety.

"And further?" said I to the man.

"That's all. I've received from Mr Merton 600 dollars: 300 more are still comin' to me."

"Very good."

"And moreover," continued Bleaks, "for Indian corn, meal, and hams, and salt pork, and blankets,
and cotton stuffs, I have laid out 400 dollars, making 700, and 4000 hedge-stakes for mending
fences, makes a total of 740 dollars."

I ran into the next room, found a pen and ink upon my dilapidated writing-table, wrote an order
on my banker, and came back again. At any price I was resolved to get rid of this man.

"Allow me," said the Creole, who had been a silent witness of all that had passed, but who
now attempted to take the paper from my hand.

"Pardon me, sir," said I, vexed at the man's meddling; "on this occasion I wish to be my own
counsellor and master."

"Wait but one moment, and allow me to ask a few questions of your overseer," continued the
Creole, no way repulsed by my words or manner. "Will Mr Bleaks be so good as to read over his
account once more?"

"Don't know why I should. Mind your own business," was the churlish answer.

"Then I will do it for you," said Ménou. "The 20th December, twenty-five bales cotton, and
four hogsheads tobacco-leaves, delivered to Mr Merton. Is it not so?"

Mr Bleaks made no answer.

"The 23d December, twenty bales cotton, and one hogshead tobacco, to Messrs Goring. Is it not so?"

The overseer cast a fierce but embarrassed look at the Creole. His wife changed colour.

"The 24th January, twenty-five bales and one hogshead to Mr Groves, and again, on the 10th
February, twenty-two bales and seven hogsheads to Messrs Goring. Is not that the correct account?"

"D----d lies!" stammered the overseer.

"Which I shall soon prove to be truth," said the other. "Mr Howard, you have a claim on this
man for upwards of 2000 dollars, of which he has shamefully cheated you. I shall also be able
to point out another fraud to the extent of 500 dollars."

My faithless servants were pale with rage and confusion; I was struck dumb with surprise at
this unexpected discovery, and at the way in which it was made.

"We must lose no time with these people," whispered the Creole to me, "or they will be off
before you can look round you. Send immediately to Justice T---- for a warrant, and give the
sheriff and constables a hint to be on the look-out. He cannot well escape if he goes down
stream, but he will no doubt try to go up."

I immediately took the needful measures, and sent off Bangor, one of my smartest negroes, to
the justice of peace. "We must write immediately to Goring's house," said the Creole.

In an hour all was ready. At the end of that time the Montezuma steamer came smoking down the
river. We got the captain to come on shore, told him briefly what had happened, gave him our
letters, and were just accompanying him back to his vessel, when we saw a figure creep stealthily
along behind the hedge and wood-stack, and go on board the steamer. It was Mr Bleaks, who had
imagined that, under existing circumstances, a trip to New Orleans might be of service to his
health. We found the worthy gentleman concealed amongst the crew, busily converting himself
into a negro by the assistance of a handful of soot. His intended excursion was, of course,
put an end to, and he was conveyed back to his dwelling. We took precautions against a second
attempt at flight; and the following morning he was placed in safe custody of the authorities.

"But, my dear Monsieur Ménou," said I to the Creole, as we sat after dinner discussing the
second bottle of his Chambertin, of which the excellent man had not forgotten to bring a provision
on shore with him--"whence comes it that you have shown me so much, and such undeserved sympathy
and interest?"

"Ha, ha! You citizen aristocrats cannot understand that a man should take an interest in any
one, or any thing, but himself," replied Ménou, half laughing, half in earnest. "It is incomprehensible
to your stiff, proud, republican egotism, which makes you look down upon us Creoles, and upon
all the rest of the world, as beings of an inferior order. We, on the other hand, take care
of ourselves, but we also occasionally think of our neighbours. Your affairs are perfectly
well known to me, and I hope you do not think I have made a bad use of my knowledge of them."

I shook the worthy man heartily by the hand.

"We are not, in general, particularly fond of you northern gentlemen," continued he; "but you
form an exception. You have a good deal of our French étourderie in your blood, and a good
deal also of our generosity."

I could not help smiling at the naïve frankness with which this sketch of my character was
placed before me.

"You have stopped too long away from your own house, and from people who would willingly be
your friends; and if all that is said be true, you have no particular reason to congratulate
yourself upon the result of your wanderings."

I bit my lips. The allusion was pretty plainly to my misfortune at New York.

"Better as it is," resumed the Creole, with a very slight and good-humoured smile. "A New York
fine lady would be strangely out of her element on a Red River plantation. But to talk of something
else. My son will be here to-morrow; your estate only wants attention, and a small capital
of seven or eight thousand dollars, to become in a year or two as thriving a one as any in
Louisiana. My son will put it all in order for you; and, meanwhile, you must come and stop
a few months with me."

"But, Monsieur Ménou"----

"No buts, Monsieur Howard! You have got the money, you must buy a score more negroes; we will
pick out some good ones for you. To-morrow every thing shall be arranged."

On the morrow came young Ménou, an active intelligent youth of twenty. The day was passed in
visiting the plantation, and in a very few hours the young man had gained my full confidence.
I recommended my interests and the negroes to his care; and the same evening his father and
myself went on board the Ploughboy steamer, which was to convey us to the residence of the Ménous.

CHAPTER THE SECOND.

CREOLE LIFE.

The good Creole had certainly behaved to me in a more Christian-like manner than most of my
own countrymen would have done; and of this I had before long abundant proof. A little after
nightfall, the steamboat paused opposite the house of the justice of peace; and I went on shore
to communicate with him concerning my faithless steward. Although so early, the functionary
was already going to bed, and came out to me in his nightshirt.

"Knew it all, dear Mr Howard," said he with the utmost naïveté; "saw every bale that they stole
from you, or tried to steal from you."

"And for Heaven's sake, man!" I exclaimed, "why did you not put a stop to it?"

"It was nothing to me," was the dry answer.

"If you had only given information to my attorney!"

"No business of mine," returned the man. Then fixing his eyes hard upon me, he commenced a
sort of lecture, for which I was by no means prepared.

"Ah!" said he, pushing his nightcap a little over his left ear, "you young gentlemen come out
of the north with your dozen blackies or so, lay out some two or three thousand dollars in
house and land, and then think you can play the absentee as much as you like, and that you
do us a deal of honour when you allow us to collect and remit your income, for you to spend
out of the country. I'm almost sorry, Mr Howard, that you didn't come six months later."

"In order to leave the scoundrel time to secure his booty, eh?"

"At any rate, he has worked, and has wife and child, and has been useful to the land and country."

"The devil!" I exclaimed, mighty indignant. "Well--for a judge, you have a singular idea of law!"

"It mayn't be Bony's code, nor yet Livingston's, but I reckon it's justice," replied the man
earnestly, tapping his forehead with his forefinger.

I stared at him, but he returned my gaze with interest. There was a deal of backwoods justice
in his rough reasoning, although its morality was indefensible. It was the law of property
expounded à la Lynch. What is very certain is, that in a new country especially, absenteeism
ought to be scouted as a crime against the community. In my case my ramblings had been very
near costing me three thousand hard dollars. As it was, however, they were saved--thanks to
Ménou--and the money still in the hands of Messrs Goring, whose standard of morality on such
subjects was probably not much more rigid than that of the worthy Squire Turnips, and who would,
I doubt not, have bought my cotton of the Evil One himself, if they could have got it half-a-cent
a pound cheaper by so doing. I gave the squire the necessary papers and powers for the adjustment
of my affairs with Bleaks; we shook hands, and I returned on board.

In the grey of the morning the steamboat stopped again. I accompanied Ménou on shore, and we
found a carriage waiting, which, in spite of its singularly antique construction, set off with
us at a brisk pace. I had just fallen asleep in my corner, when I was awakened by a musical
voice not ten paces off, exclaiming, "Les voilà!" I looked up, rubbed my eyes--it was Louise,
the Creole's youngest daughter, who had come out under the verandah to welcome us. Where should
we find one of our northern beauties who would turn out of her warm bed at six in the morning,
to welcome her papa and a stranger guest, and to keep hot coffee ready for them, to counteract
the bad effects of the morning air on the river? Monsieur Ménou, however, did not seem to find
any thing extraordinary in his daughter's early rising, but began enquiring if the people had
had their breakfasts, and were at work. On this and various other subjects, Louise was able
to give him all the information he desired. She must have made astonishingly good use of the
twenty-four hours that had elapsed since her return home, to be versed in all particulars concerning
her sable liege subjects, and to be able to relate so fluently how Cato had run a splinter
into his foot, Pompey had a touch of fever, and fifty other details, which, although doubtless
very interesting to Ménou, made me gape a little. I amused myself by looking round the dining-room,
in which we then were, the furniture and appearance of which rather improved my opinion of
Creole civilization and comfort. The matting that covered the floor was new and of an elegant
design--the sideboard solid and handsome, although prodigiously old-fashioned--tables, chairs,
and sofas were of French manufacture. On the walls were suspended two or three engravings;
not the fight at New Orleans, or Perry and Bainbridge's victories over the British on Champlain
and Erie, but curiosities dating from the reigns of Louis the Fifteenth and Sixteenth. There
was a Frenchified air about the whole room, nothing of the republic, the empire, or the restoration,
but a sort of odour of the genuine old royalist days.

By the time I had completed my inspection, Louise had answered all her father's enquiries;
and we went out to take a look at the exterior of the house. It was snugly situated at the
foot of a conical hillock, the only elevation of any kind to be found for miles around. South,
east, and west, it was enclosed in a broad frame of acacia and cotton trees; but to the north
it lay open, the breath of Boreas being especially acceptable in our climate. A rivulet, very
bright and clear, at least for Louisiana, poured its waters from the elevation before mentioned,
and supplied a tannery, which doubtless contributed much to the healthiness of the neighbourhood.
The house consisted of three parts, built at different times by grandfather, father, and son,
and now united into one. The last and largest portion had been built by the present proprietor;
and it would have been as easy, it struck me, to have pulled down the earlier erections and
have built one compact house. The reason the Creole gave for not having done so, did honour,
I thought, to his heart. "I wish my children constantly to remember," said he, "how hard their
ancestors toiled, and how poorly they lived, in order to ensure better days to those who should
come after them."

"And they will remember it," said a voice close behind us. I turned round.

"Madame Ménou, j'ai l'honneur de vous présenter notre voisin, Monsieur Howard."

"Qui restera longtems chez nous," cried the two girls, skipping forward, and before I had time
to make my bow to the lady, taking me by both hands and dragging me into the house, and through
half a dozen zigzag passages and corridors, to show me my room. This was a sexagonal apartment,
situated immediately over a small artificial lake, through which flowed the rivulet before
mentioned. It was the coolest and most agreeable chamber in the house, on which account it
had been allotted to me. After I had declared my unqualified approval of it, my fair conductresses
took me down stairs again to papa and mamma, the latter of whom I found to be a ladylike woman,
with a countenance expressive of good nature, and manners that at once made one feel quite
at home. She received me as if she had known me for years, without compliments or ceremonious
speeches, and without even troubling herself to screw her features into the sort of holiday
expression which many persons think it necessary to assume on first acquaintance. I was soon
engaged in a conversation with her, in the middle of which a lady and two gentlemen came out
under the verandah and joined us. Their olive complexions and foreign appearance at once attracted
my attention, and I set them down as Spaniards or of Spanish extraction. In this I was not
mistaken. The men were introduced to me as Señor Silveira and Don Pablo. The lady, who was
the wife of the former, was a remarkably lovely creature, tall and elegant in person, with
dark eyes, an aquiline and delicately-formed nose, a beautiful mouth, enclosing pearl-like
teeth. Hitherto I had held our American fair ones to be the prettiest women in the world; but
I now almost felt inclined to alter my opinion. I was so struck by the fair stranger's appearance
that I could not take my eyes off her for some moments; until a sharp glance from her husband,
and (as I fancied) the somewhat uneasy looks of the other ladies, made me aware that my gaze
might be deemed somewhat too free and republican in its duration. I transferred my attention,
therefore, to the breakfast, which, to my no small satisfaction, was now smoking on the table,
and to which we at once sat down. The strangers appeared grave and thoughtful, and ate little,
although the steaks were delicious, the young quails incomparable, and the Chambertin worthy
of an imperial table.

"Who are those foreigners?" said I to Ménou, when the meal was over, and we were leaving the room.

"Mexicans," was the reply; "but who they are I cannot tell you."

"What! do you not know them?"

"I know them perfectly well," he answered, "or they would not be in my house. But even my family,"
whispered he, "does not know them."

Poor wretches! thought I, some more sacrifices on freedom's altar; driven from house and home
by the internal commotions of their country. Things were going on badly enough in Mexico just
then. On the one hand, Guerrero, Bustamente, Santa Anna; on the other, a race of men to whom,
if one wished them their deserts, one could desire nothing better than an Austrian schlague
or a Russian knout, to make them sensible of the value of that liberty which they do not know
how to appreciate.

Meanwhile Julie and Louise were busy, in the next room, passing in review, for the third or
fourth time at least, the thousand-and-one purchases they had made at New Orleans. It was a
perfect picture of Creole comfort to see the mamma presiding at this examination of the laces,
gros de Naples, Indiennes, gauze, and other fripperies, which were passed rapidly through the
slender fingers of her daughters, and handed to her for approval. She found every thing charming;
every thing, too, had its destination; and my only wonder was, how it would be possible for
those ladies to use the hundreds of ells of stuffs that were soon spread out over chairs, tables,
and sofas, and that, as it appeared to me, would have been sufficient to supply half the women
of Louisiana with finery for the next five years. This Creole family was really a model of
a joyous innocent existence; nothing constrained or artificial; but a light and cheerful tone
of conversation, which, however, never degenerated into license, or threatened to overstep
the limits of the strictest propriety. Each person fulfilled his or her allotted task thoroughly
well, and without appearing to find it an exertion. The housekeeping was admirable; to that
point the excellence of the breakfast had borne witness. I recollect once falling violently
in love with a Massachusetts beauty, possessed of a charming face, a sylph-like figure, and
as much sentimentality as would have stocked half a dozen flaxen-haired Germans. It was my
ninth serious attachment if I remember rightly, and desperately smitten I was and remained,
until one unlucky day when the mamma of my adorata invited me to a dinner en famille. The toughness
of the mutton-chops took the edge off my teeth for forty-eight hours, and off my love for ever.
As regards the Ménous, however, I have hardly known them long enough to form a very decided
opinion concerning them. In a few days I shall be able to judge better. Meanwhile we will leave
the ladies, and accompany Monsieur Ménou over his plantation. It is in excellent order, admirably
situated, and capitally irrigated by trenches cut through the cotton and maize fields. There
are above three hundred acres in cultivation--the yearly crop two hundred and fifty bales:
a very pretty income. Only three children, and the plantation comprising nearly four thousand
acres. Not so bad--might be worth thinking of. But what would the world say to it? The aristocratic
Howard to marry a Creole, with, perhaps, a dash of Indian blood in her veins! Yet Ménou has
threescore negroes and negresses, besides a whole colony of ebony children, and the two girls
are not so ill to look at. Roses and lilies--especially Louise. Well, we will think about it.

"Apropos!" said the Creole, as we were walking along a field path. "You have three thousand
dollars with Gorings?"

I nodded.

"And eight thousand with Mr Richards?"

"How do you know that, my dear M. Ménou?"

I must observe, by way of parenthesis, that I had lent these eight thousand dollars to Richards
some five years previously; and although, on more than one occasion during that time, the money
would have been of considerable use to me, I had been restrained from asking it back by my
natural indolence and laziness of character, added to the nonsensical notion of generosity
and devotion in friendship that I had picked out of waggon-loads of novels. Richards, I must
observe, had never hinted at returning the money. I now felt rather vexed, I cannot exactly
say why, at Ménou's being acquainted with the fact of this debt, which I had fancied a secret
between Richards and myself.

"And how do you know that, my dear M. Ménou?"

Ménou smiled at my question. "You forget," said he, "that I am only just returned from New
Orleans. One hears and learns many things when one opens one's ears to the gossip of the haut-ton
of the capital."

"Ha, ha!" said I, a little sarcastically, and glancing at the man's straw hat, and unbleached
trousers and jacket; "Monsieur Ménou--the plain and unsophisticated Monsieur Ménou, also a
haut-ton man?"

"My wife was a M----y; my grandfather was president of the Toulouse parliament," replied the
Creole quietly, to my somewhat impertinent remark.

I bowed. My suspicions concerning Indian blood were unfounded then.

"And have my proceedings and follies really served as tea-table talk to the New Orleans' gossips?"
said I.

"Don't let that annoy you," replied Ménou. "Let the world talk; and you, on your part, prove
to it that you are a more sensible man than it takes you for. Will you put yourself for a while
entirely under my guidance?"

"Very willingly," said I.

"And promise to abide by my advice."

"I promise to do so."

"Then," continued Ménou, "you must let me have, to use as I think proper, eight out of the
eleven thousand dollars which you have lying idle."

"And Richards?" said I.

"Can do without them better than you can. It is very well to be generous, but not to the extent
of injuring yourself. Here is a receipt for the sum in question. I will account to you for
its expenditure."

And with these words he handed me the receipt. He had evidently laid a little plot to force
me to my own good. It went decidedly against the grain with me to requite Richards' hospitality
and friendship by claiming back the money I had lent him, and for which he no doubt had good
use. At the same time, it would have been rather Quixotic to let my own plantation go to rack
and ruin for want of the funds by which he was profiting; and moreover, I had given Ménou my
word to be guided by him; so I put the receipt and my romantics in my pocket, and returned
to the house to give my adviser an order for the money.

Julie and Louise scarcely seemed to observe our entrance. Both had their hands full--the one
with cookery and domestic matters, the other with the ginghams and muslins, which she was rending
and tearing with a vigour that caused the noise to be heard fifty yards off. At supper, however,
they were as merry as ever, and there was no end to their mirth and liveliness. It seemed as
if they had thrown off the burden of the day's toils, and awakened to a new and more joyous
existence. The three Mexicans, with their gravity and grandeur, did not seem to be the least
restraint upon the girls, who at last, however, towards eight o'clock, appeared to grow impatient
at sitting so long still. They exchanged a whisper, and then, rising from table, tripped into
a adjoining room. Presently the harmonious tones of a pianoforte were audible.

"We must not linger here," said the Creole. "Les dames nous en voudraient."

And we all repaired to the drawing-room, an elegant apartment, where the Mexican lady was already
seated at the piano, while the two girls were only waiting partners to begin the dance. Julie
took possession of her father, Silveira stood up with Madame Ménou, Louise fell to my share;
and a cotillon was danced with as much glee and spirit as if both dancers and lookers-on had
been more numerous. Between dancing, music, and lively conversation, eleven o'clock came before
we were aware of it.

"Voici notre manière Créole," said Ménou, as he left me at my bed-room door. "With us every
thing has its time; laughing, talking, working, praying, and dancing: each its appointed season.
We endeavour so to arrange our lives that no one occupation or amusement should interfere with
another. It is only by that means that our secluded domestic existence can be rendered agreeable
and happy. As it is, nous ne nous ennuyons jamais. Good-night."

CHAPTER THE THIRD.

QUITE UNEXPECTED.

Eight weeks had flown by like so many hours. I had become domesticated in the family circle
of the Ménous, and was getting so frugal and economical, that I scarcely knew what a dollar
or a bank-note looked like. Time passed so lightly and pleasantly, and there was something
so patriarchal and delightful in this mode of life, that it was no difficult matter to forget
the world, with its excitements, its pleasures, and its cares. I, at least, rarely bestowed
a thought upon any thing but what was passing immediately around me; whole piles of newspapers
lay unread upon my table, and I became every day more and more of a backwoodsman. I rose early,
slipped into my linen jacket and trousers, and accompanied M. Ménou about his fields and cotton
presses. The afternoon passed in looking over accounts, or in reading and laughing at the discussions
and opinions of Colonel Stone and Major Noah, as set forth in the well-known papers, the Morning
Courier and Commercial Gazette, while the evening of each day was filled up by an impromptu
of some kind, a dance, or a merry chat.

We were sitting one night at supper, when M. Ménou proposed a stag-hunt by torchlight. I caught
eagerly at the idea, and he at once gave orders to make the needful preparations. The two Mexicans
begged to be allowed to accompany us; but almost before they had proffered the request, the
lady interfered to oppose it.

"Don Lop----!" she exclaimed, and then checked herself in the middle of the word she was about
to utter. "Te suplico," she continued in Spanish, after a momentary pause, "I implore you not
to go to-night."

There was something inexpressibly anxious and affectionate in her manner and tone. Her husband
begged her not to make herself uneasy, and promised he would not go; at the same time, it was
evident that he was vexed not to accompany us. I assured the lady there was no danger.

"No danger!" repeated she, in her sonorous Castilian. "No danger! Is nobody aware of the intended
hunt?" said she to Ménou.

"Nobody," was the reply.

It just then occurred to me, that during the whole period of my residence with the Ménous,
neither the Mexican nor his wife had ever gone out of the house and garden. This circumstance,
in combination with the anxiety now shown by the lady, struck me forcibly, and I gazed at Silveira,
while I vainly endeavoured to conjecture whence arose the mystery that evidently environed
him. He was a man of about thirty years of age, with handsome features, a high forehead, and
a pale, but not unhealthy complexion. The expression of his eyes particularly struck me; at
times there flashed from them a fire, indicative of high purposes and strong resolution. There
was a military and commanding air about him, which was very apparent, though he evidently did
his utmost to conceal it; and it was this same manner which had hitherto caused me to treat
him rather coolly, and rendered me little disposed to cultivate his intimacy. His companion,
Don Pablo, was a tolerably insignificant person, who seemed to look up to Silveira and his
wife with a respect and reverence almost amounting to idolatry. Beside him, their suite was
composed of four attendants.

"And is there really no danger?" said the Señora to Ménou. The Creole assured her there was
none. She whispered a few words to her husband, who kissed her hand, and repeated his request
to be of our party--this time without any opposition on his wife's part.

Supper over, we put on our shooting coats, took our guns, and mounted the horses that had been
prepared for us. Six negroes with pitch-pans, and a couple of dogs, had gone on before. The
clock struck ten as we set out. It was a dark sultry night; towards the south distant thunder
was heard, betokening the approach of one of those storms that occur almost daily at that season
and in that country. During the first twenty minutes of our ride, the atmosphere became stiflingly
oppressive; then suddenly a strong wind rushed amongst the trees and bushes, the thunder drew
nearer, and from time to time a flash of forked lightning momentarily illumined the forest.
Again a flash, more vivid than the preceding ones, and a clap, compared to which our northern
thunder would sound like the mere roll of a drum; the dogs began to whine, and kept as near
to the horses as they could. We pushed onward, and were close to a laurel thicket, when the
leading hound suddenly came to a stand, and pricked up his ears. We dismounted, and walked
forward--the negroes preceding us with the pitch-pans. Some twenty pace before us we perceived
four small stars, that glittered like diminutive fire-balls--they were the eyes of two stags
that awaited our approach, in astonishment at the unusual spectacle offered to them. We took
aim--the Creole and myself at one, two Mexicans at the other. "Feu!" cried Ménou. There was
the crack of the four rifles, then a crashing noise amongst the branches, and the clatter of
hoofs, succeeded by cries of Sacre! and Damn ye! and Diabolo! and San Jago! The six pitch-pans
lay smoking and flaring on the ground; the Creole and I had sprung on one side, the negroes
had thrown themselves on their faces in great terror, and the two Dons lay beside them, overthrown
by the rush of one of the stags.

"Santa Virgen!" shouted Don Pablo, mightily alarmed and angry; "Maldito bobo, Señor don Manuel!"

And scrambling to his feet, he proceeded in desperate haste to raise his companion from the
ground, on which he lay motionless, and apparently much hurt.

"Maldito sea el dia! Nuestro Libertador! Santa Anna! Ay de mi!"

"Calla te--hold your tongue!" said Silveira to his alarmed adherent.

On the first appearance of danger, M. Ménou had jumped behind a tree, which had afforded a
sufficient shelter against the mad rush of the terrified stag; but his cry of warning had come
too late for the young Mexican, who had less experience in this kind of chase, and who, standing
full in the path of the furious beast, was knocked down, and run over. I pushed Pablo, who
was howling and wringing his hands, on one side, and with Ménou, proceeded to investigate the
hurts which the other Mexican had received. His coat was torn, and both legs were bleeding,
having been rent by the deer's antlers. Fortunately the wounds were not deep, or he might have
had serious reason to regret the bad aim he had taken. We placed him on his horse, and turned
towards home.

It was midnight when we reached the house with the wounded man, and the carcass of the deer
that Ménou and I had shot. The sight of a white figure at the window of the apartment occupied
by the Mexican, warned us that his wife was watching for his arrival. At the sound of our horses'
feet, she came hurrying down stairs, and out of the house to meet us; and upon beholding her
husband, pale, exhausted, and supported on his horse by couple of negroes, she uttered a shrill
cry, and with the word "Perdido!" sank, almost fainting, on the door steps.

"Gracious God!" cried a second female voice at that moment. "A misfortune! Is it Howard?"

It was Louise, who at that moment made her appearance in her nightdress, breathless with terror.

"Mon Dieu, it is only the Mexican! Thank God!" lisped she, in an accent of infinite joy and relief.

"Thanks, dearest Louise! for those words," said I; "they make me very happy."

I caught her in my arms, and pressed a kiss upon her lips. She struggled from my embrace, and,
blushing deeply, hurried back into her chamber.

I now followed Ménou into the apartment of the Mexican, whose wife was hanging over him, speechless
with grief and anxiety. Ménou had much trouble to get her away from him, in order that he might
examine and dress his hurts. I do not know where the worthy Creole had learned his surgery,
but he was evidently no tyro in the healing art; and he cut out the flesh injured by the antler,
washed and bandaged the wounds, with a dexterity that really inspired me with confidence in
him. The wounds were not dangerous, but might easily have become so, taking into consideration
the heat of the weather, (the thermometer stood at eighty-six,) and the circumstance of their
having been inflicted by a stag's horn. In a short half hour the patient was comfortably put
to bed, and the afflicted Donna Isabella consoled by Ménou's positive assurance, that in a
very few days her husband would be well again. She received this piece of comfort with such
a thoroughly Roman Catholic uplifting of her magnificent eyes, that I could scarcely help envying
the saints for whom that look was intended.

I had held the candle for Ménou during the operation; and as I put it down upon the table,
my eyes fell upon a beautifully executed miniature of the Mexican set in brilliants. Beside
it were lying letters addressed to Don Lopez di Santa Anna, Marischal de Campo; one or two
had the superscription, Lieutenant-general. It was no other than the celebrated Mexican leader,
the second in rank in the would-be republic, who had been sojourning in Monsieur Ménou's house
under the assumed name of Silveira. This discovery afforded me matter for reflection as I repaired
to my bed-chamber; reflections, however, which were soon forced to make way for other thoughts
of a more personally interesting nature. It was the graceful form of Louise that now glided
forward out of the background of my imagination. She had watched, then, anxiously for our return;
and the first rumour of a mishap had drawn from her lips the name of him for whom her heart
felt most interested. During the whole time of my residence with the Ménous, I had never once
dreamed of falling in love with either of the sisters. There was so much activity and occupation
in and out of the house, that I seemed to have had no time to indulge in sentimental reveries.
Now, however, they came crowding upon me. It was so consolatory to an unlucky bachelor, only
just recovering from a recent disappointment, to find himself an object of tender interest
a lovely and innocent girl of seventeen.

At breakfast, the next morning, Louise did not dare to look me in the face. Without distressing
her, however, I managed to look at her more than I had ever before done; and I really wondered
what I had been thinking about, during the preceding two months, not to have sooner found out
her manifold charms and perfections. Her elder sister was too stout for my taste, altogether
on too large a scale, and with too little of the intellectual in the expression of her features;
but Louise is unquestionably a charming creature, slender and graceful, with a sweet archness
in her countenance, and hands and feet that might serve for models. In short, I began to think
seriously that all past disappointments would be more than compensated by the affection of
such a woman. I must see first about setting my house in order, thought I.

"Will you be so kind as to lend me your carriage to go as far as the river?" said I to the Creole.

"With much pleasure. A mere ride, I suppose?"

"No; a little more. I wish to see how things are getting on at my plantation."

"You are going away?" exclaimed Madame Ménou and Julie. Louise said nothing, but she raised
her eyes to mine for the first time that morning.

"It is necessary that I should do so; but, if you will allow me, I will pay you another visit
before very long."

The roses had left the cheeks of poor Louise, and I fancied I saw a tear glittering in her
eyes. Several minutes elapsed without any body's speaking. At last the silence was broken by
the Creole.

"You seemed very happy here, I thought," said he. "Has any thing happened?"

"Yes; something of great importance to me. I must really leave you immediately," was my answer.

Mean time, Louise had left the room. I hurried after her, and overtook her before she reached
her chamber.

"Louise!" said I. She was weeping. "I leave you to-day."

"So I heard."

"In order to arrange my house."

"My brother is doing that already," said she. "Why leave us?"

"Because I would fain see with my own eyes if all is ready and fitting for the reception of
my Louise. When I have done so, will you follow me home as my beloved wife?"

For one second she looked in my face, her features lighted up with a beam of confiding joy,
and then her gaze fell in timid confusion on the ground.

"Take her, dear Howard!" said her father, who had followed us unperceived. "She is the best
of daughters, and will make as good a wife."

Louise sank into my arms. An hour later I was on my way homewards.

At last, then, I was irrevocably pledged, and my bachelorship drew near its close. I felt that
I had made a judicious choice. Louise was an excellent girl, sensible, prudent, active, and
cheerful--uniting, in short, all the qualities desirable in a backwoodsman's wife. It was strange
enough that all this should only have occurred to me within a few hours. I had been living
two months under the same roof with her, and yet the idea of her becoming my wife had never
entered my head till the preceding night.

It was four in the afternoon when I reached my plantation, which I was very near passing without
recognising it, so great was the change that had taken place since my last visit. The rubbish
and tree-trunks that had then encumbered the vicinity of the house had disappeared--the garden
had been increased in size, and surrounded by a new and elegant fence--a verandah, under which
two negro carpenters were at work, ran along the front and sides of the house. As I walked
up from the boat, young Ménou came to meet me. I shook him heartily by the hand, and expressed
my gratitude for the trouble he had taken, and my wonder at the astonishing progress the improvements
of all kinds had made.

"How have you possibly managed to effect all these miracles?" said I.

"Very easily," replied Ménou. "You sent us fifteen negroes; my father lent me ten of his. With
these, and the twenty-five you had before, we were able to make progress. We are now putting
the finishing-stroke to your cotton press, which was fearfully out of order."

I walked with a thankful heart through the garden, and stepped into the verandah. The rooms
that looked out upon it were all fitted up in the most comfortable manner. In the principal
bedroom, a negro girl was working at the elegant musquitto curtains. Old Sybille, in a calico
gown of the most glaring colours, her face shining with contentment, was brushing away some
invisible dust from the furniture in the parlour.

"By the by," said young Ménou, opening a writing-desk, "here are several letters that have
come for you within the last few days, and that amidst my various occupations I have quite
forgotten to forward."

I sat down and opened them. Two were from Richards, the earliest in date, inviting me to go
and stay with him again. The more recent one renewed the invitation, and expressed the writer's
surprise at my having become on a sudden so domestic a character. In a postscript he added,
as a sort of inducement to me to visit him, that he was daily expecting a friend of his wife's,
the beautiful Emily Warren. Not a syllable, however, about the eight thousand dollars, which
surprised me not a little; for Richards was by no means a man to remain silent on a subject
affecting his worldly interest, and I fully expected he would have felt and expressed some
pique or resentment at my sudden withdrawal of my funds. But, on the contrary, the letter I
had given to Ménou, in which I requested Richards to pay over the money in question to the
Creole, was not even alluded to.

"There are matters in these letters," said I to young Ménou, "which oblige me to return immediately
to your father's house."

"Indeed!" cried the young man, much astonished.

"Yes," replied I. "I hear a steamboat coming down the river--I will be off at once."

He looked at me in great surprise; Sybille shook her head. But my character is so impatient
and impetuous, that when I have resolved on any thing, I can never bear to defer its execution
a moment. Besides, there was really nothing to detain me at my plantation. The arrangements
and improvements that I had reckoned on finding only half effected were complete; and every
moment that now elapsed before I could welcome Louise as mistress of my house and heart, seemed
to me worse than wasted. I hurried down to the river and hailed the steamer. It was the same
that had brought me home two months previously.

"Mr Howard," said the captain joyously, as I stepped on board the vessel, "I am right glad
to see you on my deck again. Your plantation looks quite another thing. You are really a worker
of wonders."

I hardly knew how to accept this undeserved praise. One of the best points in our American
character is the universal respect paid to industry and intellect. The wealthy idler who carries
thousands in his pocket-book, may, amongst us, look in vain for the respect and flattery which
a tithe of his riches would procure him in many other countries; while the less fortunate man,
who makes his way and earns his living by hand and head work, may always reckon on the consideration
of his fellow-citizens. On my return to Louisiana I had been thought nothing of. I was a drone
in the hive--with money, but without skill or perseverance. My overseer was more looked up
to than myself; but the recent change in the state of my plantation, attributed, however wrongly,
to my presence, had caused a revolution in people's ideas; and I was now met on all sides with
open hands and smiling countenances. The change, I must confess, was a gratifying one for me.

The Ménous were at breakfast the next morning, when I arrived, heated by my walk from the river,
opposite to the parlour window. I was received with a cry of welcome.

"So soon back! Nothing wrong, I hope?" said Ménou.

"Nothing," replied I dryly; "I have only forgotten something."

"And what is that?"

"My Louise," was my answer, as I seated myself beside the blushing girl. "On arriving at my
wilderness," I continued, "I found it converted into so blooming a paradise, that I should
really be heartbroken if it were to remain any longer without its Eve. To-morrow, please God,
we will start for New Orleans, to put in requisition the service of Père Antoine and the worthy
rector."

There was a cry of consternation from the papa and mamma.

"There is nothing ready--point de trousseau--nothing in the world. Do not be so unreasonable,
dear Howard."

"Our Yankee damsels," replied I, laughing, "if they have only got a pair of shoes and a gown
and a half, consider themselves perfectly ready to be married."

"Well, let him have his way," said Ménou. "We can manage, I daresay, to equip the bride a little
better than that."

"Apropos," said I to Ménou, while the ladies were consulting together, and recovering from
the flurry into which my precipitation had thrown them--"the eight thousand dollars? Richards
says nothing about them."

"It was only an experiment I tried with you," replied my future father-in-law, smiling. "I
wished to see if you have sufficient firmness of character to ensure your own happiness. Had
you not come victoriously out of the little ordeal, Louise should never have been wife of yours,
if all the plantations on the Mississippi had called you master. As to the money, I advanced
what was wanted. You can settle with Mr Richards in the way most agreeable to yourself."

The next morning we set off for New Orleans--Ménou and Louise, Julie, who was to act as bridesmaid,
and myself. Madame Ménou remained at home. I could have wished to have had young Ménou as my
bridesman; but his presence was necessary at the plantation, and we were obliged to content
ourselves with receiving his good wishes as we passed. After a twenty hours' voyage we reached
the capital, and took up our quarters in the house of a sister of Ménou's.

I was hurrying to find Father Antoine, when, in turning the corner of the cathedral, I ran
bolt up against Richards. After the first greeting, and without giving him time to ask me questions--

"Wait for me at the Merchant's Coffeehouse," said I; "in a quarter of an hour I will meet you
there."

And I left him in considerable astonishment at my desperate haste. I found Father Antoine and
the rector, and then hurried off to keep my appointment.

"Do you know," said I to Richards, as I dragged him through the streets, "that I am thinking
seriously of becoming a Benedict?"

"Well," said he, "you must come home with me then. Emily Warren is arrived. She is a charming
girl, and a great friend of my wife's. You will be sure of Clara's good word, and I really
think Emily will exactly suit you."

"I am afraid not," replied I, as I turned into the church.

Richards opened his eyes in amazement when he saw Louise, with her aunt, sister, and the whole
of the bridal party, walking up the aisle, and Father Antoine standing at the altar in his robes.

"What does this mean?" said he.

I made no answer, but let matters explain themselves. Ten minutes after, Louise Ménou was my wife.

FOOTNOTES:

{A} Greece under the Romans. BY GEORGE FINLAY, K.R.G. William Blackwood & Sons. Edinburgh and
London. 1844.

       *       *       *       *       *

Edinburgh: Printed by Ballantyne and Hughes, Paul's Work.

