"Father," replied Walter, "it was so, and I deeply grieve over it.  I tried to persuade her
at the time--for we both knew him too well as he lay on the ground at our feet senseless and
bleeding--I tried to persuade her that it was her duty to go with him; but she would not hear
of it; she insisted on returning home at once, and said that he would be well looked after
at the hospital, and that if she were to go to him he would only swear at her.  So at last
I gave it up; and she would not be pacified till I promised not to mention to any one that
I knew the wretched man to be her husband.  I suppose I was wrong in giving this promise,--I
have never felt comfortable about it; but she was so miserable till I made it that I gave her
my word; and that is just how it was."

"I quite understand you," said his father.  "Poor Julia! we must make allowances for her; but
she has plainly fallen short of her duty in the matter.  I trust, however, that she has now
had a wholesome lesson, poor thing, and that for her children's sake, and all our sakes, she
will be content with her own home, and more ready to fulfil her duties as a mother."

Amos did not speak, but he was deeply moved.  He felt that his sister's proper place would
have been at the bedside of the man who, whatever his sins against her, was still her husband,
and was when the accident had happened, for anything she knew to the contrary, crushed and
dying, and about to be speedily separated from her for ever in this world.  But she had not
so seen her duty; she had shrunk from the pain, the sacrifice. She could not bear the thought
of the interruption to her recovered home comforts and pleasures which the work of a nurse
to the stricken man would involve.  And could Amos make her see and acknowledge that she had
erred?  He feared not.

Dinner-time came.  Julia was in her place as usual.  There was a gloom over all the party,
but no one alluded to the sad cause.  And so, things reverted to their ordinary channel in
a few days.  Julia had become again full of life and spirits, though to close observers there
was something forced and unnatural about her mirth and vivacity.  And one thing Amos noticed
with special pain--it was that she carefully avoided ever being alone with him; if they were
accidentally left together by themselves, she would in a moment or two make some excuse for
leaving the room.

Thus did things continue, till summer had given place to the rich beauties of autumn.  It was
on a mellow October morning that the post brought a letter for Amos in a handwriting which
was not familiar to him, and from a locality with which he was not acquainted.  It was as follows:--

"Dear Sir,--In the course of my duties as Scripture reader in the town of Collingford, I have
come upon a case which has greatly interested me. The reason for my troubling you about it
will appear further on in my letter.  I was calling about a fortnight ago on a poor widow woman
who lives in one of the lowest parts of this town, in a miserable house, or rather part of
it.  She asked me to step into a small back room and see a lodger whom she had taken in some
days before, and who was in a very bad state of health, and indeed not likely to recover. 
I did as she desired, and found a wretched-looking man seated in an old armchair, bowed together,
and racked with a severe cough.  One of his arms was in a sling, and he seemed to be suffering
considerable pain in his left side.  There was something in his appearance different from that
of ordinary tramps; and when I heard him speak, I saw at once that he must have had a good
education.  I could make very little out of him at first, for he was very shy and reserved,
and seemed terribly annoyed when I read a chapter and had a prayer with him the first visit,
and he said some very sharp things against religion and the Bible.  However, I persevered,
and he got a little softened, especially when I brought him a little help and a few comforts
from some Christian friends who had got interested in him.  He has always avoided speaking
about himself and his past history, and I suspect that he is hiding from the police.  However,
I have nothing to do with that, and am truly sorry for him.  This morning I called and found
him much worse.  I asked him if he would like me to get him into the hospital, but he would
not hear of it.  Then I asked him if I could do anything more for him.  He did not speak for
some time, and then he said, `Yes.  Write a few lines for me to Mr Amos Huntingdon'--he gave
me your address--`and just tell him how I am.  He will know me by the name of Orlando Vivian.'
`Shall I say anything more?'  I asked.  `No,' he said; `please, just say that, and leave it.'
So, dear sir, I have followed the poor gentleman's wishes.  I call him a gentleman, for I think
he must have been a gentleman once.  Poor man!  I fear he is dying, and cannot be here very
long.  At the same time, I feel it to be my duty to tell you that there is a bad fever raging
in the town, and the place where he lives is anything but clean and healthy.  And now I have
only to ask your pardon for troubling you with this long letter, and to say that I shall be
very happy to do anything for your friend, if such he is, that lies in my power, or to meet
you at the Collingford station, should you think it right to come down and see him.--I am,
dear sir, respectfully yours, James Harris."

It hardly need be said that this letter moved Amos deeply.  What could be done?  What was his
duty?  What was his sister's duty?  He felt in perplexity, so he took the trouble and laid
it out before Him who bids us cast on him every care.  Then he betook himself to his aunt's
room and read the letter to her.  "What shall I do, dear aunt?" he asked.

"The question, I think, rather is," replied Miss Huntingdon, "What ought not your sister to
do?  Clearly, to my mind, it is her duty to go to her poor dying husband, forgive all if he
shows himself really penitent, and be with him to the last."

"Such is my conviction too," said Amos sadly; "but I fear that Julia will not see her duty
in the light in which we see it.  May I call her, and just read the letter to her before you?"

"Yes, dear boy, if you like."  So Amos repaired to the dining-room, where his sister and Walter
were engaged in a brisk conversation.

"What's amiss with you now?" asked Walter, noticing the serious look on his brother's face.
"You ought to be very bright this beautiful morning.  Julia and I have been planning a nice
little scheme for this afternoon.  I am hoping, with the gamekeeper's help, to bag two or three
brace of partridges before dinner-time.  I can drive Julia to the gamekeeper's hut, and she
can take a sketch or two while I am shooting. The woods are looking beautiful now with their
autumnal tints, and will give lovely little bits for a sketch.  Won't you join us?"

"Well," replied Amos gravely, "it would be very nice; but just now I have a rather important
matter I want to talk to Julia about, if she will just spare me a few minutes, and come with
me to my aunt's room."

"Dear me! what can you want with me?" asked his sister, turning deep red and then very pale.
"I'm sure I don't want to talk about anything dismal this delicious morning.  Oh! don't look
so serious, Amos; you are always in the dolefuls now.  Why can't you be cheerful and jolly,
like Walter?"

"I am sorry to trouble you," replied her brother, "but there is a cause just now.  I shall
not keep you long, and then you can return to your jollity if you will."  These last words
he uttered in a tone of reproach which touched her spite of herself.

She rose and followed him in silence to her aunt's room.  When all were seated, Amos produced
the Scripture reader's letter, and, expressing his deep sorrow to have to wound his sister,
read it slowly out in a subdued voice.  Julia sprang from her seat, and having snatched the
letter from her brother's hand, read it through several times, her bosom heaving and her eyes
flashing, and a few tears bursting forth now and then.  "It's a hoax," she cried at last; "one
of his hoaxes.  It can't be true."

"I fear it is true," said Amos calmly.  "To me the letter bears all the marks of truth.--Don't
you think so, Aunt Kate?"

"Yes, surely," replied Miss Huntingdon sadly; "I cannot doubt its genuineness."

Julia then tossed the letter to her brother and sat down.  "And what is it, then," she asked
bitterly, and with knitted brows, "that you want me to do?"

"I think, dear Julia," said her aunt, "the real question is, What is it your duty to do?"

"Oh yes," she cried passionately; "my duty!  Duty's a very fine thing. It's always `duty, duty.'
But there are two parties to duty: has he done his duty?  He has beaten me, starved me, cursed
me--is that doing his duty?  And now I am to go and nurse him in a vile fever-smitten hole,
and lose my life, and so deprive my children of a mother, because it's my duty.  I don't see
it at all."

Both her hearers looked deeply distressed.  Then Amos said, "Still he is your husband, and dying."

"Dying!" she exclaimed sneeringly; "not he--it's all pretence.  If anything common could have
killed him, such as kills other people, he would have been dead ages ago.  But he isn't like
other men; he has got a charmed life.  He'll be all right again after a while."

"And you will not go to him?" asked Amos, calmly and sadly.

"No, certainly not," she cried indignantly.  "I've suffered more than enough already for him
and from him.  Besides, if you talk of duty, it is surely my duty to think of the dear children,
and not run the risk of bringing back the fever to them, supposing I should not be killed by
it myself."

"Then," said her brother deliberately, "I shall go."

"You, Amos!" exclaimed both his aunt and sister.

"Yes," he said; "my own duty is now plain to me.  The poor man has let me know his case; he
is my sister's husband, however unworthy a husband; he is dying, and may be eternally lost
body and soul, and by going I may be made the means of helping on the good Scripture reader's
work.  The poor dying man's heart is softened just now, and it may be that when he hears the
words of God's truth, and experiences kindness from one who has been treated by him as I have
been, he may be led to seek and find pardon before he is taken away."

"But," said his aunt anxiously, "you will be running a great risk of catching the fever, and
may lose your own health, and even your life."

"I know it," he said; "I have counted the cost; and should I be taken away, I shall merely
have done my duty, and"--his voice trembled as he proceeded--"I shall be the one best spared
and least missed in the household."  As he uttered these last words, his sister, who had been
gradually crouching down shiveringly on to the floor, clasped her hands over her face and wept
bitterly, but she uttered no word.  Then Amos turned to his aunt and said, "Will you, dear
aunt, kindly explain to my father how matters are, and why I am gone?--Poor Julia!" he added,
raising her up gently and kissing her forehead, "all may yet be well. May I take him one kind
word from you?"  She did not speak, but her bosom heaved convulsively.  At last she said in
a hoarse, quivering whisper, "Yes, what you like; and--write and tell me if he is really dying."
Then she rushed out of the room to her own chamber, but appeared at luncheon with all traces
of emotion vanished from her features.

