From the other side of the log partition his captor had declared himself to be the keeper of
hell. Even now he could hear the words maundered through the chinks: "Never got another drop
of water for a million years and still more, and him a burning up and a roasting up, and his
tongue a lolling out, all of a sizzle. Now wasn't that fine--because folks said he'd likely
gone crazy about religion!"

Other times his captor would declare himself to be John the Baptist making straight the paths
in the wilderness. Again he would quote passages of scripture, some of them hideous mockeries
to the tortured prisoner, some strangely soothing and suggestive.

But a search had been made for the missing man and, quite by accident, they had found him,
at a time when it seemed to him his mind must go with his captor's. His recovery from the physical
blight of this captivity had been prompt; but there were those who sat under him who insisted
that ever after he had been palpably less insistent upon the feature of divine retribution
for what might be called the merely technical sins of heterodoxy. Not that unsound doctrine
was ever so much as hinted of him; only, as once averred a plain parishioner, "He seemed to
bear down on hell jest a lee-tle less continuously."

As for his young wife, she had ever after professed an unconquerable aversion for those sermons
in which God's punishment of sinners was set forth; and this had strangely been true of their
daughter, born but a little time after the father's release from the maniac's cabin. She had
grown to womanhood submitting meekly to an iron rule; but none the less betraying an acute
repugnance for certain doctrines preached by her father. It seemed to the old man a long way
to look back; and then a long way to come forward again, past the death of his girl-wife while
their child was still tender, down to the amazing iniquity of that child's revolt, in her thirty-first
year. Dumbly, dutifully, had she submitted to all his restrictions and severities, stonily
watching her girlhood go, through a fading, lining and hardening of her prettiness. Then all
at once, with no word of pleading or warning, she had done the monstrous thing. He awoke one
day to know that his beloved child had gone away to marry the handsome, swaggering, fiddle-playing
good-for-nothing who had that winter given singing lessons in the village.

Only once after that had he looked upon her face--the face of a withered sprite, subdued by
time. The hurt of that look was still fresh in him, making his mind turn heavily, perhaps a
little remorsefully, to the two little boys asleep in the west bedroom. Had the seed of revolt
been in her, from his own revolt against his father? Would it presently bear some ugly fruit
in her sons?

From a drawer in the table he took a little sheaf of folded sheets, and read again the last
letter that had come from her; read it not without grim mutterings and oblique little jerks
of the narrow old head, yet with quick tender glows melting the sternness.

"You must not think I have ever regretted my choice, though every day of my life I have sorrowed
at your decision not to see me so long as I stayed by my husband. How many times I have prayed
God to remind you that I took him for better or worse, till death should us part."

This made him mutter.

"Clayton has never in his life failed of kindness and gentleness to me"--so ran the letter--"and
he has always provided for us as well as a man of his uncommon talents could."

Here the old man sniffed in fine contempt.

