LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

NO. II.--TO SOCIAL AMBITION.

DEAR SIR, OR MADAM,

I had not intended to annoy you with another letter. But since I addressed you last week I
have received one or two communications--not from you, bien entendu, for you are too wary to
dispute the accuracy of what I have written; but from concrete human beings, who pretend to
speak on your behalf, and deny that I have "proved my case." I might answer by saying that
I never set out to prove a case--that I wished merely to enjoy a friendly chat with you, and
to appeal to your clemency on behalf of the large class whom I ventured to represent by the
DABCHICKS. "But," says one of my detractors, in a letter now lying before me, "you have only
given one instance. You have talked grandly about Queens, and Dukes, and actresses, and, in
the end, you have put us off with a wretched story about the parvenu DABCHICK. For my part,
I refuse to admit your authority until you prove, in greater detail, that you really know something
of the subject on which you presumed to write." "Sir," I reply, "you are brusque, and somewhat
offensive in the style you use towards me. For my part I do not admit that you are entitled
to an answer from me, and I have felt disposed to pass you by in silence. But since there may
be other weak vessels of your sort, I will do violence to myself, and pen another letter."
And thus, my dear SOCIAL AMBITION, I once more take the liberty of addressing you, not without
an inward tremor lest you should pounce upon me unawares, and cause me to expiate my rashness
by driving me from the calm seclusion in which I spend my days, to mingle with the feverish
throng who wrangle for place and precedence, myself the most feverish wrangler of them all.
But, on the principle that we are both, in some sort, hawks, I think I may trust you to spare
my eyes, while I remind you of one or two incidents in which you bore a part.

And first BLENKINSOP knocks at the door of my memory. I bid him enter, and I see a tall slim
youth, not ill-favoured, wearing well-cut clothes, and carrying a most beautiful, gold-topped
Malacca cane delicately in his hand. He is smoking a cigar, and complains to me that his life
is a succession of aimless days, and that he cannot find any employment to turn his hand to.
That very night, I remember, he dined with me. We went to the play together, and afterwards
looked in at Lady ALICIA PARBOIL's dance. Dear Lady ALICIA, how plump she was, and how good-natured,
and how well she married her fiddle-headed daughters. Her husband too, that clumsy, heavy-witted
oaf, how cunningly and how successfully withal she schemed for his advancement. Quid plura?
you knew her well, she was devoted to you. I only speak of her to remind you that it was in
her hospitable rooms that GERVASE BLENKINSOP met you--and his fate. He had danced for the second
time that evening with ELVIRA PARBOIL, and, having returned that blushing virgin to her accustomed
corner, was just about to depart when the ample form of Lady ALICIA bore down upon him: "Oh,
Mr. BLENKINSOP," her Ladyship began, "I really cannot allow you to go before I introduce you
to Mr. WILBRAHAM. I hear," she continued, "he has just lost his Private Secretary, and who
knows but that--" Here she paused, and archly tapping her protégé's cheek with her fan, she
bore him off to introduce him to the Cabinet Minister. I watched the ceremony. Something whispered
to me that BLENKINSOP was lost. Must I go through the whole painful story? He became Private
Secretary to his new Right Honourable friend, and from that moment he was a changed man. His
cheery good-nature vanished. Instead of it he cultivated an air of pompous importance. One
by one he weeded out his useless friends, and attached to himself dull but potentially useful
big wigs who possessed titles and influence. At one of our last speaking interviews (we only
nod distantly now when we meet), he hinted that in the next distribution of honours his name
might be expected. It appeared, but, alas for gratitude, he had to satisfy himself with a paltry
K.C.M.G., which his wife (I forgot to say that he married ELVIRA) despises. He is now a disappointed
man whom his friends, if he had any, would pity. He is getting on in life; the affectations
he so laboriously cultivated no longer amuse. The witlings of his Clubs remark openly upon
his ridiculous desire to pose as an earth-shaking personage, and when he goes home he has to
listen to a series of bitter home-truths from the acrid ELVIRA. Would it not, I ask, have been
better for Sir GERVASE BLENKINSOP, K.C.M.G., to have continued his ancient and aimless existence,
than to have had a fallacious greatness dangled before his eyes to the end of his disappointed,
but aspiring life?

One more instance, and I have done. Do you remember TOMMY TIPSTAFF at Trinity? I do. He was,
of course, a foolish youth, but he might have had a pleasant life in the fat living for which
his family intended him. In his second year at the University, he met Sir JAMES SPOOF, an undergraduate
Baronet, of great wealth, and dissolute habits. Poor TOMMY was dazzled by his new friend's
specious glare and glitter, and his slapdash manner of scattering his money. They became inseparable.
The same dealer supplied them with immense cigars, they went to race meetings, and tried to
break the ring. When Sir JAMES wished to gamble, TOMMY was always ready to keep the bank. And
all the time poor Mrs. TIPSTAFF, in her country home, was overjoyed at her darling's success
in what she told me once was the most brilliant and remarkable set at Cambridge.

Where is TOMMY now? The other day a ragged man shambled up to me, with a request that I should
buy a box of lights from him. There was a familiar something about him. Could it be TOMMY?
The question was indirectly answered, for, before I could extract a penny, or say a word, he
looked hard at me, turned his head away, and made off as fast as his rickety legs would carry
him. Most men must have had a similar experience, but few know, as I do, that you, my dear
SOCIAL AMBITION, urged the wretched TOMMY to his destruction.

On the whole, I dislike you. Those who obey you become the meanest of God's creatures.

Pardon my candour, and believe me, Yours, without respect, DIOGENES ROBINSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHOR! AUTHOR!

LORD COLERIDGE's summing up to the Jury in the action taken by Jones (author of burlesques)
v. Roberts (player of the same) was excellent common sense, a quality much needed in the case.
Mr. JONES,--not our ENERY HAUTHOR, whose contempt for Burlesque generally is as well known
as he can make it,--wrote to Mr. ARTHUR ROBERTS, formerly of the Music Halls and now of the
legitimate Stage, styling him "Governor," and professed that he would "fit him to a T." Poeta
nascitur non "fit."--and the born burlesque-versifier was true to what would probably be his
comic version of the Latin proverb. But the inimitable ARTHUR, who does so much for himself
on the stage, hardly required any extraneous help, and at last rejected the result of poor
JONES's three months' hard labour at the Joe-Millery mill. This, however, was no joke to JONES,
who straightway decided that this time he would give the inimitable ARTHUR something quite
new in the way of a jest; and so, dropping the dialogue, he came to "the action," which, in
this instance, was an action-at-law. Whatever Mr. ROBERTS may have thought of the words, he
will hardly have considered the result of this case as "good business" from his own private
and peculiar point of view. But all Dramatic Authors,--with the solitary exception of Mr. YARDLEY,
formerly famous in the field, but now better known in "The Lane," at pantomime time, than to
any Court where he has a legal right to appear in wig and gown,--from the smallest, who write
to please a "Governor," up to the biggest, who write to please themselves, should rejoice at
the decision in the case of Jones v. Roberts.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN OMISSION AT THE GUILDHALL LUNCHEON.--On the occasion of the Civic Banquet to the German
EMPEROR, an Alderman, distinguished for his courtesy to strangers, and his appreciation of
good dishes, especially of anything at all spicy, wished to know why, as a compliment to their
Imperial guest, they had omitted "pickelhaubes" from the bill of fare? He had understood, from
well-informed friends, that the EMPEROR seldom went anywhere without some "pickelhaubes," whatever
they might be, as he himself, the worthy Alderman, had never had the opportunity of tasting one.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

JOLLY JULY.

  The storm of rain comes swirling down,
    Our helpless flow'rets droop and die;
  The thunder crashes o'er the town--
            In wet July.

  Our cricket-match is spoilt, the stumps
    We draw beneath a drenching sky;
  Then homeward wend in doleful dumps--
            In wet July.

  The lawn's a lake, whereon there float
    The balls that erst would o'er it fly;
  We can't play tennis from a boat,
            In wet July.

  Our garden-party's ruined quite,
    Of invitations friends fight shy;
  They wisely shun the sloppy sight
            In wet July.

  Take that old aneroid away,
    A new barometer we'll try;
  With hope for haply one fine day--
            In wet July.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEATING THE RECORD.--Mrs. MALAPROP's "Cerberus, as three single gentlemen rolled into one,"
was "not in it" last week with H.R.H. the Prince of WALES, who, in the course of the Royal
Entertainments given to our Imperial Cousin-German, appeared as "a host of illustrious personages."
An admirable performance.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NURSERY ECHO FROM CARLOW.

  PARNELL put the KETTLE on,
    TIM HEALY came it rather strong,
  HAMMOND was the people's man,
          And he's now M.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ALICE IN THUNDERLAND.

    Alice ... The TH-ND-R-R. White Queen ... H-RC-RT.
    Red Queen ... CH-MB-RL-N.

"I'll tell you what it is, your Majesty," said ALICE in a severe tone (she was always rather
fond of scolding the White Queen), "it'll never do to swagger about all over the place like
that! Dignitaries have to be dignified, you know!" But she found it rather difficult to be
quite civil to them--especially the White Queen, who had once been rather a favourite with
her, but at whom she now never lost an opportunity of girding.

"Always speak the truth," said the Red Queen (cocking her nose at the White)--"think before
you speak--and write it down afterwards. It's safest, if you're dealing with some persons."

"That's just what I complain of," said the White Queen, loftily. "You couldn't tell the truth--about
that Table--if you tried with both hands."

"I don't tell the truth with my hands," the Red Queen objected, icily.

"Nobody said you did," said the White Queen. "Nobody said you told it anyhow. I said you couldn't
if you tried. And you don't try either. So there!"

"She's in that state of mind," said the Red Queen, "that she wants to deny something--only
she doesn't know what to deny!"

"A nasty vicious temper," the White Queen remarked; and then there was an uncomfortable silence
for a month or two.

The White Queen broke the silence by saying to the Red Queen, "I invite you to ALICE's Party--which
used to be neutral ground--to explain, if you can, that nondescript nonsense of yours about
National Councils as a substitute for Home Rule."

