Perhaps it is partly by reason of its contrast with the wild, stark coast that the far-famed
Vale of Lanherne has won its reputation. It is a spot that has excited the enthusiasm of painters,
versifiers, and guide-books; yet probably its chief charm is the surprise of its sylvan and
pastoral character in a tract of country that is not notable for either. Counties farther east
can show hundreds of such scenes; but the quiet rusticity and woodland features here come with
a special touch of soothing and repose after the long, bare moorlands, sandy dunes, and stern,
naked cliffs. There is also another attraction--the convent of Lanherne, once the manor-house
of the Arundells. Mr. Baring-Gould says that "Lanherne lies in the loveliest vale in Cornwall";
Mr. Hind says, "the Vale of Lanherne did not rouse my enthusiasm." Most visitors agree with
the Rector of Lew Trenchard. The mansion, now the convent, came into possession of the "great
Arundells" in 1231 by marriage with a daughter of John de Lanherne. It was in the reign of
Henry VII. that a later Arundell purchased Wardour Castle, in Wiltshire, and gifted it to his
son Sir Thomas, who was married to a sister of Catherine Howard; and it is at Wardour that
the family of Arundell still flourishes. The family remained Catholic through the Reformation,
and the sanctuary lamp in Lanherne Chapel was never extinguished; so that English Catholics
have a very special regard for this spot, where the light of their faith still burns brightly
after so many centuries. The front of the old house dates from 1580; but many buildings have
been added of late years for the accommodation of the nuns, whose seclusion is very strict.
It came into possession of the Carmelites in 1794, when a party of nuns, driven from France
by the Revolution, came to England, having in vain tried to find safety at Antwerp. They were
given this mansion by Henry, eighth Lord Arundell of Wardour.

Here they have been ever since, the settlement having been much enriched and enlarged more
recently. Their presence has drawn other Catholics to the spot, so that the district is quite
mediæval in its spiritual atmosphere; besides which many visitors not of the faith come hither
to worship in the beautiful chapel, and to try to obtain glimpses of the fair recluses. Having
once taken the veil, these nuns never again leave the precincts. They attend the services in
a gallery concealed by a grating; they take exercise in a high-walled garden; when they die
they are buried in the convent cemetery. There cannot fail to be a touch of sadness in thinking
of these ladies thus secluded from the "stir of existence," severed from the interests of their
brothers and sisters, not even having the fair country-side and grand coast as a feast for
their eyes, their lives spent in ceaseless prayer and liturgy. It is strange that such things
should be, and we can only imagine the haven to be welcome to those who, in their declining
years, crave perfect peace and retirement after the stress of uttermost sorrow or restless
buffetings. There are paintings of Vandyke and Rubens in the chapel. Outside the door is an
old cross, brought from Gwinear, which is supposed to be Anglo-Saxon; its inscriptions have
never been deciphered. They are thought to be in both Saxon and Latin. There is a secret chamber
in the older part of the convent, dating from those Elizabethan days when priests lurked about
the Cornish country-side, nourishing their faith in the villagers, who were very slow to welcome
the Reformation, and always seeking if possible to stir a rising against the new order. It
is said that a priest was once successfully concealed here for eighteen months.

Many stirring things are told of the Arundells, who were dauntless Royalists. One is the siege
of Wardour Castle in 1643, when it was heroically defended by Blanche, wife of Lord Arundell,
who was with the King at Oxford. This lady, with a garrison of fifty, so stoutly resisted the
Parliamentary attack that most honourable terms of capitulation were granted; but these terms
were not kept. It was another Arundell, then a very old man, who defended Pendennis. The family
had another house at Trerice, about three miles south-east of Newquay; and at the Restoration,
when their confiscations were removed, the title of Lord Arundell of Trerice, now extinct,
was created. Carew has some curious remarks about them. He says: "Their name is derived from
Hirondelle, in French, a swallow, and out of France at the Conquest they came, and six swallows
they gave in arms. The country people entitled them the Great Arundells; and greatest stroke,
for love, living, and respect, in the country heretofore they bear. Their house of Lanhearn
standeth in the parish called Mawgan. It is appurtenanced with a large scope of land which
was employed in frank hospitality."

The next attraction at Mawgan is its church. Perpendicular in style but dating from the thirteenth
century, its pinnacled tower is surrounded by beautiful Cornish elms, and close to the graveyard
runs a prattling brook. The restoration by Butterfield was not all that might be desired, but
it happily spared the carved bench-ends, the fine pulpit and the screen. There are also some
good brasses and memorials of the Arundells. In the churchyard is a remarkable lantern-cross--not
Celtic but mediæval; it is described by Blight as "the most elaborate of the kind in Cornwall.
What is intended to be represented by this carving is not very evident; an angel seated on
a block in a corner holds a serpent turning round a pillar, and with its head touching the
face of a king. By the king's side is the figure of a queen kneeling before a lectern." There
is also in the graveyard a curious monument, the stern of a boat, bearing the record of ten
seamen who drifted ashore in their little vessel, frozen to death, at Beacon Cove in 1846.
Before leaving Mawgan most visitors will take a ramble through the beautiful Carnanton woods,
while some may remember that Carnanton was the residence of William Noye, Attorney-General
to Charles I., who as member for St. Ives had signalised himself as a champion of parliamentary
rights. Ministerial rank worked a wonderful change; so much so that Noye was actually the originator
of the ship-money tax which played so large a share in embroiling the nation. Hals goes so
far as to say that Noye "was blow-coal, incendiary, and stirrer-up of the Civil War"; and it
was he who prosecuted the arrested members of the House of Commons. He had the reputation of
a miser, so that, when he died, it was stated that his heart had shrivelled into the shape
of a leather purse. It is rather a pitiful memory to attach to so delightful a district.

CHAPTER XV

THE PADSTOW DISTRICT

