It was a dark and stormy morning when he was borne to his last resting-place, at the western
end of the beautiful church-yard of Crosthwaite. There lies his dear son Herbert--there his
daughters Emma and Isabel--there Edith, his faithful helpmate of forty years. But few besides
his own family and immediate neighbors followed his remains. His only intimate friend within
reach, Mr. Wordsworth, crossed the hills that wild morning to be present.

Soon after my father's death, various steps were taken with a view to erecting monuments to
his memory; and considerable sums were quickly subscribed for that purpose, the list including
the names of many persons, not only strangers to him personally, but also strongly opposed
to him in political opinion. The result was that three memorials were erected. The first and
principal one, a full length recumbent figure, was executed by Lough, and placed in Crosthwaite
church, and is certainly an excellent likeness, as well as a most beautiful work of art. The
original intention and agreement was, that it should be in Caen stone, but the sculptor, with
characteristic liberality, executed it in white marble, at a considerable sacrifice.

The following lines, by Mr. Wordsworth, are inscribed upon the base:

   "Ye vales and hills, whose beauty hither drew
   The poet's steps, and fixed him here; on you
   His eyes have closed; and ye loved books, no more
   Shall Southey feed upon your precious lore,
   To works that ne'er shall forfeit their renown
   Adding immortal labors of his own--
   Whether he traced historic truth with zeal
   For the state's guidance or the church's weal,
   Or fancy disciplined by curious art
   Informed his pen, or wisdom of the heart,
   Or judgments sanctioned in the patriot's mind
   By reverence for the rights of all mankind.
   Wide were his aims, yet in no human breast
   Could private feelings meet in holier rest.
   His joys--his griefs--have vanished like a cloud
   From Skiddaw's top; but he to Heaven was vowed
   Through a life long and pure, and steadfast faith
   Calmed in his soul the fear of change and death." In all this time, however, he made but little progress in it;
partly from the nature of the materials, partly from the want of
sufficient interest in the subject.]

[Footnote 3: Miss Barker, the Senhora of earlier days, who was living at that time in a house
close to Greta Hall.]

[Footnote 4: Notes to Philip Van Artevelde, by Henry Taylor.]

[Footnote 5: I speak of a period prior to his receiving his last pension, which was granted
in 1835.]

[Footnote 6: August 24, 1839.]

[Footnote 7: Robert Montgomery. The fourth line is altered from the original.]

MADAME CAMPAN.[8]

Jane Louisa Henrietta Campan was born at Paris, 1752. She was the daughter of M. Genet, first
clerk in the office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He was fond of literature, and communicated
a taste for it to his daughter, who early displayed considerable talents. She acquired a knowledge
of foreign languages, particularly the Italian and English, and was distinguished for her skill
in reading and recitation. These acquisitions procured for her the place of reader to the French
princesses, daughters of Louis XV. On the marriage of Marie-Antoinette to the Dauphin, afterward
Louis XVI., Mademoiselle Genet was attached to her suite, and continued, for twenty years,
to occupy a situation about her person.

Her general intelligence and talent for observation, enabled Madame Campan, in the course of
her service, to collect the materials for her "Memoirs of the Private Life of the Queen of
France," first published in Paris, and translated and printed in London, 1823, in two volumes.
This work is not only interesting for the information it affords, but is also very creditable
to the literary talents of the authoress. Soon after the appointment at court, Mademoiselle
Genet was married to M. Campan, son of the Secretary of the queen's closet. When Marie-Antoinette
was made a prisoner, Madame Campan begged to be permitted to accompany her royal mistress,
and share her imprisonment, which was refused. Madame Campan was with the queen at the storming
of the Tuilleries, on the 10th of August, when she narrowly escaped with her life: and, under
the rule of Robespierre, she came near being sent to the guillotine. After the fall of that
tyrant, she retired to the country, and opened a private seminary for young ladies, which she
conducted with great success. Josephine Beauharnais sent her daughter, Hortense, to the seminary
of Madame Campan. She had also the sisters of the emperor under her care. In 1806, Napoleon
founded the school of Ecouen, for the daughters and sisters of the officers of the Legion of
Honor, and appointed Madame Campan to superintend it. This institution was suppressed at the
restoration of the Bourbons, and Madame Campan retired to Nantes, where she partly prepared
her "Memoirs," and other works. She died in 1822, aged seventy. After her decease, her "Private
Journal" was published; also, "Familiar Letters to her Friends," and a work, which she considered
her most important one, entitled "Thoughts on Education." We will give extracts from these works.

From the "Private Journal."

MESMER AND HIS MAGNETISM.

At the time when Mesmer made so much noise in Paris with his magnetism, M. Campan, my husband,
was his partisan, like almost every person who moved in high life. To be magnetized was then
a fashion; nay, it was more, it was absolutely a rage. In the drawing-rooms, nothing was talked
of but the brilliant discovery. There was to be no more dying; people's heads were turned,
and their imaginations heated in the highest degree. To accomplish this object, it was necessary
to bewilder the understanding; and Mesmer, with his singular language, produced that effect.
To put a stop to the fit of public insanity was the grand difficulty; and it was proposed to
have the secret purchased by the court. Mesmer fixed his claims at a very extravagant rate.
However, he was offered fifty thousand crowns. By a singular chance, I was one day led into
the midst of the somnambulists. Such was the enthusiasm of the spectators, that, in most of
them, I could observe a wild rolling of the eye, and a convulsed movement of the countenance.
A stranger might have fancied himself amidst the unfortunate patients of Charenton. Surprised
and shocked at seeing so many people almost in a state of delirium, I withdrew, full of reflections
on the scene which I had just witnessed.

It happened that about this time my husband was attacked with a pulmonary disorder, and he
desired that he might be conveyed to Mesmer's house. Being introduced into the apartment occupied
by M. Campan, I asked the worker of miracles what treatment he proposed to adopt; he very coolly
replied, that to ensure a speedy and perfect cure, it would be necessary to lay in the bed
of the invalid, at his left side, one of three things, namely, a young woman of brown complexion;
a black hen; or an empty bottle.

"Sir," said I, "if the choice be a matter of indifference, pray try the empty bottle."

M. Campan's side grew worse; he experienced a difficulty of breathing and a pain in his chest.
All magnetic remedies that were employed produced no effect. Perceiving his failure, Mesmer
took advantage of the periods of my absence to bleed and blister the patient. I was not informed
of what had been done until after M. Campan's recovery. Mesmer was asked for a certificate,
to prove that the patient had been cured by means of magnetism only; and he gave it. Here was
a trait of enthusiasm! Truth was no longer respected. When I next presented myself to the queen
(Marie-Antoinette), their majesties asked what I thought of Mesmer's discovery. I informed
them of what had taken place, earnestly expressing my indignation at the conduct of the barefaced
quack. It was immediately determined to have nothing more to do with him.

THE EMPEROR ALEXANDER'S VISIT TO MADAME CAMPAN'S SCHOOL. I impress on their minds the necessity
of regulating with attention the most trifling daily expenses; but at the same time I recommend
them to avoid making domestic details the subject of conversation in the drawing-room, for
that is a most decided mark of ill-breeding. It is proper that all should know how to do and
to direct; but it is only for ill-educated women to talk about their carriages, servants, washing,
and cooking.

These are the reasons, sire, why my pupils are generally superior to those brought up in other
establishments. All is conducted on the most simple plan; the young ladies are taught every
thing of which they can possibly stand in need; and they are consequently as much at their
ease in the brilliant circles of fashion, as in the most humble condition of life. Fortune
confers rank, but education teaches how to support it properly.

From the "Letters," &c.

TO HER ONLY SON.

You are now, my dear Henry, removed from my fond care and instruction; and young as you are,
you have entered upon the vast theatre of the world. Some years hence, when time shall have
matured your ideas, and enabled you to take a clear, retrospective view of your steps in life,
you will be able to enter into my feelings, and to judge of the anxiety which at this moment
agitates my heart.

When first a beloved child, releasing itself from its nurse's arms, ventures its little tottering
steps on the soft carpet, or the smoothest grass-plot, the poor mother scarcely breathes; she
imagines that these first efforts of nature are attended with every danger to the object most
dear to her. Fond mother, calm your anxious fears! Your infant son can, at the worst, only
receive a slight hurt, which, under your tender care, will speedily be healed. Reserve your
alarms, your heart-beatings, your prayers to Providence, for the moment when your son enters
upon the scene of the world to select a character, which, if sustained with dignity, judgment,
and feeling, will render him universally esteemed and approved; or to degrade himself by filling
one of those low, contemptible parts, fit only for the vilest actors in the drama of life.
Tremble at the moment when your child has to choose between the rugged road of industry and
integrity, leading straight to honor and happiness; and the smooth and flowery path which descends,
through indolence and pleasure, to the gulf of vice and misery. It is then that the voice of
a parent, or of some faithful friend, must direct the right course....

Surrounded as you doubtless are, by thoughtless and trifling companions, let your mother be
the rallying point of your mind and heart; the confidant of all your plans....

Learn to know the value of money. This is a most essential point. The want of economy leads
to the decay of powerful empires, as well as private families. Louis XVI. perished on the scaffold
for a deficit of fifty millions. There would have been no debt, no assemblies of the people,
no revolution, no loss of the sovereign authority, no tragical death, but for this fatal deficit.
States are ruined through the mismanagement of millions, and private persons become bankrupts
and end their lives in misery through the mismanagement of crowns worth six livres. It is very
important, my dear son, that I lay down to you these first principles of right conduct, and
impress upon your mind the necessity of adhering to them. Render me an account of the expenditure
of your money, not viewing me in the light of a rigid preceptress, but as a friend who wishes
to accustom you to the habit of accounting to yourself....

Let me impress upon you the importance of attentive application to business; for that affords
certain consolation, and is a security against lassitude, and the vices which idleness creates....

Be cautious how you form connections; and hesitate not to break them off on the first proposition
to adopt any course which your affectionate mother warns you to avoid, as fatal to your real
happiness, and to the attainment of that respect and esteem which it should be your ambition
to enjoy....

Never neglect to appropriate a certain portion of your time to useful reading; and do not imagine
that even half an hour a day, devoted to that object, will be unprofitable. The best way of
arranging and employing one's time is by calculation; and I have often reflected that half
an hour's reading every day, will be one hundred and eighty hours' reading in the course of
the year. Great fortunes are amassed by little savings; and poverty as well as ignorance are
occasioned by the extravagant waste of money and time....

My affection for you, my dear Henry, is still as actively alive as when, in your infancy, I
removed, patiently, every little stone from a certain space in my garden, lest, when you first
ran alone, you might fall and hurt your face on the pebbles. But the snares now spread beneath
your steps are far more dangerous. They are strengthened by seductive appearances, and the
ardor of youth would hurry you forward to the allurement; but that my watchful care, and the
confidence you repose in me, serve to counteract the influence of this twofold power. Your
bark is gliding near a rapid current; but your mother stands on the shore, and with her eyes
fixed on her dear navigator, anxiously exclaims, in the moment of danger, "Reef your sails;
mind your helm." Oh! may you never forget, or cease to be guided by these warnings, which come
from my inmost heart.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 8: From Mrs. Hale's Female Biography, now in the press of Harper & Brothers.]

PROCRASTINATION.

BY CHARLES MACKAY.

   If fortune with a smiling face
   Strew roses on our way,
   When shall we stoop to pick them up?
       To-day, my love, to-day.
   But should she frown with face of care,
   And talk of coming sorrow,
   When shall we grieve, if grieve we must?
       To-morrow, love, to-morrow.

   If those who've wrong'd us own their fault,
   And kindly pity pray,
   When shall we listen, and forgive?
       To-day, my love, to-day.
   But if stern Justice urge rebuke,
   And warmth from Memory borrow,
   When shall we chide, if chide we dare?
       To-morrow, love, to-morrow.

   If those to whom we owe a debt
   Are harmed unless we pay,
   When shall we struggle to be just?
       To-day, my love, to-day.
   But if our debtor fail our hope,
   And plead his ruin thorough,
   When shall we weigh his breach of faith?
       To-morrow, love, to-morrow.

   If love estranged should once again
   Her genial smile display,
   When shall we kiss her proffered lips?
       To-day, my love, to-day.
   But if she would indulge regret,
   Or dwell with bygone sorrow,
   When shall we weep, if weep we must?
       To-morrow, love, to-morrow.

   For virtuous acts and harmless joys
   The minutes will not stay;
   We've always time to welcome them,
       To-day, my love, to-day.
   But care, resentment, angry words,
   And unavailing sorrow,
   Come far too soon, if they appear
       To-morrow, love, to-morrow.

BRUNORO.[9]

Bona Lombardi, was born in 1417, in Sacco, a little village in Vattellina. Her parents were
obscure peasants, of whom we have but little information. The father, Gabriel Lombardi, a private
soldier, died while she was an infant; and her mother not surviving him long, the little girl
was left to the charge of an aunt, a hard-working countrywoman, and an uncle, an humble curate.

