Soon after the beginning of the nineteenth century came the invasion led by Junot, 1807, the
flight of the royal family to Brazil, and the Peninsular War. Terrible damage was done by the
invaders, cart-loads of church plate were carried off, and many a monastery was sacked and
burned. Peace had not long been restored when the struggle broke out between the constitutional
party under Pedro of Brazil, who had resigned the throne of Portugal in favour of his daughter,
Maria da Gloria, and the absolutists under Dom Miguel, his brother.

The civil war lasted for several years, from May 1828, when Dom Miguel, then regent for his
niece, summoned the Cortes and caused himself to be elected king, till May 1834, when he was
finally defeated at Evora Monte and forced to leave the country. The chief events of his usurpation
were the siege of Oporto and the defeat of his fleet off Cape St. Vincent in 1833 by Captain
Charles Napier, who fought for Dona Maria under the name of Carlos de Ponza.

One of the first acts of the constitutional Cortes was to suppress all the monasteries in the
kingdom in 1834. At the same time the nunneries were forbidden to receive any new nuns, with
the result that in many places the buildings have gradually fallen into decay, till the last
surviving sister has died, solitary and old, and so at length set free her home to be turned
to some public use.[3]

Since then the history of Portugal has been quiet and uneventful. Good roads have been made--but
not always well kept up--railways have been built, and Lisbon, once known as the dirtiest of
towns, has become one of the cleanest, with fine streets, electric lighting, a splendidly managed
system of electric tramways, and with funiculars and lifts to connect the higher parts of the
town with its busy centre.

It is not uninteresting to notice in how many small matters Portugal now differs from Spain.
Portugal drinks tea, Spain chocolate or coffee; it lunches and dines early, Spain very late;
its beds and pillows are very hard, in Spain they are much softer. Travelling too in Portugal
is much pleasanter; as the country is so much smaller, trains leave at much more reasonable
hours, run more frequently, and go more quickly. The inns also, even in small places, are,
if not luxurious, usually quite clean with good food, and the landlord treats his guests with
something more pleasing than that lofty condescension which is so noticeable in Spain.

Of the more distant countries of Europe, Portugal is now one of the easiest to reach. Forty-eight
hours from Southampton in a boat bound for South America lands the traveller at Vigo, or three
days at Lisbon, where the brilliant sun and blue sky, the judas-trees in the Avenida, the roses,
the palms, and the sheets of bougainvillia, are such an unimaginable change from the cold March
winds and pinched buds of England.

There is perhaps no country in Europe which has so interesting a flora, especially in spring.
In March in the granite north the ground under the pine-trees is covered with the exquisite
flowers of the narcissus triandrus,[4] while the wet water meadows are yellow with petticoat
daffodils. Other daffodils too abound, but these are the commonest.

Later the granite rocks are hidden by great trees of white broom, while from north to south
every wild piece of land is starred with the brilliant blue flowers of the lithospermum. There
are also endless varieties of cistus, from the small yellow annual with rich brown heart to
the large gum cistus that covers so much of the poor soil in the Alemtejo. These plains of
the Alemtejo are supposed to be the least beautiful part of the country, but no one can cross
them in April without being almost overcome with the beauty of the flowers, cistus, white,
yellow, or red, tall white heaths, red heaths, blue lithospermum, yellow whin, and most brilliant
of all the large pimpernel, whose blue flowers almost surpass the gentian. A little further
on where there is less heath and cistus, tall yellow and blue Spanish irises stand up out of
the grass, or there may be great heads of blue scilla peruviana or sheets of small iris of
the brightest blue.

Indeed, sheets of brilliant colour are everywhere most wonderful. There may be acres of rich
purple where the bugloss hides the grass, or of brilliant yellow where the large golden daisies
grow thickly together, or of sky-blue where the convolvulus has smothered a field of oats.

PAINTING IN PORTUGAL.[5]

From various causes Portugal is far less rich in buildings of interest than is Spain. The earthquake
has destroyed many, but more have perished through tasteless rebuilding during the eighteenth
century when the country again regained a small part of the trade and wealth lost during the
Spanish usurpation.

But if this is true of architecture, it is far more true of painting. During the most flourishing
period of Spanish painting, the age of Velasquez and of Murillo, Portugal was, before 1640,
a despised part of the kingdom, treated as a conquered province, while after the rebellion
the long struggle, which lasted for twenty-eight years, was enough to prevent any of the arts
from flourishing. Besides, many good pictures which once adorned the royal palaces of Portugal
were carried off to Madrid by Philip or his successors.

And yet there are scattered about the country not a few paintings of considerable merit. Most
of them have been terribly neglected, are very dirty, or hang where they can scarcely be seen,
while little is really known about their painters.

From the time of Dom João I., whose daughter, Isabel, married Duke Philip early in the fifteenth
century, the two courts of Portugal and of Burgundy had been closely united. Isabel sent an
alabaster monument for the tomb of her father's great friend and companion, the Holy Constable,
and one of bronze for that of her eldest brother; while as a member of the embassy which came
to demand her hand, was J. van Eyck himself. However, if he painted anything in Portugal, it
has now vanished.

There was also a great deal of trade with Antwerp where the Portuguese merchants had a lonja
or exchange as early as 1386, and where a factory was established in 1503. With the heads of
this factory, Francisco Brandão and Rodrigo Ruy de Almada, Albert Dürer was on friendly terms,
sending them etchings and paintings in return for wine and southern rarities. He also drew
the portrait of Damião de Goes, Dom Manoel's friend and chronicler.

It is natural enough, therefore, that Flanders should have had a great influence on Portuguese
painting, and indeed practically all the pictures in the country are either by Netherland masters,
painted at home and imported, or painted in Portugal by artists who had been attracted there
by the fame of Dom Manoel's wealth and generosity, or else by Portuguese pupils sent to study
in Flanders.

During the seventeenth century all memory of these painters had vanished. Looking at their
work, the writers of that date were struck by what seemed to them, in their natural ignorance
of Flemish art, a strange and peculiar style, and so attributed them all to a certain half-mythical
painter of Vizeu called Vasco, or Grão Vasco, who is first mentioned in 1630.

Raczynski,[6] in his letters to the Berlin Academy, says that he had found Grão Vasco's birth
in a register of Vizeu; but Vasco is not an uncommon name, and besides this child, Vasco Fernandes,
was born in 1552--far too late to have painted any of the so-called Grão Vasco's pictures.

It is of course possible that some of the pictures now at Vizeu were the work of a man called
Vasco, and one of those at Coimbra, in the sacristy of Santa Cruz, is signed Velascus--which
is only the Spanish form of Vasco--so that the legendary personage may have been evolved from
either or both of these, for it is scarcely possible that they can have been the same.

Turning now to some of the pictures themselves, there are thirteen representing scenes from
the life of the Virgin in the archbishop's palace at Evora, which are said by Justi, a German
critic, to be by Gerhard David. Twelve of these are in a very bad state of preservation, but
one is still worthy of some admiration. In the centre sits the Virgin with the Child on her
knee: four angels are in the air above her holding a wreath. On her right three angels are
singing, and on her left one plays an organ while another behind blows the bellows. Below there
are six other angels, three on each side with a lily between them, playing, those on the right
on a violin, a flute, and a zither, those on the left on a harp, a triangle, and a guitar.
Once part of the cathedral reredos, it was taken down when the new Capella Mor was built in
the eighteenth century.

Another Netherlander who painted at Evora was Frey Carlos, who came to Espinheiro close by
in 1507. Several of his works are in the Museum at Lisbon.[7]

When Dom Manoel was enriching the old Templar church at Thomar with gilding and with statues
of saints, he also caused large paintings to be placed round the outer wall. Several still
remain, but most have perished, either during the French invasion or during the eleven years
after the expulsion of the monks in 1834 when the church stood open for any one to go in and
do what harm he liked. Some also, including the 'Raising of Lazarus,' the 'Entry into Jerusalem,'
the 'Resurrection,' and the 'Centurion,' are now in Lisbon. Four--the 'Nativity,' the 'Visit
of the Magi,' the 'Annunciation,' and a 'Virgin and Child'--are known to have been given by
Dom Manoel; twenty others, including the four now at Lisbon, are spoken of by Raczynski in
1843,[8] and some at least of these, as well as the angels holding the emblems of the Passion,
who stand above the small arches of the inner octagon, may have been painted by Johannes Dralia
of Bruges, who died and was buried at Thomar in 1504.[9]

Also at Thomar, but in the parish church of São João Baptista, are some pictures ascribed by
Justi to a pupil of Quentin Matsys. Now it is known that a Portuguese called Eduard became
a pupil of Matsys in 1504, and four years later a Vrejmeester of the guild. So perhaps they
may be by this Eduard or by some fellow-pupil.

The Jesus Church at Setubal, built by Justa Rodrigues, Dom Manoel's nurse, has fifteen paintings
in incongruous gilt frames and hung high up on the north wall of the church, which also have
something of the same style.[10]

More interesting than these are two pictures in the sacristy of Santa Cruz at Coimbra, an 'Ecce
Homo' and the 'Day of Pentecost.' It is the 'Pentecost' which is signed Velascus, and in it
the Apostles in an inner room are seen through an arcade of three arches like a chapter-house
entrance. Perhaps once part of the great reredos, this picture has suffered terribly from neglect;
but it must once have been a fine work, and the way in which the Apostles in the inner room
are separated by the arcade from the two spectators is particularly successful.

In Oporto there exists at least one good picture, 'The Fountain of Mercy,' now in the board-room
of the Misericordia,[11] but painted to be the reredos of the chapel of São Thiago in the Sé
where the brotherhood was founded by Dom Manoel in 1499. (Fig. 3.)

In the centre above, between St. John and the Virgin, stands a crucifix from which blood flows
down to fill a white marble well.

Below, on one side there kneels Dom Manoel with his six sons--João, afterwards king; Luis,
duke of Beja; Fernando, duke of Guarda; Affonso, afterwards archbishop of Lisbon, with his
cardinal's hat; Henrique, later cardinal archbishop of Evora, and then king; and Duarte, duke
of Guimarães and ancestor of the present ruling house of Braganza.

On the other side are Queen Dona Leonor,[12] granddaughter of Ferdinand and Isabella, Dom Manoel's
third wife[13] and her two stepdaughters, Dona Isabel, the wife of Charles V. and mother of
Philip II., who through her claimed and won the throne of Portugal when his uncle, the cardinal
king, died in 1580, and Dona Beatriz, who married Charles III.. of Savoy.

The date of the picture is fixed as between 1518 when Dom Affonso, then aged nine, received
his cardinal's hat, and 1521 when Dom Manoel died.[14]

Unfortunately the picture has been somewhat spoiled by restoration, but it is undoubtedly a
very fine piece of work--especially the portraits below--and would be worthy of admiration
anywhere, even in a country much richer in works of art.

It has of course been attributed to Grão Vasco, but it is quite different from either the Velascus
pictures at Coimbra or the paintings at Vizeu; besides, some of the beautifully painted flowers,
such as the columbines, which enrich the grass on which the royal persons kneel, are not Portuguese
flowers, so that it is much more likely to have been the work of some one from Flanders.

Equally Flemish are the pictures at Vizeu, whether any of them be by the Grão Vasco or not.
Tradition has it that he was born at a mill not far off, still called Moinho do Pintor, the
Painter's Mill, and that Dom Manoel sent him to study in Italy. Now, wherever the painter of
the Vizeu pictures had

studied it can scarcely have been in Italy, as they are all surely much nearer to the Flemish
than to any Italian school.

There are still in the precincts of the cathedral some thirty-one pictures of very varied merit,
and not all by the same hand. Of these there are fourteen in the chapter-house, a room opening
off the upper cloister. They are all scenes from the life of Our Lord from the Annunciation
to the day of Pentecost. Larger than any of these is a damaged 'Crucifixion' in the Jesus Chapel
under the chapter-house. The painting is full, perhaps too full, of movement and of figures.
Besides the scenes usually portrayed in a picture of the Crucifixion, others are shown in the
background, Judas hanging himself on one side, and Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus on the
other, coming out from Jerusalem with their spices. Lastly, in the sacristy there are twelve
small paintings of the Apostles and other saints of no great merit, and four large pictures,
'St. Sebastian,' the 'Day of Pentecost,' where the room is divided by three arches, with the
Virgin and another saint in the centre, and six of the Apostles on each side; the 'Baptism
of Our Lord,' and lastly 'St. Peter.' The first three are not very remarkable, but the 'St.
Peter' is certainly one of the finest pictures in the country, and is indeed worthy of ranking
among the great pictures of the world.[15] (Fig. 4.)

As in the 'Day of Pentecost' there is a triple division; St. Peter's throne being in the middle
with an arch on each side open to show distant scenes. The throne seems to be of stone, with
small boys and griffins holding shields charged with the Cross Keys on the arms. On the canopy
two other shields supporting triple crowns flank an arch whose classic ornaments and large
shell are more Italian than is any other part of the painting. On the throne sits St. Peter
pontifically robed, and with the triple crown on his head. His right hand is raised in blessing,
and in his left he holds one very long key while he keeps a book open upon his knee.

