VOL. I.--NO. 42. PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK. PRICE FOUR CENTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD TIMES IN THE COLONIES.

BY CHARLES CARLETON COFFIN.

NO. IV.

JOHN KERZAR, HANNAH DUSTIN, AND THE INDIANS.

It was in August, 1692. John Kerzar, who lived on the banks of the Merrimac, a few miles from
the sea, went out into his meadow with his scythe to cut grass. He took his gun along with
him to shoot a bear if he saw one in his corn, or an Indian if one made his appearance. He
leaned his gun against a tree, and went on with his mowing, not knowing that an Indian was
crawling through the tall grass toward him. The Indian reached the tree, seized the gun, and
cocked it.

"Me kill you now," said the Indian.

John Kerzar was brave. He was quick to think. He could yell louder than any Indian. No use
for him to run; that would be certain death. With a yell like the blast of a trumpet, and uplifted
scythe, he rushed upon the Indian, who, instead of firing, dropped the gun and took to his
heels. Kerzar was upon him in an instant, swinging his scythe, and making such a fearful gash
that the Indian fell dead at his feet.

Kerzar lived in Haverhill. It was a frontier settlement, and the Indians either had a spite
against it, or else it was more convenient for them to attack than other settlements, for they
made many attempts to destroy the place.

Thomas Dustin was at work in his field one day, when he saw a large number of Indians coming
toward him from the woods. He had eight children, the youngest a week old. The mother was in
bed with the infant, tended by her nurse Mary Neff. "Run for the garrison," he shouted.

The children started, the oldest boys and girls carrying the youngest. Mr. Dustin rushed to
the stable and bridled his horse, intending to take Mrs. Dustin; but the Indians were so close
upon him that he could not. He leaped upon the horse with his gun, and galloped away, the bullets
flying around him, leaving his wife, baby, and Mary Neff.

The Indians entered the house, dragged Mrs. Dustin from the bed, and seized the nurse. One
caught up the infant by the legs, and dashed its head against a rock.

Mr. Dustin overtook his children. It would be impossible, he thought, to save them all; which
should he leave? All were equally dear. How could he make a selection? He would not; he would
die in defending them, and do what he could to save all.

"Run!" he shouted, urging them on; then leaped from his horse, and fired, sprung upon the animal,
again loaded his gun while upon the gallop, overtook his children, dismounted, fired again,
and so, keeping the Indians at bay, brought all his children in safety to the garrison.

Not so fortunate his neighbors. In a few minutes the Indians massacred twenty-seven men, women,
and children, set several houses on fire, and with a number of captives started for Canada.

It was the middle of March. The rivers and streams were swollen. There was snow on the ground.
Mrs. Dustin had but one shoe; the other foot was bare; it was torn by the stones, chilled by
the cold. Every step was marked with blood. Her fellow-captives fainted and fell one by one,
and the tomahawk and scalping-knife finished them. All except Mrs. Dustin and Mary Neff were
killed. For four days they travelled through the dark forest toward the northwest. The Indians
gave them little to eat. The third day brought them to the rendez-vous of the Indians, on a
little island where the Contoocook falls into the Merrimac.

There were fertile intervales along the Merrimac where the deer found pasture. The Indians
could spear salmon in abundance.

They had captured a little boy named Samuel Leonardson near Worcester, Massachusetts, and he
had learned to talk with them.

Having been successful in their raids, all except twelve of the Indians started out to make
another attack somewhere upon the English, expecting to return with captives, which they would
sell to the French. Upon their return the whole party would go to Canada.

The woman who had seen her infant dashed upon the rock, and who had endured such hardships,
had a brave spirit, and preferred death to captivity.

They who would be free, must themselves strike the blow. There was none but God to lean upon.
She determined to make the attempt to be free.

"Ask the Indians where they strike with the tomahawk when they want to kill a person quick?"
she said to Samuel.

"Strike 'em here," said the Indian, putting his finger on Samuel's temple.

Mrs. Dustin saw where he placed his finger.

"This is the way to take off a scalp," said the Indian, showing the boy how to run a knife
around the head, and separate the scalp from the skull.

The strong-hearted woman turns over her plans. They are on an island. There are twelve Indians
in all; some are women, some children. Their canoes are drawn up beneath the alders. They are
so far from any danger of surprise that no one keeps watch at night. The thought never comes
to them that their captives--two feeble women and a boy--can escape.

Night comes. The fires burn low. All are asleep, lulled by the music of the falling waters.
No--all are not asleep. The woman of brave spirit never before was so wide-awake. Hannah Dustin
awakes Mary Neff and Samuel Leonardson, informs them of her purpose, gives each a tomahawk.
Each selects a victim.

"Strike hard!"

A signal, and the hatchets crush through the skulls of the sleeping Indians, blow after blow
in quick succession. It is the work of a minute, but in that brief time ten of the twelve Indians
are killed; two only escape in the darkness.

The prisoners--prisoners no longer--gather the provisions, take the guns of the Indians, and
place them in a canoe. The thoughtful women, to prevent pursuit, quickly cut holes in all the
other canoes and set them adrift. They take their seats in the remaining canoe, and push out
into the stream.

A thought comes. If they are spared to reach their home, will their friends believe their story?
They will have evidence that can not be disputed. They paddle back to the island. Mrs. Dustin
runs a knife around the scalp-locks of the dead Indians, and takes them from the skulls. They
start once more in the darkness. They know that the river will bring them to their homes.

The current bears them on. Soon they are amid the rapids at Pennacook, but the thought of home,
of liberty, cools their brains and steadies their nerves. The intrepid women handle the paddles
dexterously, steering clear of sunken rocks and dangerous whirlpools.

They come to a space of clear water, and then to falls, around which they must carry the canoe.
They are in danger of death by drowning, in danger of prowling savages, whose wigwams are still
standing along the bank of the winding stream, but no Indian discovers them. With tireless
energy they ply their paddles. Days pass. At last they sweep round a bend, and behold familiar
scenes: they are once more at home, coming upon their sorrowing friends like apparitions from
the dead. It is a marvellous story they have to tell of endurance, heroism, and victory. No
one can doubt their words, for there are the scalps, evidence undoubtable.

By every fireside the story of Hannah Dustin, Mary Neff, and Samuel Leonardson is narrated.
Presents come to them--fifty pounds from the General Court of Massachusetts, and a rich present
from the Governor of New York.

A monument has been reared upon the spot where they obtained their freedom, commemorative of
their endurance, resolution, and heroic action.

THE ROVERINGS AT CONEY ISLAND.

BY MATTHEW WHITE, JUN.

The two Eds wanted to go very much.

"I can learn to build forts in the sand, and then grow up to be a soldier," urged Edward.

"And I might watch the men steer the boats, and by-and-by be ready to sail off somewheres on
a ship, and bring back an India shawl," suggested Edgar, cunningly, and Mrs. Rovering decided
at once that they should go.

"By the boat?" cried Edgar.

"No, by the cars," exclaimed Edward; and thereupon arose a discussion on the point, which lasted
until Mr. Rovering came home to dinner, and said they could go by both.

So on the next morning, which happened to be Saturday, the family set out, armed with an immense
lunch basket, and shaded by huge straw hats.

"Now, Robert," said Mrs. Rovering, as they hurried down a dirty side street to the river, "are
you sure you know where you're going?"

"Why, to Manhattan Beach, to be sure. We decided to begin there, you remember." But they had
no sooner reached the end of the long pier than they were set upon by what appeared to be a
lot of crazy men, who yelled in such a frightful fashion about bursting boilers and rotten
timbers that the Roverings were very glad to find that they were on the wrong dock, and that
the Manhattan Beach boats started from a quiet wharf near by, where there were no opposition
steamers.

And now a most wonderful thing happened. The crowd on this first pier was a most dreadful one,
and yet neither of the Eds got lost in it, nor did Mr. Rovering have his pocket picked; and
this fact struck Mrs. Rovering as so extraordinary that she stood still for a full minute in
the Battery Park before she could realize it, while an elevated railroad engine overhead dripped
grease all over the cherry-colored ribbon on her hat.

After blundering into Castle Garden, and knocking at the door of a free swimming bath, they
succeeded in finding the boat they wanted, which, after several very narrow escapes from being
run into by ferry-boats, running over tugs, swamping row-boats, and grazing barges, took them
safely to the pier where the cars were waiting.

With these latter the two Eds were much delighted, as they were open ones, and consequently
offered to them unlimited opportunities for falling out and breaking their necks.

"Here we are!" suddenly announced Edgar, as the train slowed up and then stopped; but after
the heavy basket had been carefully lifted out, and Mrs. Rovering had laboriously stepped down,
they discovered that there was no station there at all, and they had just time to squeeze back
into their places before the engine started again.

The family went through this performance three times, until finally Mr. Rovering found out
that these mysterious haltings were only made as a matter of precaution before crossing other
railroads.

But at last the cars stopped for good, and after waiting until everybody else had left the
train, the Roverings concluded that they had actually arrived at the famous Manhattan Beach.

The two Eds were for at once dashing off to the shore, but Mrs. Rovering declared that they
hadn't time for play yet, as they must first walk up as far as the new hotel, so as to be sure
they had seen everything. Mr. Rovering, however, had caught sight of the bathing pavilion,
and decided that, for fear they should forget it, they had better take a dip in the ocean immediately.

So they all went into the Atlantic--and a good deal of it into them; and on coming out, Mrs.
Rovering was lost in more wonder than ever when she found that neither of the Eds was drowned.

"And now we must eat our lunch," said Mr. Rovering, when they were once more wandering along
the broad plank-walk in the broiling sun.

"And there's a superb place where we may partake of it," added his wife, indicating the invitingly
cool-looking piazza of a large hotel, which was plentifully provided with tables and chairs,
seemingly on purpose for just such hungry lunch-laden mortals as themselves.

So they all went up the steps, and choosing a table in the shadiest corner, they sat down,
and began to unpack the basket.

Mrs. Rovering had just taken a creamcake and a box of sardines from the centre of a lemon pie
when a waiter walked up to them with a card-board sign, which read, "Positively no picnic parties
allowed in the parlors or on the piazzas of this hotel."

Now this sudden turn of affairs was very humiliating to the Roverings, the more so as they
had all grown very hungry after their bath, and the contents of the basket had a most inviting
odor.

But there was no help for it; so the sardines and sandwiches and lemon pie and creamcakes and
all the silver-plated ware, were thrust hurriedly back in a dreadful heap of confusion, and
the four set out for the beach, feeling sure that they would not be molested there.

However, when they sat down on the dry sand, they found it so hot, and it flew about and into
everything so easily, that they determined to move down nearer to the water.

They had just established themselves on a cool spot, and Mrs. Rovering was distributing supplies
for the third time, while the two Eds were busily engaged in fort-building, when Mr. Rovering
suddenly cried out, "Take care!" but before he could say of what, a big wave had dashed up
and salted the whole party, and luckily salted them only, yet enough to convince them that
the beach was not a convenient lunch table; so the provisions being tumbled into the basket
again, Mr. Rovering declared in favor of Brighton, where the four were set down a few minutes
later by the Marine Railway.

Here they tried another hotel piazza, but the same dreadful notice stared them in the face,
and they began to fear that they would be compelled to go home to eat their lunch, when Mr.
Rovering happened to remember having heard something about West Brighton being a resort of
"the people"; so they all bundled into a stage, at five cents a head, to ride to the next grand
division of the island.

And now the two Eds saw with delight that they were coming to the region of circuses, side
shows, and merry-go-rounds, and soon Mrs. Rovering said, "Robert, I observe that we are approaching
the Observatory. Let us ascend by the elevator; it may give us an appetite for--"

"But I want to ride round on the lion," broke in Edward.

"And I want to see the Midgets," added Edgar. But Mr. Rovering having noticed that the admission
to the Observatory was fifteen cents, children ten cents, thought it would be too bad if he
did not take advantage of the reduction to save a dime; so the four got in one of the elevators,
and rode to the top, which was several hundred feet above the level of the sea.

The view from this lofty point was certainly very fine, and for a moment or two the careful
mother forgot all about her sons, while she tried to make out through the telescope, under
her husband's guidance, the exact spot of ground on Staten Island where they had once held
a Fourth-of-July picnic.

At length she gave up the attempt, and turned around to look after the boys. But neither of
the Eds was to be seen.

There were but two persons besides themselves in the cage-like compartment, so the children
could not be lost in the crowd. With a cry of horror, Mrs. Rovering rushed to the side, and
peering down, down, far below her, saw her two darling boys, stretched on the ground apparently
in the positions they had fallen, each leaning on an elbow.

"Let me to my sons!" shrieked the poor mother, tragically; and dragging Mr. Rovering after
her, she flew down the stairs only to find that both the elevators were at the bottom of the
tower. Then, with the music of the merry-go-round organs ringing in her ears, and the beating
of the side-show drums trying to drown it, Mrs. Rovering fainted away.

When she came to herself she was reclining on two chairs on a hotel piazza, staring at the
notice, painted on the wall, "No baskets allowed."

This fully restored her to her senses, and turning around, she saw the two Eds calmly drinking
milk from the great wooden cow near by.

It seemed that the boys had speedily grown tired of the tower, and quietly slipping down stairs,
had taken the elevator back to earth again. Here they had thrown themselves on the ground,
and were engaged in counting up their pennies, in order to see, if they both took a ride on
the wooden lion, how much would remain for the Midgets, when their mother missed them.

By this time it had grown to be the middle of the afternoon, and Mr. Rovering, becoming desperate,
went up to a benevolent-looking gentleman and asked him if he knew of a spot where free American
citizens might eat a lunch they had brought with them from home.

"Why, certainly," was the reply; "there is a building especially adapted to that purpose at
the other end of the island."

"But we have just come from there," said Mr. Rovering.

"Ah, then, it isn't my fault you didn't see it;" and the gentleman sat down at the very next
table, and proceeded to order a mutton-chop and some fried potatoes.

"Dolly, let's go home!" exclaimed Mr. Rovering, in despair; and picking up the basket, which
now seemed heavier than ever, he led the way to the Iron Pier.

And now they looked forward to enjoying their lunch on the boat; but the sea was so rough,
and they all in consequence became so sick, that they were glad to hide the basket out of sight.

Thus it came to pass that the Roverings ate their lunch and supper all in one, and decided
that their day at Coney Island had not been a success.

A SALT-WATER AQUARIUM.

BY A. W. ROBERTS.

Hundreds of young people are now spending their vacation on or near the sea-shore, and have
a good opportunity to study the wonderful habits of animal and vegetable marine life. Therefore
I have undertaken to throw out a few plain hints as to the management of a salt-water aquarium,
in which these interesting forms of nature can be observed to greater advantage.

We will start off with one of the small tin frame tanks sold in New York so cheap, or a candy
jar, or a small-sized wash-tub--any vessel that will hold water, and is not of iron, tin, or
copper, either of which will poison the water.

After washing out the tank carefully, and filling it with clear sea-water, we will place in
it twelve silver-shrimps (bait shrimps). At the end of two days they are dead, and you ask
why did they die when they had so much water to live in. They died of suffocation, after they
had breathed all the air contained in the water. We will take out the dead shrimps, and in
the same water place a good handful of ulva (sea-lettuce, sea-salad), one of the most common
of all marine plants, and place the aquarium in a strong and direct sunlight, by this means
exciting the ulva to work, or, as it is termed, aerify the water. In less than an hour's time
a froth will be seen forming on the surface of the water, and adhering to the sides of the
aquarium. Now observe the ulva closely, and from its edges and surface very fine threads of
silvery bubbles are pouring out and ascending to the surface. In an hour's time the water will
be thoroughly charged with air. We will again place twelve more shrimps in the aquarium. This
time they will live, and we will have established a true aquarium--an aquarium based on the
self-sustaining principles of nature, wherein it will not be necessary to change the water.

Fish as well as human beings breathe air. Air is contained in all water. After the shrimps
had breathed or used the air contained in the water several times over, it became unfit to
sustain animal life any longer, and so they smothered: just the same as if a number of people
were placed in a room, and all the doors and windows and ventilators were sealed up tight,
so that no new air could enter. They, too, would suffocate in a short time and die. All plants
living in water are constantly manufacturing new and pure air for their friends and companions
the fishes, particularly when under the action of sunlight.

The great secret in establishing a self-supporting aquarium is to establish a natural balance
of water, fish, plants, and light, so that none of these agents are wanting in quantity. For
instance, a strong light is required to cause a healthy development of the plant life, but
not direct sunlight, or the plants will be forced too rapidly, and death will soon follow.
Again, direct sunlight will increase the temperature of the water to such an extent that many
of the fish will die. If the animal life is in excess of the plant life and the water contained
in the aquarium, the animals will perish for want of sufficient air. Again, if the aquarium
is overstocked with plants, so that they are crowded so closely that the light fails to reach
some of them, decomposition will take place, and everything will become a decaying mass. In
fact, it is only by beginning on a very modest scale, with a very few and small fish at first,
and by gradually increasing the number, that a beginner can expect to succeed. Over-stocking
with animal life and overfeeding are the two greatest temptations that beset the path to success
for the aquariumist; but patience, perseverance, and critical observation will eventually lead
to success.

The greatest care must be taken, and all shells, rock-work, sand, and plants must be washed
over several times, so that no injurious substances may be introduced.

Ulva, or sea-lettuce, is to be found in abundance in all our small bays and inlets at low tide.
For the aquarium, those specimens which are thick in texture, and of a dark green color, only
are fit for manufacturing air. Never be tempted to make use of the light green and thin specimens,
as they are not sufficiently matured, and will soon decay if placed in the tank.

Scallops when young have a curious way of changing their location by means of opening their
shells and then closing them with great force, which sends them off at an angle, and so they
go dancing along the bottom till they reach a spot that suits them. This shell-fish forms a
beautiful addition to an aquarium.

The silver-shrimp, with figured back (all other varieties must be avoided), I have always considered
as constituting a Board of Health in an aquarium; for no sooner does the water become unhealthy
than these transparent and grasshopper-like creatures will make desperate attempts to jump
out of the tank. These shrimps, and the little hermit-crab, and the buccinum (a small black
sea-snail) are Nature's house-cleaners. They are always on the look-out for decaying animal
or vegetable matter, which, if not in too large quantities, they speedily devour.

I have seen these black snails gather on a dead fish from a distance of half a mile; in less
than a day's time nothing was left of the fish but his bones and scales, and these were picked
so clean that they had a polished look. These snails are provided with ribbon-like tongues,
from which project a great number of minute and beautifully constructed teeth. By passing these
tongues backward and forward rapidly they cut their food down much as a mowing-machine cuts
grass. These snails are the scavengers of all dead fish and vegetable substances found in our
bays and rivers, and to them we owe a great deal of the purity of our waters.

