His avarice swayed his will stronger than his compunctions. The five hundred gold sequins,
which were to be counted out to him on the completion of the work, which it was calculated
would occupy three years, was too tempting an offer; and yet the offer was not sufficiently
liberal in his opinion: as we have seen, he suggested that it should be increased one-fifth;
he was right; for in those days as much, and even twice as much, was sometimes given for a
mere translation: Lorenzo Valla got five hundred gold sequins for his Latin translation of
Thucydides; Filelfo would have received twice as much, and, in addition to the thousand gold
pieces, a handsome town house in Rome and a good landed estate if he would have translated
the Iliad and the Odyssey into Latin verse. Bracciolini may, therefore, have succeeded in obtaining
the increased price of six hundred sequins. Still he was not the kind of man to have been satisfied
with this only: when he translated Diodorus Siculus, he required to be supported while engaged
in its execution; and supported he was by the liberality of the Popes. The proposal of Lamberteschi
included board and lodging, and in the house of the Florentine; Bracciolini expressed his willingness
to accept that; but on the condition that Lamberteschi did not move about, for he wanted, as
a prime necessity, to remain quite quiet, as the great literary undertaking in which he was
about to be engaged would call for a more than usual amount of patient attention and labour:
"libenter vivam cum Piero, nisi Scythae simus, libenter enim quiesco" (Ep. I. 17). We have
seen that Bracciolini did not avail himself of what was proffered to him in this matter on
account of his re-appointment to the Papal Secretariate: had it not been so he would have unquestionably
called upon his friend Lamberteschi to fulfil this part of the contract; as before his appointment
to an ecclesiastical living in England, he had been boarded and lodged by Cardinal Beaufort,
and that too, on a scale of regal magnificence. He tells us himself in one of his Letters (Ep.
I. 6), that, while the Cardinal, as vagrant as a Scythian, was continually absent from home,
(it must have been on his episcopal visitations or in the discharge of his State duties), he
staid behind in the Palace in London, passing his time peacefully and pleasantly in a splendid
library, and vying at the expense of his princely patron with the magnificence of the king
himself in the sumptuousness of his fare and the costliness of his apparel: "Dominus meus,
quasi continuo abest, vagus ut Scytha, ego autem hic dego, in quiete libris involvor. Providetur
mihi pro victu et vestitu, idque est satis, neque enim amplius vel Rex ex hoc tanto apparatu
rerum capit." [Endnote 297]

When we bear in mind his strong desire for gain, we may consider it not unlikely that, adhering
to his bargain, he exacted from Lamberteschi some equivalent in lieu of the board and lodging:
be that as it may, after the lapse of three years, (as may be seen from letters that passed
between himself and Niccoli), he had then completed, as had been rightly calculated, the first
instalment of his forgery.

II. In those days when so many valuable works ascribed to the ancients were being constantly
recovered, there was a very general (though as I have shown, very silly) belief abroad, that
any ancient work, consequently, the lost History of Tacitus, might yet be found in some dark
corner of Europe,--some barbarous country such as Germany, Hungary, or Bohemia. Accident decided
that Bracciolini chose a place for the asserted recovery of what he had forged different from
what had been arranged between himself and his friends in 1422, while they were devising the
fabrication, namely, Hungary: when Bracciolini said that, "if he did go to Hungary he would
pretend that he had come from England," the object must have been that no one should know the
country where the MS. had been recovered; any busybody would be thus effectively foiled in
visiting the right spot, and there prying about, making inquiries and ascertaining all the
particulars with respect to the alleged discovery of some recent rare manuscript. The place
thus decided on by accident was a town in Saxony at the farthest eastern extremity of that
country on the borders of Bohemia, named Hirschfeldt, formerly the capital of Hesse Cassel,
but which, after the peace of Westphalia, when it was secularized, became only a part of that
principality. In the far-away times, it was famous for an Abbey of the Benedictine monks, which
had been founded on the banks of the Fulda in the first half of the eighth century, in the
year 737, in the reign of King Pepin, by a disciple of St. Boniface, St. Lul, who became Boniface's
successor in the Bishopric of Mayence. The accident which caused Bracciolini to choose this
convent, the most famous in Germany, as the place whence his forgery was to emanate, was his
forming the acquaintance of a member of the abbey, who attended in the name of his brother
Benedictines to watch a case that was being litigated for the monastery in the ecclesiastical
courts of Rome. From some reason unexplained this monk was under obligation to Bracciolini,
who determined that this holy man should be the medium of his forgery being placed before the
world. The monk had the necessary qualifications for the tool that was wanted; he was needy
and ignorant; above all things, he was stupid. "The good fellow," says Bracciolini in his scornful
way to Niccoli, "who has not our attainments, thought that we were equally ignorant of what
he found he did not know himself"--"Vir ille bonus, expers studiorum nostrorum, quicquid reperit
ignotum sibi, id et apud nos incognitum putavit" (Ep. III 12).

He gave this booby monk a long list of books that he was to hunt out for him on the library
shelves of the Abbey of Fulda, including in the catalogue the works of Tacitus; and as he wanted
a copy of the latter in the very oldest writing that could be procured, he enjoined the monk
to give him a full description of certain books that were carefully put down in a list; these
being very numerous, the monk could not possibly divine that the book particularly wanted was
a Tacitus in the oldest characters that could be found.

III. These instructions were given in May, 1427; and, notwithstanding the care and wisdom shown
in the matter, something before the close of the summer that year oozed out which seemed to
menace a disclosure of the imposture: rumours had got abroad evidently about what was transpiring
between Niccoli and Bracciolini, which greatly alarmed the former; but he was quieted by his
bolder friend assuring him that "when Tacitus came, he would keep it a secresy; that he knew
all the tittle- tattle that was going on,--whence it came,--through whom, and how it was got
up; but that he need have no fear, for that not a syllable should escape him."--"Cornelium
Tacitum, cum venerit, observabo penes me occulte. Scio enim omnem illam cantilenam, et unde
exierit, et per quem, et quis eum vendicet. Sed nil dubites, non exibit a me ne verbo quidem."

These words occur in a letter that bears date Rome, the 25th of September, 1427; and whatever
interpretation the reader may feel disposed to put upon them, he must admit, after considering
all that has been said, that they seem to confirm wonderfully the truth of our theory, pointing,
as they unquestionably do, to some mysterious and deep secret about Tacitus that existed only
between Niccoli and Bracciolini; and what could that secret be? It could not be about the recovery
of a rare and valuable copy of the works of Tacitus. There would be no necessity of keeping
that by one secretly; on the contrary, the proper thing to do was to noise it abroad immediately,
and as publicly as could be, so that it might be known to a wide circle of book-collectors,
and as large a sum got for it as could be obtained; but if it were a Tacitus in the oldest
characters that were to be found in order that it should be made use of as a copy for the letters
in a figment, one can then easily understand the cause for all this secresy. "Thus conscience
doth make cowards of us all." In fact, forgery, and nothing else than forgery, seems to be
the easiest as well as the most feasible explanation of these remarks, which, were it not for
this theory, would, instead of being very clear, be quite nebulous.

IV. The Tacitus that was to have come from Germany did not, however, arrive. "I hear nothing
of the Tacitus that is in Germany," he observes towards the close of the letter. "I am expecting
an answer from the monk."--"De Cornelio Tacito qui est in Germania nil sentio; expecto responsum
ab illo monacho." (Ep. III. 14.)

Towards the close of September, then, 1427, what Bracciolini had written had not yet been given
to the transcriber: time was passing; and Niccoli sent him in the following month what must
have been the oldest copy of Tacitus he had in his collection. Bracciolini thanked him for
it, but complained that the Lombard characters, in which it was written, were half effaced;
and that if he had only known what he was about to do, he would have spared him the trouble.
He went on to say that he remembered having read a copy of Tacitus in antique characters which
Niccoli had in his possession, and which he had purchased at the sale of the library of his
old friend Coluccio Salutati, or some other large book collector. He was desirous of having
that or some other that could be read; for it would be difficult to find a transcriber who,
without making mistakes, could read the manuscript that he had sent him:--"Misisti mihi librum
Senecae, et Cornelium Tacitum, quod est mihi gratum; et is est litteris longobardis, et majori
ex parte caducis, quod si scissem, liberassem te eo labore. Legi olim quemdam apud vos manens
litteris antiquis; nescio Colucii ne esset, an alterius. Illum cupio habere, vel alium, qui
legi possit; nam difficile erit reperire scriptorem qui hunc codicem recte legat" (Ep. III. 15).

