We at length sailed for England, with an ample supply of provisions; but, unhappily, we were
boarded by pirates during the voyage, and nearly reduced to starvation. My panther must have
perished had it not been for a collection of more than three hundred parrots, with which we
sailed from the river, and which died very fast while we were in the northwest trades. Saï's
allowance was one per diem, but this was so scanty a pittance that he became ravenous, and
had not patience to pick all the feathers off before he commenced his meal. The consequence
was, that he became very ill, and refused even this small quantity of food. Those around tried
to persuade me that he suffered from the colder climate; but his dry nose and paw convinced
me that he was feverish, and I had him taken out of his cage; when, instead of jumping about
and enjoying his liberty, he lay down, and rested his head upon my feet. I then made him three
pills, each containing two grains of calomel. The boy who had the charge of him, and who was
much attached to him, held his jaws open, and I pushed the medicine down his throat. Early
the next morning I went to visit my patient, and found his guard sleeping in the cage with
him; and having administered a further dose to the invalid, I had the satisfaction of seeing
him perfectly cured by the evening. On the arrival of the vessel in the London Docks, Saï was
taken ashore, and presented to the Duchess of York, who placed him in Exeter Change, to be
taken care of, till she herself went to Oatlands. He {39} remained there for some weeks, and
was suffered to roam about the greater part of the day without any restraint. On the morning
previous to the Duchess's departure from town, she went to visit her new pet, played with him,
and admired his healthy appearance and gentle deportment. In the evening, when her Royal Highness'
coachman went to take him away, he was dead, in consequence of an inflammation on his lungs--Loudon's
Magazine of Natural History.

[1: The panther in these countries is a sacred, or Fetish,
    animal; and not only a heavy fine is extorted from those
    who kill one, but the Fetish is supposed to revenge his
    death by cursing the offender.]

                 *       *       *       *       *

Manners & Customs of all Nations.

SACRAMENTAL BREAD.

The church of Rome, in the height of its power, was extremely scrupulous in all that related
to the sacramental bread. According to Steevens, in his Monasticon, they first chose the wheat,
grain by grain, and washed it very carefully. Being put into a bag, appointed only for that
use, a servant, known to be a just man, carried it to the mill, worked the grindstones, covering
them with curtains above and below; and having put on himself an albe, covered his face with
a veil, nothing but his eyes appearing. The same precaution was used with the meal. It was
not baked till it had been well washed; and the warden of the church, if he were either priest
or deacon, finished the work, being assisted by two other religious men, who were in the same
orders, and by a lay brother, particularly appointed for that business. These four monks, when
matins were ended, washed their faces and hands. The three first of them put on albes; one
of them washed the meal with pure, clean water, and the other two baked the hosts in the iron
moulds. So great was the veneration and respect, say their historians, the monks of Cluni paid
to the Eucharist! Even at this day, in the country, the baker who prepares the sacramental
wafer, must be appointed and authorized to do it by the Catholic bishop of the district, as
appears by the advertisement inserted in that curious book, published annually, The Catholic
Laity's Directory.

                 *       *       *       *       *

FOSTER CHILDREN.

                 *       *       *       *       *

THE IRISH PEOPLE.

Holinshed, speaking of the Irish, observes:--"Greedy of praise they be, and fearful of dishonour;
and to this end they esteem their poets, who write Irish learnedly, and pen their sonnets heroical,
for the which they are bountifully rewarded; if not, they send out libels in dispraise, whereof
the lords and gentlemen stand in great awe. They love tenderly their foster children, and bequeath
to them a child's fortune, whereby they nourish sure friendship,--so beneficent every way,
that commonly 500 cows and better are given in reward to win a nobleman's child to foster;
they love and trust their foster children more than their own. Proud they are of long crisped
bushes of hair, which they term libs. They observe divers degrees, according to which each
man is regarded. The basest sort among them are little young wasps, called daltins: these are
lacqueys, and are serviceable to the grooms, or horseboys, who are a degree above the daltins.
The third degree is the kaerne, which is an ordinary soldier, using for weapon his sword and
target, and sometimes his piece, being commonly so good marksmen, as they will come within
a score of a great cartele. The fourth degree is a gallowglass, using a kind of poll-axe for
his weapon, strong, robust men, chiefly feeding on beef, pork, and butter. The fifth degree
is to be a horseman, which is the {40} chiefest, next to the lord and captain. These horsemen,
when they have no stay of their own, gad and range from house to house, and never dismount
till they ride into the hall, and as far as the tables."

                 *       *       *       *       *

MARRIAGE.

The minister of Logierait, in Perthshire, in his statistical account of that parish, supplies
us with the following curious information on this and other marriage ceremonies:--"Immediately
before the celebration of the marriage ceremony, every knot about the bride and bridegroom
(garters, shoe-strings, strings of petticoats, &c.) is carefully loosed. After leaving the
church, the whole company walk round it, keeping the church walls always upon the right hand;
the bridegroom, however, first retires one way, with some young men, to tie the knots that
were loosened about him, while the young married woman, in the same manner, retires somewhere
else to adjust the disorder of her dress."

                 *       *       *       *       *

NEEDFIRE. So much for superstition.--It is handed down by tradition, that the ancient Druids
superintended a similar ceremony of raising a sacred fire, annually, on the first day of May.
That day is still, both in the Gaelic and Irish dialects, called Lâ-bealtin, i.e. the day of
Baal's fire, or the fire dedicated to Baal, or the sun."

                 *       *       *       *       *

UNSPOKEN WATER.

In Scotland, water from under a bridge, over which the living pass and the dead are carried,
brought in the dawn or twilight to the house of a sick person, without the bearer's speaking,
either in going or returning, is called Unspoken Water.

The modes of application are various. Sometimes the invalid takes three draughts of it before
anything is spoken. Sometimes it is thrown over the houses the vessel in which it was contained
being thrown after it. The superstitious believe this to be one of the most powerful charms
that can be employed for restoring a sick person to health.

The purifying virtue attributed to water, by almost all nations, is so well known as to require
no illustration. Some special virtue has still been ascribed to silence in the use of charms,
exorcisms, &c. I recollect, says Mr. Jamieson, being assured at Angus, that a Popish priest
in that part of the country, who was supposed to possess great power in curing those who were
deranged, and in exorcising demoniacs, would, if called to see a patient, on no account utter
a single word on his way, or after arriving at the house, till he had by himself gone through
all his appropriate forms in order to effect a cure. Whether this practice might be founded
on our Lord's injunction to the Seventy, expressive of the diligence he required, Luke x. 4,
"Salute no man by the way," or borrowed from heathen superstition, it is impossible to ascertain.
We certainly know that the Romans viewed silence as of the utmost importance in their sacred
rites. Hence the phrase of Virgil,---

  "Fida silentia sacris."

Fauere sacris, fauere linguis, and {41}pascere linguam, were forms of speech appropriated to
their sacred rites, by which they enjoined silence, that the act of worship might not be disturbed
by the slightest noise or murmur. Hence also they honoured Harpocrates as the god of silence;
and Numa instituted the worship of a goddess under the name of Tacita.

                 *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY

FILTERING APPARATUS.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Herewith I send you an outline drawing of an economical filtering apparatus, suitable for the
use of any dwelling. Its construction is perfectly simple, and at the cost of a few shillings
in its erection. The pot consists of an unglazed inverted vessel, manufactured at potteries
for the use of sugar-bakers, and placed through a hole in a triangular board, resting upon
two ledges, occupying a corner in a kitchen or any other apartment. In the inside of the pot
a bushel of the whitest sand is to be introduced; which sand, after being washed in a clean
tub with about three changes of water, to dissolve and clear away the clayey matter, is to
be mixed with half a peck of finely-bruised charcoal. This will fill about one-third of the
pot; but before the sand is placed in the vessel, the small hole at the bottom of the pot should
have an oyster-shell placed over it, with the convex side uppermost, to prevent the sand washing
through. This filters foul water perfectly pellucid and clear very quickly, as I have seen
its effects for years with the most perfect success. When the sand becomes foul by time, it
can be taken out and washed, or fresh materials can be repeated; great care should be observed
not to put more water in the pot than your vessel underneath will receive.

JNO. FIELD.

*       *       *       *       *

Effects of Lightning.

The analogy between the electric spark, and more especially of the explosive discharge of the
Leyden jar, with atmospheric lightning and thunder, is too obvious to have escaped notice,
even in the early periods of electrical research. It had been observed by Dr. Wall and by Gray,
and still more pointedly remarked by the Abbé Nollet. Dr. Franklin was so impressed with the
many points of resemblance between lightning and electricity, that he was convinced of their
identity, and determined to ascertain by direct experiment the truth of his bold conjecture.
A spire which was erecting at Philadelphia he conceived might assist him in this inquiry; but,
while waiting for its completion, the sight of a boy's kite, which had been raised for amusement,
immediately suggested to him a more ready method of attaining his object. Having constructed
a kite by stretching a large silk handkerchief over two sticks in the form of a cross, on the
first appearance of an approaching storm, in June 1752, he went out into a field, accompanied
by his son, to whom alone he had imparted his design. Having raised his kite, and attached
a key to the lower end of the hempen string, he insulated it by fastening it to a post, by
means of silk, and waited with intense anxiety for the result. A considerable time elapsed
without the apparatus giving any sign of electricity, even although a dense cloud, apparently
charged with lightning, had passed over the spot on which they stood. Franklin was just beginning
to despair of success, when his attention was caught by the bristling up of some loose fibres
on the hempen cord; he immediately presented his knuckle to the key, and received an electric
spark. Overcome with the emotion {42} inspired by this decisive evidence of the great discovery
he had achieved, he heaved a deep sigh, and conscious of an immortal name, felt that he could
have been content if that moment had been his last. The rain now fell in torrents, and wetting
the string, rendered it conducting in its whole length; so that electric sparks were now collected
from it in great abundance.

It should be noticed, however, that about a month before Franklin had made these successful
trials, some philosophers, in particular Dalibard and De Lors, had obtained similar results
in France, by following the plan recommended by Franklin. But the glory of the discovery is
universally given to Franklin, as it was from his suggestions that the methods of attaining
it were originally derived.

This important discovery was prosecuted with great ardour by philosophers in every part of
Europe. The first experimenters incurred considerable risk in their attempts to draw down electricity
from the clouds, as was soon proved by the fatal catastrophe, which, on the 6th of August,
1753, befel Professor Richman, of Petersburg. He had constructed an apparatus for observations
on atmospherical electricity, and was attending a meeting of the Academy of Sciences, when
the sound of distant thunder caught his ear. He immediately hastened home, taking with him
his engraver, Sokolow, in order that he might delineate the appearances that should present
themselves. While intent upon examining the electrometer, a large globe of fire flashed from
the conducting rod, which was insulated, to the head of Richman, and passing through his body,
instantly deprived him of life. A red spot was found on his forehead, where the electricity
had entered, his shoe was burst open, and part of his clothes singed. His companion was struck
down, and remained senseless for some time; the door-case of the room was split, and the door
itself torn off its hinges.

The protection of buildings from the effects of lightning, is the most important practical
application of the theory of electricity. Conductors for this should be formed of metallic
rods, pointed at the upper extremity, and placed so as to project a few feet above the highest
part of the building they are intended to secure; they should be continued without interruption
till they descend into the ground, below the foundation of the house. Copper is preferable
to iron as the material for their construction, being less liable to destruction by rust, or
by fusion, and possessing also a greater conducting power. The size of the rods should be from
half an inch to an inch in diameter, and the point should be gilt, or made of platina, that
it may be more effectually preserved from corrosion. An important condition in the protecting
conductor is, that no interruption should exist in its continuity from top to bottom; and advantage
will result from connecting together by strips of metal all the leaden water pipes, or other
considerable masses of metal in or about the building, so as to form one continuous system
of conductors, for carrying the electricity by different channels to the ground. The lower
end of the conductors should be carried down into the earth till it reaches either water, or
at least a moist stratum.--Library of Useful Knowledge.

                 *       *       *       *       *

The Sketch-Book.

THE MYSTERIOUS TAILOR.

A Romance of High Holborn.

It came to pass that, towards the close of 1826, I found occasion to change my tailor, and
by chance, or the recommendation of friends--I cannot now remember which--applied to one who
vegetated in that particular region of the metropolis where the rivers of Museum-street and
Drury-lane (to adopt the language of metaphor) flow into and form the capacious estuary of
High Holborn. Whoever has sailed along, or cast anchor in this confluence, must have seen the
individual I allude to. He sits--I should perhaps say sat, inasmuch as he is since defunct--bolt
upright, with a pen behind his ear, in the centre of a dingy, spectral-looking shop, quaintly
hung round with clothes, of divers forms and patterns, in every stage of existence--from the
first crude conception of the incipient surtout or pantaloons, down to the last glorious touch
that immortalizes the artist. His figure is slim and undersized; his cheeks are sallow, with
two furrows on each side his nose, filled not unfrequently with snuff; his eyes project like
lobsters', and cast their shifting glances about with a vague sort of mysterious intelligence;
and his voice--his startling, solemn, unearthly voice--seems hoarse with sepulchral vapours,
and puts forth its tones like the sighing of the wind among tombs. With regard to his dress,
it is in admirable keeping with his countenance. He wears a black coat, fashioned in the mould
of other times, with large cloth buttons and flowing skirts; drab inexpressibles, fastened
at the knee with brass buckles; gaiters, which, reaching no higher than the calf of the leg,
set up independent claims to eccentricity and exact consideration on their own account; creaking,
square-toed shoes; and a hat, broad in front, pinched up at the sides, verging to an angle
behind, and worn close over the forehead, with the lower part resting on the nose. His manner
is equally peculiar; it cannot be called vulgar, nor yet genteel--for it is too passive for
the one, and too pompous for the other; it forms, say, a sort of compromise between the two,
with a slight infusion of pedantry that greatly adds to its effect.

On reaching this oddity's abode, I at once proceeded to business; and was promised, in reply,
the execution of my order on the customary terms of credit. Thus far is strictly natural. The
clothes came home, and so, with admirable punctuality, did the bill; but the death of a valued
friend having withdrawn me, soon afterwards, from London, six months elapsed; at the expiration
of which time I was refreshed, as agreed on, by a pecuniary application from my tailor. Perhaps
I should here mention, to the better understanding of my tale, that I am a medical practitioner,
of somewhat nervous temperament, derived partly from inheritance, and partly from an inveterate
indulgence of the imagination. My income, too--which seldom or never encumbers a surgeon who
has not yet done walking the hospitals--is limited, and, at this present period, was so far
contracted as to keep me in continual suspense. In this predicament my tailor's memorandum
was any thing but satisfactory. I wrote accordingly to entreat his forbearance for six months
longer, and, as I received no reply, concluded that all was satisfactorily arranged. Unluckily,
however, as I was strolling, about a month afterwards, along the Strand, I chanced to stumble
up against him. The shock seemed equally unexpected on both sides; but my tailor (as being
a dun) was the first to recover self-possession; and, with a long preliminary hem!--a mute,
but expressive compound of remonstrance, apology, and resolution--opened his fire as follows:--

"I believe, sir, your name is D----?"

"I believe it is, sir."

"Well, then, Mr. D----, touching that little account between us, I have to request, sir, that--"

"Very good; nothing can be more reasonable; wait the appointed time, and you shall have all."

This answer served, in some degree, to appease him; no, not exactly to appease him, because
that would imply previous excitement, and he was invariably imperturbable in manner; it satisfied
him, however, for the present, and he forthwith walked away, casting on me that equivocal sort
of look with which Ajax turned from Ulysses, or Dido from Æneas, in the Shades.

A lapse of a few weeks ensued, during which I heard nothing further from my persecutor; when,
one dark November evening--one of those peculiarly English evenings, full of fog and gloom,
when the half-frozen sleet, joined in its descent by gutters from the house-tops, comes driving
full in your face, blinding you to all external objects--on one of these blessed evenings,
on my road to Camden Town, I chanced to miss my way, and was compelled, notwithstanding a certain
shyness towards strangers, to ask my direction of the first respectable person I should meet.
Many passed me by, but none sufficiently prepossessing; when, on turning down some nameless
street that leads to Tottenham Court-road, I chanced to come behind a staid-looking gentleman,
accoutred in a dark brown coat, with an umbrella--the cotton of which had shrunk half-way up
the whalebone--held obliquely over his head. Hastily stepping up to him, "Pray, sir," said
I, "could you be kind enough to direct me to ---- place, Camden Town?"

The unknown, thus addressed, made the slightest possible inclination towards me; and then,
in an under tone, "I believe, sir, your name is D----?"

I paused; a vague sort of recollection came over me. Could it be?--no, surely not! And yet
the voice--the manner--the--the--

My suspicions were soon converted into certainty, when the stranger, with his own peculiar
expression, quietly broke forth a second time with, "Touching that little account--"

This was enough; it was more than enough--it was vexatiously superfluous. To be dunned for
a debt, at the very time when the nerves could best dispense with the application; to be recalled
back to the vulgarities of existence, at that precise moment when the imagination was most
abstracted from all commercial common-places; to be stopped by a tailor, (and such a tailor!)
when the mind was dreaming of a mistress--the bare idea was intolerable! So I thought; and,
without further explanation, hurried precipitately from the spot, nor ever once paused till
far removed from the husky tones of that sepulchral voice which had once before so highly excited
my annoyance.

[The narrater then visits one of Mr. Champagne Wright's masquerades, where he falls in love
with a fresco nun. He receives a billet.]

I stood like one bewildered; but, soon recovering my self-possession, moved direct towards
the chandelier, with a view to peruse an epistle expressive of woman's fondest love. As with
glistening eyes I proceeded to tear open the billet, a flood of transporting thoughts swept
over me. I fancied that I was on the eve of acquaintance with ----; but, judge my astonishment,
when, instead of the expected document, the key to such transporting bliss, I read, engraved
in large German text, on a dirty square card, embossed at the edge with flowers, the revolting,
business-like address of

  Mr. Thomas M----e,
       Tailor,
  116, High Holborn.

It so happened that, the next day, I dined with C----. Of course the masquerade, and with that
the tailor, were the first topics of conversation between us. Both allowed that the circumstances
respecting his late appearance were uncommon; but there, with my friend, the matter ended:
with me it was a more enduring subject for reflection; and, after a night kept up till a late
hour over a bowl of C----'s most faultless punch, I set out, moody and apprehensive, to my
humble abode. By this time it was past three o'clock; the streets were nearly all deserted.--While
thoughtfully plodding onwards, a sudden noise from the Holborn end of Drury-lane took my attention;
it evidently proceeded from a row--a systematic, scientific row; and, indeed, as I drew near
the scene of action, I could distinctly hear the watchman's oaths blending in deep chorus with
the treble of some dozen or two valorous exquisites.

I felt certain rising abstract ideas of pugnacity, and conceived myself bound to indulge them
on the first head and shoulders I should meet. This spirit brought me at once into the thick
of the fight, and, before I was well aware of my proximity, I found myself fast anchored alongside
a veteran watchman, with a pigtail and half a nose. The conflict now commenced in good earnest;
there were few or no attempts at favouritism; the blows of one friend told equally well on
the scull of another; watchman assaulted watchman with a zeal respectable for its sincerity;
and, indeed, had these last been any thing more than a bundle of old coats and oaths, they
would most undoubtedly have drubbed each other into a better world. After a lively and well-sustained
affair of about twenty minutes, a squadron of auxiliary watchmen arrived, and, with some difficulty,
deposited us all safely in the watch-house. And here the very first person that met my gaze--seated,
with due regard to dignity, in an arm-chair, a pair of spectacles on his nose, a glass of brandy-and-water
by his side, and a newspaper, redolent of cheese, before him--was the constable of the night--the
nun of the masquerade--the Mysterious Tailor of High Holborn! The wretch's eyes gleamed with
a savage but subdued joy at the recognition; a low, chuckling laugh escaped him; while his
dull countenance, made doubly revolting by the dim light of the watch-house, fell, fixed and
scowling, upon me, as he pointed towards the spot where I stood.--"Dobson," he exclaimed; and,
at the word, forth stepped the owner of this melodious appellative, with "this here man."--Luckily,
before he could finish his charge, a five-shilling-piece, which I thrust into his unsuspecting
palm, created a diversion among the watchmen in my behalf; under favour of which, while my
arch enemy was adjusting his books, I contrived to escape from his detested presence.

It happened that about a month subsequent to this last rencontre, circumstances led me to Bologne,
whither I arrived, late in the evening, by the steamboat. On being directed to the best English
hotel in that truly social Anglo-Gallic little town, I chanced to find in the coffee-room an
old crony, whom I had known years since at Cambridge, and who had just arrived from Switzerland,
on a speculation connected with some vineyards.

I had a thousand questions to ask my friend, a thousand memories to disinter from their graves
in my heart, past follies to re-enact, past scenes to re-people. We began with our school-days,
pursued the subject to Cambridge, carried it back again to Reading, and thence traced it through
all its windings, now in sunshine, now in gloom, till the canvass of our recollection was fairly
filled with portraits. In this way, time, unperceived, slipped on; noon deepened into evening,
evening blackened into midnight, yet nothing but our wine was exhausted.

At last, after a long evening spent in the freest and most social converse, my friend quitted
the coffee-room, while I--imitating, as I went, the circumlocutory windings of the Meander--proceeded
to my allotted chamber. Unfortunately, on reaching the head of the first staircase, where two
opposite doors presented themselves, I opened (as a matter of course) the wrong one, which
led me into a spacious apartment, in which were placed two fat, full-grown beds. My lantern
happening to go out at the moment, I was compelled to forego all further scrutiny, so without
more ado, flung off my clothes, and dived, at one dexterous plunge, right into the centre of
the nearest vacant bed. In an instant I was fast asleep; my imagination, oppressed with the
day's events, had become fairly exhausted, and I now lay chained down in that heavy, dreamless
sleep, which none but fatigued travellers can appreciate. Towards daybreak, I was roused by
a peculiar long-drawn snore, proceeding from the next bed. The music, though deep, was gusty,
vulgar, and ludicrous, like a west wind whistling through a wash-house. I should know it among
a thousand snores. At first I took no notice of this diversified sternutation, but as it deepened
every moment in energy, terminating in something like a groan, I was compelled to pay it the
homage of my admiration and astonishment. This attention, however, soon flagged; in a few minutes
I was a second time asleep, nor did I again awake till the morning was far advanced. At this
eventful juncture, while casting my eyes round the room with all the voluptuous indolence of
a jaded traveller, they suddenly chanced to fall on a gaunt, spectral figure, undressed, unwashed,
unshaved, decked out in a red worsted night-cap, its left cheek swollen, as if with cold or
tooth-ache, and seated bolt upright in the very next bed, scarce six inches off my nose. And
this figure was----but I need add no more; the reader must by this time have fully anticipated
my discovery.

That night I started from Bologne. I could no more have endured to stop there, conscious that
the town contained my persecutor, than I could have flown. Accordingly, after a hurried breakfast,
I proceeded to arrange what little business I had to transact; and this completed, away I posted
to the well-known shop of Monsieur ----, dentist, perruquier, and general agent to the steam-packet
company. Fortunately the little man was at home, and received me with his usual courtesy. He
was very, very sorry that he could not stay to converse with me, but a patient in the inner
parlour required his immediate attendance; he must therefore--. I entreated him not to apologize;
my business was simple--it was merely to ascertain at what hour the first packet sailed; and
having so said, and received a satisfactory reply, I prepared to quit the shop, when just as
I was turning round to shut the door, I caught a glimpse through the half-closed curtains that
shaded the inner room of a cheek and one eye. The cheek was swollen, and a solitary patch of
snuff rested, like a fly, upon its surface. It was the Mysterious Tailor; he had come in to
have his tooth pulled out.

Notwithstanding my anxiety to quit Bologne, it was evening before I was on board the packet;
nor did I feel myself at ease, until the heights had dwindled to a speck, and the loud carols
of the fishermen returning home from their day's sport, had sunk into a faint, undistinguished
whisper. Our vessel's course for the first hour or so was delightful. Towards night, the weather,
which had hitherto proved so serene, began to fluctuate; the wind shifted, and gradually a
heavy swell came rolling in from the north-east towards us. As the hour advanced, a storm seemed
advancing with it; and a hundred symptoms appeared, the least of which was fully sufficient
to certify the coming on of a tremendous hurricane. Our captain, however--a bronzed, pinched-up
little fellow, whom a series of north-westers seemed to have dried to a mummy--put a good face
on the matter, and our mate whistled bluffly, though I could not help fancying that his whistle
had something forced about it.

We had by this time been tossing about upwards of four hours, yet despite the storm, which
increased every moment in energy, our vessel bore up well, labouring and pitching frightfully
to be sure, but as yet uninjured in sail, mast, or hull. As for her course, it was--so the
mate assured me--"a moral impossible to say which way we were bound, whether for a trip to
Spain, Holland, or Van Dieman's Land; it might be one, it might be t'other." Scarcely had he
uttered these words, when a long rolling sea came sweeping on in hungry grandeur towards us,
and at one rush tore open the ship's gun-wale, which now, completely at the mercy of the wave,
went staggering, drunken, and blindfold, through the surge. From this fatal moment the sailors
were kept constantly at the pumps, although so instantaneous was the rush of water into the
hold, that they did little or no good; there seemed, in fact, not the ghost of a chance left
us; even the mate had ceased whistling, and the captain's oaths began to assume the nature
of a compromise between penitence and hardihood.

It was now midnight, deep, awful midnight; the few remaining passengers had left the deck and
retreated into a bed which they shared in common with the salt water. The Captain stood, like
one bewildered, beside the helm, while I lay stretched along the forecastle, watching, as well
as I could, the tremendous rushing of the waves. It was during a partial hush of the storm,
when the wind, as if out of breath, was still, that a shifting light attached to some moving
body, came bearing down full upon us.

"This is an ugly night, sir," said the Captain, who now, for the first time, found words, "yet
methinks I see a sail a-head."

"Surely not," I replied, "no earthly vessel but our own can live on such a sea."

Scarcely had the words escaped me, when "helm a lee!" was roared out in a loud emphatic tone,
something between rage and fright.

The captain strove to turn his helm, but in vain, the rudder had lost all power. At this instant,
a rushing sound swept past us, and the two ships came in direct contact with each other. The
crash was tremendous: down with a dizzy spinning motion went the strange vessel; one yell--but
one shrill piercing yell, which is ever sounding in my ears, ensued--a pause, and all was over.

My heart died within me at that cry; an icy shudder crept through me, every hair of my head
seemed endowed with separate vitality. To go down into the tomb--and such a tomb!--unwept,
unknown, the very lights from the English coast still discernible in distance, yet not a friend
to hold forth aid; the idea was inexpressibly awful. Just at this crisis, while grasping the
bannister with weak hands, I lay faint and hopeless on the deck, I fancied I saw a dark figure
crawling up the cabin-steps towards me. I listened; the sound drew near, the form advanced,
already it touched that part of the staircase to which I clung. Was it the phantom of one of
those wretches who had just met death? Had it come fresh from eternity, the taint of recent
earth yet hanging about it, to warn me of my own departure? A sudden vivid flash enabled me
to dispel all doubt; the dull, grey eye, and thin furrowed form, were not to be so mistaken;
the voice too--but why prolong the mystery? it was my old unforgotten persecutor, the Mysterious
Tailor of High Holborn. What followed I know not: overpowered by previous excitement, and the
visitation of this infernal phantom, my brain spun round--my heart ticked audibly like a clock--my
tongue glued to my mouth--I sank senseless at the cabin door.

(To be concluded in our next.)

                 *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

NORFOLK PUNCH.

AN INCANTATION.

  Twenty quarts of real Nantz,
  Eau-de-vie of southern France;
  By Arabia's chemic skill,
  Sublimed, condensed, in trickling still;
  'Tis the grape's abstracted soul,
  And the first matter of the bowl.

  Oranges, with skins of gold,
  Like Hesperian fruit of old,
  Whose golden shadow wont to quiver
  In the stream of Guadalquiver,
  Glowing, waving as they hung
  Mid fragrant blossoms ever young,
  In gardens of romantic Spain,--
  Lovely land, and rich in vain!
  Blest by nature's bounteous hand,
  Cursed with priests and Ferdinand!
  Lemons, pale as Melancholy,
  Or yellow russets, wan and holy.
  Be their number twice fifteen,
  Mystic number, well I ween,
  As all must know, who aught can tell
  Of sacred lore or glamour spell;
  Strip them of their gaudy hides,
  Saffron garb of Pagan brides,
  And like the Argonauts of Greece,
  Treasure up their Golden Fleece.

  Then, as doctors wise preserve
  Things from nature's course that swerve,
  Insects of portentous shape--worms,
  Wreathed serpents, asps, and tape-worms,
  Ill-fashion'd fishes, dead and swimming,
  And untimely fruits of women;
  All the thirty skins infuse
  In Alcohol's Phlogistic dews.
  Steep them--till the blessed Sun
  Through half his mighty round hath run--
  Hours twelve--the time exact
  Their inmost virtues to extract.

  Lest the potion should be heady,
  As Circe's cup, or gin of Deady,
  Water from the crystal spring.
  Thirty quarterns, draw and bring;
  Let it, after ebullition,
  Cool to natural condition.
  Add, of powder saccharine,
  Pounds thrice five, twice superfine;
  Mingle sweetest orange blood,
  And the lemon's acid flood;
  Mingle well, and blend the whole
  With the spicy Alcohol.

  Strain the mixture, strain it well
  Through such vessel, as in Hell
  Wicked maids, with vain endeavour,
  Toil to fill, and toil for ever.
  Nine-and-forty Danaides,
  Wedded maids, and virgin brides,
  (So blind Gentiles did believe,)
  Toil to fill a faithless sieve;
  Thirsty thing, with naught content,
  Thriftless and incontinent.

  Then, to hold the rich infusion,
  Have a barrel, not a huge one,
  But clean and pure from spot or taint,
  Pure as any female saint--
  That within its tight-hoop'd gyre
  Has kept Jamaica's liquid fire;
  Or luscious Oriental rack,
  Or the strong glory of Cognac,
  Whose perfume far outscents the Civet,
  And all but rivals rare Glenlivet.

  To make the compound soft as silk,
  Quarterns twain of tepid milk,
  Fit for babies, and such small game,
  Diffuse through all the strong amalgame.
  The fiery souls of heroes so do
  Combine the suaviter in modo,
  Bold as an eagle, meek as Dodo.

  Stir it round, and round, and round,
  Stow it safely under ground,
  Bung'd as close as an intention
  Which we are afraid to mention;
  Seven days six times let pass,
  Then pour it into hollow glass;
  Be the vials clean and dry,
  Corks as sound as chastity;--
  Years shall not impair the merit
  Of the lively, gentle spirit.

  Babylon's Sardanapalus,
  Rome's youngster Heliogabalus,
  Or that empurpled paunch, Vitellius,
  So famed for appetite rebellious--
  Ne'er, in all their vastly reign,
  Such a bowl as this could drain.
  Hark, the shade of old Apicius
  Heaves his head, and cries--Delicious!
  Mad of its flavour and its strength--he
  Pronounces it the real Nepenthe.

  'Tis the Punch, so clear and bland,
  Named of Norfolk's fertile land,
  Land of Turkeys, land of Coke,
  Who late assumed the nuptial yoke--
  Like his county beverage,
  Growing brisk and stout with age.
  Joy I wish--although a Tory--
  To a Whig, so gay and hoary--
  May he, to his latest hour,
  Flourish in his bridal bower--
  Find wedded love no Poet's fiction,
  And Punch the only contradiction.

Blackwood's Magazine.

                 *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER

DUELLING.

Two French officers resident at Kermanshaw, lately quarrelled; a challenge ensued; but a reconciliation
was effected; when the incident drew forth the following natural and affecting remark from
a native:--"How foolish it is for a man who wishes to kill his enemy, to expose his own life,
when he can accomplish his purpose with so much greater safety, by shooting at him from behind
a rock."

                 *       *       *       *       *

SPINNING VIRTUE.

A young preacher, who chose to enlarge to a country congregation on the beauty of virtue, was
surprised to be informed of an old woman, who expressed herself highly pleased with his sermon,
that her daughter was the most virtuous woman in the parish, for "that week she had spun sax
spyndles of yarn."--Sir W. Scott.

