{28b}  Maddison’s Wills, 1st series, p. 360, No. 96.

{28c}  Lansdown MS., British Museum, 54, 62, &c., quoted in Old Lincolnshire, vol. i., p. 118.
In All Saint’s Church at Theddlethorpe is a fine brass of an Angevin and his wife of the 16th
century.

{28e}  Chancery Inquisition post mortem, taken at Alford, April 28, 14 Henry VIII., A.D. 1522.

{28f}  Bridge’s History of Northamptonshire, quoted Architectural Society’s Journal, 1879,
p. 45, note.

{28g}  Patent I Ed. IV., pt. 2, m. 59, quoted Old Lincolnshire, vol. i., p. 124.

{29a}  Chancery Inquisition, 18 Henry VII., No. 34., taken at East Rasen, 26 Oct., 1502.

{29b}  Commission of Peace, 13 July, 1510, quoted Lincs. Notes & Queries, Jan. 1896, p. 15.

{29c}  Inquisition post mortem, 6 Henry VIII., 20 Jan., A.D. 1515.  Old Lincolnshire, vol.
i, p. 221.

{29d}  Circa A.D. 1536.  Architectural Society’s Journal, 1895, p. 14.

{29e}  Architectural Society’s Journal, 1894, p. 192.

{29f}  Architectural Society’s Journal, 1894, p. 215.

{29g}  Architectural Society’s Journal, 1894, p. 221.

{29h}  Architectural Society’s Journal, 1879.  Pedigree of Fitz-Williams, p. 44, &c.  A Douglas
Tyrwhitt of this family, daughter of George Tyrwhitt, Esq., in 1703 left a dole of 10/-, charged
on land at Belchford, to the poor of Horncastle.

{29i}  Patent Roll, 19 Elizabeth, pt. iv, m. 13, 2 May, 1577.

{30a}  Privately printed, from Burghley Papers, by Right Hon. Edward Stanhope of Revesby Abbey,
1892.

{30b}  Works of Thomas Becon, Parker Society, p. 480, note.

{30c}  Bishop Aldrich died at Horncastle in March, 1555, he was a distinguished graduate of
King’s College, Cambridge, Provost of Eton, a correspondent of the great Dutch scholar Erasmus;
afterwards made Archdeacon of Colchester, Canon of Windsor, Registrar of the Order of the Garter,
and consecrated to the See of Carlisle 18 July, 1537.

{31a}  Exchequer Bills and Answers, Chas. I., Lincoln, No. 36.  Among the charges brought against
Rutland Snowden (as already stated elsewhere) one was, that, besides having aided the forces
of the Parliament, he had more than one wife.  The Snowden Arms are given in “Yorks. Union
of Honour,” Lincs. Notes & Queries, vol. iv., p. 16.

{31b}  Lincs. Notes & Queries, vol. i., p. 106.

{31c}  The valuable collections of Sir Joseph Banks are still carefully preserved at Revesby
Abbey, and form in themselves almost a museum.

{32a}  Leland’s Collectanea, 66, p. 300.

{32b}  The stables of John of Gaunt’s House still exist adjoining the High Street.

{33a}  Quoted Weir’s History of Horncastle, note p. 29, ed. 1820.

{33b}  On Saturday, next the Feast of the Conversion of St. Paul, 21 Jan., 1384–5, held by
John de Feriby, Escheator of the King, in the County of Lincoln.

{34}  Most of these fragments were removed by Mr. Stanhope to Revesby Abbey.  Two of them are
preserved in the garden of Langton Rectory, near Horncastle.

{36}  The origin of this Chantry is shewn by the following documents:—In the archives of Carlisle
Cathedral is a copy, in Latin, of a Privy Seal State Paper, Domestic, vol. i, 5039, of date
5 May, 6 Henry VIII. (A.D. 1514), slightly imperfect, but running thus: “The King to all .
. . greeting.  Know that we, of our special grace . . . by these presents do grant . . . for
us, our heirs and successors . . . to the devout woman, the Lady Margaret Copuldyke, widow,
and Richard Clarke, tanner, of Horncastle, that they found a fraternity, or guild, to the honour
of St. Katharine, and for the extending of divine teaching, in the Parish Church of the blessed
Virgin of Horncastell, and mortain licence to acquire land of the annual value of 25 marks”
(£16 15s. 4d.).  Another document, a Chantry Certificate, Lincoln, No. 33 (55), Ed. VI. (1552),
states that “the Guild of St. Katharine, in Horncastell, was founded by Joan Copuldyke, widow,
and others, with the intention that one Chaplain for ever, should celebrate divine services
in the church, for the souls of the founder, and others; the profits of the land and possessions
are received by the Alderman of the Guild.”  They are described as “worth yearly £13 8s. 8d.,
with fees, wages, rents and other reprises, £7 15s. 3d.  The clear value, reprises deducted,
yearly, £5 13s. 10d.,” with “goods, chattels and ornaments worth £1 10s.”  It is to be observed
that Gervase Holles says, that at the time of his visit, she was named “Margaret,” in a window
then existing in the church.  A Patent Roll, 3 Ed. VI., pt. 5, m. 4, gives various lands and
tenements, with which this chantry was endowed, in Horncastle, Spilsby, Thornton and Roughton,
occupied by about 100 tenants; and states that all these were granted “by the King to Robert
Carr, gent., of Sleaford, and John Almond, their heirs and assigns.”  Witness, the King, at
Westminster, 15 July, 1549.  This is further confirmed by an Inquisition post mortem, 5 Eliz.,
pt. 1, No. 67. [This was ‘in return for a payment by them of £1,238 11s. 10d.’]  Among the
signatories to a declaration of the Royal supremacy (Lincoln Chapter Housebook, B. 3, 14, p.
39) are the names of Robt. James, Vicar of Horncastle Michel Whithed, Curate of Horncastle
Hugh Doddington, “Cantuarista” of Horncastle (probably Chaplain of this Chantry).  It was also
served by Robert Geffrey in 1552.  Chantry Certificates, Lincoln 33 (55).

{37a}  Harleian MS. No. 6829, p. 241.  In a window in the north aisle was the inscription “Orate
pro ái’â Thomæ Coppuldike armig., et D’næ Margaretæ, Consortis suæ, fundatoria gildæ cantar
. . . fenestram fieri fecit.  Ano D’ni 1526.”  In the eastern window of the south aisle was
the inscription “Orate pro benefactoribus artis sutorum, qui istim fenestram fieri fecerunt.
sc’æ Nemanæ cum sera et catena.  Item S’ci Crispinus et Crispinianus cum instrumentis calceariis.”
Here it is distinctly stated that a Guild of Shoemakers gave the window, and that Crispinus
and Crispinianus the patron saints of shoemakers, were there represented.  A note in the same
MS. states that Frances, wife of Gervase Holles, died at Horncastle and was buried there. 
(These passages are quoted in Weir’s History of Horncastle, pp. 30, 31, note, edition of 1820).

{38}  Mr. Dee had formerly been a Clerk in Mr. Clitherow’s office, as Solicitor.

{39a}  This was formerly the altar-piece below the east window of the chancel, before the present
reredos was placed there, and dedicated at the Harvest Festival, 22 Sept., 1870.

{39b}  It may here be stated, that the former font was quite as good as the present one, octagonal
in form, and of perpendicular design, in harmony with older portions of the church.  It was,
however, discarded at the restoration, and, for some time, hidden away among rubbish, but eventually
presented to the restored church of the neighbouring parish of Belchford.  The bowl of the
present font is too small to answer the requirements of the Rubric, and is not in keeping with
the architecture of the church.

{39c}  A Lectern, consisting of a large eagle, of cast iron, bronzed, on the model of one in
St. Margaret’s Church, Lynn, was presented by the late Prebendary Samuel Lodge, Rector of Scrivelsby.
This is still preserved in the south chancel chapel.

{40a}  Walker in his Sufferings of the Clergy (1714) gives an account of Thomas Gibson, which
we here abridge. 1714).

{40b}  There is an error in the date, which should be Oct. 11.  Further, the term “arch rebel”
is inappropriate, as Cromwell was, at that time, only a Colonel, far from having attained his
later distinction; the term “skirmish” is also inadequate, as the Winceby battle was a decisive
engagement, with important consequences.

{41a}  The origin of these scythes has of late years been a vexata questio.  It has been suggested
that they are not, as generally supposed, relics of the Parliamentary War, but of the earlier
so-called “Pilgrimage of Grace,” or “Lincolnshire Rising,” a movement intended as a protest
against certain abuses attending the Reformation, in the reign of Henry VIII.  The evidence,
however, gathered from various directions, would seem to be strongly corroborative of the old
and more general opinion.  History shows that, for many years, about the period of the Commonwealth,
scythes were among the commonest, rude weapons of war.  The artist Edgar Bundy, in his painting
“The morning of Edgemoor,” recently (1905) purchased for the National Gallery by the Chantry
Trustees, represents a soldier armed with a straight wooden-handled scythe.  The battle of
Edgemoor was fought Oct. 23, 1642, one year before that of Winceby.  We have also contemporary
testimony in the Memoirs of the Verney Family (vol. i, pp. 109–118 and 315), members of which
took part in the civil war of that period, that King Charles’ forces consisted largely of untrained
peasants, “ill-fed and clothed . . . having neither colours, nor halberts . . . many only rude
pikes . . . few a musket.”  To such the scythes used in their farm labour would be handy weapons
in emergency.  As a parallel to these cases Sir Walter Scott, in his preface to Rob Roy, states
that “many of the followers of MacGregor, at the battle of Prestonpans (Sep. 21, 1745), were
armed with scythe blades, set straight upon their handles, for want of guns and swords.”  It
is not without interest to note, that about 60 years ago there were exhumed, on the farm above
Langton Hill, in Horncastle, the remains of 6 bodies, lying buried in a row, with scythe blades
beside them.  It is known that skirmishes between Royalists and Roundheads took place in this
locality, and it can hardly be doubted that these also were relics of the Winceby fight.  The
then tenant of the farm, Mr. Dobson (as the writer has been informed by his granddaughter,
Mrs. H. Boulton of St. Mary’s Square, Horncastle), carted these remains to the town and they
were re-buried in the south side of St. Mary’s Churchyard, while the scythes were added to
those already in the church.  An incident, which further confirms their connection with the
Winceby fight, is that the present writer has in his possession a pair of spurs, which were
found on the field of Winceby, remarkable for the long spikes of their rowels; and he himself
once found the rowel of a spur, with similarly long spikes, within a few yards of where the
bodies were discovered; and in the year 1905 he also examined several bones, pronounced by
a doctor to be human, which were found near the same spot, while workmen were digging for the
foundations of a house since erected there.  On the other hand, as against the theory of the
scythes having been used in the earlier “Pilgrimage of Grace,” we are distinctly told that
the mobs concerned in that movement were deprived of all weapons before they could use them.
In the Lincoln Chapter House books (c. i, 20, f 193) is a letter from Richard Cromwell, dated
Oct. 29, 1586, which says that he, and Admiral Sir John Russell, went to Louth, where “all
the harness and weapons were seized, and conveyed to Lincoln,” and that for the same purpose
Mr. Bryan had been sent to Horncastle, and Mr. Brown to Market Rasen.  On the whole, therefore,
the preponderance of evidence is strongly in favour of the connection of all these scythes
with the neighbouring Battle of Winceby—the original tradition.

{41b}  Weir, in his History of Horncastle gives the quarterings of these shields as follows:—

(1)  Sable, 2 lions passant in pale, ducally crowned, or, Dymoke impaling Barry of 6 ermines,
and gules, 3 crescents, sable, Waterton; a crescent for difference.

(2)  Dymoke impaling Vairè, on a fess, gules frettè, or.  Marmyon, in chief, ermine, 5 fusils
in fess, Hebden, a crescent for difference.

(3)  Argent, a sword erect, azure, hilt and pomel gules.

(4)  Dymoke impaling quarterly, gules and argent, a cross engrailed. Countercharged, Haydon,
a crescent for difference.

{42a}  The only other theft from the church of which we have record, was when the vestry was
broken into in December, 1812, and the money collected for parish purposes was stolen.  A reward
of £50 was offered for information of the thief, but without result.  (MS. notes by Mr. T.
Overton in possession of Mr. John Overton, of Horncastle.)

{42b}  Details of these are given by Holles as follows:—

                                            In fenestra Insulæ Borealis.

    “Orate pro a’ia Thomæ Coppuldike Armig. & D’næ Margaretæ Consortis suæ fundatoris Gildæ Cantar . . . Fenestram
    fieri fecit Ano Dni 1526.”

                                      In superiori fenestra Borealis Cancelli.

    ‘Gules a lion passant guardant.  Arg. . . .

    Sable, 3 flowres de lize betw: 6 crosses botony fitchy Arg. . . .

    Gules, a cross sarcelly Arg.” . . .                                                                           Bec.

                                      In fenestra Orientali Insulæ Australis.

    “Orate pro benefactoribus artis sutorum, qui istam fenestram fieri fecerunt stæ Ninianæ cum cera et catena.  Item
    sti Crispinus et Crispianus cum instrumentis calceariis.”  (N.B.  The feminine is an error of Holles, as St.
    Ninian was a man.  Collier’s History, vol. i. p. 100).

                                            Fenestra Borealis superior.

Empaled         Sa, 2 lions passant arg. crowned or.                                      
Dymoke

                Or, a lion rampant double queue sa.                                                             Welles

Empaled