He was for many years my closest friend. We first met in 1873, when he was in his twenty-third
year and I in my twenty-ninth, at the place and in the manner mentioned at page 54 of this
volume. It was my good fortune then to be of use to him, partly by such technical hints as
even the most brilliant beginner may take from an older hand, partly by recommending him to
editors--first, if I remember right, to Mr. Hamerton and Mr. Richmond Seeley, of the Portfolio,
then in succession to Mr. George Grove (Macmillan's Magazine), Mr. Leslie Stephen (Cornhill),
and Dr. Appleton (the Academy); and somewhat, lastly, by helping to raise him in the estimation
of parents who loved but for the moment failed to understand him. It belonged to the richness
of his nature to repay in all things much for little, [Greek: hekatomboi enneaboiôn], and from
these early relations sprang the affection and confidence, to me inestimable, of which the
following correspondence bears evidence.

One day in the autumn of 1888, in the island of Tahiti, during an illness which he supposed
might be his last, Stevenson put into the hands of his stepson, Mr. Lloyd Osbourne, a sealed
paper with a request that it might be opened after his death. He recovered, and had strength
enough to enjoy six years more of active life and work in the Pacific Islands. When the end
came, the paper was opened and found to contain, among other things, the expression of his
wish that I should prepare for publication "a selection of his letters and a sketch of his
life." I had already, in 1892, when he was anxious--needlessly, as it turned out--as to the
provision he might be able to leave for his family, received from him a suggestion that "some
kind of a book" might be made out of the monthly journal-letters which he had been in the habit
of writing me from Samoa: letters begun at first with no thought of publication and simply
in order to maintain our intimacy, so far as might be, undiminished by separation. This part
of his wishes I was able to carry out promptly, and the result appeared under the title Vailima
Letters in the autumn following his death (1895). Lack of leisure delayed the execution of
the remaining part. For one thing, the body of correspondence which came in from various quarters
turned out much larger than had been anticipated. He did not love writing letters, and will
be found somewhere in the following pages referring to himself as one "essentially and originally
incapable of the art epistolary." That he was a bad correspondent had come to be an accepted
view among his friends; but in truth it was only during one period of his life that he at all
deserved such a reproach.[1] At other times, as became apparent after his death, he had shown
a degree of industry and spirit in letter-writing extraordinary considering his health and
his occupations. It was indeed he and not his friends, as will abundantly appear in the course
of these volumes, who oftenest had cause to complain of answers neglected or delayed. His letters,
it is true, were often the most informal in the world, and he generally neglected to date them,
a habit which is the despair of editors: but after his own whim and fashion he wrote a vast
number, so that the work of sifting, copying, and arranging was long and laborious. It was
not until the autumn of 1899 that the Letters to his Family and Friends were ready for publication,
and in the meantime the task of writing the Life had been taken over by his cousin and my friend,
Mr. Graham Balfour, who completed it two years later.

"In considering the scale and plan on which my friend's instruction should be carried out"
(I quote, with the change of a word or two, from my Introduction of 1899), "it seemed necessary
to take into account, not his own always modest opinion of himself, but the place which he
seemed likely to take ultimately in the world's regard. The four or five years following the
death of a writer much applauded in his lifetime are generally the years when the decline of
his reputation begins, if it is going to suffer decline at all. At present, certainly, Stevenson's
name seems in no danger of going down. On the stream of daily literary reference and allusion
it floats more actively than ever. In another sense its vitality is confirmed by the material
test of continued sales and of the market. Since we have lost him other writers, whose beginnings
he watched with sympathetic interest, have come to fill a greater immediate place in public
attention; but none has exercised Stevenson's peculiar and personal power to charm, to attach,
and to inspirit. By his study of perfection in form and style--qualities for which his countrymen
in general have been apt to care little--he might seem destined to give pleasure chiefly to
the fastidious and the artistically minded. But as to its matter, the main appeal of his work
is not to any mental tastes and fashions of the few; it is rather to universal, hereditary
instincts, to the primitive sources of imaginative excitement and entertainment in the race.

"The voice of the advocatus diaboli has been heard against him, as it is right and proper that
it should be heard against any man before his reputation can be held fully established. One
such advocate in this country has thought to dispose of him by the charge of 'externality.'
But the reader who remembers things like the sea-frenzy of Gordon Darnaway, or the dialogue
of Markheim with his other self in the house of murder, or the re-baptism of the spirit of
Seraphina in the forest dews, or the failure of Herrick to find in the waters of the island
lagoon a last release from dishonour, or the death of Goguelat, or the appeal of Kirstie Elliot
in the midnight chamber--such a reader can only smile at a criticism like this and put it by.
These and a score of other passages breathe the essential poetry and significance of things
as they reveal themselves to true masters only: they are instinct at once with the morality
and the romance which lie deep together at the soul of nature and experience. Not in vain had
Stevenson read the lesson of the Lantern-Bearers, and hearkened to the music of the pipes of
Pan. He was feeling his way all his life towards a fuller mastery of his means, preferring
always to leave unexpressed what he felt that he could not express adequately; and in much
of his work was content merely to amuse himself and others. But even when he is playing most
fancifully with his art and his readers, as in the shudders, tempered with laughter, of the
Suicide Club, or the airy sentimental comedy of Providence and the Guitar, or the schoolboy
historical inventions of Dickon Crookback and the old sailor Arblaster, a writer of his quality
cannot help striking notes from the heart of life and the inwardness of things deeper than
will ever be struck, or even apprehended, by another who labours, with never a smile either
of his own or of his reader's, upon the most solemn enterprises of realistic fiction, but is
born without the magician's touch and insight.

"Another advocate on the same side, in the United States, has made much of the supposed dependence
of this author on his models, and classed him among writers whose inspiration is imitative
and second-hand. But this is to be quite misled by the well-known passage of Stevenson's own,
in which he speaks of himself as having in his prentice years played the 'sedulous ape' to
many writers of different styles and periods. In doing this he was not seeking inspiration,
but simply practising the use of the tools which were to help him to express his own inspirations.
Truly he was always much of a reader: but it was life, not books, that always in the first
degree allured and taught him.

  'He loved of life the myriad sides,
   Pain, prayer, or pleasure, act or sleep,
   As wallowing narwhals love the deep'--

so with just self-knowledge he wrote of himself; and the books which he most cared for and
lived with were those of which the writers seemed--to quote again a phrase of his own--to have
been 'eavesdropping at the door of his heart': those which told of experiences or cravings
after experience, pains, pleasures, or conflicts of the spirit, which in the eagerness of youthful
living and thinking had already been his own. No man, in fact, was ever less inclined to take
anything at second-hand. The root of all originality was in him, in the shape of an extreme
natural vividness of perception, imagination, and feeling. An instinctive and inbred unwillingness
to accept the accepted and conform to the conventional was of the essence of his character,
whether in life or art, and was a source to him both of strength and weakness. He would not
follow a general rule--least of all if it was a prudential rule--of conduct unless he was clear
that it was right according to his private conscience; nor would he join, in youth, in the
ordinary social amusements of his class when he had once found out that they did not amuse
him; nor wear their clothes if he could not feel at ease and be himself in them; nor use, whether
in speech or writing, any trite or inanimate form of words that did not faithfully and livingly
express his thought. A readier acceptance alike of current usages and current phrases might
have been better for him, but was simply not in his nature. No reader of this book will close
it, I am sure, without feeling that he has been throughout in the company of a spirit various
indeed and many-mooded, but profoundly sincere and real. Ways that in another might easily
have been mere signs of affectation were in him the true expression of a nature ten times more
spontaneously itself and individually alive than that of others. Self-consciousness, in many
characters that possess it, deflects and falsifies conduct; and so does the dramatic instinct.
Stevenson was self-conscious in a high degree, but only as a part of his general activity of
mind; only in so far as he could not help being an extremely intelligent spectator of his own
doings and feelings: these themselves came from springs of character and impulse much too deep
and strong to be diverted. He loved also, with a child's or actor's gusto, to play a part and
make a drama out of life: but the part was always for the moment his very own: he had it not
in him to pose for anything but what he truly was.

"When a man so constituted had once mastered his craft of letters, he might take up whatever
instrument he pleased with the instinctive and just confidence that he would play upon it to
a tune and with a manner of his own. This is indeed the true mark and test of his originality.
He has no need to be, or to seem, especially original in the form and mode of literature which
he attempts. By his choice of these he may at any time give himself and his reader the pleasure
of recalling, like a familiar air, some strain of literary association; but in so doing he
only adds a secondary charm to his work; the vision, the temperament, the mode of conceiving
and handling, are in every case personal to himself. He may try his hand in youth at a Sentimental
Journey, but R. L. S. cannot choose but be at the opposite pole of human character and feeling
from Laurence Sterne. In tales of mystery, allegorical or other, he may bear in mind the precedent
of Edgar Poe, and yet there is nothing in style and temper much wider apart than Markheim and
Jekyll and Hyde are from the Murders in the Rue Morgue or William Wilson. He may set out to
tell a pirate story for boys 'exactly in the ancient way,' and it will come from him not in
the ancient way at all, but re-minted; marked with a sharpness and saliency in the characters,
a private stamp of buccaneering ferocity combined with smiling humour, an energy of vision
and happy vividness of presentment, which are shiningly his own. Another time, he may desert
the paths of Kingston and Ballantyne for those of Sir Walter Scott; but literature presents
few stronger contrasts than between any scene of Waverley or Redgauntlet and any scene of the
Master of Ballantrae or Catriona, whether in their strength or weakness: and it is the most
loyal lovers of the older master who take the greatest pleasure in reading the work of the
younger, so much less opulently gifted as is probable--though we must remember that Stevenson
died at the age when Scott wrote Waverley--so infinitely more careful of his gift. Stevenson
may even blow upon the pipe of Burns and yet his tune will be no echo, but one which utters
the heart and mind of a Scots maker who has his own outlook on life, his own special and profitable
vein of smiling or satirical contemplation.

"Not by reason, then, of 'externality,' for sure, nor yet of imitativeness, will this writer
lose his hold on the attention and regard of his countrymen. The debate, before his place in
literature is settled, must rather turn on other points: as whether the genial essayist and
egoist or the romantic inventor and narrator was the stronger in him--whether the Montaigne
and Pepys elements prevailed in his literary composition or the Scott and Dumas elements--a
question indeed which among those who care for him most has always been at issue. Or again,
what degree of true inspiring and illuminating power belongs to the gospel, or gospels, airily
encouraging or gravely didactic, which are set forth in the essays with so captivating a grace?
Or whether in romance and tale he had a power of inventing and constructing a whole fable comparable
to his admitted power of conceiving and presenting single scenes and situations in a manner
which stamps them indelibly on the reader's mind? And whether his figures are sustained continuously
by the true spontaneous breath of creation, or are but transitorily animated at happy moments
by flashes of spiritual and dramatic insight, aided by the conscious devices of his singularly
adroit and spirited art? These are questions which no criticism but that of time can solve.
To contend, as some do, that strong creative impulse and so keen an artistic self-consciousness
as Stevenson's was cannot exist together, is quite idle. The truth, of course, is that the
deep-seated energies of imaginative creation are found sometimes in combination, and sometimes
not in combination, with an artistic intelligence thus keenly conscious of its own purpose
and watchful of its own working.

"Once more, it may be questioned whether, among the many varieties of work which Stevenson
has left, all distinguished by a grace and precision of workmanship which are the rarest qualities
in English art, there are any which can be pointed to as absolute masterpieces, such as the
future cannot be expected to let die. Let the future decide. What is certain is that posterity
must either be very well or very ill occupied if it can consent to give up so much sound entertainment,
and better than entertainment, as this writer afforded his contemporaries. In the meantime,
among judicious readers on both sides of the Atlantic, Stevenson stands, I think it may safely
be said, as a true master of English prose; scarcely surpassed for the union of lenity and
lucidity with suggestive pregnancy and poetic animation; for harmony of cadence and the well-knit
structure of sentences; and for the art of imparting to words the vital quality of things,
and making them convey the precise--sometimes, let it be granted, the too curiously precise--expression
of the very shade and colour of the thought, feeling, or vision in his mind. He stands, moreover,
as the writer who, in the last quarter of the nineteenth century, has handled with the most
of freshness and inspiriting power the widest range of established literary forms--the moral,
critical, and personal essay, travels sentimental and other, romances and short tales both
historical and modern, parables and tales of mystery, boys' stories of adventure, memoirs--nor
let lyrical and meditative verse both English and Scottish, and especially nursery verse, a
new vein for genius to work in, be forgotten. To some of these forms Stevenson gave quite new
life; through all alike he expressed vividly an extremely personal way of seeing and being,
a sense of nature and romance, of the aspects of human existence and problems of human conduct,
which was essentially his own. And in so doing he contrived to make friends and even lovers
of his readers. Those whom he attracts at all (and there is no writer who attracts every one)
are drawn to him over and over again, finding familiarity not lessen but increase the charm
of his work, and desiring ever closer intimacy with the spirit and personality which they divine
behind it.

"As to the fitting scale, then, on which to treat the memory of a man who fills five years
after his death such a place as this in the general regard, and who has desired that a selection
from his letters shall be made public, the word 'selection' has evidently to be given a pretty
liberal interpretation. Readers, it must be supposed, will scarce be content without the opportunity
of a fairly ample intercourse with such a man as he was accustomed to reveal himself in writing
to his familiars. In choosing from among the material before me" (I still quote from the Introduction
of 1899), "I have used the best discretion that I could. Stevenson's feelings and relations
throughout life were in almost all directions so warm and kindly, that very little had to be
suppressed from fear of giving pain.[2] On the other hand, he drew people towards him with
so much confidence and affection, and met their openness with so much of his own, that an editor
could not but feel the frequent risk of inviting readers to trespass too far on purely private
affairs and feelings, including those of the living. This was a point upon which in his lifetime
he felt strongly. That excellent critic, Mr. Walter Raleigh, has noticed, as one of the merits
of Stevenson's personal essays and accounts of travel, that few men have written more or more
attractively of themselves without ever taking the public unduly into familiarity or overstepping
proper bounds of reticence. Public prying into private lives, the propagation of gossip by
the press, and printing of private letters during the writer's lifetime, were things he hated.
Once, indeed, he very superfluously gave himself a dangerous cold, by dancing before a bonfire
in his garden at the news of a 'society' editor having been committed to prison; and the only
approach to a difference he ever had with one of his lifelong friends arose from the publication,
without permission, of one of his letters written during his first Pacific voyage.

"How far, then, must I regard his instructions about publication as authorising me to go after
his death beyond the limits which he had been so careful in observing and desiring others to
observe in life? How much may now fairly become public of that which had been held sacred and
hitherto private among his friends? To cut out all that is strictly personal and intimate were
to leave his story untold and half the charm of his character unrevealed: to put in too much
were to break all bonds of that privacy which he so carefully regarded while he lived. I know
not if I have at all been able to hit the mean, and to succeed in making these letters, as
it has been my object to make them, present, without offence or intrusion, a just, a living,
and proportionate picture of the man as far as they will yield it. There is one respect in
which his own practice and principle has had to be in some degree violated, if the work was
to be done at all. Except in the single case of the essay Ordered South, he would never in
writing for the public adopt the invalid point of view, or invite any attention to his infirmities.
The tale of his life, in the years when he was most of a correspondent, was in truth a tale
of daily and nightly battle against weakness and physical distress and danger. To those who
loved him, the incidents of this battle were communicated, sometimes gravely, sometimes laughingly.
I have greatly cut down such bulletins, but could not possibly omit them altogether."

In 1911, twelve years after the above words were written, the estimate expressed in them of
Stevenson's qualities as a writer, and of the place he seemed likely to maintain in the affections
of English readers all the world over, had been amply confirmed by the lapse of time. The sale
of his works kept increasing rather than diminishing. Editions kept multiplying. A new generation
of readers had found life and letters, nature and human nature, touched by him at so many points
with so vivifying and illuminating a charm that it had become scarcely possible to take up
any newspaper or magazine and not find some reference to his work and name. Both series of
letters--even one mainly concerned, as the Vailima Letters are, with matters of interest both
remote and transitory--had been read in edition after edition: and readers had been and were
continually asking for more. The time was thought to have come for a new and definitive edition,
in which the two series of letters already published should be thrown into one, and as much
new material added as could be found suitable. The task of carrying out this scheme fell again
upon me. The new edition constituted in effect a nearly complete epistolary autobiography.
It contained not less than a hundred and fifty of Stevenson's letters hitherto unpublished.
They dated from all periods of his life, those written in the brilliant and troubled days of
his youth predominating, and giving a picture, perhaps unique in its kind, of a character and
talent in the making. The present edition is a reprint of the edition of 1911, with a few errors
of transcription and one or two of date corrected, and with a very few new letters added.

Much, of course, remains and ought to remain unprinted. Some of the outpourings of the early
time are too sacred and intimate for publicity. Many of the letters of his maturer years are
dry business letters of no general interest: many others are mere scraps tossed in jest to
his familiars and full of catchwords and code-words current in their talk but meaningless to
outsiders. Above all, many have to be omitted because they deal with the intimate affairs of
private persons. Stevenson has been sometimes called an egoist, as though he had been one in
the practical sense as well as in the sense of taking a lively interest in his own moods and
doings. Nothing can be more untrue. The letters printed in these volumes are indeed for the
most part about himself: but it was of himself that his correspondents of all things most cared
to hear. If the letters concerned with the private affairs of other people could be printed,
as of course they cannot, the balance would come more than even. We should see him throwing
himself with sympathetic ardour and without thought of self into the cares and interests of
his correspondents, and should learn to recognise him as having been truly the helper in many
a relation where he might naturally have been taken for the person helped.

As to the form in which the Letters are now presented, they fill three volumes instead of the
four of the 1911 edition, the division into fourteen sections according to date being retained.
As to the text, it is faithful to the original except in so far as I have freely used the editorial
privilege of omission when I thought it desirable, and as I have not felt myself bound to reproduce
slips and oddities, however characteristic, of spelling. In formal matters like the use of
quote-marks, italics, and so forth, I have adopted a more uniform practice than his, which
was very casual and variable.

To some readers, perhaps--(from this point I again resume my Introduction of 1899, but with
more correction and abridgment)--to some, perhaps, the very lack of art as a correspondent
to which Stevenson, as above quoted, pleads guilty may give the reading an added charm and
flavour. What he could do as an artist in letters we know. I remember Sir John Millais, a shrewd
and very independent judge of books, calling across to me at a dinner-table, "You know Stevenson,
don't you?" and then going on, "Well, I wish you would tell him from me, if he cares to know,
that to my mind he is the very first of living artists. I don't mean writers merely, but painters
and all of us. Nobody living can see with such an eye as that fellow, and nobody is such a
master of his tools." But in his letters, excepting a few written in youth and having more
or less the character of exercises, and a few in after years which were intended for the public
eye, Stevenson the deliberate artist is scarcely forthcoming at all. He does not care a fig
for order or logical sequence or congruity, or for striking a key of expression and keeping
it, but becomes simply the most spontaneous and unstudied of human beings. He has at his command
the whole vocabularies of the English and Scottish languages, classical and slang, with good
stores of the French, and tosses and tumbles them about irresponsibly to convey the impression
or affection, the mood or freak of the moment; pouring himself out in all manner of rhapsodical
confessions and speculations, grave or gay, notes of observation and criticism, snatches of
remembrance and autobiography, moralisings on matters uppermost for the hour in his mind, comments
on his own work or other people's, or mere idle fun and foolery.

By this medley of moods and manners, Stevenson's letters at their best come nearer than anything
else to the full-blooded charm and variety of his conversation. Nearer, yet not quite near;
for it was in company only that his genial spirit rose to his very best. Few men probably have
had in them such a richness and variety of human nature; and few can ever have been better
gifted than he was to express the play of being that was in him by means of the apt, expressive
word and the animated look and gesture. Divers et ondoyant, in the words of Montaigne, beyond
other men, he seemed to contain within himself a whole troop of singularly assorted characters.
Though prose was his chosen medium of expression, he was by temperament a born poet, to whom
the world was full of enchantment and of latent romance, only waiting to take shape and substance
in the forms of art. It was his birthright--

                    "to hear
  The great bell beating far and near--
  The odd, unknown, enchanted gong
  That on the road hales men along,
  That from the mountain calls afar,
  That lures the vessel from a star,
  And with a still, aerial sound
  Makes all the earth enchanted ground."

He had not only the poet's mind but the poet's senses: in youth ginger was only too hot in
his mouth, and the chimes at midnight only too favourite a music. At the same time he was not
less a born preacher and moralist and son of the Covenanters after his fashion. He had about
him, as has been said, little spirit of social or other conformity; but an active and searching
private conscience kept him for ever calling in question both the grounds of his own conduct
and the validity of the accepted codes and compromises of society. He must try to work out
a scheme of morality suitable to his own case and temperament, which found the prohibitory
law of Moses chill and uninspiring, but in the Sermon on the Mount a strong incentive to all
those impulses of pity and charity to which his heart was prone. In early days his sense of
social injustice and the inequalities of human opportunity made him inwardly much of a rebel,
who would have embraced and acted on theories of socialism or communism, could he have found
any that did not seem to him at variance with ineradicable instincts of human nature. All his
life the artist and the moralist in him alike were in rebellion against the bourgeois spirit,--against
timid, negative, and shuffling substitutes for active and courageous well-doing,--and declined
to worship at the shrine of what he called the bestial goddesses Comfort and Respectability.
The moralist in him helped the artist by backing with the force of a highly sensitive conscience
his instinctive love of perfection in his work. The artist qualified the moralist by discountenancing
any preference for the harsh, the sour, or the self-mortifying forms of virtue, and encouraging
the love for all tender or heroic, glowing, generous, and cheerful forms.

Above all things, perhaps, Stevenson was by instinct an adventurer and practical experimentalist
in life. Many poets are content to dream, and many, perhaps most, moralists to preach: Stevenson
must ever be doing and undergoing. He was no sentimentalist, to pay himself with fine feelings
whether for mean action or slack inaction. He had an insatiable zest for all experiences, not
the pleasurable only, but including the more harsh and biting--those that bring home to a man
the pinch and sting of existence as it is realised by the disinherited of the world, and excluding
only what he thought the prim, the conventional, the dead-alive, and the cut-and-dry. On occasion
the experimentalist and man of adventure in him would enter into special partnership with the
moralist and man of conscience: he was prone to plunge into difficult social passes and ethical
dilemmas, which he might sometimes more wisely have avoided, for the sake of trying to behave
in them to the utmost according to his own personal sense of the obligations of honour, duty,
and kindness. In yet another part of his being he cherished, as his great countryman Scott
had done before him, an intense underlying longing for the life of action, danger and command.
"Action, Colvin, action," I remember his crying eagerly to me with his hand on my arm as we
lay basking for his health's sake in a boat off the scented shores of the Cap Martin. Another
time--this was on his way to a winter cure at Davos--some friend had given him General Hamley's
Operations of War:--"in which," he writes to his father, "I am drowned a thousand fathoms deep,
and O that I had been a soldier is still my cry." Fortunately, with all these ardent and divers
instincts, there were present two invaluable gifts besides: that of humour, which for all his
stress of being and vivid consciousness of self saved him from ever seeing himself for long
together out of a just proportion, and kept wholesome laughter always ready at his lips; and
that of a most tender and loyal heart, which through all his experiments and agitations made
the law of kindness the one ruling law of his life. In the end, lack of health determined his
career, giving the chief part in his life to the artist and man of imagination, and keeping
the man of action a prisoner in the sickroom until, by a singular turn of destiny, he was able
to wring a real prolonged and romantically successful adventure out of that voyage to the Pacific
which had been, in its origin, the last despairing resource of the invalid.

Again, it was characteristic of this multiple personality that he never seemed to be cramped
like the rest of us, at any given time of life, within the limits of his proper age, but to
be child, boy, young man, and old man all at once. There was never a time in his life when
Stevenson had to say with St. Augustine, "Behold! my childhood is dead, but I am alive." The
child lived on always in him, not in memory only, but in real survival, with all its freshness
of perception unimpaired, and none of its play instincts in the least degree extinguished or
made ashamed. As for the perennial boy in Stevenson, that is too apparent to need remark. It
was as a boy for boys that he wrote the best known of his books, Treasure Island, and with
all boys that he met, provided they were really boys and not prigs nor puppies, he was instantly
and delightedly at home. At the same time, even when I first knew him, he showed already surprising
occasional traits and glimpses of old sagacity, of premature life-wisdom and experience.

Once more, it is said that in every poet there must be something of the woman. If to be quick
in sympathy and feeling, ardent in attachment, and full of pity for the weak and suffering,
is to be womanly, Stevenson was certainly all those; he was even like a woman in being [Greek:
artidakrus], easily moved to tears at the touch of pity or affection, or even at any specially
poignant impression of art or beauty. But yet, if any one word were to be chosen for the predominant
quality of his character and example, I suppose that word would be manly. In his gentle and
complying nature there were strains of iron tenacity and will: occasionally even, let it be
admitted, of perversity and Scottish "thrawnness." He had both kinds of physical courage--the
active, delighting in danger, and the passive, unshaken in endurance. In the moral courage
of facing situations and consequences, of readiness to pay for faults committed, of outspokenness,
admitting no ambiguous relations and clearing away the clouds from human intercourse, I have
not known his equal. The great Sir Walter himself, as this book will prove, was not more manfully
free from artistic jealousy or irritability under criticism, or more unfeignedly inclined to
exaggerate the qualities of other people's work and to underrate those of his own. Of the humorous
and engaging parts of vanity and egoism, which led him to make infinite talk and fun about
himself, and use his own experiences as a key for unlocking the confidences of others, Stevenson
had plenty; but of the morose and fretful parts never a shade. "A little Irish girl," he wrote
once during a painful crisis of his life, "is now reading my book aloud to her sister at my
elbow; they chuckle, and I feel flattered.--Yours, R. L. S. P.S.--Now they yawn, and I am indifferent.
Such a wisely conceived thing is vanity." If only vanity so conceived were commoner! And whatever
might be the abstract and philosophical value of that somewhat grimly stoical conception of
the universe, of conduct and duty, at which in mature years he had arrived, want of manliness
is certainly not its fault. Take the kind of maxims which he was accustomed to forge for his
own guidance:--"Acts may be forgiven; not even God can forgive the hanger-back." "Choose the
best, if you can; or choose the worst; that which hangs in the wind dangles from a gibbet."
"'Shall I?' said Feeble-mind; and the echo said, 'Fie!'" "'Do I love?' said Loveless; and the
echo laughed." "A fault known is a fault cured to the strong; but to the weak it is a fetter
riveted." "The mean man doubts, the great-hearted is deceived." "Great-heart was deceived.
'Very well,' said Great-heart." "'I have not forgotten my umbrella,' said the careful man;
but the lightning struck him." "Shame had a fine bed, but where was slumber? Once he was in
jail he slept." With this moralist maxims meant actions; and where shall we easily find a much
manlier spirit of wisdom than this?

There was yet another and very different side to Stevenson which struck others more than it
struck myself, namely, that of the freakish or elvish, irresponsible madcap or jester which
sometimes appeared in him. It is true that his demoniac quickness of wit and intelligence suggested
occasionally a "spirit of air and fire" rather than one of earth; that he was abundantly given
to all kinds of quirk and laughter; and that there was no jest (saving the unkind) he would
not make and relish. The late Mr. J. A. Symonds always called him Sprite; qualifying the name,
however, by the epithets "most fantastic, but most human." To me the essential humanity was
always the thing most apparent. In a fire well nourished of seasoned ship-timber, the flames
glance fantastically and of many colours, but the glow at heart is ever deep and strong; it
was at such a glow that the friends of Stevenson were accustomed to warm their hands, while
they admired and were entertained by the shifting lights.

It was only in company, as I have said, that all these many lights and colours could be seen
in full play. He would begin no matter how--perhaps with a jest at some absurd adventure of
his own, perhaps with the recitation, in his vibrating voice and full Scotch accent, of some
snatch of poetry that was haunting him, perhaps with a rhapsody of analytic delight over some
minute accident of beauty or expressiveness that had struck him in man, woman, child, or external
nature. And forthwith the floodgates would be opened, and the talk would stream on in endless,
never importunate, flood and variety. A hundred fictitious characters would be invented and
launched on their imaginary careers; a hundred ingenious problems of conduct and cases of honour
would be set and solved; romantic voyages would be planned and followed out in vision, with
a thousand incidents; the possibilities of life and art would be illuminated with search-lights
of bewildering range and penetration, sober argument and high poetic eloquence alternating
with coruscations of insanely apposite slang--the earthiest jape anon shooting up into the
empyrean and changing into the most ethereal fantasy--the stalest and most vulgarised forms
of speech gaining brilliancy and illuminating power from some hitherto undreamt-of application--and
all the while an atmosphere of goodwill diffusing itself from the speaker, a glow of eager
benignity and affectionate laughter emanating from his presence, till every one about him seemed
to catch something of his own gift and inspiration. This sympathetic power of inspiring others
was the special and distinguishing note of Stevenson's conversation. He would keep a houseful
or a single companion entertained all day, and day after day and half the nights, yet never
seemed to monopolise the talk or absorb it; rather he helped every one about him to discover
and to exercise unexpected powers of their own.

Imagine all this helped by the most speaking of presences: a steady, penetrating fire in the
brown, wide-set eyes, a compelling power and richness in the smile; courteous, waving gestures
of the arms and long, nervous hands, a lit cigarette generally held between the fingers; continual
rapid shiftings and pacings to and fro as he conversed: rapid, but not flurried nor awkward,
for there was a grace in his attenuated but well-carried figure, and his movements were light,
deft, and full of spring. There was something for strangers, and even for friends, to get over
in the queer garments which in youth it was his whim to wear--the badge, as they always seemed
to me, partly of a genuine carelessness, certainly of a genuine lack of cash (the little he
had was always absolutely at the disposal of his friends), partly of a deliberate detachment
from any particular social class or caste, partly of his love of pickles and adventures, which
he thought befel a man thus attired more readily than another. But this slender, slovenly,
nondescript apparition, long-visaged and long-haired, had only to speak in order to be recognised
in the first minute for a witty and charming gentleman, and within the first five for a master
spirit and man of genius. There were, indeed, certain stolidly conventional and superciliously
official kinds of persons, both at home and abroad, who were incapable of looking beyond the
clothes, and eyed him always with frozen suspicion. This attitude used sometimes in youth to
drive him into fits of flaming anger, which put him helplessly at a disadvantage unless, or
until, he could call the sense of humour to his help. Apart from these his human charm was
the same for all kinds of people, without distinction of class or caste; for worldly-wise old
great ladies, whom he reminded of famous poets in their youth; for his brother artists and
men of letters, perhaps, above all; for the ordinary clubman; for his physicians, who could
never do enough for him; for domestic servants, who adored him; for the English policeman even,
on whom he often tried, quite in vain, to pass himself as one of the criminal classes; for
the shepherd, the street arab, or the tramp, the common seaman, the beach-comber, or the Polynesian
high-chief. Even in the imposed silence and restraint of extreme sickness the power and attraction
of the man made themselves felt, and there seemed to be more vitality and fire of the spirit
in him as he lay exhausted and speechless in bed than in an ordinary roomful of people in health.

But I have strayed from my purpose, which was only to indicate that in the best of these letters
of Stevenson's you have some echo, far away indeed, but yet the nearest, of his talk--talk
which could not possibly be taken down, and of which nothing remains save in the memory of
his friends an impression magical and never to be effaced.

     SIDNEY COLVIN.

FOOTNOTES:

  [1] From 1876 to 1879--see p. 185.

  [2] The point was one on which Stevenson himself felt strongly. In a
    letter of instructions to his wife found among his posthumous papers
    he writes: "It is never worth while to inflict pain upon a snail for
    any literary purpose; and where events may appear to be favourable
    to me and contrary to others, I would rather be misunderstood than
    cause a pang to any one whom I have known, far less whom I have
    loved." Whether an editor or biographer would be justified in
    carrying out this principle to the full may perhaps be doubted.

         THE LETTERS
  OF ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

          1868-1882

         THE LETTERS
  OF ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

I

STUDENT DAYS AT EDINBURGH

TRAVELS AND EXCURSIONS

1868-1873

The following section consists chiefly of extracts from the correspondence and journals addressed
by Louis Stevenson, as a lad of eighteen to twenty-two, to his father and mother during summer
excursions to the Scottish coast or to the Continent. There exist enough of them to fill a
volume; but it is not in letters of this kind to his family that a young man unbosoms himself
most freely, and these are perhaps not quite devoid of the qualities of the guide-book and
the descriptive exercise. Nevertheless they seem to me to contain enough signs of the future
master-writer, enough of character, observation, and skill in expression, to make a certain
number worth giving by way of an opening chapter to the present book. Among them are interspersed
four or five of a different character addressed to other correspondents, and chiefly to his
lifelong friend and intimate, Mr. Charles Baxter.

On both sides of the house Stevenson came of interesting stock. His grandfather was Robert
Stevenson, civil engineer, highly distinguished as the builder of the Bell Rock lighthouse.
By this Robert Stevenson, his three sons, and two of his grandsons now living, the business
of civil engineers in general, and of official engineers to the Commissioners of Northern Lights
in particular, has been carried on at Edinburgh with high credit and public utility for almost
a century. Thomas Stevenson, the youngest of the three sons of the original Robert, was Robert
Louis Stevenson's father. He was a man not only of mark, zeal, and inventiveness in his profession,
but of a strong and singular personality; a staunch friend and sagacious adviser, trenchant
in judgment and demonstrative in emotion, outspoken, dogmatic,--despotic, even, in little things,
but withal essentially chivalrous and soft-hearted; apt to pass with the swiftest transition
from moods of gloom or sternness to those of tender or freakish gaiety, and commanding a gift
of humorous and figurative speech second only to that of his more famous son.

Thomas Stevenson was married to Margaret Isabella, youngest daughter of the Rev. Lewis Balfour,
for many years minister of the parish of Colinton in Midlothian. This Mr. Balfour (described
by his grandson in the essay called The Manse) was of the stock of the Balfours of Pilrig,
and grandson to that James Balfour, professor first of moral philosophy and afterwards of the
law of nature and of nations, who was held in particular esteem as a philosophical controversialist
by David Hume. His wife, Henrietta Smith, a daughter of the Rev. George Smith of Galston, to
whose gift as a preacher Burns refers scoffingly in the Holy Fair, is said to have been a woman
of uncommon beauty and charm of manner. Their daughter, Mrs. Thomas Stevenson, suffered in
early and middle life from chest and nerve troubles, and her son may have inherited from her
some of his constitutional weakness. Capable, cultivated, companionable, affectionate, she
was a determined looker at the bright side of things, and hence better skilled, perhaps, to
shut her eyes to troubles or differences among those she loved than understandingly to compose
or heal them. Conventionally minded one might have thought her, but for the surprising readiness
with which in later life she adapted herself to conditions of life and travel the most unconventional
possible. The son and only child of these two, Robert Louis (baptized Robert Lewis Balfour[3]),
was born on November 13, 1850, at 8 Howard Place, Edinburgh. His health was infirm from the
first, and he was with difficulty kept alive by the combined care of his mother and a most
devoted nurse, Alison Cunningham; to whom his lifelong gratitude will be found touchingly expressed
in the course of the following letters. In 1858 he was near dying of a gastric fever, and was
at all times subject to acute catarrhal and bronchial affections and extreme nervous excitability.

In January 1853 Stevenson's parents moved to Inverleith Terrace, and in May 1857 to 17 Heriot
Row, which continued to be their Edinburgh home until the death of Thomas Stevenson in 1887.
Much of the boy's time was also spent in the manse of Colinton on the Water of Leith, the home
of his maternal grandfather. Ill-health prevented him getting much regular or continuous schooling.
He attended first (1858-61) a preparatory school kept by a Mr. Henderson in India Street; and
next (at intervals for some time after the autumn of 1861) the Edinburgh Academy.

Schooling was interrupted in the end of 1862 and first half of 1863 by excursions with his
parents to Germany, the Riviera, and Italy. The love of wandering, which was a rooted passion
in Stevenson's nature, thus began early to find satisfaction. For a few months in the autumn
of 1863, when his parents had been ordered for a second time to Mentone for the sake of his
mother's health, he was sent to a boarding-school kept by a Mr. Wyatt at Spring Grove, near
London. It is not my intention to treat the reader to the series of childish and boyish letters
of these days which parental fondness has preserved. But here is one written from his English
school when he was about thirteen, which is both amusing in itself and had a certain influence
on his destiny, inasmuch as his appeal led to his being taken out to join his parents on the
French Riviera; which from these days of his boyhood he never ceased to love, and for which
the longing, amid the gloom of Edinburgh winters, often afterwards gripped him by the heart.

This young French scholar has yet, it will be discerned, a good way to travel; in later days
he acquired a complete reading and speaking, with a less complete writing, mastery of the language,
and was as much at home with French ways of thought and life as with English.

From 1864 to 1867 Stevenson's education was conducted chiefly at Mr. Thomson's private school
in Frederick Street, Edinburgh, and by private tutors in various places to which he travelled
for his own or his parents' health. These travels included frequent visits to such Scottish
health resorts as Bridge of Allan, Dunoon, Rothesay, North Berwick, Lasswade, and Peebles,
and occasional excursions with his father on his nearer professional rounds to the Scottish
coasts and lighthouses. From 1867 the family life became more settled between Edinburgh and
Swanston Cottage, Lothianburn, a country home in the Pentlands which Mr. Stevenson first rented
in that year, and the scenery and associations of which sank deeply into the young man's spirit,
and vitally affected his after thoughts and his art.

By this time Louis Stevenson seemed to show signs of outgrowing his early infirmities of health.
He was a lover, to a degree even beyond his strength, of outdoor life and exercise (though
not of sports), and it began to be hoped that as he grew up he would be fit to enter the family
profession of civil engineer. He was accordingly entered as a student at Edinburgh University,
and for several winters attended classes there with such regularity as his health and inclinations
permitted. This was in truth but small. The mind on fire with its own imaginations, and eager
to acquire its own experiences in its own way, does not take kindly to the routine of classes
and repetitions, nor could the desultory mode of schooling enforced upon him by ill-health
answer much purpose by way of discipline. According to his own account he was at college, as
he had been at school, an inveterate idler and truant. But outside the field of school and
college routine he showed an eager curiosity and activity of mind. "He was of a conversable
temper," so he says of himself, "and insatiably curious in the aspects of life, and spent much
of his time scraping acquaintance with all classes of men and womenkind." Of one class indeed,
and that was his own, he had soon had enough, at least in so far as it was to be studied at
the dinners, dances, and other polite entertainments of ordinary Edinburgh society. Of these
he early wearied. At home he made himself pleasant to all comers, but for his own resort chose
out a very few houses, mostly those of intimate college companions, into which he could go
without constraint, and where his inexhaustible flow of poetic, imaginative, and laughing talk
seems generally to have rather puzzled his hearers than impressed them. On the other hand,
during his endless private rambles and excursions, whether among the streets and slums, the
gardens and graveyards of the city, or farther afield among the Pentland hills or on the shores
of Forth, he was never tired of studying character and seeking acquaintance among the classes
more nearly exposed to the pinch and stress of life.

In the eyes of anxious elders, such vagrant ways naturally take on the colours of idleness
and a love of low company. Stevenson was, however, in his own fashion an eager student of books
as well as of man and nature. He read precociously and omnivorously in the belles-lettres,
including a very wide range of English poetry, fiction, and essays, and a fairly wide range
of French; and was a genuine student of Scottish history, especially from the time of the persecutions
down, and to some extent of history in general. The art of literature was already his private
passion, and something within him even already told him that it was to be his life's work.
On all his truantries he went pencil and copybook in hand, trying to fit his impression of
the scene to words, to compose original rhymes, tales, dialogues, and dramas, or to imitate
the style and cadences of the author he at the moment preferred. For three or four years, nevertheless,
he tried dutifully, if half-heartedly, to prepare himself for the family profession. In 1868,
the year when the following correspondence opens, he went to watch the works of the firm in
progress first at Anstruther on the coast of Fife, and afterwards at Wick. In 1869 he made
the tour of the Orkneys and Shetlands on board the steam yacht of the Commissioners of Northern
Lights, and in 1870 the tour of the Western Islands, preceded by a stay on the isle of Earraid,
where the works of the Dhu Heartach lighthouse were then in progress. He was a favourite, although
a very irregular, pupil of the professor of engineering, Fleeming Jenkin, whose friendship
and that of Mrs. Jenkin were of great value to him, and whose life he afterwards wrote; and
must have shown some aptitude for the family calling, inasmuch as in 1871 he received the silver
medal of the Edinburgh Society of Arts for a paper on a suggested improvement in lighthouse
apparatus. The outdoor and seafaring parts of an engineer's life were in fact wholly to his
taste. But he looked instinctively at the powers and phenomena of waves and tide, of storm
and current, reef, cliff, and rock, with the eye of the poet and artist, and not those of the
practician and calculator. For desk work and office routine he had an unconquerable aversion;
and his physical powers, had they remained at their best, must have proved quite unequal to
the workshop training necessary to the practical engineer. Accordingly in 1871 it was agreed,
not without natural reluctance on his father's part, that he should give up the hereditary
vocation and read for the bar: literature, on which his heart was set, and in which his early
attempts had been encouraged, being held to be by itself no profession, or at least one altogether
too irregular and undefined. For the next several years, therefore, he attended law classes
instead of engineering and science classes in the University, giving to the subject a certain
amount of serious, although fitful, attention until he was called to the bar in 1875.

So much for the course of Stevenson's outward life during these days at Edinburgh. To tell
the story of his inner life would be a far more complicated task, and cannot here be attempted
even briefly. The ferment of youth was more acute and more prolonged in him than in most men
even of genius. In the Introduction I have tried to give some notion of the many various strains
and elements which met in him, and which were in these days pulling one against another in
his half-formed being, at a great expense of spirit and body. Add the storms, which from time
to time attacked him, of shivering repulsion from the climate and conditions of life in the
city which he yet deeply and imaginatively loved; the moods of spiritual revolt against the
harsh doctrines of the creed in which he had been brought up, and to which his parents were
deeply, his father even passionately, attached; the seasons of temptation, to which he was
exposed alike by temperament and circumstance, to seek solace among the crude allurements of
the city streets.

In the later and maturer correspondence which will appear in these volumes, the agitations
of the writer's early days are often enough referred to in retrospect. In the boyish letters
to his parents, which make up the chief part of this first section, they naturally find no
expression at all; nor will these letters be found to differ much in any way from those of
any other lively and observant lad who is also something of a reader and has some natural gift
of writing. At the end of the section I have indeed printed one cry of the heart, written not
to his parents, but about them, and telling of the strain which matters of religious difference
for a while brought into his home relations. The attachment between the father and son from
childhood was exceptionally strong. But the father was staunchly wedded to the hereditary creeds
and dogmas of Scottish Calvinistic Christianity; while the course of the young man's reading,
with the spirit of the generation in which he grew up, had loosed him from the bonds of that
theology, and even of dogmatic Christianity in general, and had taught him to respect all creeds
alike as expressions of the cravings and conjectures of the human spirit in face of the unsolved
mystery of things, rather than to cling to any one of them as a revelation of ultimate truth.
The shock to the father was great when his son's opinions came to his knowledge; and there
ensued a time of extremely painful discussion and private tension between them. In due time
this cloud upon a family life otherwise very harmonious and affectionate passed quite away.
But the greater the love, the greater the pain; when I first knew Stevenson this trouble gave
him no peace, and it has left a strong trace upon his mind and work. See particularly the parable
called "The House of Eld," in his collection of Fables, and the many studies of difficult paternal
and filial relations which are to be found in The Story of a Lie, The Misadventures of John
Nicholson, The Wrecker, and Weir of Hermiston.

TO THOMAS STEVENSON

   In July 1868 R. L. S. went to watch the harbour works at Anstruther
   and afterwards those at Wick. Of his private moods and occupations in
   the Anstruther days he has told in retrospect in the essay Random
   Memories: the Coast of Fife. Here are some passages from letters
   written at the time to his parents. "Travellers" and "jennies" are,
   of course, terms of engineering.

     'Kenzie House or whatever it is called, Anstruther. [July 1868.]

  First sheet: Thursday.
  Second sheet: Friday.

MY DEAR FATHER,--My lodgings are very nice, and I don't think there are any children. There
is a box of mignonette in the window and a factory of dried rose-leaves, which make the atmosphere
a trifle heavy, but very pleasant.

When you come, bring also my paint-box--I forgot it. I am going to try the travellers and jennies,
and have made a sketch of them and begun the drawing. After that I'll do the staging.

Mrs. Brown "has suffered herself from her stommick, and that makes her kind of think for other
people." She is a motherly lot. Her mothering and thought for others displays itself in advice
against hard-boiled eggs, well-done meat, and late dinners, these being my only requests. Fancy--I
am the only person in Anstruther who dines in the afternoon.

If you could bring me some wine when you come, 'twould be a good move: I fear vin d'Anstruther;
and having procured myself a severe attack of gripes by two days' total abstinence on chilly
table beer I have been forced to purchase Green Ginger ("Somebody or other's 'celebrated'"),
for the benefit of my stomach, like St. Paul.

There is little or nothing doing here to be seen. By heightening the corner in a hurry to support
the staging they have let the masons get ahead of the divers and wait till they can overtake
them. I wish you would write and put me up to the sort of things to ask and find out. I received
your registered letter with the £5; it will last for ever. To-morrow I will watch the masons
at the pier-foot and see how long they take to work that Fifeness stone you ask about; they
get sixpence an hour; so that is the only datum required.

It is awful how slowly I draw, and how ill: I am not nearly done with the travellers, and have
not thought of the jennies yet. When I'm drawing I find out something I have not measured,
or, having measured, have not noted, or, having noted, cannot find; and so I have to trudge
to the pier again ere I can go farther with my noble design.

Love to all.--Your affectionate son,

     R. L. STEVENSON.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

     'Kenzie House, Anstruther [later in July, 1868].

MY DEAR MOTHER,--To-night I went with the youngest M. to see a strolling band of players in
the townhall. A large table placed below the gallery with a print curtain on either side of
the most limited dimensions was at once the scenery and the proscenium. The manager told us
that his scenes were sixteen by sixty-four, and so could not be got in. Though I knew, or at
least felt sure, that there were no such scenes in the poor man's possession, I could not laugh,
as did the major part of the audience, at this shift to escape criticism. We saw a wretched
farce, and some comic songs were sung. The manager sang one, but it came grimly from his throat.
The whole receipt of the evening was 5s. and 3d., out of which had to come room, gas, and town
drummer. We left soon; and I must say came out as sad as I have been for ever so long: I think
that manager had a soul above comic songs. I said this to young M., who is a "Phillistine"
(Matthew Arnold's Philistine you understand), and he replied, "How much happier would he be
as a common working-man!" I told him I thought he would be less happy earning a comfortable
living as a shoemaker than he was starving as an actor, with such artistic work as he had to
do. But the Phillistine wouldn't see it. You observe that I spell Philistine time about with
one and two l's.

As we went home we heard singing, and went into the porch of the schoolhouse to listen. A fisherman
entered and told us to go in. It was a psalmody class. One of the girls had a glorious voice.
We stayed for half an hour.

Tuesday.--I am utterly sick of this grey, grim, sea-beaten hole. I have a little cold in my
head, which makes my eyes sore; and you can't tell how utterly sick I am, and how anxious to
get back among trees and flowers and something less meaningless than this bleak fertility.

Papa need not imagine that I have a bad cold or am stone-blind from this description, which
is the whole truth.

Last night Mr. and Mrs. Fortune called in a dog-cart, Fortune's beard and Mrs. F.'s brow glittering
with mist-drops, to ask me to come next Saturday. Conditionally, I accepted. Do you think I
can cut it? I am only anxious to go slick home on the Saturday. Write by return of post and
tell me what to do. If possible, I should like to cut the business and come right slick out
to Swanston.--I remain, your affectionate son,

     R. L. STEVENSON.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   An early Portfolio paper On the Enjoyment of Unpleasant Places, as
   well as the second part of the Random Memories essay, written
   twenty years later, refer to the same experiences as the following
   letters.

To MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   The Macdonald father and son here mentioned were engineers attached
   to the Stevenson firm and in charge of the harbour works.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   The following will help the reader to understand the passage
   referring to this undertaking in Stevenson's biographical essay on
   his father where he has told how in the end "the sea proved too
   strong for men's arts, and after expedients hitherto unthought of,
   and on a scale hyper-Cyclopean, the work must be deserted, and now
   stands a ruin in that bleak, God-forsaken bay." The Russels herein
   mentioned are the family of Sheriff Russel. The tombstone of Miss
   Sara Russel is to be seen in Wick cemetery.

C D is the new pier.

A the schooner ashore. B the salmon house.

  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   I omit the letters of 1869, which describe at great length, and not
   very interestingly, a summer trip on board the lighthouse steamer to
   the Orkneys, Shetlands, and the Fair Isle. The following of 1870 I
   give (by consent of the lady who figures as a youthful character in
   the narrative) both for the sake of its lively social
   sketches--including that of the able painter and singular personage,
   the late Sam Bough,--and because it is dated from the Isle of
   Earraid, celebrated alike in Kidnapped and in the essay Memoirs of
   an Islet.

     Earraid, Thursday, August 5th, 1870.

MY DEAR MOTHER,--I have so much to say, that needs must I take a large sheet; for the notepaper
brings with it a chilling brevity of style. Indeed, I think pleasant writing is proportional
to the size of the material you write withal.

From Edinburgh to Greenock, I had the ex-secretary of the E.U. Conservative Club, Murdoch.
At Greenock I spent a dismal evening, though I found a pretty walk. Next day on board the Iona,
I had Maggie Thomson to Tarbet; Craig, a well-read, pleasant medical, to Ardrishaig; and Professor,
Mrs., and all the little Fleeming Jenkinseses to Oban.

At Oban, that night, it was delicious. Mr. Stephenson's yacht lay in the bay, and a splendid
band on board played delightfully. The waters of the bay were as smooth as a mill-pond; and,
in the dusk, the black shadows of the hills stretched across to our very feet and the lights
were reflected in long lines. At intervals, blue lights were burned on the water; and rockets
were sent up. Sometimes great stars of clear fire fell from them, until the bay received and
quenched them. I hired a boat and skulled round the yacht in the dark. When I came in, a very
pleasant Englishman on the steps fell into talk with me, till it was time to go to bed.

Next morning I slept on or I should have gone to Glencoe. As it was, it was blazing hot; so
I hired a boat, pulled all forenoon along the coast and had a delicious bathe on a beautiful
white beach. Coming home, I cotogai'd my Englishman, lunched alongside of him and his sister,
and took a walk with him in the afternoon, during which I find that he was travelling with
a servant, kept horses, et cetera. At dinner he wished me to sit beside him and his sister;
but there was no room. When he came out he told me why he was so empressé on this point. He
had found out my name, and that I was connected with lighthouses, and his sister wished to
know if I were any relative of the Stevenson in Ballantyne's Lighthouse. All evening, he, his
sister, I, and Mr. Hargrove, of Hargrove and Fowler, sate in front of the hotel. I asked Mr.
H. if he knew who my friend was. "Yes," he said; "I never met him before: but my partner knows
him. He is a man of old family; and the solicitor of highest standing about Sheffield." At
night he said, "Now if you're down in my neighbourhood, you must pay me a visit. I am very
fond of young men about me; and I should like a visit from you very much. I can take you through
any factory in Sheffield and I'll drive you all about the Dookeries." He then wrote me down
his address; and we parted huge friends, he still keeping me up to visiting him.

Hitherto, I had enjoyed myself amazingly; but to-day has been the crown. In the morning I met
Bough on board, with whom I am both surprised and delighted. He and I have read the same books,
and discuss Chaucer, Shakespeare, Marlowe, Fletcher, Webster, and all the old authors. He can
quote verses by the page, and has really a very pretty literary taste. Altogether, with all
his roughness and buffoonery, a more pleasant, clever fellow you may seldom see. I was very
much surprised with him; and he with me. "Where the devil did you read all these books?" says
he; and in my heart, I echo the question. One amusing thing I must say. We were both talking
about travelling; and I said I was so fond of travelling alone, from the people one met and
grew friendly with. "Ah," says he, "but you've such a pleasant manner, you know--quite captivated
my old woman, you did--she couldn't talk of anything else." Here was a compliment, even in
Sam Bough's sneering tones, that rather tickled my vanity; and really, my social successes
of the last few days, the best of which is yet to come, are enough to turn anybody's head.
To continue, after a little go in with Samuel, he going up on the bridge, I looked about me
to see who there was; and mine eye lighted on two girls, one of whom was sweet and pretty,
talking to an old gentleman. "Eh bien," says I to myself, "that seems the best investment on
board." So I sidled up to the old gentleman, got into conversation with him and so with the
damsel; and thereupon, having used the patriarch as a ladder, I kicked him down behind me.
Who should my damsel prove, but Amy Sinclair, daughter of Sir Tollemache. She certainly was
the simplest, most naïve specimen of girlhood ever I saw. By getting brandy and biscuit and
generally coaching up her cousin, who was sick, I ingratiated myself; and so kept her the whole
way to Iona, taking her into the cave at Staffa and generally making myself as gallant as possible.
I was never so much pleased with anything in my life, as her amusing absence of mauvaise honte:
she was so sorry I wasn't going on to Oban again: didn't know how she could have enjoyed herself
if I hadn't been there; and was so sorry we hadn't met on the Crinan. When we came back from
Staffa, she and her aunt went down to have lunch; and a minute after up comes Miss Amy to ask
me if I wouldn't think better of it, and take some lunch with them. I couldn't resist that,
of course; so down I went; and there she displayed the full extent of her innocence. I must
be sure to come to Thurso Castle the next time I was in Caithness, and Upper Norwood (whence
she would take me all over the Crystal Palace) when I was near London; and (most complete of
all) she offered to call on us in Edinburgh! Wasn't it delicious?--she is a girl of sixteen
or seventeen, too, and the latter I think. I never yet saw a girl so innocent and fresh, so
perfectly modest without the least trace of prudery.

Coming off Staffa, Sam Bough (who had been in huge force the whole time, drawing in Miss Amy's
sketchbook and making himself agreeable or otherwise to everybody) pointed me out to a parson
and said, "That's him." This was Alexander Ross and his wife.

The last stage of the steamer now approached, Miss Amy and I lamenting pathetically that Iona
was so near. "People meet in this way," quoth she, "and then lose sight of one another so soon."
We all landed together, Bough and I and the Rosses with our baggage; and went together over
the ruins. I was here left with the cousin and the aunt, during which I learned that said cousin
sees me every Sunday in St. Stephen's. Oho! thought I, at the "every." The aunt was very anxious
to know who that strange, wild man was? (didn't I wish Samuel in Tophet!). Of course, in reply,
I drew it strong about eccentric genius and my never having known him before, and a good deal
that was perhaps "strained to the extremest limit of the fact."

The steamer left, and Miss Amy and her cousin waved their handkerchiefs, until my arm in answering
them was nearly broken. I believe women's arms must be better made for this exercise: mine
ache still; and I regretted at the time that the handkerchief had seen service. Altogether,
however, I was left in a pleasant frame of mind.

Being thus left alone, Bough, I, the Rosses, Professor Blackie, and an Englishman called M----:
these people were going to remain the night, except the Professor, who is resident there at
present. They were going to dine en compagnie and wished us to join the party; but we had already
committed ourselves by mistake to the wrong hotel, and besides, we wished to be off as soon
as wind and tide were against us to Earraid. We went up; Bough selected a place for sketching
and blocked in the sketch for Mrs. R.; and we all talked together. Bough told us his family
history and a lot of strange things about old Cumberland life; among others, how he had known
"John Peel" of pleasant memory in song, and of how that worthy hunted. At five, down we go
to the Argyll Hotel, and wait dinner. Broth--"nice broth"--fresh herrings, and fowl had been
promised. At 5.50, I get the shovel and tongs and drum them at the stair-head till a response
comes from below that the nice broth is at hand. I boast of my engineering, and Bough compares
me to the Abbot of Arbroath who originated the Inchcape Bell. At last, in comes the tureen
and the hand-maid lifts the cover. "Rice soup!" I yell; "O no! none o' that for me!"--"Yes,"
says Bough savagely; "but Miss Amy didn't take me downstairs to eat salmon." Accordingly he
is helped. How his face fell. "I imagine myself in the accident ward of the Infirmary," quoth
he. It was, purely and simply, rice and water. After this, we have another weary pause, and
then herrings in a state of mash and potatoes like iron. "Send the potatoes out to Prussia
for grape-shot," was the suggestion. I dined off broken herrings and dry bread. At last "the
supreme moment comes," and the fowl in a lordly dish is carried in. On the cover being raised,
there is something so forlorn and miserable about the aspect of the animal that we both roar
with laughter. Then Bough, taking up knife and fork, turns the "swarry" over and over, shaking
doubtfully his head. "There's an aspect of quiet resistance about the beggar," says he, "that
looks bad." However, to work he falls until the sweat stands on his brow and a dismembered
leg falls, dull and leaden-like, on to my dish. To eat it was simply impossible. I did not
know before that flesh could be so tough. "The strongest jaws in England," says Bough piteously,
harpooning his dry morsel, "couldn't eat this leg in less than twelve hours." Nothing for it
now, but to order boat and bill. "That fowl," says Bough to the landlady, "is of a breed I
know. I knew the cut of its jib whenever it was put down. That was the grandmother of the cock
that frightened Peter."--"I thought it was a historical animal," says I. "What a shame to kill
it. It's as bad as eating Whittington's cat or the Dog of Montargis."--"Na--na, it's no so
old," says the landlady, "but it eats hard."--"Eats!" I cry, "where do you find that? Very
little of that verb with us." So with more raillery, we pay six shillings for our festival
and run over to Earraid, shaking the dust of the Argyll Hotel from off our feet.

I can write no more just now, and I hope you will be able to decipher so much; for it contains
matter. Really, the whole of yesterday's work would do in a novel without one little bit of
embellishment; and, indeed, few novels are so amusing. Bough, Miss Amy, Mrs. Ross, Blackie,
M---- the parson--all these were such distinct characters, the incidents were so entertaining,
and the scenery so fine, that the whole would have made a novelist's fortune.

MY DEAR FATHER,--No landing to-day, as the sea runs high on the rock. They are at the second
course of the first story on the rock. I have as yet had no time here; so this is [Greek: a]
and [Greek: ô] of my business news.--Your affectionate son,

     R. L. STEVENSON.

TO MRS. CHURCHILL BABINGTON

   This is addressed to a favourite cousin of the Balfour clan, married
   to a Cambridge colleague of mine, Professor Churchill Babington of
   learned and amiable memory, whose home was at the college living of
   Cockfield near Bury St. Edmunds. Here Stevenson had visited them in
   the previous year. "Mrs. Hutchinson" is, of course, Lucy Hutchinson's
   famous Life of her husband the regicide.

TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

   The following is the first which has been preserved of many letters
   to the admirable nurse whose care, during his ailing childhood, had
   done so much both to preserve Stevenson's life and awaken his love of
   tales and poetry, and of whom until his death he thought with the
   utmost constancy of affection.

TO CHARLES BAXTER

   The "Spec." is, of course, the famous and historical debating society
   (the Speculative Society) of Edinburgh University, to which Stevenson
   had been elected on the strength of his conversational powers, and to
   whose meetings he contributed several essays. Accordingly his summer excursions were
   no longer to the harbour works and lighthouses of Scotland, but to
   the ordinary scenes of holiday travel abroad.

TO CHARLES BAXTER

   On the way home with Sir Walter Simpson from Germany. The L.J.R.
   herein mentioned was a short-lived Essay Club of only six members;
   its meetings were held in a public-house in Advocate's Close; the
   meaning of its initials (as recently divulged by Mr. Baxter) was
   Liberty, Justice, Reverence; no doubt understood by the members in
   some fresh and esoteric sense of their own.

     Boulogne Sur Mer, Wednesday, 3rd or 4th September 1872.

  Blame me not that this epistle
    Is the first you have from me.
      Idleness has held me fettered,
      But at last the times are bettered
  And once more I wet my whistle
    Here, in France beside the sea.

  All the green and idle weather
    I have had in sun and shower,
      Such an easy warm subsistence,
      Such an indolent existence
  I should find it hard to sever
    Day from day and hour from hour.

  Many a tract-provided ranter
    May upbraid me, dark and sour,
      Many a bland Utilitarian
      Or excited Millenarian,
  --"Pereunt et imputantur
    You must speak to every hour."

  But (the very term's deceptive)
    You at least, my friend, will see,
      That in sunny grassy meadows
      Trailed across by moving shadows
  To be actively receptive
    Is as much as man can be.

  He that all the winter grapples
    Difficulties, thrust and ward--
      Needs to cheer him thro' his duty
      Memories of sun and beauty
  Orchards with the russet apples
    Lying scattered on the sward.

  Many such I keep in prison,
    Keep them here at heart unseen,
      Till my muse again rehearses
      Long years hence, and in my verses
  You shall meet them rearisen
    Ever comely, ever green.

  You know how they never perish,
    How, in time of later art,
      Memories consecrate and sweeten
      These defaced and tempest-beaten
  Flowers of former years we cherish,
    Half a life, against our heart.

  Most, those love-fruits withered greenly,
    Those frail, sickly amourettes,
      How they brighten with the distance
      Take new strength and new existence
  Till we see them sitting queenly
    Crowned and courted by regrets!

  All that loveliest and best is,
    Aureole-fashion round their head,
      They that looked in life but plainly,
      How they stir our spirits vainly
  When they come to us Alcestis-
    like returning from the dead!

  Not the old love but another,
    Bright she comes at Memory's call
      Our forgotten vows reviving
      To a newer, livelier living,
  As the dead child to the mother
    Seems the fairest child of all.

  Thus our Goethe, sacred master,
    Travelling backward thro' his youth,
      Surely wandered wrong in trying
      To renew the old, undying
  Loves that cling in memory faster
    Than they ever lived in truth.

So; en voilà assez de mauvais vers. Let us finish with a word or two in honest prose, tho'
indeed I shall so soon be back again and, if you be in town as I hope, so soon get linked again
down the Lothian road by a cigar or two and a liquor, that it is perhaps scarce worth the postage
to send my letter on before me. I have just been long enough away to be satisfied and even
anxious to get home again and talk the matter over with my friends. I shall have plenty to
tell you; and principally plenty that I do not care to write; and I daresay, you, too, will
have a lot of gossip. What about Ferrier? Is the L.J.R. think you to go naked and unashamed
this winter? He with his charming idiosyncrasy was in my eyes the vine-leaf that preserved
our self-respect. All the rest of us are such shadows, compared to his full-flavoured personality;
but I must not spoil my own début. I am trenching upon one of the essayettes which I propose
to introduce as a novelty this year before that august assembly. For we must not let it die.
It is a sickly baby, but what with nursing, and pap, and the like, I do not see why it should
not have a stout manhood after all, and perhaps a green old age. Eh! when we are old (if we
ever should be) that too will be one of those cherished memories I have been so rhapsodizing
over. We must consecrate our room. We must make it a museum of bright recollections; so that
we may go back there white-headed, and say "Vixi." After all, new countries, sun, music, and
all the rest can never take down our gusty, rainy, smoky, grim old city out of the first place
that it has been making for itself in the bottom of my soul, by all pleasant and hard things
that have befallen me for these past twenty years or so. My heart is buried there--say, in
Advocate's Close!

Simpson and I got on very well together, and made a very suitable pair. I like him much better
than I did when I started which was almost more than I hoped for.

If you should chance to see Bob, give him my news or if you have the letter about you, let
him see it.--Ever your Affct. friend,

     R. L. STEVENSON.

TO CHARLES BAXTER

   Through the jesting tenor of this letter is to be discerned a vein of
   more than half serious thinking very characteristic of R. L. S. alike
   as youth and man.

     17 Heriot Row, Edinburgh, October 1872.

MY DEAR BAXTER,--I am gum-boiled and face swollen to an unprecedented degree. It is very depressing
to suffer from gibber that cannot be brought to a head. I cannot speak it, because my face
is so swollen and stiff that enunciation must be deliberate--a thing your true gibberer cannot
hold up his head under; and writ gibber is somehow not gibber at all, it does not come forth,
does not flow, with that fine irrational freedom that it loves in speech--it does not afford
relief to the packed bosom.

Hence I am suffering from suppressed gibber--an uneasy complaint; and like all cases of suppressed
humours, this hath a nasty tendency to the brain. Therefore (the more confused I get, the more
I lean on Thus's and Hences and Therefores) you must not be down upon me, most noble Festus,
altho' this letter should smack of some infirmity of judgment. I speak the words of soberness
and truth; and would you were not almost but altogether as I am, except this swelling. Lord,
Lord, if we could change personalities how we should hate it. How I should rebel at the office,
repugn under the Ulster coat, and repudiate your monkish humours thus unjustly and suddenly
thrust upon poor, infidel me! And as for you--why, my dear Charles, "a mouse that hath its
lodging in a cat's ear" would not be so uneasy as you in your new conditions. I do not see
how your temperament would come thro' the feverish longings to do things that cannot then (or
perhaps ever) be accomplished, the feverish unrests and damnable indecisions, that it takes
all my easy-going spirits to come through. A vane can live out anything in the shape of a wind;
and that is how I can be, and am, a more serious person than you. Just as the light French
seemed very serious to Sterne, light L. Stevenson can afford to bob about over the top of any
deep sea of prospect or retrospect, where ironclad C. Baxter would incontinently go down with
all hands. A fool is generally the wisest person out. The wise man must shut his eyes to all
the perils and horrors that lie round him; but the cap and bells can go bobbing along the most
slippery ledges and the bauble will not stir up sleeping lions. Hurray! for motley, for a good
sound insouciance, for a healthy philosophic carelessness!

My dear Baxter, a word in your ear--"<sc>DON'T YOU WISH YOU WERE A FOOL</sc>?" How easy the
world would go on with you--literally on castors. The only reason a wise man can assign for
getting drunk is that he wishes to enjoy for a while the blessed immunities and sunshiny weather
of the land of fooldom. But a fool, who dwells ever there, has no excuse at all. That is a
happy land, if you like--and not so far away either. Take a fool's advice and let us strive
without ceasing to get into it. Hark in your ear again: "THEY ALLOW PEOPLE TO REASON IN THAT
LAND." I wish I could take you by the hand and lead you away into its pleasant boundaries.
There is no custom-house on the frontier, and you may take in what books you will. There are
no manners and customs; but men and women grow up, like trees in a still, well-walled garden,
"at their own sweet will." There is no prescribed or customary folly--no motley, cap, or bauble:
out of the well of each one's own innate absurdity he is allowed and encouraged freely to draw
and to communicate; and it is a strange thing how this natural fooling comes so nigh to one's
better thoughts of wisdom; and stranger still, that all this discord of people speaking in
their own natural moods and keys, masses itself into a far more perfect harmony than all the
dismal, official unison in which they sing in other countries. Part-singing seems best all
the world over.

I who live in England must wear the hackneyed symbols of the profession, to show that I have
(at least) consular immunities, coming as I do out of another land, where they are not so wise
as they are here, but fancy that God likes what he makes and is not best pleased with us when
we deface and dissemble all that he has given us and put about us to one common standard of----Highty-Tighty!--when
was a jester obliged to finish his sentence? I cut so strong a pirouette that all my bells
jingle, and come down in an attitude, with one hand upon my hip. The evening's entertainment
is over,--"and if our kyind friends----"

Hurrah! I feel relieved. I have put out my gibber, and if you have read thus far, you will
have taken it in. I wonder if you will ever come this length. I shall try a trap for you, and
insult you here, on this last page. "O Baxter what a damned humbug you are!" There,--shall
this insult bloom and die unseen, or will you come toward me, when next we meet, with a face
deformed with anger and demand speedy and bloody satisfaction. Nous verrons, which is French.

     R. L. STEVENSON.

TO CHARLES BAXTER

   In the winter of 1872-73 Stevenson was out of health again; and by
   the beginning of spring there began the trouble which for the next
   twelve months clouded his home life.

FOOTNOTES:

  [3] It was the father who, from dislike of a certain Edinburgh
    Lewis, changed the sound and spelling of his son's second name to
    Louis (spoken always with the "s" sounded), and it was the son
    himself who about his eighteenth year dropped the use of his third
    name and initial altogether.

  [4] See a paper on R. L. Stevenson in Wick, by Margaret H. Roberton,
    in Magazine of Wick Literary Society, Christmas 1903.

  [5] Aikman's Annals of the Persecution in Scotland.

  [6] Thomas Stevenson.

II

STUDENT DAYS--Continued

NEW FRIENDSHIPS--ORDERED SOUTH

JULY 1873-MAY 1874

The year 1873 was a critical one in Stevenson's life. Late in July he went for the second time
to pay a visit to Cockfield Rectory, the pleasant Suffolk home of his cousin Mrs. Churchill
Babington and her husband. Another guest at the same time was Mrs. Sitwell--now my wife--an
intimate friend and connection by marriage of the hostess. I was shortly due to join the party,
when Mrs. Sitwell wrote telling me of the "fine young spirit" she had found under her friend's
roof, and suggesting that I should hasten my visit so as to make his acquaintance before he
left. I came accordingly, and from that time on the fine young spirit became a leading interest
both in her life and mine. He had thrown himself on her sympathies, in that troubled hour of
his youth, with entire dependence almost from the first, and clung to her devotedly for the
next two years as to an inspirer, consoler, and guide. Under her influence he began for the
first time to see his way in life, and to believe hopefully and manfully in his own powers
and future. To encourage such hopes further, and to lend what hand one could towards their
fulfilment, became quickly one of the first of cares and pleasures. It was impossible not to
recognise, in this very un-academical type of Scottish youth, a spirit the most interesting
and full of promise. His social charm was already at its height, and quite irresistible; but
inwardly he was full of trouble and self-doubt. If he could steer himself or be steered safely
through the difficulties of youth, and if he could learn to write with half the charm and genius
that shone from his presence and conversation, there seemed room to hope for the highest from
him. He went back to Edinburgh in the beginning of September full of new hope and heart. It
had been agreed that while still reading, as his parents desired, for the bar, he should try
seriously to get ready for publication some essays which he had already on hand--one on Walt
Whitman, one on John Knox, one on Roads and the Spirit of the Road--and should so far as possible
avoid topics of dispute in the home circle.

But after a while the news of him was not favourable. Those differences with his father, which
had been weighing almost morbidly upon his high-strung nature, were renewed. By mid-October
his letters told of failing health. He came to London, and instead of presenting himself, as
had been proposed, to be examined for admission to one of the London Inns of Court, he was
forced to consult the late Sir Andrew Clark, who found him suffering from acute nerve exhaustion,
with some threat of danger to the lungs. He was ordered to break at once with Edinburgh for
a time, and to spend the winter in a more soothing climate and surroundings. He went accordingly
to Mentone, a place he had delighted in as a boy ten years before, and during a stay of six
months made a slow, but for the time being a pretty complete, recovery. I visited him twice
during the winter, and the second time found him coming fairly to himself again in the southern
peace and sunshine. He was busy with the essay Ordered South, and with that on Victor Hugo's
Romances, which was afterwards his first contribution to the Cornhill Magazine; was full of
a thousand dreams and projects for future work; and was passing his invalid days pleasantly
meanwhile in the companionship of two kind and accomplished Russian ladies, who took to him
warmly, and of their children. The following record of the time is drawn from his correspondence
partly with his parents and partly with myself, but chiefly from the journal-letters, containing
a full and intimate record of his daily moods and doings, which he was accustomed to send off
weekly or oftener to Mrs. Sitwell.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   This is from his cousin's house in Suffolk.

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   After leaving Cockfield Stevenson spent a few days in London and a
   few with me in a cottage I then had at Norwood. This and the
   following letters were written in the next days after his return
   home. "Bob" in the last paragraph is Robert Alan Mowbray Stevenson,
   an elder cousin to whom Louis had been from boyhood devotedly
   attached: afterwards known as the brilliant painter-critic and author
   of Velasquez, etc.

     17 Heriot Row, Edinburgh, Monday, September 1st, 1873.

I have arrived, as you see, without accident; but I never had a more wretched journey in my
life. I could not settle to read anything; I bought Darwin's last book in despair, for I knew
I could generally read Darwin, but it was a failure. However, the book served me in good stead;
for when a couple of children got in at Newcastle, I struck up a great friendship with them
on the strength of the illustrations. These two children (a girl of nine and a boy of six)
had never before travelled in a railway, so that everything was a glory to them, and they were
never tired of watching the telegraph posts and trees and hedges go racing past us to the tail
of the train; and the girl I found quite entered into the most daring personifications that
I could make. A little way on, about Alnmouth, they had their first sight of the sea; and it
was wonderful how loath they were to believe that what they saw was water; indeed it was very
still and grey and solid-looking under a sky to match. It was worth the fare, yet a little
farther on, to see the delight of the girl when she passed into "another country," with the
black Tweed under our feet, crossed by the lamps of the passenger bridge. I remember the first
time I had gone into "another country," over the same river from the other side.

Bob was not at the station when I arrived; but a friend of his brought me a letter; and he
is to be in the first thing to-morrow. Do you know, I think yesterday and the day before were
the two happiest days of my life? I would not have missed last month for eternity.--Ever yours,

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   The paper on Roads herein mentioned had been planned during walks
   at Cockfield; was offered to and rejected by the Saturday Review and
   ultimately accepted by Mr. Hamerton for the Portfolio; and was the
   first regular or paid contribution of Stevenson to periodical
   literature.

Sunday.--It has rained and blown chilly out of the East all day. This was my first visit to
church since the last Sunday at Cockfield. I was alone, and read the minor prophets and thought
of the past all the time; a sentimental Calvinist preached--a very odd animal, as you may fancy--and
to him I did not attend very closely. All afternoon I worked until half-past four, when I went
out under an umbrella, and cruised about the empty, wet, glimmering streets until near dinner time.

TO MRS SITWELL

   After an outpouring about difficulties at home. I
have so perfect an idea out of that song! Do you know, I find these rows harder on me
than ever. I get a funny swimming in the head when they come on that I
had not before--and the like when I think of them.

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     [Edinburgh], Monday, 22nd September 1873.

I have just had another disagreeable to-night. It is difficult indeed to steer steady among
the breakers: I am always touching ground; generally it is my own blame, for I cannot help
getting friendly with my father (whom I do love), and so speaking foolishly with my mouth.
I have yet to learn in ordinary conversation that reserve and silence that I must try to unlearn
in the matter of the feelings.

The news that Roads would do reached me in good season; I had begun utterly to despair of doing
anything. Certainly I do not think I should be in a hurry to commit myself about the Covenanters;
the whole subject turns round about me and so branches out to this side and that, that I grow
bewildered; and one cannot write discreetly about any one little corner of an historical period,
until one has an organic view of the whole. I have, however--given life and health--great hope
of my Covenanters; indeed, there is a lot of precious dust to be beaten out of that stack even
by a very infirm hand.

Much later.--I can scarcely see to write just now; so please excuse. We have had an awful scene.
All that my father had to say has been put forth--not that it was anything new; only it is
the devil to hear. I don't know what to do--the world goes hopelessly round about me; there
is no more possibility of doing, living, being anything but a beast, and there's the end of it.

It is eleven, I think, for a clock struck. O Lord, there has been a deal of time through our
hands since I went down to supper! All this has come from my own folly; I somehow could not
think the gulf so impassable, and I read him some notes on the Duke of Argyll[8]--I thought
he would agree so far, and that we might have some rational discussion on the rest. And now--after
some hours--he has told me that he is a weak man, and that I am driving him too far, and that
I know not what I am doing. O dear God, this is bad work!

I have lit a pipe and feel calmer. I say, my dear friend, I am killing my father--he told me
to-night (by the way) that I alienated utterly my mother--and this is the result of my attempt
to start fair and fresh and to do my best for all of them.

I must wait till to-morrow ere I finish. I am to-night too excited.

Tuesday.--The sun is shining to-day, which is a great matter, and altogether the gale having
blown off again, I live in a precarious lull. On the whole I am not displeased with last night;
I kept my eyes open through it all, and, I think, not only avoided saying anything that could
make matters worse in the future, but said something that may do good. But a little better
or a little worse is a trifle. I lay in bed this morning awake, for I was tired and cold and
in no special hurry to rise, and heard my father go out for the papers; and then I lay and
wished--O, if he would only whistle when he comes in again! But of course he did not. I have
stopped that pipe.

Now, you see, I have written to you this time and sent it off, for both of which God forgive
me.--Ever your faithful friend, R. L. S.

My father and I together can put about a year through in half an hour. Look here, you mustn't
take this too much to heart. I shall be all right in a few hours. It's impossible to depress
me. And of course, when you can't do anything, there's no need of being depressed. It's all
waste tissue.

     L.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     [Edinburgh], Wednesday, September 24th 1873.

I have found another "flowering isle." All this beautiful, quiet, sunlit day, I have been out
in the country; down by the sea on my favourite coast between Granton and Queensferry. There
was a delicate, delicious haze over the firth and sands on one side, and on the other was the
shadow of the woods all riven with great golden rifts of sunshine. A little faint talk of waves
upon the beach; the wild strange crying of seagulls over the sea; and the hoarse wood-pigeons
and shrill, sweet robins full of their autumn love-making among the trees, made up a delectable
concerto of peaceful noises. I spent the whole afternoon among these sights and sounds with
Simpson. And we came home from Queensferry on the outside of the coach and four, along a beautiful
way full of ups and downs among woody, uneven country, laid out (fifty years ago, I suppose)
by my grandfather, on the notion of Hogarth's line of beauty. You see my taste for roads is
hereditary.

Friday.--I was wakened this morning by a long flourish of bugles and a roll upon the drums--the
réveillé at the Castle. I went to the window; it was a grey, quiet dawn, a few people passed
already up the street between the gardens, already I heard the noise of an early cab somewhere
in the distance, most of the lamps had been extinguished but not all, and there were two or
three lit windows in the opposite façade that showed where sick people and watchers had been
awake all night and knew not yet of the new, cool day. This appealed to me with a special sadness:
how often in the old times my nurse and I had looked across at these, and sympathised!

I wish you would read Michelet's Louis Quatorze et la Révocation de l'Édit de Nantes. I read
it out in the garden, and the autumnal trees and weather, and my own autumnal humour, and the
pitiable prolonged tragedies of Madame and of Molière, as they look, darkling and sombre, out
of their niches in the great gingerbread façade of the Grand Âge, go wonderfully hand in hand.

I wonder if my revised paper has pleased the Saturday? If it has not, I shall be rather sorry--no,
very sorry indeed--but not surprised and certainly not hurt. It will be a great disappointment;
but I am glad to say that, among all my queasy, troublesome feelings, I have not a sensitive
vanity. Not that I am not as conceited as you know me to be; only I go easy over the coals
in that matter.

I have been out reading Hallam in the garden; and have been talking with my old friend the
gardener, a man of singularly hard favour and few teeth. He consulted me this afternoon on
the choice of books, premising that his taste ran mainly on war and travel. On travel I had
to own at once my ignorance. I suggested Kinglake, but he had read that; and so, finding myself
here unhorsed, I turned about and at last recollected Southey's Lives of the Admirals, and
the volumes of Macaulay containing the wars of William. Can you think of any other for this
worthy man? I believe him to hold me in as high an esteem as any one can do; and I reciprocate
his respect, for he is quite an intelligent companion.

On Saturday morning I read Morley's article aloud to Bob in one of the walks of the public
garden. I was full of it and read most excitedly; and we were ever, as we went to and fro,
passing a bench where a man sat reading the Bible aloud to a small circle of the devout. This
man is well known to me, sits there all day, sometimes reading, sometimes singing, sometimes
distributing tracts. Bob laughed much at the opposition preachers--I never noticed it till
he called my attention to the other; but it did not seem to me like opposition--does it to
you?--each in his way was teaching what he thought best.

Last night, after reading Walt Whitman a long while for my attempt to write about him, I got
tête-montée, rushed out up to M. S., came in, took out Leaves of Grass, and without giving
the poor unbeliever time to object, proceeded to wade into him with favourite passages. I had
at least this triumph, that he swore he must read some more of him.--Ever your faithful friend,

     LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   On the question of the authorship of the Ode to the Cuckoo, which
   Burke thought the most beautiful lyric in our language, the debate
   was between the claims of John Logan, minister of South Leith
   (1745-1785), and his friend and fellow-worker Michael Bruce. Those of
   Logan have, I believe, been now vindicated past doubt.

11.--I am now all right.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   On the advice of the Lord Advocate it had been agreed that Stevenson
   should present himself for admission as a student at one of the
   London Inns of Court and should come to town after the middle of
   October to be examined for that purpose. The following two letters
   refer to this purpose and to the formalities required for effecting
   it:--

     [Edinburgh, Oct. 15, 1873], Wednesday.

MY DEAR COLVIN,--Of course I knew as well as you that I was merely running before an illness;
but I thought I should be in time to escape. However I was knocked over on Monday night with
a bad sore throat, fever, rheumatism, and a threatening of pleurisy, which last is, I think,
gone. I still hope to be able to get away early next week, though I am not very clear as to
how I shall manage the journey. If I don't get away on Wednesday at latest, I lose my excuse
for going at all, and I do wish to escape a little while.

I shall see about the form when I get home, which I hope will be to-morrow (I was taken ill
in a friend's house and have not yet been moved).

How could a broken-down engineer expect to make anything of Roads. Requiescant. When we get
well (and if we get well), we shall do something better.--Yours sincerely,

     R. L. STEVENSON.

Ye couche of pain.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

     [Edinburgh, October 16, 1873], Thursday.

MY DEAR COLVIN,--I am at my wits' end about this abominable form of admission. I don't know
what the devil it is; I haven't got one even if I did, and so can't sign.

Monday night is the very earliest on which (even if I go on mending at the very great pace
I have made already) I can hope to be in London myself. But possibly it is only intimation
that requires to be made on Tuesday morning; and one may possess oneself of a form of admission
up to the eleventh hour. I send herewith a letter which I must ask you to cherish, as I count
it a sort of talisman. Perhaps you may understand it, I don't.

If you don't understand it, please do not trouble and we must just hope that Tuesday morning
will be early enough to do all. Of course I fear the exam. will spin me; indeed after this
bodily and spiritual crisis I should not dream of coming up at all; only that I require it
as a pretext for a moment's escape, which I want much.

I am so glad that Roads has got in. I had almost as soon have it in the Portfolio as the Saturday;
the P. is so nicely printed and I am gourmet in type. I don't know how to thank you for your
continual kindness to me; and I am afraid I do not even feel grateful enough--you have let
your kindnesses come on me so easily.--Yours sincerely,

     LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   When Stevenson a few days later came to London, it was before the
   physicians and not the lawyers that he must present himself; and the
   result of an examination by Sir Andrew Clark was his prompt and
   peremptory despatch to Mentone for a winter's rest and sunshine at a
   distance from all causes of mental agitation. This episode of his
   life gave occasion to the essay Ordered South, the only one of his
   writings in which he took the invalid point of view or allowed his
   health troubles in any degree to colour his work. Travelling south by
   slow stages, he wrote on the way a long diary-letter from which
   extracts  follow:--

     Avignon [November 1873].

I have just read your letter upon the top of the hill beside the church and castle. The whole
air was filled with sunset and the sound of bells; and I wish I could give you the least notion
of the southernness and Provençality of all that I saw.

I cannot write while I am travelling; c'est un défaut; but so it is. I must have a certain
feeling of being at home, and my head must have time to settle. The new images oppress me,
and I have a fever of restlessness on me. You must not be disappointed at such shabby letters;
and besides, remember my poor head and the fanciful crawling in the spine.

I am back again in the stage of thinking there is nothing the matter with me, which is a good
sign; but I am wretchedly nervous. Anything like rudeness I am simply babyishly afraid of;
and noises, and especially the sounds of certain voices, are the devil to me. A blind poet
whom I found selling his immortal works in the streets of Sens, captivated me with the remarkable
equable strength and sweetness of his voice; and I listened a long while and bought some of
the poems; and now this voice, after I had thus got it thoroughly into my head, proved false
metal and a really bad and horrible voice at bottom. It haunted me some time, but I think I
am done with it now.

I hope you don't dislike reading bad style like this as much as I do writing it: it hurts me
when neither words nor clauses fall into their places, much as it would hurt you to sing when
you had a bad cold and your voice deceived you and missed every other note. I do feel so inclined
to break the pen and write no more; and here àpropos begins my back.

After dinner.--It blows to-night from the north down the valley of the Rhone, and everything
is so cold that I have been obliged to indulge in a fire. There is a fine crackle and roar
of burning wood in the chimney which is very homely and companionable, though it does seem
to postulate a town all white with snow outside.

I have bought Sainte-Beuve's Chateaubriand and am immensely delighted with the critic. Chateaubriand
is more antipathetic to me than anyone else in the world.

I begin to wish myself arrived to-night. Travelling, when one is not quite well, has a good
deal of unpleasantness. One is easily upset by cross incidents, and wants that belle humeur
and spirit of adventure that makes a pleasure out of what is unpleasant.

Tuesday, November 11th.--There! There's a date for you. I shall be in Mentone for my birthday,
with plenty of nice letters to read. I went away across the Rhone and up the hill on the other
side that I might see the town from a distance. Avignon followed me with its bells and drums
and bugles; for the old city has no equal for multitude of such noises. Crossing the bridge
and seeing the brown turbid water foam and eddy about the piers, one could scarce believe one's
eyes when one looked down upon the stream and saw the smooth blue mirroring tree and hill.
Over on the other side, the sun beat down so furiously on the white road that I was glad to
keep in the shadow and, when the occasion offered, to turn aside among the olive-yards. It
was nine years and six months since I had been in an olive-yard. I found myself much changed,
not so gay, but wiser and more happy. I read your letter again, and sat awhile looking down
over the tawny plain and at the fantastic outline of the city. The hills seemed just fainting
into the sky; even the great peak above Carpentras (Lord knows how many metres above the sea)
seemed unsubstantial and thin in the breadth and potency of the sunshine.

I should like to stay longer here but I can't. I am driven forward by restlessness, and leave
this afternoon about two. I am just going out now to visit again the church, castle, and hill,
for the sake of the magnificent panorama, and besides, because it is the friendliest spot in
all Avignon to me.

Later.--You cannot picture to yourself anything more steeped in hard bright sunshine than the
view from the hill. The immovable inky shadow of the old bridge on the fleeting surface of
the yellow river seemed more solid than the bridge itself. Just in the place where I sat yesterday
evening a shaven man in a velvet cap was studying music--evidently one of the singers for La
Muette de Portici at the theatre to-night. I turned back as I went away: the white Christ stood
out in strong relief on his brown cross against the blue sky, and the four kneeling angels
and lanterns grouped themselves about the foot with a symmetry that was almost laughable; the
musician read on at his music, and counted time with his hand on the stone step.

Menton, November 12th.--My first enthusiasm was on rising at Orange and throwing open the shutters.
Such a great living flood of sunshine poured in upon me, that I confess to having danced and
expressed my satisfaction aloud; in the middle of which the boots came to the door with hot
water, to my great confusion.

To-day has been one long delight, coming to a magnificent climax on my arrival here. I gave
up my baggage to an hotel porter and set off to walk at once. I was somewhat confused as yet
as to my directions, for the station of course was new to me, and the hills had not sufficiently
opened out to let me recognise the peaks. Suddenly, as I was going forward slowly in this confusion
of mind, I was met by a great volley of odours out of the lemon and orange gardens, and the
past linked on to the present, and in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, the whole scene
fell before me into order, and I was at home. I nearly danced again.

I suppose I must send off this to-night to notify my arrival in safety and good-humour and,
I think, in good health, before relapsing into the old weekly vein. The Hôtel de Londres is
no more an hotel.

TO MRS. SITWELL,

     Menton, November 13, 1873.

I must pour out my disgust at the absence of a letter; my birthday nearly gone, and devil a
letter--I beg pardon. After all, now I think of it, it is only a week since I left.

I have here the nicest room in Mentone. Let me explain. Ah! there's the bell for the table
d'hôte. Now to see if there is anyone conversable within these walls.

In the interval my letters have come; none from you, but one from Bob, which both pained and
pleased me. He cannot get on without me at all, he writes; he finds that I have been the whole
world for him; that he only talked to other people in order that he might tell me afterwards
about the conversation. Should I--I really don't know quite what to feel; I am so much astonished,
and almost more astonished that he should have expressed it than that he should feel it; he
never would have said it, I know. I feel a strange sense of weight and responsibility.--Ever
your faithful friend, R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   In the latter part of this letter will be found the germ of the essay
   Ordered South.

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   The history of the scruples and ideas of duty in regard to money
   expressed in the following letter is set forth and further explained
   in retrospect in the fragment called Lay Morals, written in 1879.
   The Walt Whitman essay here mentioned is not that afterwards printed
   in Men and Books, but an earlier and more enthusiastic version. Mr.
   Dowson (of whom Stevenson lost sight after these Riviera days) was
   the father of the unfortunate poet Ernest Dowson. His acquaintance
   was the first result of Stevenson's search for "anyone conversable"
   in the hotel.

     Menton, Sunday [November 30, 1873].

MY DEAR FRIEND,--To-day is as hot as it has been in the sun; and as I was a little tired and
seedy, I went down and just drank in sunshine. A strong wind has risen out of the west; the
great big dead leaves from the roadside planes scuttled about and chased one another over the
gravel round me with a noise like little waves under the keel of a boat, and jumped up sometimes
on to my lap and into my face. I lay down on my back at last, and looked up into the sky. The
white corner of the hotel, with a wide projection at the top, stood out in dazzling relief;
and there was nothing else, save a few of the plane leaves that had got up wonderfully high
and turned and eddied and flew here and there like little pieces of gold leaf, to break the
extraordinary sea of blue. It was bluer than anything in the world here; wonderfully blue,
and looking deeply peaceful, although in truth there was a high wind blowing.

I am concerned about the plane leaves. Hitherto it has always been a great feature to see these
trees standing up head and shoulders and chest--head and body, in fact--above the wonderful
blue-grey-greens of the olives, in one glory of red gold. Much more of this wind, and the gold,
I fear, will be all spent.

9.20.--I must write you another little word. I have found here a new friend, to whom I grow
daily more devoted--George Sand. I go on from one novel to another and think the last I have
read the most sympathetic and friendly in tone, until I have read another. It is a life in
dreamland. Have you read Mademoiselle Merquem?

Monday.--I did not quite know last night what to say to you about Mlle. Merquem. If you want
to be unpleasantly moved, read it.

I am gloomy and out of spirits to-night in consequence of a ridiculous scene at the table d'hôte,
where a parson whom I rather liked took offence at something I said and we had almost a quarrel.
It was mopped up and stifled, like spilt wine with a napkin; but it leaves an unpleasant impression.

I have again ceased all work, because I felt that it strained my head a little, and so I have
resumed the tedious task of waiting with folded hands for better days. But thanks to George
Sand and the sunshine, I am very jolly.

That last word was so much out of key that I could sit no longer, and went away to seek out
my clergyman and apologise to him. He was gone to bed. I don't know what makes me take this
so much to heart. I suppose it's nerves or pride or something; but I am unhappy about it. I
am going to drown my sorrows in Consuelo and burn some incense in my pipe to the god of Contentment
and Forgetfulness.

I do not know, but I hope, if I can only get better, I shall be a help to you soon in every
way and no more a trouble and burthen. All my difficulties about life have so cleared away;
the scales have fallen from my eyes, and the broad road of my duty lies out straight before
me without cross or hindrance. I have given up all hope, all fancy rather, of making literature
my hold: I see that I have not capacity enough. My life shall be, if I can make it, my only
business. I am desirous to practise now, rather than to preach, for I know that I should ever
preach badly, and men can more easily forgive faulty practice than dull sermons. If Colvin
does not think that I shall be able to support myself soon by literature, I shall give it up
and go (horrible as the thought is to me) into an office of some sort: the first and main question
is, that I must live by my own hands; after that come the others.

You will not regard me as a madman, I am sure. It is a very rational aberration at least to
try to put your beliefs into practice. Strangely enough, it has taken me a long time to see
this distinctly with regard to my whole creed; but I have seen it at last, praised be my sickness
and my leisure! I have seen it at last; the sun of my duty has risen; I have enlisted for the
first time, and after long coquetting with the shilling, under the banner of the Holy Ghost![10]

8.15.--If you had seen the moon last night! It was like transfigured sunshine; as clear and
mellow, only showing everything in a new wonderful significance. The shadows of the leaves
on the road were so strangely black that Dowson and I had difficulty in believing that they
were not solid, or at least pools of dark mire. And the hills and the trees, and the white
Italian houses with lit windows! O! nothing could bring home to you the keenness and the reality
and the wonderful Unheimlichkeit of all these. When the moon rises every night over the Italian
coast, it makes a long path over the sea as yellow as gold.

How I happened to be out in the moonlight yesterday, was that Dowson and I spent the evening
with an odd man called Bates, who played Italian music to us with great feeling; all which
was quite a dissipation in my still existence.

Friday.--I cannot endure to be dependent much longer, it stops my mouth. Something I must find
shortly. I mean when I am able for anything. However I am much better already; and have been
writing not altogether my worst although not very well. Walt Whitman is stopped. I have bemired
it so atrociously by working at it when I was out of humour that I must let the colour dry;
and alas! what I have been doing in its place doesn't seem to promise any money. However it
is all practice and it interests myself extremely. I have now received £80, some £55 of which
still remain; all this is more debt to civilisation and my fellowmen. When shall I be able
to pay it back? You do not know how much this money question begins to take more and more importance
in my eyes every day. It is an old phrase of mine that money is the atmosphere of civilised
life, and I do hate to take the breath out of other people's nostrils. I live here at the rate
of more than £3 a week and I do nothing for it. If I didn't hope to get well and do good work
yet and more than repay my debts to the world, I should consider it right to invest an extra
franc or two in laudanum. But I will repay it.--Always your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO CHARLES BAXTER

     [Menton, December, 1873.]

MY DEAR BAXTER,--At last, I must write. I must say straight out that I am not recovering as
I could wish. I am no stronger than I was when I came here, and I pay for every walk, beyond
say a quarter of a mile in length, by one or two, or even three, days of more or less prostration.
Therefore let nobody be down upon me for not writing. I was very thankful to you for answering
my letter; and for the princely action of Simpson in writing to me, I mean before I had written
to him, I was ditto to an almost higher degree. I hope one or another of you will write again
soon; and, remember, I still live in hope of reading Grahame Murray's address.

I have not made a joke, upon my living soul, since I left London. O! except one, a very small
one, that I had made before, and that I very timidly repeated in a half-exhilarated state towards
the close of dinner, like one of those dead-alive flies that we see pretending to be quite
light and full of the frivolity of youth in the first sunshiny days. It was about mothers'
meetings, and it was damned small, and it was my ewe lamb--the Lord knows I couldn't have made
another to save my life--and a clergyman quarrelled with me, and there was as nearly an explosion
as could be. This has not fostered my leaning towards pleasantry. I felt that it was a very
cold, hard world that night.

My dear Charles, is the sky blue at Mentone? Was that your question? Well, it depends upon
what you call blue; it's a question of taste, I suppose. Is the sky blue? You poor critter,
you never saw blue sky worth being called blue in the same day with it. And I should rather
fancy that the sun did shine I should. And the moon doesn't shine either. O no! (This last
is sarcastic.) Mentone is one of the most beautiful places in the world, and has always had
a very warm corner in my heart since first I knew it eleven years ago.

11th December.--I live in the same hotel with Lord X. He has black whiskers, and has been successful
in raising some kids; rather a melancholy success; they are weedy looking kids in Highland
clo'. They have a tutor with them who respires Piety and that kind of humble your-lordship's-most-obedient
sort of gentlemanliness that noblemen's tutors have generally. They all get livings, these
men, and silvery hair and a gold watch from their attached pupil; and they sit in the porch
and make the watch repeat for their little grandchildren, and tell them long stories, beginning,
"When I was private tutor in the family of," etc., and the grandchildren cock snooks at them
behind their backs and go away whenever they can to get the groom to teach them bad words.

Sidney Colvin will arrive here on Saturday or Sunday; so I shall have someone to jaw with.
And, seriously, this is a great want. I have not been all these weeks in idleness, as you may
fancy, without much thinking as to my future; and I have a great deal in view that may or may
not be possible (that I do not yet know), but that is at least an object and a hope before
me. I cannot help recurring to seriousness a moment before I stop; for I must say that living
here a good deal alone, and having had ample time to look back upon my past, I have become
very serious all over. If I can only get back my health, by God! I shall not be as useless
as I have been.--Ever yours, mon vieux,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     [Menton, December, 1873], Sunday.

The first violet. There is more sweet trouble for the heart in the breath of this small flower
than in all the wines of all the vineyards of Europe. I cannot contain myself. I do not think
so small a thing has ever given me such a princely festival of pleasure. I feel as if my heart
were a little bunch of violets in my bosom; and my brain is pleasantly intoxicated with the
wonderful odour. I suppose I am writing nonsense, but it does not seem nonsense to me. Is it
not a wonderful odour? is it not something incredibly subtle and perishable? It is like a wind
blowing to one out of fairyland. No one need tell me that the phrase is exaggerated if I say
that this violet sings; it sings with the same voice as the March blackbird; and the same adorable
tremor goes through one's soul at the hearing of it.

Monday.--All yesterday I was under the influence of opium. I had been rather seedy during the
night and took a dose in the morning, and for the first time in my life it took effect upon
me. I had a day of extraordinary happiness; and when I went to bed there was something almost
terrifying in the pleasures that besieged me in the darkness. Wonderful tremors filled me;
my head swam in the most delirious but enjoyable manner; and the bed softly oscillated with
me, like a boat in a very gentle ripple. It does not make me write a good style apparently,
which is just as well, lest I should be tempted to renew the experiment; and some verses which
I wrote turn out on inspection to be not quite equal to Kubla Khan. However, I was happy, and
the recollection is not troubled by any reaction this morning.

Wednesday.--Do you know, I think I am much better. I really enjoy things, and I really feel
dull occasionally, neither of which was possible with me before; and though I am still tired
and weak, I almost think I feel a stirring among the dry bones. O, I should like to recover,
and be once more well and happy and fit for work! And then to be able to begin really to my
life; to have done, for the rest of time, with preluding and doubting; and to take hold of
the pillars strongly with Samson--to burn my ships with (whoever did it). O, I begin to feel
my spirits come back to me again at the thought!

Thursday.--I sat along the beach this morning under some reeds (or canes--I know not which
they are): everything was so tropical; nothing visible but the glaring white shingle, the blue
sea, the blue sky, and the green plumes of the canes thrown out against the latter some ten
or fifteen feet above my head. The noise of the surf alone broke the quiet. I had somehow got
Ueber allen Gipfeln ist Ruh into my head; and I was happy for I do not know how long, sitting
there and repeating to myself these lines. It is wonderful how things somehow fall into a full
satisfying harmony, and out of the fewest elements there is established a sort of small perfection.
It was so this morning. I did not want anything further.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   In the third week of December I went out to join my friend for a part
   of the Christmas vacation, and found him without tangible disease,
   but very weak and ailing: ill-health and anxiety, however, neither
   then nor at any time diminished his charm as a companion. He left
   Mentone to meet me at the old town of Monaco, where we spent a few
   days and from whence these stray notes of nature and human nature
   were written.

     Monaco, Tuesday [December 1873].

We have been out all day in a boat; lovely weather and almost dead calm, only the most infinitesimal
and indeterminate of oscillations moved us hither and thither; the sails were duly set, and
flapped about idly overhead. Our boatman was a man of a delightful humour, who told us many
tales of the sea, notably one of a doctor, who was an Englishman, and who seemed almost an
epitome of vices--drunken, dishonest, and utterly without faith; and yet he was a charmant
garçon. He told us many amusing circumstances of the doctor's incompetence and dishonesty,
and imitated his accent with a singular success. I couldn't quite see that he was a charming
garçon--"O, oui--comme caractère, un charmant garçon." We landed on that Cap Martin, the place
of firs and rocks and myrtle and rosemary of which I spoke to you. As we pulled along in the
fresh shadow, the wonderfully clean scents blew out upon us, as if from islands of spice--only
how much better than cloves and cinnamon!

Friday.--Colvin and I are sitting on a seat on the battlemented gardens of Old Monaco. The
day is grey and clouded, with a little red light on the horizon, and the sea, hundreds of feet
below us, is a sort of purple dove-colour. Shrub-geraniums, firs, and aloes cover all available
shelves and terraces, and where these become impossible, the prickly pear precipitates headlong
downwards its bunches of oval plates; so that the whole face of the cliff is covered with an
arrested fall (please excuse clumsy language), a sort of fall of the evil angels petrified
midway on its career. White gulls sail past below us every now and then, sometimes singly,
sometimes by twos and threes, and sometimes in a great flight. The sharp perfume of the shrub-geraniums
fills the air.

I cannot write, in any sense of the word; but I am as happy as can be, and wish to notify the
fact, before it passes. The sea is blue, grey, purple and green; very subdued and peaceful;
earlier in the day it was marbled by small keen specks of sun and larger spaces of faint irradiation;
but the clouds have closed together now, and these appearances are no more. Voices of children
and occasional crying of gulls; the mechanical noise of a gardener somewhere behind us in the
scented thicket; and the faint report and rustle of the waves on the precipice far below, only
break in upon the quietness to render it more complete and perfect.

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   After spending a few days in one of the more retired hotels of Monte
   Carlo, we went on to Mentone and settled at the Hotel Mirabeau, long
   since, I believe, defunct, near the eastern extremity of the town.
   The little American girl mentioned in the last paragraph is the same
   we shall meet later under her full name of Marie Johnstone.

     [Hotel Mirabeau, Menton], January 2nd, 1874.

Here I am over in the east bay of Mentone, where I am not altogether sorry to find myself.
I move so little that I soon exhaust the immediate neighbourhood of my dwelling places. Our
reason for coming here was however very simple. Hobson's choice. Mentone during my absence
has filled marvellously.

Continue to address P. R.[11] Menton; and try to conceive it as possible that I am not a drivelling
idiot. When I wish an address changed, it is quite on the cards that I shall be able to find
language explicit enough to express the desire. My whole desire is to avoid complication of
addresses. It is quite fatal. If two P. R.'s have contradictory orders they will continue to
play battledoor and shuttlecock with an unhappy epistle, which will never get farther afield
but perish there miserably.

You act too much on the principle that whatever I do is done unwisely; and that whatever I
do not, has been culpably forgotten. This is wounding to my nat'ral vanity.

I have not written for three days I think; but what days! They were very cold; and I must say
I was able thoroughly to appreciate the blessings of Mentone. Old Smoko this winter would evidently
have been very summary with me. I could not stand the cold at all. I exhausted all my own and
all Colvin's clothing; I then retired to the house, and then to bed; in a condition of sorrow
for myself unequalled. The sun is forth again (laus Deo) and the wind is milder, and I am greatly
re-established. A certain asperity of temper still lingers, however, which Colvin supports
with much mildness.

In this hotel, I have a room on the first floor! Luxury, however, is not altogether regardless
of expense. We only pay 13 francs per day--3-1/2 more than at the Pavillon on the third floor.--And
beggars must not be choosers. We were very nearly houseless, the night we came. And it is rarely
that such winds of adversity blow men into king's Palaces.

Looking over what has gone before, it seems to me that it is not strictly polite. I beg to
withdraw all that is offensive.

At table d'hôte, we have some people who amuse us much; two Americans, who would try to pass
for French people, and their daughter, the most charming of little girls. Both Colvin and I
have planned an abduction already. The whole hotel is devoted to her; and the waiters continually
do smuggle out comfits and fruit and pudding to her.

All well.--Ever your affectionate son,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   The M'Laren herein mentioned was of course the distinguished Scotch
   politician and social reformer, Duncan M'Laren, for sixteen years
   M.P. for Edinburgh.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   In the first week of January I went for some necessary work to Paris,
   with the intention of returning towards the end of the month. The
   following letter introduces the Russian sisters, Madame Zassetsky
   and Madame Garschine, whose society and that of their children was to
   do so much to cheer Stevenson during his remaining months on the
   Riviera. The French painter Robinet (sometimes in his day known as
   le Raphael des cailloux, from the minuteness of detail which he put
   into his Provençal coast landscapes) was a chivalrous and
   affectionate soul, in whom R. L. S. delighted in spite of his fervent
   clerical and royalist opinions. 8) and May
Johnstone (æt.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

     [Menton], Sunday, 11th January 1874.

In many ways this hotel is more amusing than the Pavillon. There are the children, to begin
with; and then there are games every evening--the stool of repentance, question and answer,
etc.; and then we speak French, although that is not exactly an advantage in so far as personal
brilliancy is concerned.

I am in lovely health again to-day: I-walked as far as the Pont St. Louis very nearly, besides
walking and knocking about among the olives in the afternoon. I do not make much progress with
my French; but I do make a little, I think. I was pleased with my success this evening, though
I do not know if others shared the satisfaction.

The two Russian ladies are from Georgia all the way. They do not at all answer to the description
of Georgian slaves however, being graceful and refined, and only good-looking after you know
them a bit.

Please remember me very kindly to the Jenkins, and thank them for having asked about me. Tell
Mrs. J. that I am engaged perfecting myself in the "Gallic idiom," in order to be a worthier
Vatel for the future. Monsieur Folleté, our host, is a Vatel by the way. He cooks himself,
and is not insensible to flattery on the score of his table. I began, of course, to complain
of the wine (part of the routine of life at Mentone); I told him that where one found a kitchen
so exquisite, one astonished oneself that the wine was not up to the same form. "Et voilà précisément
mon côté faible, monsieur," he replied, with an indescribable amplitude of gesture. "Que voulez-vous?
Moi, je suis cuisinier!" It was as though Shakespeare, called to account for some such peccadillo
as the Bohemian seaport, should answer magnificently that he was a poet. So Folleté lives in
a golden zone of a certain sort--a golden, or rather torrid zone, whence he issues twice daily
purple as to his face--and all these clouds and vapours and ephemeral winds pass far below
him and disturb him not.

He has another hobby however--his garden, round which it is his highest pleasure to lead the
unwilling guest. Whenever he is not in the kitchen, he is hanging round loose, seeking whom
he may show his garden to. Much of my time is passed in studiously avoiding him, and I have
brought the art to a very extreme pitch of perfection. The fox, often hunted, becomes wary.--Ever
your affectionate son,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     [Menton, January 1874], Wednesday.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--It is still so cold, I cannot tell you how miserable the weather is. I have
begun my "Walt Whitman" again seriously. Many winds have blown since I last laid it down, when
sickness took me in Edinburgh. It seems almost like an ill-considered jest to take up these
old sentences, written by so different a person under circumstances so different, and try to
string them together and organise them into something anyway whole and comely; it is like continuing
another man's book. Almost every word is a little out of tune to me now but I shall pull it
through for all that and make something that will interest you yet on this subject that I had
proposed to myself and partly planned already, before I left for Cockfield last July.

I am very anxious to hear how you are. My own health is quite very good; I am a healthy octogenarian;
very old, I thank you and of course not so active as a young man, but hale withal: a lusty
December. This is so; such is R. L. S.

I am a little bothered about Bob, a little afraid that he is living too poorly. The fellow
he chums with spends only two francs a day on food, with a little excess every day or two to
keep body and soul together, and though Bob is not so austere I am afraid he draws it rather
too fine himself.

Friday.--We have all got our photographs; it is pretty fair, they say, of me and as they are
particular in the matter of photographs, and besides partial judges I suppose I may take that
for proven. Of Nellie there is one quite adorable. The weather is still cold. My "Walt Whitman"
at last looks really well: I think it is going to get into shape in spite of the long gestation.

Sunday.--Still cold and grey, and a high imperious wind off the sea. I see nothing particularly
couleur de rose this morning: but I am trying to be faithful to my creed and hope. O yes, one
can do something to make things happier and better; and to give a good example before men and
show them how goodness and fortitude and faith remain undiminished after they have been stripped
bare of all that is formal and outside. We must do that; you have done it already; and I shall
follow and shall make a worthy life, and you must live to approve of me.

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   The following are two different impressions of the Mediterranean,
   dated on two different Mondays in  January:--

Yes, I am much better; very much better I think I may say. Although it is funny how I have
ceased to be able to write with the improvement of my health. Do you notice how for some time
back you have had no descriptions of anything? The reason is that I can't describe anything.
No words come to me when I see a thing. I want awfully to tell you to-day about a little "piece"
of green sea, and gulls, and clouded sky with the usual golden mountain-breaks to the southward.
It was wonderful, the sea near at hand was living emerald; the white breasts and wings of the
gulls as they circled above--high above even--were dyed bright green by the reflection. And
if you could only have seen or if any right word would only come to my pen to tell you how
wonderfully these illuminated birds floated hither and thither under the grey purples of the sky!

       *       *       *       *       *

To-day has been windy but not cold. The sea was troubled and had a fine fresh saline smell
like our own seas, and the sight of the breaking waves, and above all the spray that drove
now and again in my face, carried me back to storms that I have enjoyed, O how much! in other
places. Still (as Madame Zassetsky justly remarked) there is something irritating in a stormy
sea whose waves come always to the same spot and never farther: it looks like playing at passion:
it reminds one of the loathsome sham waves in a stage ocean.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

     [Menton, January 1874.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--I write to let you know that my cousin may possibly come to Paris before you
leave; he will likely look you up to hear about me, etc. I want to tell you about him before
you see him, as I am tired of people misjudging him. You know me now. Well, Bob is just such
another mutton, only somewhat farther wandered. He has all the same elements of character that
I have: no two people were ever more alike, only that the world has gone more unfortunately
for him although more evenly. Besides which, he is really a gentleman, and an admirable true
friend, which is not a common article. I write this as a letter of introduction in case he
should catch you ere you leave.

Monday.--No letters to-day. Sacré chien, Dieu de Dieu--and I have written with exemplary industry.
But I am hoping that no news is good news and shall continue so to hope until all is blue.--Ever
yours,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   It had been a very cold Christmas at Monaco and Monte Carlo, and
   Stevenson had no adequate overcoat, so it was agreed that when I went
   to Paris I should try and find him a warm cloak or wrap. I amused
   myself looking for one suited to his taste for the picturesque and
   piratical in apparel, and found one in the style of 1830-40, dark
   blue and flowing, and fastening with a snake buckle.

     [Menton, January 1874], Friday.

MY DEAR COLVIN,--Thank you very much for your note. This morning I am stupid again; can do
nothing at all; am no good "comme plumitif." I think it must be the cold outside. At least
that would explain my addled head and intense laziness.

O why did you tell me about that cloak? Why didn't you buy it? Isn't it in Julius Cæsar that
Pompey blames--no not Pompey but a friend of Pompey's--well, Pompey's friend, I mean the friend
of Pompey--blames somebody else who was his friend--that is who was the friend of Pompey's
friend--because he (the friend of Pompey's friend) had not done something right off, but had
come and asked him (Pompey's friend) whether he (the friend of Pompey's friend) ought to do
it or no? There I fold my hands with some complacency: that's a piece of very good narration.
I am getting into good form. These classical instances are always distracting. I was talking
of the cloak. It's awfully dear. Are there no cheap and nasty imitations? Think of that--if,
however, it were the opinion (ahem) of competent persons that the great cost of the mantle
in question was no more than proportionate to its durability; if it were to be a joy for ever;
if it would cover my declining years and survive me in anything like integrity for the comfort
of my executors; if--I have the word--if the price indicates (as it seems) the quality of perdurability
in the fabric; if, in fact, it would not be extravagant, but only the leariest economy to lay
out £5 .. 15 .. in a single mantle without seam and without price, and if--and if--it really
fastens with an agrafe--I would BUY it. But not unless. If not a cheap imitation would be the
move.--Ever yours,

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   The following is in answer to a set of numbered questions, of which
   the first three are of no general interest.

     [Menton], Monday, January 19th, 1874.

ANSWERS to a series of questions.

       *       *       *       *       *

4. Nelitchka, or Nelitska, as you know already by this time, is my adorable kid's name. Her
laugh does more good to one's health than a month at the seaside: as she said to-day herself,
when asked whether she was a boy or a girl, after having denied both with gravity, she is an angel.

5. O no, her brain is not in a chaos; it is only the brains of those who hear her. It is all
plain sailing for her. She wishes to refuse or deny anything, and there is the English "No
fank you" ready to her hand; she wishes to admire anything, and there is the German "schön";
she wishes to sew (which she does with admirable seriousness and clumsiness), and there is
the French "coudre"; she wishes to say she is ill, and there is the Russian "bulla"; she wishes
to be down on any one, and there is the Italian "Berecchino"; she wishes to play at a railway
train, and there is her own original word "Collie" (say the o with a sort of Gaelic twirl).
And all these words are equally good.

7. I am called M. Stevenson by everybody except Nelitchka, who calls me M. Berecchino.

8. The weather to-day is no end: as bright and as warm as ever. I have been out on the beach
all afternoon with the Russians. Madame Garschine has been reading Russian to me; and I cannot
tell prose from verse in that delectable tongue, which is a pity. Johnson came out to tell
us that Corsica was visible, and there it was over a white, sweltering sea, just a little darker
than the pallid blue of the sky, and when one looked at it closely, breaking up into sun-brightened
peaks.

I may mention that Robinet has never heard an Englishman with so little accent as I have--ahem--ahem--eh?--What
do you say to that? I don't suppose I have said five sentences in English to-day; all French;
all bad French, alas!

I am thought to be looking better. Madame Zassetsky said I was all green when I came here first,
but that I am all right in colour now, and she thinks fatter. I am very partial to the Russians;
I believe they are rather partial to me. I am supposed to be an esprit observateur! À mon age,
c'est étonnant comme je suis observateur!

The second volume of Clément Marot has come. Where and O where is the first?--Ever your affectionate

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   The Bottle here mentioned is a story that had been some time in
   hand called The Curate of Anstruther's Bottle; afterwards abandoned
   like so many early attempts of the same kind.

     [Menton, January 1874.]

MY DEAR S. C.,--I suppose this will be my last note then. I think you will find everything
very jolly here, I am very jolly myself. I worked six hours to-day. I am occupied in transcribing
The Bottle, which is pleasant work to me; I find much in it that I still think excellent and
much that I am doubtful about; my convention is so terribly difficult that I have to put out
much that pleases me, and much that I still preserve I only preserve with misgiving. I wonder
if my convention is not a little too hard and too much in the style of those decadent curiosities,
poems without the letter E, poems going with the alphabet and the like. And yet the idea, if
rightly understood and treated as a convention always and not as an abstract principle, should
not so much hamper one as it seems to do. The idea is not, of course, to put in nothing but
what would naturally have been noted and remembered and handed down, but not to put in anything
that would make a person stop and say--how could this be known? Without doubt it has the advantage
of making one rely on the essential interest of a situation and not cocker up and validify
feeble intrigue with incidental fine writing and scenery, and pyrotechnic exhibitions of inappropriate
cleverness and sensibility. I remember Bob once saying to me that the quadrangle of Edinburgh
University was a good thing and our having a talk as to how it could be employed in different
arts. I then stated that the different doors and staircases ought to be brought before a reader
of a story not by mere recapitulation but by the use of them, by the descent of different people
one after another by each of them. And that the grand feature of shadow and the light of the
one lamp in the corner should also be introduced only as they enabled people in the story to
see one another or prevented them. And finally that whatever could not thus be worked into
the evolution of the action had no right to be commemorated at all. After all, it is a story
you are telling; not a place you are to describe; and everything that does not attach itself
to the story is out of place.

This is a lecture not a letter, and it seems rather like sending coals to Newcastle to write
a lecture to a subsidised professor. I hope you have seen Bob by this time. I know he is anxious
to meet you and I am in great anxiety to know what you think of his prospects--frankly, of
course: as for his person, I don't care a damn what you think of it: I am case-hardened in
that matter.

I wrote a French note to Madame Zassetsky the other day, and there were no errors in it. The
complete Gaul, as you may see.--Ever yours,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

     R. L. S.

TO THOMAS STEVENSON

     [Menton], Monday, January 26th, 1874.

MY DEAR FATHER,--Heh! Heh! business letter finished. Receipt acknowledged without much ado,
and I think with a certain commercial decision and brevity. The signature is good but not original.

I should rather think I had lost my heart to the wee princess. Her mother demanded the other
day "À quand les noces?" which Mrs. Stevenson will translate for you in case you don't see
it yourself.

I had a political quarrel last night with the American; it was a real quarrel for about two
minutes; we relieved our feelings and separated; but a mutual feeling of shame led us to a
most moving reconciliation, in which the American vowed he would shed his best blood for England.
In looking back upon the interview, I feel that I have learned something; I scarcely appreciated
how badly England had behaved, and how well she deserves the hatred the Americans bear her.
It would have made you laugh if you could have been present and seen your unpatriotic son thundering
anathemas in the moonlight against all those that were not the friend of England. Johnson being
nearly as nervous as I, we were both very ill after it, which added a further pathos to the
reconciliation.

There is no good in sending this off to-day, as I have sent another letter this morning already.

O, a remark of the Princess's amused me the other day. Somebody wanted to give Nelitchka garlic
as a medicine. "Quoi? Une petite amour comme ça, qu'on ne pourrait pas baiser? Il n'y a pas
de sens en cela!"

Marot vol. 1 arrived. The post has been at its old games. A letter of the 31st and one of the
2nd arrive at the same moment.

I have had a great pleasure. Mrs. Andrews had a book of Scotch airs, which I brought over here,
and set Madame Z. to work upon. They are so like Russian airs that they cannot contain their
astonishment. I was quite out of my mind with delight. "The Flowers of the Forest"--"Auld Lang
Syne"--"Scots wha hae"--"Wandering Willie"--"Jock o' Hazeldean"--"My Boy Tammie," which my
father whistles so often--I had no conception how much I loved them. The air which pleased
Madame Zassetsky the most was "Hey, Johnnie Cope, are ye waukin yet?" It is certainly no end.
And I was so proud that they were appreciated. No triumph of my own, I am sure, could ever
give me such vain-glorious satisfaction. You remember, perhaps, how conceited I was to find
"Auld Lang Syne" popular in its German dress; but even that was nothing to the pleasure I had
yesterday at the success of our dear airs.

The edition is called The Songs of Scotland without Words for the Pianoforte, edited by J.
T. Surenne, published by Wood in George Street. As these people have been so kind to me, I
wish you would get a copy of this and send it out. If that should be too dear, or anything,
Mr. Mowbray would be able to tell you what is the best substitute, would he not? This I really
would like you to do, as Madame proposes to hire a copyist to copy those she likes, and so
it is evident she wants them.--Ever your affectionate son,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO THOMAS STEVENSON

   With reference to the political allusions in the following it will be
   remembered that this was the date of Mr. Gladstone's dissolution,
   followed by his defeat at the polls notwithstanding his declared
   intention of abolishing the income-tax.

     [Menton], February 1st, 1874.

I am so sorry to hear of poor Mr. M.'s death. He was really so amiable and kind that no one
could help liking him, and carrying away a pleasant recollection of his simple, happy ways.
I hope you will communicate to all the family how much I feel with them.

Madame Zassetsky is Nelitchka's mamma. They have both husbands, and they are in Russia, and
the ladies are both here for their health. They make it very pleasant for me here. To-day we
all went a drive to the Cap Martin, and the Cap was adorable in the splendid sunshine.

I read J. H. A. Macdonald's speech with interest; his sentiments are quite good, I think. I
would support him against M'Laren at once. What has disgusted me most as yet about this election
is the detestable proposal to do away with the income tax. Is there no shame about the easy
classes? Will those who have nine hundred and ninety-nine thousandths of the advantage of our
society, never consent to pay a single tax unless it is to be paid also by those who have to
bear the burthen and heat of the day, with almost none of the reward? And the selfishness here
is detestable, because it is so deliberate. A man may not feel poverty very keenly and may
live a quiet self-pleasing life in pure thoughtlessness; but it is quite another matter when
he knows thoroughly what the issues are, and yet wails pitiably because he is asked to pay
a little more, even if it does fall hardly sometimes, than those who get almost none of the
benefit. It is like the healthy child crying because they do not give him a goody, as they
have given to his sick brother to take away the taste of the dose. I have not expressed myself
clearly; but for all that, you ought to understand, I think.

Friday, February 6th.--The wine has arrived, and a dozen of it has been transferred to me;
it is much better than Folleté's stuff. We had a masquerade last night at the Villa Marina;
Nellie in a little red satin cap, in a red satin suit of boy's clothes, with a funny little
black tail that stuck out behind her, and wagged as she danced about the room, and gave her
a look of Puss in Boots; Pella as a contadina; Monsieur Robinet as an old woman, and Mademoiselle
as an old lady with blue spectacles.

Yesterday we had a visit from one of whom I had often heard from Mrs. Sellar--Andrew Lang.
He is good-looking, delicate, Oxfordish, etc.

My cloak is the most admirable of all garments. For warmth, unequalled; for a sort of pensive,
Roman stateliness, sometimes warming into Romantic guitarism, it is simply without concurrent;
it starts alone. If you could see me in my cloak, it would impress you. I am hugely better,
I think: I stood the cold these last few days without trouble, instead of taking to bed, as
I did at Monte Carlo. I hope you are going to send the Scotch music.

I am stupid at letter-writing again; I don't know why. I hope it may not be permanent; in the
meantime, you must take what you can get and be hopeful.

Last night we had a masquerade at the Villa Marina. Pella was dressed as a contadina and looked
beautiful; and little Nellie, in red satin cap and wonderful red satin jacket and little breeches
as of a nondescript impossible boy; to which Madame Garschine had slily added a little black
tail that wagged comically behind her as she danced about the room, and got deliriously tilted
up over the middle bar of the back of her chair as she sat at tea, with an irresistible suggestion
of Puss in Boots--well, Nellie thus masqueraded (to get back to my sentence again) was all
that I could have imagined. She held herself so straight and stalwart, and had such an infinitesimal
dignity of carriage; and then her big baby face, already quite definitely marked with her sex,
came in so funnily atop that she got clear away from all my power of similes and resembled
nothing in the world but Nellie in masquerade. Then there was Robinet in a white night gown,
old woman's cap (mutch, in my vernacular), snuff-box and crutch doubled up and yet leaping
and gyrating about the floor with incredible agility; and lastly, Mademoiselle in a sort of
elderly walking-dress and with blue spectacles. And all this incongruous impossible world went
tumbling and dancing and going hand in hand, in flying circles to the music; until it was enough
to make one forget one was in this wicked world, with Conservative majorities and Presidents
MacMahon and all other abominations about one.

Also last night will be memorable to me for another reason, Madame Zassetsky having given me
a light as to my own intellect. They were talking about things in history remaining in their
minds because they had assisted them to generalisations. And I began to explain how things
remained in my mind yet more vividly for no reason at all. She got interested, and made me
give her several examples; then she said, with her little falsetto of discovery, "Mais c'est
que vous êtes tout simplement enfant!" This mot I have reflected on at leisure and there is
some truth in it. Long may I be so. Yesterday too I finished Ordered South and at last had
some pleasure and contentment with it. S. C. has sent it off to Macmillan's this morning and
I hope it may be accepted; I don't care whether it is or no except for the all-important lucre;
the end of it is good, whether the able editor sees it or no.--Ever your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

     [Menton], February 22nd, 1874.

MY DEAR MOTHER,--I am glad to hear you are better again: nobody can expect to be quite well
in February, that is the only consolation I can offer you.

Madame Garschine is ill, I am sorry to say, and was confined to bed all yesterday, which made
a great difference to our little society. À propos of which, what keeps me here is just precisely
the said society. These people are so nice and kind and intelligent, and then as I shall never
see them any more I have a disagreeable feeling about making the move. With ordinary people
in England, you have more or less chance of re-encountering one another; at least you may see
their death in the papers; but with these people, they die for me and I die for them when we
separate.

Andrew Lang, O you of little comprehension, called on Colvin.

You had not told me before about the fatuous person who thought Roads like Ruskin--surely the
vaguest of contemporaneous humanity.

MY DEAR MOTHER,--The weather is again beautiful, soft, warm, cloudy and soft again, in provincial
sense. Very interesting, I find Robertson; and Dugald Stewart's life of him a source of unquenchable
laughter. Dugald Stewart is not much better than M^cCrie,[12] and puts me much in mind of him.
By the way, I want my father to find out whether any more of Knox's Works was ever issued than
the five volumes, as I have them. There are some letters that I am very anxious to see, not
printed in any of the five, and perhaps still in MS.

I suppose you are now home again in Auld Reekie: that abode of bliss does not much attract
me yet a bit.

Colvin leaves at the end of this week, I fancy.

How badly yours sincerely writes. O! Madame Zassetsky has a theory that "Dumbarton Drums" is
an epitome of my character and talents. She plays it, and goes into ecstasies over it, taking
everybody to witness that each note, as she plays it, is the moral of Berecchino. Berecchino
is my stereotype name in the world now. I am announced as M. Berecchino; a German hand-maiden
came to the hotel, the other night, asking for M. Berecchino; said hand-maiden supposing in
good faith that sich was my name.

Your letter come. O, I am all right now about the parting, because it will not be death, as
we are to write.

We have all been getting photographed, and the proofs are to be seen to-day. How they will
look I know not. Madame Zassetsky arranged me for mine, and then said to the photographer:
"C'est mon fils. Il vient d'avoir dix-neuf ans. Il est tout fier de sa jeune moustache. Tâchez
de la faire paraître," and then bolted leaving me solemnly alone with the artist. The artist
was quite serious, and explained that he would try to "faire ressortir ce que veut Madame la
Princesse" to the best of his ability; he bowed very much to me, after this, in quality of
Prince you see. I bowed in return and handled the flap of my cloak after the most princely
fashion I could command.--Ever your affectionate son,

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

     [Menton], March 20, 1874.

I. My Cloak.--An exception occurs to me to the frugality described a letter (or may be two)
ago; my cloak: it would certainly have been possible to have got something less expensive;
still it is a fine thought for absent parents that their son possesses simply THE GREATEST
vestment in Mentone. It is great in size, and unspeakably great in design; qua raiment, it
has not its equal.

III. About Spain.--Well, I don't know about me and Spain. I am certainly in no humour and in
no state of health for voyages and travels. Towards the end of May (see end), up to which time
I seem to see my plans, I might be up to it, or I might not; I think not myself. I have given
up all idea of going on to Italy, though it seems a pity when one is so near; and Spain seems
to me in the same category. But for all that, it need not interfere with your voyage thither:
I would not lose the chance, if I wanted.

IV. Money.--I am much obliged. That makes £180 now. This money irks me, one feels it more than
when living at home. However, if I have health, I am in a fair way to make a bit of a livelihood
for myself. Now please don't take this up wrong; don't suppose I am thinking of the transaction
between you and me; I think of the transaction between me and mankind. I think of all this
money wasted in keeping up a structure that may never be worth it--all this good money sent
after bad. I shall be seriously angry if you take me up wrong.

V. Roads.--The familiar false concord is not certainly a form of colloquialism that I should
feel inclined to encourage. It is very odd; I wrote it very carefully, and you seem to have
read it very carefully, and yet none of us found it out. The Deuce is in it.

VI. Russian Prince.--A cousin of these ladies is come to stay with them--Prince Léon Galitzin.
He is the image of--whom?--guess now--do you give it up?--Hillhouse.

VII. Miscellaneous.--I send you a pikler of me in the cloak. I think it is like a hunchback.
The moustache is clearly visible to the naked eye--O diable! what do I hear in my lug? A mosquito--the
first of the season. Bad luck to him!

Good nicht and joy be wi' you a'. I am going to bed.--Ever your affectionate son,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Note to III.--I had counted on being back at Embro' by the last week or so of May.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   This describes another member of the Russian party, recently arrived
   at Mentone, who did his best, very nearly with success, to persuade
   Stevenson to join him in the study of law for some terms under the
   celebrated Professor Jhering at Göttingen.

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     [Menton, April 1874], Monday.

My last night at Mentone. I cannot tell how strange and sad I feel. I leave behind me a dear
friend whom I have but little hope of seeing again between the eyes.

To-day, I hadn't arranged all my plans till five o'clock: I hired a poor old cabman, whose
uncomfortable vehicle and sorry horse make everyone despise him, and set off to get money and
say farewells. It was a dark misty evening; the mist was down over all the hills; the peach-trees
in beautiful pink bloom. Arranged my plans; that merits a word by the way if I can be bothered.
I have half arranged to go to Göttingen in summer to a course of lectures. Galitzin is responsible
for this. He tells me the professor is to law what Darwin has been to Natural History, and
I should like to understand Roman Law and a knowledge of law is so necessary for all I hope to do.

My poor old cabman; his one horse made me three-quarters of an hour too late for dinner, but
I had not the heart to discharge him and take another. Poor soul, he was so pleased with his
pourboire, I have made Madame Zassetsky promise to employ him often; so he will be something
the better for me, little as he will know it.

I have read Ordered South; it is pretty decent I think, but poor, stiff, limping stuff at best--not
half so well straightened up as Roads. However the stuff is good.

God help us all, this is a rough world: address Hotel St. Romain, rue St. Roch, Paris. I draw
the line: a chapter finished.--Ever your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

The line.

That bit of childishness has made me laugh, do you blame me?

FOOTNOTES:

  [7] See Scott himself, in the preface to the Author's edition.

  [8] i.e. on his book, The Reign of Law.

  [9] Compare the paragraph in Ordered South describing the state of
    mind of the invalid doubtful of recovery, and ending: "He will pray
    for Medea; when she comes, let her either rejuvenate or slay."

  [10] Alluding to Heine's Ritter von dem heiligen Geist.

  [11] Poste Restante

  [12] Thomas M^cCrie, D.D., author of the Life of John Knox, Life
    of Andrew Melville, etc.

III

STUDENT DAYS--Concluded

HOME AGAIN--LITERATURE AND LAW

MAY 1874--JUNE 1875

Returning to Edinburgh by way of Paris in May 1874, Stevenson went to live with his parents
at Swanston and Edinburgh and resumed his reading for the Bar. Illness and absence had done
their work, and the old harmony of the home was henceforth quite re-established. In his spare
time during the next year he worked hard at his chosen art, trying his hand at essays, short
stories, criticisms, and prose poems. In all this experimental writing he had neither the aims
nor the facility of the journalist, but strove always after the higher qualities of literature,
and was never satisfied with what he had done. To find for all he had to say words of vital
aptness and animation--to communicate as much as possible of what he has somewhere called "the
incommunicable thrill of things"--was from the first his endeavour in literature, nay more,
it was the main passion of his life: and the instrument that should serve his purpose could
not be forged in haste. Neither was it easy for this past master of the random, the unexpected,
the brilliantly back-foremost and topsy-turvy in talk, to learn in writing the habit of orderly
arrangement and organic sequence which even the lightest forms of literature cannot lack.

In the course of this summer Stevenson's excursions included a week or two spent with me at
Hampstead, during which he joined the Savile Club and made some acquaintance with London literary
society; a yachting trip with his friend Sir Walter Simpson in the western islands of Scotland;
a journey to Barmouth and Llandudno with his parents; and in the late autumn a walking tour
in Buckinghamshire. The Scottish winter (1874-75) tried him severely, as Scottish winters always
did, but was enlivened by a new and what was destined to be a very fruitful and intimate friendship,
the origin of which was described in the following letters, namely that of Mr. W. E. Henley.
In April 1875 he made his first visit, in the company of his cousin R. A. M. Stevenson to the
artist haunts of the forest of Fontainebleau, whence he returned to finish his reading for
the Scottish Bar and face the examination which was before him in July. During all this year,
as will be seen, his chief, almost his exclusive, correspondents and confidants continued to
be the same as in the preceding winter.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   Written in Paris on his way home to Edinburgh. Some of our talk at
   Mentone had run on the scheme of a spectacle play on the story of the
   burning of the temple of Diana at Ephesus by Herostratus, the type of
   insane vanity in excelsis.

     [Hôtel St. Romain, Paris, end of April 1874.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--I am a great deal better, but still have to take care. I have got quite a
lot of Victor Hugo done; and not I think so badly: pitching into this work has straightened
me up a good deal. It is the devil's own weather but that is a trifle. I must know when Cornhill
must see it. I can send some of it in a week easily, but I still have to read The Laughing
Man,[13] and I mean to wait until I get to London and have the loan of that from you. If I
buy anything more this production will not pay itself. The first part is not too well written,
though it has good stuff in it.

My people have made no objection to my going to Göttingen; but my body has made I think very
strong objections. And you know if it is cold here, it must be colder there. It is a sore pity;
that was a great chance for me and it is gone. I know very well that between Galitzin and this
swell professor I should have become a good specialist in law and how that would have changed
and bettered all my work it is easy to see; however I must just be content to live as I have
begun, an ignorant, chic-y penny-a-liner. May the Lord have mercy on my soul!

Going home not very well is an astonishing good hold for me. I shall simply be a prince.

Have you had any thought about Diana of the Ephesians? I will straighten up a play for you,
but it may take years. A play is a thing just like a story, it begins to disengage itself and
then unrolls gradually in block. It will disengage itself some day for me and then I will send
you the nugget and you will see if you can make anything out of it.--Ever yours,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   This and the following letters were written after Stevenson's return
   to Scotland. The essay Ordered South appeared in Macmillan's
   Magazine at this date; that on Victor Hugo's romances in the Cornhill
   a little later.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   Mr. John Morley had asked for a notice by R. L. S. for the
   Fortnightly Review, which he was then editing, of Lord Lytton's newly
   published volume, Fables in Song.

     Swanston, Lothianburn, Edinburgh [May 1874].

All right. I'll see what I can do. Before I could answer I had to see the book; and my good
father, after trying at all our libraries, bought it for me. I like the book; that is some
of it and I'll try to lick up four or five pages for the Fortnightly.

It is still as cold as cold, hereaway. And the Spring hammering away at the New Year in despite.
Poor Spring, scattering flowers with red hands and preparing for Summer's triumphs all in a
shudder herself. Health still good, and the humour for work enduring.

Jenkin wrote to say he would second me in such a kind little notelet. I shall go in for it
(the Savile I mean) whether Victor Hugo is accepted or not, being now a man of means. Have
I told you by the way that I have now an income of £84, or as I prefer to put it for dignity's
sake, two thousand one hundred francs, a year.

Friday.--"My dear Stevenson how do you do? do you annoying yourself or no? when we go to the
Olivses it allways rememberse us you. Nelly and my aunt went away. And when the organ come
and play the Soldaten it mak us think of Nelly. It is so sad I allmoste went away. I make my
baths; and then we go to Franzensbad; will you come to see us?"

There is Pella's letter facsimile, punctuation, spelling and all. Mme. Garschine's was rather
sad and gave me the blues a bit; I think it very likely I may run over to Franzensbad for a
week or so this autumn, if I am wanted that is to say: I shall be able to afford it easily.

I have got on rather better with the Fables; perhaps it won't be a failure, though I fear.
To-day the sun shone brightly although the wind was cold: I was up the hill a good time. It
is very solemn to see the top of one hill steadfastly regarding you over the shoulder of another:
I never before to-day fully realised the haunting of such a gigantic face, as it peers over
into a valley and seems to command all corners. I had a long talk with the shepherd about foreign
lands, and sheep. A Russian had once been on the farm as a pupil; he told me that he had the
utmost pity for the Russian's capacities, since (dictionary and all) he had never managed to
understand him; it must be remembered that my friend the shepherd spoke Scotch of the broadest
and often enough employs words which I do not understand myself.

     R. L. S.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   Enclosing Mr. Leslie Stephen's letter accepting the article on Victor
   Hugo: the first of Stevenson's many contributions to the Cornhill
   Magazine.

     [Edinburgh, May 1874.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--I send you L. Stephen's letter which is certainly very kind and jolly to get[14].
I wrote some stuff about Lord Lytton, but I had not the heart to submit it to you. I sent it
direct to Morley, with a Spartan billet. God knows it is bad enough; but it cost me labour
incredible. I was so out of the vein, it would have made you weep to see me digging the rubbish
out of my seven wits with groanings unutterable. I certainly mean to come to London, and likely
before long if all goes well; so on that ground, I cannot force you to come to Scotland. Still,
the weather is now warm and jolly, and of course it would not be expensive to live here so
long as that did not bore you. If you could see the hills out of my window to-night, you would
start incontinent. However do as you will, and if the mountain will not come to Mahomet Mahomet
will come to the mountain in due time, Mahomet being me and the mountain you, Q.E.D., F.R.S.--Ever
yours,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Sunday.--The white mist has obliterated the hills and lies heavily round the cottage, as though
it were laying siege to it; the trees wave their branches in the wind, with a solemn melancholy
manner, like people swaying themselves to and fro in pain. I am alone in the house, all the
world being gone to church; and even in here at the side of the fire, the air clings about
one like a wet blanket. Yet this morning, when I was just awake, I had thought it was going
to be a fine day. First, a cock crew, loudly and beautifully and often; then followed a long
interval of silence and darkness, the grey morning began to get into my room; and then from
the other side of the garden, a blackbird executed one long flourish, and in a moment as if
a spring had been touched or a sluice-gate opened, the whole garden just brimmed and ran over
with bird-songs.--Ever your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   For a part of June Stevenson had come south, spending most of his
   time in lodgings with me at Hampstead (where he got the idea for part
   of his essay Notes on the Movements of Young Children) and making
   his first appearance at the Savile Club. Trouble awaited him after
   his return.

     [Swanston, June 1874], Wednesday.

News reaches me that Bob is laid down with diphtheria; and you know what that means.

Night.--I am glad to say that I have on the whole a good account of Bob and I do hope he may
pull through in spite of all. I went down and saw the doctor; but it is not thought right that
I should go in to see him in case of contagion: you know it is a very contagious malady.

Thursday.--It is curious how calm I am in such a case. I wait with perfect composure for farther
news; I can do nothing; why should I disturb myself? And yet if things go wrong I shall be
in a fine way I can tell you.

How curiously we are built up into our false positions. The other day, having toothache and
the black dog on my back generally, I was rude to one of the servants at the dinner-table.
And nothing of course can be more disgusting than for a man to speak harshly to a young woman
who will lose her place if she speak back to him; and of course I determined to apologise.
Well, do you know, it was perhaps four days before I found courage enough, and I felt as red
and ashamed as could be. Why? because I had been rude? not a bit of it; because I was doing
a thing that would be called ridiculous in thus apologising. I did not know I had so much respect
of middle-class notions before; this is my right hand which I must cut off. Hold the arm please:
once--twice--thrice: the offensive member is amputated: let us hope I shall never be such a
cad any more as to be ashamed of being a gentleman.

Night.--I suppose I must have been more affected than I thought; at least I found I could not
work this morning and had to go out. The whole garden was filled with a high westerly wind,
coming straight out of the hills and richly scented with furze--or whins, as we would say.
The trees were all in a tempest and roared like a heavy surf; the paths all strewn with fallen
apple-blossom and leaves. I got a quiet seat behind a yew and went away into a meditation.
I was very happy after my own fashion, and whenever there came a blink of sunshine or a bird
whistled higher than usual, or a little powder of white apple-blossom came over the hedge and
settled about me in the grass, I had the gladdest little flutter at my heart and stretched
myself for very voluptuousness. I wasn't altogether taken up with my private pleasures, however,
and had many a look down ugly vistas in the future, for Bob and others. But we must all be
content and brave, and look eagerly for these little passages of happiness by the wayside,
and go on afterwards, savouring them under the tongue.

Friday.--Our garden has grown beautiful at last, beautiful with fresh foliage and daisied grass.
The sky is still cloudy and the day perhaps even a little gloomy; but under this grey roof,
in this shaded temperate light, how delightful the new summer is.

When I shall come to London must always be problematical like all my movements, and of course
this sickness of Bob's makes it still more uncertain. If all goes well I may have to go to
the country and take care of him in his convalescence. But I shall come shortly. Do not hurry
to write to me; I had rather you had ten minutes more of good, friendly sleep, than I a longer
letter; and you know I am rather partial to your letters. Yesterday, by the bye, I received
the proof of Victor Hugo; it is not nicely written, but the stuff is capital, I think. Modesty
is my most remarkable quality, I may remark in passing.

1.30.--I was out, behind the yew hedge, reading the Comtesse de Rudolstadt when I found my
eyes grow weary, and looked up from the book. O the rest of the quiet greens and whites, of
the daisied surface! I was very peaceful, but it began to sprinkle rain and so I fain to come
in for a moment and chat with you. By the way, I must send you Consuelo; you said you had quite
forgotten it if I remember aright; and surely a book that could divert me, when I thought myself
on the very edge of the grave, from the work that I so much desired and was yet unable to do,
and from many painful thoughts, should somewhat support and amuse you under all the hard things
that may be coming upon you. If you should wonder why I am writing to you so voluminously,
know that it is because I am not suffering myself to work, and in idleness, as in death, etc.

Saturday.--I have had a very cruel day. I heard this morning that yesterday Bob had been very
much worse and I went down to Portobello with all sorts of horrible presentiments. I was glad
when I turned the corner and saw the blinds still up. He was definitely better, if the word
definitely can be used about such a detestably insidious complaint. I have ordered Consuelo
for you, and you should have it soon this week; I mean next week of course; I am thinking when
you will receive this letter, not of now when I am writing it.

I am so tired; but I am very hopeful. All will be well some time, if it be only when we are
dead. One thing I see so clearly. Death is the end neither of joy nor sorrow. Let us pass into
the clods and come up again as grass and flowers; we shall still be this wonderful, shrinking,
sentient matter--we shall still thrill to the sun and grow relaxed and quiet after rain, and
have all manner of pains and pleasures that we know not of now. Consciousness, and ganglia,
and suchlike, are after all but theories. And who knows? This God may not be cruel when all
is done; he may relent and be good to us à la fin des fins. Think of how he tempers our afflictions
to us, of how tenderly he mixes in bright joys with the grey web of trouble and care that we
call our life. Think of how he gives, who takes away. Out of the bottom of the miry clay I
write this; and I look forward confidently; I have faith after all; I believe, I hope, I will
not have it reft from me; there is something good behind it all, bitter and terrible as it
seems. The infinite majesty (as it will be always in regard to us the bubbles of an hour) the
infinite majesty must have moments, if it were no more, of greatness; must sometimes be touched
with a feeling for our infirmities, must sometimes relent and be clement to those frail playthings
that he has made, and made so bitterly alive. Must it not be so, my dear friend, out of the
depths I cry? I feel it, now when I am most painfully conscious of his cruelty. He must relent.
He must reward. He must give some indemnity, if it were but in the quiet of a daisy, tasting
of the sun and the soft rain and the sweet shadow of trees, for all the dire fever that he
makes us bear in this poor existence. We make too much of this human life of ours. It may be
that two clods together, two flowers together, two grown trees together touching each other
deliciously with their spread leaves, it may be that these dumb things have their own priceless
sympathies, surer and more untroubled than ours.

I don't know quite whether I have wandered. Forgive me, I feel as if I had relieved myself;
so perhaps it may not be unpleasant for you either.--Believe me, ever your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL,

     Swanston, Sunday (June 1874).

DEAR FRIEND,--I fear to have added something to your troubles by telling you of the grief in
which I find myself; but one cannot always come to meet a friend smiling, although we should
try for the best cheer possible. All to-day I have been very weary, resting myself after the
trouble and fatigue of yesterday. The day was warm enough, but it blew a whole gale of wind;
and the noise and the purposeless rude violence of it somehow irritated and depressed me. There
was good news however, though the anxiety must still be long. O peace, peace, whither are you
fled and where have you carried my old quiet humour? I am so bitter and disquiet and speak
even spitefully to people. And somehow, though I promise myself amendment, day after day finds
me equally rough and sour to those about me. But this would pass with good health and good
weather; and at bottom I am not unhappy; the soil is still good although it bears thorns; and
the time will come again for flowers.

Wednesday.--I got your letter this morning and have to thank you so much for it. Bob is much
better; and I do hope out of danger. To-day has been more glorious than I can tell you. It
has been the first day of blue sky that we have had; and it was happiness for a week to see
the clear bright outline of the hills and the glory of sunlit foliage and the darkness of green
shadows, and the big white clouds that went voyaging overhead deliberately. My two cousins
from Portobello were here; and they and I and Maggie ended the afternoon by lying half an hour
together on a shawl. The big cloud had all been carded out into a thin luminous white gauze,
miles away; and miles away too seemed the little black birds that passed between this and us
as we lay with faces upturned. The similarity of what we saw struck in us a curious similarity
of mood; and in consequence of the small size of the shawl, we all lay so close that we half
pretended, half felt, we had lost our individualities and had become merged and mixed up in
a quadruple existence. We had the shadow of an umbrella over ourselves, and when any one reached
out a brown hand into the golden sunlight overhead we all feigned that we did not know whose
hand it was, until at last I don't really think we quite did. Little black insects also passed
over us and in the same half wanton manner we pretended we could not distinguish them from
the birds. There was a splendid sunlit silence about us, and as Katharine said the heavens
seemed to be dropping oil on us, or honey-dew--it was all so bland.

Thursday evening.--I have seen Bob again, and I am charmed at his convalescence. Le bon Dieu
has been so bon this time: here's his health! Still the danger is not over by a good way; it
is so miserable a thing for reverses.

I hear the wind outside roaring among our leafy trees as the surf on some loud shore. The hill-top
is whelmed in a passing rain-shower and the mist lies low in the valleys. But the night is
warm and in our little sheltered garden it is fair and pleasant, and the borders and hedges
and evergreens and boundary trees are all distinct in an equable diffusion of light from the
buried moon and the day not altogether passed away. My dear friend, as I hear the wind rise
and die away in that tempestuous world of foliage, I seem to be conscious of I know not what
breath of creation. I know what this warm wet wind of the west betokens, I know how already,
in this morning's sunshine, we could see all the hills touched and accentuated with little
delicate golden patches of young fern; how day by day the flowers thicken and the leaves unfold;
how already the year is a-tip-toe on the summit of its finished youth; and I am glad and sad
to the bottom of my heart at the knowledge. If you knew how different I am from what I was
last year; how the knowledge of you has changed and finished me, you would be glad and sad
also.--Ever your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   The strain of anxiety recorded in the two last letters had given a
   shake to Stevenson's own health, and it was agreed that he should go
   for a yachting tour with Sir Walter Simpson in the Inner Hebrides.

     [Edinburgh, June 1874], Thursday.

I have been made so miserable by Chopin's Marche funèbre. Try two of Schubert's songs, "Ich
unglückselige Atlas" and "Du schönes Fischermädchen"--they are very jolly. I have read aloud
my death-cycle from Walt Whitman this evening. I was very much affected myself, never so much
before, and it fetched the auditory considerable. Reading these things that I like aloud when
I am painfully excited is the keenest artistic pleasure I know. It does seem strange that these
dependent arts--singing, acting, and in its small way reading aloud seem the best rewarded
of all arts. I am sure it is more exciting for me to read than it was for W. W. to write; and
how much more must this be so with singing.

Friday.--I am going in the yacht on Wednesday. I am not right yet, and I hope the yacht will
set me up. I am too tired to-night to make more of it. Good-bye.--Ever your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

     [Edinburgh, June 1874], Friday.

MY DEAR COLVIN,--I am seedy--very seedy, I may say. I am quite unfit for any work or any pleasure;
and generally very sick. I am going away next week on Wednesday for my cruise which I hope
will set me up again. I should like a proof here up to Wednesday morning, or at Greenock, Tontine
Hotel, up to Friday morning, as I don't quite know my future address. I hope you are better,
and that it was not that spell of work you had that did the harm. It is to my spurt of work
that I am redevable for my harm. Walt Whitman is at the bottom of it all, 'cré nom! What a
pen I have!--a new pen, God be praised, how smoothly it functions! Would that I could work
as well. Chorus--Would that both of us could work as well--would that all of us could work
as well!--Ever yours,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S.--Bob is better; but he might be better yet. All goes smoothly except my murrained health.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     Swanston [Summer 1874].

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I am back again here, as brown as a berry with sun, and in good form. I have
been and gone and lost my portmanteau, with Walt Whitman in it and a lot of notes. This is
a nuisance. However, I am pretty happy, only wearying for news of you and for your address.

Friday.--À la bonne heure! I hear where you are and that you are apparently fairish well. That
is good at least. I am full of Reformation work; up to the eyes in it; and begin to feel learned.
A beautiful day outside, though something cold.

     R. L. S.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   Of the projects here mentioned, that of the little book of essays on
   the enjoyment of the world never took shape, nor were those
   contributions towards it which he printed in the Portfolio ever
   re-published until after the writer's death. The Appeal to the
   Clergy of the Church of Scotland was printed in 1874, published as a
   pamphlet in February 1875, and attracted, I believe, no attention
   whatever. The "fables" must have been some of the earliest numbers of
   the series continued at odd times till near the date of his death and
   published posthumously: I do not know which, but should guess The
   House of Eld, Yellow Paint, and perhaps those in the vein of
   Celtic mystery, The Touchstone, The Poor Thing, The Song of
   To-morrow.

     [Swanston, Summer 1874], Tuesday.

MY DEAR COLVIN,--What is new with you? There is nothing new with me: Knox and his females begin
to get out of restraint altogether; the subject expands so damnably, I know not where to cut
it off. I have another paper for the PTFL[15] on the stocks: a sequel to the two others; also,
that is to say, a word in season as to contentment and a hint to the careless to look around
them for disregarded pleasures. Seeley wrote to me asking me "to propose" something: I suppose
he means--well, I suppose I don't know what he means. But I shall write to him (if you think
it wise) when I send him this paper, saying that my writing is more a matter of God's disposition
than of man's proposal; that I had from Roads upward ever intended to make a little budget
of little papers all with this intention before them, call it ethical or æsthetic as you will;
and thus I shall leave it to him (if he likes) to regard this little budget, as slowly they
come forth, as a unity in its own small way. Twelve or twenty such essays, some of them mainly
ethical and expository, put together in a little book with narrow print in each page, antique,
vine leaves about, and the following title.

  XII (OR XX) ESSAYS ON THE ENJOYMENT OF THE WORLD:

             By Robert Louis Stevenson

               (A motto in italics)

                     Publisher

                  Place and date

You know the class of old book I have in my head. I smack my lips; would it not be nice! I
am going to launch on Scotch ecclesiastical affairs, in a tract addressed to the Clergy; in
which doctrinal matters being laid aside, I contend simply that they should be just and dignified
men at a certain crisis: this for the honour of humanity. Its authorship must, of course, be
secret or the publication would be useless. You shall have a copy of course, and may God help
you to understand it.

I have done no more to my fables. I find I must let things take their time. I am constant to
my schemes; but I must work at them fitfully as the humour moves.

--To return, I wonder, if I have to make a budget of such essays as I dream, whether Seeley
would publish them: I should give them unity, you know, by the doctrinal essays; nor do I think
these would be the least agreeable. You must give me your advice and tell me whether I should
throw out this delicate feeler to R. S.[16]; or if not, what I am to say to this "proposal"
business.

I shall go to England or Wales, with parents, shortly: after which, dash to Poland before setting
in for the dismal session at Edinburgh.

Spirits good, with a general sense of hollowness underneath: wanity of wanities etc.--Ever yours,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S.--Parents capital; thanks principally to them; yours truly still rather bitter, but less so.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   The last paragraph of the following means that Dr. Appleton, the
   amiable and indefatigable editor of the Academy, then recently
   founded, had been a little disturbed in mind by some of the
   contributions of his brilliant young friend, but allowed his academic
   conscience to be salved by the fact of their signature.

     [Swanston, Summer 1874.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--Am I mad? Have I lived thus long and have you known me thus long, to no purpose?
Do you imagine I could ever write an essay a month, or promise an essay even every three months?
I declare I would rather die than enter into any such arrangement. The Essays must fall from
me, Essay by Essay, as they ripen; and all that my communication with Seeley would effect would
be to make him see more in them than mere occasional essays; or at least look far more faithfully,
in which spirit men rarely look in vain. You know both Roads and my little girls[17] are a
part of the scheme which dates from early at Mentone. My word to Seeley, therefore, would be
to inform him of what I hope will lie ultimately behind them, of how I regard them as contributions
towards a friendlier and more thoughtful way of looking about one, etc. One other purpose of
telling him would be that I should feel myself more at liberty to write as I please, and not
bound to drag in a tag about Art every time to make it more suitable. Tying myself down to
time is an impossibility. You know my own description of myself as a person with a poetic character
and no poetic talent: just as my prose muse has all the ways of a poetic one, and I must take
my Essays as they come to me. If I got 12 of 'em done in two years, I should be pleased. Never,
please, let yourself imagine that I am fertile; I am constipated in the brains.

Look here, Appleton dined here last night and was delightful after the manner of our Appleton:
I was none the less pleased, because I was somewhat amused, to hear of your kind letter to
him in defence of my productions. I was amused at the tranquil dishonesty with which he told
me that I must put my name to all I write and then all will be well.--Yours ever,

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   Written on an expedition to Wales with his parents.

Friday.--Yesterday received the letter you know of. I have finished my Portfolio paper, not
very good but with things in it: I don't know if they will take it; and I have got a good start
made with my John Knox articles. The weather here is rainy and miserable and windy: it is warm
and not over boisterous for a certain sort of pleasure. This place, as I have made my first
real inquisition into it to-night is curious enough; all the days I have been here, I have
been at work, and so I was quite new to it.

Saturday.--A most beautiful day. We took a most beautiful drive, also up the banks of the river.
The heather and furze are in flower at once and make up a splendid richness of colour on the
hills; the trees were beautiful; there was a bit of winding road with larches on one hand and
oaks on the other; the oaks were in shadow and printed themselves off at every corner on the
sunlit background of the larches. We passed a little family of children by the roadside. The
youngest of all sat a good way apart from the others on the summit of a knoll; it was ensconced
in an old tea-box, out of which issued its head and shoulders in a blue cloak and scarlet hat.
O if you could have seen its dignity! It was deliciously humorous: and this little piece of
comic self-satisfaction was framed in wonderfully by the hills and the sunlit estuary. We saw
another child in a cottage garden. She had been sick, it seemed, and was taking the air quietly
for health's sake. Over her pale face, she had decorated herself with all available flowers
and weeds; and she was driving one chair as a horse, sitting in another by way of carriage.
We cheered her as we passed, and she acknowledged the compliment like a queen. I like children
better every day, I think, and most other things less. John Knox goes on, and a horrible story
of a nurse which I think almost too cruel to go on with: I wonder why my stories are always
so nasty.[18] I am still well, and in good spirits. I say, by the way, have you any means of
finding Madame Garschine's address. If you have, communicate with me. I fear my last letter
has been too late to catch her at Franzensbad; and so I shall have to go without my visit altogether,
which would vex me.

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     [Barmouth, September 1874], Tuesday.

I wonder if you ever read Dickens' Christmas books? I don't know that I would recommend you
to read them, because they are too much perhaps. I have only read two of them yet, and feel
so good after them and would do anything, yes and shall do everything, to make it a little
better for people. I wish I could lose no time; I want to go out and comfort some one; I shall
never listen to the nonsense they tell one about not giving money--I shall give money; not
that I haven't done so always, but I shall do it with a high hand now.

It is raining here; and I have been working at John Knox, and at the horrid story I have in
hand, and walking in the rain. Do you know this story of mine is horrible; I only work at it
by fits and starts, because I feel as if it were a sort of crime against humanity--it is so cruel.

Wednesday.--I saw such nice children again to-day; one little fellow alone by the roadside,
putting a stick into a spout of water and singing to himself--so wrapt up that we had to poke
him with our umbrellas to attract his attention; and again, two solid, fleshly, grave, double-chinned
burgomasters in black, with black hats on 'em, riding together in what they call, I think,
a double perambulator. My father is such fun here. He is always skipping about into the drawing-room,
and speaking to all the girls, and telling them God knows what about us all. My mother and
I are the old people who sit aloof, receive him as a sort of prodigal when he comes back to
us, and listen indulgently to what he has to tell.

Llandudno, Thursday.--A cold bleak place of stucco villas with wide streets to let the wind
in at you. A beautiful journey, however, coming hither.

Friday.--Seeley has taken my paper, which is, as I now think, not to beat about the bush, bad.
However, there are pretty things in it, I fancy; we shall see what you shall say.

Sunday.--I took my usual walk before turning in last night, and dallied over it a little. It
was a cool, dark, solemn night, starry, but the sky charged with big black clouds. The lights
in house windows you could see, but the houses themselves were lost in the general blackness.
A church clock struck eleven as I went past, and rather startled me. The whiteness of the road
was all I had to go by. I heard an express train roaring away down the coast into the night,
and dying away sharply in the distance; it was like the noise of an enormous rocket, or a shot
world, one would fancy. I suppose the darkness made me a little fanciful; but when at first
I was puzzled by this great sound in the night, between sea and hills, I thought half seriously
that it might be a world broken loose--this world to wit. I stood for I suppose five seconds
with this looking-for of destruction in my head, not exactly frightened but put out; and I
wanted badly not to be overwhelmed where I was, unless I could cry out a farewell with a great
voice over the ruin and make myself heard.--Ever your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   "John Knox" and "J. K." herein mentioned are the two papers on John
   Knox and His Relations with Women, first printed in Macmillan's
   Magazine and afterwards in Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   Mr. (later Sir) George Grove was for some years before and after this
   date the editor of Macmillan's Magazine (but the true monument to his
   memory is of course his Dictionary of Music). After the Knox
   articles no more contributions from R. L. S. appeared in this
   magazine, partly, I think, because Mr. Alexander Macmillan
   disapproved of his essay on Burns published the following year. The
   Portfolio paper here mentioned is that entitled On the Enjoyment of
   Unpleasant Places.

     [Swanston, Autumn 1874], Thursday.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I have another letter from Grove, about my John Knox, which is flattering
in its way: he is a very gushing and spontaneous person. I am busy with another Portfolio paper
for which I can find no name; I think I shall require to leave it without.

I am afraid I shall not get to London on my way to Poland, but I must try to manage it on my
way back; I must see you anyway, before I tackle this sad winter work, just to get new heart.
As it is, I am as jolly as three, in good health, fairish working trim and on good, very good,
terms with my people.

Look here, I must have people well. If they will keep well, I am all right: if they won't--well
I'll do as well as I can, and forgive them, and try to be something of a comfortable thought
in spite. So with that cheerful sentiment, good-night dear friend and good health to you.

Saturday.--Your letter to-day. Thank you. It is a horrid day, outside. You talk of my setting
to a book, as if I could; don't you know that things must come to me? I can do but little;
I mostly wait and look out. I am struggling with a Portfolio paper just now, which will not
come straight somehow and will get too gushy; but a little patience will get it out of the
kink and sober it down I hope. I have been thinking over my movements, and am not sure but
that I may get to London on my way to Poland after all. Hurrah! But we must not halloo till
we are out of the wood; this may be only a clearing.

God help us all, it is a funny world. To see people skipping all round us with their eyes sealed
up with indifference, knowing nothing of the earth or man or woman, going automatically to
offices and saying they are happy or unhappy out of a sense of duty, I suppose, surely at least
from no sense of happiness or unhappiness, unless perhaps they have a tooth that twinges, is
it not like a bad dream? Why don't they stamp their foot upon the ground and awake? There is
the moon rising in the east, and there is a person with their heart broken and still glad and
conscious of the world's glory up to the point of pain; and behold they know nothing of all
this! I should like to kick them into consciousness, for damp gingerbread puppets as they are.
S. C. is down on me for being bitter; who can help it sometimes, especially after they have
slept ill?

I am going to have a lot of lunch presently; and then I shall feel all right again, and the
loneliness will pass away as often before. It is the flesh that is weak. Already I have done
myself all the good in the world by this scribble, and feel alive again and pretty jolly.

Sunday.--What a day! Cold and dark as mid-winter. I shall send with this two new photographs
of myself for your opinion. My father regards this life "as a shambling sort of omnibus which
is taking him to his hotel." Is that not well said? It came out in a rather pleasant and entirely
amicable discussion which we had this afternoon on a walk. The colouring of the world, to-day
is of course hideous; we saw only one pleasant sight, a couple of lovers under a thorn-tree
by the wayside, he with his arm about her waist: they did not seem to find it so cold as we.
I have made a lot of progress to-day with my Portfolio paper. I think some of it should be
nice, but it rambles a little; I like rambling, if the country be pleasant; don't you?--Ever
your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     [October 27, 1874], Edinburgh, Thursday.

It is cold, but very sunshiny and dry; I wish you were here; it would suit you and it doesn't
suit me; if we could change? This is the Fast day--Thursday preceding bi-annual Holy Sacrament
that is--nobody does any work, they go to Church twice, they read nothing secular (except the
newspapers, that is the nuance between Fast day and Sunday), they eat like fighting-cocks.
Behold how good a thing it is and becoming well to fast in Scotland. I am progressing with
John Knox and Women No. 2; I shall finish it, I think, in a fortnight hence; and then I shall
begin to enjoy myself. J. K. and W. No. 2 is not uninteresting however; it only bores me because
I am so anxious to be at something else which I like better. I shall perhaps go to Church this
afternoon from a sort of feeling that it is rather a wholesome thing to do of an afternoon;
it keeps one from work and it lets you out so late that you cannot weary yourself walking and
so spoil your evening's work.

Friday.--I got your letter this morning, and whether owing to that, or to the fact that I had
spent the evening before in comparatively riotous living, I managed to work five hours and
a half well and without fatigue; besides reading about an hour more at history. This is a thing
to be proud of.

We have had lately some of the most beautiful sunsets; our autumn sunsets here are always admirable
in colour. To-night there was just a little lake of tarnished green deepening into a blood-orange
at the margins, framed above by dark clouds and below by the long roof-line of the Egyptian
buildings on what we call the Mound, the statues on the top (of her Britannic Majesty and diverse
nondescript Sphinxes) printing themselves off black against the lit space.

Saturday.--It has been colder than ever; and to-night there is a truculent wind about the house,
shaking the windows and making a hollow inarticulate grumbling in the chimney. I cannot say
how much I hate the cold. It makes my scalp so tight across my head and gives me such a beastly
rheumatism about my shoulders, and wrinkles and stiffens my face; O I have such a Sehnsucht
for Mentone, where the sun is shining and the air still, and (a friend writes to me) people
are complaining of the heat.

Sunday.--I was chased out by my lamp again last night; it always goes out when I feel in the
humour to write to you. To-day I have been to Church, which has not improved my temper I must
own. The clergyman did his best to make me hate him, and I took refuge in that admirable poem
the Song of Deborah and Barak; I should like to make a long scroll of painting (say to go all
round a cornice) illustrative of this poem; with the people seen in the distance going stealthily
on footpaths while the great highways go vacant; with the archers besetting the draw-wells;
with the princes in hiding on the hills among the bleating sheep-flocks; with the overthrow
of Sisera, the stars fighting against him in their courses and that ancient river, the river
Kishon, sweeping him away in anger; with his mother looking and looking down the long road
in the red sunset, and never a banner and never a spear-clump coming into sight, and her women
with white faces round her, ready with lying comfort. To say nothing of the people on white asses.

O, I do hate this damned life that I lead. Work--work--work; that's all right, it's amusing;
but I want women about me and I want pleasure. John Knox had a better time of it than I, with
his godly females all leaving their husbands to follow after him; I would I were John Knox;
I hate living like a hermit. Write me a nice letter if ever you are in the humour to write
to me, and it doesn't hurt your head. Good-bye.--Ever your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL.

   The projected visit to his Russian friend in Poland did not come off,
   and shortly after the preceding letter Stevenson went for a few days'
   walking tour in the Chiltern Hills of Buckinghamshire, as recorded in
   his essay An Autumn Effect. He then came on for a visit to London.

     [London, November 1874.]

When I left you I found an organ-grinder in Russell Square playing to a child; and the simple
fact that there was a child listening to him, that he was giving this pleasure, entitled him,
according to my theory, as you know, to some money; so I put some coppers on the ledge of his
organ, without so much as looking at him, and I was going on when a woman said to me: "Yes,
sir, he do look bad, don't he? scarcely fit like to be working." And then I looked at the man,
and O! he was so ill, so yellow and heavy-eyed and drooping. I did not like to go back somehow,
and so I gave the woman a shilling and asked her to give it to him for me. I saw her do so
and walked on; but the face followed me, and so when I had got to the end of the division,
I turned and came back as hard as I could and filled his hand with money--ten to thirteen shillings,
I should think. I was sure he was going to be ill, you know, and he was a young man; and I
dare say he was alone, and had no one to love him.

I had my reward; for a few yards farther on, here was another organ-grinder playing a dance
tune, and perhaps a dozen children all dancing merrily to his music, singly, and by twos and
threes, and in pretty little figures together. Just what my organ-grinder in my story wanted
to have happen to him! It was so gay and pleasant in the twilight under the street lamp.

I am very well, have eaten well, and am so sleepy I can write no more. This I write to let
you know I am no worse; all the better.--Ever your faithful friend,

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     [Edinburgh, November 1874], Sunday.

I was never more sorry to leave you, but I never left you with a better heart, than last night.
I had a long journey and a cold one; but never was sick nor sorry the whole way. It was a long
one because when we got to Berwick, we had to go round through the hills by Kelso, as there
was a block on the main line. I knew nothing of this, and you may imagine my bewilderment when
I came to myself, the train standing and whistling dismally in the black morning, before a
little vacant half-lit station, with a name up that I had never heard before. My fellow-traveller
woke up and wanted to know what was wrong. "O, it's nothing," I said, "nothing at all, it's
an evil dream." However we had the thing explained to us at the end of ends, and trailed on
in the dark among the snowy hills, stopping every now and again and whistling in an appealing
kind of way, as much as to say, "God knows where we are, for God's sake don't run into us";
until at last we came to a dead standstill and remained so for perhaps an hour and a quarter.
This wakened us up for a little; and we managed, at last, to attract the attention of one of
the officials whom we could see picking their way about the snow with lanterns. This man (very
wide awake, and hale, and lusty) informed us we were waiting for another conductor, as our
own guard did not know the line. "Where is the new guard coming from?" we ask. "O, close by;
only--he, he--he was married last night." And immediately we heard much hoarse laughter in
the dark about us; and the moving lanterns were shaken to and fro, as if in a wind. This poor
conductor! However, I recomposed myself for slumber, and did not re-awake much before Edinburgh,
where I was discharged three hours too late and found my father waiting for me in the snow,
with a very long face.--Ever your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   I forget what the Japanese prints were which I had been sending to
   Stevenson at his wish, but they sound like specimens of Hiroshigé and
   Kuniyoshi. The taste for these things was then quite new and had laid
   hold on him strongly.

     [Edinburgh, November 1874.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--Thank you, and God bless you for ever: this is a far better lot than the last;
I have chosen four complete sets out of it for setting, quite admirable: the others are not
quite one's taste; I find the colour far from always being agreeable, it is a great toss up.
They have sent me duplicates of first a mad little scene with a white horse, a red monarch
and a blue arm of the sea in it; and second of a night scene with water, flowers and a black
and white umbrella and a wonderful grey distance and a wonderful general effect--one of my
best in fact. Do not now force yourself to make any more purchases for me; but if ever you
see a thing you would like to lecture off, remember I am the person who is ready to buy it
and let you have the use of it: keep this in view always.

I am working very hard (for me) and am very happy over my picters.

Goodbye, mon vieux.--Ever yours,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S.--In fact if ever you see anything exceptionally fine, purchase for R. L. S. I owe you
lots of money besides this, don't I? John Knox is red and sparkling on the anvil and the hammer
goes about six hours on him.

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   During his days in London Stevenson had gone with Mrs. Sitwell to
   revisit the Elgin marbles, and had carried off photographs of them to
   put up in his room at Edinburgh. King Matthias's Hunting Horn has
   perished like so many other stories of this time.

     [Edinburgh, November 1874], Tuesday.

Well, I've got some women now, and they're better than nothing. Three, without heads, who have
been away getting framed. And you know they are more to me, after a fashion, than they can
be to you, because, after a fashion also, they are women. I have come now to think the sitting
figure in spite of its beautiful drapery rather a blemish, rather an interruption to the sentiment.
The two others are better than one has ever dreamed; I think these two women are the only things
in the world that have been better than, in Bible phrase, it had entered into my heart to conceive.
Who made them? Was it Pheidias? or do they not know? It is wonderful what company they are--noble
company. And then I have now three Japanese pictures that are after my own heart, and I get
up from time to time and turn a bit of favourite colour over and over, roll it under my tongue,
savour it till it gets all through me; and then back to my chair and to work.

This afternoon about six there was a small orange moon, lost in a great world of blue evening.
A few leafless boughs, and a bit of garden railing, criss-cross its face; and below it there
was blueness and the spread lights of Leith, lost in blue haze. To the east, the town, also
subdued to the same blue, piled itself up, with here and there a lit window, until it could
print off its outline against a faint patch of green and russet that remained behind the sunset.

I must tell you about my way of life, which is regular to a degree. Breakfast 8.30; during
breakfast and my smoke afterwards till ten, when I begin work, I read Reformation; from ten,
I work until about a quarter to one; from one until two, I lunch and read a book on Schopenhauer
or one on Positivism; two to three work, three to six anything; if I am in before six, I read
about Japan: six, dinner and a pipe with my father and coffee until 7.30; 7.30 to 9.30, work;
after that either supper and a pipe at home, or out to Simpson's or Baxter's: bed between eleven
and twelve.

Wednesday.--Two good things have arrived to me to-day: your letter for one, and the end of
John Knox for another. I cannot write English because I have been speaking French all evening
with some French people of my knowledge. It's a sad thing the state I get into, when I cannot
remember English and yet do not know French! And it is worse when it is complicated, as at
present, with a pen that will not write! If you knew how I have to paint and how I have to
manoeuvre to get the stuff legible at all.

Thursday.--I have said the Fates are only women after a fashion; and that is one of the strangest
things about them. They are wonderfully womanly--they are more womanly than any woman--and
those girt draperies are drawn over a wonderful greatness of body instinct with sex; I do not
see a line in them that could be a line in a man. And yet, when all is said, they are not women
for us; they are of another race, immortal, separate; one has no wish to look at them with
love, only with a sort of lowly adoration, physical, but wanting what is the soul of all love,
whether admitted to oneself or not, hope; in a word "the desire of the moth for the star."
O great white stars of eternal marble, O shapely, colossal women, and yet not women. It is
not love that we seek from them, we do not desire to see their great eyes troubled with our
passions, or the great impassive members contorted by any hope or pain or pleasure; only now
and again, to be conscious that they exist, to have knowledge of them far off in cloudland
or feel their steady eyes shining, like quiet watchful stars, above the turmoil of the earth.

I write so ill; so cheap and miserable and penny-a-linerish is this John Knox that I have just
sent, that I am low. Only I keep my heart up by thinking of you. And if all goes to the worst,
shall I not be able to lay my head on the great knees of the middle Fate--O these great knees--I
know all Baudelaire meant now with his géante--to lay my head on her great knees and go to sleep.

Friday.--I have finished The Story of King Matthias' Hunting Horn, whereof I spoke to you,
and I think it should be good. It excites me like wine, or fire, or death, or love, or something;
nothing of my own writing ever excited me so much; it does seem to me so weird and fantastic.

Saturday.--I know now that there is a more subtle and dangerous sort of selfishness in habit
than there ever can be in disorder. I never ceased to be generous when I was most déréglé;
now when I am beginning to settle into habits, I see the danger in front of me--one might cease
to be generous and grow hard and sordid in time and trouble. However, thank God it is life
I want, and nothing posthumous, and for two good emotions I would sacrifice a thousand years
of fame. Moreover I know so well that I shall never be much as a writer that I am not very
sorely tempted.

My only chance is in my stories; and so you will forgive me if I postpone everything else to
copy out King Matthias; I have learned by experience that a story should be copied out and
finished fairly off at the first heat if ever. I am even thinking of finishing up half-a-dozen
perhaps and trying the publishers? what do you say? Give me your advice?

Sunday.--Good-bye. A long story to tell but no time to tell it: well and happy. Adieu.--Ever
your faithful friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     Edinburgh [Sunday, November 1874].

TO MRS. SITWELL

   The Portfolio article here mentioned is An Autumn Effect (see
   Essays of Travel). The Italian story so delightedly begun was by
   and by condemned and destroyed like all the others of this time.

     [Edinburgh, January 1875], Monday.

Have come from a concert. Sinico sang, tant bien que mal, "Ah perfido spergiuro!"; and then
we had the Eroica symphony (No. 3). I can, and need, say no more; I am rapt out of earth by
it; Beethoven is certainly the greatest man the world has yet produced. I wonder, is there
anything so superb--I can find no word for it more specific than superb--all I know is that
all my knowledge is transcended. I finished to-day and sent off (and a mighty mean detail it
is, to set down after Beethoven's grand passion) my Portfolio article about Buckinghamshire.
In its own way I believe it to be a good thing; and I hope you will find something in it to
like; it touches, in a dry enough manner, upon most things under heaven, and if you like me,
I think you ought to like this intellectual--no, I withdraw the word--this artistic dog of
mine. Thaw--thaw--thaw, up here; and farewell skating, and farewell the clear dry air and the
wide, bright, white snow-surface, and all that was so pleasant in the past.

Wednesday.--Yesterday I wasn't well and to-night I have been ever so busy. There came a note
from the Academy, sent by John H. Ingram, the editor of the edition of Poe's works I have been
reviewing, challenging me to find any more faults. I have found nearly sixty; so I may be happy;
but that makes me none the less sleepy; so I must go to bed.

Friday.--I am awfully out of the humour to write; I am very inert although quite happy; I am
informed by those who are more expert that I am bilious. Bien; let it be so; I am still content;
and though I can do no original work, I get forward making notes for my Knox at a good trot.

Saturday.--I am so happy. I am no longer here in Edinburgh. I have been all yesterday evening
and this forenoon in Italy, four hundred years ago, with one Sannazzaro, a sculptor, painter,
poet, etc., and one Ippolita, a beautiful Duchess. O I like it badly! I wish you could hear
it at once; or rather I wish you could see it immediately in beautiful type on such a page
as it ought to be, in my first little volume of stories. What a change this is from collecting
dull notes for John Knox, as I have been all the early part of the week--the difference between
life and death.--I am quite well again and in such happy spirits, as who would not be, having
spent so much of his time at that convent on the hills with these sweet people. Vous verrez,
and if you don't like this story--well, I give it up if you don't like it. Not but what there's
a long way to travel yet; I am no farther than the threshold; I have only set the men, and
the game has still to be played, and a lot of dim notions must become definite and shapely,
and a deal be clear to me that is anything but clear as yet. The story shall be called, I think,
When the Devil was well, in allusion to the old proverb.

Good-bye.

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

     [Edinburgh, January 1875.]

I wish I could write better letters to you. Mine must be very dull. I must try to give you
news. Well, I was at the annual dinner of my old Academy schoolfellows last night. We sat down
ten, out of seventy-two! The others are scattered all over the places of the earth, some in
San Francisco, some in New Zealand, some in India, one in the backwoods--it gave one a wide
look over the world to hear them talk so. I read them some verses. It is great fun; I always
read verses, and in the vinous enthusiasm of the moment they always propose to have them printed;
Ce qui n'arrive jamais du reste: in the morning, they are more calm.

Sunday.--It occurs to me that one reason why there is no news in my letters is because there
is so little in my life. I always tell you of my concerts: I was at another yesterday afternoon:
a recital of Hallé and Norman Neruda. I went in the evening to the pantomime with the Mackintoshes--cousins
of mine. Their little boy, aged four, was there for the first time. To see him with his eyes
fixed and open like saucers, and never varying his expression save in so far as he might sometimes
open his mouth a little wider, was worth the money. He laughed only once--when the giant's
dwarf fed his master as though he were a child. Coming home, he was much interested as to who
made the fairies, and wanted to know if they were like berries. I should like to know how much
this question was due to the idea of their coming up from under the stage, and how much to
a vague idea of rhyme. When he was told that they were not like berries, he then asked if they
had not been flowers before they were fairies. It was a good deal in the vein of Herbert Spencer's
primitive man all this.

I am pretty well but have not got back to work much since Tuesday. I work far too hard at the
story; but I wish I had finished it before I stopped as I feel somewhat out of the swing now.--Ever
your faithful

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   Another of the literary projects which came to naught, no one of the
   stories mentioned having turned out according to Stevenson's dream
   and desire at its first conception, or even having been preserved for
   use afterwards as the foundation of riper work. "Clytie" is of course
   the famous Roman bust from the Townley collection in the British
   Museum.

     [Edinburgh, January 1875.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--Thanks for your letter, I too am in such a state of business that I know not
when to find the time to write. Look here--Seeley does not seem to me to have put that paper
of mine in this month; so I remain unable to pay you; which is a sad pity and must be forgiven me.

What am I doing? Well I wrote my second John Knox, which is not a bad piece of work for me;
begun and finished ready for press in nine days. Then I have since written a story called King
Matthias's Hunting Horn, and I am engaged in finishing another called The Two Falconers of
Cairnstane. I find my stories affect me rather more perhaps than is wholesome. I have only
been two hours at work to-day, and yet I have been crying and am shaking badly, as you can
see in my handwriting, and my back is a bit bad. They give me pleasure though, quite worth
all results. However I shall work no more to-day.

I am to get £1000 when I pass Advocate, it seems; which is good.

O I say, will you kindly tell me all about the bust of Clytie.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then I had the wisdom to stop and look over Japanese picture books until lunch time.

Well, tell me all about Clytie, how old is it, who did it, what's it about, etc. Send it on
a sheet that I can forward without indiscretion to another, as I desire the information for
a friend whom I wish to please.

Now, look here. When I have twelve stories ready--these twelve--

  A   /  I. The Devil on Cramond Sands
  l  |         (needs copying about half).
  l  |
     |  II. The Curate of Anstruther's Bottle
  S  |        (needs copying altogether).
  c <
  o  | III. The Two Falconers of Cairnstane
  t  |        (wants a few pages).
  c  |
  h  |  IV. Strange Adventures of Mr. Nehemiah Solny
  .   \       (wants reorganisation).

         V. King Matthias's Hunting Horn (all ready).

        VI. Autolycus at Court (in gremio).

       VII. The Family of Love (in gremio).

      VIII. The Barrel Organ (all ready).

        IX. The Last Sinner (wants copying).

         X. Margery Bonthron (wants a few pages).

        XI. Martin's Madonna (in gremio).

       XII. Life and Death (all ready).

--when I have these twelve ready, should I not do better to try to get a publisher for them,
call them A Book of Stories and put a good dedicatory letter at the fore end of them. I should
get less coin than by going into magazines perhaps; but I should also get more notice, should
I not? and so, do better for myself in the long run. Now, should I not? Besides a book with
boards is a book with boards, even if it bain't a very fat one and has no references to Ammianus
Marcellinus and German critics at the foot of the pages. On all this, I shall want your serious
advice. I am sure I shall stand or fall by the stories; and you'll think so too, when you see
those poor excrescences the two John Knox and Women games. However, judge for yourself and
be prudent on my behalf, like a good soul.

Yes, I'll come to Cambridge then or thereabout, if God doesn't put a real tangible spoke in
my wheel.

My terms with my parents are admirable; we are a very united family.

Good-bye, mon cher, je ne puis plus écrire. I have not quite got over a damned affecting part
in my story this morning. O cussed stories, they will never affect any one but me I fear.--Ever
yours,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   In the following is related Stevenson's first introduction to Mr. W.
   E. Henley. The acquaintance thus formed ripened quickly, as is well
   known, into a close and stimulating friendship. Of the story called
   A Country Dance no trace remains.

     [Edinburgh, April 1875] Saturday. He plainly has
been little in the country before. Imagine this: I always stopped him on
the Bridges to let him enjoy the great cry of green that goes up to
Heaven out of the river beds, and he asked (more than once) "What noise
is that?"--"The water."--"O!" almost incredulously; and then quite a
long while after: "Do you know the noise of the water astonished me very
much?" I was much struck by his putting the question twice; I have
lost the sense of wonder of course; but there must be something to
wonder at, for Henley has eyes and ears and an immortal soul of his own.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

     [Edinburgh, May or June 1875.]

I say, we have a splendid picture here in Edinburgh. A Ruysdael of which one can never tire:
I think it is one of the best landscapes in the world: a grey still day, a grey still river,
a rough oak wood on one shore, on the other chalky banks with very complicated footpaths, oak
woods, a field where a man stands reaping, church towers relieved against the sky and a beautiful
distance, neither blue nor green. It is so still, the light is so cool and temperate, the river
woos you to bathe in it. O I like it!

I say, I wonder if our Scottish Academy's exhibition is going to be done at all for Appleton
or whether he does not care for it. It might amuse me, although I am not fit for it. Why and
O why doesn't Grove publish me?--Ever yours,

     R. L. STEVENSON.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   I was at this time, if I remember rightly, preparing some lectures on
   Hogarth for a course at Cambridge.

     [Swanston, June 1875.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--I am a devil certainly; but write I cannot. Look here, you had better get
hold of G. C. Lichtenberg's Ausfürliche Erklarung der Hogarthischen Kupferstiche: Göttingen,
1794 to 1816 (it was published in numbers seemingly). Douglas the publisher lent it to me:
and tho' I hate the damned tongue too cordially to do more than dip into it, I have seen some
shrewd things. If you cannot get it for yourself, (it seems scarce), I dare say I could negotiate
with Douglas for a loan. This adorable spring has made me quite drunken, drunken with green
colour and golden sound. We have the best blackbird here that we have had for years; we have
two; but the other is but an average performer. Anything so rich and clear as the pipe of our
first fiddle, it never entered into the heart of man to fancy. How the years slip away, Colvin;
and we walk little cycles, and turn in little abortive spirals, and come out again, hot and
weary, to find the same view before us, the same hill barring the road. Only, bless God for
it, we have still the same eye to see with, and if the scene be not altogether unsightly, we
can enjoy it whether or no. I feel quite happy, but curiously inert and passive, something
for the winds to blow over, and the sun to glimpse on and go off again, as it might be a tree
or a gravestone. All this willing and wishing and striving leads a man nowhere after all. Here
I am back again in my old humour of a sunny equanimity; to see the world fleet about me; and
the days chase each other like sun patches, and the nights like cloud-shadows, on a windy day;
content to see them go and no wise reluctant for the cool evening, with its dew and stars and
fading strain of tragic red. And I ask myself why I ever leave this humour? What I have gained?
And the winds blow in the trees with a sustained "Pish"! and the birds answer me in a long
derisive whistle.

So that for health, happiness, and indifferent literature, apply to--Ever yours,

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   "Burns" means the article on Burns which R. L. S. had been
   commissioned to write for the Encyclopædia Britannica. The "awfully
   nice man" was the Hon. J. Seed, formerly Secretary to the Customs and
   Marine Department of New Zealand; and it was from his conversation
   that the notion of the Samoan Islands as a place of refuge for the
   sick and world-worn first entered Stevenson's mind, to lie dormant (I
   never heard him speak of it) and be revived thirteen years later.
   Fontainebleau is the paper called Forest Notes, afterwards
   printed in the Cornhill Magazine. The church is Glencorse Church in
   the Pentlands, to the thoughts of which Stevenson reverted in his
   last days with so much emotion (see Weir of Hermiston, chap. v.).

  Ever your
      R.
      L.
      S.

FOOTNOTES:

  [13] L'Homme qui rit.

  [14] This letter, accepting the first contribution of R. L. S., has
    by an accident been preserved, and is so interesting, both for its
    occasion and for the light it throws on the writer's care and
    kindness as an editor, that by permission of his representatives I
    here print it. '93 stands, of course, for the novel Quatre-vingt
    Treize.

      15 Waterloo Place, S. W., 15/5/74

    DEAR SIR,--I have read with great interest your article on Victor
    Hugo and also that which appeared in the last number of Macmillan. I
    shall be happy to accept Hugo, and if I have been rather long in
    answering you, it is only because I wished to give a second reading
    to the article, and have lately been very much interrupted.

    I will now venture to make a few remarks, and by way of preface I
    must say that I do not criticise you because I take a low view of
    your powers: but for the very contrary reason. I think very highly
    of the promise shown in your writings and therefore think it worth
    while to write more fully than I can often to contributors. Nor do I
    set myself up as a judge--I am very sensible of my own failings in
    the critical department and merely submit what has occurred to me
    for your consideration.

    I fully agree with the greatest portion of your opinions and think
    them very favourably expressed. The following points struck me as
    doubtful when I read and may perhaps be worth notice.

    First, you seem to make the distinction between dramatic and
    novelistic art coincide with the distinction between romantic and
    18th century. This strikes me as doubtful, as at least to require
    qualification. To my mind Hugo is far more dramatic in spirit than
    Fielding, though his method involves (as you show exceedingly well)
    a use of scenery and background which would hardly be admissible in
    drama. I am not able--I fairly confess--to define the dramatic
    element in Hugo or to say why I think it absent from Fielding and
    Richardson. Yet surely Hugo's own dramas are a sufficient proof that
    a drama may be romantic as well as a novel: though, of course, the
    pressure of the great moral forces, etc., must be indicated by
    different means. The question is rather a curious one and too wide
    to discuss in a letter. I merely suggest what seems to me to be an
    obvious criticism on your argument.

    Secondly, you speak very sensibly of the melodramatic and clap-trap
    element in Hugo. I confess that it seems to me to go deeper into his
    work than you would apparently allow. I think it, for example, very
    palpable even in Notre Dame, and I doubt the historical fidelity
    though my ignorance of mediæval history prevents me from putting my
    finger on many faults. The consequence is that in my opinion you are
    scarcely just to Scott or Fielding as compared with Hugo. Granting
    fully his amazing force and fire, he seems to me to be deficient
    often in that kind of healthy realism which is so admirable in
    Scott's best work. For example, though my Scotch blood (for I can
    boast of some) may prejudice me I am profoundly convinced that
    Balfour of Burley would have knocked M. Lantenac into a cocked hat
    and stormed la Tourgue if it had been garrisoned by 19 x 19 French
    spouters of platitude in half the time that Gauvain and Cimourdain
    took about it. In fact, Balfour seems to me to be flesh and blood
    and Gauvain & Co. to be too often mere personified bombast: and
    therefore I fancy that Old Mortality will outlast '93, though
    Notre Dame is far better than Quentin Durward, and Les
    Misérables, perhaps, better than any. This is, of course, fair
    matter of opinion.

    Thirdly, I don't think that you quite bring out your meaning in
    saying that '93 is a decisive symptom. I confess that I don't quite
    see in what sense it decides precisely what question. A sentence or
    so would clear this up.

    Fourthly, as a matter of form, I think (but I am very doubtful) that
    it might possibly have been better not to go into each novel in
    succession; but to group the substance of your remarks a little
    differently. Of course I don't want you to alter the form, I merely
    notice the point as suggesting a point in regard to any future
    article.

    Many of your criticisms in detail strike me as very good. I was much
    pleased by your remarks on the storm in the Travailleurs. There
    was another very odd storm, as it struck me on a hasty reading in
    '93, where there is mention of a beautiful summer evening and yet
    the wind is so high that you can't hear the tocsin. You do justice
    also and more than justice to Hugo's tenderness about children.
    That, I think, points to one great source of his power.

    It would be curious to compare Hugo to a much smaller man, Chas.
    Reade, who is often a kind of provincial or Daily Telegraph Hugo.
    However that would hardly do in the Cornhill. I shall send your
    article to the press and hope to use it in July. Any alterations can
    be made when the article is in type, if any are desirable. I cannot
    promise definitely in advance; but at any rate it shall appear as
    soon as may be.

    Excuse this long rigmarole and believe me to be, yours very truly,

      LESLIE STEPHEN.

    I shall hope to hear from you again. If ever you come to town you
    will find me at 8 Southwell Gardens (close to the Gloucester Road
    Station of the Underground). I am generally at home, except from 3
    to 5.

  [15] Portfolio.

  [16] Richmond Seeley.

  [17] The essay Notes on the Movements of Young Children.

  [18] I remember nothing of either the title or the tenor of this story.

  [19] Printed by Mr. Leslie Stephen in the Cornhill. But he made no serious
attempt to practise, and by the 25th of the same month had started with
Sir Walter Simpson for France. Here he lived and tramped for several
weeks among the artist haunts of Fontainebleau and the neighbourhood,
occupying himself chiefly with studies of the French poets and poetry of
the fifteenth century, which afterwards bore fruit in his papers on
Charles of Orleans and François Villon. Thence he travelled to join his
parents at Wiesbaden and Homburg. Returning in the autumn to Scotland,
he made, to please them, an effort to live the ordinary life of an
Edinburgh advocate--attending trials and spending his mornings in wig
and gown at the Parliament House. But this attempt was before long
abandoned as tending to waste of time and being incompatible with his
real occupation of literature. Through the next winter and spring he
remained in Edinburgh, except for a short winter walking tour in
Ayrshire and Galloway, and a month spent among his friends in London. In
the late summer of 1876, after a visit to the West Highlands, he made
the canoe trip with Sir Walter Simpson which furnished the subject of
the Inland Voyage, followed by a prolonged autumn stay at Grez and
Barbizon. The life, atmosphere, and scenery of these forest haunts had
charmed and soothed him, as we have seen, since he was first introduced
to them by his cousin, Mr. R. A. M. Stevenson, in the spring of 1875. An
unfettered, unconventional, open-air existence, passed face to face with
nature and in the company of congenial people engaged, like himself, in
grappling with the problems and difficulties of an art, had been what he
had longed for most consistently through all the agitations of his
youth. And now he had found just such an existence, and with it, as he
thought, peace of mind, health, and the spirit of unimpeded work.

But peace of mind was not to be his for long. What indeed awaited him in the forest was something
different and more momentous: it was his fate: the romance which decided his life, and the
companion whom he resolved to make his own at all hazards. But of this hereafter. To continue
briefly the annals of the time: the year 1877 was again spent between Edinburgh, London, the
Fontainebleau region, and several different temporary abodes in the artists' and other quarters
of Paris; with an excursion in the company of his parents to the Land's End in August. In 1878
a similar general mode of life was varied by a visit with his parents in March to Burford Bridge,
where he made warm friends with a senior to whom he had long looked up from a distance, Mr.
George Meredith; by a spell of secretarial work under Professor Fleeming Jenkin, who was serving
as a juror on the Paris Exhibition; and lastly, by the autumn tramp through the Cévennes, afterwards
recounted with so much charm in Travels with a Donkey. The first half of 1879 was again spent
between London, Scotland, and France.

During these four years, it should be added, Stevenson's health was very passable. It often,
indeed, threatened to give way after any prolonged residence in Edinburgh, but was generally
soon restored by open-air excursions (during which he was capable of fairly vigorous and sustained
daily exercise), or by a spell of life among the woods of Fontainebleau. They were also the
years in which he settled for good into his chosen profession of letters. He worked rather
desultorily for the first twelve months after his call to the Bar, but afterwards with ever-growing
industry and success, winning from the critical a full measure of recognition, though relatively
little, so far, from the general public. In 1875 and 1876 he contributed as a journalist, though
not frequently, to the Academy and Vanity Fair, and in 1877 more abundantly to London, a weekly
review founded by Mr. Glasgow Brown, an acquaintance of Edinburgh Speculative days, and carried
on, after the failure of that gentleman's health, by Mr. Henley. But he had no great gift or
liking for journalism, or for any work not calling for the best literary form and finish he
could give. Where he found special scope for such work was in the Cornhill Magazine under the
editorship of Mr. Leslie Stephen. Here he continued his critical papers on men and books, already
begun in 1874 with Victor Hugo, and began in 1876 the series of papers afterwards collected
in Virginibus Puerisque. They were continued in 1877, and in greater number throughout 1878.
His first published stories appeared as follows:--A Lodging for the Night, Temple Bar, October
1877; The Sire de Malétroit's Door, Temple Bar, January 1878; and Will o' the Mill, Cornhill
Magazine, January 1878. In May 1878 followed his first travel book, The Inland Voyage, containing
the account of his canoe trip from Antwerp to Grez. This was to Stevenson a year of great and
various productiveness. Besides six or eight characteristic essays of the Virginibus Puerisque
series, there appeared in London the set of fantastic modern tales called the New Arabian Nights,
conceived and written in an entirely different key from any of his previous work, as well as
the kindly, sentimental comedy of French artist life, Providence and the Guitar; and in the
Portfolio the Picturesque Notes on Edinburgh, republished at the end of the year in book form.
During the autumn and winter of this year he wrote Travels with a Donkey in the Cévennes, and
was much and eagerly engaged in the planning of plays in collaboration with Mr. Henley; of
which one, Deacon Brodie, was finished in the spring of 1879. In the same spring he drafted
in Edinburgh, but afterwards laid by, four chapters on ethics, a study of which he once spoke
as being always his "veiled mistress," under the name of Lay Morals.

But abounding in good work as this period was, and momentous as it was in regard to Stevenson's
future life, it is a period which figures but meagrely in his correspondence, and in this book
must fill disproportionately little space. Without the least breach of friendship, or even
of intimate confidence on occasion, Stevenson had begun, as was natural and necessary, to wean
himself from his entire dependence on his friend and counsellor of the last two years; to take
his life more into his own hands; and to intermit the regularity of his correspondence with
her. A few new correspondents appear; but to none of us in these days did he write more than
scantily. Partly his growing absorption by the complications of his life and the interests
of his work left him little time or inclination for letter-writing; partly his greater freedom
of movement made it unnecessary. On his way backwards and forwards between Scotland and France,
his friends in London had the chance of seeing him much more frequently than of yore. He avoided
formal and dress-coated society; but in the company of congenial friends, whether men or women,
and in places like the Savile Club (his favourite haunt), he was as brilliant and stimulating
as ever, and however acute his inward preoccupations, his visits were always a delight.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

     [Edinburgh, end of July 1875.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--Herewith you receive the rest of Henley's hospital work. He was much pleased
by what you said of him, and asked me to forward these to you for your opinion. One poem, the
Spring Sorrow, seems to me the most beautiful. I thank God for this petit bout de consolation,
that by Henley's own account, this one more lovely thing in the world is not altogether without
some trace of my influence: let me say that I have been something sympathetic which the mother
found and contemplated while she yet carried it in her womb. This, in my profound discouragement,
is a great thing for me; if I cannot do good with myself, at least, it seems, I can help others
better inspired; I am at least a skilful accoucheur. My discouragement is from many causes:
among others the re-reading of my Italian story. Forgive me, Colvin, but I cannot agree with
you; it seems green fruit to me, if not really unwholesome; it is profoundly feeble, damn its
weakness! Moreover I stick over my Fontainebleau, it presents difficulties to me that I surmount
slowly.

I am very busy with Béranger for the Britannica. Shall be up in town on Friday or Saturday.--Ever
yours,

     R. L. S., Advocate.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   At this time Stevenson was much occupied, as were several young
   writers his contemporaries, with imitating the artificial forms of
   early French verse. Only one of his attempts, I believe, has been
   preserved, besides the two contained in this letter.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   The special mood or occasion of unaccustomed bitterness which
   prompted this rhapsody has passed from memory beyond recall. The date
   must be after his return from his second excursion to Fontainebleau.

     [Swanston, late Summer 1875] Thursday.

I have been staying in town, and could not write a word. It is a fine strong night, full of
wind; the trees are all crying out in the darkness; funny to think of the birds asleep outside,
on the tossing branches, the little bright eyes closed, the brave wings folded, the little
hearts that beat so hard and thick (so much harder and thicker than ever human heart) all stilled
and quieted in deep slumber, in the midst of this noise and turmoil. Why, it will be as much
as I can do to sleep in here in my walled room; so loud and jolly the wind sounds through the
open window. The unknown places of the night invite the travelling fancy; I like to think of
the sleeping towns and sleeping farm-houses and cottages, all the world over, here by the white
road poplar-lined, there by the clamorous surf. Isn't that a good dormitive?

Saturday.--I cannot tell how I feel, who can ever? I feel like a person in a novel of George
Sand's; I feel I desire to go out of the house, and begin life anew in the cool blue night;
never to come back here; never, never. Only to go on for ever by sunny day and grey day, by
bright night and foul, by high-way and by-way, town and hamlet, until somewhere by a road-side
or in some clean inn clean death opened his arms to me and took me to his quiet heart for ever.
If soon, good; if late, well then, late--there would be many a long bright mile behind me,
many a goodly, many a serious sight; I should die ripe and perfect, and take my garnered experience
with me into the cool, sweet earth. For I have died already and survived a death; I have seen
the grass grow rankly on my grave; I have heard the train of mourners come weeping and go laughing
away again. And when I was alone there in the kirk-yard, and the birds began to grow familiar
with the grave-stone, I have begun to laugh also, and laughed and laughed until night-flowers
came out above me. I have survived myself, and somehow live on, a curious changeling, a merry
ghost; and do not mind living on, finding it not unpleasant; only had rather, a thousandfold,
died and been done with the whole damned show for ever. It is a strange feeling at first to
survive yourself, but one gets used to that as to most things. Et puis, is it not one's own
fault? Why did not one lie still in the grave? Why rise again among men's troubles and toils,
where the wicked wag their shock beards and hound the weary out to labour? When I was safe
in prison, and stone walls and iron bars were an hermitage about me, who told me to burst the
mild constraint and go forth where the sun dazzles, and the wind pierces, and the loud world
sounds and jangles all through the weary day? I mind an old print of a hermit coming out of
a great wood towards evening and shading his bleared eyes to see all the kingdoms of the earth
before his feet, where towered cities and castled hills, and stately rivers, and good corn
lands made one great chorus of temptation for his weak spirit, and I think I am the hermit,
and would to God I had dwelt ever in the wood of penitence[20]----

     R. L. S.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   The Burns herein mentioned is an article undertaken in the early
   summer of the same year for the Encyclopædia Britannica. In the end
   Stevenson's work was thought to convey a view of the poet too frankly
   critical, and too little in accordance with the accepted Scotch
   tradition; and the publishers, duly paying him for his labours,
   transferred the task to Professor Shairp. The volume here announced
   on the three Scottish eighteenth-century poets unfortunately never
   came into being. The Charles of Orleans essay appeared in the
   Cornhill Magazine for December of the following year; that on Villon
   (with the story on the same theme, A Lodging for the Night) not
   until the autumn of 1877. The essay on Béranger referred to at the
   end of the letter was one commissioned and used by the editor of the
   Encyclopædia; Spring was a prose poem, of which the manuscript,
   sent to me at Cambridge, was unluckily lost in the confusion of a
   change of rooms.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   The two following letters refer to the essay on the Spirit of Spring
   which I was careless enough to lose in the process of a change of
   rooms at Cambridge. The Petits Poèmes en Prose were attempts, not
   altogether successful, in the form though not in the spirit of
   Baudelaire.

     Swanston [Autumn 1875].

MY DEAR COLVIN,--Thanks. Only why don't you tell me if I can get my Spring printed? I want
to print it; because it's nice, and genuine to boot, and has got less side on than my other
game. Besides I want coin badly.

I am writing Petits Poèmes en Prose. Their principal resemblance to Baudelaire's is that they
are rather longer and not quite so good. They are ve-ry cle-ver (words of two syllables), O
so aw-ful-ly cle-ver (words of three), O so dam-na-bly cle-ver (words of a devil of a number
of syllables). I have written fifteen in a fortnight. I have also written some beautiful poetry.
I would like a cake and a cricket-bat; and a pass-key to Heaven if you please, and as much
money as my friend the Baron Rothschild can spare. I used to look across to Rothschild of a
morning when we were brushing our hair, and say--(this is quite true, only we were on the opposite
side of the street, and though I used to look over I cannot say I ever detected the beggar,
he feared to meet my eagle eye)--well, I used to say to him, "Rothschild, old man, lend us
five hundred francs," and it is characteristic of Rothy's dry humour that he used never to
reply when it was a question of money. He was a very humorous dog indeed, was Rothy. Heigh-ho!
those happy old days. Funny, funny fellow, the dear old Baron.

How's that for genuine American wit and humour? Take notice of this in your answer; say, for
instance, "Even although the letter had been unsigned, I could have had no difficulty in guessing
who was my dear, lively, witty correspondent. Yours, Letitia Languish."

O!--my mind has given way. I have gone into a mild, babbling, sunny idiocy. I shall buy a Jew's
harp and sit by the roadside with a woman's bonnet on my manly head begging my honest livelihood.
Meantime, adieu.

I would send you some of these PP. Poèmes of mine, only I know you would never acknowledge
receipt or return them.--Yours, and Rothschild's,

     R. L. STEVENSON. The matter of the poem is praised; the
   "slating" is only for the form and metres.

     [Edinburgh, December 1875.]

Well, I am hardy! Here I am in the midst of this great snowstorm, sleeping with my window open
and smoking in my cold tub in the morning so as it would do your heart good to see. Moreover
I am in pretty good form otherwise. Fontainebleau lags; it has turned out more difficult than
I expected in some places, but there is a deal of it ready, and (I think) straight.

I was at a concert on Saturday and heard Hallé and Norman Neruda play that Sonata of Beethoven's
you remember, and I felt very funny. But I went and took a long spanking walk in the dark and
got quite an appetite for dinner. I did; that's not bragging.

As you say, a concert wants to be gone to with someone, and I know
who. I have done rather an amusing paragraph or two for Vanity Fair on
the Inn Album. I have slated R. B. pretty handsomely. In the following letter he unbosoms himself to a favourite
   cousin (sister to R. A. M. Stevenson).

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   Fontainebleau is the paper called Forest Notes which appeared in
   the Cornhill Magazine in May of this year (reprinted in Essays of
   Travel). The Winter's Walk, as far as it goes one of the most
   charming of his essays of the Road, was for some reason never
   finished; reprinted ibidem. £5, 5s. is a good deal to pay for a read of it in MS.; I can't
complain.--Yours,

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. SITWELL

   This dates from just before the canoeing trip recounted in the
   Inland Voyage.

     [Swanston, July 1876.]

Well, here I am at last; it is a Sunday, blowing hard, with a grey sky with the leaves flying;
and I have nothing to say. I ought to have no doubt; since it's so long since last I wrote;
but there are times when people's lives stand still. If you were to ask a squirrel in a mechanical
cage for his autobiography, it would not be very gay. Every spin may be amusing in itself,
but is mighty like the last; you see I compare myself to a lighthearted animal; and indeed
I have been in a very good humour. For the weather has been passable; I have taken a deal of
exercise, and done some work. "<sc>The Hair Trunk; or, the Ideal Commonwealth</sc>."

TO MRS. SITWELL

   Neither The Stepfather's Story nor the St. Michael's Mounts essay
   here mentioned ever, to my knowledge, came into being.

TO A. PATCHETT MARTIN

   This correspondent, living at the time in Australia, was, I believe,
   the first to write and seek Stevenson's acquaintance from admiration
   of his work, meaning especially the Cornhill essays of the
   Virginibus Puerisque series so far as they had yet appeared. The
   "present" herein referred to is Mr. Martin's volume called A Sweet
   Girl Graduate and other Poems (Melbourne, 1876).

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   The Inland Voyage, it must be remembered, at this time just put
   into the publisher's hands, was the author's first book. The "Crane
   sketch" mentioned in the second of the following notes to me was the
   well-known frontispiece to that book on which Mr. Walter Crane was
   then at work. The essay Pan's Pipes, reprinted in Virginibus
   Puerisque, was written about this time.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   I had had business in Edinburgh, and had stayed with Stevenson's
   parents in his absence. St. Michel, Paris, 15th Feb. 1878.

MY DEAR FATHER,--A thought has come into my head which I think would interest you. Christianity
is among other things, a very wise, noble, and strange doctrine of life. Nothing is so difficult
to specify as the position it occupies with regard to asceticism. It is not ascetic. Christ
was of all doctors (if you will let me use the word) one of the least ascetic. And yet there
is a theory of living in the Gospels which is curiously indefinable, and leans towards asceticism
on one side, although it leans away from it on the other. In fact, asceticism is used therein
as a means, not as an end. The wisdom of this world consists in making oneself very little
in order to avoid many knocks; in preferring others, in order that, even when we lose, we shall
find some pleasure in the event; in putting our desires outside of ourselves, in another ship,
so to speak, so that, when the worst happens, there will be something left. You see, I speak
of it as a doctrine of life, and as a wisdom for this world. People must be themselves, I suppose.
I feel every day as if religion had a greater interest for me; but that interest is still centred
on the little rough-and-tumble world in which our fortunes are cast for the moment. I cannot
transfer my interests, not even my religious interest, to any different sphere.... I have had
some sharp lessons and some very acute sufferings in these last seven-and-twenty years--more
even than you would guess. I begin to grow an old man; a little sharp, I fear, and a little
close and unfriendly; but still I have a good heart, and believe in myself and my fellow-men
and the God who made us all.... There are not many sadder people in this world, perhaps, than
I. I have my eye on a sickbed;[22] I have written letters to-day that it hurt me to write,
and I fear it will hurt others to receive; I am lonely and sick and out of heart. Well, I still
hope; I still believe; I still see the good in the inch, and cling to it. It is not much, perhaps,
but it is always something.

I find I have wandered a thousand miles from what I meant. It was this: of all passages bearing
on Christianity in that form of a worldly wisdom, the most Christian, and so to speak, the
key of the whole position, is the Christian doctrine of revenge. And it appears that this came
into the world through Paul! There is a fact for you. It was to speak of this that I began
this letter; but I have got into deep seas and must go on.

There is a fine text in the Bible, I don't know where, to the effect that all things work together
for good to those who love the Lord. Strange as it may seem to you, everything has been, in
one way or the other, bringing me a little nearer to what I think you would like me to be.
'Tis a strange world, indeed, but there is a manifest God for those who care to look for him.

This is a very solemn letter for my surroundings in this busy café; but I had it on my heart
to write it; and, indeed, I was out of the humour for anything lighter.--Ever your affectionate
son,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S.--While I am writing gravely, let me say one word more. I have taken a step towards more
intimate relations with you. But don't expect too much of me. Try to take me as I am. This
is a rare moment, and I have profited by it; but take it as a rare moment. Usually I hate to
speak of what I really feel, to that extent that when I find myself cornered, I have a tendency
to say the reverse.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   This letter tells of the progress of the Portfolio papers called
   Picturesque Notes on Edinburgh, and of preparations for the walking
   tour narrated in Travels with a Donkey. The late Philip Gilbert
   Hamerton, editor of the Portfolio and author of A Painter's Camp in
   the Highlands and of many well-known works on art, landscape, and
   French social life, was at this time and for many years living at a
   small chateau near Autun; and the visit here proposed was actually
   paid and gave great pleasure alike to host and guest (see P. G.
   Hamerton, an Autobiography, etc., p. 451).

TO W. E. HENLEY

   Stevenson, hard at work upon Providence and the Guitar, New
   Arabian Nights, and Travels with a Donkey, was at this time
   occupying for a few days my rooms at Trinity in my absence. The
   college buildings and gardens, the ideal setting and careful tutelage
   of English academic life--in these respects so strongly contrasted
   with the Scottish--affected him always with a sense of unreality. The
   gyp mentioned is the present head porter of the college.

     R. L. S.

TO EDMUND GOSSE

   The matter of the loan and its repayment, here touched on, comes up
   again in Stevenson's last letter of all, that which closes the book.
   Stevenson and Mr. Gosse had planned a joint book of old murder
   stories retold, and had been to visit the scene of one famous murder
   together.

TO W. E. HENLEY

   This is in reply to some technical criticisms of his correspondent on
   the poem Our Lady of the Snows, referring to the Trappist
   monastery in the Cévennes so called, and afterwards published in
   Underwoods.

     R. L. S.

TO MISS JANE BALFOUR

   This correspondent, the long-lived spinster among the Balfour sisters
   (died 1907, aged 91) and the well-beloved "auntie" of a numerous clan
   of nephews and nieces, is the subject of the set of verses, Auntie's
   Skirts, in the Child's Garden. She had been reading Travels with
   a Donkey on its publication.

     [Swanston, June 1879.]

MY DEAR AUNTIE,--If you could only think a little less of me and others, and a great deal more
of your delightful self, you would be as nearly perfect as there is any need to be. I think
I have travelled with donkeys all my life; and the experience of this book could be nothing
new to me. But if ever I knew a real donkey, I believe it is yourself. You are so eager to
think well of everybody else (except when you are angry on account of some third person) that
I do not believe you have ever left yourself time to think properly of yourself. You never
understand when other people are unworthy, nor when you yourself are worthy in the highest
degree. Oblige us all by having a guid conceit o' yoursel and despising in the future the whole
crowd, including your affectionate nephew,

     R. L. S.

TO EDMUND GOSSE

   This letter is contemporary with the much-debated Cornhill essay On
   some Aspects of Burns, afterwards published in Familiar Studies of
   Men and Books. "Meredith's story" is probably the Tragic
   Comedians.

     Swanston, July 24, 1879.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   Rembrandt refers to an article in the Edinburgh Review. "Bummkopf"
   was Stevenson's name for the typical pedant, German or other, who
   cannot clear his edifice of its scaffolding, nor set forth the
   results of research without intruding on the reader all its
   processes, evidences, and supports. Burns is the aforesaid Cornhill
   essay: not the rejected Encyclopædia article.

     R. L. S.

FOOTNOTES:

  [20] The letter breaks off here.

  [21] Thomas Basin or Bazin, the historian of Charles VIII. and Louis XI.

  [22] R. Glasgow Brown lay dying in the Riviera.

V

THE AMATEUR EMIGRANT

S.S. DEVONIA--MONTEREY AND SAN FRANCISCO--MARRIAGE

July 1879-July 1880

In France, as has been already indicated, Stevenson had met the American lady, Mrs. Osbourne,
who was afterwards to become his wife. Her domestic relations had not been fortunate; to his
chivalrous nature her circumstances appealed no less than her person; and almost from their
first meeting, which befell at Grez, immediately after the canoe voyage of 1876, he conceived
for her an attachment which was to transform and determine his life. On her return to America
with her children in the autumn of 1878, she determined to seek a divorce from her husband.
Hearing of her intention, together with very disquieting news of her health, and hoping that
after she had obtained the divorce he might make her his wife, Stevenson suddenly started for
California at the beginning of August 1879.

For what he knew must seem to his friends, and especially to his father, so wild an errand,
he would ask for no supplies from home; but resolved, risking his whole future on the issue,
to test during this adventure his power of supporting himself, and eventually others, by his
own labours in literature. In order from the outset to save as much as possible, he made the
journey in the steerage and the emigrant train. With this prime motive of economy was combined
a second--that of learning for himself the pinch of life as it is felt by the unprivileged
and the poor (he had long ago disclaimed for himself the character of a "consistent first-class
passenger in life")--and also, it should be added, a third, that of turning his experiences
to literary account. On board ship he took daily notes with this intent, and wrote moreover
The Story of a Lie for an English magazine. Arrived at his destination, he found his health,
as was natural, badly shaken by the hardships of the journey; tried his favourite open-air
cure for three weeks at an Angora goat-ranche some twenty miles from Monterey; and then lived
from September to December in that old Californian coast-town itself, under the conditions
set forth in the earlier of the following letters, and under a heavy combined strain of personal
anxiety and literary effort. From the notes taken on board ship and in the emigrant train he
drafted an account of his journey, intending to make a volume matching in form, though in contents
much unlike, the earlier Inland Voyage and Travels with a Donkey. He wrote also the essays
on Thoreau and the Japanese reformer, Yoshida Torajiro, afterwards published in Familiar Studies
of Men and Books; one of the most vivid of his shorter tales, The Pavilion on the Links, hereinafter
referred to as a "blood and thunder," as well as a great part of another and longer story drawn
from his new experiences and called A Vendetta in the West; but this did not satisfy him, and
was never finished. He planned at the same time, in the spirit of romantic comedy, that tale
which took final shape four years later as Prince Otto. Towards the end of December 1879 Stevenson
moved to San Francisco, where he lived for three months in a workman's lodging, leading a life
of frugality amounting, it will be seen, to self-imposed penury, and working always with the
same intensity of application, until his health utterly broke down. One of the causes which
contributed to his illness was the fatigue he underwent in helping to watch beside the sickbed
of a child, the son of his landlady. During a part of March and April he lay at death's door--his
first really dangerous sickness since childhood--and was slowly tended back to life by the
joint ministrations of his future wife and the physician to whom his letter of thanks will
be found below. His marriage ensued in May 1880; immediately afterwards, to try and consolidate
his recovery, he moved to a deserted mining-camp in the Californian coast range; and has recorded
the aspects and humours of his life there with a master's touch in the Silverado Squatters.

The news of his dangerous illness and approaching marriage had in the meantime unlocked the
parental heart and purse; supplies were sent ensuring his present comfort, with the promise
of their continuance for the future, and of a cordial welcome for the new daughter-in-law in
his father's house. The following letters, chosen from among those written during the period
in question, depict his way of life, and reflect at once the anxiety of his friends and the
strain of the time upon himself.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   The story mentioned at the beginning of this letter is The Story of a
   Lie.

I am not beaten yet, though disappointed. If I am, it's for good this time; you know what "for
good" means in my vocabulary--something inside of 12 months perhaps; but who knows? At least,
if I fail in my great purpose, I shall see some wild life in the West and visit both Florida
and Labrador ere I return. But I don't yet know if I have the courage to stick to life without
it. Man, I was sick, sick, sick of this last year.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

     Monterey [December 1879].

MY DEAR COLVIN,--I have been down with pleurisy but now convalesce; it was a slight attack,
but I had a hot fever; pulse 150; and the thing reminds me of my weakness. These miseries tell
on me cruelly. But things are not so hopeless as they might be so I am far from despair. Besides
I think I may say I have some courage for life.

But now look here:

     Fables and Tales

  Story of a Lie                 100 pp. like the Donkey.
  Providence and the Guitar       52
  Will o' the Mill                45
  A Lodging for the Night         40 (about)
  Sieur de Malétroit's Door       42
                                 ---
                             say 280 pp. in all.

Here is my scheme. Henley already proposed that Caldecott should illustrate Will o' the Mill.
The Guitar is still more suited to him; he should make delicious things for that. And though
the Lie is not much in the way for pictures, I should like to see my dear Admiral in the flesh.
I love the Admiral; I give my head, that man's alive. As for the other two they need not be
illustrated at all unless he likes.

Is this a dream altogether? I would if necessary ask nothing down for the stories, and only
a small royalty but to begin from the first copy sold.

I hate myself for being always on business. But I cannot help my fears and anxieties about
money; even if all came well, it would be many a long day before we could afford to leave this
coast. Is it true that the Donkey is in a second edition? That should bring some money, too,
ere long, though not much I dare say. You will see the Guitar is made for Caldecott; moreover
it's a little thing I like. I am no lover of either of the things in Temple Bar; but they will
make up the volume, and perhaps others may like them better than I do. They say republished
stories do not sell. Well, that is why I am in a hurry to get this out. The public must be
educated to buy mine or I shall never make a cent. I have heaps of short stories in view. The
next volume will probably be called Stories or A Story-Book, and contain quite a different
lot: The Pavilion on the Links: Professor Rensselaer: The Dead Man's Letter: The Wild Man of
the Woods: The Devil on Cramond Sands. They would all be carpentry stories; pretty grim for
the most part; but of course that's all in the air as yet.--Yours ever,

     R. L. S.

TO W. E. HENLEY

     Monterey, December 11th, 1879.

MY DEAR HENLEY,--Many, many thanks for your long letter. And now to rectifications:--

1. You are wrong about the Lie, from choosing a wrong standard. Compare it with my former stories,
not with Scott, or Fielding, or Balzac, or Charles Reade, or even Wilkie Collins; and where
will you find anything half or a tenth part as good as the Admiral, or even Dick, or even the
Squire, or even Esther. If you had thought of that, you would have complimented me for advance.
But you were not quite sincere with yourself: you were seeking arguments to make me devote
myself to plays, unbeknown, of course, to yourself.

2. Plays, dear boy, are madness for me just now. The best play is hopeless before six months,
and more likely eighteen for outsiders like you and me. And understand me, I have to get money
soon, or it has no further interest for me; I am nearly through my capital; with what pluck
I can muster against great anxieties and in a very shattered state of health, I am trying to
do things that will bring in money soon; and I could not, if I were not mad, step out of my
way to work at what might perhaps bring me in more but months ahead. Journalism, you know well,
is not my forte; yet if I could only get a roving commission from a paper, I should leap at
it and send them goodish (no more than that) goodish stuff.

As for my poor literature, dear Henley, you must expect for a time to find it worse and worse.
Perhaps, if God favours me a little at last, it will pick up again. Now I am fighting with
both hands, a hard battle, and my work, while it will be as good as I can make it, will probably
be worth twopence. If you despised the Donkey, dear boy, you should have told me so at the
time, not reserved it for a sudden revelation just now when I am down in health, wealth, and
fortune. But I am glad you have said so at last. Never, please, delay such confidences any
more. If they come quickly, they are a help; if they come after long silence, they feel almost
like a taunt.

Now, to read all this, any one would think you had written unkindly, which is not so, as God
who made us knows. But I wished to put myself right ere I went on to state myself. Nothing
has come but the volume of Labiche; the Burns I have now given up; the P.O. authorities plainly
regard it as contraband; make no further efforts in that direction. But, please, if anything
else of mine appears, see that my people have a copy. I hoped and supposed my own copy would
go as usual to the old address, and, let me use Scotch, I was fair affrontit when I found this
had not been done.

You have not told me how you are and I heard you had not been well. Please remedy this.

The end of life? Yes, Henley, I can tell you what that is. How old are all truths, and yet
how far from commonplace; old, strange, and inexplicable, like the Sphinx. So I learn day by
day the value and high doctrinality of suffering. Let me suffer always; not more than I am
able to bear, for that makes a man mad, as hunger drives the wolf to sally from the forest;
but still to suffer some, and never to sink up to my eyes in comfort and grow dead in virtues
and respectability. I am a bad man by nature, I suppose; but I cannot be good without suffering
a little. And the end of life, you will ask? The pleasurable death of self: a thing not to
be attained, because it is a thing belonging to Heaven. All this apropos of that good, weak,
feverish, fine spirit, ---- ----. We have traits in common; we have almost the same strength
and weakness intermingled; and if I had not come through a very hot crucible, I should be just
as feverish. My sufferings have been healthier than his; mine have been always a choice, where
a man could be manly; his have been so too, if he knew it, but were not so upon the face; hence
a morbid strain, which his wounded vanity has helped to embitter.

I wonder why I scratch every one to-day. And I believe it is because I am conscious of so much
truth in your strictures on my damned stuff. I don't care; there is something in me worth saying,
though I can't find what it is just yet; and ere I die, if I do not die too fast, I shall write
something worth the boards, which with scarce an exception I have not yet done. At the same
time, dear boy, in a matter of vastly more importance than Opera Omnia Ludovici Stevenson,
I mean my life, I have not been a perfect cad; God help me to be less and less so as the days
go on.

The Emigrant is not good, and will never do for P.M.G., though it must have a kind of rude
interest. R. L. S.

I am now quite an American--yellow envelopes.

MY DEAR HENLEY,--You have got a letter ahead of me, owing to the Alpine accumulation of ill
news I had to stagger under. I will stand no complaints of my correspondence from England,
I having written near half as many letters again as I have received.

Do not damp me about my work; qu'elle soit bonne ou mauvaise, it has to be done. You know the
wolf is at the door, and I have been seriously ill. I am now at Thoreau. I almost blame myself
for persevering in anything so difficult under the circumstances: but it may set me up again
in style, which is the great point. I have now £80 in the world and two houses to keep up for
an indefinite period. It is odd to be on so strict a regimen; it is a week for instance since
I have bought myself a drink, and unless times change, I do not suppose I shall ever buy myself
another. The health improves. The Pied Piper is an idea; it shall have my thoughts, and so
shall you. The character of the P. P. would be highly comic, I seem to see. Had you looked
at the Pavilion, I do not think you would have sent it to Stephen; 'tis a mere story, and has
no higher pretension: Dibbs is its name, I wish it was its nature also. The Vendetta, at which
you ignorantly puff out your lips, is a real novel, though not a good one. As soon as I have
found strength to finish the Emigrant, I shall also finish the Vend. and draw a breath--I wish
I could say, "and draw a cheque." My spirits have risen contra fortunam; I will fight this
out, and conquer. You are all anxious to have me home in a hurry. There are two or three objections
to that; but I shall instruct you more at large when I have time, for to-day I am hunted, having
a pile of letters before me. Yet it is already drawing into dusk.--Yours affectionately,

     R. L. S.

TO W. E. HENLEY

   The Dook de Karneel (= Cornhill) and Marky de Stephen is of course
   Mr. Leslie Stephen. The "blood and thunder" is The Pavilion on the
   Links. Hester Noble and Don Juan were the titles of two plays
   planned and begun with W. E. Henley the previous winter. They were
   never finished. The French novels mentioned are by Joseph Méry. The
   Dialogue on Character and Destiny still exists in a fragmentary
   condition. George the Pieman is a character in Deacon Brodie.

     608 Bush Street, San Francisco, January 23rd, 1880.

MY DEAR HENLEY,--That was good news. The Dook de Karneel, K.C.B., taken a blood and thunder!
Well, I thought it had points; now, I know it. And I'm to see a proof once more! O Glory Hallelujah,
how beautiful is proof, And how distressed that author man who dwells too far aloof. His favourite
words he always finds his friends misunderstand, With oaths, he reads his articles, moist brow
and clenchéd hand. Impromtoo. The last line first-rate. When may I hope to see the Deacon?
I pine for the Deacon, for proofs of the Pavilion--O and for a categorical confession from
you that the second edition of the Donkey was a false alarm, which I conclude from hearing no more.

I have twice written to the Marky de Stephen; each time with one of my bright papers, so I
should hear from him soon. How are Baron Payn, Sir Robert de Bob, and other members of the
Aristocracy?

  Here's breid an' wine an' kebbuck an' canty cracks at e'en
    To the folks that mind o' me when I'm awa',
  But them that hae forgot me, O ne'er to be forgi'en--
    They may a' gae tapsalteerie in a raw!

I have mighty little to say, dear boy, to seem worth 2-1/2d. I have thought of the Piper, but
he does not seem to come as yet; I get him too metaphysical. I shall make a shot for Hester,
as soon as I have finished the Emigrant and the Vendetta and perhaps my Dialogue on Character
and Destiny. Hester and Don Juan are the two that smile on me; but I will touch nothing in
the shape of a play until I have made my year's income sure. You understand, and you see that
I am right?

I have read M. Auguste and the Crime inconnu, being now abonné to a library, and found them
very readable, highly ingenious, and so French that I could not keep my gravity. The Damned
Ones of the Indies now occupy my attention; I have myself already damned them repeatedly. I
am, as you know, the original person the wheels of whose chariot tarried; but though I am so
slow, I am rootedly tenacious. Do not despair. Hester and the Don are sworn in my soul; and
they shall be.

Is there no news? Real news, newsy news. Heavenly blue, this is strange. Remember me to the
lady of the Cawstle, my toolip, and ever was,

     GEORGE THE PIEMAN.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   With reference to the following, it must be explained that the first
   draft of the first part of the Amateur Emigrant, when it reached me
   about Christmas, had seemed to me, compared to his previous travel
   papers, a somewhat wordy and spiritless record of squalid
   experiences, little likely to advance his still only half-established
   reputation; and I had written to him to that effect, inopportunely
   enough, with a fuller measure even than usual of the frankness which
   always marked our intercourse.

MY DEAR AND KIND WEG,--It was a lesson in philosophy that would have moved a bear, to receive
your letter in my present temper. For I am now well and well at my ease, both by comparison.
First, my health has turned a corner; it was not consumption this time, though consumption
it has to be some time, as all my kind friends sing to me, day in, day out. Consumption! how
I hate that word; yet it can sound innocent, as, e.g., consumption of military stores. What
was wrong with me, apart from colds and little pleuritic flea-bites, was a lingering malaria;
and that is now greatly overcome, I eat once more, which is a great amusement and, they say,
good for the health. Second, many of the thunderclouds that were overhanging me when last I
wrote, have silently stolen away like Longfellow's Arabs: and I am now engaged to be married
to the woman whom I have loved for three years and a half. I do not yet know when the marriage
can come off; for there are many reasons for delay. But as few people before marriage have
known each other so long or made more trials of each other's tenderness and constancy, I permit
myself to hope some quiet at the end of all. At least I will boast myself so far; I do not
think many wives are better loved than mine will be. Third and last, in the order of what has
changed my feelings, my people have cast me off, and so that thundercloud, as you may almost
say, has overblown. You know more than most people whether or not I loved my father.[27] These
things are sad; nor can any man forgive himself for bringing them about; yet they are easier
to meet in fact than by anticipation. I almost trembled whether I was doing right, until I
was fairly summoned; then, when I found that I was not shaken one jot, that I could grieve,
that I could sharply blame myself, for the past, and yet never hesitate one second as to my
conduct in the future, I believed my cause was just and I leave it with the Lord. I certainly
look for no reward, nor any abiding city either here or hereafter, but I please myself with
hoping that my father will not always think so badly of my conduct nor so very slightingly
of my affection as he does at present.

You may now understand that the quiet economical citizen of San Francisco who now addresses
you, a bonhomme given to cheap living, early to bed though scarce early to rise in proportion
(que diable! let us have style, anyway), busied with his little bits of books and essays and
with a fair hope for the future, is no longer the same desponding, invalid son of a doubt and
an apprehension who last wrote to you from Monterey. I am none the less warmly obliged to you
and Mrs. Gosse for your good words. I suppose that I am the devil (hearing it so often), but
I am not ungrateful. Only please, Weg, do not talk of genius about me; I do not think I want
for a certain talent, but I am heartily persuaded I have none of the other commodity; so let
that stick to the wall: you only shame me by such friendly exaggerations.

When shall I be married? When shall I be able to return to England? When
shall I join the good and blessed in a forced march upon the New
Jerusalem? That is what I know not in any degree; some of them, let us
hope, will come early, some after a judicious interval. I have three
little strangers knocking at the door of Leslie Stephen: The Pavilion
on the Links, a blood and thunder story, accepted; Yoshida
Torajiro, a paper on a Japanese hero who will warm your blood,
postulant; and Henry David Thoreau: his character and
opinions--postulant also. I give you these hints knowing you to love
the best literature, that you may keep an eye at the mast-head for these
little tit-bits.
   Stevenson introduced himself, and the two became firm friends.
   Allusion was made a few pages back to a letter from Professor
   Meiklejohn about the Burns essay.

     608 Bush Street, San Francisco, California, Feb. 1st, 1880.

MY DEAR MEIKLEJOHN,--You must think me a thankless fellow by this time; but if you knew how
harassed and how sick I had been, and how I have twice begun to write to you already, you might
condescend to forgive the puir gangrel body. To tell you what I have been doing, thinking,
and coming through these six or seven months would exhilarate nobody: least of all me. Infandum
jubes, so I hope you won't. I have done a great deal of work, but perhaps my health of mind
and body should not let me expect much from what I have done. At least I have turned the corner;
my feet are on the rock again, I believe, and I shall continue to pour forth pure and wholesome
literature for the masses as per invoice.

I am glad you liked Burns; I think it is the best thing I ever did. Did not the national vanity
exclaim? Do you know what Shairp thought? I think I let him down gently, did I not?

I have done a Thoreau, which I hope you may like, though I have a feeling that perhaps it might
be better. Please look out for a little paper called Yoshida Torajiro, which, I hope, will
appear in Cornhill ere very long; the subject, at least, will interest you. I am to appear
in the same magazine with a real "blood and bones in the name of God" story. Why Stephen took
it, is to me a mystery; anyhow, it was fun to write, and if you can interest a person for an
hour and a half, you have not been idle. When I suffer in mind, stories are my refuge; I take
them like opium; and I consider one who writes them as a sort of doctor of the mind. And frankly,
Meiklejohn, it is not Shakespeare we take to, when we are in a hot corner; nor, certainly,
George Eliot--no, nor even Balzac. It is Charles Reade, or old Dumas, or the Arabian Nights,
or the best of Walter Scott; it is stories we want, not the high poetic function which represents
the world; we are then like the Asiatic with his improvisatore or the middle-agee with his
trouvère. We want incident, interest, action: to the devil with your philosophy. When we are
well again, and have an easy mind, we shall peruse your important work; but what we want now
is a drug. So I, when I am ready to go beside myself, stick my head into a story-book, as the
ostrich with her bush; let fate and fortune meantime belabour my posteriors at their will.

I have not seen the Spectator article; nobody sent it to me. If you had an old copy lying by
you, you would be very good to despatch it to me. A little abuse from my grandmamma would do
me good in health, if not in morals.

This is merely to shake hands with you and give you the top of the morning in 1880. But I look
to be answered; and then I shall promise to answer in return. For I am now, so far as that
can be in this world, my own man again, and when I have heard from you, I shall be able to
write more naturally and at length.

At least, my dear Meiklejohn, I hope you will believe in the sincerely warm and friendly regard
in which I hold you, and the pleasure with which I look forward, not only to hearing from you
shortly, but to seeing you again in the flesh with another good luncheon and good talk. Tell
me when you don't like my work.--Your friend,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO W. E. HENLEY

   The essays here mentioned on Benjamin Franklin and William Penn were
   projects long cherished but in the end abandoned: The Forest State
   came to maturity three years later as Prince Otto.

     R. L. S.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   I had written proposing that a collected volume of his short stories
   should be published with illustrations by Caldecott. At the end of
   this letter occurs his first allusion to his now famous Requiem.

     [608 Bush Street, San Francisco, February 1880.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--I received a very nice letter from you with two enclosures. I am still unable
to finish the Emigrant, although there are only some fifteen pages to do. The Vendetta is,
I am afraid, scarce Fortnightly form, though after the Pavilion being taken by Stephen, I am
truly at sea about all such matters. I dare say my Prince of Grünewald--the name still uncertain--would
be good enough for anything if I could but get it done: I believe that to be a really good
story. The Vendetta is somewhat cheap in motive; very rum and unlike the present kind of novels
both for good and evil in writing; and on the whole, only remarkable for the heroine's character,
and that I believe to be in it.

I am not well at all. But hope to be better. You know I have been hawked to death these last
months. And then I lived too low, I fear; and any way I have got pretty low and out at elbows
in health. I wish I could say better,--but I cannot. With a constitution like mine, you never
know--to-morrow I may be carrying topgallant sails again: but just at present I am scraping
along with a jurymast and a kind of amateur rudder. Truly I have some misery, as things go;
but these things are mere detail. However, I do not want to crever, claquer, and cave in just
when I have a chance of some happiness; nor do I mean to. All the same, I am more and more
in a difficulty how to move every day. What a day or an hour might bring forth, God forbid
that I should prophesy. Certainly, do what you like about the stories; Will o' the Mill, or
not. It will be Caldecott's book or nobody's. I am glad you liked the Guitar: I always did:
and I think C. could make lovely pikters to it: it almost seems as if I must have written it
for him express.

I have already been a visitor at the Club for a fortnight; but that's over, and I don't much
care to renew the period. I want to be married, not to belong to all the Clubs in Christendie....
I half think of writing up the Sand-lot agitation for Morley; it is a curious business; were
I stronger, I should try to sugar in with some of the leaders: a chield amang 'em takin' notes;
one, who kept a brothel, I reckon, before she started socialist, particularly interests me.
If I am right as to her early industry, you know she would be sure to adore me. I have been
all my days a dead hand at a harridan, I never saw the one yet that could resist me. When I
die of consumption, you can put that upon my tomb.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sketch of my tomb follows:--

  ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

  born 1850, of a family of engineers,
  died ...

                      "Nitor aquis."
  Home is the sailor, home from sea,
  And the hunter home from the hill.

You, who pass this grave, put aside hatred; love kindness; be all services remembered in your
heart and all offences pardoned; and as you go down again among the living, let this be your
question: can I make some one happier this day before I lie down to sleep? Thus the dead man
speaks to you from the dust: you will hear no more from him.

Who knows, Colvin, but I may thus be of more use when I am buried than
ever when I was alive? The more I think of it, the more earnestly do I
desire this. I may perhaps try to write it better some day; but that is
what I want in sense. The verses are from a beayootiful poem by me. Forester, here mentioned,
   was an autobiographical paper by J. W. F. on his own boyhood.

     P.O. San Francisco, April 8th, 1880.

MY DEAR FERRIER,--Many thanks for your letter, and the instalment of Forester which accompanied
it, and which I read with amusement and pleasure. I fear Somerset's letter must wait; for my
dear boy, I have been very nearly on a longer voyage than usual; I am fresh from giving Charon
a quid instead of an obolus: but he, having accepted the payment, scorned me, and I had to
make the best of my way backward through the mallow-wood, with nothing to show for this displacement
but the fatigue of the journey. As soon as I feel fit, you shall have the letter, trust me.
But just now even a note such as I am now writing takes it out of me. I have, truly, been very
sick; I fear I am a vain man, for I thought it a pity I should die. I could not help thinking
that a good many would be disappointed; but for myself, although I still think life a business
full of agreeable features I was not entirely unwilling to give it up. It is so difficult to
behave well; and in that matter, I get more dissatisfied with myself, because more exigent,
every day. I shall be pleased to hear again from you soon. I shall be married early in May
and then go to the mountains, a very withered bridegroom. I think your MS. Bible, if that were
a specimen, would be a credit to humanity. Between whiles, collect such thoughts both from
yourself and others: I somehow believe every man should leave a Bible behind him,--if he is
unable to leave a jest book. I feel fit to leave nothing but my benediction. It is a strange
thing how, do what you will, nothing seems accomplished. I feel as far from having paid humanity
my board and lodging as I did six years ago when I was sick at Mentone. But I dare say the
devil would keep telling me so, if I had moved mountains, and at least I have been very happy
on many different occasions, and that is always something. I can read nothing, write nothing;
but a little while ago and I could eat nothing either; but now that is changed. This is a long
letter for me; rub your hands, boy, for 'tis an honour.--Yours, from Charon's strand,

     R. L. S.

TO EDMUND GOSSE

   A poetical counterpart to this letter will be found in the piece
   beginning 'Not yet, my soul, these friendly fields desert,' which was
   composed at the same time and is printed in Underwoods.

  [24] Pall Mall Gazette.

  [25] Here follows a long calculation of ways and means.

  [26] Addison's.

  [27] In reference to the father's estrangement at this time, Sir James
    Dewar, an old friend of the elder Stevenson, tells a story which
    would have touched R. L. S. infinitely had he heard it. Sir James
    (then Professor) Dewar and Mr. Thomas Stevenson were engaged
    together on some official scientific work near Duns in Berwickshire.
    "Spending the evening together," writes Sir James, "at an hotel in
    Berwick-on-Tweed, the two, after a long day's work, fell into close
    fireside talk over their toddy, and Mr. Stevenson opened his heart
    upon what was to him a very sore grievance. He spoke with anger and
    dismay of his son's journey and intentions, his desertion of the old
    firm, and taking to the devious and barren paths of literature. The
    Professor took up the cudgels in the son's defence, and at last, by
    way of ending the argument, half jocularly offered to wager that in
    ten years from that moment R. L. S. would be earning a bigger income
    than the old firm had ever commanded. To his surprise, the father
    became furious, and repulsed all attempts at reconciliation. But six
    and a half years later, Mr. Stevenson, broken in health, came to
    London to seek medical advice, and although so feeble that he had to
    be lifted out and into his cab, called at the Royal Institute to see
    the Professor. He said: "I am here to consult a doctor, but I
    couldna be in London without coming to shake your hand and confess
    that you were richt after a' about Louis, and I was wrang." The
    frail old frame shook with emotion, and he muttered, "I ken this is
    my last visit to the south." A few weeks later he was dead. Of her new family, the Mrs. Robert Louis
Stevenson brought thus strangely and from far into their midst made an
immediate conquest. To her husband's especial happiness, there sprang up
between her and his father the closest possible affection and
confidence. Parents and friends--if it is permissible to one of the
latter to say as much--rejoiced to recognise in Stevenson's wife a
character as strong, interesting, and romantic almost as his own; an
inseparable sharer of all his thoughts and staunch companion of all his
adventures; the most open-hearted of friends to all who loved him; the
most shrewd and stimulating critic of his work; and in sickness, despite
her own precarious health, the most devoted and most efficient of
nurses.

From Liverpool the Stevenson party went on to make a stay in Scotland, first at Edinburgh,
and afterwards for a few weeks at Strathpeffer, resting at Blair Athol on the way. It was now,
in his thirtieth year, among the woods of Tummelside and under the shoulder of Ben Wyvis, that
Stevenson acknowledged for the first time the full power and beauty of the Highland scenery,
which in youth, with his longings fixed ever upon the South, he had been accustomed to think
too bleak and desolate. In the history of the country and its clans, on the other hand, and
especially of their political and social transformation during the eighteenth century, he had
been always keenly interested. In conversations with Principal Tulloch at Strathpeffer this
interest was now revived, and he resolved to attempt a book on the subject, his father undertaking
to keep him supplied with books and authorities; for it had quickly become apparent that he
could not winter in Scotland. The state of his health continued to be very threatening. He
suffered from acute chronic catarrh, accompanied by disquieting lung symptoms and great weakness;
and was told accordingly that he must go for the winter, and probably for several succeeding
winters, to the mountain valley of Davos in Switzerland, which within the last few years had
been coming into repute as a place of recovery, or at least of arrested mischief, for lung
patients. Thither he and his wife and stepson travelled accordingly at the end of October.
Nor must another member of the party be forgotten, a black thoroughbred Skye terrier, the gift
of Sir Walter Simpson. This creature was named, after his giver, Walter--a name subsequently
corrupted into Wattie, Woggie, Wogg, Woggin, Bogie, Bogue, and a number of other affectionate
diminutives which will be found occurring often enough in the following pages. He was a remarkably
pretty, engaging, excitable, ill-behaved little specimen of his race, the occasion of infinite
anxiety and laughing care to his devoted master and mistress until his death six years later.

The Davos of 1880, approached by an eight-hours' laborious drive up the valley of the Prättigau,
was a very different place from the extended and embellished Davos of to-day, with its railway,
its modern shops, its electric lighting, and its crowd of winter visitors bent on outdoor and
indoor entertainment. The Stevensons' quarters for the first winter were at the Hotel Belvedere,
then a mere nucleus of the huge establishment it has since become. Besides the usual society
of an invalid hotel, with its mingled tragedies and comedies, they had there the great advantage
of the presence, in a neighbouring house, of an accomplished man of letters and one of the
most charming of companions, John Addington Symonds, with his family. Mr. Symonds, whose health
had been desperate before he tried the place, was a living testimony to its virtues, and was
at this time engaged in building the chalet which became his home until he died fourteen years
later. During Stevenson's first season at Davos, though his mind was full of literary enterprises,
he was too ill to do much actual work. For the Highland history he read much, but composed
little or nothing, and eventually this history went to swell the long list of his unwritten
books. He saw through the press his first volume of collected essays, Virginibus Puerisque,
which came out early in 1881; wrote the essays Samuel Pepys and The Morality of the Profession
of Letters, for the Cornhill and the Fortnightly Review respectively, and sent to the Pall
Mall Gazette the papers on the life and climate of Davos, posthumously reprinted in Essays
of Travel. Beyond this, he only amused himself with verses, some of them afterwards published
in Underwoods. Leaving the Alps at the end of April 1881, he returned, after a short stay in
France (at Fontainebleau, Paris, and St. Germain), to his family in Edinburgh. Thence the whole
party again went to the Highlands, this time to Pitlochry and Braemar.

During the summer Stevenson heard of the intended retirement of Professor Æneas Mackay from
the chair of History and Constitutional Law at Edinburgh University. He determined, with the
encouragement of the outgoing professor and of several of his literary friends, to become a
candidate for the post, which had to be filled by the Faculty of Advocates from among their
own number. The duties were limited to the delivery of a short course of lectures in the summer
term, and Stevenson thought that he might be equal to them, and might prove, though certainly
a new, yet perhaps a stimulating, type of professor. But knowing the nature of his public reputation,
especially in Edinburgh, where the recollection of his daft student days was as yet stronger
than the impression made by his recent performances in literature, he was well aware that his
candidature must seem paradoxical, and stood little chance of success. The election took place
in the late autumn of the same year, and he was defeated, receiving only three votes.

At Pitlochry Stevenson was for a while able to enjoy his life and to work well, writing two
of the strongest of his short stories of Scottish life and superstition, Thrawn Janet and The
Merry Men, originally designed to form part of a volume to be written by himself and his wife
in collaboration. At Braemar he made a beginning of the nursery verses which afterwards grew
into the volume called The Child's Garden, and conceived and half executed the fortunate project
of Treasure Island, the book which was destined first to make him famous. But one of the most
inclement of Scottish summers had before long undone all the good gained in the previous winter
at Davos, and in the autumn of the year 1881 he repaired thither again.

This time his quarters were in a small chalet belonging to the proprietors of the Buol Hotel,
the Chalet am Stein, or Chalet Buol, in the near neighbourhood of the Symonds's house. The
beginning of his second stay was darkened by the serious illness of his wife; nevertheless
the winter was one of much greater literary activity than the last. A Life of Hazlitt was projected,
and studies were made for it, but for various reasons the project was never carried out. Treasure
Island was finished; the greater part of the Silverado Squatters written; so were the essays
Talk and Talkers, A Gossip on Romance, and several other of his best papers for magazines.
By way of whim and pastime he occupied himself, to his own and his stepson's delight, with
a little set of woodcuts and verses printed by the latter at his toy press--"The Davos Press,"
as they called it--as well as with mimic campaigns carried on between the man and boy with
armies of lead soldiers in the spacious loft which filled the upper floor of the chalet. For
the first and almost the only time in his life there awoke in him during these winters in Davos
the spirit of lampoon; and he poured forth sets of verses, not without touches of a Swiftean
fire, against commercial frauds in general, and those of certain local tradesmen in particular,
as well as others in memory of a defunct publican of Edinburgh who had been one of his butts
in youth (Casparidea and Brashiana, both unpublished: see pp. 14, 15, 38 in vol. 24 of the
present edition). Finally, much revived in health by the beneficent air of the Alpine valley,
he left it again in mid-spring of 1882, to return once more to Scotland, and to be once more
thrown back to, or below, the point whence he had started. After a short excursion from Edinburgh
into the Appin country, where he made inquiries on the spot into the traditions concerning
the murder of Campbell of Glenure, his three resting-places in Scotland during this summer
were Stobo Manse near Peebles, Lochearnhead, and Kingussie. At Stobo the dampness of the season
and the place quickly threw him again into a very low state of health, from which three subsequent
weeks of brilliant sunshine in Speyside did but little to restore him. In spite of this renewed
breakdown, when autumn came he would not face the idea of returning for a third season to Davos.
He had himself felt deeply the austerity and monotony of the white Alpine world in winter;
and though he had unquestionably gained in health there, his wife on her part had suffered
much. So he made up his mind once again to try the Mediterranean coast of France, and Davos
knew him no more.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   I forget what were the two sets of verses (apparently satirical) here
   mentioned. The volume of essays must be Virginibus Puerisque,
   published the following spring; but it is dedicated in prose to W. E.
   Henley.

     Ben Wyvis Hotel, Strathpeffer [July 1880].

MY DEAR COLVIN,--One or two words. We are here: all goes exceeding well with the wife and with
the parents. Near here is a valley; birch woods, heather, and a stream; I have lain down and
died; no country, no place, was ever for a moment so delightful to my soul. And I have been
a Scotchman all my life, and denied my native land! Away with your gardens of roses, indeed!
Give me the cool breath of Rogie waterfall, henceforth and for ever, world without end.

I enclose two poems of, I think, a high order. One is my dedication for my essays; it was occasioned
by that delicious article in the Spectator. The other requires no explanation; c'est tout bonnement
un petit chef d'oeuvre de grâce, de délicatesse, et de bon sens humanitaire. Celui qui ne s'en
sent pas touché jusqu'aux larmes--celui-là n'a pas vécu. I wish both poems back, as I am copyless:
but they might return via Henley.

My father desires me still to withdraw the Emigrant. Whatever may be the pecuniary loss, he
is willing to bear it; and the gain to my reputation will be considerable.

I am writing against time and the post runner. But you know what kind messages we both send
to you. May you have as good a time as possible so far from Rogie!

     R. L. S.

TO CHARLES BAXTER

   A further stay at Strathpeffer led to disenchantment, not with
   outdoor nature but with human nature as there represented, and he
   relieves his feelings as  follows:--

     Ben Wyvis Hotel, Strathpeffer, July 1880.

MY DEAR CHERLS,--I am well but have a little over-tired myself which is disgusting. This is
a heathenish place near delightful places, but inhabited, alas! by a wholly bestial crowd.

ON SOME GHOSTLY COMPANIONS AT A SPA

  I had an evil day when I
  To Strathpeffer drew anigh,
  For there I found no human soul,
  But Ogres occupied the whole.
  They had at first a human air
  In coats and flannel underwear.
  They rose and walked upon their feet
  And filled their bellies full of meat,
  Then wiped their lips when they had done--
  But they were ogres every one.
  Each issuing from his secret bower
  I marked them in the morning hour.
  By limp and totter, list and droop,
  I singled each one from the group.
  Detected ogres, from my sight
  Depart to your congenial night
  From these fair vales: from this fair day
  Fleet, spectres, on your downward way,
  Like changing figures in a dream
  To Muttonhole and Pittenweem!
  Or, as by harmony divine
  The devils quartered in the swine,
  If any baser place exist
  In God's great registration list--
  Some den with wallow and a trough--
  Find it, ye ogres, and be off!

     Yours, R. L. S.

TO ISOBEL STRONG

   Further letters from Scotland during these months are lacking. The
   next was written, in answer to an inquiry from his stepdaughter at
   San Francisco, on the second day after his arrival at Davos.

     Hotel Belvedere, Davos, November 1880.

No my che-ild--not Kamschatka this trip, only the top of the Alps, or thereby; up in a little
valley in a wilderness of snowy mountains; the Rhine not far from us, quite a little highland
river; eternal snow-peaks on every hand. Yes; just this once I should like to go to the Vienna
gardens[28] with the family and hear Tweedledee and drink something and see Germans--though
God knows we have seen Germans enough this while back. Naturally some in the Customs House
on the Alsatian frontier, who would have made one die from laughing in a theatre, and provoked
a smile from us even in that dismal juncture. To see them, big, blond, sham-Englishmen, but
with an unqualifiable air of not quite fighting the sham through, diving into old women's bags
and going into paroxysms of arithmetic in white chalk, three or four of them (in full uniform)
in full cry upon a single sum, with their brows bent and a kind of arithmetical agony upon
their mugs. Madam, the diversion of cock-fighting has been much commended, but it was not a
circumstance to that Custom House. They only opened one of our things: a basket. But when they
met from within the intelligent gaze of Woggs, they all lay down and died. Woggs is a fine dog....

God bless you! May coins fall into your coffee and the finest wines and wittles lie smilingly
about your path, with a kind of dissolving view of fine scenery by way of background; and may
all speak well of you--and me too for that matter--and generally all things be ordered unto
you totally regardless of expense and with a view to nothing in the world but enjoyment, edification,
and a portly and honoured age.--Your dear papa,

     R. L. S.

TO A. G. DEW-SMITH

   This, from the same place and about the same date, is addressed by
   way of thanks to a friend at Cambridge, the late Mr. A. G. Dew-Smith,
   who had sent him a present of a box of cigarettes. Mr. Dew-Smith, a
   man of fine artistic tastes and mechanical genius, with a silken,
   somewhat foreign, urbanity of bearing, was the original, so far as
   concerns manner and way of speech, of Attwater in the Ebb-Tide.

     R. L. S.

TO THOMAS STEVENSON

   R. L. S. here sketches for his father the plan of the work on
   Highland history which they had discussed together in the preceding
   summer, and which Principal Tulloch had urged him to attempt. I see from the doctor's
report that I have more actual disease than I supposed; but there seems
little doubt of my recovery. I like the place and shall like it much
better when you come at Christmas. That is written on my heart: S. C.
comes at Christmas: so if you play me false, I shall have a lie upon my
conscience. I like Symonds very well, though he is much, I think, of an
invalid in mind and character. But his mind is interesting, with many
beautiful corners, and his consumptive smile very winning to see. We
have had some good talks; one went over Zola, Balzac, Flaubert, Whitman,
Christ, Handel, Milton, Sir Thomas Browne; do you see the liaison?--in
another, I, the Bohnist, the un-Grecian, was the means of his conversion
in the matter of the Ajax. It is truly not for nothing that I have read
my Buckley.[32]

To-day the south wind blows; and I am seedy in consequence.

Later.--I want to know when you are coming, so as to get you a room. You will toboggan and
skate your head off, and I will talk it off, and briefly if you don't come pretty soon, I will
cut you off with a shilling.

It would be handsome of you to write. The doctor says I may be as well as ever; but in the
meantime I go slow and am fit for little.--Ever yours,

     R. L. S.

TO EDMUND GOSSE

   The suggestions contained in the following two letters to Mr. Gosse
   refer to the collection of English Odes which that gentleman was then
   engaged in editing (Kegan Paul, 1881).

     R. L. S.

TO CHARLES WARREN STODDARD

   The prospect here alluded to of a cheap edition of the little
   travel-books did not get realised. The volume of essays in the
   printer's hands was Virginibus Puerisque. I do not know what were
   the pages in broad Scots copied by way of enclosure.

TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   The verses here mentioned to Dr. John Brown (the admired author of
   Rab and his Friends) were meant as a reply to a letter of
   congratulation on the Inland Voyage received from him the year
   before. They are printed in Underwoods.

     Hotel Belvedere, Davos, December 21, 1880. Christmas Sermon.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   I did go out to Davos after all in January, and found Stevenson
   apparently little improved in health, and depressed by a sad turn of
   destiny which had brought out his old friend Mrs. Sitwell to the same
   place, at the same time, to watch beside the deathbed of her son--the
   youth commemorated in the verses headed F. A. S., In Memoriam,
   afterwards published in Underwoods. The following letter refers to
   a copy of Carlyle's Reminiscences which I had sent him some time
   after I came back to England.

TO HORATIO F. BROWN

   A close intimate of J. A. Symonds, and frequent visitor at Davos, was
   Mr. Horatio F. Brown, author of Life on the Lagoons, etc. He took
   warmly, as did every one, to Stevenson. The following two notes are
   from a copy of Penn's Fruits of Solitude, printed at Philadelphia,
   which Stevenson sent him as a gift this winter after his return to
   Venice.

     R. L. S.

TO HORATIO F. BROWN

   The following experiment in English alcaics was suggested by
   conversations with Mr. Brown and J. A. Symonds on metrical forms,
   followed by the despatch of some translations from old Venetian
   boat-songs by the former after his return to Venice.

TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   Monte Generoso was given up; and on the way home to Scotland
   Stevenson had stopped for a while at Fontainebleau, and then in
   Paris; whence, finding himself unpleasantly affected by the climate,
   he presently took refuge at St. Germain. The inquiries about the later life of Jean Cavalier, the
   Protestant leader in the Cévennes, refer to a literary scheme,
   whether of romance or history I forget, which had been in his mind
   ever since the Travels with a Donkey.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   Work on a series of tales of terror, or, as he called them,
   "crawlers," planned in collaboration with his wife, soon superseded
   for the moment other literary interests in his mind. Thrawn Janet
   and the Body-Snatchers were the only two of the set completed under
   their original titles: The Wreck of the Susanna contained, I think,
   the germ of The Merry Men.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

     Kinnaird Cottage, Pitlochry [June 1881].

MY DEAR S. C.,--Great and glorious news. Your friend, the bold unfearing chap, Aims at a professorial
cap, And now besieges, do and dare, The Edinburgh History chair. Three months in summer only
it Will bind him to that windy bit; The other nine to arrange abroad, Untrammel'd in the eye
of God. Mark in particular one thing: He means to work that cursed thing, and to the golden
youth explain Scotland and England, France and Spain.

In short, sir, I mean to try for this chair. I do believe I can make something out of it. It
will be a pulpit in a sense; for I am nothing if not moral, as you know. My works are unfortunately
so light and trifling they may interfere. But if you think, as I think, I am fit to fight it,
send me the best kind of testimonial stating all you can in favour of me and, with your best
art, turning the difficulty of my never having done anything in history, strictly speaking.
Second, is there anybody else, think you, from whom I could wring one--I mean, you could wring
one for me. Any party in London or Cambridge who thinks well enough of my little books to back
me up with a few heartfelt words? Jenkin approves highly; but says, pile in English testimonials.
Now I only know Stephen, Symonds, Lang, Gosse and you, and Meredith, to be sure. The chair
is in the gift of the Faculty of Advocates, where I believe I am more wondered at than loved.
I do not know the foundation; one or two hundred, I suppose. But it would be a good thing for
me, out and out good. Help me to live, help me to work, for I am the better of pressure, and
help me to say what I want about God, man and life.

     R. L. S.

Heart-broken trying to write rightly to people.

History and Constitutional Law is the full style.

TO EDMUND GOSSE

     Kinnaird Cottage, Pitlochry, June 24,1881.

TO CHARLES J. GUTHRIE

   The next two letters are addressed to an old friend and fellow-member
   of the Speculative Society, who had passed Advocate six years before,
   on the same day as R. L. S. himself, and is now Lord Guthrie, a
   Senator of the Scottish Courts of Justice, and has Swanston Cottage,
   sacred to the memory of R. L. S., for his summer home.

     Kinnaird Cottage, Pitlochry, June 30, 1881.

MY DEAR GUTHRIE,--I propose to myself to stand for Mackay's chair. I can promise that I will
not spare to work. If you can see your way to help me, I shall be glad; and you may at least
not mind making my candidature known.--Believe me, yours sincerely,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO CHARLES J. GUTHRIE

     Kinnaird Cottage, Pitlochry, July 2nd, 1881.

MY DEAR GUTHRIE,--Many thanks for your support, and many more for the kindness and thoughtfulness
of your letter. I shall take your advice in both directions; presuming that by "electors" you
mean the curators. I must see to this soon; and I feel it would also do no harm to look in
at the P.H.[36] As soon then as I get through with a piece of work that both sits upon me like
a stone and attracts me like a piece of travel, I shall come to town and go a-visiting. Testimonial-hunting
is a queer form of sport--but has its pleasures.

If I got that chair, the Spec. would have a warm defender near at hand! The sight of your fist
made me Speculative on the past.--Yours most sincerely,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO W. E. HENLEY

   The spell of good health did not last long, and with a break of the
   weather came a return of catarrhal troubles and hemorrhage.

     R. L. S.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   The reference to Landor in the following is to a volume of mine in
   Macmillan's series English Men of Letters.

Yours ever,

     R. L. S.

TO DR. ALEXANDER JAPP

   Dr. Japp (known in literature at this date and for some time
   afterwards under his pseudonym H. A. Page; later under his own name
   the biographer of De Quincey) had written to R. L. S. criticising
   statements of fact and opinion in his essay on Thoreau, and
   expressing the hope that they might meet and discuss their
   differences. In the interval between the last letter and this
   Stevenson with all his family had moved to Braemar.

TO DR. ALEXANDER JAPP

   This correspondent had paid his visit as proposed, discussed the
   Thoreau differences, listened delightedly to the first chapters of
   Treasure Island, and proposed to offer the story for publication
   to his friend Mr. Henderson, proprietor and editor of Young Folks.

TO W. E. HENLEY

   This tells of the farther progress of Treasure Island, of the price
   paid for it, and of the modest hopes with which it was launched. "The
   poet" is Mr. Gosse. The project of a highway story, Jerry Abershaw,
   remained a favourite one with Stevenson until it was superseded three
   or four years later by another, that of the Great North Road, which
   in its turn had to be abandoned, from lack of health and leisure,
   after some six or eight chapters had been written.

     Braemar, September 1881.

MY DEAR HENLEY,--Thanks for your last. The £100 fell through, or dwindled at least into somewhere
about £30.

     R. L. S.

TO W. E. HENLEY

   Stevenson's uncle, Dr. George Balfour, had recommended him to wear a
   specially contrived and hideous respirator for the inhalation of
   pine-oil.

     Braemar, 1881.

  Dear Henley, with a pig's snout on
  I am starting for London,
  Where I likely shall arrive,
  On Saturday, if still alive:
  Perhaps your pirate doctor might
  See me on Sunday? If all's right,
  I should then lunch with you and with she
  Who's dearer to you than you are to me.
  I shall remain but little time
  In London, as a wretched clime,
  But not so wretched (for none are)
  As that of beastly old Braemar.
  My doctor sends me skipping. I
  Have many facts to meet your eye.
  My pig's snout's now upon my face;
  And I inhale with fishy grace,
  My gills outflapping right and left,
  Ol. pin. sylvest. I am bereft
  Of a great deal of charm by this--
  Not quite the bull's eye for a kiss--
  But like a gnome of olden time
  Or bogey in a pantomime.
  For ladies' love I once was fit,
  But now am rather out of it.
  Where'er I go, revolted curs
  Snap round my military spurs;
  The children all retire in fits
  And scream their bellowses to bits.
  Little I care: the worst's been done:
  Now let the cold impoverished sun
  Drop frozen from his orbit; let
  Fury and fire, cold, wind and wet,
  And cataclysmal mad reverses
  Rage through the federate universes;
  Let Lawson triumph, cakes and ale,
  Whisky and hock and claret fail;--
  Tobacco, love, and letters perish,
  With all that any man could cherish:
  You it may touch, not me. I dwell
  Too deep already--deep in hell;
  And nothing can befall, O damn!
  To make me uglier than I am.

   R. L. S.

This-yer refers to an ori-nasal respirator for the inhalation of pine-wood oil, oleum pini
sylvestris.

TO THOMAS STEVENSON

   With all his throat and lung troubles actively renewed, Stevenson
   fled to Davos again in October. This time he and his wife and stepson
   occupied a small house by themselves, the Chalet am Stein, near the
   Buol Hotel. The election to the Edinburgh Professorship was still
   pending, and the following note to his father shows that he thought
   for a moment of giving the electors a specimen of his qualifications
   in the shape of a magazine article on the Appin murder--a theme
   afterwards turned to more vital account in the tales of Kidnapped
   and Catriona.

     Davos Printing Office, managed by Samuel Lloyd Osbourne & Co., The
        Chalet [Nov. 9, 1881].

DEAR WEG,--If you are taking Young Folks, for God's Sake Twig the editorial style; it is incredible;
we are all left panting in the rear; twig, O twig it. His name is Clinton; I should say the
most melodious prosewriter now alive; it's like buttermilk and blacking; it sings and hums
away in that last sheet, like a great old kettle full of bilge water. You know: none of us
could do it, boy. See No. 571, last page: an article called "Sir Claude the Conqueror," and
read it aloud in your best rhythmic tones; mon cher, c'est épatant.

Observe in the same number, how Will J. Shannon girds at your poor friend; and how the rhythmic
Clinton steps chivalrously forth in his defence. First the Rev. Purcell; then Will J. Shannon:
thick fall the barbéd arrows.[42]

I wish I could play a game of chess with you.

If I survive, I shall have Clinton to dinner: it is plain I must make hay while the sun shines;
I shall not long keep a footing in the world of penny writers, or call them obolists. It is
a world full of surprises, a romantic world. Weg, I was known there; even I. The obolists,
then, sometimes peruse our works. It is only fair; since I so much batten upon theirs. Talking
of which, in Heaven's name, get The Bondage of Brandon (3 vols.) by Bracebridge Hemming. It's
the devil and all for drollery. There is a Superior (sic) of the Jesuits, straight out of Skelt.

And now look here, I had three points: Clinton--disposed of--(2nd) Benj. Franklin--do you want
him? (3rd) A radiant notion begot this morning over an atlas: why not, you who know the lingo,
give us a good legendary and historical book on Iceland? It would, or should, be as romantic
as a book of Scott's; as strange and stirring as a dream. Think on't. My wife screamed with
joy at the idea; and the little Lloyd clapped his hands; so I offer you three readers on the spot.

Fanny and I have both been in bed, tended by the hired sick nurse; Lloyd has a broken finger
(so he did not clap his hands literally); Wogg has had an abscess in his ear; our servant is
a devil.--I am yours ever, with both of our best regards to Mrs. Gosse,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON,
       The Rejected Obolist.

TO W. E. HENLEY

   This letter speaks of contributions to the Magazine of Art (in these
   years edited by Mr. Henley) from J. A. Symonds and from R. L. S.
   himself, "Bunyan" meaning the essay on the cuts in Bagster's edition
   of the Pilgrim's Progress. A toy press had just been set up in the
   chalet for the lad Lloyd.

DEAR HENLEY,--I have done better for you than you deserved to hope; the Venice Medley is withdrawn;
and I have a Monte Oliveto (short) for you, with photographs and sketches. I think you owe
luck a candle; for this no skill could have accomplished without the aid of accident.

How about carving and gilding? I have nearly killed myself over Bunyan; and am too tired to
finish him to-day, as I might otherwise have done. For his back is broken. For some reason,
it proved one of the hardest things I ever tried to write; perhaps--but no--I have no theory
to offer--it went against the spirit. But as I say I girt my loins up and nearly died of it.

In five weeks, six at the latest, I should have a complete proof of Treasure Island. It will
be from 75 to 80,000 words; and with anything like half good pictures, it should sell. I suppose
I may at least hope for eight pic's? I aspire after ten or twelve. You had better

--Two days later.

Bunyan skips to-day, pretty bad, always with an official letter. Yours came last night. I had
already spotted your Dickens; very pleasant and true.

My wife is far from well; quite confined to bed now; drain poisoning. I keep getting better
slowly; appetite dicky; but some days I feel and eat well. The weather has been hot and heartless
and unDavosy.

I shall give Symonds his note in about an hour from now.

Have done so; he will write of Vesalius and of Botticelli's Dante for you.

Morris's Sigurd is a grrrrreat poem; that is so. I have cried aloud at this re-reading; he
had fine stuff to go on, but he has touched it, in places, with the hand of a master. Yes.
Regin and Fafnir are incredibly fine. Love to all.--Yours ever,

     R. L. S.

TO P. G. HAMERTON

  The volume of republished essays here mentioned is Familiar
  Studies of Men and Books. "The silly story of the election" refers
  again to his correspondent's failure as a candidate for the Edinburgh
  Chair of Fine Arts.

TO CHARLES BAXTER

   The memory here evoked of Brash the publican, who had been a special
   butt for some of the youthful pranks of R. L. S. and his friends,
   inspired in the next few weeks the sets of verses mentioned below
   (vol. 24, pp. 14, 15, 38) in letters which show that the fictitious
   Johnson and Thomson were far from being dead.

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

   The next is after going down to meet his wife and stepson, when the
   former had left the doctor's hands at Berne.

     Hotel Buol, Davos, Dec. 26, 1881.

MY DEAR GOSSE,--I have just brought my wife back, through such cold, in an open sleigh too,
as I had never fancied to exist. I won't use the word torture, but go to your dentist's and
in nine cases out of ten you will not suffer more pain than we suffered.

This is merely in acknowledgment of your editorial: to say that I shall give my mind at once
to the Murder. But I bethink me you can say so much and convey my sense of the liberality of
our Cousins, without exhibiting this scrawl. So I may go on to tell you that I have at last
found a publisher as eager to publish, as I am to write a Hazlitt. Bentley is the Boy; and
very liberal, at least, as per last advices; certainly very friendly and eager, which makes
work light, like whistling. I wish I was with the rest of--well, of us--in the red books. But
I am glad to get a whack at Hazlitt, howsoe'er.

How goes your Gray? I would not change with you; brother! Gray would never be suited to my
temperament, while Hazlitt fits me like a glove.

I hope in your studies in Young Folks you did not miss the delicious reticences, the artistic
concealments, and general fine-shade graduation, through which the fact of the Xmas Nr. being
3d. was instilled--too strong--inspired into the mind of the readers. It was superb.

I may add as a postscript: I wish to God I or anybody knew what was the matter with my wife.--Yours
ever,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

     [Chalet am Stein, Davos-Platz, March 1882.]

MY DEAR COLVIN,--Herewith Moral Emblems. The elephant by Fanny--the rest by me.

I would have sent it long ago. But I must explain. I brought home with me from my bad times
in America two strains of unsoundness of mind, the first, a perpetual fear that I can do no
more work--the second, a perpetual fear that my friends have quarrelled with me.[43] This last
long silence of yours drove me into really believing it, and I dared not write to you.

Well, it's ancient history now, and here are the emblems. A second series is in the press.

Silverado is still unfinished; but I think I have done well on the whole, as you say. I shall
be home, I hope, sometime in May, perhaps before; it depends on Fanny's health, which is still
far from good and often alarms me. I shall then see your collectanea. I shall not put pen to
paper till I settle somewhere else; Hazlitt had better simmer awhile. I have to see Ireland
too, who has most kindly written to me and invited me to see his collections.

Symonds grows much on me: in many ways, what you would least expect, a
very sound man, and very wise in a wise way. Very soon afterwards he entered into
   relations with them which proved equally pleasant and profitable to
   both parties, and were continued on the most cordial terms until his
   death.

     R. L. S.

TO MRS. GOSSE

   Mrs. Gosse had sent R. L. S. a miniature Bible illustrated with rude
   cuts, picked up at an outdoor stall. "Lloyd's new work" is Black
   Canyon.

     [Chalet am Stein, Davos, March 16, 1882.]

DEAR MRS. GOSSE,--Thank you heartily for the Bible, which is exquisite. I thoroughly appreciate
the whole; but have you done justice to the third lion in Daniel (like the third murderer in
Macbeth)--a singular animal--study him well. The soldier in the fiery furnace beats me.

I enclose a programme of Lloyd's new work. The work I shall send to-morrow, for the publisher
is out and I dare not touch his "plant": il m'en cuirait. The work in question I think a huge
lark, but still droller is the author's attitude. Not one incident holds with another from
beginning to end; and whenever I discover a new inconsistency, Sam is the first to laugh--with
a kind of humorous pride at the thing being so silly.

I saw the note, and I was so sorry my article had not come in time for the old lady. We should
all hurry up and praise the living. I must praise Tupper. A propos, did you ever read him?--or
know any one who had? That is very droll; but the truth is we all live in a clique, buy each
other's books and like each other's books; and the great, gaunt, grey, gaping public snaps
its big fingers and reads Talmage and Tupper--and Black Canyon.

My wife is better; I, for the moment, am but so-so myself; but the printer is in very--how
shall we say?--large type at this present, and the sound of the press never ceases. Remember
me to Weg.--Yours very truly,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

                    NOTICE
  To-day is published by S. L. Osbourne & Co.
                  ILLUSTRATED
                 BLACK CANYON,

                      or
       WILD ADVENTURES IN THE FAR WEST.

                      An
   Instructive and amusing TALE written by
            Samuel Lloyd Osbourne
                   Price 6d.

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS

Although Black Canyon is rather shorter than ordinary for that kind of story, it is an excellent
work. We cordially recommend it to our readers.--Weekly Messenger.

S. L. Osbourne's new work (Black Canyon) is splendidly illustrated. In the story, the characters
are bold and striking. It reflects the highest honour on its writer.--Morning Call.

A very remarkable work. Every page produces an effect. The end is as singular as the beginning.
I never saw such a work before.--R. L. Stevenson.

TO SIDNEY COLVIN

   I had written to him of the proposal that I should do the volume on
   Keats for Macmillan's English Men of Letters series. From his
   essay, Talk and Talkers, I was eventually left out.

     [Chalet am Stein, Davos-Platz, Spring 1882.]

DEAR COLVIN,--About Keats--well yes, I wonder; I see all your difficulties and yet, I have
the strongest kind of feeling that critical biography is your real vein. The Landor was one
nail; another, I think, would be good for you and the public. Indeed I would do the Keats.
He is worth doing; it is a brave and a sad little story, and the critical part lies deep in
the very vitals of art. All summed, I would do him; remember it is but a small order alongside
of Landor; and £100, and kudos, and a good word for the poor, great lad, who will otherwise
fall among the molluscs. Up, heart! give me a John Keats! Houghton, though he has done it with
grace, has scarce done it with grip.

I have put you into Talk and Talkers sure enough. God knows, I hope I shall offend nobody;
I do begin to quake mightily over that paper. I have a Gossip on Romance about done; it puts
some real criticism in a light way, I think. It is destined for Longman who (dead secret) is
bringing out a new Mag. (6d.) in the Autumn. Dead Secret: all his letters are three deep with
masks and passwords, and I swear on a skull daily. F. has reread Treasure I^d., against which
she protested; and now she thinks the end about as good as the beginning; only some six chapters
situate about the midst of the tale to be rewritten. This sounds hopefuller. My new long story,
The Adventures of John Delafield, is largely planned.

     R. L. S.

TO EDMUND GOSSE

   Stevenson and Mr. Gosse were still meditating a book in which some of
   the famous historical murder cases should be retold (see above, p.
   338). "Gray" and "Keats" are volumes in the English Men of Letters
   series.

TO DR. ALEXANDER JAPP

   The references in the first paragraph are to the volume Familiar
   Studies of Men and Books.

TO W. E. HENLEY

   From about this time until 1885 Mr. Henley acted in an informal way
   as agent for R. L. S. in most of his dealings with publishers in
   London. "Both" in the second paragraph means, I think, Treasure
   Island and Silverado Squatters. Taïaut! Hillo!
Hey! Stand by! Avast! Hurrah!

TO R. A. M. STEVENSON

     [Chalet am Stein, Davos-Platz, April 1882.]

MY DEAR BOB,--Yours received. I have received a communication by same mail from my mother,
clamouring for news, which I must answer as soon as I've done this. Of course, I shall paint
your game in lively colours.

I hope to get away from here--let me not speak of it ungratefully--from here--by Thursday at
latest. I am indeed much better; but a slip of the foot may still cast me back. I must walk
circumspectly yet awhile. But O to be able to go out and get wet, and not spit blood next day!

Yes, I remember the enfantement of the Arabian Nights; the first idea of all was the handsome
cabs, which I communicated to you in St. Leonard's Terrace drawing-room. That same afternoon
the Prince de Galles and the Suicide Club were invented; and several more now forgotten. I
must try to start 'em again.

Lloyd I believe is to be a printer--in the meantime he confines himself to being an expense.
He is a first-rate lad for all that. He is now interrupting me about twice to the line, which
does not condooce to clarity, I'm afraid.

Fanny is still far from well, quite far from well. My faith is in the Pirate.

I enclose all my artistic works; they are woodcuts--I cut them with a knife out of blocks of
wood: I am a wood-engraver; I aaaam a wooooood engraaaaver. Lloyd then prints 'em: are they
not fun? I doat on them; in my next venture, I am going to have colour printing; it will be
very laborious, six blocks to cut for each picter, but the result would be pyramidal.

If I get through the summer, I settle in Autumn in le pays de France; I believe in the Brittany
and become a Snoozer. You will come and snooze awhile won't you, and try and get Louisa to join.

Pepys was a decent fellow; singularly like Charles Baxter, by the way, in every character of
mind and taste, and not unlike him in face. I did not mean I had been too just to him but not
just enough to bigger swells. I would rather have known Pepys than the whole jing-bang; I doat
on him as a card to know.

We shall be pretty poor at the start, of course, but I guess we can haul through. Only intending
visitors to the Brittannic Castle must not look for nightingales' tongues. When next you see
the form of the jeune et beau pray give him my love, when I come to Weybridge, I'll hope to
see him.--Ever yours affectionately,

     R. L. STEVENSON, 1er Roi de Béotie.

      Pour copie conforme, Le sécrétaire Royale, W. P. BANNATYNE.

TO TREVOR HADDON

   The few remaining letters of this period are dated from Edinburgh and
   from Stobo Manse, near Peebles. This, in the matter of weather and
   health, was the most disappointing of all Stevenson's attempts at
   summer residence in Scotland. Before going to Stobo he made a short
   excursion with his father to Lochearnhead; and later spent some three
   weeks with me at Kingussie, but from neither place wrote any letters
   worth preserving. The following was addressed to a young art-student
   who had read the works of Walt Whitman after reading Stevenson's
   essay on him, and being staggered by some things he found there had
   written asking for further comment and counsel.

     17 Heriot Row, Edinburgh [June 1882].

DEAR SIR,--If I have in any way disquieted you, I believe you are justified in bidding me stand
and deliver a remedy if there be one: which is the point.

1st I am of your way of thinking: that a good deal of Whitman is as well taken once but 2nd
I quite believe that it is better to have everything brought before one in books. In that way
the problems reach us when we are cool, and not warped by the sophistries of an instant passion.
Life itself presents its problems with a terrible directness and at the very hour when we are
least able to judge calmly. Hence this Pisgah sight of all things, off the top of a book, is
only a rational preparation for the ugly grips that must follow.

But 3rd, no man can settle another's life for him. It is the test of the nature and courage
of each that he shall decide it for himself. Each in turn must meet and beard the Sphynx. Some
things however I must say--and you will treat them as things read in a book for you to accept
or refuse as you shall see most fit.

Go not out of your way to make difficulties. Hang back from life while you are young. Shoulder
no responsibilities. You do not yet know how far you can trust yourself--it will not be very
far, or you are more fortunate than I am. If you can keep your sexual desires in order, be
glad, be very glad. Some day, when you meet your fate, you will be free, and the better man.
Don't make a boy and girl friendship that which it is not. Look at Burns: that is where amourettes
conduct an average good man; and a tepid marriage is only a more selfish amourette--in the
long run. Whatever you do, see that you don't sacrifice a woman; that's where all imperfect
loves conduct us. At the same time, if you can make it convenient to be chaste, for God's sake,
avoid the primness of your virtue; hardness to a poor harlot is a sin lower than the ugliest
unchastity.

Never be in a hurry anyhow.

There is my sermon.

Certainly, you cannot too earnestly go in for the Greek; and about any art, think last of what
pays, first of what pleases. It is in that spirit only that an art can be made. Progress in
art is made by learning to enjoy it. That which seems a little dull at first, is found to contain
the elements of pleasure more largely though more quietly commingled.

I return to my sermon for one more word: Natural desire gives you no right to any particular
woman: that comes with love only, and don't be too ready to believe in love: there are many
shams: the true love will not allow you to reason about it.

It is your fault if I appear so pulpiteering.

Wishing you well in life and art, and that you may long be young.--Believe me, yours truly,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON. Your
letters have naturally given me much pleasure, for it seems to me you
are a pretty good young fellow, as young fellows go; and if I add that
you remind me of myself, you need not accuse me of retrospective vanity.

You now know an address which will always find me; you might let me have your address in London;
I do not promise anything--for I am always overworked in London--but I shall, if I can arrange
it, try to see you.

I am afraid I am not so rigid on chastity: you are probably right in your view; but this seems
to me a dilemma with two horns, the real curse of a man's life in our state of society--and
a woman's too, although, for many reasons, it appears somewhat differently with the enslaved
sex. By your "fate" I believe I meant your marriage, or that love at least which may befall
any one of us at the shortest notice and overthrow the most settled habits and opinions. I
call that your fate, because then, if not before, you can no longer hang back, but must stride
out into life and act.--Believe me, yours sincerely,

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

TO EDMUND GOSSE

   Mr. Gosse had mistaken the name of the Peeblesshire manse, and is
   reproached accordingly. "Gray" is Mr. Gosse's volume on that poet in
   Mr. Morley's series of English Men of Letters.

  [29] "The whole front of the house was lighted, and there were pipes
    and fiddles, and as much dancing and deray within as used to be in
    Sir Robert's house at Pace and Yule, and such high seasons."--See
    Wandering Willie's Tale in Redgauntlet, borrowed perhaps from
    Christ's Kirk of the Green.

  [30] The Davoser Landwasser.

  [31] In architecture, a series of piles to defend the pier of a bridge.

  [32] The translator of Sophocles in Bohn's Classics.

  [33] Anne Killigrew.

  [34] Gentleman's library.

  [35] i.e. breathed in, inhaled: a rare but legitimate use of the
    word.

  [36] Parliament House.

  [37]   "He knew the rocks where angels haunt,
          Upon the mountains visitant."

              Wordsworth's Song at the Feast of Brougham Castle.

  [38] Mr. Hamerton had been an unsuccessful candidate for the
    Professorship of Fine Art at Edinburgh University.

  [39] The Chalet am Stein (or Chalet Buol) at Davos.

  [40] In the summer of 1870: see above, pp. 24-30, and the essay
    Memories of an Islet in Memories and Portraits.

  [41] From Landor's Gebir: the line refers to Napoleon Bonaparte.

  [42] The Editor's defence was in the following terms: "That which
    you condemn is really the best story now appearing in the paper, and
    the impress of an able writer is stamped on every paragraph of the
    Treasure Island. You will probably share this opinion when you
    have read a little more of it."

  [43] I struggle as hard as I know how against both, but a judicious
    postcard would sometimes save me the expense of the second.

END OF VOL. XXIII.

