In 1820 Dr. James Lovell, Surgeon General of the Army, suggested to General Thayer, Superintendent
of the Military Academy at West Point, that Cutbush be appointed Chief Medical Officer at the
Academy and Post of West Point. In this capacity he served for seventeen months, when he became
Acting Professor of Chemistry and Mineralogy in the Academy. The first lecture in his new position
was delivered October 9, 1820. In a sense, it marked the beginning of a new career for Cutbush.
He resumed teaching duties, but gave himself more particularly to the study, not only of gunpowder,
which never ceased to be interesting to him, but to explosives of higher character, and in
this latter field he reached his greatest eminence and may confidently be regarded as a pioneer
in it.

Just before leaving Philadelphia, in the year 1820, Cutbush wrote Benjamin Silliman at some
length on an improvement of the Voltaic electrical lamp. It was an ingenious modification and
constituted the first contribution made by Cutbush to the American Journal of Science.

But, returning to his life at West Point, it may be observed that in 1822 he contributed his
second article to the Journal of Science, which did not appear in print, however, until 1824.
This article related to the composition and properties of the Chinese fire and the so-called
brilliant fires. It was very interesting. It displayed a thorough and wide knowledge of pyrotechnics
with which Cutbush, in previous years, had been gradually familiarizing himself. At one point
he said:

    "Most if not all the compositions used in fireworks,
    including military fireworks, were more the result of the
    labours of the artisan who was neither controlled by fixed
    principles nor by a knowledge of the effects and properties
    of bodies and of the systematic experiments of the chemist,
    and yet in consequence of some fortuitous and repeated trials
    we find that he has been successful, and moreover has amassed
    a body of facts which we may reasonably infer may either be
    rendered more perfect by knowledge or improved upon by the
    exact aid of chemical science."

Here is every proof of his purpose to apply his understanding of chemical principles and his
own experience to the solution of pyrotechnic problems, for he continues:

    "Pyrotechnics is at present considered under two heads,
    namely, fireworks for exhibition and military fireworks. The
    latter is undoubtedly the most useful, as it embraces a
    variety of propositions calculated for attack and defence
    both for naval and land service."

Almost simultaneously there appeared in the same Journal of Arts and Science another contribution
by Cutbush, entitled

    REMARKS CONCERNING THE COMPOSITION AND PROPERTIES OF THE
    GREEK FIRE

In the light of recent events and the use of all sorts of chemical bodies for warfare and destruction
it will not be uninteresting to introduce here a few paragraphs from this remarkable contribution.
He says:

    "The Greek fire was invented by Callinicus of Heliopolis, a
    town in Syria, who used it with so much skill and effect
    during a naval engagement that he destroyed a whole fleet of
    the enemy, in which were embarked 30,000 men.

    "It appears that in the reign of Louis XV, a chemist of
    Grenoble, Dupre de Mayen, discovered a composition similar in
    effect to the Greek fire of Callinicus, which was exhibited
    at Brest, and proved successful, but the preparation was kept
    secret. The original Greek fire was used in 1291, and also in
    1679.... Writers have defined it to be a sort of artificial
    fire, which burns with increased violence when it mixes with
    water.... That it was a liquid composition, we may infer from
    the modes of using it, which were several. It was employed
    chiefly on board of ships, and thrown on the vessels of the
    enemy by large engines. It was sometimes kindled in
    particular vessels, which might be called fire ships, and
    which were introduced among a hostile fleet. Sometimes it
    was put into jars and other vessels, and thrown at the enemy
    by means of projectile machines, and sometimes it was
    squirted by soldiers from hand engines, or blown through
    pipes. This fire was also discharged from the foreparts of
    ships by a machine constructed of copper and iron, the
    extremity of which is said to have resembled the open mouth
    and jaws of a lion or other animal. They were painted, and
    even gilded, and were capable of projecting the liquid fire
    to a great distance.

    "... John Cameniata, speaking of his native city,
    Thessalonica, which was taken by the Saracens in the year
    904, says that the enemy threw fire into the wooden works of
    the besieged, which was blown into them by means of tubes,
    and thrown from other vessels.... This proves that the
    Greeks, in the beginning of the Tenth Century, were no
    longer the only people acquainted with the art of preparing
    this fire, the precursor of our gunpowder. The Emperor Leo,
    who about the same period wrote his Art of War, recommends
    such engines, with a metal covering, to be constructed in the
    foreparts of ships, and he twice afterwards mentions engines
    for throwing out Greek fire.... For many centuries the method
    of making this dreadful article of destruction was lost; but
    it has just been discovered by the librarian of the elector
    of Bavaria, who has found a very old Latin manuscript which
    contains directions for preparing it.

    "... On the subject of incendiary and other military
    fireworks, the French have certainly laid the foundation for
    the very preparations now used by the British, for the
    formulæ for such preparations may be traced to the French
    service....

    "The Moors were in possession of the secret for preparing the
    Greek fire in 1432, according to the testimony of Brocquire.
    Bertrandon de la Brocquire was in Palestine in 1432 as
    counsellor to the Duke of Burgundy. He was present at Barrat
    during one of the Moorish celebrations. 'It began,' he
    remarks, 'in the evening at sunset. Numerous companies
    scattered here and there were singing, and uttering loud
    cries. While this was passing, the cannon of the castle was
    fired, and the people of the town launched into the air
    "bein haut et bein loin, une maniere de fue plus gros fellot
    que je veisse oncques allume." They told me they made use of
    such at sea, to set fire to the sails of an enemy's vessel.
    It seems to me that it is a thing easy to be made, and at a
    little expense it may be equally well employed to burn a
    camp or a thatched village, or in an engagement with cavalry
    to frighten their horses. Curious to know its composition, I
    sent the servant of my host to the person who made this fire,
    and requested him to teach me his method. He returned for
    answer, that he dare not, for that he should run great danger
    were it known; but there is nothing a man will not do for
    money. I offered him a ducat, which quieted his fears, and he
    taught me all he knew, and even gave me the moulds in wood,
    with the other ingredients, which I have brought to France.'
    ... When Constantinople was attacked, the Emperor Leo burnt
    the vessels or boats, to the number of one thousand eight
    hundred, by means of the Greek fire.... Its composition was
    kept secret at Constantinople, pretending that the knowledge
    of it came from an angel to the first and greatest of the
    Constantines, with a sacred injunction not to divulge it
    under any pretext, etc. It ... was kept secret above 400
    years ... was stolen by the Mahometans, who employed it
    against the Crusaders. It
    seems to be well calculated for close naval combat, if the
    object be to destroy the sails and rigging of an enemy's
    ship. The rapidity and extent of its combustion, added to the
    circumstances of its peculiar properties, that of resisting
    the action of water in particular, contribute altogether to
    this opinion."

The entire article from which these excerpts have been made is worthy of study, even at this
late date. It is suggestive and carries with it many historical references of value. The enthusiasm
of Cutbush for pyrotechnic bodies is manifest in every line of this publication.

About a year later (1823) Cutbush discussed the formation of cyanogen in processes not previously
noticed. He spoke of the appearance of this gas in the putrefaction of animal and vegetable
matter, making the following remarkable and in some respects startling statement:

    "I believe it would be found that the compound (carburet of
    azote) is the basis of the miasmata which produces malignant,
    bilious diseases.... Marsh miasmata are generally the cause
    of intermittent fevers. Now under particular circumstances of
    action may we not admit the generation of carburet of azote
    or cyanogen, and if so, as it readily unites with hydrogen,
    may it not be the miasma which produces malignant bilious
    fevers, since it is known that hydrocyanic acid is
    destructive to animal life and a most virulent poison?...
    Miasmata of some kind are the cause of yellow fever. For our
    part we believe it to be carburet of azote, or of some of its
    combinations, and of these that with hydrogen, from its
    deleterious character, seems to be the one."

Another observation made in this connection was that cyanogen is produced when charcoal is
heated with nitric acid. Cutbush stated that he placed charcoal and nitric acid together in
a retort and subjected them to distillation, collecting the product in Woulfe's bottles, after
which the resulting solutions were impregnated with potash, and

    "common sulphate and persulphate of iron introduced. The
    colour instantly changed and became more or less blue,
    proving the existence of the perferrocyanite of iron and,
    consequently, of cyanogen."

Having never met this method of preparing cyanogen, experiments were made in the writer's laboratory
to verify the statement. A blue, or what had the semblance of a blue color, could be obtained
at the point given by Cutbush, but just as soon as the solution was acidulated, as is always
done, the precipitate disappeared and there was not the slightest indication that Prussian
blue had been formed. Even after hours of rest there was not a sign of it.

Association on the part of Cutbush with the men of science in Philadelphia during the first
decade of the Nineteenth Century led to an extension of his interest in science circles, so
that during leisure moments at West Point (1824) he wrote of the following minerals observed
by him in and near that place:

    "Molybdenite, kaolin, tremolite, schorl, adularia, garnet,
    actinolite, precious serpentine (remarkably elegant), epidote
    and diallage."

Recently, attention has been called to a volume by Cutbush entitled "Lectures on the Adulteration
of Food and Culinary Poisons.... With a Means of Discovering Them and Rules for Determining
the Purity of Substances." It was published at Newburgh, N. Y., in 1823. The writer has never
seen this volume. His search for it has been unsuccessful.

Another publication was "A Synopsis of Chemistry, Arranged Alphabetically, Comprehending the
Names, Synonyms, and Definitions in that Science." New York: E. Lewis, 1821. This book is also
exceedingly rare.

The real magnum opus of Cutbush resulted in "A System of Pyrotechny" (1825), which voluminous
publication did not appear until after his decease, and then largely through the efforts of
his wife and former students in the Cadet Corps, for, in Silliman's Journal, this note appeared:

    "Mrs. Cutbush, widow of the late Dr. Cutbush, of West Point,
    proposes to publish by subscription a Treatise on Pyrotechny
    by her husband, Dr. James Cutbush.... By the reputation which
    Dr. Cutbush sustained, as well as by the ability which his
    elaborate treatises on these subjects already published in
    this journal display, there can be no doubt that this
    posthumous work will be worthy of the public patronage, which
    we hope will be liberally bestowed."

Even to-day this publication stands out preëminently and for years has been referred to by
artisans and by scientists. Chapters dealing with military fireworks have been seriously studied.
In the light of the violent fires, grenades, etc., used in the late war the writings of Cutbush
become very fascinating. They show that he truly blazed the way in this field. In the introduction
to this splendid volume he wrote:

    "On this head, that of the application of chemistry to
    pyrotechny, we claim so much originality, as, so far as we
    know, to have been the first, who applied the principles of
    chemistry.... As this subject, however interesting to the
    theoretical pyrotechnist, cannot be understood without a
    knowledge of chemistry, it is obvious that that science is a
    powerful aid to pyrotechny.... Viewing pyrotechny either as a
    science or an art, there is undoubtedly required in its
    prosecution much skill and practice. The mere artificer or
    fireworker by constant habit may understand, it is true, how
    to mix minerals, prepare composition, charge cases, etc., ...
    but without a knowledge of chemistry he cannot understand the
    theory.... Indeed, chemistry is indispensable to pyrotechny."

Much time and thought were given by Cutbush in the experimental development of this particular
subject in his own laboratory. In reading upon the subject he had collected a vast material
which was then put to crucial experimental tests. These, outside of his teaching hours, occupied
his whole attention.

An outline of how the work in the chemical department of the United States Military Academy
was conducted will not be devoid of interest.

    First Year

        Theory and Experimental Chemistry.

    Second Year

        Application of Chemistry to the Arts, Manufactures and
        Domestic Economy, constituting along with Mineralogy the
        second course.

Pyrotechny naturally was developed quite extensively. Teachers of chemistry will note with
pleasure the questions which Cutbush arranged for his student corps, particularly those questions
which had to do with pyrotechny:

    "What is saltpetre? What is nitric acid? What are the sources
    of saltpetre, and how it is obtained? How is it formed in
    nitre beds, extracted, and refined? What circumstances are
    necessary to produce nitre, and how does animal matter act in
    its production? What is the difference between the old and
    new process for refining saltpetre? What reagents are used to
    discover the presence of foreign substances in nitre? What
    are nitre caves? Where do they exist? What are the nitre
    caves of the western country, and how is nitre extracted from
    the earth? What proportion of nitre does the saltpetre of the
    nitrate caves afford? What is the theory of the process for
    extracting saltpetre from nitrous earth, or nitrate of lime?
    What is sulphur? How is it obtained, and how is it purified
    for the manufacture of gunpowder? Of what use is sulphur in
    the composition of gunpowder? Does it add to the effective
    force of gunpowder? What is charcoal? What is the best mode
    of carbonizing wood for the purpose of gunpowder? What woods
    are preferred for this purpose? In the charring of wood, what
    part is converted into coal, and what gas and acid are
    disengaged? What is the use of charcoal in gunpowder? What is
    gunpowder? What are considered the best proportions for
    forming it, and what constitutes the difference between
    powder for war, for gunning, and for mining? How does the
    combustion of gunpowder take place? Can you explain why
    combustion takes place without the presence of a gaseous
    supporter of combustion, as gunpowder will inflame in vacuo?
    What are the products of the combustion of gunpowder? What
    gases are generated? To what is the force of fired gunpowder
    owing? What are the experiments of Mr. Robins on the force of
    gunpowder? How would you separate the component parts of
    gunpowder so as to determine their proportions? What are
    gunpowder proofs? What is understood by the comparative force
    of gunpowder? What are eprouvettes, etc.? In noticing in the
    same manner the preparations used for fireworks, and for war,
    as the rocket, for instance, the following questions were
    propounded; viz., What is a rocket? How is it formed? Is the
    case always made of paper? What is the war rocket? What is
    the composition for rockets, and how does it act? What
    particular care is required in charging a rocket? What is the
    cause of the ascension of rockets? What is the use of the
    conical cavity, made in a rocket at the time it is charged,
    or bored out after it is charged? How do cases charged with
    composition impart motion to wheels, and other pieces of
    fireworks? What is understood by the rocket principle? What
    is the rocket stick and its use? Is the centre of gravity
    fixed, or is it shifting in the flight of rockets? How are
    rockets discharged? What is the head of a rocket? What is
    usually put in the head? Are all rockets furnished with a
    head? What is understood by the furniture of a rocket? How
    are the serpents, stars, fire-rain, etc., forming the
    furniture of a rocket, discharged into the air, when the
    rocket has terminated its flight, or arrived at its maximum
    of ascension? What forms the difference between a balloon, in
    fireworks, and a rocket? As the balloon contains also
    furniture, and is projected vertically from a mortar, how is
    fire communicated to it, so as to burst it in the air? Is
    the fuse used, in this case, the same as that for bombs,
    howitzers, and grenades? What is the Asiatic rocket? The
    fougette of the French? In what siege were they employed with
    success by the native troops of India? What was the nature of
    their war-rocket? What is the murdering rocket of the French?
    Is the conical head hollow, solid, blunt, or pointed? Why is
    it called the murdering rocket? What is the Congreve rocket?
    Is Congreve the inventor or improver of this rocket? What are
    Congreve rockets loaded or armed with? In what part is the
    load placed? Is the case made up of paper or sheet-iron? What
    are the sizes of Congreve rockets?"

In the introduction to "Pyrotechnics" Cutbush remarked that he had consulted many authorities
without much advantage, finding the French the most helpful. Of the English he said:

    "As respects the turtle torpedo and catamarin submarine
    machines, it appears that Bushnel claims the originality of
    the discovery from the date of his invention, although
    similar contrivances had long ago been suggested. Fulton's
    improvements, in the torpedo, are deserving of particular
    attention, but it is plain that the Catamarin of the English
    is the same in principle and application as Fulton's torpedo
    and that Fulton deserves the merit of it."

The "System of Pyrotechny" bears the ear-marks of much careful experimental study. It is a
most worthy contribution, and is strong proof of the dominating force in the mind of Cutbush,
namely, to make his science as widely useful as possible. Chemists may justly take pride in
this early contribution in the application of chemical principles.

The life story of Cutbush has now been told. It is really the story of his life activities,
for regrettable as it is, there does lack a picture of the man's personality. The parents of
James Cutbush were Edward Cutbush and Anne Marriat. The father was a stone-cutter or carver.
To these good people were given four children: Edward, born in 1772; Ann, in 1782 (who died
in 1798); William, born in 1785, and James in 1788. Edward became prominent as a naval surgeon,
while William graduated from West Point in 1812, and attained eminence as an engineer.

Indeed, at an early age, William was a midshipman in the United States Navy, and was taken
prisoner by the Algerines at the time the frigate Philadelphia ran aground in the harbor of
Tripoli, from which he was released after two years' confinement in prison, and returned to
the United States, when he became a cadet in the Military Academy.

James Cutbush must have been a man of mark among his neighbors--as indicated by sundry positions
of trust which he held. Further, he must have been a favorite with the Cadet Corps at West
Point, where he was buried. His tomb there bears this inscription:

    "Sacred to the memory of Dr. James Cutbush, Member of the
    American Philosophical Society, Late Surgeon, U. S. Army and
    Professor of Chemistry at the U. S. Military Academy, West
    Point, N. Y., who departed this life December 15, 1823, aged
    35 years. An honourable tribute of respect from his grateful
    pupils."

The work of Cutbush was of the genuine pioneer character, and enriched the annals of American
chemistry. While it would be delightful to know more of the man, cruel fate compels us to be
content with the estimate, brief though it is, given in Poulsen's American Daily Advertiser,
December 23, 1823:

    "A man not only known for his extensive knowledge of
    chemistry, but distinguished for his philosophy and
    patriotism."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following typos have been corrected:

Page 28: Socity changed to Society.

Page 44: Braeutigram changed to Braeutigam.

Page 51: responsibile changed to responsible.

Page 67: beginnig changed to beginning.