It was a matter of surprise that only sixteen years of our history, or eight Congresses, could
be comprised within the second volume, while the first covered twenty-eight years, or fourteen
Congresses. There is greater surprise that this volume includes only the period covered by
the four years of the second term of Andrew Jackson and the four years of Martin Van Buren's
term--eight years in all, or four Congresses. However, it will be found almost, if not quite,
as interesting as the preceding ones. In it will be found the conclusion of the controversy
over the United States Bank, including President Jackson's reasons for the removal of the deposits
from that bank; his Farewell Address, and other important papers, all of which are characteristic
of the man. It was during the second Administration of President Jackson that the act changing
the ratio between the gold and silver dollar was passed.

This volume contains President Van Buren's message recommending the independent treasury or
subtreasury, and the discussion of that subject, which terminated in what has been termed "the
divorce of the bank and state in the fiscal affairs of the Federal Government," and which President
Van Buren considered a second Declaration of Independence. The controversy with Great Britain
in relation to the northeastern boundary of the United States is also included in Van Buren's
Administration, and will prove highly interesting.

The omission of indexes to Volumes I and II has been commented on. The answer to such comments
is, it was deemed best to omit the index to each volume and publish a general and comprehensive
index to the entire work, in a separate volume. This index will be ready for distribution soon
after the issuance of the last volume.

JAMES D. RICHARDSON.

NOVEMBER 26,1896.

Andrew Jackson

March 4, 1833, to March 4, 1837

Andrew Jackson

SECOND INAUGURAL ADDRESS.

FELLOW-CITIZENS: The will of the American people, expressed through their unsolicited suffrages,
calls me before you to pass through the solemnities preparatory to taking upon myself the duties
of President of the United States for another term. For their approbation of my public conduct
through a period which has not been without its difficulties, and for this renewed expression
of their confidence in my good intentions, I am at a loss for terms adequate to the expression
of my gratitude. It shall be displayed to the extent of my humble abilities in continued efforts
so to administer the Government as to preserve their liberty and promote their happiness.

So many events have occurred within the last four years which have necessarily called forth--sometimes
under circumstances the most delicate and painful--my views of the principles and policy which
ought to be pursued by the General Government that I need on this occasion but allude to a
few leading considerations connected with some of them.

The foreign policy adopted by our Government soon after the formation of our present Constitution,
and very generally pursued by successive Administrations, has been crowned with almost complete
success, and has elevated our character among the nations of the earth. To do justice to all
and to submit to wrong from none has been during my Administration its governing maxim, and
so happy have been its results that we are not only at peace with all the world, but have few
causes of controversy, and those of minor importance, remaining unadjusted.

In the domestic policy of this Government there are two objects which especially deserve the
attention of the people and their representatives, and which have been and will continue to
be the subjects of my increasing solicitude. They are the preservation of the rights of the
several States and the integrity of the Union.

These great objects are necessarily connected, and can only be attained by an enlightened exercise
of the powers of each within its appropriate sphere in conformity with the public will constitutionally
expressed. To this end it becomes the duty of all to yield a ready and patriotic submission
to the laws constitutionally enacted, and thereby promote and strengthen a proper confidence
in those institutions of the several States and of the United States which the people themselves
have ordained for their own government.

My experience in public concerns and the observation of a life somewhat advanced confirm the
opinions long since imbibed by me, that the destruction of our State governments or the annihilation
of their control over the local concerns of the people would lead directly to revolution and
anarchy, and finally to despotism and military domination. In proportion, therefore, as the
General Government encroaches upon the rights of the States, in the same proportion does it
impair its own power and detract from its ability to fulfill the purposes of its creation.
Solemnly impressed with these considerations, my countrymen will ever find me ready to exercise
my constitutional powers in arresting measures which may directly or indirectly encroach upon
the rights of the States or tend to consolidate all political power in the General Government.
But of equal, and, indeed, of incalculable, importance is the union of these States, and the
sacred duty of all to contribute to its preservation by a liberal support of the General Government
in the exercise of its just powers. Without union our independence and liberty would never
have been achieved; without union they never can be maintained. Divided into twenty-four, or
even a smaller number, of separate communities, we shall see our internal trade burdened with
numberless restraints and exactions; communication between distant points and sections obstructed
or cut off; our sons made soldiers to deluge with blood the fields they now till in peace;
the mass of our people borne down and impoverished by taxes to support armies and navies, and
military leaders at the head of their victorious legions becoming our lawgivers and judges.
The loss of liberty, of all good government, of peace, plenty, and happiness, must inevitably
follow a dissolution of the Union. In supporting it, therefore, we support all that is dear
to the freeman and the philanthropist.

The time at which I stand before you is full of interest. The eyes of all nations are fixed
on our Republic. The event of the existing crisis will be decisive in the opinion of mankind
of the practicability of our federal system of government. Great is the stake placed in our
hands; great is the responsibility which must rest upon the people of the United States. Let
us realize the importance of the attitude in which we stand before the world. Let us exercise
forbearance and firmness. Let us extricate our country from the dangers which surround it and
learn wisdom from the lessons they inculcate.

Deeply impressed with the truth of these observations, and under the obligation of that solemn
oath which I am about to take, I shall continue to exert all my faculties to maintain the just
powers of the Constitution and to transmit unimpaired to posterity the blessings of our Federal
Union. At the same time, it will be my aim to inculcate by my official acts the necessity of
exercising by the General Government those powers only that are clearly delegated; to encourage
simplicity and economy in the expenditures of the Government; to raise no more money from the
people than may be requisite for these objects, and in a manner that will best promote the
interests of all classes of the community and of all portions of the Union. Constantly bearing
in mind that in entering into society "individuals must give up a share of liberty to preserve
the rest," it will be my desire so to discharge my duties as to foster with our brethren in
all parts of the country a spirit of liberal concession and compromise, and, by reconciling
our fellow-citizens to those partial sacrifices which they must unavoidably make for the preservation
of a greater good, to recommend our invaluable Government and Union to the confidence and affections
of the American people.

Finally, it is my most fervent prayer to that Almighty Being before whom I now stand, and who
has kept us in His hands from the infancy of our Republic to the present day, that He will
so overrule all my intentions and actions and inspire the hearts of my fellow-citizens that
we may be preserved from dangers of all kinds and continue forever a united and happy people.

MARCH 4, 1833.

REMOVAL OF THE PUBLIC DEPOSITS.

[Read to the Cabinet September 18, 1833]

Having carefully and anxiously considered all the facts and arguments which have been submitted
to him relative to a removal of the public deposits from the Bank of the United States, the
President deems it his duty to communicate in this manner to his Cabinet the final conclusions
of his own mind and the reasons on which they are founded, in order to put them in durable
form and to prevent misconceptions.

The President's convictions of the dangerous tendencies of the Bank of the United States, since
signally illustrated by its own acts, were so overpowering when he entered on the duties of
Chief Magistrate that he felt it his duty, notwithstanding the objections of the friends by
whom he was surrounded, to avail himself of the first occasion to call the attention of Congress
and the people to the question of its recharter. The opinions expressed in his annual message
of December, 1829, were reiterated in those of December, 1830 and 1831, and in that of 1830
he threw out for consideration some suggestions in relation to a substitute. At the session
of 1831-32 an act was passed by a majority of both Houses of Congress rechartering the present
bank, upon which the President felt it his duty to put his constitutional veto. In his message
returning that act he repeated and enlarged upon the principles and views briefly asserted
in his annual message, declaring the bank to be, in his opinion, both inexpedient and unconstitutional,
and announcing to his countrymen very unequivocally his firm determination never to sanction
by his approval the continuance of that institution or the establishment of any other upon
similar principles.

There are strong reasons for believing that the motive of the bank in asking for a recharter
at that session of Congress was to make it a leading question in the election of a President
of the United States the ensuing November, and all steps deemed necessary were taken to procure
from the people a reversal of the President's decision.

Although the charter was approaching its termination, and the bank was aware that it was the
intention of the Government to use the public deposit as fast as it has accrued in the payment
of the public debt, yet did it extend its loans from January, 1831, to May, 1832, from $42,402,304.24
to $70,428,070.72, being an increase of $28,025,766.48 in sixteen months. It is confidently
believed that the leading object of this immense extension of its loans was to bring as large
a portion of the people as possible under its power and influence, and it has been disclosed
that some of the largest sums were granted on very unusual terms to the conductors of the public
press. In some of these cases the motive was made manifest by the nominal or insufficient security
taken for the loans, by the large amounts discounted, by the extraordinary time allowed for
payment, and especially by the subsequent conduct of those receiving the accommodations.

Having taken these preliminary steps to obtain control over public opinion, the bank came into
Congress and asked a new charter. The object avowed by many of the advocates of the bank was
to put the President to the test, that the country might know his final determination relative
to the bank prior to the ensuing election. Many documents and articles were printed and circulated
at the expense of the bank to bring the people to a favorable decision upon its pretensions.
Those whom the bank appears to have made its debtors for the special occasion were warned of
the ruin which awaited them should the President be sustained, and attempts were made to alarm
the whole people by painting the depression in the price of property and produce and the general
loss, inconvenience, and distress which it was represented would immediately follow the reelection
of the President in opposition to the bank.

Can it now be said that the question of a recharter of the bank was not decided at the election
which ensued? Had the veto been equivocal, or had it not covered the whole ground; if it had
merely taken exceptions to the details of the bill or to the time of its passage; if it had
not met the whole ground of constitutionality and expediency, then there might have been some
plausibility for the allegation that the question was not decided by the people. It was to
compel the President to take his stand that the question was brought forward at that particular
time. He met the challenge, willingly took the position into which his adversaries sought to
force him, and frankly declared his unalterable opposition to the bank as being both unconstitutional
and inexpedient. On that ground the case was argued to the people; and now that the people
have sustained the President, notwithstanding the array of influence and power which was brought
to bear upon him, it is too late, he confidently thinks, to say that the question has not been
decided. Whatever may be the opinions of others, the President considers his reelection as
a decision of the people against the bank. In the concluding paragraph of his veto message he said:

  I have now done my duty to my country. If sustained by my
  fellow-citizens, I shall be grateful and happy; if not, I shall find
  in the motives which impel me ample grounds for contentment and peace.

He was sustained by a just people, and he desires to evince his gratitude by carrying into
effect their decision so far as it depends upon him.

Of all the substitutes for the present bank which have been suggested, none seems to have united
any considerable portion of the public in its favor. Most of them are liable to the same constitutional
objections for which the present bank has been condemned, and perhaps to all there are strong
objections on the score of expediency. In ridding the country of an irresponsible power which
has attempted to control the Government, care must be taken not to unite the same power with
the executive branch. To give a President the control over the currency and the power over
individuals now possessed by the Bank of the United States, even with the material difference
that he is responsible to the people, would be as objectionable and as dangerous as to leave
it as it is. Neither one nor the other is necessary, and therefore ought not to be resorted to.

On the whole, the President considers it as conclusively settled that the charter of the Bank
of the United States will not be renewed, and he has no reasonable ground to believe that any
substitute will be established. Being bound to regulate his course by the laws as they exist,
and not to anticipate the interference of the legislative power for the purpose of framing
new systems, it is proper for him seasonably to consider the means by which the services rendered
by the Bank of the United States are to be performed after its charter shall expire.

The existing laws declare that--

  The deposits of the money of the United States in places in which the
  said bank and branches thereof may be established shall be made in said
  bank or branches thereof unless the Secretary of the Treasury shall at
  any time otherwise order and direct, in which case the Secretary of the
  Treasury shall immediately lay before Congress, if in session, and, if
  not, immediately after the commencement of the next session, the reasons
  of such order or direction.

The power of the Secretary of the Treasury over the deposits is unqualified. The provision
that he shall report his reasons to Congress is no limitation. Had it not been inserted he
would have been responsible to Congress had he made a removal for any other than good reasons,
and his responsibility now ceases upon the rendition of sufficient ones to Congress. The only
object of the provision is to make his reasons accessible to Congress and enable that body
the more readily to judge of their soundness and purity, and thereupon to make such further
provision by law as the legislative power may think proper in relation to the deposit of the
public money. Those reasons may be very diversified. It was asserted by the Secretary of the
Treasury, without contradiction, as early as 1817, that he had power "to control the proceedings"
of the Bank of the United States at any moment "by changing the deposits to the State banks"
should it pursue an illiberal course toward those institutions; that "the Secretary of the
Treasury will always be disposed to support the credit of the State banks, and will invariably
direct transfers from the deposits of the public money in aid of their legitimate exertions
to maintain their credit;" and he asserted a right to employ the State banks when the Bank
of the United States should refuse to receive on deposit the notes of such State banks as the
public interest required should be received in payment of the public dues. In several instances
he did transfer the public deposits to State banks in the immediate vicinity of branches, for
reasons connected only with the safety of those banks, the public convenience, and the interests
of the Treasury.

If it was lawful for Mr. Crawford, the Secretary of the Treasury at that time, to act on these
principles, it will be difficult to discover any sound reason against the application of similar
principles in still stronger cases. And it is a matter of surprise that a power which in the
infancy of the bank was freely asserted as one of the ordinary and familiar duties of the Secretary
of the Treasury should now be gravely questioned, and attempts made to excite and alarm the
public mind as if some new and unheard-of power was about to be usurped by the executive branch
of the Government.

It is but a little more than two and a half years to the termination of the charter of the
present bank. It is considered as the decision of the country that it shall then cease to exist,
and no man, the President believes, has reasonable ground for expectation that any other Bank
of the United States will be created by Congress.

To the Treasury Department is intrusted the safe-keeping and faithful application of the public
moneys. A plan of collection different from the present must therefore be introduced and put
in complete operation before the dissolution of the present bank. When shall it be commenced?
Shall no step be taken in this essential concern until the charter expires and the Treasury
finds itself without an agent, its accounts in confusion, with no depository for its funds,
and the whole business of the Government deranged, or shall it be delayed until six months,
or a year, or two years before the expiration of the charter? It is obvious that any new system
which may be substituted in the place of the Bank of the United States could not be suddenly
carried into effect on the termination of its existence without serious inconvenience to the
Government and the people. Its vast amount of notes are then to be redeemed and withdrawn-from
circulation and its immense debt collected. These operations must be gradual, otherwise much
suffering and distress will be brought upon the community.

It ought to be not a work of months only, but of years, and the President thinks it can not,
with due attention to the interests of the people, be longer postponed. It is safer to begin
it too soon than to delay it too long.

It is for the wisdom of Congress to decide upon the best substitute to be adopted in the place
of the Bank of the United States, and the President would have felt himself relieved from a
heavy and painful responsibility if in the charter to the bank Congress had reserved to itself
the power of directing at its pleasure the public money to be elsewhere deposited, and had
not devolved that power exclusively on one of the Executive Departments. It is useless now
to inquire why this high and important power was surrendered by those who are peculiarly and
appropriately the guardians of the public money. Perhaps it was an oversight. But as the President
presumes that the charter to the bank is to be considered as a contract on the part of the
Government, it is not now in the power of Congress to disregard its stipulations; and by the
terms of that contract the public money is to be deposited in the bank during the continuance
of its charter unless the Secretary of the Treasury shall otherwise direct. Unless, therefore,
the Secretary of the Treasury first acts, Congress have no power over the subject, for they
can not add a new clause to the charter or strike one out of it without the consent of the
bank, and consequently the public money must remain in that institution to the last hour of
its existence unless the Secretary of the Treasury shall remove it at an earlier day. The responsibility
is thus thrown upon the executive branch of the Government of deciding how long before the
expiration of the charter the public interest will require the deposits to be placed elsewhere;
and although according to the frame and principle of our Government this decision would seem
more properly to belong to the legislative power, yet as the law has imposed it upon the executive
department the duty ought to be faithfully and firmly met, and the decision made and executed
upon the best lights that can be obtained and the best judgment that can be formed. It would
ill become the executive branch of the Government to shrink from any duty which the law imposes
on it, to fix upon others the responsibility which justly belongs to itself. And while the
President anxiously wishes to abstain from the exercise of doubtful powers and to avoid all
interference with the rights and duties of others, he must yet with unshaken constancy discharge
his own obligations, and can not allow himself to turn aside in order to avoid any responsibility
which the high trust with which he has been honored requires him to encounter; and it being
the duty of one of the Executive Departments to decide in the first instance, subject to the
future action of the legislative power, whether the public deposits shall remain in the Bank
of the United States until the end of its existence or be withdrawn some time before, the President
has felt himself bound to examine the question carefully and deliberately in order to make
up his judgment on the subject, and in his opinion the near approach of the termination of
the charter and the public considerations heretofore mentioned are of themselves amply sufficient
to justify the removal of the deposits, without reference to the conduct of the bank or their
safety in its keeping.

But in the conduct of the bank may be found other reasons, very imperative in their character,
and which require prompt action. Developments have been made from time to time of its faithlessness
as a public agent, its misapplication of public funds, its interference in elections, its efforts
by the machinery of committees to deprive the Government directors of a full knowledge of its
concerns, and, above all, its flagrant misconduct as recently and unexpectedly disclosed in
placing all the funds of the bank, including the money of the Government, at the disposition
of the president of the bank as means of operating upon public opinion and procuring a new
charter, without requiring him to render a voucher for their disbursement. A brief recapitulation
of the facts which justify these charges, and which have come to the knowledge of the public
and the President, will, he thinks, remove every reasonable doubt as to the course which it
is now the duty of the President to pursue.

We have seen that in sixteen months ending in May, 1832, the bank had extended its loans more
than $28,000,000, although it knew the Government intended to appropriate most of its large
deposit during that year in payment of the public debt. It was in May, 1832, that its loans
arrived at the maximum, and in the preceding March so sensible was the bank that it would not
be able to pay over the public deposit when it would be required by the Government that it
commenced a secret negotiation, without the approbation or knowledge of the Government, with
the agents for about $2,700,000 of the 3 per cent stocks held in Holland, with a view of inducing
them not to come forward for payment for one or more years after notice should be given by
the Treasury Department. This arrangement would have enabled the bank to keep and use during
time the public money set apart for the payment of these stocks. After this negotiation had
commenced, the Secretary of the Treasury informed the bank that it was his intention to pay
off one-half of the 3 percents on the 1st of the succeeding July, which amounted to about $6,500,000.
The president of the bank, although the committee of investigation was then looking into its
affairs at Philadelphia, came immediately to Washington, and upon representing that the bank
was desirous of accommodating the importing merchants at New York (which it failed to do) and
undertaking to pay the interest itself, procured the consent of the Secretary, after consultation
with the President, to postpone the payment until the succeeding 1st of October.

Conscious that at the end of that quarter the bank would not be able to pay over the deposits,
and that further indulgence was not to be expected of the Government, an agent was dispatched
to England secretly to negotiate with the holders of the public debt in Europe and induce them
by the offer of an equal or higher interest than that paid by the Government to hold back their
claims for one year, during which the bank expected thus to retain the use of $5,000,000 of
the public money, which the Government should set apart for the payment of that debt. The agent
made an arrangement on terms, in part, which were in direct violation of the charter of the
bank, and when some incidents connected with this secret negotiation accidentally came to the
knowledge of the public and the Government, then, and not before, so much of it as was palpably
in violation of the charter was disavowed. A modification of the rest was attempted with the
view of getting the certificates without payment of the money, and thus absolving the Government
from its liability to the holders. In this scheme the bank was partially successful, but to
this day the certificates of a portion of these stocks have not been paid and the bank retains
the use of the money.

This effort to thwart the Government in the payment of the public debt that it might retain
the public money to be used for their private interests, palliated by pretenses notoriously
unfounded and insincere, would have justified the instant withdrawal of the public deposits.
The negotiation itself rendered doubtful the ability of the bank to meet the demands of the
Treasury, and the misrepresentations by which it was attempted to be justified proved that
no reliance could be placed upon its allegations.

If the question of a removal of the deposits presented itself to the Executive in the same
attitude that it appeared before the House of Representatives at their last session, their
resolution in relation to the safety of the deposits would be entitled to more weight, although
the decision of the question of removal has been confided by law to another department of the
Government. But the question now occurs attended by other circumstances and new disclosures
of the most serious import. It is true that in the message of the President which produced
this inquiry and resolution on the part of the House of Representatives it was his object to
obtain the aid of that body in making a thorough examination into the conduct and condition
of the bank and its branches in order to enable the executive department to decide whether
the public money was longer safe in its hands. The limited power of the Secretary of the Treasury
over the subject disabled him from making the investigation as fully and satisfactorily as
it could be done by a committee of the House of Representatives, and hence the President desired
the assistance of Congress to obtain for the Treasury Department a full knowledge of all the
facts which were necessary to guide his judgment. But it was not his purpose, as the language
of his message will show, to ask the representatives of the people to assume a responsibility
which did not belong to them and relieve the executive branch of the Government from the duty
which the law had imposed upon it. It is due to the President that his object in that proceeding
should be distinctly understood, and that he should acquit himself of all suspicion of seeking
to escape from the performance of his own duties or of desiring to interpose another body between
himself and the people in order to avoid a measure which he is called upon to meet. But although
as an act of justice to himself he disclaims any design of soliciting the opinion of the House
of Representatives in relation to his own duties in order to shelter himself from responsibility
under the sanction of their counsel, yet he is at all times ready to listen to the suggestions
of the representatives of the people, whether given voluntarily or upon solicitation, and to
consider them with the profound respect to which all will admit that they are justly entitled.
Whatever may be the consequences, however, to himself, he must finally form his own judgment
where the Constitution and the law make it his duty to decide, and must act accordingly; and
he is bound to suppose that such a course on his part will never be regarded by that elevated
body as a mark of disrespect to itself, but that they will, on the contrary, esteem it the
strongest evidence he can give of his fixed resolution conscientiously to discharge his duty
to them and the country.

A new state of things has, however, arisen since the close of the last session of Congress,
and evidence has since been laid before the President which he is persuaded would have led
the House of Representatives to a different conclusion if it had come to their knowledge. The
fact that the bank controls, and in some cases substantially owns, and by its money supports
some of the leading presses of the country is now more clearly established. Editors to whom
it loaned extravagant sums in 1831 and 1832, on unusual time and nominal security, have since
turned out to be insolvent, and to others apparently in no better condition accommodations
still more extravagant, on terms more unusual, and some without any security, have also been
heedlessly granted.

The allegation which has so often circulated through these channels that the Treasury was bankrupt
and the bank was sustaining it, when for many years there has not been less, on an average,
than six millions of public money in that institution, might be passed over as a harmless misrepresentation;
but when it is attempted by substantial acts to impair the credit of the Government and tarnish
the honor of the country, such charges require more serious attention. With six millions of
public money in its vaults, after having had the use of from five to twelve millions for nine
years without interest, it became the purchaser of a bill drawn by our Government on that of
France for about $900,000, being the first installment of the French indemnity. The purchase
money was left in the use of the bank, being simply added to the Treasury deposit. The bank
sold the bill in England, and the holder sent it to France for collection, and arrangements
not having been made by the French Government for its payment, it was taken up by the agents
of the bank in Paris with the funds of the bank in their hands. Under these circumstances it
has through its organs openly assailed the credit of the Government, and has actually made
and persists in a demand of 15 per cent, or $158,842.77, as damages, when no damage, or none
beyond some trifling expense, has in fact been sustained, and when the bank had in its own
possession on deposit several millions of the public money which it was then using for its
own profit. Is a fiscal agent of the Government which thus seeks to enrich itself at the expense
of the public worthy of further trust?

There are other important facts not in the contemplation of the House of Representatives or
not known to the members at the time they voted for the resolution.

Although the charter and the rules of the bank both declare that "not less than seven directors"
shall be necessary to the transaction of business, yet the most important business, even that
of granting discounts to any extent, is intrusted to a committee of five members, who do not
report to the board.

To cut off all means of communication with the Government in relation to its most important
acts at the commencement of the present year, not one of the Government directors was placed
on any one committee; and although since, by an unusual remodeling of those bodies, some of
those directors have been placed on some of the committees, they are yet entirely excluded
from the committee of exchange, through which the greatest and most objectionable loans have
been made.

When the Government directors made an effort to bring back the business of the bank to the
board in obedience to the charter and the existing regulations, the board not only overruled
their attempt, but altered the rule so as to make it conform to the practice, in direct violation
of one of the most important provisions of the charter which gave them existence.

It has long been known that the president of the bank, by his single will, originates and executes
many of the most important measures connected with the management and credit of the bank, and
that the committee as well as the board of directors are left in entire ignorance of many acts
done and correspondence carried on in their names, and apparently under their authority. The
fact has been recently disclosed that an unlimited discretion has been and is now vested in
the president of the bank to expend its funds in payment for preparing and circulating articles
and purchasing pamphlets and newspapers, calculated by their contents to operate on elections
and secure a renewal of its charter. It appears from the official report of the public directors
that on the 30th November, 1830, the president submitted to the board an article published
in the American Quarterly Review containing favorable notices of the bank, and suggested the
expediency of giving it a wider circulation at the expense of the bank; whereupon the board
passed the following resolution, viz:

  Resolved, That the president be authorized to take such measures in
  regard to the circulation of the contents of the said article, either
  in whole or in part, as he may deem most for the interest of the bank.

By an entry in the minutes of the bank dated March 11, 1831, it appears that the president
had not only caused a large edition of that article to be issued, but had also, before the
resolution of 30th November was adopted, procured to be printed and widely circulated numerous
copies of the reports of General Smith and Mr. McDuffie in favor of the bank; and on that day
he suggested the expediency of extending his power to the printing of other articles which
might subserve the purposes of the institution, whereupon the following resolution was adopted,
viz--

  Resolved, That the president is hereby authorized to cause to be
  prepared and circulated such documents and papers as may communicate
  to the people information in regard to the nature and operations of
  the bank.

The expenditures purporting to have been made under authority of these resolutions during the
years 1831 and 1832 were about $80,000. For a portion of these expenditures vouchers were rendered,
from which it appears that they were incurred in the purchase of some hundred thousand copies
of newspapers, reports and speeches made in Congress, reviews of the veto message and reviews
of speeches against the bank, etc. For another large portion no vouchers whatever were rendered,
but the various sums were paid on orders of the president of the bank, making reference to
the resolution of the 11th of March, 1831.

On ascertaining these facts and perceiving that expenditures of a similar character were still
continued, the Government directors a few weeks ago offered a resolution in the board calling
for a specific account of these expenditures, showing the objects to which they had been applied
and the persons to whom the money had been paid. This reasonable proposition was voted down.

They also offered a resolution rescinding the resolutions of November, 1830, and March, 1831.
This also was rejected.

Not content with thus refusing to recall the obnoxious power or even to require such an account
of the expenditure as would show whether the money of the bank had in fact been applied to
the objects contemplated by these resolutions, as obnoxious as they were, the board renewed
the power already conferred, and even enjoined renewed attention to its exercise by adopting
the following in lieu of the propositions submitted by the Government directors, viz:

  Resolved, That the board have confidence in the wisdom and integrity
  of the president and in the propriety of the resolutions of 30th
  November, 1830, and 11th March, 1831, and entertain a full conviction
  of the necessity of a renewed attention to the object of those
  resolutions, and that the president be authorized and requested to
  continue his exertions for the promotion of said object.

Taken in connection with the nature of the expenditures heretofore made, as recently disclosed,
which the board not only tolerate, but approve, this resolution puts the funds of the bank
at the disposition of the president for the purpose of employing the whole press of the country
in the service of the bank, to hire writers and newspapers, and to pay out such sums as he
pleases to what person and for what services he pleases without the responsibility of rendering
any specific account. The bank is thus converted into a vast electioneering engine, with means
to embroil the country in deadly feuds, and, under cover of expenditures in themselves improper,
extend its corruption through all the ramifications of society.

Some of the items for which accounts have been rendered show the construction which has been
given to the resolutions and the way in which the power it confers has been exerted. The money
has not been expended merely in the publication and distribution of speeches, reports of committees,
or articles written for the purpose of showing the constitutionality or usefulness of the bank,
but publications have been prepared and extensively circulated containing the grossest invectives
against the officers of the Government, and the money which belongs to the stockholders and
to the public has been freely applied in efforts to degrade in public estimation those who
were supposed to be instrumental in resisting the wishes of this grasping and dangerous institution.
As the president of the bank has not been required to settle his accounts, no one but himself
knows how much more than the sum already mentioned may have been squandered, and for which
a credit may hereafter be claimed in his account under this most extraordinary resolution.
With these facts before us can we be surprised at the torrent of abuse incessantly poured out
against all who are supposed to stand in the way of the cupidity or ambition of the Bank of
the United States? Can we be surprised at sudden and unexpected changes of opinion in favor
of an institution which has millions to lavish and avows its determination not to spare its
means when they are necessary to accomplish its purposes? The refusal to render an account
of the manner in which a part of the money expended has been applied gives just cause for the
suspicion that it has been used for purposes which it is not deemed prudent to expose to the
eyes of an intelligent and virtuous people. Those who act justly do not shun the light, nor
do they refuse explanations when the propriety of their conduct is brought into question.

With these facts before him in an official report from the Government directors, the President
would feel that he was not only responsible for all the abuses and corruptions the bank has
committed or may commit, but almost an accomplice in a conspiracy against that Government which
he has sworn honestly to administer, if he did not take every step within his constitutional
and legal power likely to be efficient in putting an end to these enormities. If it be possible
within the scope of human affairs to find a reason for removing the Government deposits and
leaving the bank to its own resource for the means of effecting its criminal designs, we have
it here. Was it expected when the moneys of the United States were directed to be placed in
that bank that they would be put under the control of one man empowered to spend millions without
rendering a voucher or specifying the object? Can they be considered safe with the evidence
before us that tens of thousands have been spent for highly improper, if not corrupt, purposes,
and that the same motive may lead to the expenditure of hundreds of thousands, and even millions,
more? And can we justify ourselves to the people by longer lending to it the money and power
of the Government to be employed for such purposes?

It has been alleged by some as an objection to the removal of the deposits that the bank has
the power, and in that event will have the disposition, to destroy the State banks employed
by the Government, and bring distress upon the country. It has been the fortune of the President
to encounter dangers which were represented as equally alarming, and he has seen them vanish
before resolution and energy. Pictures equally appalling were paraded before him when this
bank came to demand a new charter. But what was the result? Has the country been ruined, or
even distressed? Was it ever more prosperous than since that act? The President verily believes
the bank has not the power to produce the calamities its friends threaten. The funds of the
Government will not be annihilated by being transferred. They will immediately be issued for
the benefit of trade, and if the Bank of the United States curtails its loans the State banks,
strengthened by the public deposits, will extend theirs. What comes in through one bank will
go out through others, and the equilibrium will be preserved. Should the bank, for the mere
purpose of producing distress, press its debtors more heavily than some of them can bear, the
consequences will recoil upon itself, and in the attempts to embarrass the country it will
only bring loss and ruin upon the holders of its own stock. But if the President believed the
bank possessed all the power which has been attributed to it, his determination would only
be rendered the more inflexible. If, indeed, this corporation now holds in its hands the happiness
and prosperity of the American people, it is high time to take the alarm. If the despotism
be already upon us and our only safety is in the mercy of the despot, recent developments in
relation to his designs and the means he employs show how necessary it is to shake it off.
The struggle can never come with less distress to the people or under more favorable auspices
than at the present moment.

All doubt as to the willingness of the State banks to undertake the service of the Government
to the same extent and on the same terms as it is now performed by the Bank of the United States
is put to rest by the report of the agent recently employed to collect information, and from
that willingness their own safety in the operation may be confidently inferred. Knowing their
own resources better than they can be known by others, it is not to be supposed that they would
be willing to place themselves in a situation which they can not occupy without danger of annihilation
or embarrassment. The only consideration applies to the safety of the public funds if deposited
in those institutions, and when it is seen that the directors of many of them are not only
willing to pledge the character and capital of the corporations in giving success to this measure,
but also their own property and reputation, we can not doubt that they at least believe the
public deposits would be safe in their management. The President thinks that these facts and
circumstances afford as strong a guaranty as can be had in human affairs for the safety of
the public funds and the practicability of a new system of collection and disbursement through
the agency of the State banks.

From all these considerations the President thinks that the State banks ought immediately to
be employed in the collection and disbursement of the public revenue, and the funds now in
the Bank of the United States drawn out with all convenient dispatch. The safety of the public
moneys if deposited in the State banks must be secured beyond all reasonable doubts; but the
extent and nature of the security, in addition to their capital, if any be deemed necessary,
is a subject of detail to which the Treasury Department will undoubtedly give its anxious attention.
The banks to be employed must remit the moneys of the Government without charge, as the Bank
of the United States now does; must render all the services which that bank now performs; must
keep the Government advised of their situation by periodical returns; in fine, in any arrangement
with the State banks the Government must not in any respect be placed on a worse footing than
it now is. The President is happy to perceive by the report of the agent that the banks which
he has consulted have, in general, consented to perform the service on these terms, and that
those in New York have further agreed to make payments in London without other charge than
the mere cost of the bills of exchange.

It should also be enjoined upon any banks which may be employed that it will be expected of
them to facilitate domestic exchanges for the benefit of internal commerce; to grant all reasonable
facilities to the payers of the revenue; to exercise the utmost liberality toward the other
State banks, and do nothing uselessly to embarrass the Bank of the United States.

As one of the most serious objections to the Bank of the United States is the power which it
concentrates, care must be taken in finding other agents for the service of the Treasury not
to raise up another power equally formidable. Although it would probably be impossible to produce
such a result by any organization of the State banks which could be devised, yet it is desirable
to avoid even the appearance. To this end it would be expedient to assume no more power over
them and interfere no more in their affairs than might be absolutely necessary to the security
of the public deposit and the faithful performance of their duties as agents of the Treasury.
Any interference by them in the political contests of the country with a view to influence
elections ought, in the opinion of the President, to be followed by an immediate discharge
from the public service.

It is the desire of the President that the control of the banks and the currency shall, as
far as possible, be entirely separated from the political power of the country as well as wrested
from an institution which has already attempted to subject the Government to its will. In his
opinion the action of the General Government on this subject ought not to extend beyond the
grant in the Constitution, which only authorizes Congress "to coin money and regulate the value
thereof;" all else belongs to the States and the people, and must be regulated by public opinion
and the interests of trade.

In conclusion, the President must be permitted to remark that he looks upon the pending question
as of higher consideration than the mere transfer of a sum of money from one bank to another.
Its decision may affect the character of our Government for ages to come. Should the bank be
suffered longer to use the public moneys in the accomplishment of its purposes, with the proofs
of its faithlessness and corruption before our eyes, the patriotic among our citizens will
despair of success in struggling against its power, and we shall be responsible for entailing
it upon our country forever. Viewing it as a question of transcendent importance, both in the
principles and consequences it involves, the President could not, in justice to the responsibility
which he owes to the country, refrain from pressing upon the Secretary of the Treasury his
view of the considerations which impel to immediate action. Upon him has been devolved by the
Constitution and the suffrages of the American people the duty of superintending the operation
of the Executive Departments of the Government and seeing that the laws are faithfully executed.
In the performance of this high trust it is his undoubted right to express to those whom the
laws and his own choice have made his associates in the administration of the Government his
opinion of their duties under circumstances as they arise. It is this right which he now exercises.
Far be it from him to expect or require that any member of the Cabinet should at his request,
order, or dictation do any act which he believes unlawful or in his conscience condemns. From
them and from his fellow-citizens in general he desires only that aid and support which their
reason approves and their conscience sanctions.

In the remarks he has made on this all-important question he trusts the Secretary of the Treasury
will see only the frank and respectful declarations of the opinions which the President has
formed on a measure of great national interest deeply affecting the character and usefulness
of his Administration, and not a spirit of dictation, which the President would be as careful
to avoid as ready to resist. Happy will he be if the facts now disclosed produce uniformity
of opinion and unity of action among the members of the Administration.

The President again repeats that he begs his Cabinet to consider the proposed measure as his
own, in the support of which he shall require no one of them to make a sacrifice of opinion
or principle. Its responsibility has been assumed after the most mature deliberation and reflection
as necessary to preserve the morals of the people, the freedom of the press, and the purity
of the elective franchise, without which all will unite in saying that the blood and treasure
expended by our forefathers in the establishment of our happy system of government will have
been vain and fruitless. Under these convictions he feels that a measure so important to the
American people can not be commenced too soon, and he therefore names the 1st day of October
next as a period proper for the change of the deposits, or sooner, provided the necessary arrangements
with the State banks can be made.

ANDREW JACKSON.

FIFTH ANNUAL MESSAGE.

ANDREW JACKSON.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

WASHINGTON, December 5, 1833.

To the Senate of the United States:

In compliance with the resolution of the Senate at its last session, requesting the President
"to cause to be prepared and laid before the Senate at the commencement of its next session
a plan for equalizing the pay of the officers in the Army and Navy according to their relative
rank, and providing a stated salary or fixed compensation for their services in lieu of present
allowances," I submit herewith a report from the Secretaries of the War and Navy Departments,
to whom the subject was referred. It is believed the plan they have presented meets substantially
the objects of the resolution.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 6, 1833.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith to the House of Representatives a communication from the War Department,
showing the circumstances under which the sum of $5,000, appropriated for subsistence of the
Army, was transferred to the service of the medical and hospital department, and which, by
the law authorizing the transfer, are required to be laid before Congress during the first
week of their session.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 11, 1833.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 12, 1833.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have attentively considered the resolution of the Senate of the 11th instant, requesting
the President of the United States to communicate to the Senate "a copy of the paper which
has been published, and which purports to have been read by him to the heads of the Executive
Departments, dated the 18th day of September last, relating to the removal of the deposits
of the public money from the Bank of the United States and its offices."

The executive is a coordinate and independent branch of the Government equally with the Senate,
and I have yet to learn under what constitutional authority that branch of the Legislature
has a right to require of me an account of any communication, either verbally or in writing,
made to the heads of Departments acting as a Cabinet council. As well might I be required to
detail to the Senate the free and private conversations I have held with those officers on
any subject relating to their duties and my own.

Feeling my responsibility to the American people, I am willing upon all occasions to explain
to them the grounds of my conduct, and I am willing upon all proper occasions to give to either
branch of the Legislature any information in my possession that can be useful in the execution
of the appropriate duties confided to them.

Knowing the constitutional rights of the Senate, I shall be the last man under any circumstances
to interfere with them. Knowing those of the Executive, I shall at all times endeavor to maintain
them agreeably to the provisions of the Constitution and the solemn oath I have taken to support
and defend it.

I am constrained, therefore, by a proper sense of my own self-respect and of the rights secured
by the Constitution to the executive branch of the Government to decline a compliance with
your request.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 23, 1833.

To the House of Representatives:

The rules and regulations herewith submitted have been prepared by a board of officers in conformity
with an act passed May 19, 1832.[1]

They are approved by me, and in pursuance of the provisions of said act are now communicated
to the House of Representatives for the purpose of obtaining to them the sanction of Congress.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 1: An act authorizing the revision and extension of the rules and regulations of
the naval service.]

WASHINGTON, December 24, 1833.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of the Senate as to the ratification thereof, the
following Indian treaties that have been received since the adjournment of the last session
of Congress, viz:

No. 1. Treaty with the Seminole Indians, made May 9, 1832.

No. 2. Treaty with the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, made 14th February, 1833.

No. 3. Treaty with the Creeks west of the Mississippi, made 14th February, 1833.

No. 4. Assignment to the Seminoles of a tract of land for their residence west of the Mississippi,
made 28th March, 1833.

No. 5. Agreement with the Apalachiccla band of Indians, made 18th June, 1833.

No. 6. Treaty with the united bands of Ottoes and Missourians, made 21st September, 1833.

No. 7. Treaty with the four confederated bands of Pawnees residing on the Platt and Loup Fork,
made 9th October, 1833.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 6, 1834.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I communicate to Congress an extract of a letter recently received from R.J. Leib, consul of
the United States at Tangier, by which it appears that that officer has been induced to receive
from the Emperor of Morocco a present of a lion and two horses, which he holds as belonging
to the United States. There being no funds at the disposal of the Executive applicable to the
objects stated by Mr. Leib, I submit the whole subject to the consideration of Congress for
such direction as in their wisdom may seem proper.

I have directed instructions to be given to all our ministers and agents abroad requiring that
in future, unless previously authorized by Congress, they will not under any circumstances
accept presents of any description from any foreign state.

I deem it proper on this occasion to invite the attention of Congress to the presents which
have heretofore been made to our public officers, and which have been deposited under the orders
of the Government in the Department of State. These articles are altogether useless to the
Government, and the care and preservation of them in the Department of State are attended with
considerably inconvenience.

The provision of the Constitution which forbids any officer, without the consent of Congress,
to accept any present from any foreign power may be considered as having been satisfied by
the surrender of the articles to the Government, and they might now be disposed of by Congress
to those for whom they were originally intended, or to their heirs, with obvious propriety
in both cases, and in the latter would be received as grateful memorials of the surrender of
the present.

As under the positive order now given similar presents can not hereafter be received, even
for the purpose of being placed at the disposal of the Government, I recommend to Congress
to authorize by law that the articles already in the Department of State shall be delivered
to the persons to whom they were originally presented, if living, and to the heirs of such
as may have died.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 7, 1834.

To the House of Representatives:

In compliance with the resolution requesting the President of the United States to lay before
the House "a copy of any contract which may have been made for the construction of a bridge
across the Potomac opposite to the city of Washington, together with the authority under which
such contract may have been made, the names of the contractors and their securities, if any,
and the plan and estimate of the cost of such a bridge," I transmit herewith a report from
the Secretary of the Treasury, to whom the resolution was referred, containing all the information
upon the subject which he is now able to communicate.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 9, 1834.

I transmit also sundry documents relating thereto that I think proper should be laid before
the Senate.

I understand the country ceded by this treaty is considered a valuable one and its acquisition
important to that section of the Union. Under these circumstances, as the objection to a ratification
applies to those stipulations in the third article which provide that $100,000 and $150,000
shall be granted in satisfaction of claims to reservations and for debts due from the Indians
to individuals, I recommend that the treaty be ratified, with the condition that an agent be
appointed to proceed to Chicago investigate the justice of these claims. If they are all well
founded and have been assented to by the Indians with a full knowledge of the circumstances,
a proper investigation of them will do the claimants no injury, but will place the matter beyond
suspicion. If, on the other hand, they are unjust and have not been fully understood by the
Indians, the fraud will in that event vitiate them, and they ought not to be paid. To the United
States, in a mere pecuniary point of view, it is of no importance to whom the money provided
by this treaty is paid. They stipulate to pay a given amount, and that amount they must pay,
but the consideration is yielded by the Indians, and they are entitled to its value. Whatever
is granted in claims must be withheld from them, and if not so granted it becomes theirs. Considering
the relations in which the Indians stand to the United States, it appears to me just to exercise
their supervisory authority. It has been done in more than one instance, and as its object
in this case is to ascertain whether any fraud exists, and if there does to correct it, I consider
such a ratification within the proper scope of the treaty-making power.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 22, 1834.

To the Senate:

I transmit to the Senate a report[2] from the Secretary of State, containing the information
requested by their resolution of the 9th instant, with the documents which accompany that report.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 2: Relating to presents from foreign governments to officers of the United States.]

WASHINGTON, January 25, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

FEBRUARY 4, 1834.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I deem it my duty to communicate to Congress the recent conduct of the Bank of the United States
in refusing to deliver the books, papers, and funds in its possession relating to the execution
of the act of Congress of June 7, 1832, entitled "An act supplementary to the 'Act for the
relief of certain surviving officers and soldiers of the Revolution.'" The correspondence reported
by the Secretary of War, and herewith transmitted, will show the grounds assumed by the bank
to justify its refusal to make the transfer directed by the War Department. It does not profess
to claim the privilege of this agency as a right secured to it by contract, nor as a benefit
conferred by the Government, but as a burden, from which it is willing to be relieved. It places
its refusal upon the extraordinary ground that the corporation has a right to sit in judgment
upon the legality of the acts of the constituted authorities in a matter in which the stockholders
are admitted to have no interest, and it impedes and defeats, as far as its power will permit,
the execution of a measure of the Administration, because the opinion of the corporation upon
the construction of an act of Congress differs from that of the proper officers of the United
States.

The claim of this corporation thus to usurp the functions of the judicial power and to prescribe
to the executive department the manner in which it shall execute the trust confided to it by
law is without example in the history of our country. If the acts of the public servants, who
are responsible to the people for the manner in which they execute their duty, may thus be
checked and controlled by an irresponsible money corporation, then indeed the whole frame of
our Government is changed, and we have established a power in the Bank of the United States
above what we derive from the people.

It will be seen from the accompanying statement (marked A) that according to the latest accounts
received at the War Department the Bank of the United States and its branches have in their
possession near half a million of the public money, received by them under the law of 1832,
which they have not yet accounted for, and which they refuse to pay over to the proper agents
for the use of those persons for whose benefit it was withdrawn from the Treasury. It is to
be regretted that this attempt on the part of the bank to guide and direct the Executive upon
the construction and execution of an act of Congress should have been put forward and insisted
on in a case where the immediate sufferers from their conduct will be the surviving veterans
of the Revolutionary war, for this evil falls exclusively upon the gallant defenders of their
country and delays and embarrasses the payment of the debt which the gratitude of the nation
has awarded to them, and which in many instances is necessary for their subsistence and comfort
in their declining years.

The character of the claim set up by the bank and the interest of the parties to be immediately
affected by it make it my duty to submit the whole subject to the consideration of Congress,
and I leave it to their wisdom to adopt such measures as the honor of the Government and the
just claims of the individuals injured by the proceedings may be deemed to require.

Having called for the opinion of the Attorney-General upon this occasion with a view to a thorough
investigation of the question which has thus been presented for my consideration, I inclose
a copy of the report of that officer and add my entire concurrence in the views he has taken.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 12, 1834.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit to the House of Representatives a report[3] from the Secretary of State, in relation
to the subject of a resolution of the 8th of this month.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 3: Relating to the boundary line between Georgia and Florida.]

WASHINGTON, February 12, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 4: List of presents from foreign governments to officers of the United States, deposited
in the State Department.]

WASHINGTON, February 22, 1834.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith to the Senate, for their advice concerning its ratification, an additional
and explanatory convention to the treaty of peace, amity, commerce, and navigation between
the United States and the Republic of Chile, which additional and explanatory convention was
concluded at the city of Santiago by the plenipotentiaries of the United States and of Chile
on the 1st of September, 1833. I also transmit a report from the Secretary of State on the subject.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, March 8, 1834.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith to the House a report from the Secretary of State, containing the instructions
and other papers called for by the resolution of the House of the 14th ultimo, "relative to
the trade between the United States and the islands of Cuba and Porto Rico," etc.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, March 11, 1834.

To the Senate:

I renominate Henry D. Gilpin, Peter Wager, and John T. Sullivan, of Philadelphia, and Hugh
McEldery, of Baltimore, to be directors in the Bank of the United States for the year 1834.

I disclaim all pretension of right on the part of the President officially to inquire into
or call in question the reasons of the Senate for rejecting any nomination whatsoever. As the
President is not responsible to them for the reasons which induce him to make a nomination,
so they are not responsible to him for the reasons which induce them to reject it. In these
respects each is independent of the other and both responsible to their respective constituents.
Nevertheless, the attitude in which certain vital interests of the country are placed by the
rejection of the gentlemen now renominated require of me frankly to communicate my views of
the consequences which must necessarily follow this act of the Senate if it be not reconsidered.

The characters and standing of these gentlemen are well known to the community, and eminently
qualify them for the offices to which I propose to appoint them. Their confirmation by the
Senate at its last session to the same offices is proof that such was the opinion of them entertained
by the Senate at that time, and unless something has occurred since to change it this act may
now be referred to as evidence that their talents and pursuits justified their selection. The
refusal, however, to confirm their nominations to the same offices shows that there is something
in the conduct of these gentlemen during the last year which, in the opinion of the Senate,
disqualifies them, and as no charge has been made against them as men or citizens, nothing
which impeaches the fair private character they possessed when the Senate gave them their sanction
at its last session, and as it, moreover, appears from the Journal of the Senate recently transmitted
for my inspection that it was deemed unnecessary to inquire into their qualifications or character,
it is to be inferred that the change in the opinion of the Senate has arisen from the official
conduct of these gentlemen. The only circumstances in their official conduct which have been
deemed of sufficient importance to attract public attention are the two reports made by them
to the executive department of the Government, the one bearing date the 22d day of April and
the other the 19th day of August last, both of which reports were communicated to the Senate
by the Secretary of the Treasury with his reasons for removing the deposit.

The truth of the facts stated in these reports is not, I presume, questioned by anyone. The
high character and standing of the citizens by whom they were made prevent any doubt upon the
subject. Indeed, the statements have not been denied by the president of the bank and the other
directors. On the contrary, they have insisted that they were authorized to use the money of
the bank in the manner stated in the two reports, and have not denied that the charges there
made against the corporation are substantially true.

It must be taken, therefore, as admitted that the statements of the public directors in the
reports above mentioned are correct, and they disclose the most alarming abuses on the part
of the corporation and the most strenuous exertions on their part to put an end to them. They
prove that enormous sums were secretly lavished in a manner and for purposes that can not be
justified, and that the whole of the immense capital of the bank has been virtually placed
at the disposal of a single individual, to be used, if he thinks proper, to corrupt the press
and to control the proceedings of the Government by exercising an undue influence over elections.

The reports are made in obedience to my official directions, and I herewith transmit copies
of my letters calling for information of the proceedings of the bank. Were they bound to disregard
the call? Was it their duty to remain silent while abuses of the most injurious and dangerous
character were daily practiced? Were they bound to conceal from the constituted authorities
a course of measures destructive to the best interests of the country and intended gradually
and secretly to subvert the foundations of our Government and to transfer its powers from the
hands of the people to a great moneyed corporation? Was it their duty to sit in silence at
the board and witness all these abuses without an attempt to correct them, or, in case of failure
there, not to appeal to higher authority? The eighth fundamental rule authorizes any one of
the directors, whether elected or appointed, who may have been absent when an excess of debt
was created, or who may have dissented from the act, to exonerate himself from personal responsibility
by giving notice of the fact to the President of the United States, thus recognizing the propriety
of communicating to that officer the proceedings of the board in such cases. But independently
of any argument to be derived from the principle recognized in the rule referred to, I can
not doubt for a moment that it is the right and the duty of every director at the board to
attempt to correct all illegal proceedings, and, in case of failure, to disclose them, and
that every one of them, whether elected by the stockholders or appointed by the Government,
who had knowledge of the facts and concealed them, would be justly amenable to the severest
censure.

But in the case of the public director it was their peculiar and official duty to make the
disclosures, and the call upon them for information could not have been disregarded without
a flagrant breach of their trust. The directors appointed by the United States can not be regarded
in the light of the ordinary directors of a bank appointed by the stockholders and charged
with the care of their pecuniary interests in the corporation. They have higher and more important
duties. They are public officers. They are placed at the board not merely to represent the
stock held by the United States, but to observe the conduct of the corporation and to watch
over the public interests. It was foreseen that this great moneyed monopoly might be so managed
as to endanger the interests of the country, and it was therefore deemed necessary as a measure
of precaution to place at the board watchful sentinels, who should observe its conduct and
stand ready to report to the proper officers of the Government every act of the board which
might affect injuriously the interests of the people.

The whole frame of the charter, as well as the manner of their appointment, proves this to
be their true character. The United States are not represented at the board by these directors
merely on account of the stock held by the Government. The right of the United States to appoint
directors and the number appointed do not depend upon the amount of the stock, for if every
share should be sold and the United States cease to be a stockholder altogether, yet under
the charter the right to appoint five directors would still remain. In such a case what would
be the character of the directors? They would represent no stock and be chosen by no stockholders.
Yet they would have a right to sit at the board, to vote on all questions submitted to it,
and to be made acquainted with all the proceedings of the corporation. They would not in such
a case be ordinary directors chosen by the stockholders in proportion to their stock, but they
would be public officers, appointed to guard the public interest, and their duties must conform
to their office. They are not the duties of an ordinary director chosen by a stockholder, but
they are the peculiar duties of a public officer who is bound on all occasions to protect to
the utmost of his lawful means the public interests, and, where his own authority is not sufficient
to prevent injury, to inform those to whom the law has confided the necessary power. Such,
then, is the character and such are the duties of the directors appointed by the United States,
whether the public be stockholders or not. They are officers of the United States, and not
the mere representatives of a stockholder.

The mode of their appointment and their tenure of office confirm this position. They are appointed
like other officers of the Government and by the same authority. They do not hold their offices
irrevocably a year after their appointment; on the contrary, by the express terms of the law,
they are liable to be removed from office at any time by the President when in his judgment
the public interest shall require it. In every aspect, therefore, in which the subject can
be considered it is evident that the five directors appointed by the United States are to be
regarded as public officers who are placed there in order to observe the conduct of the corporation
and to prevent abuses which might otherwise be committed.

Such being the character of the directors appointed on behalf of the United States, it is obviously
their duty to resist, and in case of failure to report to the President or to the Secretary
of the Treasury, any proceedings of the board by which the public interests may be injuriously
affected. The President may order a scire facias against the bank for a violation of its charter,
and the Secretary of the Treasury is empowered to direct the money of the United States to
be deposited elsewhere when in his judgment the public interest requires it to be done. The
directors of this bank, like all others, are accustomed to sit with closed doors, and do not
report their proceedings to any department of the Government.

The monthly return which the charter requires to be made to the Treasury Department gives nothing
more than a general statement of its pecuniary condition, and of that but an imperfect one;
for although it shows the amount loaned at the bank and its different branches, it does not
show the condition of its debtors nor the circumstances under which the loans were made. It
does not show whether they were in truth accommodations granted in the regular and ordinary
course of business upon fair banking principles or from other motives. Under the name of loans
advances may be made to persons notoriously insolvent for the most corrupt and improper purposes,
and a course of proceeding may be adopted in violation of its charter, while upon the face
of its monthly statement everything would appear to be fair and correct.

How, then, is the executive branch of the Government to become acquainted with the official
conduct of the public directors or the abuses practiced by the corporation for its private
ends and in violation of its duty to the public? The power of displacing the public directors
and that of issuing a scire facias and of removing the deposits were not intended to be idle
and nugatory provisions without the means of enforcement. Yet they must be wholly inoperative
and useless unless there be some means by which the official conduct of the public directors
and the abuses of power on the part of the corporation may be brought to the knowledge of the
executive department of the Government.

Will it be said that the power is given to the Secretary of the Treasury to examine himself,
or by his authorized agent, into the conduct and condition of the bank? The answer is obvious.
It could not have been expected or intended that he would make an examination unless information
was first given to him which excited his suspicions; and if he did make such a general examination
without previous information of misconduct, it is most probable that in the complex concerns
and accounts of a bank it would result in nothing, whatever abuses might have been practiced.

It is, indeed, the duty of every director to give information of such misconduct on the part
of the board. But the power to issue a scire facias and to remove the deposits presupposes
that the directors elected by the stockholders might abuse their power, and it can not be presumed
that Congress intended to rely on these same directors to give information of their own misconduct.
The Government is not accustomed to rely on the offending party to disclose his offense. It
was intended that the power to issue a scire facias and remove the deposits be real and effective.
The necessary means of information were therefore provided in the charter, and five officers
of the Government, appointed in the usual manner, responsible to the public and not to the
stockholders, were placed as sentinels at the board, and are bound by the nature and character
of their office to resist, and if unsuccessful to report to the proper authority, every infraction
of the charter and every abuse of power, in order that due measures should be taken to punish
or correct it; and in like manner it is their duty to give, when called upon, any explanation
of their own official conduct touching the management of the institution.

It was perhaps scarcely necessary to present to the Senate these views of the power of the
Executive and of the duties of the five directors appointed by the United States. But the bank
is believed to be now striving to obtain for itself the government of the country, and is seeking
by new and strained constructions to wrest from the hands of the constituted authorities the
salutary control reserved by the charter; and as misrepresentation is one of its most usual
weapons of attack, I have deemed it my duty to put before the Senate in a manner not to be
misunderstood the principles on which I have acted.

Entertaining as I do a solemn conviction of the truth of these principles, I must adhere to
them and act upon them with constancy and firmness. Aware as I now am of the dangerous machinations
of the bank, it is more than ever my duty to be vigilant in guarding the rights of the people
from the impending danger. And I should feel that I ought to forfeit the confidence with which
my countrymen have honored me if I did not require regular and full reports of everything in
the proceedings of the bank calculated to affect injuriously the public interests from the
public directors; and if the directors should fail to give the information called for, it would
be my imperious duty to exercise the power conferred on me by law of removing them from office
and of appointing others who would discharge their duties with more fidelity to the public.
I can never suffer anyone to hold office under me who would connive at corruption or who should
fail to give the alarm when he saw the enemies of liberty endeavoring to sap the foundations
of our free institutions and to subject the free people of the United States to the dominion
of a great moneyed corporation.

Any directors of the bank, therefore, who might be appointed by the Government would be required
to report to the Executive as fully as the late directors have done, and more frequently, because
the danger is more imminent; and it would be my duty to require of them a full detail of every
part of the proceedings of the corporation, or any of its officers, in order that I might be
enabled to decide whether I should exercise the power of ordering a scire facias, which is
reserved to the President by the charter, or adopt such other lawful measures as the interests
of the country might require. It is too obvious to be doubted that the misconduct of the corporation
would never have been brought to light by the aid of a public proceeding at the board of directors.
The board when called on by the Government directors refused to institute an inquiry or require
an account, and the mode adopted by the latter was the only one by which the object could be
attained. It would be absurd to admit the right of the Government directors to give information
and at the same time deny the means of obtaining it. It would be but another mode of enabling
the bank to conceal its proceedings and practice with impunity its corruptions. In the mode
of obtaining the information, therefore, and in their efforts to put an end to the abuses disclosed,
as well as in reporting them, the conduct of the late directors was judicious and praiseworthy,
and the honesty, firmness, and intelligence which they have displayed entitle them, in my opinion,
to the gratitude of the country.

But if I do not mistake the principles on which the Senate have recently rejected them, the
conduct which I deem worthy of praise they treat as a breach of duty, and in their judgment
the measures which they took to obtain the informations and their efforts to put an end to
the practices disclosed and the reports they have made to the Executive, although true in all
their parts, are regarded as an offense and supposed to require some decisive mark of strong
disapprobation.

If the views of the Senate be such as I have supposed, the difficulty of sending to the Senate
any other names than those of the late directors will be at once apparent. I can not consent
to place before the Senate the name of anyone who is not prepared with firmness and honesty
to discharge the duties of a public director in the manner they were fulfilled by those whom
the Senate have refused to confirm. If for performing a duty lawfully required of them by the
Executive they are to be punished by the subsequent rejection of the Senate, it would not only
be useless, but cruel, to place men of character and honor in that situation, if even such
men could be found to accept it. If they failed to give the required information or to take
proper measures to obtain it, they would be removed by the Executive. If they gave the information
and took proper measures to obtain it, they would upon the next nomination be rejected by the
Senate. It would be unjust in me to place any other citizens in the predicament in which this
unlooked-for decision of the Senate has placed the estimable and honorable men who were directors
during the last year.

If I am not in error in relation to the principles upon which these gentlemen have been rejected,
the necessary consequence will be that the bank will hereafter be without Government directors,
and the people of the United States must be deprived of their chief means of protection against
its abuses, for whatever conflicting opinions may exist as to the right of the directors appointed
in January, 1833, to hold over until new appointments shall be made, it is very obvious that
whilst their rejection by the Senate remains in force they can not with propriety attempt to
exercise such a power. In the present state of things, therefore, the corporation will be enabled
effectually to accomplish the object it has been so long endeavoring to attain. Its exchange
committees and its delegated powers to its president may hereafter be dispensed with without
incurring the danger of exposing its proceedings to the public view. The sentinels which the
law had placed at its board can no longer appear there.

Justice to myself and to the faithful officers by whom the public has been so well and so honorably
served without compensation or reward during the last year has required of me this full and
frank exposition of my motives for nominating them again after their rejection by the Senate.
I repeat that I do not question the right of the Senate to confirm or reject at their pleasure,
and if there had been any reason to suppose that the rejection in this case had not been produced
by the causes to which I have attributed it, or if my views of their duties and the present
importance of their rigid performance were other than they are, I should have cheerfully acquiesced
and attempted to find others who would accept the unenviable trust; but I can not consent to
appoint directors of the bank to be the subservient instruments or silent spectators of its
abuses and corruptions, nor can I ask honorable men to undertake the thankless duty with the
certain prospect of being rebuked by the Senate for its faithful performance in pursuance of
the lawful directions of the Executive.

I repeat that I do not claim a right to inquire into or officially to censure the acts of the
Senate, but the situation in which the important interests of the American people vested in
the Bank of the United States and affected by its arrangements must necessarily be left by
the rejection of the gentlemen now renominated has made it my duty to give this explanation
to the Senate and submit the matter to their reconsideration. If it shall be determined by
the Senate that all channels of information in relation to the corrupt proceedings of this
dangerous corporation shall be cut off and the Government and country left exposed to its unrestrained
machinations against the purity of the press and public liberty, I shall, after having made
this effort to avert so great an evil, rest for the justification of my official course with
respectful confidence on the judgment of the American people.

In conclusion it is proper I should inform the Senate that there is now no Government director
appointed for the present year, Mr. Bayard, who was nominated, and confirmed by the Senate,
having refused to accept that appointment.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, March 14, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, March 20, 1834.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith to the Senate a report[5] from the Secretary of State, with the documents
accompanying it, in pursuance of their resolution of the 7th instant, relative to the ship
Olive Branch.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 5: Transmitting memorial of the heir at law of General Ira Allen, relative to the
capture, detention, and condemnation of the ship Olive Branch and her cargo by the British
Government; also copy of instructions given to the United States minister to Great Britain
and of correspondence between him and the British Government on the subject.]

WASHINGTON, March 22, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 6: Transmitting correspondence and papers relating to the claim of Don Juan Madrazo,
a Spanish subject, for losses occasioned by acts of the United States and Georgia.]

WASHINGTON, April 1, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, April 2, 1834.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I lay before Congress a communication from the governor of New York and a copy of a communication
from the governor of New Jersey, addressed to me with a view of obtaining the consent of Congress
to an agreement which has been entered into by the States of New York and New Jersey to settle
the boundary line between those States. The agreement and authenticated copies of the acts
of the legislatures of New York and New Jersey relating to it are also transmitted.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, April 8, 1834.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith a report from the Commissioner of the General Land Office, made in compliance
with the resolution of the Senate of the 29th ultimo, calling for "the dates of the proclamations
and the times of sale specified in each of the sales of the public lands in the district of
country acquired from the Choctaw tribe of Indians by the treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek and
from the Creek tribe of Indians in Alabama; and also the causes, if any existed, of a shorter
notice being given for the sale of these lands than is usual in the sale of the other public
lands."

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, April 17, 1834.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit to the Senate, for their consideration and advice with regard to its ratification,
a convention for the settlement of claims between the United States of America and Her Catholic
Majesty, concluded at Madrid on the 17th of February, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 1, 1834.

The Speaker of the House of Representatives:

I submit for the sanction of Congress certain proposals for amending the present laws in relation
to the naval service, prepared and reported by the board constituted under the act of May 19, 1832.

The papers on this subject are Nos. 1 to 5, inclusive.

These proposals are approved by me, and if adopted in the form of laws appear well suited "to
the present and future exigencies of that important arm of national defense."

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 12, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 13, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 15, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 19, 1834.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

I transmit a letter from the Marquis de Rochambeau to the minister of the United States in
France, together with a translation of the same, referring to the petition of certain descendants
of the Count de Rochambeau, which was communicated to the House of Representatives with my
message of the 22d of February, 1833. Extracts from the dispatches of Mr. Livingston to the
Secretary of State respecting the same subject are also sent.

I likewise transmit, for the consideration of the House, a petition from the heirs of the Baron
de Kalb, accompanied by a note from General Lafayette, praying remuneration for the services
rendered by the Baron to the United States during the War of the Revolution.

ANDREW JACKSON.

MAY 21, 1834.

To the Senate of the United States:

I nominate Arthur St. Clair to be register of the land office for the district of lands subject
to sale at Indianapolis, in the State of Indiana, in the place of William B. Slaughter, appointed
during the recess of the Senate.

As Arthur St. Clair was heretofore appointed to this office and was removed during the recess,
it is proper to state the reasons which induce me again to nominate him to the Senate.

During the last summer an agent was appointed by the Treasury Department to examine the land
offices in Indiana, and upon his report to the Department of the proceedings in the register's
and receiver's offices at Indianapolis I deemed it proper to remove both of those officers
without delay. A subsequent examination by a different agent enabled the parties to offer explanations
of the charges against them in the first report, and although I am satisfied that the duty
of the first agent was honestly and faithfully performed by him, yet the circumstances on which
his report is founded have since been so explained as to acquit both of the officers who were
removed of any intentional misconduct. In the case of Mr. St. Clair, however, it appears from
both of the reports that he had permitted the clerk in his office to be the agent of speculations
in land scrip contrary to the instructions received by him from the Treasury Department, but
I am convinced that he himself did not participate in the speculation nor share in the profits,
and that he gave the permission under a mistaken construction of the order and erroneous views
of his duty as an officer. His mistake in this respect seems to have arisen in a great measure
from his reliance on the judgment of others in whom he might well have supposed he could confide,
and who appear to have sanctioned the course he adopted without sufficiently examining the
subject and the evils to which such a practice would necessarily lead. Under these circumstances
I have believed it to be an act of justice to Mr. St. Clair to present his name again to the
Senate, as he can be reinstated in the office from which he was removed without injury to the
person who in the recess was selected to succeed him. And I should have adopted the same course
in relation to the receiver but for the peculiar circumstances in which his successor has been
placed, and which would render it an act of injustice to him not to submit his name to the
Senate for confirmation.

The reports and papers in relation to these removals are herewith transmitted to the Senate,
in order that they may act in the case with the whole evidence before them.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 21, 1834.

This convention has been ratified by me, agreeably to the Constitution, and will be immediately
transmitted to Madrid, where it will doubtless be ratified by Her Majesty.

It is deemed proper to communicate the convention thus early, that provision may be made for
carrying the first article into effect as soon as the ratifications shall have been exchanged,
in order that our citizens may with as little delay as possible obtain the stipulated compensation.

ANDREW JACKSON.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 30, 1834.

To the Senate of the United States:

It having been represented to me by persons whose statements and opinions were thought worthy
of confidence that the trade of the United States might be extended and rendered more lucrative
by commercial arrangements with the countries bordering on the Indian Ocean, and being informed
that the success of any efforts which might be made to accomplish that object would materially
depend upon the secrecy with which they should be conducted, I appointed Mr. Edmund Roberts
a special agent of this Government for the purpose of visiting those seas and concluding such
commercial conventions as might have the effect of securing additional advantages to our trade
in that quarter. This agency has resulted in the conclusion of treaties with the King of Siam
and the Sultan of Muscat, whereby the commerce of the United States with the countries subject
to the dominion of those princes, which had been previously embarrassed by serious disadvantages
and obstructions, is placed upon a footing with that of the most favored nation. These treaties,
the former of which was signed at the city of Siayuthia (commonly called Bankok) on the 20th
day of March, 1833, and the latter at the city of Muscat on the 21st day of September of the
same year, are submitted to the Senate for their consideration and advice.

I transmit a copy of the instructions which were given to the special agent and a communication
made by him to the Secretary of State, containing particular and important information respecting
the countries with which these treaties have been concluded. The expenses of the agency have
been defrayed out of the contingent fund for foreign intercourse.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 13, 1834.

To the Senate:

I have this day received a resolution of the 12th instant, requesting me to communicate to
the Senate a copy of the first official communication which was made to Andrew Stevenson of
the intention of the President to nominate him as a minister plenipotentiary and envoy extraordinary
to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and his answer thereto.

As a compliance with this resolution might be deemed an admission of the right of the Senate
to call upon the President for confidential correspondence of this description, I consider
it proper on this occasion to remark that I do not acknowledge such a right. But to avoid misrepresentation
I herewith transmit a copy of the paper in question, which was the only communication made
to Mr. Stevenson on the subject.

This communication merely intimated the intention of the President in a particular contingency
to offer to Mr. Stevenson the place of minister to the Court of St. James, and as the negotiations
to which it refers were commenced early in April, 1833, in this city instead of London, and
have been since conducted here, no further communication was made to him. I have no knowledge
that an answer was received from Mr. Stevenson; none is to be found in the Department of State
and none has been received by me.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 18, 1834. Suitable explanations were immediately made to the French admiral;
and the officers and crew of the American frigate, with that generosity which distinguishes
their profession, promptly contributed, by a liberal subscription, toward providing for the
families of the unfortunate sufferers. I am sure, however, that I should not do justice to
the feelings of the American people on this occasion if I did not invite Congress to assume,
on their part, this melancholy duty. I propose, therefore, that the same provision be made
by law for these French seamen and their families as would be made for American seamen killed
or wounded in battle. This proceeding will show the deep sensibility with which the disastrous
accident is viewed by the United States, and their readiness to alleviate those consequences
which can not be remedied.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 20, 1834.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

I transmit to the House of Representatives, for their consideration, a memorial from the granddaughters
of the Count de Rochambeau, together with their letter to the minister of the United States
in France, from whom these papers have been recently received.

Translations of these documents accompany them.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 21, 1834.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

The afflicting intelligence of the death of the illustrious Lafayette has been received by
me this morning.

I have issued the general order inclosed[7] to cause appropriate honors to be paid by the Army
and Navy to the memory of one so highly venerated and beloved by my countrymen, and whom Providence
has been pleased to remove so unexpectedly from the agitating scenes of life.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 7: See under Executive Orders, pp. 94-95.]

JUNE 23, 1834.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit for the consideration and action of the Senate a treaty concluded with the Cherokees
for the cession of their lands east of the Mississippi River.

It is known to the Senate that for some years great difficulties have been experienced in the
relations of that tribe. Without further allusion to these than as they furnish strong inducements
to a final settlement of all the questions involved in our intercourse with these Indians,
it is obvious from the existing state of things that they can not continue in their present
position with any hope of ultimate prosperity. I have been, therefore, desirous that a just
and satisfactory arrangement should be made for their removal, and propositions to that effect
upon a liberal scale have been repeatedly made to them. These have until now been rejected,
and their rejection, I have been induced to believe, has been owing more to the ascendency
acquired by individuals who are unwilling to go than to the deliberative opinion of a majority
of the Cherokee people. Some years since a form of government was established among them, but
since the extension of the laws of Georgia and Alabama over them this government can have no
binding effect upon a great majority of them. Its obligation is also denied by many of them
in consequence of the continuance of certain persons in power contrary to the principles of
their fundamental articles of association. A delegation from the persons claiming to hold their
authority under the former existing state of things is in this city, and have communicated
with the War Department on the subject of their situation and removal. They deny the right
of the persons who have negotiated this treaty to perform such an act, and have remonstrated
against it. Copies of their communications are herewith transmitted.

The delegation who have signed the present treaty have produced an authority from William Hicks,
designating himself as principal chief, and others, signing the same in an official capacity.
It is understood from the report of Major Currie, the enrolling agent, that public notice was
given to all persons desirous of emigrating to attend upon a particular day and place in order
to appoint representatives to communicate with the Government and to arrange the terms of cession
and removal. In conformity with this notice a meeting was held and the authority herein referred
to was the result.

In consequence of this application John H. Eaton was appointed to meet and confer with them
and to report their views to the War Department. These are embodied in the treaty which is
presented to your consideration.

Under these circumstances I submit the matter to the decision of the Senate. The practice of
the Government has not been very strict on the subject of the authority of the persons negotiating
treaties on the part of the Indians. Sometimes it has been done by persons representing the
tribe and sometimes by the individuals composing it. I am not aware that a case similar in
its features to the present has ever before required the action of the Government. But, independently
of the considerations which so forcibly urge a settlement of this matter, no injustice can
be done to the Indians by the ratification of this treaty. It is expressly provided that it
will not be binding upon them till a majority has assented to its stipulations. When that assent
is given no one can justly deny its obligation.

The Cherokees east of the Mississippi occupy a portion of the territories of four States, to
wit, Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Alabama. The treaty provides that the communities
inhabiting those divisions shall each be considered as acting for themselves independently
of the others. We have frequently in our intercourse with the Indians treated with different
portions of the same tribe as separate communities. Nor is there any injustice in this as long
as they are separated into divisions without any very strong bond of union, and frequently
with different interests and views. By requiring the assent of a majority to any act which
will bind them we insure the preservation of a principle which will afford adequate security
to their rights.

ANDREW JACKSON.

VETO MESSAGE.[8]

[Footnote 8: Pocket veto.]

DECEMBER 4, 1833.

To the Senate of the United States:

At the close of the last session of Congress I received from that body a bill entitled "An
act to appropriate for a limited time the proceeds of the sales of the public lands of the
United States and for granting lands to certain States." The brief period then remaining before
the rising of Congress and the extreme pressure of official duties unavoidable on such occasions
did not leave me sufficient time for that full consideration of the subject which was due to
its great importance. Subsequent consideration and reflection have, however, confirmed the
objections to the bill which presented themselves to my mind upon its first perusal, and have
satisfied me that it ought not to become a law. I felt myself, therefore, constrained to withhold
from it my approval, and now return it to the Senate, in which it originated, with the reasons
on which my dissent is founded.

I am fully sensible of the importance, as it respects both the harmony and union of the States,
of making, as soon as circumstances will allow of it, a proper and final disposition of the
whole subject of the public lands, and any measure for that object providing for the reimbursement
to the United States of those expenses with which they are justly chargeable that may be consistent
with my views of the Constitution, sound policy, and the rights of the respective States will
readily receive my cooperation. This bill, however, is not of that character. The arrangement
it contemplates is not permanent, but limited to five years only, and in its terms appears
to anticipate alterations within that time, at the discretion of Congress; and it furnishes
no adequate security against those continued agitations of the subject which it should be the
principal object of any measure for the disposition of the public lands to avert.

Neither the merits of the bill under consideration nor the validity of the objections which
I have felt it to be my duty to make to its passage can be correctly appreciated without a
full understanding of the manner in which the public lands upon which it is intended to operate
were acquired and the conditions upon which they are now held by the United States. I will
therefore precede the statement of those objections by a brief but distinct exposition of these
points.

The waste lands within the United States constituted one of the early obstacles to the organization
of any government for the protection of their common interests. In October, 1777, while Congress
were framing the Articles of Confederation, a proposition was made to amend them to the following
effect, viz:

  That the United States in Congress assembled shall have the sole and
  exclusive right and power to ascertain and fix the western boundary of
  such States as claim to the Mississippi or South Sea, and lay out the
  land beyond the boundary so ascertained into separate and independent
  States from time to time as the numbers and circumstances of the people
  thereof may require.

It was, however, rejected, Maryland only voting for it, and so difficult did the subject appear
that the patriots of that body agreed to waive it in the Articles of Confederation and leave
it for future settlement.

On the submission of the Articles to the several State legislatures for ratification the most
formidable objection was found to be in this subject of the waste lands. Maryland, Rhode Island,
and New Jersey instructed their delegates in Congress to move amendments to them providing
that the waste or Crown lands should be considered the common property of the United States,
but they were rejected. All the States except Maryland acceded to the Articles, notwithstanding
some of them did so with the reservation that their claim to those lands as common property
was not thereby abandoned.

On the sole ground that no declaration to that effect was contained in the Articles, Maryland
withheld her assent, and in May, 1779, embodied her objections in the form of instructions
to her delegates, which were entered upon the Journals of Congress. The following extracts
are from that document, viz:

  Is it possible that those States who are ambitiously grasping at
  territories to which in our judgment they have not the least shadow of
  exclusive right will use with greater moderation the increase of wealth
  and power derived from those territories when acquired than what they
  have displayed in their endeavors to acquire them? ...

  We are convinced policy and justice require that a country unsettled at
  the commencement of this war, claimed by the British Crown and ceded to
  it by the treaty of Paris, if wrested from the common enemy by the blood
  and treasure of the thirteen States, should be considered as a common
  property, subject to be parceled out by Congress into free, convenient,
  and independent governments, in such manner and at such times as the
  wisdom of that assembly shall hereafter direct. ...

Virginia proceeded to open a land office for the sale of her Western lands, which produced
such excitement as to induce Congress, in October, 1779, to interpose and earnestly recommend
to "the said State and all States similarly circumstanced to forbear settling or issuing warrants
for such unappropriated lands, or granting the same, during the continuance of the present war."

In March, 1780, the legislature of New York passed an act tendering a cession to the United
States of the claims of that State to the Western territory, preceded by a preamble to the
following effect, viz:

  Whereas nothing under Divine Providence can more effectually contribute
  to the tranquillity and safety of the United States of America than a
  federal alliance on such liberal principles as will give satisfaction to
  its respective members; and whereas the Articles of Confederation and
  Perpetual Union recommended by the honorable Congress of the United
  States of America have not proved acceptable to all the States, it
  having been conceived that a portion of the waste and uncultivated
  territory within the limits or claims of certain States ought to be
  appropriated as a common fund for the expenses of the war, and the
  people of the State of New York being on all occasions disposed to
  manifest their regard for their sister States and their earnest desire
  to promote the general interest and security, and more especially to
  accelerate the federal alliance, by removing as far as it depends upon
  them the before-mentioned impediment to its final accomplishment. ...

This act of New York, the instructions of Maryland, and a remonstrance of Virginia were referred
to a committee of Congress, who reported a preamble and resolutions thereon, which were adopted
on the 6th September, 1780; so much of which as is necessary to elucidate the subject is to
the following effect, viz:

  That it appears advisable to press upon those States which can remove
  the embarrassments respecting the Western country a liberal surrender of
  a portion of their territorial claims, since they can not be preserved
  entire without endangering the stability of the General Confederacy; to
  remind them how indispensably necessary it is to establish the Federal
  Union on a fixed and permanent basis and on principles acceptable to all
  its respective members; how essential to public credit and confidence,
  to the support of our Army, to the vigor of our counsels and success of
  our measures, to our tranquillity at home, our reputation abroad, to our
  very existence as a free, sovereign, and independent people; that they
  are fully persuaded the wisdom of the several legislatures will lead
  them to a full and impartial consideration of a subject so interesting
  to the United States, and so necessary to the happy establishment of the
  Federal Union; that they are confirmed in these expectations by a review
  of the before-mentioned act of the legislature of New York, submitted to
  their consideration. ...

  Resolved, That copies of the several papers referred to the committee
  be transmitted, with a copy of the report, to the legislatures of the
  several States, and that it be earnestly recommended to those States who
  have claims to the Western country to pass such laws and give their
  delegates in Congress such powers as may effectually remove the only
  obstacle to a final ratification of the Articles of Confederation, and
  that the legislature of Maryland be earnestly requested to authorize
  their delegates in Congress to subscribe the said Articles.

Following up this policy, Congress proceeded, on the 10th October, 1780, to pass a resolution
pledging the United States to the several States as to the manner in which any lands that might
be ceded by them should be disposed of, the material parts of which are as follows, viz:

  Resolved, That the unappropriated lands which may be ceded or
  relinquished to the United States by any particular State pursuant to
  the recommendation of Congress of the 6th day of September last shall be
  disposed of for the common benefit of the United States and be settled
  and formed into distinct republican States, which shall become members
  of the Federal Union and have the same rights of sovereignty, freedom,
  and independence as the other States; ... that the said lands shall be
  granted or settled at such times and under such regulations as shall
  hereafter be agreed on by the United States in Congress assembled, or
  nine or more of them.

In February, 1781, the legislature of Maryland passed an act authorizing their delegates in
Congress to sign the Articles of Confederation. The following are extracts from the preamble
and body of the act, viz:

  Whereas it hath been said that the common enemy is encouraged by this
  State not acceding to the Confederation to hope that the union of the
  sister States may be dissolved, and therefore prosecutes the war in
  expectation of an event so disgraceful to America, and our friends and
  illustrious ally are impressed with an idea that the common cause would
  be promoted by our formally acceding to the Confederation. ...

The act of which this is the preamble authorizes the delegates of that State to sign the Articles,
and proceeds to declare "that by acceding to the said Confederation this State doth not relinquish,
nor intend to relinquish, any right or interest she hath with the other united or confederated
States to the back country," etc.

On the 1st of March, 1781, the delegates of Maryland signed the Articles of Confederation,
and the Federal Union under that compact was complete. The conflicting claims to the Western
lands, however, were not disposed of, and continued to give great trouble to Congress. Repeated
and urgent calls were made by Congress upon the States claiming them to make liberal cessions
to the United States, and it was not until long after the present Constitution was formed that
the grants were completed.

The deed of cession from New York was executed on the 1st of March, 1781, the day the Articles
of Confederation were ratified, and it was accepted by Congress on the 29th October, 1782.
One of the conditions of this cession thus tendered and accepted was that the lands ceded to
the United States "shall be and inure for the use and benefit of such of the United States
as shall become members of the federal alliance of the said States, and for no other use or
purpose whatsoever."

The Virginia deed of cession was executed and accepted on the 1st day of March, 1784.

Within the years 1785, 1786, and 1787 Massachusetts, Connecticut, and South Carolina ceded
their claims upon similar conditions. The Federal Government went into operation under the
existing Constitution on the 4th of March, 1789.

Thus the Constitution left all the compacts before made in full force, and the rights of all
parties remained the same under the new Government as they were under the Confederation.

The deed of cession of North Carolina was executed in December, 1789, and accepted by an act
of Congress approved April 2, 1790. The third condition of this cession was in the following
words, viz:

  That all the lands intended to be ceded by virtue of this act to the
  United States of America, and not appropriated as before mentioned,
  shall be considered as a common fund for the use and benefit of the
  United States of America, North Carolina inclusive, according to their
  respective and usual proportions of the general charge and expenditure,
  and shall be faithfully disposed of for that purpose, and for no other
  use or purpose whatever.

The cession of Georgia was completed on the 16th June, 1802, and in its leading condition is
precisely like that of Virginia and North Carolina. This grant completed the title of the United
States to all those lands generally called public lands lying within the original limits of
the Confederacy. Those which have been acquired by the purchase of Louisiana and Florida, having
been paid for out of the common treasure of the United States, are as much the property of
the General Government, to be disposed of for the common benefit, as those ceded by the several
States.

By the facts here collected from the early history of our Republic it appears that the subject
of the public lands entered into the elements of its institutions. It was only upon the condition
that those lands should be considered as common property, to be disposed of for the benefit
of the United States, that some of the States agreed to come into a "perpetual union." The
States claiming those lands acceded to those views and transferred their claims to the United
States upon certain specific conditions, and on those conditions the grants were accepted.
These solemn compacts, invited by Congress in a resolution declaring the purposes to which
the proceeds of these lands should be applied, originating before the Constitution and forming
the basis on which it was made, bound the United States to a particular course of policy in
relation to them by ties as strong as can be invented to secure the faith of nations.

As early as May, 1785, Congress, in execution of these compacts, passed an ordinance providing
for the sales of lands in the Western territory and directing the proceeds to be paid into
the Treasury of the United States. With the same object other ordinances were adopted prior
to the organization of the present Government.

In further execution of these compacts the Congress of the United States under the present
Constitution, as early as the 4th of August, 1790, in "An act making provision for the debt
of the United States," enacted as follows, viz:

  That the proceeds of sales which shall be made of lands in the
  Western territory now belonging or that may hereafter belong to the
  United States shall be and are hereby appropriated toward sinking or
  discharging the debts for the payment whereof the United States now
  are or by virtue of this act may be holden, and shall be applied solely
  to that use until the said debt shall be fully satisfied.

To secure to the Government of the United States forever the power to execute these compacts
in good faith the Congress of the Confederation, as early as July 13, 1787, in an ordinance
for the government of the territory of the United States northwest of the river Ohio, prescribed
to the people inhabiting the Western territory certain conditions which were declared to be
"articles of compact between the original States and the people and States in the said territory,"
which should "forever remain unalterable, unless by common consent." In one of these articles
it is declared that--

  The legislatures of those districts, or new States, shall never
  interfere with the primary disposal of the soil by the United States in
  Congress assembled, nor with any regulations Congress may find necessary
  for securing the title in such soil to the bona fide purchasers.

This condition has been exacted from the people of all the new territories, and to put its
obligation beyond dispute each new State carved out of the public domain has been required
explicitly to recognize it as one of the conditions of admission into the Union. Some of them
have declared through their conventions in separate acts that their people "forever disclaim
all right and title to the waste and unappropriated lands lying within this State, and that
the same shall be and remain at the sole and entire disposition of the United States."

With such care have the United States reserved to themselves, in all their acts down to this
day, in legislating for the Territories and admitting States into the Union, the unshackled
power to execute in good faith the compacts of cession made with the original States. From
these facts and proceedings it plainly and certainly results--

1. That one of the fundamental principles on which the Confederation of the United States was
originally based was that the waste lands of the West within their limits should be the common
property of the United States.

2. That those lands were ceded to the United States by the States which claimed them, and the
cessions were accepted on the express condition that they should be disposed of for the common
benefit of the States, according to their respective proportions in the general charge and
expenditure, and for no other purpose whatsoever.

3. That in execution of these solemn compacts the Congress of the United States did, under
the Confederation, proceed to sell these lands and put the avails into the common Treasury,
and under the new Constitution did repeatedly pledge them for the payment of the public debt
of the United States, by which pledge each State was expected to profit in proportion to the
general charge to be made upon it for that object.

These are the first principles of this whole subject, which I think can not be contested by
anyone who examines the proceedings of the Revolutionary Congress, the cessions of the several
States, and the acts of Congress under the new Constitution. Keeping them deeply impressed
upon the mind, let us proceed to examine how far the objects of the cessions have been completed,
and see whether those compacts are not still obligatory upon the United States.

The debt for which these lands were pledged by Congress may be considered as paid, and they
are consequently released from that lien. But that pledge formed no part of the compacts with
the States, or of the conditions upon which the cessions were made. It was a contract between
new parties--between the United States and their creditors. Upon payment of the debt the compacts
remain in full force, and the obligation of the United States to dispose of the lands for the
common benefit is neither destroyed nor impaired. As they can not now be executed in that mode,
the only legitimate question which can arise is, In what other way are these lands to be hereafter
disposed of for the common benefit of the several States, "according to their respective and
usual proportion in the general charge and expenditure?" The cessions of Virginia, North Carolina,
and Georgia in express terms, and all the rest impliedly, not only provide thus specifically
the proportion according to which each State shall profit by the proceeds of the land sales,
but they proceed to declare that they shall be "faithfully and bona fide disposed of for that
purpose, and for no other use or purpose whatsoever." This is the fundamental law of the land
at this moment, growing out of compacts which are older than the Constitution, and formed the
corner stone on which the Union itself was erected.

In the practice of the Government the proceeds of the public lands have not been set apart
as a separate fund for the payment of the public debt, but have been and are now paid into
the Treasury, where they constitute a part of the aggregate of revenue upon which the Government
draws as well for its current expenditures as for payment of the public debt. In this manner
they have heretofore and do now lessen the general charge upon the people of the several States
in the exact proportions stipulated in the compacts.

These general charges have been composed not only of the public debt and the usual expenditures
attending the civil and military administrations of the Government, but of the amounts paid
to the States with which these compacts were formed, the amounts paid the Indians for their
right of possession, the amounts paid for the purchase of Louisiana and Florida, and the amounts
paid surveyors, registers, receivers, clerks, etc., employed in preparing for market and selling
the Western domain.

From the origin of the land system down to the 30th September, 1832, the amount expended for
all these purposes has been about $49,701,280, and the amount received from the sales, deducting
payments on account of roads, etc., about $38,386,624. The revenue arising from the public
lands, therefore, has not been sufficient to meet the general charges on the Treasury which
have grown out of them by about $11,314,656. Yet in having been applied to lessen those charges
the conditions of the compacts have been thus far fulfilled, and each State has profited according
to its usual proportion in the general charge and expenditure. The annual proceeds of land
sales have increased and the charges have diminished, so that at a reduced price those lands
would now defray all current charges growing out of them and save the Treasury from further
advances on their account. Their original intent and object, therefore, would be accomplished
as fully as it has hitherto been by reducing the price and hereafter, as heretofore, bringing
the proceeds into the Treasury. Indeed, as this is the only mode in which the objects of the
original compact can be attained, it may be considered for all practical purposes that it is
one of their requirements.

The bill before me begins with an entire subversion of every one of the compacts by which the
United States became possessed of their Western domain, and treats the subject as if they never
had existence and as if the United States were the original and unconditional owners of all
the public lands. The first section directs--

  That from and after the 31st day of December, 1832, there shall be
  allowed and paid to each of the States of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois,
  Alabama, Missouri, Mississippi, and Louisiana, over and above what each
  of the said States is entitled to by the terms of the compacts entered
  into between them respectively upon their admission into the Union and
  the United States, the sum of 12-1/2 per cent upon the net amount of the
  sales of the public lands which subsequent to the day aforesaid shall be
  made within the several limits of the said States, which said sum of
  12-1/2 per cent shall be applied to some object or objects of internal
  improvement or education within the said States under the direction of
  their several legislatures.

This 12-1/2 per cent is to be taken out of the net proceeds of the land sales before any apportionment
is made, and the same seven States which are first to receive this proportion are also to receive
their due proportion of the residue according to the ratio of general distribution.

Now, waiving all considerations of equity or policy in regard to this provision, what more
need be said to demonstrate its objectionable character than that it is in direct and undisguised
violation of the pledge given by Congress to the States before a single cession was made, that
it abrogates the condition upon which some of the States came into the Union, and that it sets
at naught the terms of cession spread upon the face of every grant under which the title to
that portion of the public land is held by the Federal Government?

In the apportionment of the remaining seven-eighths of the proceeds this bill, in a manner
equally undisguised, violates the conditions upon which the United States acquired title to
the ceded lands. Abandoning altogether the ratio of distribution according to the general charge
and expenditure provided by the compacts, it adopts that of the Federal representative population.
Virginia and other States which ceded their lands upon the express condition that they should
receive a benefit from their sales in proportion to their part of the general charge are by
the bill allowed only a portion of seven-eighths of their proceeds, and that not in the proportion
of general charge and expenditure, but in the ratio of their Federal representative population.

The Constitution of the United States did not delegate to Congress the power to abrogate these
compacts. On the contrary, by declaring that nothing in it "shall be so construed as to prejudice
any claims of the United States or of any particular State," it virtually provides that these
compacts and the rights they secure shall remain untouched by the legislative power, which
shall only make all "needful rules and regulations" for carrying them into effect. All beyond
this would seem to be an assumption of undelegated power.

These ancient compacts are invaluable monuments of an age of virtue, patriotism, and disinterestedness.
They exhibit the price that great States which had won liberty were willing to pay for that
union without which they plainly saw it could not be preserved. It was not for territory or
state power that our Revolutionary fathers took up arms; it was for individual liberty and
the right of self-government. The expulsion from the continent of British armies and British
power was to them a barren conquest if through the collisions of the redeemed States the individual
rights for which they fought should become the prey of petty military tyrannies established
at home. To avert such consequences and throw around liberty the shield of union, States whose
relative strength at the time gave them a preponderating power magnanimously sacrificed domains
which would have made them the rivals of empires, only stipulating that they should be disposed
of for the common benefit of themselves and the other confederated States. This enlightened
policy produced union and has secured liberty. It has made our waste lands to swarm with a
busy people and added many powerful States to our Confederation. As well for the fruits which
these noble works of our ancestors have produced as for the devotedness in which they originated,
we should hesitate before we demolish them.

But there are other principles asserted in the bill which would have impelled me to withhold
my signature had I not seen in it a violation of the compacts by which the United States acquired
title to a large portion of the public lands. It reasserts the principle contained in the bill
authorizing a subscription to the stock of the Maysville, Washington, Paris and Lexington Turnpike
Road Company, from which I was compelled to withhold my consent for reasons contained in my
message of the 27th May, 1830, to the House of Representatives.

The leading principle then asserted was that Congress possesses no constitutional power to
appropriate any part of the moneys of the United States for objects of a local character within
the States. That principle I can not be mistaken in supposing has received the unequivocal
sanction of the American people, and all subsequent reflection has but satisfied me more thoroughly
that the interests of our people and the purity of our Government, if not its existence, depend
on its observance. The public lands are the common property of the United States, and the moneys
arising from their sales are a part of the public revenue. This bill proposes to raise from
and appropriate a portion of this public revenue to certain States, providing expressly that
it shall "be applied to objects of internal improvement or education within those States,"
and then proceeds to appropriate the balance to all the States, with the declaration that it
shall be applied "to such purposes as the legislatures of the said respective States shall
deem proper." The former appropriation is expressly for internal improvements or education,
without qualification as to the kind of improvements, and therefore in express violation of
the principle maintained in my objections to the turnpike-road bill above referred to. The
latter appropriation is more broad, and gives the money to be applied to any local purpose
whatsoever. It will not be denied that under the provisions of the bill a portion of the money
might have been applied to making the very road to which the bill of 1830 had reference, and
must of course come within the scope of the same principle. If the money of the United States
can not be applied to local purposes through its own agents, as little can it be permitted
to be thus expended through the agency of the State governments.

It has been supposed that with all the reductions in our revenue which could be speedily effected
by Congress without injury to the substantial interests of the country there might be for some
years to come a surplus of moneys in the Treasury, and that there was in principle no objection
to returning them to the people by whom they were paid. As the literal accomplishment of such
an object is obviously impracticable, it was thought admissible, as the nearest approximation
to it, to hand them over to the State governments, the more immediate representatives of the
people, to be by them applied to the benefit of those to whom they properly belonged. The principle
and the object were to return to the people an unavoidable surplus of revenue which might have
been paid by them under a system which could not at once be abandoned, but even this resource,
which at one time seemed to be almost the only alternative to save the General Government from
grasping unlimited power over internal improvements, was suggested with doubts of its constitutionality.
It seizes the entire proceeds of one source of revenue and sets them apart as a surplus, making
it necessary to raise the moneys for supporting the Government and meeting the general charges
from other sources. It even throws the entire land system upon the customs for its support,
and makes the public lands a perpetual charge upon the Treasury. It does not return to the
people moneys accidentally or unavoidably paid by them to the Government, by which they are
not wanted, but compels the people to pay moneys into the Treasury for the mere purpose of
creating a surplus for distribution to their State governments. If this principle be once admitted,
it is not difficult to perceive to what consequences it may lead. Already this bill, by throwing
the land system on the revenues from imports for support, virtually distributes among the States
a part of those revenues. The proportion may be increased from time to time, without any departure
from the principle now asserted, until the State governments shall derive all the funds necessary
for their support from the Treasury of the United States, or, if a sufficient supply should
be obtained by some States and not by others, the deficient States might complain; and to put
an end to all further difficulty Congress, without assuming any new principle, need go but
one step further and put the salaries of all the State governors, judges, and other officers,
with a sufficient sum for other expenses, in their general appropriation bill.

It appears to me that a more direct road to consolidation can not be devised. Money is power,
and in that Government which pays all the public officers of the States will all political
power be substantially concentrated. The State governments, if governments they might be called,
would lose all their independence and dignity; the economy which now distinguishes them would
be converted into a profusion, limited only by the extent of the supply. Being the dependents
of the General Government, and looking to its Treasury as the source of all their emoluments,
the State officers, under whatever names they might pass and by whatever forms their duties
might be prescribed, would in effect be the mere stipendiaries and instruments of the central
power.

I am quite sure that the intelligent people of our several States will be satisfied on a little
reflection that it is neither wise nor safe to release the members of their local legislatures
from the responsibility of levying the taxes necessary to support their State governments and
vest it in Congress, over most of whose members they have no control. They will not think it
expedient that Congress shall be the taxgatherer and paymaster of all their State governments,
thus amalgamating all their officers into one mass of common interest and common feeling. It
is too obvious that such a course would subvert our well-balanced system of government, and
ultimately deprive us of all the blessings now derived from our happy Union.

However willing I might be that any unavoidable surplus in the Treasury should be returned
to the people through their State governments, I can not assent to the principle that a surplus
may be created for the purpose of distribution. Viewing this bill as in effect assuming the
right not only to create a surplus for that purpose, but to divide the contents of the Treasury
among the States without limitation, from whatever source they may be derived, and asserting
the power to raise and appropriate money for the support of every State government and institution,
as well as for making every local improvement, however trivial, I can not give it my assent.

It is difficult to perceive what advantages would accrue to the old States or the new from
the system of distribution which this bill proposes if it were otherwise unobjectionable. It
requires no argument to prove that if $3,000,000 a year, or any other sum, shall be taken out
of the Treasury by this bill for distribution it must be replaced by the same sum collected
from the people through some other means. The old States will receive annually a sum of money
from the Treasury, but they will pay in a larger sum, together with the expenses of collection
and distribution. It is only their proportion of seven-eighths of the proceeds of land sales
which they are to receive, but they must pay their due proportion of the whole. Disguise it
as we may, the bill proposes to them a dead loss in the ratio of eight to seven, in addition
to expenses and other incidental losses. This assertion is not the less true because it may
not at first be palpable. Their receipts will be in large sums, but their payments in small
ones. The governments of the States will receive seven dollars, for which the people of the
States will pay eight. The large sums received will be palpable to the senses; the small sums
paid it requires thought to identify. But a little consideration will satisfy the people that
the effect is the same as if seven hundred dollars were given them from the public Treasury,
for which they were at the same time required to pay in taxes, direct or indirect, eight hundred.

I deceive myself greatly if the new States would find their interests promoted by such a system
as this bill proposes. Their true policy consists in the rapid settling and improvement of
the waste lands within their limits. As a means of hastening those events, they have long been
looking to a reduction in the price of public lands upon the final payment of the national
debt. The effect of the proposed system would be to prevent that reduction. It is true the
bill reserves to Congress the power to reduce the price, but the effect of its details as now
arranged would probably be forever to prevent its exercise.

With the just men who inhabit the new States it is a sufficient reason to reject this system
that it is in violation of the fundamental laws of the Republic and its Constitution. But if
it were a mere question of interest or expediency they would still reject it. They would not
sell their bright prospect of increasing wealth and growing power at such a price. They would
not place a sum of money to be paid into their treasuries in competition with the settlement
of their waste lands and the increase of their population. They would not consider a small
or a large annual sum to be paid to their governments and immediately expended as an equivalent
for that enduring wealth which is composed of flocks and herds and cultivated farms. No temptation
will allure them from that object of abiding interest, the settlement of their waste lands,
and the increase of a hardy race of free citizens, their glory in peace and their defense in war.

On the whole, I adhere to the opinion, expressed by me in my annual message of 1832, that it
is our true policy that the public lands shall cease as soon as practicable to be a source
of revenue, except for the payment of those general charges which grow out of the acquisition
of the lands, their survey and sale. Although these expenses have not been met by the proceeds
of sales heretofore, it is quite certain they will be hereafter, even after a considerable
reduction in the price. By meeting in the Treasury so much of the general charge as arises
from that source they will hereafter, as they have been heretofore, be disposed of for the
common benefit of the United States, according to the compacts of cession. I do not doubt that
it is the real interest of each and all the States in the Union, and particularly of the new
States, that the price of these lands shall be reduced and graduated, and that after they have
been offered for a certain number of years the refuse remaining unsold shall be abandoned to
the States and the machinery of our land system entirely withdrawn. It can not be supposed
the compacts intended that the United States should retain forever a title to lands within
the States which are of no value, and no doubt is entertained that the general interest would
be best promoted by surrendering such lands to the States.

This plan for disposing of the public lands impairs no principle, violates no compact, and
deranges no system. Already has the price of those lands been reduced from $2 per acre to $1.25,
and upon the will of Congress it depends whether there shall be a further reduction. While
the burdens of the East are diminishing by the reduction of the duties upon imports, it seems
but equal justice that the chief burden of the West should be lightened in an equal degree
at least. It would be just to the old States and the new, conciliate every interest, disarm
the subject of all its dangers, and add another guaranty to the perpetuity of our happy Union.

Sensible, however, of the difficulties which surround this important subject, I can only add
to my regrets at finding myself again compelled to disagree with the legislative power the
sincere declaration that any plan which shall promise a final and satisfactory disposition
of the question and be compatible with the Constitution and public faith shall have my hearty
concurrence.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[NOTE.--For reasons for the pocket veto of "An act to improve the navigation of the Wabash
River," see Sixth Annual Message, dated December 1, 1834, pp. 118-123.]

PROTEST.[9]

[Footnote 9: The Senate ordered that it be not entered on the Journal.]

APRIL 15, 1834.

To the Senate of the United States:

It appears by the published Journal of the Senate that on the 26th of December last a resolution
was offered by a member of the Senate, which after a protracted debate was on the 28th day
of March last modified by the mover and passed by the votes of twenty-six Senators out of forty-six
who were present and voted, in the following words, viz:

  Resolved, That the President, in the late Executive proceedings in
  relation to the public revenue, has assumed upon himself authority and
  power not conferred by the Constitution and laws, but in derogation of
  both.

Having had the honor, through the voluntary suffrages of the American people, to fill the office
of President of the United States during the period which may be presumed to have been referred
to in this resolution, it is sufficiently evident that the censure it inflicts was intended
for myself. Without notice, unheard and untried, I thus find myself charged on the records
of the Senate, and in a form hitherto unknown in our history, with the high crime of violating
the laws and Constitution of my country.

It can seldom be necessary for any department of the Government, when assailed in conversation
or debate or by the strictures of the press or of popular assemblies, to step out of its ordinary
path for the purpose of vindicating its conduct or of pointing out any irregularity or injustice
in the manner of the attack; but when the Chief Executive Magistrate is, by one of the most
important branches of the Government in its official capacity, in a public manner, and by its
recorded sentence, but without precedent, competent authority, or just cause, declared guilty
of a breach of the laws and Constitution, it is due to his station, to public opinion, and
to a proper self-respect that the officer thus denounced should promptly expose the wrong which
has been done.

In the present case, moreover, there is even a stronger necessity for such a vindication.

The duty of defending so far as in him lies the integrity of the Constitution would indeed
have resulted from the very nature of his office, but by thus expressing it in the official
oath or affirmation, which in this respect differs from that of any other functionary, the
founders of our Republic have attested their sense of its importance and have given to it a
peculiar solemnity and force. Bound to the performance of this duty by the oath I have taken,
by the strongest obligations of gratitude to the American people, and by the ties which unite
my every earthly interest with the welfare and glory of my country, and perfectly convinced
that the discussion and passage of the above-mentioned resolution were not only unauthorized
by the Constitution, but in many respects repugnant to its provisions and subversive of the
rights secured by it to other coordinate departments, I deem it an imperative duty to maintain
the supremacy of that sacred instrument and the immunities of the department intrusted to my
care by all means consistent with my own lawful powers, with the rights of others, and with
the genius of our civil institutions. To this end I have caused this my solemn protest against
the aforesaid proceedings to be placed on the files of the executive department and to be transmitted
to the Senate.

It is alike due to the subject, the Senate, and the people that the views which I have taken
of the proceedings referred to, and which compel me to regard them in the light that has been
mentioned, should be exhibited at length, and with the freedom and firmness which are required
by an occasion so unprecedented and peculiar.

Under the Constitution of the United States the powers and functions of the various departments
of the Federal Government and their responsibilities for violation or neglect of duty are clearly
defined or result by necessary inference. The legislative power is, subject to the qualified
negative of the President, vested in the Congress of the United States, composed of the Senate
and House of Representatives; the executive power is vested exclusively in the President, except
that in the conclusion of treaties and in certain appointments to office he is to act with
the advice and consent of the Senate; the judicial power is vested exclusively in the Supreme
and other courts of the United States, except in cases of impeachment, for which purpose the
accusatory power is vested in the House of Representatives and that of hearing and determining
in the Senate. But although for the special purposes which have been mentioned there is an
occasional intermixture of the powers of the different departments, yet with these exceptions
each of the three great departments is independent of the others in its sphere of action, and
when it deviates from that sphere is not responsible to the others further than it is expressly
made so in the Constitution. In every other respect each of them is the coequal of the other
two, and all are the servants of the American people, without power or right to control or
censure each other in the service of their common superior, save only in the manner and to
the degree which that superior has prescribed.

The responsibilities of the President are numerous and weighty. He is liable to impeachment
for high crimes and misdemeanors, and on due conviction to removal from office and perpetual
disqualification; and notwithstanding such conviction, he may also be indicted and punished
according to law. He is also liable to the private action of any party who may have been injured
by his illegal mandates or instructions in the same manner and to the same extent as the humblest
functionary. In addition to the responsibilities which may thus be enforced by impeachment,
criminal prosecution, or suit at law, he is also accountable at the bar of public opinion for
every act of his Administration. Subject only to the restraints of truth and justice, the free
people of the United States have the undoubted right, as individuals or collectively, orally
or in writing, at such times and in such language and form as they may think proper, to discuss
his official conduct and to express and promulgate their opinions concerning it. Indirectly
also his conduct may come under review in either branch of the Legislature, or in the Senate
when acting in its executive capacity, and so far as the executive or legislative proceedings
of these bodies may require it, it may be exercised by them. These are believed to be the proper
and only modes in which the President of the United States is to be held accountable for his
official conduct.

Tested by these principles, the resolution of the Senate is wholly unauthorized by the Constitution,
and in derogation of its entire spirit. It assumes that a single branch of the legislative
department may for the purposes of a public censure, and without any view to legislation or
impeachment, take up, consider, and decide upon the official acts of the Executive. But in
no part of the Constitution is the President subjected to any such responsibility, and in no
part of that instrument is any such power conferred on either branch of the Legislature.

The justice of these conclusions will be illustrated and confirmed by a brief analysis of the
powers of the Senate and a comparison of their recent proceedings with those powers.

The high functions assigned by the Constitution to the Senate are in their nature either legislative,
executive, or judicial. It is only in the exercise of its judicial powers, when sitting as
a court for the trial of impeachments, that the Senate is expressly authorized and necessarily
required to consider and decide upon the conduct of the President or any other public officer.
Indirectly, however, as has already been suggested, it may frequently be called on to perform
that office. Cases may occur in the course of its legislative or executive proceedings in which
it may be indispensable to the proper exercise of its powers that it should inquire into and
decide upon the conduct of the President or other public officers, and in every such case its
constitutional right to do so is cheerfully conceded. But to authorize the Senate to enter
on such a task in its legislative or executive capacity the inquiry must actually grow out
of and tend to some legislative or executive action, and the decision, when expressed, must
take the form of some appropriate legislative or executive act.

The resolution in question was introduced, discussed, and passed not as a joint but as a separate
resolution. It asserts no legislative power, proposes no legislative action, and neither possesses
the form nor any of the attributes of a legislative measure. It does not appear to have been
entertained or passed with any view or expectation of its issuing in a law or joint resolution,
or in the repeal of any law or joint resolution, or in any other legislative action.

Whilst wanting both the form and substance of a legislative measure, it is equally manifest
that the resolution was not justified by any of the executive powers conferred on the Senate.
These powers relate exclusively to the consideration of treaties and nominations to office,
and they are exercised in secret session and with closed doors. This resolution does not apply
to any treaty or nomination, and was passed in a public session.

Nor does this proceeding in any way belong to that class of incidental resolutions which relate
to the officers of the Senate, to their Chamber and other appurtenances, or to subjects of
order and other matters of the like nature, in all which either House may lawfully proceed
without any cooperation with the other or with the President.

On the contrary, the whole phraseology and sense of the resolution seem to be judicial. Its
essence, true character, and only practical effect are to be found in the conduct which it
charges upon the President and in the judgment which it pronounces on that conduct. The resolution,
therefore, though discussed and adopted by the Senate in its legislative capacity, is in its
office and in all its characteristics essentially judicial.

That the Senate possesses a high judicial power and that instances may occur in which the President
of the United States will be amenable to it is undeniable; but under the provisions of the
Constitution it would seem to be equally plain that neither the President nor any other officer
can be rightfully subjected to the operation of the judicial power of the Senate except in
the cases and under the forms prescribed by the Constitution.

The Constitution declares that "the President, Vice-President, and all civil officers of the
United States shall be removed from office on impeachment for and conviction of treason, bribery,
or other high crimes and misdemeanors;" that the House of Representatives "shall have the sole
power of impeachment;" that the Senate "shall have the sole power to try all impeachments;"
that "when sitting for that purpose they shall be on oath or affirmation;" that "when the President
of the United States is tried the Chief Justice shall preside;" that "no person shall be convicted
without the concurrence of two-thirds of the members present," and that "judgment shall not
extend further than to removal from office and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office
of honor, trust, or profit under the United States."

The resolution above quoted charges, in substance, that in certain proceedings relating to
the public revenue the President has usurped authority and power not conferred upon him by
the Constitution and laws, and that in doing so he violated both. Any such act constitutes
a high crime--one of the highest, indeed, which the President can commit--a crime which justly
exposes him to impeachment by the House of Representatives, and, upon due conviction, to removal
from office and to the complete and immutable disfranchisement prescribed by the Constitution.
The resolution, then, was in substance an impeachment of the President, and in its passage
amounts to a declaration by a majority of the Senate that he is guilty of an impeachable offense.
As such it is spread upon the journals of the Senate, published to the nation and to the world,
made part of our enduring archives, and incorporated in the history of the age. The punishment
of removal from office and future disqualification does not, it is true, follow this decision,
nor would it have followed the like decision if the regular forms of proceeding had been pursued,
because the requisite number did not concur in the result. But the moral influence of a solemn
declaration by a majority of the Senate that the accused is guilty of the offense charged upon
him has been as effectually secured as if the like declaration had been made upon an impeachment
expressed in the same terms. Indeed, a greater practical effect has been gained, because the
votes given for the resolution, though not sufficient to authorize a judgment of guilty on
an impeachment, were numerous enough to carry that resolution.

That the resolution does not expressly allege that the assumption of power and authority which
it condemns was intentional and corrupt is no answer to the preceding view of its character
and effect. The act thus condemned necessarily implies volition and design in the individual
to whom it is imputed, and, being unlawful in its character, the legal conclusion is that it
was prompted by improper motives and committed with an unlawful intent. The charge is not of
a mistake in the exercise of supposed powers, but of the assumption of powers not conferred
by the Constitution and laws, but in derogation of both, and nothing is suggested to excuse
or palliate the turpitude of the act. In the absence of any such excuse or palliation there
is only room for one inference, and that is that the intent was unlawful and corrupt. Besides,
the resolution not only contains no mitigating suggestions, but, on the contrary, it holds
up the act complained of as justly obnoxious to censure and reprobation, and thus as distinctly
stamps it with impurity of motive as if the strongest epithets had been used.

The President of the United States, therefore, has been by a majority of his constitutional
triers accused and found guilty of an impeachable offense, but in no part of this proceeding
have the directions of the Constitution been observed.

The impeachment, instead of being preferred and prosecuted by the House of Representatives,
originated in the Senate, and was prosecuted without the aid or concurrence of the other House.
The oath or affirmation prescribed by the Constitution was not taken by the Senators, the Chief
Justice did not preside, no notice of the charge was given to the accused, and no opportunity
afforded him to respond to the accusation, to meet his accusers face to face, to cross-examine
the witnesses, to procure counteracting testimony, or to be heard in his defense. The safeguards
and formalities which the Constitution has connected with the power of impeachment were doubtless
supposed by the framers of that instrument to be essential to the protection of the public
servant, to the attainment of justice, and to the order, impartiality, and dignity of the procedure.
These safeguards and formalities were not only practically disregarded in the commencement
and conduct of these proceedings, but in their result I find myself convicted by less than
two-thirds of the members present of an impeachable offense.

In vain may it be alleged in defense of this proceeding that the form of the resolution is
not that of an impeachment or of a judgment thereupon, that the punishment prescribed in the
Constitution does not follow its adoption, or that in this case no impeachment is to be expected
from the House of Representatives. It is because it did not assume the form of an impeachment
that it is the more palpably repugnant to the Constitution, for it is through that form only
that the President is judicially responsible to the Senate; and though neither removal from
office nor future disqualification ensues, yet it is not to be presumed that the framers of
the Constitution considered either or both of those results as constituting the whole of the
punishment they prescribed. The judgment of guilty by the highest tribunal in the Union, the
stigma it would inflict on the offender, his family, and fame, and the perpetual record on
the Journal, handing down to future generations the story of his disgrace, were doubtless regarded
by them as the bitterest portions, if not the very essence, of that punishment. So far, therefore,
as some of its most material parts are concerned, the passage, recording, and promulgation
of the resolution are an attempt to bring them on the President in a manner unauthorized by
the Constitution. To shield him and other officers who are liable to impeachment from consequences
so momentous, except when really merited by official delinquencies, the Constitution has most
carefully guarded the whole process of impeachment. A majority of the House of Representatives
must think the officer guilty before he can be charged. Two-thirds of the Senate must pronounce
him guilty or he is deemed to be innocent. Forty-six Senators appear by the Journal to have
been present when the vote on the resolution was taken. If after all the solemnities of an
impeachment thirty of those Senators had voted that the President was guilty, yet would he
have been acquitted; but by the mode of proceeding adopted in the present case a lasting record
of conviction has been entered up by the votes of twenty-six Senators without an impeachment
or trial, whilst the Constitution expressly declares that to the entry of such a judgment an
accusation by the House of Representatives, a trial by the Senate, and a concurrence of two-thirds
in the vote of guilty shall be indispensable prerequisites.

Whether or not an impeachment was to be expected from the House of Representatives was a point
on which the Senate had no constitutional right to speculate, and in respect to which, even
had it possessed the spirit of prophecy, its anticipations would have furnished no just ground
for this procedure. Admitting that there was reason to believe that a violation of the Constitution
and laws had been actually committed by the President, still it was the duty of the Senate,
as his sole constitutional judges, to wait for an impeachment until the other House should
think proper to prefer it. The members of the Senate could have no right to infer that no impeachment
was intended. On the contrary, every legal and rational presumption on their part ought to
have been that if there was good reason to believe him guilty of an impeachable offense the
House of Representatives would perform its constitutional duty by arraigning the offender before
the justice of his country. The contrary presumption would involve an implication derogatory
to the integrity and honor of the representatives of the people. But suppose the suspicion
thus implied were actually entertained and for good cause, how can it justify the assumption
by the Senate of powers not conferred by the Constitution?

It is only necessary to look at the condition in which the Senate and the President have been
placed by this proceeding to perceive its utter incompatibility with the provisions and the
spirit of the Constitution and with the plainest dictates of humanity and justice.

If the House of Representatives shall be of opinion that there is just ground for the censure
pronounced upon the President, then will it be the solemn duty of that House to prefer the
proper accusation and to cause him to be brought to trial by the constitutional tribunal. But
in what condition would he find that tribunal? A majority of its members have already considered
the case, and have not only formed but expressed a deliberate judgment upon its merits. It
is the policy of our benign systems of jurisprudence to secure in all criminal proceedings,
and even in the most trivial litigations, a fair, unprejudiced, and impartial trial, and surely
it can not be less important that such a trial should be secured to the highest officer of
the Government.

The Constitution makes the House of Representatives the exclusive judges, in the first instance,
of the question whether the President has committed an impeachable offense. A majority of the
Senate, whose interference with this preliminary question has for the best of all reasons been
studiously excluded, anticipate the action of the House of Representatives, assume not only
the function which belongs exclusively to that body, but convert themselves into accusers,
witnesses, counsel, and judges, and prejudge the whole case, thus presenting the appalling
spectacle in a free State of judges going through a labored preparation for an impartial hearing
and decision by a previous ex parte investigation and sentence against the supposed offender.

There is no more settled axiom in that Government whence we derived the model of this part
of our Constitution than that "the lords can not impeach any to themselves, nor join in the
accusation, because they are judges." Independently of the general reasons on which this rule
is founded, its propriety and importance are greatly increased by the nature of the impeaching
power. The power of arraigning the high officers of government before a tribunal whose sentence
may expel them from their seats and brand them as infamous is eminently a popular remedy--a
remedy designed to be employed for the protection of private right and public liberty against
the abuses of injustice and the encroachments of arbitrary power. But the framers of the Constitution
were also undoubtedly aware that this formidable instrument had been and might be abused, and
that from its very nature an impeachment for high crimes and misdemeanors, whatever might be
its result, would in most cases be accompanied by so much of dishonor and reproach, solicitude
and suffering, as to make the power of preferring it one of the highest solemnity and importance.
It was due to both these considerations that the impeaching power should be lodged in the hands
of those who from the mode of their election and the tenure of their offices would most accurately
express the popular will and at the same time be most directly and speedily amenable to the
people. The theory of these wise and benignant intentions is in the present case effectually
defeated by the proceedings of the Senate. The members of that body represent not the people,
but the States; and though they are undoubtedly responsible to the States, yet from their extended
term of service the effect of that responsibility during the whole period of that term must
very much depend upon their own impressions of its obligatory force. When a body thus constituted
expresses beforehand its opinion in a particular case, and thus indirectly invites a prosecution,
it not only assumes a power intended for wise reasons to be confined to others, but it shields
the latter from that exclusive and personal responsibility under which it was intended to be
exercised, and reverses the whole scheme of this part of the Constitution.

Such would be some of the objections to this procedure, even if it were admitted that there
is just ground for imputing to the President the offenses charged in the resolution. But if,
on the other hand, the House of Representatives shall be of opinion that there is no reason
for charging them upon him, and shall therefore deem it improper to prefer an impeachment,
then will the violation of privilege as it respects that House, of justice as it regards the
President, and of the Constitution as it relates to both be only the more conspicuous and impressive.

The constitutional mode of procedure on an impeachment has not only been wholly disregarded,
but some of the first principles of natural right and enlightened jurisprudence have been violated
in the very form of the resolution. It carefully abstains from averring in which of "the late
proceedings in relation to the public revenue the President has assumed upon himself authority
and power not conferred by the Constitution and laws," It carefully abstains from specifying
what laws or what parts of the Constitution have been violated. Why was not the certainty of
the offense--"the nature and cause of the accusation"--set out in the manner required in the
Constitution before even the humblest individual, for the smallest crime, can be exposed to
condemnation? Such a specification was due to the accused that he might direct his defense
to the real points of attack, to the people that they might clearly understand in what particulars
their institutions had been violated, and to the truth and certainty of our public annals.
As the record now stands, whilst the resolution plainly charges upon the President at least
one act of usurpation in "the late Executive proceedings in relation to the public revenue,"
and is so framed that those Senators who believed that one such act, and only one, had been
committed could assent to it, its language is yet broad enough to include several such acts,
and so it may have been regarded by some of those who voted for it. But though the accusation
is thus comprehensive in the censures it implies, there is no such certainty of time, place,
or circumstance as to exhibit the particular conclusion of fact or law which induced any one
Senator to vote for it; and it may well have happened that whilst one Senator believed that
some particular act embraced in the resolution was an arbitrary and unconstitutional assumption
of power, others of the majority may have deemed that very act both constitutional and expedient,
or, if not expedient, yet still within the pale of the Constitution; and thus a majority of
the Senators may have been enabled to concur in a vague and undefined accusation that the President,
in the course of "the late Executive proceedings in relation to the public revenue," had violated
the Constitution and laws, whilst if a separate vote had been taken in respect to each particular
act included within the general terms the accusers of the President might on any such vote
have been found in the minority.

Still further to exemplify this feature of the proceeding, it is important to be remarked that
the resolution as originally offered to the Senate specified with adequate precision certain
acts of the President which it denounced as a violation of the Constitution and laws, and that
it was not until the very close of the debate, and when perhaps it was apprehended that a majority
might not sustain the specific accusation contained in it, that the resolution was so modified
as to assume its present form. A more striking illustration of the soundness and necessity
of the rules which forbid vague and indefinite generalities and require a reasonable certainty
in all judicial allegations, and a more glaring instance of the violation of those rules, has
seldom been exhibited.

In this view of the resolution it must certainly be regarded not as a vindication of any particular
provision of the law or the Constitution, but simply as an official rebuke or condemnatory
sentence, too general and indefinite to be easily repelled, but yet sufficiently precise to
bring into discredit the conduct and motives of the Executive. But whatever it may have been
intended to accomplish, it is obvious that the vague, general, and abstract form of the resolution
is in perfect keeping with those other departures from first principles and settled improvements
in jurisprudence so properly the boast of free countries in modern times. And it is not too
much to say of the whole of these proceedings that if they shall be approved and sustained
by an intelligent people, then will that great contest with arbitrary power which had established
in statutes, in bills of rights, in sacred charters, and in constitutions of government the
right of every citizen to a notice before trial, to a hearing before conviction, and to an
impartial tribunal for deciding on the charge have been waged in vain.

If the resolution had been left in its original form it is not to be presumed that it could
ever have received the assent of a majority of the Senate, for the acts therein specified as
violations of the Constitution and laws were clearly within the limits of the Executive authority.
They are the "dismissing the late Secretary of the Treasury because he would not, contrary
to his sense of his own duty, remove the money of the United States in deposit with the Bank
of the United States and its branches in conformity with the President's opinion, and appointing
his successor to effect such removal, which has been done." But as no other specification has
been substituted, and as these were the "Executive proceedings in relation to the public revenue"
principally referred to in the course of the discussion, they will doubtless be generally regarded
as the acts intended to be denounced as "an assumption of authority and power not conferred
by the Constitution or laws, but in derogation of both." It is therefore due to the occasion
that a condensed summary of the views of the Executive in respect to them should be here exhibited.

By the Constitution "the executive power is vested in a President of the United States." Among
the duties imposed upon him, and which he is sworn to perform, is that of "taking care that
the laws be faithfully executed." Being thus made responsible for the entire action of the
executive department, it was but reasonable that the power of appointing, overseeing, and controlling
those who execute the laws--a power in its nature executive--should remain in his hands. It
is therefore not only his right, but the Constitution makes it his duty, to "nominate and,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint" all "officers of the United States
whose appointments are not in the Constitution otherwise provided for," with a proviso that
the appointment of inferior officers may be vested in the President alone, in the courts of
justice, or in the heads of Departments.

The executive power vested in the Senate is neither that of "nominating" nor "appointing."
It is merely a check upon the Executive power of appointment. If individuals are proposed for
appointment by the President by them deemed incompetent or unworthy, they may withhold their
consent and the appointment can not be made. They check the action of the Executive, but can
not in relation to those very subjects act themselves nor direct him. Selections are still
made by the President, and the negative given to the Senate, without diminishing his responsibility,
furnishes an additional guaranty to the country that the subordinate executive as well as the
judicial offices shall be filled with worthy and competent men.

The whole executive power being vested in the President, who is responsible for its exercise,
it is a necessary consequence that he should have a right to employ agents of his own choice
to aid him in the performance of his duties, and to discharge them when he is no longer willing
to be responsible for their acts. In strict accordance with this principle, the power of removal,
which, like that of appointment, is an original executive power, is left unchecked by the Constitution
in relation to all executive officers, for whose conduct the President is responsible, while
it is taken from him in relation to judicial officers, for whose acts he is not responsible.
In the Government from which many of the fundamental principles of our system are derived the
head of the executive department originally had power to appoint and remove at will all officers,
executive and judicial. It was to take the judges out of this general power of removal, and
thus make them independent of the Executive, that the tenure of their offices was changed to
good behavior. Nor is it conceivable why they are placed in our Constitution upon a tenure
different from that of all other officers appointed by the Executive unless it be for the same
purpose.

But if there were any just ground for doubt on the face of the Constitution whether all executive
officers are removable at the will of the President, it is obviated by the cotemporaneous construction
of the instrument and the uniform practice under it.

The power of removal was a topic of solemn debate in the Congress of 1789 while organizing
the administrative departments of the Government, and it was finally decided that the President
derived from the Constitution the power of removal so far as it regards that department for
whose acts he is responsible. Although the debate covered the whole ground, embracing the Treasury
as well as all the other Executive Departments, it arose on a motion to strike out of the bill
to establish a Department of Foreign Affairs, since called the Department of State, a clause
declaring the Secretary "to be removable from office by the President of the United States."
After that motion had been decided in the negative it was perceived that these words did not
convey the sense of the House of Representatives in relation to the true source of the power
of removal. This change having been made for the express purpose of declaring the sense of
Congress that the President derived the power of removal from the Constitution, the act as
it passed has always been considered as a full expression of the sense of the legislature on
this important part of the American Constitution.

Here, then, we have the concurrent authority of President Washington, of the Senate, and the
House of Representatives, numbers of whom had taken an active part in the convention which
framed the Constitution and in the State conventions which adopted it, that the President derived
an unqualified power of removal from that instrument itself, which is "beyond the reach of
legislative authority." Upon this principle the Government has now been steadily administered
for about forty-five years, during which there have been numerous removals made by the President
or by his direction, embracing every grade of executive officers from the heads of Departments
to the messengers of bureaus.

The Treasury Department in the discussions of 1789 was considered on the same footing as the
other Executive Departments, and in the act establishing it were incorporated the precise words
indicative of the sense of Congress that the President derives his power to remove the Secretary
from the Constitution, which appear in the act establishing the Department of Foreign Affairs.
An Assistant Secretary of the Treasury was created, and it was provided that he should take
charge of the books and papers of the Department "whenever the Secretary shall be removed from
office by the President of the United States." The Secretary of the Treasury being appointed
by the President, and being considered as constitutionally removable by him, it appears never
to have occurred to anyone in the Congress of 1789, or since until very recently, that he was
other than an executive officer, the mere instrument of the Chief Magistrate in the execution
of the laws, subject, like all other heads of Departments, to his supervision and control.
No such idea as an officer of the Congress can be found in the Constitution or appears to have
suggested itself to those who organized the Government. There are officers of each House the
appointment of which is authorized by the Constitution, but all officers referred to in that
instrument as coming within the appointing power of the President, whether established thereby
or created by law, are "officers of the United States." No joint power of appointment is given
to the two Houses of Congress, nor is there any accountability to them as one body; but as
soon as any office is created by law, of whatever name or character, the appointment of the
person or persons to fill it devolves by the Constitution upon the President, with the advice
and consent of the Senate, unless it be an inferior office, and the appointment be vested by
the law itself "in the President alone, in the courts of law, or in the heads of Departments."

But at the time of the organization of the Treasury Department an incident occurred which distinctly
evinces the unanimous concurrence of the First Congress in the principle that the Treasury
Department is wholly executive in its character and responsibilities. A motion was made to
strike out the provision of the bill making it the duty of the Secretary "to digest and report
plans for the improvement and management of the revenue and for the support of public credit,"
on the ground that it would give the executive department of the Government too much influence
and power in Congress. The motion was not opposed on the ground that the Secretary was the
officer of Congress and responsible to that body, which would have been conclusive if admitted,
but on other ground, which conceded his executive character throughout. The whole discussion
evinces an unanimous concurrence in the principle that the Secretary of the Treasury is wholly
an executive officer, and the struggle of the minority was to restrict his power as such. From
that time down to the present the Secretary of the Treasury, the Treasurer, Register, Comptrollers,
Auditors, and clerks who fill the offices of that Department have in the practice of the Government
been considered and treated as on the same footing with corresponding grades of officers in
all the other Executive Departments.

The custody of the public property, under such regulations as may be prescribed by legislative
authority, has always been considered an appropriate function of the executive department in
this and all other Governments. In accordance with this principle, every species of property
belonging to the United States (excepting that which is in the use of the several coordinate
departments of the Government as means to aid them in performing their appropriate functions)
is in charge of officers appointed by the President, whether it be lands, or buildings, or
merchandise, or provisions, or clothing, or arms and munitions of war. The superintendents
and keepers of the whole are appointed by the President, responsible to him, and removable
at his will.

Public money is but a species of public property. It can not be raised by taxation or customs,
nor brought into the Treasury in any other way except by law; but whenever or howsoever obtained,
its custody always has been and always must be, unless the Constitution be changed, intrusted
to the executive department. No officer can be created by Congress for the purpose of taking
charge of it whose appointment would not by the Constitution at once devolve on the President
and who would not be responsible to him for the faithful performance of his duties. The legislative
power may undoubtedly bind him and the President by any laws they may think proper to enact;
they may prescribe in what place particular portions of the public property shall be kept and
for what reason it shall be removed, as they may direct that supplies for the Army or Navy
shall be kept in particular stores, and it will be the duty of the President to see that the
law is faithfully executed; yet will the custody remain in the executive department of the
Government. Were the Congress to assume, with or without a legislative act, the power of appointing
officers, independently of the President, to take the charge and custody of the public property
contained in the military and naval arsenals, magazines, and storehouses, it is believed that
such an act would be regarded by all as a palpable usurpation of executive power, subversive
of the form as well as the fundamental principles of our Government. But where is the difference
in principle whether the public property be in the form of arms, munitions of war, and supplies
or in gold and silver or bank notes? None can be perceived; none is believed to exist. Congress
can not, therefore, take out of the hands of the executive department the custody of the public
property or money without an assumption of executive power and a subversion of the first principles
of the Constitution.

The Congress of the United States have never passed an act imperatively directing that the
public moneys shall be kept in any particular place or places. From the origin of the Government
to the year 1816 the statute book was wholly silent on the subject. In 1789 a Treasurer was
created, subordinate to the Secretary of the Treasury, and through him to the President. He
was required to give bond safely to keep and faithfully to disburse the public moneys, without
any direction as to the manner or places in which they should be kept. By reference to the
practice of the Government it is found that from its first organization the Secretary of the
Treasury, acting under the supervision of the President, designated the places in which the
public moneys should be kept, and especially directed all transfers from place to place. This
practice was continued, with the silent acquiescence of Congress, from 1789 down to 1816, and
although many banks were selected and discharged, and although a portion of the moneys were
first placed in the State banks, and then in the former Bank of the United States, and upon
the dissolution of that were again transferred to the State banks, no legislation was thought
necessary by Congress, and all the operations were originated and perfected by Executive authority.
The Secretary of the Treasury, responsible to the President, and with his approbation, made
contracts and arrangements in relation to the whole subject-matter, which was thus entirely
committed to the direction of the President under his responsibilities to the American people
and to those who were authorized to impeach and punish him for any breach of this important trust.

The act of 1816 establishing the Bank of the United States directed the deposits of public
money to be made in that bank and its branches in places in which the said bank and branches
thereof may be established, "unless the Secretary of the Treasury should otherwise order and
direct," in which event he was required to give his reasons to Congress. This was but a continuation
of his preexisting power as the head of an Executive Department to direct where the deposits
should be made, with the superadded obligation of giving his reasons to Congress for making
them elsewhere than in the Bank of the United States and its branches. It is not to be considered
that this provision in any degree altered the relation between the Secretary of the Treasury
and the President as the responsible head of the executive department, or released the latter
from his constitutional obligation to "take care that the laws be faithfully executed." On
the contrary, it increased his responsibilities by adding another to the long list of laws
which it was his duty to carry into effect.

It would be an extraordinary result if because the person charged by law with a public duty
is one of his Secretaries it were less the duty of the President to see that law faithfully
executed than other laws enjoining duties upon subordinate officers or private citizens. If
there be any difference, it would seem that the obligation is the stronger in relation to the
former, because the neglect is in his presence and the remedy at hand.

It can not be doubted that it was the legal duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to order
and direct the deposits of the public money to be made elsewhere than in the Bank of the United
States whenever sufficient reasons existed for making the change. If in such a case he neglected
or refused to act, he would neglect or refuse to execute the law. What would be the sworn duty
of the President? Could he say that the Constitution did not bind him to see the law faithfully
executed because it was one of his Secretaries and not himself upon whom the service was specially
imposed? Might he not be asked whether there was any such limitation to his obligations prescribed
in the Constitution? Whether he is not equally bound to take care that the laws be faithfully
executed, whether they impose duties on the highest officer of State or the lowest subordinate
in any of the Departments? Might he not be told that it was for the sole purpose of causing
all executive officers, from the highest to the lowest, faithfully to perform the services
required of them by law that the people of the United States have made him their Chief Magistrate
and the Constitution has clothed him with the entire executive power of this Government? The
principles implied in these questions appear too plain to need elucidation.

But here also we have a cotemporaneous construction of the act which shows that it was not
understood as in any way changing the relations between the President and Secretary of the
Treasury, or as placing the latter out of Executive control even in relation to the deposits
of the public money. Nor on that point are we left to any equivocal testimony. The documents
of the Treasury Department show that the Secretary of the Treasury did apply to the President
and obtained his approbation and sanction to the original transfer of the public deposits to
the present Bank of the United States, and did carry the measure into effect in obedience to
his decision. They also show that transfers of the public deposits from the branches of the
Bank of the United States to State banks at Chillicothe, Cincinnati, and Louisville, in 1819,
were made with the approbation of the President and by his authority. They show that upon all
important questions appertaining to his Department, whether they related to the public deposits
or other matters, it was the constant practice of the Secretary of the Treasury to obtain for
his acts the approval and sanction of the President. These acts and the principles on which
they were founded were known to all the departments of the Government, to Congress and the
country, and until very recently appear never to have been called in question.

Thus was it settled by the Constitution, the laws, and the whole practice of the Government
that the entire executive power is vested in the President of the United States; that as incident
to that power the right of appointing and removing those officers who are to aid him in the
execution of the laws, with such restrictions only as the Constitution prescribes, is vested
in the President; that the Secretary of the Treasury is one of those officers; that the custody
of the public property and money is an Executive function which, in relation to the money,
has always been exercised through the Secretary of the Treasury and his subordinates; that
in the performance of these duties he is subject to the supervision and control of the President,
and in all important measures having relation to them consults the Chief Magistrate and obtains
his approval and sanction; that the law establishing the bank did not, as it could not, change
the relation between the President and the Secretary--did not release the former from his obligation
to see the law faithfully executed nor the latter from the President's supervision and control;
that afterwards and before the Secretary did in fact consult and obtain the sanction of the
President to transfers and removals of the public deposits, and that all departments of the
Government, and the nation itself, approved or acquiesced in these acts and principles as in
strict conformity with our Constitution and laws.

During the last year the approaching termination, according to the provisions of its charter
and the solemn decision of the American people, of the Bank of the United States made it expedient,
and its exposed abuses and corruptions made it, in my opinion, the duty of the Secretary of
the Treasury, to place the moneys of the United States in other depositories. The Secretary
did not concur in that opinion, and declined giving the necessary order and direction. So glaring
were the abuses and corruptions of the bank, so evident its fixed purpose to persevere in them,
and so palpable its design by its money and power to control the Government and change its
character, that I deemed it the imperative duty of the Executive authority, by the exertion
of every power confided to it by the Constitution and laws, to check its career and lessen
its ability to do mischief, even in the painful alternative of dismissing the head of one of
the Departments. At the time the removal was made other causes sufficient to justify it existed,
but if they had not the Secretary would have been dismissed for this cause only.

His place I supplied by one whose opinions were well known to me, and whose frank expression
of them in another situation and generous sacrifices of interest and feeling when unexpectedly
called to the station he now occupies ought forever to have shielded his motives from Suspicion
and his character from reproach. In accordance with the views long before expressed by him
he proceeded, with my sanction, to make arrangements for depositing the moneys of the United
States in other safe institutions.

The resolution of the Senate as originally framed and as passed, if it refers to these acts,
presupposes a right in that body to interfere with this exercise of Executive power. If the
principle be once admitted, it is not difficult to perceive where it may end. If by a mere
denunciation like this resolution the President should ever be induced to act in a matter of
official duty contrary to the honest convictions of his own mind in compliance with the wishes
of the Senate, the constitutional independence of the executive department would be as effectually
destroyed and its power as effectually transferred to the Senate as if that end had been accomplished
by an amendment of the Constitution. But if the Senate have a right to interfere with the Executive
powers, they have also the right to make that interference effective, and if the assertion
of the power implied in the resolution be silently acquiesced in we may reasonably apprehend
that it will be followed at some future day by an attempt at actual enforcement. The Senate
may refuse, except on the condition that he will surrender his opinions to theirs and obey
their will, to perform their own constitutional functions, to pass the necessary laws, to sanction
appropriations proposed by the House of Representatives, and to confirm proper nominations
made by the President. It has already been maintained (and it is not conceivable that the resolution
of the Senate can be based on any other principle) that the Secretary of the Treasury is the
officer of Congress and independent of the President; that the President has no right to control
him, and consequently none to remove him. With the same propriety and on similar grounds may
the Secretary of State, the Secretaries of War and the Navy, and the Postmaster-General each
in succession be declared independent of the President, the subordinates of Congress, and removable
only with the concurrence of the Senate. Followed to its consequences, this principle will
be found effectually to destroy one coordinate department of the Government, to concentrate
in the hands of the Senate the whole executive power, and to leave the President as powerless
as he would be useless--the shadow of authority after the substance had departed.

The time and the occasion which have called forth the resolution of the Senate seem to impose
upon me an additional obligation not to pass it over in silence. Nearly forty-five years had
the President exercised, without a question as to his rightful authority, those powers for
the recent assumption of which he is now denounced. The vicissitudes of peace and war had attended
our Government; violent parties, watchful to take advantage of any seeming usurpation on the
part of the Executive, had distracted our councils; frequent removals, or forced resignations
in every sense tantamount to removals, had been made of the Secretary and other officers of
the Treasury, and yet in no one instance is it known that any man, whether patriot or partisan,
had raised his voice against it as a violation of the Constitution. The expediency and justice
of such changes in reference to public officers of all grades have frequently been the topic
of discussion, but the constitutional right of the President to appoint, control, and remove
the head of the Treasury as well as all other Departments seems to have been universally conceded.
And what is the occasion upon which other principles have been first officially asserted? The
Bank of the United States, a great moneyed monopoly, had attempted to obtain a renewal of its
charter by controlling the elections of the people and the action of the Government. The use
of its corporate funds and power in that attempt was fully disclosed, and it was made known
to the President that the corporation was putting in train the same course of measures, with
the view of making another vigorous effort, through an interference in the elections of the
people, to control public opinion and force the Government to yield to its demands. This, with
its corruption of the press, its violation of its charter, its exclusion of the Government
directors from its proceedings, its neglect of duty and arrogant pretensions, made it, in the
opinion of the President, incompatible with the public interest and the safety of our institutions
that it should be longer employed as the fiscal agent of the Treasury. A Secretary of the Treasury
appointed in the recess of the Senate, who had not been confirmed by that body, and whom the
President might or might not at his pleasure nominate to them, refused to do what his superior
in the executive department considered the most imperative of his duties, and became in fact,
however innocent his motives, the protector of the bank. And on this occasion it is discovered
for the first time that those who framed the Constitution misunderstood it; that the First
Congress and all its successors have been under a delusion; that the practice of near forty-five
years is but a continued usurpation; that the Secretary of the Treasury is not responsible
to the President, and that to remove him is a violation of the Constitution and laws for which
the President deserves to stand forever dishonored on the journals of the Senate.

There are also some other circumstances connected with the discussion and passage of the resolution
to which I feel it to be not only my right, but my duty, to refer. It appears by the Journal
of the Senate that among the twenty-six Senators who voted for the resolution on its final
passage, and who had supported it in debate in its original form, were one of the Senators
from the State of Maine, the two Senators from New Jersey, and one of the Senators from Ohio.
It also appears by the same Journal and by the files of the Senate that the legislatures of
these States had severally expressed their opinions in respect to the Executive proceedings
drawn in question before the Senate.

The two branches of the legislature of the State of Maine on the 25th of January, 1834, passed
a preamble and series of resolutions in the following words:

  Whereas at an early period after the election of Andrew Jackson to the
  Presidency, in accordance with the sentiments which he had uniformly
  expressed, the attention of Congress was called to the constitutionality
  and expediency of the renewal of the charter of the United States Bank;
  and

  Whereas the bank has transcended its chartered limits in the management
  of its business transactions, and has abandoned the object of its
  creation by engaging in political controversies, by wielding its power
  and influence to embarrass the Administration of the General Government,
  and by bringing insolvency and distress upon the commercial community;
  and

  Whereas the public security from such an institution consists less in
  its present pecuniary capacity to discharge its liabilities than in the
  fidelity with which the trusts reposed in it have been executed; and

  Whereas the abuse and misapplication of the powers conferred have
  destroyed the confidence of the public in the officers of the bank and
  demonstrated that such powers endanger the stability of republican
  institutions: Therefore,

  Resolved, That in the removal of the public deposits from the Bank
  of the United States, as well as in the manner of their removal, we
  recognize in the Administration an adherence to constitutional rights
  and the performance of a public duty.

  Resolved, That this legislature entertain the same opinion as
  heretofore expressed by preceding legislatures of this State, that the
  Bank of the United States ought not to be rechartered.

  Resolved, That the Senators of this State in the Congress of the
  United States be instructed and the Representatives be requested to
  oppose the restoration of the deposits and the renewal of the charter
  of the United States Bank.

On the 11th of January, 1834, the house of assembly and council composing the legislature of
the State of New Jersey passed a preamble and a series of resolutions in the following words:

  Whereas the present crisis in our public affairs calls for a decided
  expression of the voice of the people of this State; and

  Whereas we consider it the undoubted right of the legislatures of the
  several States to instruct those who represent their interests in the
  councils of the nation in all matters which intimately concern the
  public weal and may affect the happiness or well-being of the people:
  Therefore,

  1. Be it resolved by the council and general assembly of this State,
  That while we acknowledge with feelings of devout gratitude our
  obligations to the Great Ruler of Nations for His mercies to us as a
  people that we have been preserved alike from foreign war, from the
  evils of internal commotions, and the machinations of designing and
  ambitious men who would prostrate the fair fabric of our Union, that
  we ought nevertheless to humble ourselves in His presence and implore
  His aid for the perpetuation of our republican institutions and for a
  continuance of that unexampled prosperity which our country has hitherto
  enjoyed.

  2. Resolved, That we have undiminished confidence in the integrity and
  firmness of the venerable patriot who now holds the distinguished post
  of Chief Magistrate of this nation, and whose purity of purpose and
  elevated motives have so often received the unqualified approbation of
  a large majority of his fellow-citizens.

  3. Resolved, That we view with agitation and alarm the existence of a
  great moneyed incorporation which threatens to embarrass the operations
  of the Government and by means of its unbounded influence upon the
  currency of the country to scatter distress and ruin throughout the
  community, and that we therefore solemnly believe the present Bank of
  the United States ought not to be rechartered.

  4. Resolved, That our Senators in Congress be instructed and our
  members of the House of Representatives be requested to sustain, by
  their votes and influence, the course adopted by the Secretary of the
  Treasury, Mr. Taney, in relation to the Bank of the United States and
  the deposits of the Government moneys, believing as we do the course
  of the Secretary to have been constitutional, and that the public good
  required its adoption.

  5. Resolved, That the governor be requested to forward a copy of the
  above resolutions to each of our Senators and Representatives from this
  State to the Congress of the United States.

On the 21st day of February last the legislature of the same State reiterated the opinions
and instructions before given by joint resolutions in the following words:

  Resolved by the council and general assembly of the State of New
  Jersey, That they do adhere to the resolutions passed by them on the
  11th day of January last, relative to the President of the United
  States, the Bank of the United States, and the course of Mr. Taney
  in removing the Government deposits.

  Resolved, That the legislature of New Jersey have not seen any
  reason to depart from such resolutions since the passage thereof,
  and it is their wish that they should receive from our Senators and
  Representatives of this State in the Congress of the United States that
  attention and obedience which are due to the opinion of a sovereign
  State openly expressed in its legislative capacity.

On the 2d of January, 1834, the senate and house of representatives composing the legislature
of Ohio passed a preamble and resolutions in the following words:

  Whereas there is reason to believe that the Bank of the United States
  will attempt to obtain a renewal of its charter at the present session
  of Congress; and

  Whereas it is abundantly evident that said bank has exercised powers
  derogatory to the spirit of our free institutions and dangerous to the
  liberties of these United States; and

  Whereas there is just reason to doubt the constitutional power of
  Congress to grant acts of incorporation for banking purposes out of
  the District of Columbia; and

  Whereas we believe the proper disposal of the public lands to be of the
  utmost importance to the people of these United States, and that honor
  and good faith require their equitable distribution: Therefore,

  Resolved by the general assembly of the State of Ohio, That we
  consider the removal of the public deposits from the Bank of the United
  States as required by the best interests of our country, and that a
  proper sense of public duty imperiously demanded that that institution
  should be no longer used as a depository of the public funds.

  Resolved also, That we view with decided disapprobation the renewed
  attempts in Congress to secure the passage of the bill providing for the
  disposal of the public domain upon the principles proposed by Mr. Clay,
  inasmuch as we believe that such a law would be unequal in its
  operations and unjust in its results.

  Resolved also, That we heartily approve of the principles set forth
  in the late veto message upon that subject; and

  Resolved, That our Senators in Congress be instructed and our
  Representatives requested to use their influence to prevent the
  rechartering of the Bank of the United States, to sustain the
  Administration in its removal of the public deposits, and to oppose the
  passage of a land bill containing the principles adopted in the act upon
  that subject passed at the last session of Congress.

  Resolved, That the governor be requested to transmit copies of the
  foregoing preamble and resolutions to each of our Senators and
  Representatives.

It is thus seen that four Senators have declared by their votes that the President, in the
late Executive proceedings in relation to the revenue, had been guilty of the impeachable offense
of "assuming upon himself authority and power not conferred by the Constitution and laws, but
in derogation of both," whilst the legislatures of their respective States had deliberately
approved those very proceedings as consistent with the Constitution and demanded by the public
good. If these four votes had been given in accordance with the sentiments of the legislatures,
as above expressed, there would have been but twenty-two votes out of forty-six for censuring
the President, and the unprecedented record of his conviction could not have been placed upon
the Journal of the Senate.

In thus referring to the resolutions and instructions of the State legislatures I disclaim
and repudiate all authority or design to interfere with the responsibility due from members
of the Senate to their own consciences, their constituents, and their country. The facts now
stated belong to the history of these proceedings, and are important to the just development
of the principles and interests involved in them as well as to the proper vindication of the
executive department, and with that view, and that view only, are they here made the topic
of remark.

The dangerous tendency of the doctrine which denies to the President the power of supervising,
directing, and controlling the Secretary of the Treasury in like manner with the other executive
officers would soon be manifest in practice were the doctrine to be established. The President
is the direct representative of the American people, but the Secretaries are not. If the Secretary
of the Treasury be independent of the President in the execution of the laws, then is there
no direct responsibility to the people in that important branch of this Government to which
is committed the care of the national finances. And it is in the power of the Bank of the United
States, or any other corporation, body of men, or individuals, if a Secretary shall be found
to accord with them in opinion or can be induced in practice to promote their views, to control
through him the whole action of the Government (so far as it is exercised by his Department)
in defiance of the Chief Magistrate elected by the people and responsible to them.

But the evil tendency of the particular doctrine adverted to, though sufficiently serious,
would be as nothing in comparison with the pernicious consequences which would inevitably flow
from the approbation and allowance by the people and the practice by the Senate of the unconstitutional
power of arraigning and censuring the official conduct of the Executive in the manner recently
pursued. Such proceedings are eminently calculated to unsettle the foundations of the Government,
to disturb the harmonious action of its different departments, and to break down the checks
and balances by which the wisdom of its framers sought to insure its stability and usefulness.

The honest differences of opinion which occasionally exist between the Senate and the President
in regard to matters in which both are obliged to participate are sufficiently embarrassing;
but if the course recently adopted by the Senate shall hereafter be frequently pursued, it
is not only obvious that the harmony of the relations between the President and the Senate
will be destroyed, but that other and graver effects will ultimately ensue. If the censures
of the Senate be submitted to by the President, the confidence of the people in his ability
and virtue and the character and usefulness of his Administration will soon be at an end, and
the real power of the Government will fall into the hands of a body holding their offices for
long terms, not elected by the people and not to them directly responsible. If, on the other
hand, the illegal censures of the Senate should be resisted by the President, collisions and
angry controversies might ensue, discreditable in their progress and in the end compelling
the people to adopt the conclusion either that their Chief Magistrate was unworthy of their
respect or that the Senate was chargeable with calumny and injustice. Either of these results
would impair public confidence in the perfection of the system and lead to serious alterations
of its framework or to the practical abandonment of some of its provisions.

The influence of such proceedings on the other departments of the Government, and more especially
on the States, could not fail to be extensively pernicious. When the judges in the last resort
of official misconduct themselves overleap the bounds of their authority as prescribed by the
Constitution, what general disregard of its provisions might not their example be expected
to produce? And who does not perceive that such contempt of the Federal Constitution by one
of its most important departments would hold out the strongest temptations to resistance on
the part of the State sovereignties whenever they shall suppose their just rights to have been
invaded? Thus all the independent departments of the Government, and the States which compose
our confederated Union, instead of attending to their appropriate duties and leaving those
who may offend to be reclaimed or punished in the manner pointed out in the Constitution, would
fall to mutual crimination and recrimination and give to the people confusion and anarchy instead
of order and law, until at length some form of aristocratic power would be established on the
ruins of the Constitution or the States be broken into separate communities.

Far be it from me to charge or to insinuate that the present Senate of the United States intend
in the most distant way to encourage such a result. It is not of their motives or designs,
but only of the tendency of their acts, that it is my duty to speak. It is, if possible, to
make Senators themselves sensible of the danger which lurks under the precedent set in their
resolution, and at any rate to perform my duty as the responsible head of one of the coequal
departments of the Government, that I have been compelled to point out the consequences to
which the discussion and passage of the resolution may lead if the tendency of the measure
be not checked in its inception. It is due to the high trust with which I have been charged,
to those who may be called to succeed me in it, to the representatives of the people whose
constitutional prerogative has been unlawfully assumed, to the people and to the States, and
to the Constitution they have established that I should not permit its provisions to be broken
down by such an attack on the executive department without at least some effort "to preserve,
protect, and defend" them. With this view, and for the reasons which have been stated, I do
hereby solemnly protest against the aforementioned proceedings of the Senate as unauthorized
by the Constitution, contrary to its spirit and to several of its express provisions, subversive
of that distribution of the powers of government which it has ordained and established, destructive
of the checks and safeguards by which those powers were intended on the one hand to be controlled
and on the other to be protected, and calculated by their immediate and collateral effects,
by their character and tendency, to concentrate in the hands of a body not directly amenable
to the people a degree of influence and power dangerous to their liberties and fatal to the
Constitution of their choice.

The resolution of the Senate contains an imputation upon my private as well as upon my public
character, and as it must stand forever on their journals, I can not close this substitute
for that defense which I have not been allowed to present in the ordinary form without remarking
that I have lived in vain if it be necessary to enter into a formal vindication of my character
and purposes from such an imputation. In vain do I bear upon my person enduring memorials of
that contest in which American liberty was purchased; in vain have I since periled property,
fame, and life in defense of the rights and privileges so dearly bought; in vain am I now,
without a personal aspiration or the hope of individual advantage, encountering responsibilities
and dangers from which by mere inactivity in relation to a single point I might have been exempt,
if any serious doubts can be entertained as to the purity of my purposes and motives. If I
had been ambitious, I should have sought an alliance with that powerful institution which even
now aspires to no divided empire. If I had been venal, I should have sold myself to its designs.
Had I preferred personal comfort and official ease to the performance of my arduous duty, I
should have ceased to molest it. In the history of conquerors and usurpers, never in the fire
of youth nor in the vigor of manhood could I find an attraction to lure me from the path of
duty, and now I shall scarcely find an inducement to commence their career of ambition when
gray hairs and a decaying frame, instead of inviting to toil and battle, call me to the contemplation
of other worlds, where conquerors cease to be honored and usurpers expiate their crimes. The
only ambition I can feel is to acquit myself to Him to whom I must soon render an account of
my stewardship, to serve my fellow-men, and live respected and honored in the history of my
country. If the Almighty Being who has hitherto sustained and protected me will but vouchsafe
to make my feeble powers instrumental to such a result, I shall anticipate with pleasure the
place to be assigned me in the history of my country, and die contented with the belief that
I have contributed in some small degree to increase the value and prolong the duration of American
liberty.

To the end that the resolution of the Senate may not be hereafter drawn into precedent with
the authority of silent acquiescence on the part of the executive department, and to the end
also that my motives and views in the Executive proceedings denounced in that resolution may
be known to my fellow-citizens, to the world, and to all posterity, I respectfully request
that this message and protest may be entered at length on the journals of the Senate.

ANDREW JACKSON.

APRIL 21, 1834.

To the Senate of the United States:

Having reason to believe that certain passages contained in my message and protest transmitted
to the Senate on the 17th [15th] instant may be misunderstood, I think it proper to state that
it was not my intention to deny in the said message the power and right of the legislative
department to provide by law for the custody, safe-keeping, and disposition of the public money
and property of the United States.

Although I am well satisfied that such a construction is not warranted by anything contained
in that message, yet aware from experience that detached passages of an argumentative document,
when disconnected from their context and considered without reference to previous limitations
and the particular positions they were intended to refute or to establish, may be made to bear
a construction varying altogether from the sentiments really entertained and intended to be
expressed, and deeply solicitous that my views on this point should not, either now or hereafter,
be misapprehended, I have deemed it due to the gravity of the subject, to the great interests
it involves, and to the Senate as well as to myself to embrace the earliest opportunity to
make this communication.

I admit without reserve, as I have before done, the constitutional power of the Legislature
to prescribe by law the place or places in which the public money or other property is to be
deposited, and to make such regulations concerning its custody, removal, or disposition as
they may think proper to enact. Nor do I claim for the Executive any right to the possession
or disposition of the public property or treasure or any authority to interfere with the same,
except when such possession, disposition, or authority is given to him by law. Nor do I claim
the right in any manner to supervise or interfere with the person intrusted with such property
or treasure, unless he be an officer whose appointment, under the Constitution and laws, is
devolved upon the President alone or in conjunction with the Senate, and for whose conduct
he is constitutionally responsible.

As the message and protest referred to may appear on the Journal of the Senate and remain among
the recorded documents of the nation, I am unwilling that opinions should be imputed to me,
even through misconstruction, which are not entertained, and more particularly am I solicitous
that I may not be supposed to claim for myself or my successors any power or authority not
clearly granted by the Constitution and laws to the President. I have therefore respectfully
to request that this communication may be considered a part of that message and that it may
be entered therewith on the journals of the Senate.

ANDREW JACKSON.

EXECUTIVE ORDERS.

HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,

ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,

Washington, June 21, 1834.

ORDER 46.

The Major-General Commanding the Army has received through the War Department the following
General Order from the President of the United States:

GENERAL ORDER.

WASHINGTON, June 21, 1834.

Information having been received of the death of General Lafayette, the President considers
it due to his own feelings as well as to the character and services of that lamented man to
announce the event to the Army and Navy.

Lafayette was a citizen of France, but he was the distinguished friend of the United States.
In early life he embarked in that contest which secured freedom and independence to our country.
His services and sacrifices constitute a part of our Revolutionary history, and his memory
will be second only to that of Washington in the hearts of the American people. In his own
country and in ours he was the zealous and uniform friend and advocate of rational liberty.
Consistent in his principles and conduct, he never during a long life committed an act which
exposed him to just accusation or which will expose his memory to reproach. Living at a period
of great excitement and of moral and political revolutions, engaged in many of the important
events which fixed the attention of the world, and invited to guide the destinies of France
at two of the most momentous eras of her history, his political integrity and personal disinterestedness
have not been called in question. Happy in such a life, he has been happy in his death. He
has been taken from the theater of action with faculties unimpaired, with a reputation unquestioned,
and an object of veneration wherever civilization and the rights of man have extended; and
mourning, as we may and must, his departure, let us rejoice that this associate of Washington
has gone, as we humbly hope, to rejoin his illustrious commander in the fullness of days and
of honor.

He came in his youth to defend our country. He came in the maturity of his age to witness her
growth in all the elements of prosperity, and while witnessing these he received those testimonials
of national gratitude which proved how strong was his hold upon the affections of the American
people.

One melancholy duty remains to be performed. The last major-general of the Revolutionary army
has died. Himself a young and humble participator in the struggles of that period, the President
feels called on as well by personal as public considerations to direct that appropriate honors
be paid to the memory of this distinguished patriot and soldier. He therefore orders that the
same honors be rendered upon this occasion at the different military and naval stations as
were observed upon the decease of Washington, the Father of his Country, and his contemporary
in arms.

In ordering this homage to be paid to the memory of one so eminent in the field, so wise in
council, so endeared in private life, and so well and favorably known to both hemispheres the
President feels assured that he is anticipating the sentiments not of the Army and Navy only,
but of the whole American people.

ANDREW JACKSON.

In obedience to the commands of the President, the following funeral honors will be paid at
the several stations of the Army:

At daybreak twenty-four guns will be fired in quick succession, and one gun at the interval
of every half hour thereafter till sunset.

The flags of the several stations will during the day be at half-mast. The officers of the
Army will wear crape on the left arm for the period of six months.

This order will be carried into effect under the direction of the commanding officer of each
post and station the day after its reception.

By command of Major-General Macomb, commanding in chief:

R. JONES,

Adjutant-General

GREEN HILL, October 12, 1834.

Hon. LEVI WOODBURY,

Secretary of the Treasury.

MY DEAR SIR: I inclose you two letters from two of our most respectable citizens. They are
good men and true. The letters relate to matters under your immediate charge, and when I come
on to Washington will see about them.

Marshall was our candidate for the legislature, and has no doubt lost his election through
the influence of the United States officers at that post, who are all of them opposed to us,
and if we lose Brown this winter from the Senate it will be owing mainly and chiefly to this.
The county of Carterett sends three members to the legislature, and is Jackson to the hub;
but Major Kirby, who commands at Fort Macon, has used his influence in conjunction with D.
Borden, who finds the troops with provisions, in favor of the opposition, and have beaten our
men by small majorities. The troops, it seems, were paid off in Virginia money, which is below
par in our State, and this just on the eve of the election, and hence you may see the turn
that was given to the matter. Dr. Hunt, who wishes to be appointed surgeon at Occracock, is
a fine man, and I should like for him to have it; but of these matters more when I see you.

You see our new bank has gone into operation. Suppose you open a correspondence [with] them
about the matter we have been talking about. It is all important that this matter should be
attended to. With sentiments of great respect, I am, dear sir, yours, etc.,

J. SPEIGHT.

[Indorsement.]

Let a strict inquiry be had into the conduct of the officers complained of, and particularly
why the paymaster has paid the troops in depreciated paper when he could as easily paid them
in specie. It is his duty in all cases so to do, as all the revenue is specie and all public
dues are payable in specie.

A.J.

SIXTH ANNUAL MESSAGE. A new bill was introduced on the 11th of June, but nothing important
was done in relation to it during the session. Such a measure ought not to be considered by
France as a menace.

2.

ANDREW JACKSON.

SPECIAL MESSAGES

WASHINGTON, December 4, 1834.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit to Congress a communication addressed to me by M. George Washington Lafayette, accompanying
a copy of the Declaration of Independence engraved on copper, which his illustrious father
bequeathed to Congress to be placed in their library as a last tribute of respect, patriotic
love, and affection for his adopted country.

I have a mournful satisfaction in transmitting this precious bequest of that great and good
man who through a long life, under many vicissitudes and in both hemispheres, sustained the
principles of civil liberty asserted in that memorable Declaration, and who from his youth
to the last moment of his life cherished for our beloved country the most generous attachment.

ANDREW JACKSON.

The bequest accompanies the message to the House of Representatives.

A.J.

PARIS, June 15, 1834.

SIR: A great misfortune has given me more than one solemn and important duty to fulfill, and
the ardent desire of accomplishing with fidelity my father's last will emboldens me to claim
the patronage of the President of the United States and his benevolent intervention when I
am obliged respectfully and mournfully to address the Senate and Representatives of a whole nation.

Will it be permitted to me, a faithful disciple of that American school whose principles are
so admirably exposed in that immortal Declaration, to hope that you, sir, would do me the honor
to communicate this letter to both Houses of Congress at the same time that in the name of
his afflicted family you would present to them my venerated father's gift?

In craving such an important favor, sir, the son of General Lafayette, the adopted grandson
of Washington, knows and shall never forget that he would become unworthy of it if he was ever
to cease to be a French and American patriot. With the utmost respect, I am, sir, your devoted
and obedient servant,

GEORGE W. LAFAYETTE.

WASHINGTON, December 10, 1834.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

The joint resolutions of Congress unanimously expressing their sensibility on the intelligence
of the death of General Lafayette were communicated, in compliance with their will, to George
Washington Lafayette and the other members of the family of that illustrious man. By their
request I now present the heartfelt acknowledgments of the surviving descendants of our beloved
friend for that highly valued proof of the sympathy of the United States.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 27, 1834.

GEORGE WASHINGTON LAFAYETTE AND THE OTHER MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY OF THE LATE GENERAL LAFAYETTE:

In compliance with the will of Congress, I transmit to you the joint resolutions of the two
Houses unanimously expressing the sensibility with which they received the intelligence of
the death of "General Lafayette, the friend of the United States, the friend of Washington,
and the friend of liberty;" and I also assure you of the condolence of this whole nation in
the irreparable bereavement which by that event you have sustained.

In complying with the request of Congress I can not omit the occasion of offering you my own
condolence in the great loss you have sustained, and of expressing my admiration of the eminent
virtues of the distinguished patriot whom it has pleased Providence to remove to his high reward.

I also pray you to be persuaded that your individual welfare and prosperity will always be
with me objects of that solicitude which the illustrious services of the great friend and benefactor
of my country are calculated to awaken.

ANDREW JACKSON,

President of the United States.

RESOLUTION manifesting the sensibility of the two Houses of Congress and of the nation on the
occasion of the decease of General Lafayette.

And be it further resolved, That the sacrifices and efforts of this illustrious person in the
cause of our country during her struggle for independence, and the affectionate interest which
he has at all times manifested for the success of her political institutions, claim from the
Government and people of the United States an expression of condolence for his loss, veneration
for his virtues, and gratitude for his services.

And be it further resolved, That the President of the United States be requested to address,
together with a copy of the above resolutions, a letter to George Washington Lafayette and
the other members of his family, assuring them of the condolence of this whole nation in their
irreparable bereavement.

And be it further resolved, That the members of the two Houses of Congress will wear a badge
of mourning for thirty days, and that it be recommended to the people of the United States
to wear a similar badge for the same period.

And be it further resolved, That the halls of the Houses be dressed in mourning for the residue
of the session.

And be it further resolved, That John Quincy Adams be requested to deliver an oration on the
life and character of General Lafayette before the two Houses of Congress at the next session.

JNO. BELL,

Speaker of the House of Representatives.

M. VAN BUREN,

Vice-President of the United States and President of the Senate.

Approved, June 26, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

LA GRANGE, October 21, 1834.

SIR: The resolution of Congress communicated to me by your honored favor of the 27th of June,
that glorious testimony of American national affection for my beloved and venerated father,
has been received by his family with the deepest sense of the most respectful and, give me
leave to say, filial gratitude.

And now, sir, that we experience the benefits of such a high and soothing sympathy, we find
ourselves called to the honor of addressing to the people and Congress of the United States
our heartfelt and dutiful thanks.

Sir, you were the friend of my father, and the kind letter which accompanied the precious message
seems to be for us a sufficient authorization to our claiming once more your honorable assistance
for the accomplishment of a duty dear to our hearts. We most fervently wish that the homage
of our everlasting devotion to a nation whose tears have deigned to mingle with ours should
be offered to both Houses of Congress. Transmitted by you, sir, that homage shall be rendered
acceptable, and we earnestly pray you, sir, to present it in our name. Our gratitude shall
be forever adequate to the obligation.

The resolution which so powerfully honors my father's memory shall be deposited as a most sacred
family property in that room of mourning where once his son and grandsons used to receive with
avidity from him lessons of patriotism and active love of liberty. There the daily contemplation
of it will more and more impress their minds with that encouraging conviction that the affection
and esteem of a free nation is the most desirable reward that can be obtained on earth.

With the utmost respect, sir, I have the honor to be, your devoted and obedient servant,

GEORGE W. LAFAYETTE.

WASHINGTON, December 12, 1834.

Accompanying this inquiry I also transmit a particular report from Mr. McLane, who was then
Secretary of the Treasury, stating all the facts relating to the subject which were within
the knowledge of the officers of the Department and such losses of records and papers as were
ascertained to have been sustained.

ANDREW JACKSON.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of the Senate, papers showing the terms on which
the united tribes of the Chippewas, Ottawas, and Potawatamies are willing to accede to the
amendments contained in the resolution of the Senate of the 22d of May last, ratifying conditionally
the treaty which had been concluded with them on the 26th day of September, 1833.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DECEMBER 15, 1834.

WASHINGTON, December 27, 1834.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 27, 1834.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

I transmit to the House a report from the Secretary of State, together with the papers relating
to the refusal of the French Government to make provision for the execution of the treaty between
the United States and France concluded on the 4th July, 1831, requested by their resolution
of the 24th instant.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, December 27, 1834.

It will be perceived that no authority was given to either of the chargés d'affaires who succeeded
Mr. Rives to enter into any correspondence with the French Government in regard to the merits
of the convention, or in relation to its execution, except to urge the prompt delivery of the
papers stipulated for in the sixth article and to apprise that Government of the arrangement
made for receiving payment of the first installment.

All which is respectfully submitted.

JOHN FORSYTH.

WASHINGTON, January 5, 1835.

To the House of Representatives:

In answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives passed on the 24th ultimo, I transmit
a report[10] from the Secretary of State upon the subject.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 10: Relating to claims of American citizens upon the Mexican Government.]

WASHINGTON, January 6, 1835.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 13, 1835.

To the House of Representatives:

In compliance with the resolution of the House of the 8th instant, requesting "copies of every
circular or letter of instruction emanating from the Treasury or War Departments since the
30th day of June last, and addressed to either the receiving or the disbursing officers stationed
in States wherein land offices are established or public works are constructing under the authority
of Congress," I transmit herewith reports from the Secretaries of the Treasury and War Departments,
containing the information sought for.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 13, 1835.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have received the resolution of the Senate of the 9th instant, requesting me to communicate
"a copy of any report made by any director or directors of the Bank of the United States appointed
by the Government, purporting to give information to the Executive of certain notes and bills
of exchange discounted at the Bank of the United States for account and benefit of George Poindexter,
a member of the Senate; also the name or names of such director or directors."

In my replies to the resolutions of the Senate of the 11th December, 1833, and of 12th of June,
1834, the former passed in their legislative and the latter in their executive capacity, I
had occasion to state the objections to requests of this nature, and to vindicate in this respect
the constitutional rights of the executive department. The views then expressed remain unchanged,
and as I think them peculiarly applicable to the present occasion I should feel myself required
to decline any reply to the resolution before me were there not reason to apprehend that persons
now in nomination before the Senate might possibly by such a course be exposed to improper
and injurious imputations.

The resolution of the Senate, standing alone, would seem to be adopted with the view of obtaining
information in regard to the transactions which may have been had between a particular member
of the Senate and the Bank of the United States. It can, however, scarcely be supposed that
such was its object, inasmuch as the Senate have it in their power to obtain any information
they may desire on this subject from their own committee, who have been freely allowed, as
appears by their published report, to make examinations of the books and proceedings of the
bank, peremptorily denied to the Government directors, and not even allowed to the committee
of the House of Representatives. It must therefore be presumed that the resolution has reference
to some other matter, and on referring to the Executive Journal of the Senate I find therein
such proceedings as in my judgment fully to authorize the apprehension stated. It will be perceived
that the paper herewith transmitted contains no information whatever as to the discounting
of notes or bills of exchange for the account and benefit of the member of the Senate named
in their resolution, nor have I at any time received from the Government directors any report
purporting to give any such information.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 29, 1835.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 11: Relating to commerce with Cuba and Puerto Rico.]

WASHINGTON, January 30, 1835.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

With, reference to the claim of the granddaughters of the Marshal de Rochambeau, and in addition
to the papers formerly communicated relating to the same subject, I now transmit to the House
of Representatives, for their consideration, a memorial to the Congress of the United States
from the Countess d'Ambrugeac and the Marquise de la Gorée, together with the letter which
accompanied it. Translations of these documents are also sent.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 6, 1835.

To the House of Representatives:

I submit to Congress a report from the Secretary of War, containing the evidence of certain
claims to reservations under the fourteenth article of the treaty of 1830 with the Choctaws,
which the locating agent has reserved from sale in conformity with instructions from the President,
who did not consider himself authorized to direct their location.

Should Congress consider the claims just, it will be proper to pass a law authorizing their
location, or satisfying them in some other way.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 6, 1835. Being of opinion that the residue of the dispatches of that minister
can not at present be laid before the House consistently with the public interest, I decline
transmitting them. In doing so, however, I deem proper to state that whenever any communication
shall be received exhibiting any change in the condition of the business referred to in the
resolution information will be promptly transmitted to Congress.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, February 5, 1835. The Secretary is not aware that the dispatches received from
the minister of the United States at Paris present any material fact which does not appear
in the correspondence already transmitted. He nevertheless incloses so much of those dispatches
written subsequently to the commencement of the present session of the French Chambers as may
serve to shew the state of the business to which they relate since that time, and also that
portion of an early dispatch which contains the substance of the assurances made to him by
His Majesty the King of the French at a formal audience granted to him for the purpose of presenting
his credentials, and he submits for the President's consideration whether the residue can consistently
with the public interest be now laid before the House.

JOHN FORSYTH.

Mr. Livingston to the Secretary of State of the United States.

[Extracts.]

PARIS, October 4, 1833.

SIR: On Monday I presented my letter of credence to the King, on which occasion I made the
address to him a copy of which is inclosed.

       *       *       *       *       *

His answer was long and earnest. I can not pretend to give you the words of it, but in substance
it was a warm expression of his good feeling toward the United States for the hospitality he
had received there, etc. ... "As to the convention," he said, "assure your Government that
unavoidable circumstances alone prevented its immediate execution, but it will be faithfully
performed. Assure your Government of this," he repeated, "the necessary laws will be passed
at the next meeting of the Chambers. I tell you this not only as King, but as an individual
whose promise will be fulfilled."

Mr. Livingston to the Secretary of State.

[Extracts.]

PARIS, November 22, 1834.

       *       *       *       *       *

I do not hope for any decision on our affairs before the middle of January. One motive for
delay is an expectation that the message of the President may arrive before the discussion,
and that it may contain something to show a strong national feeling on the subject. This is
not mere conjecture; I know the fact. And I repeat now from a full knowledge of the case what
I have more than once stated in my former dispatches as my firm persuasion, that the moderate
tone taken by our Government when the rejection was first known was attributed by some to indifference
or to a conviction on the part of the President that he would not be supported in any strong
measure by the people, and by others to a consciousness that the convention had given us more
than we were entitled to ask.

       *       *       *       *       *

I saw last night an influential member of the Chamber, who told me that, ... and that the King
had spoken of our affairs and appeared extremely anxious to secure the passage of the law.
I mention this as one of the many circumstances which, independent of official assurances,
convince me that the King is sincere, and now I have no doubt of the sincerity of his cabinet.
From all this you may imagine the anxiety I shall feel for the arrival of the President's message.
On its tone will depend very much, not only the payment of our claims, but our national reputation
for energy. I have no doubt it will be such as to attain both of these important objects.

Mr. Livingston to Mr. Forsyth.

[Extract.]

PARIS, December 6, 1834.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Chambers were convened on the 1st instant under very exciting circumstances, the ministers
individually and the papers supposed to speak their language having previously announced a
design to enter into a full explanation of their conduct, to answer all interrogations, and
place their continuance in office on the question of approval by the Chambers of their measures.

This, as you will see by the papers, they have frankly and explicitly done, and after a warm
debate of two days, which has just closed, they have gained a decided victory. This gives them
confidence, permanence, and, I hope, influence enough to carry the treaty. I shall now urge
the presentation of the law at as early a day as possible, and although I do not yet feel very
certain of success, my hopes of it are naturally much increased by the vote of this evening.
The conversations I have had with the King and with all the ministers convince me that now
they are perfectly in earnest and united on the question, and that it will be urged with zeal
and ability.

Many of the deputies, too, with whom I have entered into explanations on the subject, seem
now convinced that the interest as well as the honor of the nation requires the fulfillment
of their engagements. This gives me hopes that the endeavors I shall continue to make without
ceasing until the question is decided may be successful.

The intimation I have conceived myself authorized to make of the serious consequences that
may be expected from another rejection of the law, and of the firm determination of our Government
to admit of no reduction or change in the treaty, I think has had an effect. On the whole,
I repeat that without being at all confident I now entertain better hopes than I have for some
time past done.

Mr. Livingston to the Secretary of State.

[Extracts.]

PARIS, December 22, 1834.

Hon. JOHN FORSYTH,

Secretary of State, etc.

SIR: Our diplomatic relations with this Government are on the most extraordinary footing. With
the executive branch I have little to discuss, for they agree with me in every material point
on the subject of the treaty. With the legislature, where the great difficulty arises, I can
have no official communication. Yet, deeply impressed with the importance to my fellow-citizens
of securing the indemnity to which they are entitled, and to the country of enforcing the execution
of engagements solemnly made to it, as well as of preventing a rupture, which must infallibly
follow the final refusal to execute the convention, I have felt it a duty to use every proper
endeavor to avoid this evil. This has been and continues to be a subject of much embarrassment.

       *       *       *       *       *

My last dispatch (6th December) was written immediately after the vote of the Chamber of Deputies
had, as it was thought, secured a majority to the administration, and it naturally excited
hopes which that supposition was calculated to inspire. I soon found, however, both from the
tone of the administration press and from the language of the King and all the ministers with
whom I conferred on the subject, that they were not willing to put their popularity to the
test on our question.

It will not be made one on the determination of which the ministers are willing to risk their
portfolios. The very next day after the debate the ministerial gazette (Les Débats) declared
that, satisfied with the approbation the Chamber had given to their system, it was at perfect
liberty to exercise its discretion as to particular measures which do not form an essential
part of that system; and the communications I subsequently had with the King and the ministers
confirmed me in the opinion that the law for executing our convention was to be considered
as one of those free questions. I combated this opinion, and asked whether the faithful observance
of treaties was not an essential part of their system, and, if so, whether it did not come
within their rule. Without answering this argument, I was told of the endeavors they were making
to secure the passage of the law by preparing the statement[12] mentioned in my former dispatch.
This, it is said, is nearly finished, and from what I know of its tenor it will produce all
the effect that truth and justice can be expected to have on prejudice and party spirit.

The decision not to make it a cabinet question will not be without its favorable operation;
... some of the leaders of the opposition, who may not be willing to take the responsibility
of a rupture between the two nations by breaking the treaty, when they are convinced that instead
of forcing the ministers to resign they will themselves only incur the odium of having caused
the national breach. In this view of the subject I shall be much aided if by the tenor of the
President's message it is seen that we shall resent the breach of faith they contemplate.

It is on all hands conceded that it would be imprudent to press the decision before the next
month, when the exposition will be printed and laid before the Chambers.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the whole, I am far from being sanguine of success in the endeavors which I shall not cease
to make for the accomplishment of this important object of my mission, and I expect with some
solicitude the instructions for my conduct in the probable case of a rejection of the law.

I have the honor to be, etc.,

EDW. LIVINGSTON.

[Footnote 12: A memoir to be laid before the commission which may be appointed to examine the
law, intended to contain all the arguments and facts by which it is to be supported.]

WASHINGTON, February 10, 1835.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have received the resolution of the Senate of the 2d instant, requesting me to communicate
copies of the charges, if any, which may have been made to me against the official conduct
of Gideon Fitz, late surveyor-general south of the State of Tennessee, which caused his removal
from office.

The resolution is preceded by a preamble which alleges as reasons for this request that the
causes which may have produced the removal of the officer referred to may contain information
necessary to the action of the Senate on the nomination of his successor and to the investigation
now in progress respecting the frauds in the sales of the public lands.

This is another of those calls for information made upon me by the Senate which have, in my
judgment, either related to the subjects exclusively belonging to the executive department
or otherwise encroached on the constitutional powers of the Executive. Without conceding the
right of the Senate to make either of these requests, I have yet, for the various reasons heretofore
assigned in my several replies, deemed it expedient to comply with several of them. It is now,
however, my solemn conviction that I ought no longer, from any motive nor in any degree, to
yield to these unconstitutional demands. Their continued repetition imposes on me, as the representative
and trustee of the American people, the painful but imperious duty of resisting to the utmost
any further encroachment on the rights of the Executive. This course is especially due to the
present resolution. The President in cases of this nature possesses the exclusive power of
removal from office, and, under the sanctions of his official oath and of his liability to
impeachment, he is bound to exercise it whenever the public welfare shall require. If, on the
other hand, from corrupt motives he abuses this power, he is exposed to the same responsibilities.
On no principle known to our institutions can he be required to account for the manner in which
he discharges this portion of his public duties, save only in the mode and under the forms
prescribed by the Constitution. The suggestion that the charges a copy of which is requested
by the Senate "may contain information necessary to their action" on a nomination now before
them can not vary the principle. There is no necessary connection between the two subjects,
and even if there were the Senate have no right to call for that portion of these matters which
appertains to the separate and independent action of the Executive. The intimation that these
charges may also be necessary "to the investigation now in progress respecting frauds in the
sales of public lands" is still more insufficient to authorize the present call. Those investigations
were instituted and have thus far been conducted by the Senate in their legislative capacity,
and with the view, it is presumed, to some legislative action. If the President has in his
possession any information on the subject of such frauds, it is his duty to communicate it
to Congress, and it may undoubtedly be called for by either House sitting in its legislative
capacity, though even from such a call all matters properly belonging to the exclusive duties
of the President must of necessity be exempted.

The resolution now before me purports to have been passed in executive session, and I am bound
to presume that if the information requested therein should be communicated it would be applied
in secret session to "the investigation of frauds in the sales of the public lands." But, if
so applied, the distinction between the executive and legislative functions of the Senate would
not only be destroyed, but the citizen whose conduct is impeached would lose one of his valuable
securities, that which is afforded by a public investigation in the presence of his accusers
and of the witnesses against him. Besides, a compliance with the present resolution would in
all probability subject the conduct and motives of the President in the case of Mr. Fitz to
the review of the Senate when not sitting as judges on an impeachment, and even if this consequence
should not occur in the present case the compliance of the Executive might hereafter be quoted
as a precedent for similar and repeated applications,

Such a result, if acquiesced in, would ultimately subject the independent constitutional action
of the Executive in a matter of great national concernment to the domination and control of
the Senate; if not acquiesced in, it would lead to collisions between coordinate branches of
the Government, well calculated to expose the parties to indignity and reproach and to inflict
on the public interest serious and lasting mischief.

I therefore decline a compliance with so much of the resolution of the Senate as requests "copies
of the charges, if any," in relation to Mr. Fitz, and in doing so must be distinctly understood
as neither affirming nor denying that any such charges were made; but as the Senate may lawfully
call upon the President for information properly appertaining to nominations submitted to them,
I have the honor, in this respect, to reply that I have none to give them in the case of the
person nominated as successor to Mr. Fitz, except that I believe him, from sources entitled
to the highest credit, to be well qualified in abilities and character to discharge the duties
of the office in question.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 14, 1835.

To the Senate of the United States:

I beg leave to call the attention of Congress to the accompanying communication from the Secretary
of War, from which it appears that the "act for the relief of Benedict Alford and Robert Brush,"
although signed and duly certified by the proper officers as having passed the two Houses of
Congress at their last session, had not in fact obtained the sanction of that body when it
was presented to the President for his approval.

Under these circumstances it is thought that the subject is worthy of the consideration of
Congress.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 16, 1835. Translations of these papers are also sent.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 18, 1835.

To the House of Representatives:

Since my message a few days ago relating to Choctaw reservations other documents on the same
subject have been received from the locating agent, which are mentioned in the accompanying
report of the Secretary of War, and which I also transmit herewith for the information and
consideration of Congress.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 21, 1835.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate as to the ratification of the
same, four treaties for Potawatamie reservations, concluded by General Marshall in December last.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 25, 1835.

It will be seen that I have deemed it my duty to instruct Mr. Livingston to quit France with
his legation and return to the United States if an appropriation for the fulfillment of the
convention shall be refused by the Chambers.

The subject being now in all its present aspects before Congress, whose right it is to decide
what measures are to be pursued in that event, I deem it unnecessary to make further recommendation,
being confident that on their part everything will be done to maintain the rights and honor
of the country which the occasion requires.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, February 25, 1835.

The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:

The Secretary of State has the honor to submit to the President copies of all the letters received
from Mr. Livingston since the message to the House of Representatives of the 6th instant, of
the instructions given to that minister, and of all the late correspondence with the French
Government in Paris or in Washington, except the last note of M. Sérurier, which it has been
considered necessary to submit to the Government of France before it is made public or answered,
that it may be ascertained whether some exceptionable expressions are to be taken as the result
of a settled purpose in that Government or as the mere ebullition of the minister's indiscretion.

JOHN FORSYTH.

Mr. Livingston to Mr. Forsyth.

No. 70.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,

Paris, January 11, 1835.

Hon. JOHN FORSYTH.

SIR: Believing that it would be important for me to receive the dispatches you might think
it necessary to send with the President's message, I ventured on incurring the expense of a
courier to bring it to me as soon as it should arrive at Havre. Mr. Beasley accordingly, on
the arrival of the Sully, dispatched a messenger with my letters received by that vessel, and
a New York newspaper containing the message, but without any communication from the Department,
so that your No. 43 is still the last which I have to acknowledge. The courier arrived at 2
o'clock on the morning of the 8th. Other copies were the same morning received by the estafette,
and the contents, being soon known, caused the greatest sensation, which as yet is, I think,
unfavorable--the few members of the opposition who would have voted for the execution of the
treaty now declaring that they can not do it under the threat of reprisals, and the great body
of that party making use of the effect it has on national pride to gain proselytes from the
ministerial side of the Chamber, in which I have no doubt they have in a great degree for the
time succeeded.

The ministers are aware of this, and will not, I think, immediately urge the consideration
of the law, as I have no doubt they were prepared to do when the message arrived. Should Congress
propose commercial restrictions or determine to wait to the end of the session before they
act, this will be considered as a vote against reprisals, and then the law will be proposed
and I think carried. But I ought not to conceal from you that the excitement is at present
very great; that their pride is deeply wounded by what they call an attempt to coerce them
by threats to the payment of a sum which they persist, in opposition to the plainest proof,
in declaring not to be due. This feeling is fostered by the language of our opposition papers,
particularly by the Intelligencer and New York Courier, extracts from which have been sent
on by Americans, declaring them to be the sentiments of a majority of the people. These, as
you will see, are translated and republished here, with such comments as they might have been
expected and undoubtedly were intended to produce, and if hostilities should take place between
the two countries those persons may flatter themselves with having the credit of a great share
in producing them. The only letter I have received from home is from one of my family. This,
to my great satisfaction, informs me that the President will be supported by all parties, and
I am told that this is the language of some of the opposition papers; but as they are not sent
to the legation I can not tell in what degree this support can be depended upon. Whether the
energetic language of the message will be made the pretext with some or be the cause with others
among the deputies for rejecting the law can not, of course, be yet conjectured with any great
degree of probability, but I think it will have a good effect. It has certainly raised us in
the estimation of other powers, if I may judge from the demeanor of their representatives here,
and my own opinion is that as soon as the first excitement subsides it will operate favorably
on the counsels of France. Already some of the journals begin to change their tone, and I am
much mistaken if the opposition here, finding that we are in earnest, will incur the responsibility
of a rupture between the two nations, which they see must take place if the treaty be rejected.
The funds experienced a considerable fall as soon as the message was known, and insurance rose.
In short, it has made them feel the commercial as well as political importance of our country.

The Comte de Rigny had requested me to communicate the message to him as soon as it should
be received. This I promised to do, and accordingly on the morning of the 8th, to avoid any
mistake as to the mode of making the communication, I carried the paper to him myself, telling
him that I had received a gazette containing a paper said to be the message of the President,
which I delivered to him in compliance with my promise; but I requested him to observe that
it was not an authentic paper, nor was it delivered in pursuance of instructions, nor in my
official character. I thought it, for obvious reasons, necessary to be very explicit on this
point, and he properly understood me, as he had not yet read the message. Little more passed
at the interview, and I thought of it, but not immediately, to seek another. I shall probably,
however, see him to-night, and shall then appoint some time for a further conference, of which
I will by this same packet give you the result.

Mr. Middleton has just arrived from Madrid with the inscriptions for the Spanish indemnity
and a draft for the first payment of interest. His instructions are, he says, to leave them
with me, but as I have heard nothing from the Department I shall advise the depositing them
with Rothschild to wait the directions of the President.

The importance of obtaining the earliest intelligence at this crisis of our affairs with France
has induced me to direct that my letters should be sent by the estafette from Havre, and that
if any important advice should be received at such an hour in the day as would give a courier
an advance of some hours over the estafette, that a special messenger should be dispatched with it.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, your most obedient servant,

EDW. LIVINGSTON.

Mr. Livingston to Mr. Forsyth.

No. 71.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,

Paris, January 14, 1835.

Hon. JOHN FORSYTH.

SIR: The intended conference with the minister for foreign affairs of which I spoke to you
in my last (No. 70) took place yesterday morning. I began it by expressing my regret that a
communication from the President to Congress had been so much misrepresented in that part which
related to France as to be construed into a measure of hostilities. It was, I said, part of
a consultation between different members of our Government as to the proper course to be pursued
if the legislative body of France should persevere in refusing to provide the means of complying
with a treaty formally made; that the President, as was his duty, stated the facts truly and
in moderate language, without any irritating comment; that in further pursuance of his official
duty he declared the different modes of redress which the law of nations permitted in order
to avoid hostilities, expressing, as he ought to do, his reasons for preferring one of them;
that in all this there was nothing addressed to the French nation; and I likened it to a proceeding
well known in the French law (a family council in which the concerns and interests are discussed),
but of which in our case the debates were necessarily public; that a further elucidation of
the nature of this document might be drawn from the circumstance that no instructions had been
given to communicate it to the French Government, and that if a gazette containing it had been
delivered it was at the request of his excellency, and expressly declared to be a private communication,
not an official one. I further stated that I made this communication without instructions,
merely to counteract misapprehensions and from an earnest desire to rectify errors which might
have serious consequences. I added that it was very unfortunate that an earlier call of the
Chambers had not been made in consequence of Mr. Sérurier's promise, the noncompliance with
which was of a nature to cause serious disquietude with the Government of the United States.
I found immediately that this was the part of the message that had most seriously affected
the King, for Comte de Rigny immediately took up the argument, endeavoring to show that the
Government had acted in good faith, relying principally on the danger of a second rejection
had the Chambers been called at an early day expressly for this object I replied by repeating
that the declaration made by Mr. Sérurier was a positive and formal one, and that it had produced
a forbearance on the part of the President to lay the state of the case before Congress. In
this conference, which was a long one, we both regretted that any misunderstanding should interrupt
the good intelligence of two nations having so many reasons to preserve it and so few of conflicting
interests. He told me (what I knew before) that the exposition was prepared, and that the law
would have been presented the day after that on which the message was received. He showed me
the document, read part of it to me, and expressed regret that the language of the message
prevented it being sent in. I said that I hoped the excitement would soon subside and give
place to better feelings, in which I thought he joined with much sincerity. It is perhaps necessary
to add that an allusion was made by me to the change of ministry in November and the reinstatement
of the present ministers, which I told him I had considered as a most favorable occurrence,
and that I had so expressed myself in my communications to you, but that this circumstance
was unknown at Washington when the message was delivered; and I added that the hopes of success
held out in the communication to which I referred and the assurances it contained that the
ministers would zealously urge the adoption of the law might probably have imparted the same
hopes to the President and have induced some change in the measure he had recommended, but
that the formation of the Dupin ministry, if known, must have had a very bad effect on the
President's mind, as many of that ministry were known to be hostile to the treaty.

When I took leave the minister requested me to reflect on the propriety of presenting a note
of our conversation, which he said should be formal or otherwise, as I should desire. I told
him I would do so, and inform him on the next morning by 11 o'clock. We parted, as I thought,
on friendly terms, and in the evening, meeting him at the Austrian ambassador's, I told him
that on reflection I had determined to wait the arrival of the packet of the 16th before I
gave the note, to which he made no objection. After all this you may judge of my surprise when
last night about 10 o'clock I received the letter copy of which is inclosed, and which necessarily
closes my mission. In my reply I shall take care to throw the responsibility of breaking up
the diplomatic intercourse between the countries where it ought to rest, and will not fail
to expose the misstatements which you will observe are contained in the minister's note, both
as respects my Government and myself; but the late hour at which I received the Comte de Rigny's
note and the almost immediate departure of the packet may prevent my sending you a copy of
my communication to him, which I shall use the utmost diligence in preparing.

The law, it is said, will be presented to-day, and I have very little doubt that it will pass.
The ministerial phalanx, reenforced by those of the opposition (and they are not a few) who
will not take the responsibility of involving the country in the difficulties which they now
see must ensue, will be sufficient to carry the vote. The recall of Sérurier and the notice
to me are measures which are resorted to to save the pride of the Government and the nation.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, your most obedient servant,

EDW. LIVINGSTON.

From Count de Rigny to Mr. Livingston.

[Translation.]

DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS,

Paris, January 13, 1835.

Hon. EDWARD LIVINGSTON, etc.

SIR: You have well comprehended the nature of the impressions produced upon the King's Government
by the message which His Excellency President Jackson addressed on the 1st of December to the
Congress of the United States. Nothing certainly could have prepared us for it. Even though
the complaints expressed in it had been as just as they are in reality unjust, we should still
have had a right to be astonished on receiving the first communication of them in such a form.

In the explanations which I am now about to make I can not enter upon the consideration of
any facts other than those occurring subsequently to the vote by which the last Chamber of
Deputies refused the appropriation necessary for the payment stipulated in the treaty of July
4. However this vote may have been regarded by the Government of the United States, it is evident
that by accepting (accueillant) the promise of the King's Government to bring on a second deliberation
before the new legislature it had in fact postponed all discussion and all recrimination on
the subject of this first refusal until another decision should have either repealed or confirmed
it. This postponement therefore sets aside for the time all difficulties arising either justly
or unjustly from the rejection of the treaty or from the delay by which it had been preceded;
and although the message begins by enumerating them, I think proper, in order to confine myself
to the matter in question, only to reply to the imputations made on account of subsequent occurrences.

The reproaches which President Jackson considers himself authorized to address to France may
be summed up in a few words. The King's Government promised to present the treaty of July 4
again to the Chambers as soon as they could be assembled. They were assembled on the 31st of
July, and the treaty has not yet been presented to them. Such is exactly the whole substance
of the President's argumentation, and nothing can be easier than to refute it.

I may first observe that the assembling of the Chambers on the 31st of July, in obedience to
a legal prescription that they should be called together within a stated period after a dissolution
of the Chamber of Deputies, was nothing more than a piece of formality, and if President Jackson
had attended to the internal mechanism of our administrative system he would have been convinced
that the session of 1835 could not have really commenced at that session of 1834. Everyone
knew beforehand that after a fortnight spent in the forms of installation it would be adjourned.

The President of the United States considers that the bill relative to the American claims
should have been presented to the Chamber within that fortnight. I can not understand the propriety
of this reproach. The bill was explicitly announced in the speech from the throne on the very
day on which the Chambers met. This was all that was required to make known the opinion and
design of the Government, and to prevent that species of moral proscription to which absolute
silence would have given authority. With regard to the mere act of presentation so long before
discussion could possibly take place, this proceeding would have been so unusual and extraordinary
that it might have increased the unfavorable prepossessions of the public, already too numerous,
without producing any real advantage in return. Above all, the result which the President had
in view, of being able to announce the new vote of the Chamber of Deputies in his message,
would not have been attained.

President Jackson expresses his regrets that your solicitations (instances) had not determined
the King's Government to call the Chambers together at an earlier day. How soon soever they
may have been called, the simplest calculation will serve to shew that the discussions in our
Chambers could not have been known in the United States at the opening of Congress, and the
President's regret is therefore unfounded.

Moreover, the same obstacles and the same administrative reasons which rendered a real session
impossible during the months of July or August were almost equally opposed to its taking place
before the last weeks of the year. The head of a government like that of the United States
should be able to comprehend more clearly than anyone else those moral impossibilities which
arise from the fixed character of the principles of a constitutional régime, and to see that
in such a system the administration is subject to constant and regular forms, from which no
special interest, however important, can authorize a deviation.

It is, then, evident that far from meriting the reproach of failing to comply with its engagements,
far from having deferred, either voluntarily or from negligence, the accomplishment of its
promises, the King's Government, ever occupied in the design of fulfilling them, was only arrested
for a moment by insurmountable obstacles. This appears from the explanations now given, and
I must add that the greater part of them have already been presented by M. Sérurier to the
Government of the United States, which by its silence seemed to acknowledge their full value.

It is worthy of remark that on the 1st of December, the day on which President Jackson signed
the message to Congress, and remarked with severity that nearly a month was to elapse before
the assembling of the Chambers, they were in reality assembled in virtue of a royal ordinance
calling them together at a period earlier than that first proposed. Their assemblage was not
indeed immediately followed by the presentment of the bill relative to the American claims,
but you, sir, know better than any other person the causes of this new delay. You yourself
requested us not to endanger the success of this important affair by mingling its discussion
with debates of a different nature, as their mere coincidence might have the effect of bringing
other influences into play than those by which it should naturally be governed. By this request,
sir, you clearly shewed that you had with your judicious spirit correctly appreciated the situation
of things and the means of advancing the cause which you were called to defend. And permit
me to add that the course which you have thought proper to adopt on this point is the best
justification of that which we ourselves have for some months been pursuing in obedience to
the necessities inherent in our political organization, and in order to insure as far as lies
in our power the success of the new attempt which we were preparing to make in the Chamber.

However this may be, the King's Government, freed from the internal difficulties the force
of which you have yourself so formally admitted, was preparing to present the bill for giving
sanction to the treaty of July 4, when the strange message of December 1 came and obliged it
again to deliberate on the course which it should pursue.

The King's Government, though deeply wounded by imputations to which I will not give a name,
having demonstrated their purely gratuitous character, still does not wish to retreat absolutely
from a determination already taken in a spirit of good faith and justice. How great soever
may be the difficulties caused by the provocation which President Jackson has given, and by
the irritation which it has produced in the public mind, it will ask the Chambers for an appropriation
of twenty-five millions in order to meet the engagements of July 4; but at the same time His
Majesty has considered it due to his own dignity no longer to leave his minister exposed to
hear language so offensive to France. M. Sérurier will receive orders to return to France.

Such, sir, are the determinations of which I am charged immediately to inform you, in order
that you may make them known to the Government of the United States and that you may yourself
take those measures which may seem to you to be the natural consequences of this communication.
The passports which you may desire are therefore at your disposition.

Accept, sir, the assurance of my high consideration.

DE RIGNY.

Mr. Livingston to Mr. Forsyth.

No. 72.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,

Paris, January 15, 1835.

SIR: Having determined to send Mr. Brown, one of the gentlemen attached to the legation, to
Havre with my dispatches, I have just time to add to them the copy of the note which I have
sent to the Comte de Rigny. The course indicated by it was adopted after the best reflections
I could give to the subject, and I hope will meet the approbation of the President. My first
impressions were that I ought to follow my inclinations, demand my passports, and leave the
Kingdom. This would at once have freed me from a situation extremely painful and embarrassing;
but a closer attention convinced me that by so doing I should give to the French Government
the advantage they expect to derive from the equivocal terms of their note, which, as occasions
might serve, they might represent as a suggestion only, leaving upon me the responsibility
of breaking up the diplomatic intercourse between the two countries if I demanded my passports;
or, if I did not, and they found the course convenient, they might call it an order to depart
which I had not complied with. Baron Rothschild also called on me yesterday, saying that he
had conversed with the Comte de Rigny, who assured him that the note was not intended as a
notice to depart, and that he would be glad to see me on the subject. I answered that I could
have no verbal explanations on the subject, to which he replied that he had suggested the writing
a note on the subject, but that the minister had declined any written communication. Rothschild
added that he had made an appointment with the Comte de Rigny for 6 o'clock, and would see
me again at night, and he called to say that there had been a misunderstanding as to the time
of appointment, and that he had not seen Mr. de Rigny, but would see him this morning. But
in the meantime I determined on sending my note, not only for the reasons contained in it,
which appeared to me conclusive, but because I found that the course was the correct one in
diplomacy, and that to ask for a passport merely because the Government near which the minister
was accredited had suggested it would be considered as committing the dignity of his own; that
the universal practice in such cases was to wait the order to depart, and not by a voluntary
demand of passports exonerate the foreign Government from the odium and responsibility of so
violent a measure. My note will force them to take their ground. If the answer is that they
intended only a suggestion which I may follow or not, as I choose, I will remain, but keep
aloof until I receive your directions. If, on the other hand, I am told to depart, I will retire
to Holland or England, and there wait the President's orders. In either case the derangement
will be extremely expensive and my situation very disagreeable. The law was not presented yesterday,
but will be to-day, and I have been informed that it is to be introduced by an exposé throwing
all the blame of the present state of things on Mr. Sérurier and me for not truly representing
the opinions of our respective Governments. They may treat their own minister as they please,
but they shall not, without exposure, presume to judge of my conduct and make me the scapegoat
for their sins. The truth is, they are sadly embarrassed. If the law should be rejected, I
should not be surprised if they anticipated our reprisals by the seizure of our vessels in
port or the attack of our ships in the Mediterranean with a superior force. I shall without
delay inform Commodore Patterson of the state of things, that he may be on his guard, having
already sent him a copy of the message.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,

EDW. LIVINGSTON.

Mr. Livingston to the Count de Rigny.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

Paris, January 14, 1835.

His Excellency COUNT DE RIGNY, etc.:

The undersigned, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the United States of America,
received late last night the note of His Excellency the Count de Rigny, minister secretary
of state for foreign affairs, dated the 13th instant.

The undersigned sees with great surprise as well as regret that a communication made by one
branch of the Government of the United States to another, not addressed to that of His Majesty
the King of the French, nor even communicated to it, is alleged as the motive for a measure
which not only increases actual subjects of irritation, but which necessarily cuts off all
the usual means of restoring harmony to two nations who have the same interests, commercial
and political, to unite them, and none but factitious subjects for collision.

The grave matter in the body of his excellency's note demands and will receive a full answer.
It is to the concluding part that his attention is now requested. The undersigned, after being
informed that it is the intention of His Majesty's Government to recall Mr. Sérurier, is told
"that this information is given to the undersigned in order that he may communicate it to his
Government and in order that he may himself take those measures which may appear to him the
natural result of that communication, and that in consequence thereof the passports which he
might require are at his disposition." This phrase may be considered as an intimation of the
course which, in the opinion of His Majesty's Government, the undersigned ought to pursue as
the natural result of Mr. Sérurier's recall, or it may be construed, as it seems to have been
by the public, into a direction by His Majesty's Government to the minister of the United States
to cease his functions and leave the country.

It is necessary in a matter involving such grave consequences that there should be no misunderstanding,
the two categories demanding a line of conduct entirely different the one from the other.

In the first, he can take no directions or follow no suggestions but those given by his own
Government, which he has been sent here to represent. The recall of the minister of France
on the grounds alleged could not have been anticipated. Of course no instructions have been
given to the undersigned on the subject, and he will not take upon himself the responsibility
which he would incur by a voluntary demand of his passports, although made on the suggestion
of His Majesty's Government. If this be the sense of the passage in question, the duty of the
undersigned can not be mistaken. He will transmit the note of His Excellency the Comte de Rigny
to his Government and wait its instructions. Widely different will be his conduct if he is
informed that the conclusion of the Comte de Rigny's note is intended as a direction that he
should quit the French territory. This he will without delay comply with on being so informed
and on receiving the passports necessary for his protection until he shall leave the Kingdom.

Leaving the responsibility of this measure where it ought to rest, the undersigned has the
honor to renew to His Excellency the Comte de Rigny the assurance, etc.

EDW'D LIVINGSTON.

Mr. Livingston to Mr. Forsyth.

No. 73.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,

Paris, January 16, 1935.

Hon. J. FORSYTH, etc.

SIR: The wind being unfavorable, I hope that this letter may arrive in time for the packet.

By the inclosed semiofficial paper you will see that a law has been presented for effecting
the payment of 25,000,000 francs capital to the United States, for which the budgets of the
six years next succeeding this are affected, and with a condition annexed that our Government
shall have done nothing to affect the interests of France. It would seem from this that they
mean to pay nothing but the capital, and that only in six years from this time; but as the
law refers to the treaty for execution of which it provides, I presume the intention of the
ministry can not be to make any change in it, and that the phraseology is in conformity to
their usual forms. At any rate, I shall, notwithstanding the situation in which I am placed
in relation to this Government, endeavor to obtain some explanation on this point.

The packet of the 16th arrived, but to my great regret brought me no dispatches, and having
received none subsequent to your No. 43, and that not giving me any indication of the conduct
that would be expected from me in the event of such measures as might have been expected on
the arrival of the President's message, I have been left altogether to the guidance of my own
sense of duty under circumstances of much difficulty. I have endeavored to shape my course
through them in such a way as to maintain the dignity of my Government and preserve peace,
and, if possible, restore the good understanding that existed between the two countries. From
the view of the motives of the President's message contained in the answer of the Globe to
the article in the Intelligencer I am happy in believing that the representations I have made
to the Comte de Rigny, as detailed in my No. 71, are those entertained by the Government, and
that I have not, in this at least, gone further than it would have directed me to do had I
been favored with your instructions.

I have no answer yet to my note to the Comte de Rigny, a copy of which was sent by my last
dispatch, nor can I form any new conjecture as to the event.

The inclosed paper contains a notice that I had been received by the King. This is unfounded,
and shall be contradicted. I shall not in the present state of things make my appearance at
court, and only in cases where it is indispensable have any communication with the minister.

I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient, humble servant,

EDW. LIVINGSTON.

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Livingston.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, February 13, 1835.

EDWARD LIVINGSTON, Esq.

SIR: To relieve the anxiety expressed in your late communication to the Department of State
as to the course to be pursued in the event of the rejection by the Chamber of Deputies of
the law to appropriate funds to carry into effect the treaty of 4th July, 1831, I am directed
by the President to inform you that if Congress shall adjourn without prescribing some definite
course of action, as soon as it is known here that the law of appropriation has been again
rejected by the French Chamber a frigate will be immediately dispatched to Havre to bring you
back to the United States, with such instructions as the state of the question may then render
necessary and proper.

I am, sir, etc.,

JOHN FORSYTH.

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Livingston.

No. 49.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, February 24, 1835.

EDWARD LIVINGSTON, Esq.,

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary.

SIR: Your dispatches to No. 73 have been received at the Department--No. 73 by yesterday's
mail. Nos. 70, 71, 72 were delayed until this morning by the mismanagement of the young man
to whose care they were committed by the captain of the packet Sully in New York.

In the very unexpected and unpleasant position in which you have been placed I am directed
by the President to say to you that he approves of your conduct as well becoming the representative
of a Government ever slow to manifest resentment and eager only to fulfill the obligations
of justice and good faith, but at the same time to inform you that he should have felt no surprise
and certainly would have expressed no displeasure had you yielded to the impulse of national
pride and at once have quitted France, with the whole legation, on the receipt of the Count
de Rigny's note of the 13th of January. M. Sérurier, having received his orders, has terminated
his ministerial career by the transmission of a note, a copy of which and of all the correspondence
had with him is herewith inclosed. M. Pageot has been presented to me as charged with the affairs
of France on the recall of the minister.

The note of the Count de Rigny having no doubt, according to your intention, received from
you an appropriate reply, it is only necessary for me now to say that the Count is entirely
mistaken in supposing that any explanations have been given here by M. Sérurier of the causes
that have led to the disregard or postponement of the engagements entered into by France after
the rejection of the appropriation by the last Chamber of Deputies, and of which he was the
organ. No written communication whatever has been made on the subject, and none verbally made
of sufficient importance to be recorded, a silence with regard to which could have been justly
the foundation of any inference that the President was satisfied that the course of the French
administration was either reconcilable to the assurances given him or necessary to secure a
majority of the Chamber of Deputies.

The last note of M. Sérurier will be the subject of separate instructions, which will be immediately
prepared and forwarded to you.

In the present position of our relations with France the President directs that if the appropriation
to execute the treaty shall be or shall have been rejected by the French legislature, you forthwith
quit the territory of France, with all the legation, and return to the United States by the
ship of war which shall be in readiness at Havre to bring you back to your own country. If
the appropriation be made, you may retire to England or Holland, leaving Mr. Barton in charge
of affairs. Notify the Department of the place selected as your temporary residence and await
further instructions.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,

JOHN FORSYTH.

Mr. Sérurier to Mr. Forsyth.

[Translation.]

WASHINGTON, February 23, 1835. I therefore request you to name the hour at which it will suit
you to receive me at the Department of State.

I have the honor to be, with great consideration, sir, your obedient, humble servant,

SÉRURIER.

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Sérurier.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, February 23, 1835.

M. SÉRURIER,

Envoy Extraordinary, etc., of the King of the French:

Official information having been received by the President of the recall of Mr. Sérurier by
his Government, and the papers of the morning having announced the arrival of a French sloop
of war at New York for the supposed object of carrying him from the United States, the undersigned,
Secretary of State of the United States, tenders to Mr. Sérurier all possible facilities in
the power of this Government to afford to enable him to comply speedily with the orders he
may have received or may receive.

The undersigned avails himself of the occasion to renew to Mr. Sérurier the assurance of his
very great consideration.

JOHN FORSYTH.

The undersigned, Secretary of State of the United States, informs M. Sérurier, in reply to
his note of this instant, demanding the indication of an hour for an immediate audience, that
he is ready to receive in writing any communication the minister of France desires to have
made to the Government of the United States.

Hon. JOHN FORSYTH,

Secretary of State.

SIR: My object in asking you this morning to name the hour at which it would suit you to receive
me was in order that I might, in consequence of my recall as minister of His Majesty near the
United States, present and accredit M. Pageot, the first secretary of this legation, as chargé
d'affaires of the King. This presentation, which, according to usage, I calculated on making
in person, I have the honor, in compliance with the desire expressed to me by you, to make
in the form which you appear to prefer.

I thank you, sir, for the facilities which you have been kind enough to afford me in the note
preceding that now answered, also of this morning's date, and which crossed the letter in which
I demanded an interview.

I have the honor to renew to you, sir, the assurance of my high consideration.

SÉRURIER.

WASHINGTON, February 28, 1835.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit to the Senate of the United States a report[13] of the Secretary of State, to whom
was referred the resolutions of that body passed on the 2d and 17th days of the present month,
together with such portion of the correspondence and instructions requested by the said resolutions
as could be transcribed within the time that has elapsed since they were received and as can
be communicated without prejudice to the public interest.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 13: Relating to the treaty of indemnity with Spain of February 17, 1834.]

VETO MESSAGE.

WASHINGTON, March 3, 1835.

To the Senate:

I respectfully return to the Senate, where it originated, the "act to authorize the Secretary
of the Treasury to compromise the claims allowed by the commissioners under the treaty with
the King of the Two Sicilies, concluded October 14, 1832," without my signature.

The act is, in my judgment, inconsistent with the division of powers in the Constitution of
the United States, as it is obviously founded on the assumption that an act of Congress can
give power to the Executive or to the head of one of the Departments to negotiate with a foreign
government. The debt due by the King of the Two Sicilies will, after the commissioners have
made their decision, become the private vested property of the citizens of the United States
to whom it may be awarded. Neither the Executive nor the Legislature can properly interfere
with it without their consent. With their consent the Executive has competent authority to
negotiate about it for them with a foreign government--an authority Congress can not constitutionally
abridge or increase.

ANDREW JACKSON.

PROCLAMATION.

[From Statutes at Large (Little, Brown & Co.), Vol.

ANDREW JACKSON.

By the President:
  JOHN FORSYTH,
    Secretary of State.

SEVENTH ANNUAL MESSAGE.

The various acts of Congress which have been recently passed in relation to the Army have improved
its condition, and have rendered its organization more useful and efficient. It is at all times
in a state for prompt and vigorous action, and it contains within itself the power of extension
to any useful limit, while at the same time it preserves that knowledge, both theoretical and
practical, which education and experience alone can give, and which, if not acquired and preserved
in time of peace, must be sought under great disadvantages in time of war.

The duties of the Engineer Corps press heavily upon that branch of the service, and the public
interest requires an addition to its strength. The nature of the works in which the officers
are engaged renders necessary professional knowledge and experience, and there is no economy
in committing to them more duties than they can perform or in assigning these to other persons
temporarily employed, and too often of necessity without all the qualifications which such
service demands. I recommend this subject to your attention, and also the proposition submitted
at the last session of Congress and now renewed, for a reorganization of the Topographical
Corps. This reorganization can be effected without any addition to the present expenditure
and with much advantage to the public service. The branch of duties which devolves upon these
officers is at all times interesting to the community, and the information furnished by them
is useful in peace and war.

Much loss and inconvenience have been experienced in consequence of the failure of the bill
containing the ordinary appropriations for fortifications which passed one branch of the National
Legislature at the last session, but was lost in the other. This failure was the more regretted
not only because it necessarily interrupted and delayed the progress of a system of national
defense, projected immediately after the last war and since steadily pursued, but also because
it contained a contingent appropriation, inserted in accordance with the views of the Executive,
in aid of this important object and other branches of the national defense, some portions of
which might have been most usefully applied during the past season. I invite your early attention
to that part of the report of the Secretary of War which relates to this subject, and recommend
an appropriation sufficiently liberal to accelerate the armament of the fortifications agreeably
to the proposition submitted by him, and to place our whole Atlantic seaboard in a complete
state of defense. A just regard to the permanent interests of the country evidently requires
this measure, but there are also other reasons which at the present juncture give it peculiar
force and make it my duty to call to the subject your special consideration.

The present system of military education has been in operation sufficiently long to test its
usefulness, and it has given to the Army a valuable body of officers. It is not alone in the
improvement, discipline, and operation of the troops that these officers are employed. They
are also extensively engaged in the administrative and fiscal concerns of the various matters
confided to the War Department; in the execution of the staff duties usually appertaining to
military organization; in the removal of the Indians and in the disbursement of the various
expenditures growing out of our Indian relations; in the formation of roads and in the improvement
of harbors and rivers; in the construction of fortifications, in the fabrication of much of
the matériel required for the public defense, and in the preservation, distribution, and accountability
of the whole, and in other miscellaneous duties not admitting of classification.

These diversified functions embrace very heavy expenditures of public money, and require fidelity,
science, and business habits in their execution, and a system which shall secure these qualifications
is demanded by the public interest. That this object has been in a great measure obtained by
the Military Academy is shewn by the state of the service and by the prompt accountability
which has generally followed the necessary advances. Like all other political systems, the
present mode of military education no doubt has its imperfections, both of principle and practice;
but I trust these can be improved by rigid inspections and by legislative scrutiny without
destroying the institution itself.

Occurrences to which we as well as all other nations are liable, both in our internal and external
relations, point to the necessity of an efficient organization of the militia. I am again induced
by the importance of the subject to bring it to your attention. To suppress domestic violence
and to repel foreign invasion, should these calamities overtake us, we must rely in the first
instance upon the great body of the community whose will has instituted and whose power must
support the Government. A large standing military force is not consonant to the spirit of our
institutions nor to the feelings of our countrymen, and the lessons of former days and those
also of our own times shew the danger as well as the enormous expense of these permanent and
extensive military organizations. That just medium which avoids an inadequate preparation on
one hand and the danger and expense of a large force on the other is what our constituents
have a right to expect from their Government. This object can be attained only by the maintenance
of a small military force and by such an organization of the physical strength of the country
as may bring this power into operation whenever its services are required. A classification
of the population offers the most obvious means of effecting this organization. Such a division
may be made as will be just to all by transferring each at a proper period of life from one
class to another and by calling first for the services of that class, whether for instruction
or action, which from age is qualified for the duty and may be called to perform it with least
injury to themselves or to the public. Should the danger ever become so imminent as to require
additional force, the other classes in succession would be ready for the call. And if in addition
to this organization voluntary associations were encouraged and inducements held out for their
formation, our militia would be in a state of efficient service. Now, when we are at peace,
is the proper time to digest and establish a practicable system. The object is certainly worth
the experiment and worth the expense. No one appreciating the blessings of a republican government
can object to his share of the burden which such a plan may impose. Indeed, a moderate portion
of the national funds could scarcely be better applied than in carrying into effect and continuing
such an arrangement, and in giving the necessary elementary instruction. We are happily at
peace with all the world. A sincere desire to continue so and a fixed determination to give
no just cause of offense to other nations furnish, unfortunately, no certain grounds of expectation
that this relation will be uninterrupted. With this determination to give no offense is associated
a resolution, equally decided, tamely to submit to none. The armor and the attitude of defense
afford the best security against those collisions which the ambition, or interest, or some
other passion of nations not more justifiable is liable to produce. In many countries it is
considered unsafe to put arms into the hands of the people and to instruct them in the elements
of military knowledge. That fear can have no place here when it is recollected that the people
are the sovereign power. Our Government was instituted and is supported by the ballot box,
not by the musket. Whatever changes await it, still greater changes must be made in our social
institutions before our political system can yield to physical force. In every aspect, therefore,
in which I can view the subject I am impressed with the importance of a prompt and efficient
organization of the militia.

The plan of removing the aboriginal people who yet remain within the settled portions of the
United States to the country west of the Mississippi River approaches its consummation. It
was adopted on the most mature consideration of the condition of this race, and ought to be
persisted in till the object is accomplished, and prosecuted with as much vigor as a just regard
to their circumstances will permit, and as fast as their consent can be obtained. All preceding
experiments for the improvement of the Indians have failed. It seems now to be an established
fact that they can not live in contact with a civilized community and prosper. Ages of fruitless
endeavors have at length brought us to a knowledge of this principle of intercommunication
with them. The past we can not recall, but the future we can provide for. Independently of
the treaty stipulations into which we have entered with the various tribes for the usufructuary
rights they have ceded to us, no one can doubt the moral duty of the Government of the United
States to protect and if possible to preserve and perpetuate the scattered remnants of this
race which are left within our borders. In the discharge of this duty an extensive region in
the West has been assigned for their permanent residence. It has been divided into districts
and allotted among them. Many have already removed and others are preparing to go, and with
the exception of two small bands living in Ohio and Indiana, not exceeding 1,500 persons, and
of the Cherokees, all the tribes on the east side of the Mississippi, and extending from Lake
Michigan to Florida, have entered into engagements which will lead to their transplantation.

The plan for their removal and reestablishment is founded upon the knowledge we have gained
of their character and habits, and has been dictated by a spirit of enlarged liberality. A
territory exceeding in extent that relinquished has been granted to each tribe. Of its climate,
fertility, and capacity to support an Indian population the representations are highly favorable.
To these districts the Indians are removed at the expense of the United States, and with certain
supplies of clothing, arms, ammunition, and other indispensable articles; they are also furnished
gratuitously with provisions for the period of a year after their arrival at their new homes.
In that time, from the nature of the country and of the products raised by them, they can subsist
themselves by agricultural labor, if they choose to resort to that mode of life; if they do
not they are upon the skirts of the great prairies, where countless herds of buffalo roam,
and a short time suffices to adapt their own habits to the changes which a change of the animals
destined for their food may require. Ample arrangements have also been made for the support
of schools; in some instances council houses and churches are to be erected, dwellings constructed
for the chiefs, and mills for common use. Funds have been set apart for the maintenance of
the poor; the most necessary mechanical arts have been introduced, and blacksmiths, gunsmiths,
wheelwrights, millwrights, etc., are supported among them. Steel and iron, and sometimes salt,
are purchased for them, and plows and other farming utensils, domestic animals, looms, spinning
wheels, cards, etc., are presented to them. And besides these beneficial arrangements, annuities
are in all cases paid, amounting in some instances to more than $30 for each individual of
the tribe, and in all cases sufficiently great, if justly divided and prudently expended, to
enable them, in addition to their own exertions, to live comfortably. And as a stimulus for
exertion, it is now provided by law that "in all cases of the appointment of interpreters or
other persons employed for the benefit of the Indians a preference shall be given to persons
of Indian descent, if such can be found who are properly qualified for the discharge of the
duties."

Such are the arrangements for the physical comfort and for the moral improvement of the Indians.
The necessary measures for their political advancement and for their separation from our citizens
have not been neglected. The pledge of the United States has been given by Congress that the
country destined for the residence of this people shall be forever "secured and guaranteed
to them." A country west of Missouri and Arkansas has been assigned to them, into which the
white settlements are not to be pushed. No political communities can be formed in that extensive
region, except those which are established by the Indians themselves or by the United States
for them and with their concurrence. A barrier has thus been raised for their protection against
the encroachment of our citizens, and guarding the Indians as far as possible from those evils
which have brought them to their present condition. Summary authority has been given by law
to destroy all ardent spirits found in their country, without waiting the doubtful result and
slow process of a legal seizure. I consider the absolute and unconditional interdiction of
this article among these people as the first and great step in their melioration. Halfway measures
will answer no purpose. These can not successfully contend against the cupidity of the seller
and the overpowering appetite of the buyer. And the destructive effects of the traffic are
marked in every page of the history of our Indian intercourse.

Some general legislation seems necessary for the regulation of the relations which will exist
in this new state of things between the Government and people of the United States and these
transplanted Indian tribes, and for the establishment among the latter, and with their own
consent, of some principles of intercommunication which their juxtaposition will call for;
that moral may be substituted for physical force, the authority of a few and simple laws for
the tomahawk, and that an end may be put to those bloody wars whose prosecution seems to have
made part of their social system.

After the further details of this arrangement are completed, with a very general supervision
over them, they ought to be left to the progress of events. These, I indulge the hope, will
secure their prosperity and improvement, and a large portion of the moral debt we owe them
will then be paid.

The report from the Secretary of the Navy, shewing the condition of that branch of the public
service, is recommended to your special attention. It appears from it that our naval force
at present in commission, with all the activity which can be given to it, is inadequate to
the protection of our rapidly increasing commerce. This consideration and the more general
one which regards this arm of the national defense as our best security against foreign aggressions
strongly urge the continuance of the measures which promote its gradual enlargement and a speedy
increase of the force which has been heretofore employed abroad and at home. You will perceive
from the estimates which appear in the report of the Secretary of the Navy that the expenditures
necessary to this increase of its force, though of considerable amount, are small compared
with the benefits which they will secure to the country.

As a means of strengthening this national arm I also recommend to your particular attention
the propriety of the suggestion which attracted the consideration of Congress at its last session,
respecting the enlistment of boys at a suitable age in the service. In this manner a nursery
of skillful and able-bodied seamen can be established, which will be of the greatest importance.
Next to the capacity to put afloat and arm the requisite number of ships is the possession
of the means to man them efficiently, and nothing seems better calculated to aid this object
than the measure proposed. As an auxiliary to the advantages derived from our extensive commercial
marine, it would furnish us with a resource ample enough for all the exigencies which can be
anticipated. Considering the state of our resources, it can not be doubted that whatever provision
the liberality and wisdom of Congress may now adopt with a view to the perfect organization
of this branch of our service will meet the approbation of all classes of our citizens.

By the report of the Postmaster-General it appears that the revenue of the Department during
the year ending on the 30th day of June last exceeded its accruing responsibilities $236,206,
and that the surplus of the present fiscal year is estimated at $476,227. It further appears
that the debt of the Department on the 1st day of July last, including the amount due to contractors
for the quarter then just expired, was about $1,064,381, exceeding the available means about
$23,700; and that on the 1st instant about $597,077 of this debt had been paid--$409,991 out
of postages accruing before July and $187,086 out of postages accruing since. In these payments
are included $67,000 of the old debt due to banks. After making these payments the Department
had $73,000 in bank on the 1st instant. The pleasing assurance is given that the Department
is entirely free from embarrassment, and that by collection of outstanding balances and using
the current surplus the remaining portion of the bank debt and most of the other debt will
probably be paid in April next, leaving thereafter a heavy amount to be applied in extending
the mail facilities of the country. Reserving a considerable sum for the improvement of existing
mail routes, it is stated that the Department will be able to sustain with perfect convenience
an annual charge of $300,000 for the support of new routes, to commence as soon as they can
be established and put in operation.

The measures adopted by the Postmaster-General to bring the means of the Department into action
and to effect a speedy extinguishment of its debt, as well as to produce an efficient administration
of its affairs, will be found detailed at length in his able and luminous report. Aided by
a reorganization on the principles suggested and such salutary provisions in the laws regulating
its administrative duties as the wisdom of Congress may devise or approve, that important Department
will soon attain a degree of usefulness proportioned to the increase of our population and
the extension of our settlements.

Particular attention is solicited to that portion of the report of the Postmaster-General which
relates to the carriage of the mails of the United States upon railroads constructed by private
corporations under the authority of the several States. The reliance which the General Government
can place on those roads as a means of carrying on its operations and the principles on which
the use of them is to be obtained can not too soon be considered and settled. Already does
the spirit of monopoly begin to exhibit its natural propensities in attempts to exact from
the public, for services which it supposes can not be obtained on other terms, the most extravagant
compensation. If these claims be persisted in, the question may arise whether a combination
of citizens, acting under charters of incorporation from the States, can, by a direct refusal
or the demand of an exorbitant price, exclude the United States from the use of the established
channels of communication between the different sections of the country, and whether the United
States can not, without transcending their constitutional powers, secure to the Post-Office
Department the use of those roads by an act of Congress which shall provide within itself some
equitable mode of adjusting the amount of compensation. To obviate, if possible, the necessity
of considering this question, it is suggested whether it be not expedient to fix by law the
amounts which shall be offered to railroad companies for the conveyance of the mails, graduated
according to their average weight, to be ascertained and declared by the Postmaster-General.
It is probable that a liberal proposition of that sort would be accepted.

In connection with these provisions in relation to the Post-Office Department, I must also
invite your attention to the painful excitement produced in the South by attempts to circulate
through the mails inflammatory appeals addressed to the passions of the slaves, in prints and
in various sorts of publications, calculated to stimulate them to insurrection and to produce
all the horrors of a servile war. There is doubtless no respectable portion of our countrymen
who can be so far misled as to feel any other sentiment than that of indignant regret at conduct
so destructive of the harmony and peace of the country, and so repugnant to the principles
of our national compact and to the dictates of humanity and religion. Our happiness and prosperity
essentially depend upon peace within our borders, and peace depends upon the maintenance in
good faith of those compromises of the Constitution upon which the Union is founded. It is
fortunate for the country that the good sense, the generous feeling, and the deep-rooted attachment
of the people of the nonslaveholding States to the Union and to their fellow-citizens of the
same blood in the South have given so strong and impressive a tone to the sentiments entertained
against the proceedings of the misguided persons who have engaged in these unconstitutional
and wicked attempts, and especially against the emissaries from foreign parts who have dared
to interfere in this matter, as to authorize the hope that those attempts will no longer be
persisted in. But if these expressions of the public will shall not be sufficient to effect
so desirable a result, not a doubt can be entertained that the nonslaveholding States, so far
from countenancing the slightest interference with the constitutional rights of the South,
will be prompt to exercise their authority in suppressing so far as in them lies whatever is
calculated to produce this evil.

In leaving the care of other branches of this interesting subject to the State authorities,
to whom they properly belong, it is nevertheless proper for Congress to take such measures
as will prevent the Post-Office Department, which was designed to foster an amicable intercourse
and correspondence between all the members of the Confederacy, from being used as an instrument
of an opposite character. The General Government, to which the great trust is confided of preserving
inviolate the relations created among the States by the Constitution, is especially bound to
avoid in its own action anything that may disturb them. I would therefore call the special
attention of Congress to the subject, and respectfully suggest the propriety of passing such
a law as will prohibit, under severe penalties, the circulation in the Southern States, through
the mail, of incendiary publications intended to instigate the slaves to insurrection.

I felt it to be my duty in the first message which I communicated to Congress to urge upon
its attention the propriety of amending that part of the Constitution which provides for the
election of the President and the Vice-President of the United States. The leading object which
I had in view was the adoption of some new provisions which would secure to the people the
performance of this high duty without any intermediate agency. In my annual communications
since I have enforced the same views, from a sincere conviction that the best interests of
the country would be promoted by their adoption. If the subject were an ordinary one, I should
have regarded the failure of Congress to act upon it as an indication of their judgment that
the disadvantages which belong to the present system were not so great as those which would
result from any attainable substitute that had been submitted to their consideration. Recollecting,
however, that propositions to introduce a new feature in our fundamental laws can not be too
patiently examined, and ought not to be received with favor until the great body of the people
are thoroughly impressed with their necessity and value as a remedy for real evils, I feel
that in renewing the recommendation I have heretofore made on this subject I am not transcending
the bounds of a just deference to the sense of Congress or to the disposition of the people.
However much we may differ in the choice of the measures which should guide the administration
of the Government, there can be but little doubt in the minds of those who are really friendly
to the republican features of our system that one of its most important securities consists
in the separation of the legislative and executive powers at the same time that each is held
responsible to the great source of authority, which is acknowledged to be supreme, in the will
of the people constitutionally expressed. My reflection and experience satisfy me that the
framers of the Constitution, although they were anxious to mark this feature as a settled and
fixed principle in the structure of the Government, did not adopt all the precautions that
were necessary to secure its practical observance, and that we can not be said to have carried
into complete effect their intentions until the evils which arise from this organic defect
are remedied.

Considering the great extent of our Confederacy, the rapid increase of its population, and
the diversity of their interests and pursuits, it can not be disguised that the contingency
by which one branch of the Legislature is to form itself into an electoral college can not
become one of ordinary occurrence without producing incalculable mischief. What was intended
as the medicine of the Constitution in extreme cases can not be frequently used without changing
its character and sooner or later producing incurable disorder.

Every election by the House of Representatives is calculated to lessen the force of that security
which is derived from the distinct and separate character of the legislative and executive
functions, and while it exposes each to temptations adverse to their efficiency as organs of
the Constitution and laws, its tendency will be to unite both in resisting the will of the
people, and thus give a direction to the Government antirepublican and dangerous. All history
tells us that a free people should be watchful of delegated power, and should never acquiesce
in a practice which will diminish their control over it. This obligation, so universal in its
application to all the principles of a republic, is peculiarly so in ours, where the formation
of parties founded on sectional interests is so much fostered by the extent of our territory.
These interests, represented by candidates for the Presidency, are constantly prone, in the
zeal of party and selfish objects, to generate influences unmindful of the general good and
forgetful of the restraints which the great body of the people would enforce if they were in
no contingency to lose the right of expressing their will. The experience of our country from
the formation of the Government to the present day demonstrates that the people can not too
soon adopt some stronger safeguard for their right to elect the highest officers known to the
Constitution than is contained in that sacred instrument as it now stands.

It is my duty to call the particular attention of Congress to the present condition of the
District of Columbia. From whatever cause the great depression has arisen which now exists
in the pecuniary concerns of this District, it is proper that its situation should be fully
understood and such relief or remedies provided as are consistent with the powers of Congress.
I earnestly recommend the extension of every political right to the citizens of this District
which their true interests require, and which does not conflict with the provisions of the
Constitution. It is believed that the laws for the government of the District require revisal
and amendment, and that much good may be done by modifying the penal code so as to give uniformity
to its provisions.

Your attention is also invited to the defects which exist in the judicial system of the United
States. As at present organized the States of the Union derive unequal advantages from the
Federal judiciary, which have been so often pointed out that I deem it unnecessary to repeat
them here. It is hoped that the present Congress will extend to all the States that equality
in respect to the benefits of the laws of the Union which can only be secured by the uniformity
and efficiency of the judicial system.

With these observations on the topics of general interest which are deemed worthy of your consideration,
I leave them to your care, trusting that the legislative measures they call for will be met
as the wants and the best interests of our beloved country demand.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 14: For communication, see pp. 202-208.]

Mr. Livingston to the Duke de Broglie.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,

Paris, April 25, 1835.

His Excellency the Duc de Broglie, etc.,

Minister Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.

SIR: About to return to my own country, I am unwilling to leave this without adding one more
effort to the many I have heretofore made to restore to both that mutual good understanding
which their best interests require, and which probable events may interrupt and perhaps permanently
destroy.

From the correspondence and acts of His Majesty's Government since the message of the President
of the United States was known at Paris it is evident that an idea is entertained of making
the fulfillment of the treaty of 1831 dependent on explanations to be given of the terms used
in the message, and withholding payment of an acknowledged debt until satisfaction be given
for a supposed indecorum in demanding it. The bare possibility that this opinion might be entertained
and acted upon by His Majesty's Government renders it incumbent on me to state explicitly what
I understand to be the sentiments of mine on this subject.

Erroneous impressions, arising from the want of a proper attention to the structure of our
Government, to the duties of its Chief Magistrate, to the principles it has adopted and its
strict adherence to them in similar cases, might raise expectations which could never be realized
and lead to measures destructive of all harmony between the parties. This communication is
made in full confidence that it is the wish of His Majesty's Government, as it most sincerely
is that of the President, to avoid all measures of that description; and it is hoped, therefore,
that it will be received in the spirit by which it is dictated--that of conciliation and peace.

The form of our Government and the functions of the President as a component part of it have
in their relation to this subject been sufficiently explained in my previous correspondence,
especially in my letter to the Comte de Rigny of the 29th of January last. I have therefore
little to add to that part of my representation which is drawn from the form of our Government
and the duties of the President in administering it. If these are fully understood, the principles
of action derived from them can not be mistaken.

The President, as the chief executive power, must have a free and entirely unfettered communication
with the coordinate powers of Government. As the organ of intercourse with other nations, he
is the only source from which a knowledge of our relations with them can be conveyed to the
legislative branches. It results from this that the utmost freedom from all restraint in the
details into which he is obliged to enter of international concerns and of the measures in
relation to them is essential to the proper performance of this important part of his functions.
He must exercise them without having continually before him the fear of offending the susceptibility
of the powers whose conduct he is obliged to notice. In the performance of this duty he is
subject to public opinion and his own sense of propriety for an indiscreet, to his constituents
for a dangerous, and to his constitutional judges for an illegal, exercise of the power, but
to no other censure, foreign or domestic. Were any foreign powers permitted to scan the communications
of the Executive, their complaints, whether real or affected, would involve the country in
continual controversies; for the right being acknowledged, it would be a duty to exercise it
by demanding a disavowal of every phrase they might deem offensive and an explanation of every
word to which an improper interpretation could be given. The principle, therefore, has been
adopted that no foreign power has a right to ask for explanations of anything that the President,
in the exercise of his functions, thinks proper to communicate to Congress, or of any course
he may advise them to pursue. This rule is not applicable to the Government of the United States
alone, but, in common with it, to all those in which the constitutional powers are distributed
into different branches. No such nation desirous of avoiding foreign influence or foreign interference
in its councils; no such nation possessing a due sense of its dignity and independence, can
long submit to the consequences of this interference. When these are felt, as they soon will
be, all must unite in repelling it, and acknowledge that the United States are contending in
a cause common to them all, and more important to the liberal Governments of Europe than even
to themselves; for it is too obvious to escape the slightest attention that the Monarchies
of Europe by which they are surrounded will have all the advantage of this supervision of the
domestic councils of their neighbors without being subject to it themselves. It is true that
in the representative Governments of Europe executive communications to legislative bodies
have not the extension that is given to them in the United States, and that they are therefore
less liable to attack on that quarter; but they must not imagine themselves safe. In the opening
address, guarded as it commonly is, every proposition made by the ministry, every resolution
of either chamber, will offer occasions for the jealous interference of national punctilio,
for all occupy the same grounds. No intercommunication of the different branches of Government
will be safe, and even the courts of justice will afford no sanctuary for freedom of decision
and of debate, and the susceptibility of foreign powers must be consulted in all the departments
of Government. Occasions for intervention in the affairs of other countries are but too numerous
at present, without opening another door to encroachments; and it is no answer to the argument
to say that no complaints will be made but for reasonable cause, and that of this, the nation
complained of being the judge, no evil can ensue. But this argument concedes the right of examining
the communications in question, which is denied. Allow it and you will have frivolous as well
as grave complaints to answer, and must not only heal the wounds of a just national pride,
but apply a remedy to those of a morbid susceptibility. To show that my fear of the progressive
nature of these encroachments is not imaginary, I pray leave to call your excellency's attention
to the inclosed report from the Secretary of State to the President. It is offered for illustration,
not for complaint; I am instructed to make none. Because the Government of France has taken
exceptions to the President's opening message, the chargé d'affaires of France thinks it his
duty to protest against a special communication, and to point out the particular passages in
a correspondence of an American minister with his own Government to the publication of which
he objects. If the principle I contest is just, the chargé d'affaires is right. He has done
his duty as a vigilant supervisor of the President's correspondence. If the principle is admitted,
every diplomatic agent at Washington will do the same, and we shall have twenty censors of
the correspondence of the Government and of the public press. If the principle is correct,
every communication which the President makes in relation to our foreign affairs, either to
the Congress or to the public, ought in prudence to be previously submitted to these ministers,
in order to avoid disputes and troublesome and humiliating explanations. If the principle be
submitted to, neither dignity nor independence is left to the nation. To submit even to a discreet
exercise of such a privilege would be troublesome and degrading, and the inevitable abuse of
it could not be borne. It must therefore be resisted at the threshold, and its entrance forbidden
into the sanctuary of domestic consultations. But whatever may be the principles of other governments,
those of the United States are fixed; the right will never be acknowledged, and any attempt
to enforce it will be repelled by the undivided energy of the nation.

I pray your excellency to observe that my argument does not deny a right to all foreign powers
of taking proper exceptions to the governmental acts and language of another. It is to their
interference in its consultations, in its proceedings while yet in an inchoate state, that
we object. Should the President do an official executive act affecting a foreign power, or
use exceptionable language in addressing it through his minister or through theirs; should
a law be passed injurious to the dignity of another nation--in all these and other similar
cases a demand for explanation would be respectfully received, and answered in the manner that
justice and a regard to the dignity of the complaining nation would require.

After stating these principles, let me add that they have not only been theoretically adopted,
but that they have been practically asserted. On two former occasions exceptions of the same
nature were taken to the President's message by the Government of France, and in neither did
they produce any other explanation than that derived from the nature of our Government, and
this seems on those occasions to have been deemed sufficient, for in both cases the objections
were virtually abandoned--one when Messrs. Marshall, Gerry, and Pinckney were refused to be
received, and again in the negotiation between Prince Polignac and Mr. Rives. In the former
case, although the message of the President was alleged as the cause of the refusal to receive
the ministers, yet without any such explanation their successors were honorably accredited.
In the latter case the allusion in the message to an apprehended collision was excepted to,
but the reference made by Mr. Rives to the constitutional duties of the President seems to
have removed the objection.

Having demonstrated that the United States can not in any case permit their Chief Magistrate
to be questioned by any foreign government in relation to his communications with the coordinate
branches of his own, it is scarcely necessary to consider the case of such an explanation being
required as the condition on which the fulfillment of a treaty or any pecuniary advantage was
to depend. The terms of such a proposition need only be stated to show that it would be not
only inadmissible, but rejected as offensive to the nation to which it might be addressed.
In this case it would be unnecessary as well as inadmissible. France has already received,
by the voluntary act of the President, every explanation the nicest sense of national honor
could desire. That which could not have been given to a demand, that which can never be given
on the condition now under discussion, a fortunate succession of circumstances, as I shall
proceed to shew, has brought about. Earnestly desirous of restoring the good understanding
between the two nations, as soon as a dissatisfaction with the President's message was shewn
I suppressed every feeling which the mode of expressing that dissatisfaction was calculated
to produce, and without waiting for instructions I hastened on my own responsibility to make
a communication to your predecessor in office on the subject. In this, under the reserve that
the President could not be called on for an explanation, I did in fact give one that I thought
would have removed all injurious impressions.

This is the first of the fortunate circumstances to which I have alluded--fortunate in being
made before any demand implying a right to require it; fortunate in its containing, without
any knowledge of the precise parts of the message which gave offense, answers to all that have
since come to my knowledge. I can easily conceive that the communication of which I speak,
made, as I expressly stated, without previous authority from my Government, might not have
had the effect which its matter was intended to produce, but it has since (as I have now the
honor to inform your excellency) received from the President his full and unqualified approbation;
but it is necessary to add that this was given before he had any intimation of an intention
to attach it as a condition to the payment of the indemnity due by the treaty, given not only
when he was ignorant of any such intent, but when he was informed by France that she intended
to execute the treaty and saw by the law which was introduced that it was not to be fettered
by any such condition. Thus that is already done by a voluntary act which could not have been
done when required as a right, still less when made, what will unquestionably in the United
States be considered degrading, as a condition. At this time, sir, I would for no consideration
enter into the details I then did. If I could now so far forget what under present circumstances
would be due to the dignity of my country, I should be disavowed, and deservedly disavowed,
by the President. It is happy, therefore, I repeat, that the good feeling of my country was
evinced in the manner I have stated at the only time when it could be done with honor; and
though present circumstances would forbid my making the communication I then did, they do not
prevent my referring to it for the purpose of shewing that it contains, as I have stated it
does, everything that ought to have been satisfactory. Actual circumstances enable me to do
this now. Future events, which I need not explain, may hereafter render it improper, and it
may be nugatory unless accepted as satisfactory before the occurrence of those events. Let
it be examined with the care which the importance of giving it a true construction requires.
The objections to the message, as far as I can understand, for they have never been specified, are:

First. That it impeaches the good faith of His Majesty's Government.

Secondly. That it contains a menace of enforcing the performance of the treaty by reprisals.

On the first head, were I now discussing the terms of the message itself, it would be easy
to shew that it contains no such charge. The allegation that the stipulations of a treaty have
not been complied with, that engagements made by ministers have not been fulfilled, couched
in respectful terms, can never be deemed offensive, even when expressly directed to the party
whose infractions are complained of, and consequently can never give cause for a demand of
explanation; otherwise it is evident that no consideration of national injuries could ever
take place. The message, critically examined on this point, contains nothing more than such
an enumeration of the causes of complaint. As to its terms, the most fastidious disposition
can not fasten on one that could be excepted to. The first refusal and subsequent delay are
complained of, but no unworthy motives for either are charged or insinuated. On the whole,
if I were commissioned to explain and defend this part of the message, I should say with the
conviction of truth that it is impossible to urge a complaint in milder or more temperate terms;
but I am not so commissioned. I am endeavoring to shew not only that every proper explanation
is given in my letter to M. de Rigny of the 29th of January last, but that in express terms
it declares that the sincerity of His Majesty's Government in their desire to execute the treaty
was not doubted. Suffer me to draw your excellency's attention to the passages alluded to.
In discussing the nature of M. Sérurier's engagement I say:

"It is clear, therefore, that more was required than the expression of a desire on the part
of His Majesty's ministers to execute the treaty, a desire the sincerity of which was never
doubted, but which might be unavailing, as its accomplishment depended on the vote of the Chambers."

Again, in speaking of the delay which occurred in the month of December, I say:

"It is referred to, I presume, in order to shew that it was produced by a desire on the part
of His Majesty's ministers the better to assure the passage of the law. Of this, sir, I never
had a doubt, and immediately so advised my Government, and informed it, as was the fact, that
I perfectly acquiesced in the delay."

Thus it must be evident, not only that no offensive charge of ill faith is made in the message,
but that, as is expressly stated in the first extract, full justice was done at Washington
to the intentions of the French Government. While the delay is complained of us a wrong, no
improper motives are attributed to the Government in causing it. Again, sir, the whole tenor
of that part of my letter which relates to the inexecution of the promise made by M. Sérurier,
while it asserts the construction put upon it by the President to be the true one, and appeals
to facts and circumstances to support that construction, yet it avoids charging the French
Government with any intentional violation, by attributing their delay to an erroneous construction
only; for in the letter (I again quote literally) I say:

"I have entered into this detail with the object of showing that although the ministers of
the King, under the interpretation they seem to have given to M. Sérurier's promise, may have
considered themselves at liberty to defer the presentation of the law until the period which
they thought would best secure its success, yet the President, interpreting that promise differently,
feeling that in consequence of it he had forborne to do what might be strictly called a duty,
and seeing that its performance had not taken place, could not avoid stating the whole case
clearly and distinctly to Congress."

Thus, sir, the President, in stating the acts of which he thought his country had reason to
complain, does not make a single imputation of improper motive, and to avoid all misconstruction
he offers a voluntary declaration that none such were entertained.

The part of the message which seems to have caused the greatest sensation in France is that
in which, after a statement of the causes of complaint, it enters into a consideration of the
measures to obtain redress which in similar cases are sanctioned by the laws of nations. The
complaint seems to be that, in a discussion it was impossible to avoid, of the efficacy and
convenience of each, a preference was given to reprisals, considered as a remedial, not as
a hostile, measure, and this has been construed into a menace. If any explanations were necessary
on this head, they are given in the message itself. It is there expressly disavowed, and the
power and high character of France are appealed to to shew that it never could be induced by
threats to do what its sense of justice denied. If the measure to which I have more than once
alluded should be resorted to, and the humiliation attending a compliance with it could be
endured; if it were possible under such circumstances to give an explanation, what more could
be required than that which is contained in the message itself that it was not intended as
a menace? If the measure to which I alluded should be adopted and submitted to, what would
His Majesty's Government require? The disavowal of any intent to influence the councils of
France by threats? They have it already. It forms a part of the very instrument which caused
the offense, and I will not do them the injustice to think that they could form the offensive
idea of requiring more. The necessity of discussing the nature of the remedies for the nonexecution
of the treaty, the character and spirit in which it was done, are explained in my letter so
often referred to, and I pray your excellency to consider the concluding part of it, beginning
with the quotation I have last made. But if I wanted any argument to shew that no explanation
of this part of the message was necessary or could be required, I should find it in the opinion--certainly
a just one--expressed by His Majesty's ministers, that the recommendation of the President
not having been adopted by the other branches of the Government it was not a national act,
and could not be complained of as such. Nay, in the note presented by M. Sérurier to the Government
at Washington and the measures which it announces (his recall and the offer of my passports)
the Government of His Majesty seem to have done all that they thought its dignity required,
for they at the same time declare that the law providing for the payment will be presented,
but give no intimation of any previous condition and annex none to the bill which they present.
The account of dignity being thus declared by this demonstration to be settled, it can not
be supposed that it will again be introduced as a set-off against an acknowledged pecuniary
balance. Before I conclude my observations on this part of the subject it will be well to inquire
in what light exceptions are taken to this part of the message, whether as a menace generally
or to the particular measure proposed. In the first view, if every measure that a Government
having claims on another declares it must pursue if those claims are not allowed (whatever
may be the terms employed) is a menace, it is necessary, and not objectionable unless couched
in offensive language; it is a fair declaration of what course the party making it intends
to pursue, and except in cases where pretexts were wanted for a rupture have rarely been objected
to, even when avowedly the act of the nation, not, as in this case, a proposal made by one
branch of its Government to another. Instances of this are not wanting, but need not be here
enumerated. One, however, ought to be mentioned, because it is intimately connected with the
subject now under discussion. While the commerce of the United States was suffering under the
aggressions of the two most powerful nations of the world the American Government, in this
sense of the word, menaced them both. It passed a law in express terms declaring to them that
unless they ceased their aggressions America would hold no intercourse with them; that their
ships would be seized if they ventured into American ports; that the productions of their soil
or industry should be forfeited. Here was an undisguised menace in clear, unequivocal terms,
and of course, according to the argument against which I contend, neither France nor England
could deliberate under its pressure without dishonor. Yet the Emperor of France, certainly
an unexceptionable judge of what the dignity of his country required, did deliberate, did accept
the condition, did repeal the Berlin and Milan decrees, did not make any complaint of the act
as a threat, though he called it an injury. Great Britain, too, although at that time on not
very friendly terms with the United States, made no complaint that her pride was offended.
Her minister on the spot even made a declaration that the obnoxious orders were repealed. It
is true he was disavowed, but the disavowal was accompanied by no objections to the law as
a threat. Should the objection be to the nature of the remedy proposed, and that the recommendation
of reprisals is the offensive part, it would be easy to show that it stands on the same ground
with any other remedy; that it is not hostile in its nature; that it has been resorted to by
France to procure redress from other powers, and by them against her, without producing war.
But such an argument is not necessary. This is not the case of a national measure, either of
menace or action; it is a recommendation only of one branch of Government to another, and France
has itself shown that a proposal of this nature could not be noticed as an offense. In the
year 1808 the Senate of the United States annexed to the bill of nonintercourse a section which
not only advised but actually authorized the President to issue letters of marque and reprisal
against both France and England, if the one did not repeal the Berlin and Milan decrees and
the other did not revoke the orders in council. This clause was not acceded to by the Representatives,
but it was complete as the act of the Senate; yet neither France nor England complained of
it as an indignity. Both powers had ministers on the spot, and the dignity of neither seems
to have been offended.

If the view I have now taken of the subject be correct; if I have succeeded in conveying to
His Majesty's ministers the conviction I myself feel that no right exists in any foreign nation
to ask explanations of or even to notice any communications between the different branches
of our Government; that to admit it even in a single instance would be a dangerous precedent
and a derogation from national dignity, and that in the present instance an explanation that
ought to be satisfactory has been voluntarily given, I have then demonstrated that any measure
founded on such supposed right is not only inadmissible, but is totally unnecessary, and consequently
that His Majesty's ministers may at once declare that previous explanations given by the minister
of the United States, and subsequently approved by the President, had satisfied them on the
subject of the message.

The motives of my Government during the whole course of this controversy have been misunderstood
or not properly appreciated, and the question is daily changing its character. A negotiation
entered into for procuring compensation to individuals involved no positive obligation on their
Governments to prosecute it to extremities. A solemn treaty, ratified by the constitutional
organs of the two powers, changed the private into a public right. The Government acquires
by it a perfect right to insist on its stipulations. All doubts as to their justice seem now
to have been removed, and every objection to the payment of a debt acknowledged to be just
will be severely scrutinized by the impartial world. What character will be given to a refusal
to pay such a debt on the allegation, whether well or ill founded, of an offense to national
honor it does not become me to say. The French nation are the last that would ever appreciate
national honor by any number of millions it could withhold as a compensation for an injury
offered to it. The United States, commercial as they are, are the last that would settle such
an account. The proposition I allude to would be unworthy of both, and it is sincerely to be
hoped that it will never be made.

To avoid the possibility of misapprehension, I repeat that this communication is made with
the single view of apprising His Majesty's Government of the consequences attending a measure
which without such notice they might be inclined to pursue; that although I am not authorized
to state what measures will be taken by the United States, yet I speak confidently of the principles
they have adopted, and have no doubt they will never be abandoned.

This is the last communication I shall have the honor to make. It is dictated by a sincere
desire to restore a good intelligence, which seems to be endangered by the very measure intended
to consolidate it. Whatever be the result, the United States may appeal to the world to bear
witness that in the assertion of the rights of their citizens and the dignity of their Government
they have never swerved from the respect due to themselves and from that which they owe to
the Government of France.

WASHINGTON, June 29, 1835.

Hon. JOHN FORSYTH,

Secretary of State, etc.

SIR: After having by my note to the Duke de Broglie dated the 25th April last made a final
effort to preserve a good understanding between the United States and France by suggesting
such means of accommodation as I thought were consistent with the honor of the one country
to offer and of the other to accept, I determined to avail myself of the leave to return which
was given by your dispatch, No,--, rather than to remain, as I had desired to do, in England
waiting the result of my last communication. This step having been approved by the President,
I need not here refer to the reasons which induced me to take it. Having received my passports,
I left Paris on the 29th of April. At the time of my departure the note, of which a copy has
been transmitted to you, asking an explanation of the terms used in Mr. Sérurier's communication
to the Department remained unanswered, but I have reason to believe that the answer when given
will be satisfactory.

The principal business with which I was charged having thus been brought to a close, I presume
that my services can no longer be useful to my country, and I therefore pray that the President
will be pleased to accept my resignation of the trust with which I have been honored. I shall
terminate it by transmitting to the Department some papers relating to matters of minor importance
which I soon expect to receive, and will add the explanations which may yet be wanting to give
a full view of the affairs of the mission up to the time of my leaving France.

EDWARD LIVINGSTON, Esq.,

Washington.

SIR: Your letter of the 29th instant has been laid before the President, and I am directed
to reply that the President can not allow you, who have been so long and usefully employed
in the public service, to leave the trust last confided to you without an expression of his
regard and respect, the result of many years of intimate association in peace and war. Although
differing on some points of general policy, your singleness of purpose, perfect integrity,
and devotion to your country have been always known to him. In the embarrassing and delicate
position you have lately occupied your conduct, and especially your last official note in closing
your correspondence with the French Government, has met his entire approbation, exhibiting
as it does, with truth, the anxious desire of the Government and the people of the United States
to maintain the most liberal and pacific relations with the nation to which you were accredited,
and a sincere effort to remove ill-founded impressions and to soothe the feelings of national
susceptibility, even when they have been unexpectedly excited, while at the same time it discourages
with a proper firmness any expectation that the American Government can ever be brought to
allow an interference inconsistent with the spirit of its institutions or make concessions
incompatible with its self-respect. The President is persuaded that he will be sustained in
these opinions by the undivided sentiment of the American people, and that you will carry into
a retirement which he trusts may be temporary the consciousness not only of having performed
your duty, but of having realized the anticipations of your fellow-citizens and secured for
yourself and your country the just appreciation of the world.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN FORSYTH.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

WASHINGTON CITY, December 8, 1835.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 9, 1835.

To the Senate and House of Representatives.

GENTLEMEN: I herewith communicate, for the information of Congress, a report of the Secretary
of War, with accompanying documents, showing the progress made during the present year in the
astronomical observations made under the act of the 14th of July, 1832, relative to the northern
boundary of the State of Ohio.

The controversy between the authorities of the State of Ohio and those of the Territory of
Michigan in respect to this boundary assumed about the time of the termination of the last
session of Congress a very threatening aspect, and much care and exertion were necessary to
preserve the jurisdiction of the Territorial government under the acts of Congress and to prevent
a forcible collision between the parties. The nature and course of the dispute and the measures
taken by the Executive for the purpose of composing it will fully appear in the accompanying
report from the Secretary of State and the documents therein referred to.

The formation of a State government by the inhabitants of the Territory of Michigan and their
application, now pending, to be admitted into the Union give additional force to the many important
reasons which call for the settlement of this question by Congress at their present session.

The territory comprised within these limits being part of the district of country described
in the ordinance of the 13th of July, 1787, which provides that whenever any of the States
into which the same should be divided should have 60,000 free inhabitants such State should
be admitted by its delegates into the Congress of the United States on an equal footing with
the original States in all respects whatever, and shall be at liberty to form a permanent constitution
and State government, provided the constitution and State government so to be formed shall
be republican, and in conformity to the principles contained in these articles, etc., the inhabitants
thereof have during the present year, in pursuance of the right secured by the ordinance, formed
a constitution and State government. That instrument, together with various other documents
connected therewith, has been transmitted to me for the purpose of being laid before Congress,
to whom the power and duty of admitting new States into the Union exclusively appertains; and
the whole are herewith communicated for your early decision.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 17, 1835.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 17, 1835. The Executive having no authority to take any steps for accepting
the trust and obtaining the funds, the papers are communicated with a view to such measures
as Congress may deem necessary.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 22, 1835.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 22, 1835. A copy of the convention is also transmitted for the convenience
of the Senate.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DECEMBER 23, 1835.

To the Senate of the United States:

I hereby submit, for the advice and sanction of the Senate, the inclosed proposal of the Secretary
of the Treasury for the investment of the proceeds of the sales of public lands in behalf of
the Chickasaw Indians under the treaties therein mentioned.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 11, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

Having laid before Congress on the 9th ultimo the correspondence which had previously taken
place relative to the controversy between Ohio and Michigan on the question of boundary between
that State and Territory, I now transmit reports from the Secretaries of State and War on the
subject, with the papers therein referred to.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 12, 1836.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration and advice of the Senate as to the ratification
of the same, the two treaties concluded with the Carmanchee Indians and with the Caddo Indians
referred to in the accompanying communication from the War Department.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 15, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives.

GENTLEMEN: In my message at the opening of your session I informed you that our chargé d'affaires
at Paris had been instructed to ask for the final determination of the French Government in
relation to the payment of the indemnification secured by the treaty of the 4th of July, 1831,
and that when advices of the result should be received it would be made the subject of a special
communication.

In execution of this design I now transmit to you the papers numbered from 1 to 13, inclusive,
containing among other things the correspondence on this subject between our chargé d'affaires
and the French minister of foreign affairs, from which it will be seen that France requires
as a condition precedent to the execution of a treaty unconditionally ratified and to the payment
of a debt acknowledged by all the branches of her Government to be due that certain explanations
shall be made of which she dictates the terms. These terms are such as that Government has
already been officially informed can not be complied with, and if persisted in they must be
considered as a deliberate refusal on the part of France to fulfill engagements binding by
the laws of nations and held sacred by the whole civilized world. The nature of the act which
France requires from this Government is clearly set forth in the letter of the French minister
marked No. 4. We will pay the money, says he, when "the Government of the United States is
ready on its part to declare to us, by addressing its claim to us officially in writing, that
it regrets the misunderstanding which has arisen between the two countries; that this misunderstanding
is founded on a mistake; that it never entered into its intention to call in question the good
faith of the French Government nor to take a menacing attitude toward France." And he adds:
"If the Government of the United States does not give this assurance we shall be obliged to
think that this misunderstanding is not the result of an error." In the letter marked No. 6
the French minister also remarks that "the Government of the United States knows that upon
itself depends henceforward the execution of the treaty of July 4, 1831."

Obliged by the precise language thus used by the French minister to view it as a peremptory
refusal to execute the treaty except on terms incompatible with the honor and independence
of the United States, and persuaded that on considering the correspondence now submitted to
you you can regard it in no other light, it becomes my duty to call your attention to such
measures as the exigency of the case demands if the claim of interfering in the communications
between the different branches of our Government shall be persisted in. This pretension is
rendered the more unreasonable by the fact that the substance of the required explanation has
been repeatedly and voluntarily given before it was insisted on as a condition--a condition
the more humiliating because it is demanded as the equivalent of a pecuniary consideration.
Does France desire only a declaration that we had no intention to obtain our rights by an address
to her fears rather than to her justice? She has already had it, frankly and explicitly given
by our minister accredited to her Government, his act ratified by me, and my confirmation of
it officially communicated by him in his letter to the French minister of foreign affairs of
the 25th of April, 1835, and repeated by my published approval of that letter after the passage
of the bill of indemnification. Does France want a degrading, servile repetition of this act,
in terms which she shall dictate and which will involve an acknowledgment of her assumed right
to interfere in our domestic councils? She will never obtain it. The spirit of the American
people, the dignity of the Legislature, and the firm resolve of their executive government
forbid it.

As the answer of the French minister to our chargé d'affaires at Paris contains an allusion
to a letter addressed by him to the representative of France at this place, it now becomes
proper to lay before you the correspondence had between that functionary and the Secretary
of State relative to that letter, and to accompany the same with such explanations as will
enable you to understand the course of the Executive in regard to it. Recurring to the historical
statement made at the commencement of your session, of the origin and progress of our difficulties
with France, it will be recollected that on the return of our minister to the United States
I caused my official approval of the explanations he had given to the French minister of foreign
affairs to be made public. As the French Government had noticed the message without its being
officially communicated, it was not doubted that if they were disposed to pay the money due
to us they would notice any public explanation of the Government of the United States in the
same way. But, contrary to these well-founded expectations, the French ministry did not take
this fair opportunity to relieve themselves from their unfortunate position and to do justice
to the United States.

Whilst, however, the Government of the United States was awaiting the movements of the French
Government in perfect confidence that the difficulty was at an end, the Secretary of State
received a call from the French chargé d'affaires in Washington, who desired to read to him
a letter he had received from the French minister of foreign affairs. He was asked whether
he was instructed or directed to make any official communication, and replied that he was only
authorized to read the letter and furnish a copy if requested. The substance of its contents,
it is presumed, may be gathered from Nos. 4 and 6, herewith transmitted. It was an attempt
to make known to the Government of the United States privately in what manner it could make
explanations, apparently voluntary, but really dictated by France, acceptable to her, and thus
obtain payment of the 25,000,000 francs. No exception was taken to this mode of communication,
which is often used to prepare the way for official intercourse, but the suggestions made in
it were in their substance wholly inadmissible. Not being in the shape of an official communication
to this Government, it did not admit of reply or official notice, nor could it safely be made
the basis of any action by the Executive or the Legislature, and the Secretary of State did
not think proper to ask a copy, because he could have no use for it. Copies of papers marked
Nos. 9, 10, and 11 shew an attempt on the part of the French chargé d'affaires to place a copy
of this letter among the archives of this Government, which for obvious reasons was not allowed
to be done; but the assurance before given was repeated, that any official communication which
he might be authorized to make in the accustomed form would receive a prompt and just consideration.
The indiscretion of this attempt was made more manifest by the subsequent avowal of the French
chargé d'affaires that the object was to bring this letter before Congress and the American
people. If foreign agents, on a subject of disagreement between their government and this,
wish to prefer an appeal to the American people, they will hereafter, it is hoped, better appreciate
their own rights and the respect due to others than to attempt to use the Executive as the
passive organ of their communications.

It is due to the character of our institutions that the diplomatic intercourse of this Government
should be conducted with the utmost directness and simplicity, and that in all cases of importance
the communications received or made by the Executive should assume the accustomed official
form. It is only by insisting on this form that foreign powers can be held to full responsibility,
that their communications can be officially replied to, or that the advice or interference
of the Legislature can with propriety be invited by the President. This course is also best
calculated, on the one hand, to shield that officer from unjust suspicions, and on the other
to subject this portion of his acts to public scrutiny, and, if occasion shall require it,
to constitutional animadversion. It was the more necessary to adhere to these principles in
the instance in question inasmuch as, in addition to other important interests, it very intimately
concerned the national honor--a matter in my judgment much too sacred to be made the subject
of private and unofficial negotiation.

It will be perceived that this letter of the French minister of foreign affairs was read to
the Secretary of State on the 11th of September last. This was the first authentic indication
of the specific views of the French Government received by the Government of the United States
after the passage of the bill of indemnification. Inasmuch as the letter had been written before
the official notice of my approval of Mr. Livingston's last explanation and remonstrance could
have reached Paris, just ground of hope was left, as has been before stated, that the French
Government, on receiving that information in the same manner as the alleged offensive message
had reached them, would desist from their extraordinary demand and pay the money at once. To
give them an opportunity to do so, and, at all events, to elicit their final determination
and the ground they intended to occupy, the instructions were given to our chargé d'affaires
which were adverted to at the commencement of the present session of Congress. The result,
as you have seen, is a demand of an official written expression of regrets and a direct explanation
addressed to France with a distinct intimation that this is a sine qua non.

Mr. Barton having, in pursuance of his instructions, returned to the United States and the
chargé d'affaires of France having been recalled, all diplomatic intercourse between the two
countries is suspended, a state of things originating in an unreasonable susceptibility on
the part of the French Government and rendered necessary on our part by their refusal to perform
engagements contained in a treaty from the faithful performance of which by us they are to
this day enjoying many important commercial advantages.

It is time that this unequal position of affairs should cease, and that legislative action
should be brought to sustain Executive exertion in such measures as the case requires. While
France persists in her refusal to comply with the terms of a treaty the object of which was,
by removing all causes of mutual complaint, to renew ancient feelings of friendship and to
unite the two nations in the bonds of amity and of a mutually beneficial commerce, she can
not justly complain if we adopt such peaceful remedies as the law of nations and the circumstances
of the case may authorize and demand. Of the nature of these remedies I have heretofore had
occasion to speak, and, in reference to a particular contingency, to express my conviction
that reprisals would be best adapted to the emergency then contemplated. Since that period
France, by all the departments of her Government, has acknowledged the validity of our claims
and the obligations of the treaty, and has appropriated the moneys which are necessary to its
execution; and though payment is withheld on grounds vitally important to our existence as
an independent nation, it is not to be believed that she can have determined permanently to
retain a position so utterly indefensible. In the altered state of the questions in controversy,
and under all existing circumstances, it appears to me that until such a determination shall
have become evident it will be proper and sufficient to retaliate her present refusal to comply
with her engagements by prohibiting the introduction of French products and the entry of French
vessels into our ports. Between this and the interdiction of all commercial intercourse, or
other remedies, you, as the representatives of the people, must determine. I recommend the
former in the present posture of our affairs as being the least injurious to our commerce,
and as attended with the least difficulty of returning to the usual state of friendly intercourse
if the Government of France shall render us the justice that is due, and also as a proper preliminary
step to stronger measures should their adoption be rendered necessary by subsequent events.

The return of our chargé d'affaires is attended with public notices of naval preparations on
the part of France destined for our seas. Of the cause and intent of these armaments I have
no authentic information, nor any other means of judging except such as are common to yourselves
and to the public; but whatever may be their object, we are not at liberty to regard them as
unconnected with the measures which hostile movements on the part of France may compel us to
pursue. They at least deserve to be met by adequate preparation on our part, and I therefore
strongly urge large and speedy appropriations for the increase of the Navy and the completion
of our coast defenses.

If this array of military force be really designed to affect the action of the Government and
people of the United States on the questions now pending between the two nations, then indeed
would it be dishonorable to pause a moment on the alternative which such a state of things
would present to us. Come what may, the explanation which France demands can never be accorded,
and no armament, however powerful and imposing, at a distance or on our coast, will, I trust,
deter us from discharging the high duties which we owe to our constituents, our national character,
and to the world.

The House of Representatives at the close of the last session of Congress unanimously resolved
that the treaty of the 4th of July, 1831, should be maintained and its execution insisted on
by the United States. It is due to the welfare of the human race not less than to our own interests
and honor that this resolution should at all hazards be adhered to. If after so signal an example
as that given by the American people during their long-protracted difficulties with France
of forbearance under accumulated wrongs and of generous confidence in her ultimate return to
justice she shall now be permitted to withhold from us the tardy and imperfect indemnification
which after years of remonstrance and discussion had at length been solemnly agreed on by the
treaty of 1831 and to set at naught the obligations it imposes, the United States will not
be the only sufferers. The efforts of humanity and religion to substitute the appeals of justice
and the arbitrament of reason for the coercive measures usually resorted to by injured nations
will receive little encouragement from such an issue. By the selection and enforcement of such
lawful and expedient measures as may be necessary to prevent a result so injurious to ourselves
and so fatal to the hopes of the philanthropist we shall therefore not only preserve the pecuniary
interests of our citizens, the independence of our Government, and the honor of our country,
but do much, it may be hoped, to vindicate the faith of treaties and to promote the general
interests of peace, civilization, and improvement.

ANDREW JACKSON.

No. 1.

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Barton.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, June 28, 1835.

THOMAS P. BARTON, Esq., etc.

SIR: Mr. Livingston arrived here the day before yesterday. By the mail of yesterday your letter
of the 7th of May, with a copy of Mr. Livingston's last note to the Duke de Broglie, was received.

After an attentive examination of Mr. Livingston's correspondence with this Department and
the Government of France, elucidated by his verbal explanations, the President has directed
me to say to you that the Messrs. de Rothschild have been authorized by the Treasury Department
to receive the money due under the treaty with France. Of this authority they will be directed
to give notice to the French Government without demanding payment. For yourself, you will,
if the bill of indemnity is rejected, follow Mr. Livingston to the United States. If the money
is placed at the disposal of the King, conditionally, by the legislature of France, you will
await further orders from the United States, but maintain a guarded silence on the subject
of the indemnity. If approached by the Government of France, directly or indirectly, you will
hear what is said without reply, state what has occurred in full to the Department, and await
its instructions. It is the desire of the President that you will make not even a reference
to the subject of the treaty in your intercourse with the French Government until the course
intended to be pursued is definitely explained to the United States. Whatever may be said to
the Messrs. de Rothschild it will be their duty to report to you as well as to the Treasury
Department, and whenever they converse with you they must be reminded that it is expected that
they will wait for express notice from the Government of France that it is ready to pay before
an application for payment is made.

The course adopted by Mr. Livingston has been fully approved, and the hope is indulged that
his representations have had their just influence on the counsels of the King of France. However
that may be, the President's determination is that the terms upon which the two Governments
are to stand toward each other shall be regulated so far as his constitutional power extends
by France.

A packet from the Treasury, addressed to the Messrs. de Rothschild, and containing the instructions
of the Secretary, accompanied by a special power appointing them the agents of the United States
to receive the payments due under the treaty of 1831, is forwarded herewith. The copy of a
letter from this Department to M. Pageot is also inclosed for your perusal.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,

JOHN FORSYTH.

No. 2.

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Barton.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, September 14, 1835.

THOMAS P. BARTON, Esq., etc.

SIR: So much time will have elapsed before this dispatch can reach you, since the passage of
the law by the French Chambers placing at the disposition of the King the funds to fulfill
the treaty with the United States, that it is presumed the intention of the French Government
will have been by that period disclosed. It is proper therefore, in the opinion of the President,
that you should receive your last instructions in relation to it. It has always been his intention
that the legation of the United States should leave France if the treaty were not fulfilled.
You have been suffered to remain after the departure of Mr. Livingston under the expectation
that the Government of France would find in all that has occurred its obligation to proceed
forthwith to the fulfillment of it as soon as funds were placed in its hands. If this expectation
is disappointed, you must ask for your passports and return to the United States. If no movement
has been made on the part of France and no intimation given to you or to the banker of the
United States who is the authorized agent of the Treasury to receive the installments due of
the time that payment will be made, you are instructed to call upon the Duke de Broglie and
request to be informed what are the intentions of the Government in relation to it, stating
that you do so by orders of your Government and with a view to regulate your conduct by the
information you may receive from him. In the present agitated state of France it is the particular
desire of the President that your application should be made in the most conciliatory tone
and your interview with the Duke marked by expressions, as coming from your Government, of
great personal respect for that minister and of an anxious desire for the safety of the King
of France. If the Duke should inform you that the money is to be paid on any fixed day, you
will remain in France; otherwise you will apply for your passports, and state the reason to
be that the treaty of indemnity has not been executed by France.

The President especially directs that you should comply with these instructions so early that
the result may be known here before the meeting of Congress, which takes place on the 7th of
December next.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,

JOHN FORSYTH.

No. 3.

Mr. Barton to the Duke de Broglie.

[Translation.]

D.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

Paris, October 24, 1835.

His Excellency the DUKE DE BROGLIE,

Minister of Foreign Affairs, etc.

MONSIEUR LE DUC: Having executed to the letter the last instructions of my Government in the
interview which I had the honor to have with your excellency on the 20th of this month, in
order further to comply with those instructions I am about to return to the United States.
Before leaving France, however, I have thought that it might not be altogether useless to address
your excellency and to submit to you the conversation which then took place between us, word
for word, as I understood it. In pursuing this course I am prompted by a double motive: First,
by a sincere desire to avoid even the slightest misunderstanding as to the precise meaning
of any expressions used on either part, and also with a view, in presenting myself to my Government,
to furnish indisputable proof of my fidelity in executing the instructions with which I had
the honor to be charged. This last motive, Monsieur le Duc, does not interest you personally,
but the first, I am sure, will not appear without importance in your eyes.

Having said that I was instructed to employ both language and manner the most conciliatory,
I begged you to believe, should anything appear to you not to partake of that character, that
the fault must be attributed to me alone, and not to my Government, as in that case I should
be certain that I neither represented its disposition nor faithfully obeyed its orders.

I began the conversation by informing you that I had requested an interview by order of my
Government, and that on the result of that interview would depend my future movements. I said
that I was ordered to convey to the French Government assurances of the very lively satisfaction
felt by the President on receiving the news and confirmation of the King's safety, and that
I was further instructed by the Secretary of State to assure you personally of his high consideration.
After an obliging answer of your excellency I had the honor to submit the following question:

"I am instructed by my Government to inquire of your excellency what are the intentions of
His Majesty's Government in relation to the funds voted by the Chambers."

And I understood you to make the following answer:

"Having written a dispatch to His Majesty's chargé d'affaires at Washington, with instructions
to communicate it to Mr. Forsyth, and M. Pageot having read it to Mr. Forsyth, I have nothing
to say in addition to that dispatch."

I said:

"I am also instructed to inquire of your excellency whether His Majesty's Government is ready
to pay those funds."

And you returned this answer:

"Yes, in the terms of the dispatch."

I added:

"I am instructed to ask another question: Will His Majesty's Government name any fixed determined
period when they will be disposed to pay those funds?"

To this question the following was your excellency's answer, as I understood it:

"To-morrow, if necessary. When the Government of the United States shall by a written official
communication have expressed its regret at the misunderstanding which has taken place between
the two Governments, assuring us that this misunderstanding was founded on an error--that it
did not intend to call in question the good faith of His Majesty's Government--the funds are
there; we are ready to pay. In the dispatch to M. Pageot we gave the views of our Government
on this question. Mr. Forsyth not having thought proper to accept a copy of that dispatch,
and having said that the Government of the United States could not receive a communication
in such a form, I have nothing to add. I am forced to retrench myself behind that dispatch.

To your excellency's offer to communicate to me the dispatch to M. Pageot I replied that as
my instructions had no reference to that question I did not think myself authorized to discuss it.

After some minutes I rose and said:

"In a short time I shall have the honor of writing to your excellency."

You answered:

"I shall at all times receive with pleasure any communication addressed to me on the part of
the Government of the United States."

And our conversation ended.

Such, Monsieur le Duc, as far as my memory serves me, are the literal expressions employed
by both of us. Should you discover any inaccuracies in the relation which I have the honor
to submit to you, it will give me pleasure, as it will be my duty, to correct them. If, on
the contrary, this relation should appear to you in every respect conformable to the truth,
I take the liberty of claiming from your kindness a confirmation of it, for the reasons which
I have already, I believe, sufficiently explained.

I eagerly avail myself of this occasion, Monsieur le Duc, to renew the assurances of very high
consideration with which I have the honor to be, your excellency's most obedient, humble servant,

THOS. P. BARTON.

No. 4.

The Duke de Broglie to Mr. Barton.

[Translation.]

E.

PARIS, October 26, 1835.

T.P. BARTON,

Chargé de Affaires of the United States.

SIR: I have received the letter which you did me the honor to address to me on the 24th of
this month.

You are desirous to give your Government a faithful account of the conversation which you had
with me on the 20th. While communicating to me a statement of that conversation you request
me to indicate the involuntary errors which I may remark in it. I appreciate the motives which
influence you and the importance which you attach to the exactness of this statement, and I
therefore hasten to point out three errors which have found their way into your report, acknowledging
at the same time its perfect conformity on all other points with the explanations interchanged
between us. On refusing the copy offered to him by that chargé d'affaires Mr. Forsyth gave
as the only reason that it was a document of which he could make no use, and that was the phrase
repeated by me.

Mr. Forsyth made no objection to the form which I had adopted to communicate to the Federal
Government the views of the King's Government; in fact, not only is there nothing unusual in
that form, not only is it employed in the intercourse between one government and another whenever
there is a desire to avoid the irritation which might involuntarily arise from an exchange
of contradictory notes in a direct controversy, but reflection on the circumstances and the
respective positions of the two countries will clearly show that it was chosen precisely in
a spirit of conciliation and regard for the Federal Government. This last error is, however,
of so little importance that I hesitated to notice it. Receive, sir, the assurances of my high
consideration.

V. BROGLIE.

No. 5.

Mr. Barton to the Duke de Broglie. I am instructed to give as a reason for my departure the
nonexecution on the part of His Majesty's Government of the convention of July 4, 1831.

No. 6.

The Duke de Broglie to Mr. Barton.

[Translation.]

PARIS, November 8, 1835.

Mr. BARTON,

Charge d'Affaires of the United States of America.

SIR: Having taken His Majesty's orders with regard to your communication of the 6th instant,
I have the honor to send you herewith the passports which you requested of me. As to the reasons
which you have been charged to advance in explanation of your departure, I have nothing to
say (Je n'ai point á m'y arrêter). The Government of the United States, sir, knows that upon
itself depends henceforward the execution of the treaty of July 4, 1831.

Accept, sir, the assurance of my high consideration.

V. BROGLIE.

No. 7.

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Pageot.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, June 29, 1835.

M. PAGEOT,

Chargé d'Affaires, etc.

SIR: I have the honor to acquaint you, for the information of your Government, that the Secretary
of the Treasury has, in conformity with the provisions of the act of Congress of 13th July,
1832, designated the Messrs. de Rothschild Brothers, of Paris, as agents to receive the payments
from time to time due to this Government under the stipulations of the convention of 4th July,
1831, between the United States and His Majesty the King of the French, and that the President
has granted a special power to the said Messrs. de Rothschild Brothers, authorizing and empowering
them, upon the due receipt of the same, to give the necessary acquittances to the French Government,
according to the provisions of the convention referred to.

The power given to the Messrs. de Rothschild will be presented by them whenever the French
Government is ready to make the payments.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,

JOHN FORSYTH.

No. 8.

Mr. Pageot to Mr. Forsyth.

[Translation.]

WASHINGTON, June 29, 1835.

Hon. Mr. FORSYTH,

Secretary of State.

SIR: I have received the letter which you did me the honor to address to me this day, and by
which you communicate to me, for the information of my Government, that the Secretary of the
Treasury, in virtue of the act of Congress of July 13, 1832, has appointed Messrs. de Rothschild
Brothers, at Paris, agents for receiving as they become due the several payments of the sum
stipulated as indemnification by the convention concluded on the 4th of July, 1831, between
His Majesty the King of the French and the United States of America.

I lost no time, sir, in transmitting this communication to my Government, and I embrace this
opportunity to offer you the assurance of the high consideration with which I have the honor
to be, your most humble and obedient servant,

A. PAGEOT.

No. 9.

Mr. Pageot to Mr. Forsyth.

[Translation.]

WASHINGTON, December 1, 1835. The object of this communication was to make known to the Cabinet
of Washington, in a form often employed, the point of view from which the King's Government
regarded the difficulties between the two countries, and to indicate the means by which, in
its opinion, they might be terminated in a manner honorable to both Governments. I was also
authorized to allow you, in case you should desire it, to take a copy of this dispatch, but,
contrary to the expectation which diplomatic usages in such cases permitted me to entertain,
you thought proper to refuse to request it.

I regretted this resolution of yours, sir, at the time, because, in the first place, it appeared
to be at variance with (s' écarter de) that conciliatory spirit which so particularly characterized
the communication just made to you, and, next, as it seemed in a manner to deprive the Cabinet
of Washington of the means of knowing in their full extent the views of the King's Government,
of which an attentive examination of the Duke de Broglie's letter could alone have enabled
it to form a just estimate. These regrets, sir, have not been diminished, and at the moment
when the President is about to communicate to Congress the state of the relations between France
and the United States I consider it useful and necessary for the interests of all to endeavor
to place him in possession of all the facts which may afford him the means of giving an exact
account of the real dispositions and views of the King's Government on the subject of the existing
difficulties.

With this intention, and from a desire to neglect nothing which, by offering to the American
Government another opportunity of making itself acquainted minutely with the highly conciliatory
sentiments of His Majesty's Government, may contribute to restore good understanding between
the Cabinets of Paris and Washington, I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the Duke
de Broglie's dispatch and to request you to place it under the eye of the President.

No. 10.

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Pageot.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, December 3, 1835.

M. PAGEOT,

Chargé d'Affaires, etc.

SIR: I had yesterday the honor to receive your note of the 1st instant, with the accompanying
paper, purporting to be a copy of a letter addressed under date of the 17th of June last by
His Excellency the Duke de Broglie, minister of foreign affairs of France, to yourself.

After referring to what occurred in our interview of the 11th September in regard to the original
letter, and expressing your regrets at the course I then felt it my duty to take, you request
me to place the copy inclosed in your letter under the eye of the President.

In allowing you during that interview to read to me the Duke de Broglie's dispatch, which I
cheerfully did, you were enabled to avail yourself of that informal mode of apprising this
Department of the views of your Government in the full extent authorized by diplomatic usage.
The question whether or not I should ask a copy of that dispatch was of course left, as it
should have been, by your Government exclusively to my discretion. My reasons for not making
that request were frankly stated to you, founded on a conviction that in the existing state
of the relations between the two countries the President would think it most proper that every
communication upon the subject in difference between them designed to influence his conduct
should, before it was submitted to his consideration, be made to assume the official form belonging
to a direct communication from one government to another by which alone he could be enabled
to cause a suitable reply to be given to it and to submit it, should such a step become necessary,
to his associates in the Government. I had also the honor at the same time to assure you that
any direct communication from yourself as the representative of the King's Government to me,
embracing the contents of this dispatch or any other matter you might be authorized to communicate
in the accustomed mode, would be laid without delay before the President, and would undoubtedly
receive from him an early and just consideration.

It can not have escaped your reflections that my duty required that the circumstances of the
interview between us should be reported to the President, and that the discovery of any error
on my part in representing his views of the course proper to be pursued on that occasion would
without fail have been promptly communicated to you. That duty was performed. The substance
of our interview and the reasons by which my course in it had been guided were immediately
communicated to and entirely approved by him. I could not, therefore, have anticipated that
after so long a period had elapsed, and without any change in the condition of affairs, you
should have regarded it as useful or proper to revive the subject at the time and in the form
you have seen fit to adopt. Cordially reciprocating, however, the conciliatory sentiments expressed
in your note, and in deference to your request, I have again consulted the President on the
subject, and am instructed to inform you that the opinion expressed by me in the interview
between us, and subsequently confirmed by him, remains unchanged, and I therefore respectfully
restore to you the copy of the Duke de Broglie's letter, as I can not make the use of it which
you desired.

I am also instructed to say that the President entertains a decided conviction that a departure
in the present case from the ordinary and accustomed method of international communication
is calculated to increase rather than to diminish the difficulties unhappily existing between
France and the United States, and that its observance in their future intercourse will be most
likely to bring about the amicable adjustment of those difficulties on terms honorable to both
parties. Such a result is sincerely desired by him, and he will omit nothing consistent with
the faithful discharge of his duties to the United States by which it may be promoted. In this
spirit I am directed by him to repeat to you the assurance made in our interview in September
last, that any official communication you may think proper to address to this Government will
promptly receive such consideration as may be due to its contents and to the interests involved
in the subject to which it may refer.

As the inclosed paper is not considered the subject of reply, you will allow me to add, for
the purpose of preventing any misconception in this respect, that my silence in regard to its
contents is not to be construed as admitting the accuracy of any of the statements or reasonings
contained in it.

I have the honor to renew, etc.

JOHN FORSYTH.

No. 11.

Mr. Pageot to Mr. Forsyth.

[Translation.]

WASHINGTON, December 5, 1835. With it you return to me the copy of a dispatch which I had transmitted
to you two days before, and the original of which was addressed to me on the 17th of June last
by his excellency the minister of foreign affairs.

I will not seek, sir, to disguise from you the astonishment produced in me by the return of
a document so very important in the present state of the relations between the two countries;
neither will I undertake to reply to the reasons on which this determination of yours is based.
My intention in communicating this document to you in a form not only sanctioned by the diplomatic
usages of all nations and all ages, but also the most direct which I could possibly have chosen,
was to make known the real dispositions of my Government to the President of the United States,
and through him to Congress and the American people, conceiving that in the existing situation
of the two countries it was essential that each Government should fully comprehend the intentions
of the other. This consideration appeared to me paramount to all others. You have judged otherwise,
sir, and you have thought that whatever might be the importance of a communication it was proper
before receiving it to examine whether the form in which it came to you were strictly accordant
with the usages necessary, in your opinion, to be observed in diplomatic transactions with
the Government of the Republic. I will not insist further. I have fulfilled all the duties
which appeared to be prescribed for me by the spirit of reconciliation, in conjunction with
the respect due by me to all communications from my Government, and nothing more remains for
me than to express my deep regret that the misunderstanding between the two Governments, already
so serious, should be kept up, not by weighty difficulties which involve the interests and
the dignity of the two countries, but by questions of form as uncertain in their principles
as doubtful in their application.

I have the honor to renew to you, sir, the assurances of my high consideration.

A. PAGEOT.

No. 12.

Mr. Pageot to Mr. Forsyth.

[Translation.]

WASHINGTON, January 2, 1836. I shall therefore immediately begin the preparations for my return
to France; but in the meantime I think proper to claim the protection of the Federal Government
during the period which I may consider it necessary to remain in the United States.

I have the honor to be, with the most distinguished consideration, sir, your most humble and
obedient servant,

A. PAGEOT.

No. 13.

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Pageot.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, January 2, 1836.

M. ALPHONSE PAGEOT, etc.

SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge your note of this day's date, in which you announce that
you have the orders of your Government, given in consequence of the recall of Mr. Barton, to
lay aside the character of chargé d'affaires of the King of France near the Government of the
United States. The protection of the Federal Government is due and will of course be extended
to you during the time necessary for your preparations to return to France.

I am, sir, with great consideration, your obedient servant,

JOHN FORSYTH.

C.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,

Paris, January 29, 1835.

SIR: Having already had occasion to acknowledge the receipt of your excellency's letter of
the 13th instant, and to answer that part of it which most urgently required my attention,
I proceed to a consideration of the other matters which it contains. I shall do this with a
sincere desire to avoid everything that may excite irritation or increase difficulties which
already unfortunately exist. Guided by this disposition, I shall confine myself to an examination
of your note, considered only as an exposition of the causes which His Majesty's Government
thinks it has to complain of in the message sent by the President of the United States to Congress
at the opening of its present session.

Your excellency begins by observing that nothing could have prepared His Majesty's Government
for the impressions made upon it by the President's message, and that if the complaints he
makes were as just as you think them unfounded, still you would have reason to be astonished
at receiving the first communication of them in such a form. If His Majesty's Government was
not prepared to receive complaints on the part of the United States for nonexecution of the
treaty, everything I have said and written since I have had the honor of communicating with
your excellency and your predecessors in office must have been misunderstood or forgotten.
I can scarcely suppose the first, for if my whole correspondence is referred to and my verbal
representations recollected they will be found in the most unequivocal language to express
an extreme solicitude for the execution of the treaty, a deep disappointment at the several
delays which have intervened, and emphatically the necessity which the President would be under
of laying the matter before Congress at the time when in fact he has done so if before that
period he did not receive notice that the law had passed for giving effect to the treaty. To
urge the obligation of the treaty, to prepare His Majesty's Government for the serious consequences
that must result from its breach or an unnecessary delay in executing it, was my duty, and
it has been faithfully and unremittingly executed. To my own official representation on the
26th I added on the 29th July last the precise instructions I had received, to inform His Majesty's
Government that "the President could not avoid laying before Congress on the 1st of December
a full statement of the position of affairs on this interesting subject, or permit the session
to end, as it must do on the 3d March, without recommending such measures as the justice and
the honor of the country may require."

In this alone, then, there was sufficient, independently of my numerous applications and remonstrances,
to prepare His Majesty's Government for the just complaints of the United States and for the
"impression" they ought to produce, as well as for the "mode" in which they were communicated,
a mode clearly pointed out in the passage I have quoted from my note of the 29th of July--that
is to say, by the annual message from the President to Congress, which, as I have already had
occasion to observe, His Majesty's ministers have erroneously considered as addressed directly
to them, and, viewing it in that light, have arraigned this document as containing groundless
complaints, couched in language not called for by the occasion, and offering for consideration
means of redress offensive to the dignity of France. I shall endeavor by a plain exposition
of facts to repel those charges. I shall examine them with the freedom the occasion requires,
but, suppressing the feelings which some parts of your excellency's letter naturally excite,
will, as far as possible, avoid all those topics for recrimination which press upon my mind.
The observation I am about to make will not be deemed a departure from this rule, because it
is intended to convey information which seems to have been wanted by His Majesty's minister
when on a late occasion he presented a law to the Chamber of Deputies. It is proper, therefore,
to state that although the military title of general was gloriously acquired by the present
head of the American Government, he is not in official language designated as General Jackson,
but as "the President of the United States," and that his communication was made in that character.

I proceed now to the examination of that portion of your excellency's letter which attempts
to show that the complaints set forth in the President's message are groundless.

It begins by assuming as a principle of argument that after the Chamber of Deputies had rejected
the law and His Majesty's Government had promised to present it anew the United States had
by receiving that promise given up all right to complain of any anterior delays. I have vainly
endeavored, sir, to find any rule of reasoning by which this argument can be supported. It
would undoubtedly be much easier to strike off from the case the delays of two years in proposing
the law than to justify them.

It is true that the United States, with a moderation and forbearance for which they receive
no credit, waited two years, almost without complaint, for the performance of a treaty which
engaged the faith of the French nation to pay a just indemnity, for which they had already
waited more than twenty years. It is true that His Majesty's Government offered solemn assurances
that as soon as the constitution of the country would permit a new attempt would be made to
redeem the national pledge given by the treaty. It is true also that the President of the United
States gave credit to those assurances; but it is also true--and your excellency seems to lose
sight of that important uncontested fact--that formal notice was given that the performance
of those promises would be expected according to their letter, and that he could delay no longer
than the 1st of December the execution of a duty which those assurances had induced him to
postpone. Whatever reasons His Majesty's Government had for not complying with Mr. Sérurier's
engagement, or however they may have interpreted it, the President could not be precluded from
considering the whole case as open and adding to his statement the wrongs occasioned by the
delays anterior to the vote of rejection. Those delays are still unaccounted for, and are rendered
more questionable by the preference given to another treaty, although subsequently made, for
the guarantee of the Greek loan.

Confining your observations to this second period, you say that the reproaches which the President
thinks himself authorized in making to France may be comprised in the following words:

"The Government of the King had promised to present the treaty of July anew to the Chambers
as soon as they could be assembled; but they have been assembled on the 31st of July of the
last year and the treaty has not yet been presented."

Stating this as the whole of the complaint, you proceed, sir, in your endeavor to refute it.

I am obliged, reluctantly, here to make use of arguments which in the course of this discussion
have been often repeated, but which seem to have made no impression on His Majesty's Government.
I am obliged, in repelling the reproaches addressed to the President, to bring to your recollection
the terms of the promise on which he relied, the circumstances attending it, and the object
for which it was given. These must be fully understood and fully waived before the question
between us can be resolved.

The circumstances under which Mr. Sérurier's note was written are material in considering its
true import. The payment stipulated by a treaty duly ratified on both sides had just been formally
refused by a vote of the Chamber of Deputies. More than two years had passed since it had been
proclaimed as the law of the land in the United States, and ever since the articles favorable
to France had been in constant operation. Notice of this refusal had some time before been
received by the President. It would have been his duty, had nothing else occurred, to communicate
to Congress this event, so unexpected and so injurious to the interest of the country. One
circumstance prevented the performance of this duty and justified the omission. The notice
of the rejection was accompanied by information that the minister of France was instructed
to make explanations and engagements on the subject, and that a ship of war would be dispatched
with his instructions. The President had waited a month for the arrival of this ship. An unusually
long session of Congress still afforded an opportunity for making the communication, even after
her arrival. If made it would undoubtedly have produced consequences the nature of which may
be imagined by considering the events that have since occurred. It was necessary, then, to
prevent an interruption of the friendly relations between the two countries, that this communication
should be postponed until the subsequent session of Congress; longer than that it was well
known that it could not be deferred. This was clearly and explicitly stated in a conference
between Mr. Sérurier and the Secretary of State of the United States, in which the former gave
the promise in question. But the President desired to have the engagement in a written and
official form (and as Mr. Sérurier expresses it in his letter), "pour des causes prises dans
les nécessités de votre Gouvernement" What governmental necessity does he allude to? Clearly
that which obliged the President to communicate these engagements to Congress at the next session.

Here, then, we have a stipulation made under special orders, sent out by a ship dispatched
for that express purpose, communicated first verbally in an official conference, afterwards
reduced to writing and delivered to the proper officers, for the double purpose of justifying
the President for not making an immediate communication at their then session and also to serve
as a pledge which he might exhibit if unredeemed at their next. These objects are well stated
by Mr. Sérurier to be "that the Government of the Republic may avoid, with a providential solicitude,
in this unsettled state of things all that may become a cause of new irritation between the
two countries, endanger the treaty, and raise obstacles that may become insurmountable to the
views of conciliation and harmony which animate the councils of the King." It was, then, to
avoid a communication to Congress, which Mr. Sérurier saw would endanger the peace of the two
countries, that this engagement was made. Surely, then, every word of a stipulation made under
such circumstances and for such important purposes must have been duly considered and its import
properly weighed, first by the cabinet who directed, afterwards by the minister who delivered
and the Government which received it.

What, then, was this engagement? First, that the Government of the King will use every legal
and constitutional effort which its persevering persuasion of the justice and advantages of
the treaty authorize the United States to expect from it. "Son intention est" (I quote literally),
"en outre" (that is, besides using those endeavors above mentioned), "de faire tout ce que
not re constitution permet pour rapprocher autant que possible l'époque de la presentation
nouvelle de la loi rejettée." Your excellency can not fail to have observed two distinct parts
in this engagement--one relating to the endeavors the ministry promise to make in order to
induce the Chambers to pass the law, for the success of which they could not answer; another
relating to the time of presentation of the law, a matter which depended on them alone, restricted
only by constitutional forms.

The promise on this point, then, was precise, and could not be misunderstood. Whatever the
constitution of France permitted, the Government of France promised to do in order to hasten
the presentation of the law. What was the cause of this desire to bring the business before
the Chambers at an early day? No one can doubt it who knows the situation of the two countries,
still less anyone who has read the correspondence. It was to enable the President to make those
statements to the next Congress which, relying on the engagements of the French minister, he
had omitted to make to this. For the President's satisfaction, and for his justification too,
an engagement was offered and accepted for the performance of an act which depended on His
Majesty's Government alone. This engagement was couched in the unequivocal terms I have literally
quoted.

This, sir, is not all. That there might be no misunderstanding on the subject, this promise,
with the sense in which it was understood, the important object for which it was given, and
the serious consequences that might attend a failure to comply with it, were urged in conversation,
and repeated in my official letters, particularly those of the 26th and 29th of July and 3d
and 9th of August last, in which its performance was strongly pressed.

The answers to these letters left no hope that the question would be submitted to the Chambers
in time to have the result known before the adjournment of Congress, and by the refusal to
hasten the convocation of the Chambers before the last of December showed unequivocally that,
so far from taking all measures permitted by the constitution to hasten the period of presenting
the law, it was to be left to the most remote period of the ordinary course of legislation.

This decision of His Majesty's Government, contained in your excellency's note to me of the
7th August, was duly transmitted to the President, and it naturally produced upon his mind
the impressions which I anticipated in my letters to your excellency that it would produce.
He saw with the deepest regret that a positive assurance for convening the Chambers as soon
as the constitution would permit was construed to mean only a disposition to do so, and that
this disposition had yielded to objections which he could not think of sufficient force to
justify a delay even if there had intervened no promise, especially as the serious consequences
of that delay had been earnestly and repeatedly brought to the consideration of His Majesty's
Government. In fact, sir, what were those objections? I do not speak of those which were made
to presenting the law in the session of July last, for although no constitutional impediment
offered itself, yet it was not strongly insisted on, because an early session in the autumn,
would have the same effect; and the President, for the same reason, says that it might have
been overlooked if an early call of the Chambers had been made. They are the objections to
this call, then, which immediately demand our attention. What, in fact, were they? None derived
from the constitutional charter have been or could have been asserted. What, then, were they?
Your excellency's letter of the 3d of August to me contains none but this: "His Majesty's Government
finds it impossible to make any positive engagement on that point." In that of the 7th of August
there are two reasons assigned: First, the general inconvenience to the members. This the President
could surely not think of alleging to Congress as a sufficient reason for omitting to lay the
matter before them. The next, I confess, has a little more weight, and might have excused a
delay if the assurance given by Mr. Sérurier had been, as your excellency construes it, merely
of a disposition to hasten the presentation of the law. If the engagement had amounted to no
more than this, and His Majesty's ministers thought that an early call would endanger the passage
of the law, it might possibly justify them in not making it. But the President, who relied
on the promise he had received, who in consequence of it had deferred the performance of an
important duty; the President, who had given timely and official notice that this duty must
be performed at the opening of the next Congress; the President, who could see no greater prospect
of the passage of the law in a winter than in an autumnal session--how was he to justify himself
and redeem the pledge he had made to his country? He did it in the way he always does--by a
strict performance.

From this detail your excellency will, I hope, see that the President's causes of complaint
can not, as you suppose, be confined within the narrow limit you have assigned to them. The
failure to present the law in the session of July was not the only, nor even the principal,
point in which he thought the engagement of Mr. Sérurier uncomplied with; for although he saw
no reason for the omission that could be called a constitutional one, yet he expressly says
that might have been overlooked. He always (it can not too often be repeated) looked to the
promise of Mr. Sérurier as it was given at Washington, not as it was interpreted at Paris,
and he had a right to believe that as on previous occasions the Legislature had, in the years
1819, 1822, 1825, and 1830, held their sessions for the transaction of the ordinary business
in the months of July and August, he had a right, I say, to believe that there was no insurmountable
objection to the consideration of this extraordinary case, enforced by a positive promise.
Yet, as I have remarked, he did not make this his principal cause of complaint; it was the
omission to call the Chambers at an earlier period than the very end of the year.

On this head your excellency is pleased to observe that the same reasons, drawn from the usual
course of administration, which rendered the presentation of the law in the session of July
impossible applied with nearly the same force to a call before the end of the year; and you
appeal to the President's knowledge of the "fixed principles of a constitutional system" to
prove that the administration under such a government is subject to regular and permanent forms,
"from which no special interest, however important, should induce it to deviate." For this
branch of the argument it unfortunately happens that no regular form of administration, no
fixed principle, no usage whatever, would have opposed a call of the Chambers at an early day,
and the rule which your excellency states would not be broken "in favor of any interest, however
important," has actually been made to yield to one of domestic occurrence. The Chambers have
just been convened before the period which was declared to be the soonest at which they could
possibly meet. Your excellency will also excuse me for remarking that since the first institution
of the Chambers, in 1814, there have been convocations for every month of the year, without
exception, which I will take the liberty of bringing to your recollection by enumerating the
different dates. The Chambers were summoned for the month of January in the years 1823, 1826,
and 1829; for February, in the years 1827 and 1829; for March, in 1815, 1824, and 1830; for
April, in 1833; for May, in 1814; for June, in 1815, 1822, and 1825; for July, in 1834; for
August, in 1830 and 1831; for September, in 1815; for October, in 1816; for November, in 1817,
1818, 1819, 1821, and 1832; and for December, in 1820, 1824, 1826, and 1833. It is, then, clear
to demonstration that neither constitutional impediment nor stern, inflexible usage prevented
such a call of the Chambers as would have complied with the letter of Mr. Sérurier's engagement.
Since I have alluded to the actual meeting of the Chambers on the 1st of December, it is but
candid to allow that even this period would not have enabled the President to have attained
one of his objects--the presenting of the result of their deliberations to Congress in his
opening message. But even that slight concession, if it had been made to my unceasing applications,
might have given an opportunity of conveying their decision to Congress before the 4th of March,
when they must adjourn, because, had that day been then determined on, everything would have
been ready to lay before the Chambers on the opening of the session; but a meeting a month
or six weeks earlier would have given ample time for deliberation and decision in season to
have it known at Washington on the 1st of December.

The necessity of giving time to the new members to inform themselves of the nature of the question
and the old ones to recover from the impression which erroneous statements had made upon their
minds I understand to be the remaining motive of His Majesty's ministers for delaying the meeting;
but this was a precaution which, relying on the plain obligation of the treaty, the President
could not appreciate, and he must, moreover, have thought that if a long discussion was necessary
to understand the merits of the question it was an additional reason for hastening the meeting
where those merits were to be discussed. The delay that occurred between the meeting of the
Chambers and the 1st of January need not have entered into the discussion, because, not long
known at Washington, it could not have had any influence on the message. There is a slight
error in this part of your excellency's letter; the delay was not made at my request, but was
fully approved of, for the reasons which I have stated. Could he have said less in this branch
of his message? If he alluded to the subject at all, he was obliged to detail the circumstances
of the case. It is not pretended that this is not done with fidelity as to facts. The ratification
of the treaty, its effect in pledging the faith of the nation, the fidelity with which the
United States have executed it, the delay that intervened before it was brought before the
Chambers, their rejection of the law, the assurances made by Mr. Sérurier, the forbearance
of the President to make a communication to Congress in consequence of those assurances, and
the adjournment of the question by His Majesty's Government to the end of the year--none of
these have ever been denied, and all this the President was obliged to bring before Congress
if, as I have said, he spoke on the subject. But he was obliged by a solemn duty to speak of
it, and he had given timely and repeated notice of this obligation. The propositions which
he submitted to Congress in consequence of those facts were a part of his duty. They were,
as I have stated, exclusively addressed to that body, and in offering them he felt and expressed
a proper regret, and, doing justice to the character and high feeling of the French nation,
he explicitly disavowed any intention of influencing it by a menace.

I have no mission, sir, to offer any modification of the President's communication to Congress,
and I beg that what I have said may be considered with the reserve that I do not acknowledge
any right to demand or any obligation to give explanations of a document of that nature. But
the relations which previously existed between the two countries, a desire that no unnecessary
misunderstanding should interrupt them, and the tenor of your excellency's letter (evidently
written under excited feeling) all convinced me that it was not incompatible with self-respect
and the dignity of my country to enter into the detail I have done. The same reasons induced
me to add that the idea erroneously entertained that an injurious menace is contained in the
message has prevented your excellency from giving a proper attention to its language. A cooler
examination will show that although the President was obliged, as I have demonstrated, to state
to Congress the engagements which had been made, and that in his opinion they had not been
complied with, yet in a communication not addressed to His Majesty's Government not a disrespectful
term is employed, nor a phrase that his own sense of propriety, as well as the regard which
one nation owes to another, would induce him to disavow. On the contrary, expressions of sincere
regret that circumstances obliged him to complain of acts that disturbed the harmony he wished
to preserve with a nation and Government to the high characters of which he did ample justice.

An honorable susceptibility to everything that may in the remotest degree affect the honor
of the country is a national sentiment in France; but you will allow, sir, that it is carried
too far when it becomes impatient of just complaint, when it will allow none of its acts to
be arraigned and considers as an offense a simple and correct examination of injuries received
and as an insult a deliberation on the means of redress. If it is forbidden, under the penalties
of giving just cause of offense, for the different branches of a foreign government to consult
together on the nature of wrongs it has received and review the several remedies which the
law of nations present and circumstances justify, then no such consultation can take place
in a government like that of the United States, where all the proceedings are public, without
at once incurring the risk of war, which it would be the very object of that consultation to avoid.

The measures announced in the close of your letter, as well as the correspondence that it has
occasioned between us, have been transmitted to my Government, and I wait the instructions
which that communication will produce.

I pray your excellency to receive the renewed assurance of the high consideration with which
I have the honor to be, your most obedient, humble servant,

EDW. LIVINGSTON.

[Indorsement.]

This letter was referred to in my message of the 7th of December last, and ought to have been
then transmitted with that of the 25th of April, but by some oversight it was omitted.

A.J.

WASHINGTON, January 18, 1836. The papers relative to the letter of the late minister of France
have been added to those called for, that the subject may be fully understood.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, January 13, 1836.

The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:

The Secretary of State has the honor to lay before the President a copy of a report made to
him in June last, and of a letter addressed to this Department by the late minister of the
Government of France, with the correspondence connected with that communication, which, together
with a late correspondence between the Secretary of State and the French chargé d'affaires
and a recent correspondence between the chargé d'affaires of the United States at Paris and
the Duke de Broglie, already transmitted to the President to be communicated to Congress with
his special message relative thereto, are the only papers in the Department of State supposed
to be called for by the resolutions of the Senate of the 12th instant.

It will be seen by the correspondence with the chargé d'affaires of France that a dispatch
to him from the Duke de Broglie was read to the Secretary at the Department in September last.
It concluded with an authority to permit a copy to be taken if it was desired. That dispatch
being an argumentative answer to the last letter of Mr. Livingston to the French Government,
and in affirmance of the right of France to expect explanations of the message of the President,
which France had been distinctly and timely informed could not be given without a disregard
by the Chief Magistrate of his constitutional obligations, no desire was expressed to obtain
a copy, it being obviously improper to receive an argument in a form which admitted of no reply,
and necessarily unavailing to inquire how much or how little would satisfy France, when her
right to any such explanation had been beforehand so distinctly and formally denied.

All which is respectfully submitted.

JOHN FORSYTH.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, June 18, 1835.

The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:

I have the honor to present, for the examination of the President, three letters received at
the Department from ----, dated at Paris, the 19th, 23d, and 30th of April. The last two I
found here on my recent return from Georgia. They were received on the 9th and 10th of June;
the last came to my own hand yesterday. Several communications have been previously received
from the same quarter, all of them volunteered; none of them have been acknowledged. The unsolicited
communications to the Department by citizens of the United States of facts that may come to
their knowledge while residing abroad, likely to be interesting to their country, are always
received with pleasure and carefully preserved on the files of the Government. Even opinions
on foreign topics are received with proper respect for the motives and character of those who
may choose to express them.

But holding it both improper and dangerous to countenance any of our citizens occupying no
public station in sending confidential communications on our affairs with a foreign government
at which we have an accredited agent, upon subjects involving the honor of the country, without
the knowledge of such agent, and virtually substituting himself as the channel of communication
between that government and his own, I considered it my duty to invite Mr. Pageot to the Department
to apprise him of the contents of Mr. ----'s letter of the 23d of April, and at the same time
to inform him that he might communicate the fact to the Duke de Broglie that no notice could
be taken of Mr. ---- and his communications.

The extreme and culpable indiscretion of Mr. ---- in this transaction was strikingly illustrated
by a remark of Mr. Pageot, after a careful examination of the letter of 23d April, that although
without instructions from his Government he would venture to assure me that the Duke de Broglie
could not have expected Mr. ---- to make such a communication to the Secretary of State. Declining
to enter into the consideration of what the Duke might have expected or intended, I was satisfied
with the assurances Mr. Pageot gave me that he would immediately state what had occurred to
his Government.

All which is respectfully submitted, with the hope, if the course pursued is approved by the
President, that this report may be filed in this Department with the letters to which it refers.

JOHN FORSYTH.

Mr. Forsyth to Mr. Livingston.

No. 50.

SIR: In my note No. 49 you were informed that the last letter of M. Sérurier would be made
the subject of separate and particular instructions to you. Unwilling to add to the irritation
produced by recent incidents in our relations with France, the President will not take for
granted that the very exceptionable language of the French minister was used by the orders
or will be countenanced by the authority of the King of France. You will therefore, as early
as practicable after this reaches you, call the attention of the minister of foreign affairs
to the following passage in M. Sérurier's letter:

  "Les plaintes que porte M. le Président centre le prétendu
  non-accomplissement des engagemens pris par le Gouvernement du Roi à
  la suite du vote du 1er avril 1834, ne sont pas seulement étrangé par
  l'entière inexactitude des allégations sur lesquelles elles reposent,
  mais aussi parceque les explications qu'a reçues à Paris M. Livingston,
  et celles que le soussigné a données directement an cabinet de
  Washington semblaient ne pas laisser même la possibilité d'un
  malentendu sur des points aussi délicats."

In all discussions between government and government, whatever may be the differences of opinion
on the facts or principles brought into view, the invariable rule of courtesy and justice demands
that the sincerity of the opposing party in the views which it entertains should never be called
in question. Facts may be denied, deductions examined, disproved, and condemned, without just
cause of offense; but no impeachment of the integrity of the Government in its reliance on
the correctness of its own views can be permitted without a total forgetfulness of self-respect.
In the sentence quoted from M. Sérurier's letter no exception is taken to the assertion that
the complaints of this Government are founded upon allegations entirely inexact, nor upon that
which declares the explanations given here or in Paris appeared, not to have left even the
possibility of a misunderstanding on such delicate points. The correctness of these assertions
we shall always dispute, and while the records of the two Governments endure we shall find
no difficulty in shewing that they are groundless; but when M. Sérurier chooses to qualify
the nonaccomplishment of the engagements made by France, to which the President refers, as
a pretended nonaccomplishment, he conveys the idea that the Chief Magistrate knows or believes
that he is in error, and acting upon this known error seeks to impose it upon Congress and
the world as truth. In this sense it is a direct attack upon the integrity of the Chief Magistrate
of the Republic. As such it must be indignantly repelled; and it being a question of moral
delinquency between the two Governments, the evidence against France, by whom it is raised,
must be sternly arrayed. You will ascertain, therefore, if it has been used by the authority
or receives the sanction of the Government of France in that sense. Should it be disavowed
or explained, as from the note of the Count de Rigny to you, written at the moment of great
excitement, and in its matter not differing from M. Sérurier's, it is presumed it will be,
you will then use the materials herewith communicated, or already in your power, in a temper
of great forbearance, but with a firmness of tone not to be mistaken, to answer the substance
of the note itself.

The undersigned, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of His Majesty the King of
the French at Washington, has received orders to present the following note to the Secretary
of State of the Government of the United States:

It would be superfluous to say that the message addressed on the 1st of December, 1834, to
the Congress of the United States by President Jackson was received at Paris with a sentiment
of painful surprise.

The King's Government is far from supposing that the measures recommended in this message to
the attention of Congress can be adopted (votées) by that assembly; but even considering the
document in question as a mere manifestation of the opinion which the President wishes to express
with regard to the course taken in this affair, it is impossible not to consider its publication
as a fact of a most serious nature.

The complaints brought forward by the President on account of the pretended nonfulfillment
of the engagements entered into by the King's Government after the vote of the 1st of April
are strange, not only from the total inaccuracy of the allegations on which they are based,
but also because the explanations received by Mr. Livingston at Paris and those which the undersigned
has given directly to the Cabinet of Washington seemed not to leave the slightest possibility
of misunderstanding on points so delicate.

It appeared, indeed, from these explanations that although the session of the French Chambers,
which was opened on the 31st of July last in compliance with an express provision of the charter,
was prorogued at the end of a fortnight, before the bill relative to the American claims, announced
in the discourse from the throne, could be placed under discussion, this prorogation arose
(tendit) entirely from the absolute impossibility of commencing at so premature a period the
legislative labors belonging to the year 1835.

It also appeared that the motives which had hindered the formal presentation to the Chambers
of the bill in question during the first space of a fortnight originated chiefly in the desire
more effectually to secure the success of this important affair by choosing the most opportune
moment of offering it to the deliberations of the deputies newly elected, who, perhaps, might
have been unfavorably impressed by this unusual haste in submitting it to them so long before
the period at which they could enter upon an examination of it.

The undersigned will add that it is, moreover, difficult to comprehend what advantage could
have resulted from such a measure, since it could not evidently have produced the effect which
the President declares that he had in view, of enabling him to state at the opening of Congress
that these long-pending negotiations were definitively closed. The President supposes, it is
true, that the Chambers might have been called together anew before the last month of 1834;
but even though the session had been opened some months earlier--which for several reasons
would have been impossible--the simplest calculation will serve to shew that in no case could
the decision of the Chambers have been taken, much less made known at Washington, before the
1st of December.

The King's Government had a right (devait) to believe that considerations so striking would
have proved convincing with the Cabinet of the United States, and the more so as no direct
communication made to the undersigned by this Cabinet or transmitted at Paris by Mr. Livingston
had given token of the irritation and misunderstandings which the message of December 1 has
thus deplorably revealed, and as Mr. Livingston, with that judicious spirit which characterizes
him, coinciding with the system of (ménagemens) precautions and temporizing prudence adopted
by the cabinet of the Tuileries with a view to the common interests, had even requested at
the moment of the meeting of the Chambers that the presentation of the bill in question might
be deferred, in order that its discussion should not be mingled with debates of another nature,
with which its coincidence might place it in jeopardy.

This last obstacle had just been removed and the bill was about to be presented to the Chamber
of Deputies when the arrival of the message, by creating in the minds of all a degree of astonishment
at least equal to the just irritation which it could not fail to produce, has forced the Government
of the King to deliberate on the part which it had to adopt.

Strong in its own right and dignity, it did not conceive that the inexplicable act of the President
ought to cause it to renounce absolutely a determination the origin of which had been its respect
for engagements (loyauté) and its good feelings toward a friendly nation. Although it does
not conceal from itself that the provocation given at Washington has materially increased the
difficulties of the case, already so great, yet it has determined to ask from the Chambers
an appropriation of twenty-five millions to meet the engagements of the treaty of July 4.

But His Majesty has at the same time resolved no longer to expose his minister to hear such
language as that held on December 1. The undersigned has received orders to return to France,
and the dispatch of this order has been made known to Mr. Livingston.

The undersigned has the honor to present to the Secretary of State the assurance of his high
consideration.

SÉRURIER.

Mr. Livingston to the Duke de Broglie.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATICS OF AMERICA,

Paris, April 18, 1835.

Each party in a discussion of this nature has an uncontested right to make its own statement
of facts and draw its own conclusions from them, to acknowledge or deny the accuracy of counter
proof or the force of objecting arguments, with no other restraints than those which respect
for his own convictions, the opinion of the world, and the rules of common courtesy impose.
This freedom of argument is essential to the discussion of all national concerns, and can not
be objected to without showing an improper and irritating susceptibility. It is for this reason
that the Government of the United States make no complaint of the assertion in the note presented
by M. Sérurier that the statement of facts contained in the President's message is inaccurate,
and that the causes assigned for the delay in presenting the law ought to have satisfied them.
On their part they contest the facts, deny the accuracy of the conclusions, and appeal to the
record, to reason, and to the sense of justice of His Majesty's Government on a more mature
consideration of the case for their justification. But I am further instructed to say that
there is one expression in the passage I have quoted which in one signification could not be
admitted even within the broad limits which are allowed to discussions of this nature, and
which, therefore, the President will not believe to have been used in the offensive sense that
might be attributed to it. The word "pretendu" sometimes, it is believed, in French, and its
translation always in English, implies not only that the assertion which it qualifies is untrue,
but that the party making it knows it to be so and uses it for the purposes of deception.

Although the President can not believe that the term was employed in this injurious sense,
yet the bare possibility of a construction being put upon it which it would be incumbent on
him to repel with indignation obliges him to ask for the necessary explanation.

I have the honor to be, etc.,

EDWARD LIVINGSTON.

Mr. Livingston to Mr. Forsyth.

[Extract.]

WASHINGTON, June 29, 1835.

WASHINGTON, January 20, 1836.

Hon. JAMES K. POLK,

Speaker of the House of Representatives.

SIR: I herewith transmit to the House of Representatives a report from the Director of the
Mint, exhibiting the operations of that institution during the year 1835.

The report contains also some very useful suggestions as to certain changes in the laws connected
with our coinage and with that establishment, which are recommended to your early and careful
attention.

Besides some remarks in it on the progress made in the erection of branch mints and procuring
machinery therefor, I inclose a report from the Secretary of the Treasury, submitting more
detailed statements as to the new buildings from each of the agents appointed to superintend
their erection.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 8, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

The Government of Great Britain has offered its mediation for the adjustment of the dispute
between the United States and France. Carefully guarding that point in the controversy which,
as it involves our honor and independence, admits of no compromise, I have cheerfully accepted
the offer. It will be obviously improper to resort even to the mildest measures of a compulsory
character until it is ascertained whether France has declined or accepted the mediation. I
therefore recommend a suspension of all proceedings on that part of my special message of the
15th of January last which proposes a partial nonintercourse with France. While we can not
too highly appreciate the elevated and disinterested motives of the offer of Great Britain,
and have a just reliance upon the great influence of that power to restore the relations of
ancient friendship between the United States and France, and know, too, that our own pacific
policy will be strictly adhered to until the national honor compels us to depart from it, we
should be insensible to the exposed condition of our country and forget the lessons of experience
if we did not efficiently and sedulously prepare for an adverse result. The peace of a nation
does not depend exclusively upon its own will, nor upon the beneficent policy of neighboring
powers; and that nation which is found totally unprepared for the exigencies and dangers of
war, although it come without having given warning of its approach, is criminally negligent
of its honor and its duty. I can not too strongly repeat the recommendation already made to
place the seaboard in a proper state for defense and promptly to provide the means for amply
protecting our commerce.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 9, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the call made by the Senate in their resolution of the 3d instant, relative to
the Indian hostilities in Florida, I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of War,
accompanied by sundry explanatory papers.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 10, 1836.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of War, with copies of so much of the correspondence
relating to Indian affairs called for by the resolution of the House of January 23, 1835, as
can be furnished by that Department. I also transmit a report on the same subject from the
Treasury Department, from which it appears that without a special appropriation or the suspension
for a considerable period of much of the urgent and current business of the General Land Office
it is impracticable to take copies of all the papers described in the resolution. Under these
circumstances the subject is again respectfully submitted to the consideration of the House
of Representatives.

ANDREW JACKSON.

FEBRUARY 11, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith return to the Senate the resolution of the legislature of the State of Indiana requesting
the President to suspend from sale a strip of land 10 miles in width, on a line from Munceytown
to Fort Wayne, which resolution was referred to me on the 5th instant.

It appears from the memorial to which the resolution is subjoined that the lands embraced therein
have been in market for several years past; that the legislature of the State of Indiana have
applied to Congress for the passage of a law giving that State the right to purchase at such
reduced prices as Congress may fix, and that their suspension from sale is requested as auxiliary
to this application.

By the acts of Congress now in force all persons who may choose to make entries for these lands
in the manner prescribed by law are entitled to purchase the same, and as the President possesses
no dispensing power it will be obvious to the Senate that until authorized by law he can not
rightfully act on the subject referred to him.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 15, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit to the Senate, in pursuance of the resolutions passed by that body on the 3d instant,
a report from the Secretary of State, accompanied by certain papers, relative to the existing
relations between the United States and France.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 18, 1836. For reasons adverted to by the Secretary of State, the resolutions
of the House have not been more fully complied with.

ANDREW JACKSON.

FEBRUARY 22, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith to Congress copies of the correspondence between the Secretary of State
and the chargé d'affaires of His Britannic Majesty, relative to the mediation of Great Britain
in our disagreement with France and to the determination of the French Government to execute
the treaty of indemnification without further delay on the application for payment by the agent
of the United States.

The grounds upon which the mediation was accepted will be found fully developed in the correspondence.
On the part of France the mediation had been publicly accepted before the offer of it could
be received here. Whilst each of the two Governments has thus discovered a just solicitude
to resort to all honorable means of adjusting amicably the controversy between them, it is
a matter of congratulation that the mediation has been rendered unnecessary. Under such circumstances
the anticipation may be confidently indulged that the disagreement between the United States
and France will not have produced more than a temporary estrangement. The healing effects of
time, a just consideration of the powerful motives for a cordial good understanding between
the two nations, the strong inducements each has to respect and esteem the other, will no doubt
soon obliterate from their remembrance all traces of that disagreement.

Of the elevated and disinterested part the Government of Great Britain has acted and was prepared
to act I have already had occasion to express my high sense. Universal respect and the consciousness
of meriting it are with Governments as with men the just rewards of those who faithfully exert
their power to preserve peace, restore harmony, and perpetuate good will.

I may be permitted, I trust, at this time, without a suspicion of the most remote desire to
throw off censure from the Executive or to point it to any other department or branch of the
Government, to refer to the want of effective preparation in which our country was found at
the late crisis. From the nature of our institutions the movements of the Government in preparation
for hostilities must ever be too slow for the exigencies of unexpected war. I submit it, then,
to you whether the first duty we owe to the people who have confided to us their power is not
to place our country in such an attitude as always to be so amply supplied with the means of
self-defense as to afford no inducements to other nations to presume upon our forbearance or
to expect important advantages from a sudden assault, either upon our commerce, our seacoast,
or our interior frontier. In case of the commencement of hostilities during the recess of Congress,
the time inevitably elapsing before that body could be called together, even under the most
favorable circumstances, would be pregnant with danger; and if we escaped without signal disaster
or national dishonor, the hazard of both unnecessarily incurred could not fail to excite a
feeling of deep reproach. I earnestly recommend to you, therefore, to make such provisions
that in no future time shall we be found without ample means to repel aggression, even although
it may come upon us without a note of warning. We are now, fortunately, so situated that the
expenditure for this purpose will not be felt, and if it were it would be approved by those
from whom all its means are derived, and for whose benefit only it should be used with a liberal
economy and an enlightened forecast.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 27, 1836.

The undersigned, His Britannic Majesty's chargé d'affaires, has been instructed to state to
Mr. Forsyth, the Secretary of State of the United States, that the British Government has witnessed
with the greatest pain and regret the progress of the misunderstanding which has lately grown
up between the Governments of France and of the United States. The first object of the undeviating
policy of the British cabinet has been to maintain uninterrupted the relations of peace between
Great Britain and the other nations of the world, without any abandonment of national interests
and without any sacrifice of national honor. The next object to which their anxious and unremitting
exertions have been directed has been by an appropriate exercise of the good offices and moral
influence of Great Britain to heal dissensions which may have arisen among neighboring powers
and to preserve for other nations those blessings of peace which Great Britain is so desirous
of securing for herself.

The steady efforts of His Majesty's Government have hitherto been, fortunately, successful
in the accomplishment of both these ends, and while Europe during the last five years has passed
through a crisis of extraordinary hazard without any disturbance of the general peace, His
Majesty's Government has the satisfaction of thinking that it has on more than one occasion
been instrumental in reconciling differences which might otherwise have led to quarrels, and
in cementing union between friendly powers.

But if ever there could be an occasion on which it would be painful to the British Government
to see the relations of amity broken off between two friendly states that occasion is undoubtedly
the present, when a rupture is apprehended between two great powers, with both of which Great
Britain is united by the closest ties--with one of which she is engaged in active alliance;
with the other of which she is joined by community of interests and by the bonds of kindred.

Nor would the grounds of difference on the present occasion reconcile the friends and wellwishers
of the differing parties to the misfortune of an open rupture between them.

When the conflicting interests of two nations are so opposed on a particular question as to
admit of no possible compromise, the sword may be required to cut the knot which reason is
unable to untie.

When passions have been so excited on both sides that no common standard of justice can be
found, and what one party insists on as a right the other denounces as a wrong, prejudice may
become too headstrong to yield to the voice of equity, and those who can agree on nothing else
may consent to abide the fate of arms and to allow that the party which shall prove the weakest
in the war shall be deemed to have been wrong in the dispute.

But in the present case there is no question of national interest at issue between France and
the United States. In the present case there is no demand of justice made by one party and
denied by the other. The disputed claims of America on France, which were founded upon transactions
in the early part of the present century and were for many years in litigation, have at length
been established by mutual consent and are admitted by a treaty concluded between the two Governments.
The money due by France has been provided by the Chambers, and has been placed at the disposal
of the French Government for the purpose of being paid to the United States. But questions
have arisen between the two Governments in the progress of those transactions affecting on
both sides the feelings of national honor, and it is on this ground that the relations between
the parties have been for the moment suspended and are in danger of being more seriously interrupted.

In this state of things the British Government is led to think that the good offices of a third
power equally the friend of France and of the United States, and prompted by considerations
of the highest order most earnestly to wish for the continuance of peace, might be useful in
restoring a good understanding between the two parties on a footing consistent with the nicest
feelings of national honor in both.

The undersigned has therefore been instructed by His Majesty's Government formally to tender
to the Government of the United States the mediation of Great Britain for the settlement of
the differences between the United States and France, and to say that a note precisely similar
to the present has been delivered to the French Government by His Majesty's ambassador at Paris.
The undersigned has, at the same time, to express the confident hope of His Majesty's Government
that if the two parties would agree to refer to the British Government the settlement of the
point at issue between them, and to abide by the opinion which that Government might after
due consideration communicate to the two parties thereupon, means might be found of satisfying
the honor of each without incurring those great and manifold evils which a rupture between
two such powers must inevitably entail on both.

The undersigned has the honor to renew to Mr. Forsyth the assurance of his most distinguished
consideration.

CHARLES BANKHEAD.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, February 3, 1836. That communication having been submitted to the President, and
considered with all the care belonging to the importance of the subject and the source from
which it emanated, the undersigned has been instructed to assure Mr. Bankhead that the disinterested
and honorable motives which have dictated the proposal are fully appreciated. The pacific policy
of His Britannic Majesty's cabinet and their efforts to heal dissensions arising among nations
are worthy of the character and commanding influence of Great Britain, and the success of those
efforts is as honorable to the Government by whose instrumentality it was secured as it has
been beneficial to the parties more immediately interested and to the world at large.

The sentiments upon which this policy is founded, and which are so forcibly displayed in the
offer that has been made, are deeply impressed upon the mind of the President. They are congenial
with the institutions and principles as well as with the interests and habits of the people
of the United States, and it has been the constant aim of their Government in its conduct toward
other powers to observe and illustrate them. Cordially approving the general views of His Britannic
Majesty's Government, the President regards with peculiar satisfaction the enlightened and
disinterested solicitude manifested by it for the welfare of the nations to whom its good offices
are now tendered, and has seen with great sensibility, in the exhibition of that feeling, the
recognition of that community of interests and those ties of kindred by which the United States
and Great Britain are united.

If circumstances did not render it certain, it would have been obvious from the language of
Mr. Bankhead's note to the undersigned that the Government of His Britannic Majesty, when the
instructions under which it was prepared were given, could not have been apprised of all the
steps taken in the controversy between the United States and France. It was necessarily ignorant
of the tenor of the two recent messages of the President to Congress--the first communicated
at the commencement of the present session, under date of the 7th of December, 1835, and the
second under that of the 15th of January, 1836. Could these documents have been within the
knowledge of His Britannic Majesty's Government, the President does not doubt that it would
have been fully satisfied that the disposition of the United States, notwithstanding their
well-grounded and serious causes of complaint against France, to restore friendly relations
and cultivate a good understanding with the Government of that country was undiminished, and
that all had already been done on their part that could in reason be expected of them to secure
that result. The first of these documents, although it gave such a history of the origin and
progress of the claims of the United States and of the proceedings of France before and since
the treaty of 1831 as to vindicate the statements and recommendations of the message of the
1st of December, 1834, yet expressly disclaimed the offensive interpretation put upon it by
the Government of France, and while it insisted on the acknowledged rights of the United States
and the obligations of the treaty and maintained the honor and independence of the American
Government, evinced an anxious desire to do all that constitutional duty and strict justice
would permit to remove every cause of irritation and excitement. The special message of the
15th January last being called for by the extraordinary and inadmissible demands of the Government
of France as defined in the last official communications at Paris, and by the continued refusal
of France to execute a treaty from the faithful performance of which by the United States it
was tranquilly enjoying important advantages, it became the duty of the President to recommend
such measures as might be adapted to the exigencies of the occasion. Unwilling to believe that
a nation distinguished for honor and intelligence could have determined permanently to maintain
a ground so indefensible, and anxious still to leave open the door of reconciliation, the President
contented himself with proposing to Congress the mildest of the remedies given by the law and
practice of nations in connection with such propositions for defense as were evidently required
by the condition of the United States and the attitude assumed by France. In all these proceedings,
as well as in every stage of these difficulties with France, it is confidently believed that
the course of the United States, when duly considered by other Governments and the world, will
be found to have been marked not only by a pacific disposition, but by a spirit of forbearance
and conciliation.

For a further illustration of this point, as well as for the purpose of presenting a lucid
view of the whole subject, the undersigned has the honor to transmit to Mr. Bankhead copies
of all that part of the message of December 7, 1835, which relates to it and of the correspondence
referred to therein, and also copies of the message and accompanying documents of the 15th
of January, 1836, and of another message of the 18th of the same month, transmitting a report
of the Secretary of State and certain documents connected with the subject.

These papers, while they will bring down the history of the misunderstanding between the United
States and France to the present date, will also remove an erroneous impression which appears
to be entertained by His Britannic Majesty's Government. It is suggested in Mr. Bankhead's
note that there is no question of national interest at issue between France and the United
States, and that there is no demand of justice made by the one party and denied by the other.
But it is to be observed that the payment of the money thus appropriated is refused by the
French Government unless the United States will first comply with a condition not contained
in the treaty and not assented to by them. This refusal to make payment is, in the view of
the United States, a denial of justice, and has not only been accompanied by acts and language
of which they have great reason to complain, but the delay of payment is highly injurious to
those American citizens who are entitled to share in the indemnification provided by the treaty
and to the interests of the United States, inasmuch as the reduction of the duties levied on
French wines in pursuance of that treaty has diminished the public revenue, and has been and
yet is enjoyed by France, with all the other benefits of the treaty, without the consideration
and equivalents for which they were granted. But there are other national interests, and, in
the judgment of this Government, national interests of the highest order, involved in the condition
prescribed and insisted on by France which it has been by the President made the duty of the
undersigned to bring distinctly into view. That condition proceeds on the assumption that a
foreign power whose acts are spoken of by the President of the United States in a message to
Congress, transmitted in obedience to his constitutional duties, and which deems itself aggrieved
by the language thus held by him, may as a matter of right require from the Government of the
United States a direct official explanation of such language, to be given in such form and
expressed in such terms as shall meet the requirements and satisfy the feelings of the offended
party, and may in default of such explanation annul or suspend a solemn treaty duly executed
by its constitutional organ. Whatever may be the responsibility of those nations whose executives
possess the power of declaring war and of adopting other coercive remedies without the intervention
of the legislative department, for the language held by the Executive in addressing that department,
it is obvious that under the Constitution of the United States, which gives to the Executive
no such powers, but vests them exclusively in the Legislature, whilst at the same time it imposes
on the Executive the duty of laying before the Legislature the state of the nation, with such
recommendations as he may deem proper, no such responsibility can be admitted without impairing
that freedom of intercommunication which is essential to the system and without surrendering
in this important particular the right of self-government. In accordance with this view of
the Federal Constitution has been the practice under it. The statements and recommendations
of the President to Congress are regarded by this Government as a part of the purely domestic
consultations held by its different departments--consultations in which nothing is addressed
to foreign powers, and in which they can not be permitted to interfere, and for which, until
consummated and carried out by acts emanating from the proper constitutional organs, the nation
is not responsible and the Government not liable to account to other States.

It will be seen from the accompanying correspondence that when the condition referred to was
first proposed in the Chamber of Deputies the insuperable objections to it were fully communicated
by the American minister at Paris to the French Government, and that he distinctly informed
it that the condition, if prescribed, could never be complied with. The views expressed by
him were approved by the President, and have been since twice asserted and enforced by him
in his messages to Congress in terms proportioned in their explicitness and solemnity to the
conviction he entertains of the importance and inviolability of the principle involved.

The United States can not yield this principle, nor can they do or consent to any measure by
which its influence in the action of their political system can be obstructed or diminished.
Under these circumstances the President feels that he may rely on the intelligence and liberality
of His Britannic Majesty's Government for a correct estimation of the imperative obligations
which leave him no power to subject this point to the control of any foreign state, whatever
may be his confidence in its justice and impartiality--a confidence which he has taken pleasure
in instructing the undersigned to state is fully reposed by him in the Government of His Britannic
Majesty.

So great, however, is the desire of the President for the restoration of a good understanding
with the Government of France, provided it can be effected on terms compatible with the honor
and independence of the United States, that if, after the frank avowal of his sentiments upon
the point last referred to and the explicit reservation of that point, the Government of His
Britannic Majesty shall believe that its mediation can be useful in adjusting the differences
which exist between the two countries and in restoring all their relations to a friendly footing,
he instructs the undersigned to inform Mr. Bankhead that in such case the offer of mediation
made in his note is cheerfully accepted.

The United States desire nothing but equal and exact justice, and they can not but hope that
the good offices of a third power, friendly to both parties, and prompted by the elevated considerations
manifested in Mr. Bankhead's note, may promote the attainment of this end.

Influenced by these motives, the President will cordially cooperate, so far as his constitutional
powers may enable him, in such steps as may be requisite on the part of the United States to
give effect to the proposed mediation. He trusts that no unnecessary delay will be allowed
to occur, and instructs the undersigned to request that the earliest information of the measures
taken by Great Britain and of their result may be communicated to this Government.

The undersigned avails himself of the occasion to renew to Mr. Bankhead the assurances of his
distinguished consideration.

JOHN FORSYTH.

WASHINGTON, February 15, 1836.

Hon. JOHN FORSYTH, etc.:

The undersigned, His Britannic Majesty's chargé d'affaires, with reference to his note of the
27th of last month, has the honor to inform Mr. Forsyth, Secretary of State of the United States,
that he has been instructed by his Government to state that the British Government has received
a communication from that of France which fulfills the wishes that impelled His Britannic Majesty
to offer his mediation for the purpose of effecting an amicable adjustment of the difference
between France and the United States.

The French Government has stated to that of His Majesty that the frank and honorable manner
in which the President has in his recent message expressed himself with regard to the points
of difference between the Governments of France and of the United States has removed those
difficulties, upon the score of national honor, which have hitherto stood in the way of the
prompt execution by France of the treaty of the 4th July, 1831, and that consequently the French
Government is now ready to pay the installment which is due on account of the American indemnity
whenever the payment of that installment shall be claimed by the Government of the United States.

The French Government has also stated that it made this communication to that of Great Britain
not regarding the British Government as a formal mediator, since its offer of mediation had
then reached only the Government of France, by which it had been accepted, but looking upon
the British Government as a common friend of the two parties, and therefore as a natural channel
of communication between them.

The undersigned is further instructed to express the sincere pleasure which is felt by the
British Government at the prospect thus afforded of an amicable termination of a difference
which has produced a temporary estrangement between two nations who have so many interests
in common, and who are so entitled to the friendship and esteem of each other; and the undersigned
has also to assure Mr. Forsyth that it has afforded the British Government the most lively
satisfaction to have been upon this occasion the channel of a communication which they trust
will lead to the complete restoration of friendly relations between the United States and France.

The undersigned has submitted this note of His Britannic Majesty's chargé d'affaires to the
President, and is instructed to reply that the President has received this information with
the highest satisfaction--a satisfaction as sincere as was his regret at the unexpected occurrence
of the difficulty created by the erroneous impressions heretofore made upon the national sensibility
of France. By the fulfillment of the obligations of the convention between the two Governments
the great cause of difference will be removed, and the President anticipates that the benevolent
and magnanimous wishes of His Britannic Majesty's Government will be speedily realized, as
the temporary estrangement between the two nations who have so many common interests will no
doubt be followed by the restoration of their ancient ties of friendship and esteem.

The President has further instructed the undersigned to express to His Britannic Majesty's
Government his sensibility at the anxious desire it has displayed to preserve the relations
of peace between the United States and France, and the exertions it was prepared to make to
effectuate that object, so essential to the prosperity and congenial to the wishes of the two
nations and to the repose of the world.

Leaving His Majesty's Government to the consciousness of the elevated motives which have governed
its conduct and to the universal respect which must be secured to it, the President is satisfied
that no expressions, however strong, of his own feelings can be appropriately used which could
add to the gratification afforded to His Majesty's Government at being the channel of communication
to preserve peace and restore good will between differing nations, each of whom is its friend.

The undersigned avails himself of this occasion to renew to Mr. Bankhead the assurance of his
distinguished consideration.

JOHN FORSYTH.

WASHINGTON, February 23, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[The same letter was addressed to the Speaker of the House of Representatives.]

WASHINGTON, February 25, 1836.

To the Senate:

I transmit to the Senate a report[15] from the Secretary of State, complying as far as practicable
with their resolution of the 16th instant.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 15: Relating to claims for spoliations under the French treaty of 1831.]

WASHINGTON, February 29, 1836. I also transmit a copy of the correspondence which has taken
place upon the subject between the Department of State and the chargé d'affaires of Portugal.

The whole matter is submitted to the discretion of Congress, with this suggestion, that if
an act should be passed placing the cargoes of Portuguese vessels coming from certain parts
of the territories of Portugal on the footing of those imported in vessels of the United States,
in deciding upon the propriety of restoring the duties heretofore levied and the time to which
they should be restored regard should be had to the fact that the decree of the 18th April,
1834, which is made the basis of the present application, took effect in the islands of Madeira
and the Azores many months after its promulgation, and to the more important fact that until
the 1st of February instant an indirect advantage was allowed in Portugal to importations from
Great Britain over those from other countries, including the United States.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

February 27, 1836.

The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:

The undersigned, Secretary of State, has the honor to report to the President that official
information was received at this Department some time since from the chargé d'affaires of Portugal
of the abolition of all discriminating duties upon the cargoes of foreign vessels, including
those of the United States, imported into Lisbon and Oporto, by a decree of the Portuguese
Government promulgated on the 18th of April, 1834, the operation of which decree was stated
by the chargé to extend to the island of Madeira. Upon the strength of this decree he applied,
by order of his Government, for the suspension, under the fourth section of the act of Congress
of January 7, 1824, of discriminating duties upon the cargoes of Portuguese vessels imported
into the United States; but being informed that the act alluded to was inapplicable by reason
that discriminating duties upon the cargoes of American vessels still existed in a part of
the dominions of Portugal, he has requested that the principle acted upon in regard to Holland
may be extended to Portugal, and that discriminating duties may be abolished in respect to
Portugal proper, the Madeira Islands, the Azores, and such other parts of the Portuguese dominions
wherein no discriminating duty is levied upon the vessels of the United States or their cargoes.
This request is accompanied by a suggestion that unless some such reciprocity is established
the benefits of the decree of April, 1834, will be withdrawn so far as respects this country.
Application is also made for a return of the discriminating duties which have been collected
since the promulgation of the said decree from the vessels of Portugal arriving in the United
States from any of the ports embraced by that decree. In reference to this point it is proper
to state that it does not appear that the force or operation of the decree referred to of the
18th April, 1834, was extended by any official act of the Portuguese Government to the islands
of Madeira or the Azores until February or April, 1835. It is also to be observed that, notwithstanding
the abolition by that decree of discriminating duties upon the importation of goods into Portugal
from foreign countries, an exemption existed until the 1st of February instant, according to
information received from our chargé d'affaires at Lisbon, in favor of various articles when
imported from Great Britain, from an excise duty which was exacted upon the same articles when
imported from other foreign countries or produced or manufactured at home. This exemption was
granted in pursuance of the construction given to a stipulation contained in the late treaty
between Portugal and Great Britain, and ceased, together with that treaty, on the 1st day of
the present month.

The undersigned has the honor to transmit with this report a copy of the correspondence between
the Department and the chargé d'affaires of Portugal upon which it is founded.

JOHN FORSYTH.

WASHINGTON, February 29, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, March 5, 1836.

To the Senate:

I submit to the Senate, for their advice and consent as to the ratification of the same, the
treaty and the supplement to it recently concluded with the Cherokee Indians.

The papers referred to in the accompanying communication from the Secretary of War as necessary
to a full view of the whole subject are also herewith submitted.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, March 7, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, March 10, 1836. The constitution adopted by this convention and the documents accompanying
it, referred to in the report from the Secretary of State, are respectfully submitted to the
consideration of Congress.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, April 1, 1836.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith to the Senate, for their advice and consent as to its ratification, a treaty
concluded with the Ottawa and Chippewa Indians.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, April 8, 1836.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith reports from the Secretaries of the War and Navy Departments, to whom were
referred the resolutions adopted by the Senate on the 18th of February last, requesting information
of the probable amount of appropriations that would be necessary to place the land and naval
defenses of the country upon a proper footing of strength and respectability.

In respect to that branch of the subject which falls more particularly under the notice of
the Secretary of War, and in the consideration of which he has arrived at conclusions differing
from those contained in the report from the Engineer Bureau, I think it proper to add my concurrence
in the views expressed by the Secretary.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, April 12, 1836.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith a report[16] from the Secretary of War, communicating the original letter
from Major Davis and the statements which accompany it, referred to in the resolution of the
Senate of the 8th instant.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 16: Relating to the treaty of December 29, 1835, with the Cherokee Indians.]

WASHINGTON, April 27, 1836.

In order to prevent any abuse of the power granted to the chiefs in the fifth article of the
treaty, I recommend the adoption of the suggestion contained in the accompanying letter of
the Secretary of War; otherwise I shall not feel satisfied in approving that article.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, April 29, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

It affords me pleasure to transmit to Congress a copy of the Catalogue of the Arundel Manuscripts
in the British Museum, which has been forwarded to me, as will be perceived from the inclosed
letter, on behalf of the trustees of that institution, for the purpose of being placed in the
United States library.

ANDREW JACKSON.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

Believing that the act of the 12th July, 1832, does not enable the Executive to carry into
effect the recently negotiated additional article to the treaty of limits with Mexico, I transmit
to Congress copies of that article, that the necessary legislative provision may be made for
its faithful execution on the part of the United States.

ANDREW JACKSON.

MAY 6, 1836.

WASHINGTON, May 10, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

Information has been received at the Treasury Department that the four installments under our
treaty with France have been paid to the agent of the United States. In communicating this
satisfactory termination of our controversy with France, I feel assured that both Houses of
Congress will unite with me in desiring and believing that the anticipations of a restoration
of the ancient cordial relations between the two countries, expressed in my former messages
on this subject, will be speedily realized.

No proper exertion of mine shall be wanting to efface the remembrance of those misconceptions
that have temporarily interrupted the accustomed intercourse between them.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 14, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 17: Relating to affairs with Mexico.]

WASHINGTON, May 14, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit, for the consideration of the Senate, three treaties concluded with certain bands
of Pottawatamie Indians in the State of Indiana.

I transmit also a report from the Secretary of War, inclosing the instructions under which
these treaties were negotiated.

I would remark that the fourth article of each treaty provides for the appointment of a commissioner
and the payment of the debts due by the Indians. There is no limitation upon the amount of
these debts, though it is obvious from these instructions that the commissioner should have
limited the amount to be applied to this object; otherwise the whole fund might be exhausted
and the Indians left without the means of living. I therefore recommend either that the Senate
limit the amount at their discretion or that they provide by resolution that the whole purchase
money be paid to the Indians, leaving to them the adjustment of their debts.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 21, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith two treaties concluded with bands of Pottawatamies in the State of Indiana,
with accompanying papers, for the consideration and action of the Senate.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 26, 1836.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit, in conformity with a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 21st instant,
a report of the Secretary of War, containing the information called for on the subject of the
causes of the hostilities of the Seminoles and the measures taken to repress them.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 27, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 28, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration and action of the Senate, a treaty concluded on
the 24th instant with the Chippewa Indians of Saganaw.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, May 31, 1836.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith the response of Samuel Gwin, esq.,[18] to the charges affecting his official
conduct and character which were set forth in the evidence taken under the authority of the
Senate by the Committee on Public Lands, and which was referred to the President by the resolution
of the Senate bearing date the 3d day of March, 1835. This resolution and the evidence it refers
to were officially communicated to Mr. Gwin by the Secretary of the Treasury, and the response
of Mr. Gwin has been received through the same official channel.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 18: Register of the land office for the northwestern district of Mississippi.]

WASHINGTON, June 1, 1836.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith to the Senate a communication which has been received from Mr. B.F. Currey[19]
in answer to a call made upon him by the President, through the War Department, in consequence
of the serious charges which were preferred against him by one of the honorable members of
the Senate. It seems to be due to justice that the Senate should be furnished, agreeably to
the request of Mr. Currey, with the explanations contained in this communication, particularly
as they are deemed so far satisfactory as would render his dismissal or even censure undeserved
and improper.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 19: Agent for the removal of the Cherokee Indians.]

WASHINGTON, June 3, 1836.

To the Senate:

In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of the 27th ultimo, requesting the President
to inform the Senate "whether any increase or improvement of organization is needed in the
Ordnance Corps," I have to state that I entertain no doubt of the propriety of increasing the
corps, and that I concur in the plan proposed for this purpose in the accompanying report from
the Secretary of War.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 3, 1836.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a supplemental report from the War Department, in answer to the resolution
of the House of Representatives of the 21st ultimo, calling for information respecting the
causes of the Seminole hostilities and the measures taken to suppress them.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 14, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit a report of the Secretary of State, prepared in compliance with the resolution of
the Senate of the 11th instant, upon the subject of the depredations of the Mexicans on the
property of Messrs. Chouteau and Demun.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 15, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

I communicate to the Senate a report from the Secretary of State, with a copy of the correspondence
requested by a resolution of the 21st ultimo, relative to the northeastern boundary of the
United States.

At the last session of Congress I felt it my duty to decline complying with a request made
by the House of Representatives for copies of this correspondence, feeling, as I did, that
it would be inexpedient to publish it while the negotiation was pending; but as the negotiation
was undertaken under the special advice of the Senate, I deem it improper to withhold the information
which that body has requested, submitting to them to decide whether it will be expedient to
publish the correspondence before the negotiation has been closed.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 23, 1836. Not having accurate and detailed information of the civil, military,
and political condition of Texas, I have deemed it expedient to take the necessary measures,
now in progress, to procure it before deciding upon the course to be pursued in relation to
the newly declared government.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 20: Relating to the political condition of Texas, the organization of its Government,
and its capacity to maintain its independence, etc.]

JUNE 28, 1836.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit to the House of Representatives a report from the Secretary of War, conveying the
information called for by the House in its resolution of yesterday, concerning the Cherokee
treaty recently ratified.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 28, 1836.

To the Senate:

As it is probable that it may be proper to send a minister to Paris prior to the next meeting
of Congress, I nominate Lewis Cass, now Secretary for the Department of War, to be envoy extraordinary
and minister plenipotentiary to France, not to be commissioned until notice has been received
here that the Government of France has appointed a minister to the United States who is about
to set out for Washington.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, June 30, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

It becomes my painful duty to announce to you the melancholy intelligence of the death of James
Madison, ex-President of the United States. He departed this life at half past 6 o'clock on
the morning of the 28th instant, full of years and full of honors.

I hasten this communication in order that Congress may adopt such measures as may be proper
to testify their sense of the respect which is due to the memory of one whose life has contributed
so essentially to the happiness and glory of his country and the good of mankind.

ANDREW JACKSON.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit to Congress copies of a treaty of peace, friendship, navigation, and commerce between
the United States and the Republic of Venezuela, concluded on the 20th of January, and the
ratifications of which were exchanged at Caracas on the 31st of May last.

ANDREW JACKSON.

JUNE 30, 1836.

WASHINGTON, June 30, 1836.

To the House of Representatives:

I return to the House of Representatives the papers which accompanied their resolution of the
6th of May last, relative to the claim of Don Juan Madrazo, together with a report of the Secretary
of State and copies of a correspondence between him and the Attorney-General, showing the grounds
upon which that officer declines giving the opinion requested by the resolution.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, July 1, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 21st January last, I transmit a report[21]
of the Secretary of War, containing the copies called for so far as relates to his Department.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 21: Relating to frauds in sales of public lands or Indian reservations.]

VETO MESSAGE.

WASHINGTON, June 9, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

The act of Congress "to appoint a day for the annual meeting of Congress," which originated
in the Senate, has not received my signature. The power of Congress to fix by law a day for
the regular annual meeting of Congress is undoubted, but the concluding part of this act, which
is intended to fix the adjournment of every succeeding Congress to the second Monday in May
after the commencement of the first session, does not appear to me in accordance with the provisions
of the Constitution of the United States.

The Constitution provides, Article I, section 5, that--

  Neither House, during the session of Congress, shall, without the
  consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any
  other place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.

Article I, section 7, that--

  Every order, resolution, or vote to which the concurrence of the Senate
  and House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question of
  adjournment) shall be presented to the President of the United States,
  and before the same shall take effect shall be approved by him. ...

Article II, section 3, that--

  He [the President] may, on extraordinary occasions convene both Houses,
  or either of them, and in case of disagreement between them with respect
  to the time of adjournment he may adjourn them to such time as he shall
  think proper. ...

According to these provisions the day of the adjournment of Congress is not the subject of
legislative enactment. Except in the event of disagreement between the Senate and House of
Representatives, the President has no right to meddle with the question, and in that event
his power is exclusive, but confined to fixing the adjournment of the Congress whose branches
have disagreed. The question of adjournment is obviously to be decided by each Congress for
itself, by the separate action of each House for the time being, and is one of those subjects
upon which the framers of that instrument did not intend one Congress should act, with or without
the Executive aid, for its successors. As a substitute for the present rule, which requires
the two Houses by consent to fix the day of adjournment, and in the event of disagreement the
President to decide, it is proposed to fix a day by law to be binding in all future time unless
changed by consent of both Houses of Congress, and to take away the contingent power of the
Executive which in anticipated cases of disagreement is vested in him. This substitute is to
apply, not to the present Congress and Executive, but to our successors. Considering, therefore,
that this subject exclusively belongs to the two Houses of Congress whose day of adjournment
is to be fixed, and that each has at that time the right to maintain and insist upon its own
opinion, and to require the President to decide in the event of disagreement with the other,
I am constrained to deny my sanction to the act herewith respectfully returned to the Senate.
I do so with greater reluctance as, apart from this constitutional difficulty, the other provisions
of it do not appear to me objectionable.

ANDREW JACKSON.

PROCLAMATION.

[From Statutes at Large (little, Brown & Co.), Vol. Given under my hand, at the city of Washington,
the 1st day of September, A.D. 1836, and of the Independence of the United States the sixty-first.

ANDREW JACKSON.

By the President:
  JOHN FORSYTH,
    Secretary of State.

EXECUTIVE ORDER.

HERMITAGE, August 7, 1836.

C.A. HARRIS, Esq.,

Acting Secretary of War.

SIR: I reached home on the evening of the 4th, and was soon surrounded with the papers and
letters which had been sent here in anticipation of my arrival. Amongst other important matters
which immediately engaged my attention was the requisition of General Gaines on Tennessee,
Kentucky, Mississippi, and Louisiana. Believing that the reasons given for this requisition
were not consistent with the neutrality which it is our duty to observe in respect to the contest
in Texas, and that it would embarrass the apportionment which had been made of the 10,000 volunteers
authorized by the recent act of Congress, I informed Governor Cannon by letter on the 5th instant
that it could not receive my sanction. The volunteers authorized by Congress were thought competent,
with the aid of the regular force, to terminate the Indian war in the South and protect our
western frontier, and they were apportioned in a manner the best calculated to secure these
objects. Agreeably to this apportionment, the volunteers raised in Arkansas and Missouri, and
ordered to be held in readiness for the defense of the western frontier, should have been called
on before any other requisition was made upon Tennessee, who has already more than her proportion
in the field. Should an emergency hereafter arise making it necessary to have a greater force
on that frontier than was anticipated when the apportionment was made, it will be easy to order
the east Tennessee brigade there. All the volunteers under the act are engaged for one year's
service, unless sooner discharged. Taking this view of the subject, I regret that as soon as
the War Department had information of the requisition made by General Gaines it had not at
once notified the governors of the States that the apportionment of the volunteers at first
communicated to them would not be departed from, and that of course those in the States nearest
to the scene of threatened hostility would be first called on.

I had written thus far when your letter of the 26th of July last, accompanied by one from General
Wool of the 15th of July and one from General Towsen of the 25th of July last, was handed to
me. The letter from General Wool was unexpected. His guide was the requisition on the State,
and I can not well imagine how he could suppose that the Department would authorize a greater
number of troops to be mustered and paid than he was specially directed to receive. He was
apprised fully of the apportionment which had been made of the 10,000 volunteers, and of the
considerations which induced us to require 1,000 from Florida, 2,000 from Georgia, 2,000 from
Alabama, and 2,500 from Tennessee. This force was designated in this manner because it was
in the country nearest to the Seminoles, Creeks, and Cherokees, and in like manner near the
force designated for the western frontier, except a fraction of about 430 men to be hereafter
selected when it should be ascertained where it would be most needed. It is therefore unaccountable
to me why General Wool would receive and muster into the service a greater number than has
been called for and placed under his command, particularly as he knew that Tennessee had already
been called upon for more volunteers than her proportion in the general apportionment. He knows
that the President can only execute the law, and he ought to have recollected that if the officers
charged with the military operations contemplated by the law were to use their own discretion
in fixing the number of men to be received and mustered into the service there could be no
certainty in the amount of force which would be brought into the field. His guide was the requisition
upon Tennessee for 2,500, and he should never have departed from it.

The brave men whose patriotism brought them into the field ought to be paid, but I seriously
doubt whether any of the money now appropriated can be used for this purpose, as all the volunteers
authorized by the act of Congress have been apportioned, and the appropriations should be first
applicable to their payment if they should be ordered into the field. All that we can do is
to bring the subject before the next Congress, which I trust will pass an act authorizing the
payment. Those men obeyed the summons of their country, and ought not to suffer for the indiscretion
of those who caused more of them to turn out than could be received into the service. The excess
would have been avoided had the governor of Tennessee apportioned his requisition to each county
or regiment, so as to make the proper number. This, however, can now only be regretted. I can
not approve the mustering or reception into the service of the excess further than it may have
been done to secure them hereafter the justice which it will be in the power of Congress to
extend to them. They ought to be paid for their travel and expense to, at, and from the place
of rendezvous, and Congress will doubtless pass the necessary law. Their promptness in tendering
their services and equipping themselves for the field is a high evidence of patriotism, and
the thanks of their country.

I shall inclose a copy of this letter to General Wool, and write to the governors of Kentucky,
Mississippi, and Louisiana to withhold for the present the quota called for under General Gaines's
requisition, and if they are concentrated to muster and discharge them and wait for further orders.

I am, yours, respectfully,

ANDREW JACKSON.

EIGHTH ANNUAL MESSAGE.

ANDREW JACKSON.

A.--Statement of distribution of surplus revenue of $30,000,000 among the several States, agreeably
to the number of electoral votes for President and according to the constitutional mode of
direct taxation by representative population, and the difference arising from those two modes
of distribution, as per census of 1830.

   S  Representative Elect- Share      Share      Difference  Difference
   t  population     oral   according  according  in favor    in favor
   a                 vote   to system  to         of direct   of
   t                        of direct  electoral  tax         electoral
   e                        taxation   vote       mode        vote mode

  ME    399,454      10    $999,371   $1,020,408               $21,037
  NH    269,327       7     673,813      714,286                40,473
  MA    610,408      14   1,527,144    1,428,571    $98,573
  RI     97,192       4     243,159      408,163               165,004
  CT    297,665       8     744,711      816,327                71,616
  VT    280,652       7     702,147      714,286                12,139
  NY  1,918,578      42   4,799,978    4,285,714    514,264
  NJ    319,921       8     800,392      816,427                15,935
  PA  1,348,072      30   3,372,662    3,061,225    311,437
  DE     75,431       3     188,716      306,122               117,406
  MD    405,842      10   1,015,352    1,020,408                 5,056
  VA  1,023,502      23   2,560 640    2,346,939    213,701
  NC    639,747      15   1,600,546    1,530,612     69,934
  SC    455,025      11   1,138,400    1,122,449     15,951
  GA    429,811      11   1,075,319    1,122,449                47,130
  AL    262,307       7     656,751      714,286                57,535
  MS    110,357       4     276,096      408,163               132,067
  LA    171,904       5     430,076      510,204                80,128
  TN    625,263      15   1,564,309    1,530,612     33,697
  KY    621,832      15   1,555,725    1,530,612     25,113
  OH    937,901      21   2,346,479    2,142,858    203,621
  IN    343,030       9     858,206      918,368                60,162
  IL    157,146       5     393,154      510,204               117,050
  MO    130,419       4     326,288      408,163                81,875
  AR     28,557       3      71,445      306,122               234,677
  MI     31,625       3      79,121      306,102               227,001
  Total
     11,991,168     294  30,000,000   30,000,000  1,486,291  1,486,291

SPECIAL MESSAGES. The occasion seems to be appropriate to present a letter from her on the
subject of the publication of a work of great political interest and ability, carefully prepared
by Mr. Madison's own hand, under circumstances that give it claims to be considered as little
less than official.

Congress has already, at considerable expense, published in a variety of forms the naked journals
of the Revolutionary Congress and of the Convention that formed the Constitution of the United
States. I am persuaded that the work of Mr. Madison, considering the author, the subject-matter
of it, and the circumstances under which it was prepared--long withheld from the public, as
it has been, by those motives of personal kindness and delicacy that gave tone to his intercourse
with his fellow-men, until he and all who had been participators with him in the scenes he
describes have passed away--well deserves to become the property of the nation, and can not
fail, if published and disseminated at the public charge, to confer the most important of all
benefits on the present and all succeeding generations--accurate knowledge of the principles
of their Government and the circumstances under which they were recommended and embodied in
the Constitution for adoption.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

July 9, 1836.

The Secretary of State has the honor to report to the President that there is no resolution
of Congress on the death of Mr. Madison on file in the Department of State. By application
at the offices of the Secretary of the Senate and Clerk of the House of Representatives the
inclosed certified copy of a set of resolutions has been procured. These resolutions, being
joint, should have been enrolled, signed by the presiding officers of the two Houses, and submitted
for the Executive approbation. By referring to the proceedings on the death of General Washington
such a course appears to have been thought requisite, but in this case it has been deemed unnecessary
or has been omitted accidentally. The value of the public expression of sympathy would be so
much diminished by postponement to the next session that the Secretary has thought it best
to present the papers, incomplete as they are, as the basis of such a letter as the President
may think proper to direct to Mrs. Madison.

JOHN FORSYTH,

Secretary of State.

WASHINGTON, July 9, 1836.

Mrs. D.P. MADISON,

Montpelier, Va.

MADAM: It appearing to have been the intention of Congress to make me the organ of assuring
you of the profound respect entertained by both its branches for your person and character,
and of their sincere condolence in the late afflicting dispensation of Providence, which has
at once deprived you of a beloved companion and your country of one of its most valued citizens,
I perform that duty by transmitting the documents herewith inclosed.

No expression of my own sensibility at the loss sustained by yourself and the nation could
add to the consolation to be derived from these high evidences of the public sympathy. Be assured,
madam, that there is not one of your countrymen who feels more poignantly the stroke which
has fallen upon you or who will cherish with a more endearing constancy the memory of the virtues,
the services, and the purity of the illustrious man whose glorious and patriotic life has been
just terminated by a tranquil death.

I have the honor to be, madam, your most obedient servant,

ANDREW JACKSON.

Resolved, That it be recommended to the people of the United States to wear crape on the left
arm, as mourning, for thirty days.

MONTPELIER, August 20, 1836.

The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:

I received, sir, in due time, your letter conveying to me the resolutions Congress were pleased
to adopt on the occasion of the death of my beloved husband--a communication made the more
grateful by the kind expression of your sympathy which it contained.

The high and just estimation of my husband by my countrymen and friends and their generous
participation in the sorrow occasioned by our irretrievable loss, expressed through their supreme
authorities and otherwise, are the only solace of which my heart is susceptible on the departure
of him who had never lost sight of that consistency, symmetry, and beauty of character in all
its parts which secured to him the love and admiration of his country, and which must ever
be the subject of peculiar and tender reverence to one whose happiness was derived from their
daily and constant exercise.

The best return I can make for the sympathy of my country is to fulfill the sacred trust his
confidence reposed in me, that of placing before it and the world what his pen prepared for
their use--a legacy the importance of which is deeply impressed on my mind.

With great respect,

D.P. MADISON.

MONTPELIER, November 15, 1836.

The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

SIR: The will of my late husband, James Madison, contains the following provision:

"Considering the peculiarity and magnitude of the occasion which produced the Convention at
Philadelphia in 1787, the characters who composed it, the Constitution which resulted from
their deliberations, its effects during a trial of so many years on the prosperity of the people
living under it, and the interest it has inspired among the friends of free government, it
is not an unreasonable inference that a careful and extended report of the proceedings and
discussions of that body, which were with closed doors, by a member who was constant in his
attendance, will be particularly gratifying to the people of the United States and to all who
take an interest in the progress of political science and the cause of true liberty."

This provision bears evidence of the value he set on his report of the debates in the Convention,
and he has charged legacies on them alone to the amount of $1,200 for the benefit of literary
institutions and for benevolent purposes, leaving the residuary net proceeds for the use of
his widow.

In a paper written by him, and which it is proposed to annex as a preface to the Debates, he
traces the formation of confederacies and of the Articles of Confederation, its defects which
caused and the steps which led to the Convention, his reasons for taking the debates and the
manner in which he executed the task, and his opinion of the framers of the Constitution. From
this I extract his description of the manner in which they were taken, as it guarantees their
fullness and accuracy:

"In pursuance of the task I had assumed, I chose a seat in front of the presiding member, with
the other members on my right and left hands. In this favorable position for hearing all that
passed I noted down, in terms legible and in abbreviations and marks intelligible to myself,
what was read from the chair or spoken by the members, and losing not a moment unnecessarily
between the adjournment and reassembling of the Convention, I was enabled to write out my daily
notes during the session, or within a few finishing days after its close, in the extent and
form preserved in my own hand on my files.

"In the labor and correctness of this I was not a little aided by practice and by a familiarity
with the style and the train of observation and reasoning which characterized the principal
speakers. It happened also that I was not absent a single day, nor more than the casual fraction
of an hour in any day, so that I could not have lost a single speech, unless a very short one."

However prevailing the restraint which veiled during the life of Mr. Madison this record of
the creation of our Constitution, the grave, which has closed over all those who participated
in its formation, has separated their acts from all that is personal to him or to them. His
anxiety for their early publicity after this was removed may be inferred from his having them
transcribed and revised by himself; and, it may be added, the known wishes of his illustrious
friend Thomas Jefferson and other distinguished patriots, the important light they would shed
for present as well as future usefulness, besides my desire to fulfill the pecuniary obligations
imposed by his will, urged their appearance without awaiting the preparation of his other works,
and early measures were accordingly adopted by me to ascertain from publishers in various parts
of the Union the terms on which their publication could be effected.

It was also intended to publish with these debates those taken by him in the Congress of the
Confederation in 1782, 1783, and 1787, of which he was then a member, and selections made by
himself and prepared under his eye from his letters narrating the proceedings of that body
during the periods of his service in it, prefixing the debates in 1776 on the Declaration of
Independence by Thomas Jefferson so as to embody all the memorials in that shape known to exist.
This exposé of the situation of the country under the Confederation and the defects of the
old system of government evidenced in the proceedings under it seem to convey such preceding
information as should accompany the debates on the formation of the Constitution by which it
was superseded.

The proposals which have been received, so far from corresponding with the expectations of
Mr. Madison when he charged the first of these works with those legacies, have evidenced that
their publication could not be engaged in by me without advances of funds and involving of
risks which I am not in a situation to make or incur.

Under these circumstances, I have been induced to submit for your consideration whether the
publication of these debates be a matter of sufficient interest to the people of the United
States to deserve to be brought to the notice of Congress; and should such be the estimation
of the utility of these works by the representatives of the nation as to induce them to relieve
me individually from the obstacles which impede it, their general circulation will be insured
and the people be remunerated by its more economical distribution among them.

With high respect and consideration,

D.P. MADISON.

WASHINGTON, December 6, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DECEMBER 20, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives.

GENTLEMEN: Herewith I transmit a report of the Postmaster-General, and recommend the passage
of such laws and the making of such appropriations as may be necessary to carry into effect
the measures adopted by him for resuming the business of the Department under his charge and
securing the public property in the old Post-Office building.

It is understood that the building procured for the temporary use of the Department is far
from being fireproof, and that the valuable books and papers saved from the recent conflagration
will there be exposed to similar dangers. I therefore feel it my duty to recommend an immediate
appropriation for the construction of a fireproof General Post-Office, that the materials may
be obtained within the present winter and the buildings erected as rapidly as practicable.

ANDREW JACKSON.

POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT,

December 20, 1836.

The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

SIR: On the morning of the 15th instant I performed the painful duty of reporting to you orally
the destruction of the General Post-Office building by fire, and received your instructions
to inquire into the cause and extent of the calamity, for the purpose of enabling you to make
a communication to Congress.

A few hours afterwards I received, through the chairman of the Committee on the Post-Office
and Post-Roads of the House of Representatives, an official copy of a resolution adopted by
that House, instructing the committee to institute a similar inquiry, and the chairman asked
for such information as it was in my power to give. The investigation directed by you was thus
rendered unnecessary.

The corporation of the city of Washington with honorable promptitude offered the Department
the use of the west wing of the City Hall, now occupied by the mayor and councils and their
officers and the officers of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company. The proprietors of the
medical college also tendered the use of their building on E street, and offers were made of
several other buildings in the central parts of the city. An examination was made of such as
promise by their magnitude to afford sufficient room for the force employed in the Department,
but none were found equal in the commodiousness of their interior structure and abundant room
to Fuller's Hotel, opposite the buildings occupied by the Treasury Department on Pennsylvania
avenue. That building has been obtained on terms which the accompanying papers (marked 1 and
2) will fully exhibit. The business of the Department will be immediately resumed in that building.

The agreement with Mr. Fuller will make necessary an immediate appropriation by Congress, and
upon that body will devolve also the duty of providing for the payment of the rent, if they
shall approve of the arrangement.

In the meantime steps have been taken to secure all that is valuable in the ruins of the Post-Office
building, and to protect from the weather the walls of so much of it as was occupied by the
General Post-Office which stand firm.

The Department has no fund at command out of which the services necessary in the accomplishment
of these objects can be paid for, nor has it the means to replace the furniture which has been
lost and must be immediately obtained to enable the clerks to proceed with their current business.

These facts I deem it my duty to report to you, that you may recommend to Congress such measures
thereupon as you may deem expedient.

With the highest respect, your obedient servant,

AMOS KENDALL.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 20, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 21, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

During the last session information was given to Congress by the Executive that measures had
been taken to ascertain "the political, military, and civil condition of Texas." I now submit
for your consideration extracts from the report of the agent who had been appointed to collect
it relative to the condition of that country.

No steps have been taken by the Executive toward the acknowledgment of the independence of
Texas, and the whole subject would have been left without further remark on the information
now given to Congress were it not that the two Houses at their last session, acting separately,
passed resolutions "that the independence of Texas ought to be acknowledged by the United States
whenever satisfactory information should be received that it had in successful operation a
civil government capable of performing the duties and fulfilling the obligations of an independent
power." This mark of interest in the question of the independence of Texas and indication of
the views of Congress make it proper that I should somewhat in detail present the considerations
that have governed the Executive in continuing to occupy the ground previously taken in the
contest between Mexico and Texas.

The acknowledgment of a new state as independent and entitled to a place in the family of nations
is at all times an act of great delicacy and responsibility, but more especially so when such
state has forcibly separated itself from another of which it had formed an integral part and
which still claims dominion over it. A premature recognition under these circumstances, if
not looked upon as justifiable cause of war, is always liable to be regarded as a proof of
an unfriendly spirit to one of the contending parties. All questions relative to the government
of foreign nations, whether of the Old or the New World, have been treated by the United States
as questions of fact only, and our predecessors have cautiously abstained from deciding upon
them until the clearest evidence was in their possession to enable them not only to decide
correctly, but to shield their decisions from every unworthy imputation. In all the contests
that have arisen out of the revolutions of France, out of the disputes relating to the crowns
of Portugal and Spain, out of the revolutionary movements of those Kingdoms, out of the separation
of the American possessions of both from the European Governments, and out of the numerous
and constantly occurring struggles for dominion in Spanish America, so wisely consistent with
our just principles has been the action of our Government that we have under the most critical
circumstances avoided all censure and encountered no other evil than that produced by a transient
estrangement of good will in those against whom we have been by force of evidence compelled
to decide.

It has thus been made known to the world that the uniform policy and practice of the United
States is to avoid all interference in disputes which merely relate to the internal government
of other nations, and eventually to recognize the authority of the prevailing party, without
reference to our particular interests and views or to the merits of the original controversy.
Public opinion here is so firmly established and well understood in favor of this policy that
no serious disagreement has ever arisen among ourselves in relation to it, although brought
under review in a variety of forms and at periods when the minds of the people were greatly
excited by the agitation of topics purely domestic in their character. Nor has any deliberate
inquiry ever been instituted in Congress or in any of our legislative bodies as to whom belonged
the power of originally recognizing a new State--a power the exercise of which is equivalent
under some circumstances to a declaration of war; a power nowhere expressly delegated, and
only granted in the Constitution as it is necessarily involved in some of the great powers
given to Congress, in that given to the President and Senate to form treaties with foreign
powers and to appoint ambassadors and other public ministers, and in that conferred upon the
President to receive ministers from foreign nations.

In the preamble to the resolution of the House of Representatives it is distinctly intimated
that the expediency of recognizing the independence of Texas should be left to the decision
of Congress. In this view, on the ground of expediency, I am disposed to concur, and do not,
therefore, consider it necessary to express any opinion as to the strict constitutional right
of the Executive, either apart from or in conjunction with the Senate, over the subject. It
is to be presumed that on no future occasion will a dispute arise, as none has heretofore occurred,
between the Executive and Legislature in the exercise of the power of recognition. It will
always be considered consistent with the spirit of the Constitution, and most safe, that it
should be exercised, when probably leading to war, with a previous understanding with that
body by whom war can alone be declared, and by whom all the provisions for sustaining its perils
must be furnished. Its submission to Congress, which represents in one of its branches the
States of this Union and in the other the people of the United States, where there may be reasonable
ground to apprehend so grave a consequence, would certainly afford the fullest satisfaction
to our own country and a perfect guaranty to all other nations of the justice and prudence
of the measures which might be adopted.

In making these suggestions it is not my purpose to relieve myself from the responsibility
of expressing my own opinions of the course the interests of our country prescribe and its
honor permits us to follow.

It is scarcely to be imagined that a question of this character could be presented in relation
to which it would be more difficult for the United States to avoid exciting the suspicion and
jealousy of other powers, and maintain their established character for fair and impartial dealing.
But on this, as on every trying occasion, safety is to be found in a rigid adherence to principle.

In the contest between Spain and her revolted colonies we stood aloof and waited, not only
until the ability of the new States to protect themselves was fully established, but until
the danger of their being again subjugated had entirely passed away. Then, and not till then,
were they recognized. Such was our course in regard to Mexico herself. The same policy was
observed in all the disputes growing out of the separation into distinct governments of those
Spanish American States who began or carried on the contest with the parent country united
under one form of government. We acknowledged the separate independence of New Granada, of
Venezuela, and of Ecuador only after their independent existence was no longer a subject of
dispute or was actually acquiesced in by those with whom they had been previously united. It
is true that, with regard to Texas, the civil authority of Mexico has been expelled, its invading
army defeated, the chief of the Republic himself captured, and all present power to control
the newly organized Government of Texas annihilated within its confines. But, on the other
hand, there is, in appearance at least, an immense disparity of physical force on the side
of Mexico. The Mexican Republic under another executive is rallying its forces under a new
leader and menacing a fresh invasion to recover its lost dominion.

Upon the issue of this threatened invasion the independence of Texas may be considered as suspended,
and were there nothing peculiar in the relative situation of the United States and Texas our
acknowledgment of its independence at such a crisis could scarcely be regarded as consistent
with that prudent reserve with which we have heretofore held ourselves bound to treat all similar
questions. But there are circumstances in the relations of the two countries which require
us to act on this occasion with even more than our wonted caution. Texas was once claimed as
a part of our property, and there are those among our citizens who, always reluctant to abandon
that claim, can not but regard with solicitude the prospect of the reunion of the territory
to this country. A large proportion of its civilized inhabitants are emigrants from the United
States, speak the same language with ourselves, cherish the same principles, political and
religious, and are bound to many of our citizens by ties of friendship and kindred blood; and,
more than all, it is known that the people of that country have instituted the same form of
government with our own, and have since the close of your last session openly resolved, on
the acknowledgment by us of their independence, to seek admission into the Union as one of
the Federal States. This last circumstance is a matter of peculiar delicacy, and forces upon
us considerations of the gravest character. The title of Texas to the territory she claims
is identified with her independence. She asks us to acknowledge that title to the territory,
with an avowed design to treat immediately of its transfer to the United States. It becomes
us to beware of a too early movement, as it might subject us, however unjustly, to the imputation
of seeking to establish the claim of our neighbors to a territory with a view to its subsequent
acquisition by ourselves. Prudence, therefore, seems to dictate that we should still stand
aloof and maintain our present attitude, if not until Mexico itself or one of the great foreign
powers shall recognize the independence of the new Government, at least until the lapse of
time or the course of events shall have proved beyond cavil or dispute the ability of the people
of that country to maintain their separate sovereignty and to uphold the Government constituted
by them. Neither of the contending parties can justly complain of this course. By pursuing
it we are but carrying out the long-established policy of our Government--a policy which has
secured to us respect and influence abroad and inspired confidence at home.

Having thus discharged my duty, by presenting with simplicity and directness the views which
after much reflection I have been led to take of this important subject, I have only to add
the expression of my confidence that if Congress shall differ with me upon it their judgment
will be the result of dispassionate, prudent, and wise deliberation, with the assurance that
during the short time I shall continue connected with the Government I shall promptly and cordially
unite with you in such measures as may be deemed best fitted to increase the prosperity and
perpetuate the peace of our favored country.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DECEMBER 26, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 26, 1836.

To the Senate of the United States:

I nominate William Gates, late major of the First Regiment of Artillery, for reappointment
in the Army, to be major in the Second Regiment of Artillery, to take rank from the 30th May,
1832, the date of his former commission. This officer was stricken from the rolls of the Army
by my order on the 7th of June last, upon a full consideration by me of the proceedings of
a court of inquiry held at his request for the purpose of investigating his conduct during
and subsequent to the attack on Fort Barnwell, at Volusia, in Florida, in April last, which
court, after mature deliberation on the testimony before them, expressed the opinion "that
the effective force under the command of Major Gates was much greater than the estimated force
of the Indians who attacked him on the morning of the 14th of April, 1836, and that therefore
he was capable of meeting the enemy in the field if necessary; also, that the bodies of two
volunteers killed were improperly left exposed, and ought to have been brought in on the morning
when they were killed, such exposure necessarily operating injuriously on the garrison." He
is now nominated for a reappointment to the end that he may be brought to trial before a court-martial,
such a trial being solicited by him.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December, 1836.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

By the second section of the act "to establish the northern boundary line of the State of Ohio,
and to provide for the admission of the State of Michigan into the Union upon the conditions
therein expressed," approved June 15, 1836, the constitution and State government which the
people of Michigan had formed for themselves was ratified and confirmed and the State of Michigan
declared to be one of the United States of America, and admitted into the Union upon an equal
footing with the original States, but on the express condition that the said State should consist
of and have jurisdiction over all the territory included within certain boundaries described
in the act, and over none other. It was further enacted by the third section of the same law
that, as a compliance with the fundamental condition of admission, the boundaries of the State
of Michigan, as thus described, declared, and established, should "receive the assent of a
convention of delegates elected by the people of said State for the sole purpose of giving
the assent" therein required; that as soon as such assent should be given the President of
the United States should announce the same by proclamation, and that thereupon, and without
any further proceeding on the part of Congress, the admission of the State into the Union as
one of the United States of America should be considered as complete, and the Senators and
Representatives in the Congress of the United States entitled to take their seats without further
delay.

In the month of November last I received a communication inclosing the official proceedings
of a convention assembled at Ann Arbor, in Michigan, on the 26th of September, 1836, all which
(marked A) are herewith laid before you. It will be seen by these papers that the convention
therein referred to was elected by the people of Michigan pursuant to an act of the State legislature
passed on the 25th of July last in consequence of the above-mentioned act of Congress, and
that it declined giving its assent to the fundamental condition prescribed by Congress, and
rejected the same.

On the 24th instant the accompanying paper (marked B), with its inclosure, containing the proceedings
of a convention of delegates subsequently elected and held in the State of Michigan, was presented
to me. By these papers, which are also herewith submitted for your consideration, it appears
that elections were held in all the counties of the State, except two, on the 5th and 6th days
of December instant, for the purpose of electing a convention of delegates to give the assent
required by Congress; that the delegates then elected assembled in convention on the 14th day
of December instant, and that on the following day the assent of the body to the fundamental
condition above stated was formally given.

This latter convention was not held or elected by virtue of any act of the Territorial or State
legislature; it originated from the people themselves, and was chosen by them in pursuance
of resolutions adopted in primary assemblies held in the respective counties. The act of Congress,
however, does not prescribe by what authority the convention shall be ordered, or the time
when or the manner in which it shall be chosen. Had these latter proceedings come to me during
the recess of Congress, I should therefore have felt it my duty, on being satisfied that they
emanated from a convention of delegates elected in point of fact by the people of the State
for the purpose required, to have issued my proclamation thereon as provided by law; but as
the authority conferred on the President was evidently given to him under the expectation that
the assent of the convention might be laid before him during the recess of Congress and to
avoid the delay of a postponement until the meeting of that body, and as the circumstances
which now attend the case are in other respects peculiar and such as could not have been foreseen
when the act of June 15, 1836, was passed, I deem it most agreeable to the intent of that law,
and proper for other reasons, that the whole subject should be submitted to the decision of
Congress. The importance of your early action upon it is too obvious to need remark.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, December 28, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 22: Relating to the bequest of James Smithson.]

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit to the Senate a report[23] of the Secretary of the Navy, complying with their resolution
of the 24th of May, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

DECEMBER 29, 1836.

[Footnote 23: Relating to the survey of the harbors south of the Chesapeake.]

WASHINGTON, December 30, 1836.

ANDREW JACKSON.

ANDREW JACKSON. I recommend the modifications proposed in the report.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 7, 1837.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

I herewith transmit to Congress a report of the Secretary of State, with the accompanying letter,
addressed to him by the commission appointed under the act of Congress of the last session
for carrying into effect the convention between the United States and Spain.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 9, 1837.

To the Senate of the United States:

Immediately after the passage by the Senate, at a former session, of the resolution requesting
the President to consider the expediency of opening negotiations with the governments of other
nations, and particularly with the Governments of Central America and New Granada, for the
purpose of effectually protecting, by equitable treaty stipulations with them, such individuals
or companies as might undertake to open a communication between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans
by the construction of a ship canal across the isthmus which connects North and South America,
and of securing forever by such stipulations the free and equal right of navigating such canal
to all such nations on the payment of such reasonable tolls as ought to be established to compensate
the capitalists who might engage in such undertaking and complete the work, an agent was employed
to obtain information in respect to the situation and character of the country through which
the line of communication, if established, would necessarily pass, and the state of the projects
which were understood to be contemplated for opening such communication by a canal or a railroad.
The agent returned to the United States in September last, and although the information collected
by him is not as full as could have been desired, yet it is sufficient to show that the probability
of an early execution of any of the projects which have been set on foot for the construction
of the communication alluded to is not so great as to render it expedient to open a negotiation
at present with any foreign government upon the subject.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 17, 1837.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

I hereby submit to the House of Representatives certain communications from the Secretary of
the Treasury and the attorney of the United States for the District of Columbia. They relate
to the difficulties which have been interposed under the existing laws in bringing to conviction
and punishment the supposed incendiaries of the Treasury buildings in the year 1833.

The peculiar circumstances of this case, so long concealed, and of the flagrant frauds by persons
disconnected with the Government, which were still longer concealed, and to screen some of
which forever was probably a principal inducement to the burning of the buildings, lead me
earnestly to recommend a revision of the laws on this subject. I do this with a wish not only
to render the punishment hereafter more severe for the wanton destruction of the public property,
but to repeal entirely the statute of limitation in all criminal cases, except small misdemeanors,
and in no event to allow a party to avail himself of its benefits during the period the commission
of the crime was kept concealed or the persons on trial were not suspected of having perpetrated
the offense.

It must be manifest to Congress that the exposed state of the public records here, without
fireproof buildings, imperatively requires the most ample remedies for their protection, and
the greatest vigilance and fidelity in all officers, whether executive or judicial, in bringing
to condign punishment the real offenders.

Without these the public property is in that deplorable situation which depends quite as much
on accident and good fortune as the laws, for safety.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[The same message was sent to the Senate.]

WASHINGTON, January 17, 1837. A copy of the act, duly authenticated, has been deposited in
the Department of State.

ANDREW JACKSON.

JANUARY 18, 1837.

To the Senate of the United States:

In compliance with a resolution of the Senate at their last session, I herewith transmit the
inclosed documents, which contain all the information on the subject of the claim of the heirs
of George Galphin within the power of the Executive.

ANDREW JACKSON. No other communication on the subject of the resolution referred to has been
made to the Executive by any other foreign government, or by any person claiming to act in
behalf of Mexico.

ANDREW JACKSON.

The President of the Mexican Republic to the President of the United States.

COLUMBIA, IN TEXAS, July 4, 1836.

His Excellency General ANDREW JACKSON,

President of the United States of America.

MUCH ESTEEMED SIR: In fulfillment of the duties which patriotism and honor impose upon a public
man, I came to this country at the head of 6,000 Mexicans. The chances of war, made inevitable
by circumstances, reduced me to the condition of a prisoner, in which I still remain, as you
may have already learned. The disposition evinced by General Samuel Houston, the commander
in chief of the Texan army, and by his successor, General Thomas J. Rusk, for the termination
of the war; the decision of the President and cabinet of Texas in favor of a proper compromise
between the contending parties, and my own conviction, produced the conventions of which I
send you copies inclosed, and the orders given by me to General Filisola, my second in command,
to retire from the river Brasos, where he was posted, to the other side of the river Bravo
del Norte.

As there was no doubt that General Filisola would religiously comply, as far as concerned himself,
the President and cabinet agreed that I should set off for Mexico, in order to fulfill the
other engagements, and with that intent I embarked on board the schooner Invincible, which
was to carry me to the port of Vera Cruz. Unfortunately, however, some indiscreet persons raised
a mob, which obliged the authorities to have me landed by force and brought back into strict
captivity. This incident has prevented me from going to Mexico, where I should otherwise have
arrived early in last month; and in consequence of it the Government of that country, doubtless
ignorant of what has occurred, has withdrawn the command of the army from General Filisola
and has ordered his successor, General Urrea, to continue its operations, in obedience to which
order that general is, according to the latest accounts, already at the river Nueces. In vain
have some reflecting and worthy men endeavored to demonstrate the necessity of moderation and
of my going to Mexico according to the convention; but the excitement of the public mind has
increased with the return of the Mexican army to Texas. Such is the state of things here at
present. The continuation of the war and of its disasters is therefore inevitable unless the
voice of reason be heard in proper time from the mouth of some powerful individual. It appears
to me that you, sir, have it in your power to perform this good office, by interfering in favor
of the execution of the said convention, which shall be strictly fulfilled on my part. When
I offered to treat with this Government, I was convinced that it was useless for Mexico to
continue the war. I have acquired exact information respecting this country which I did not
possess four months ago. I have too much zeal for the interests of my country to wish for anything
which is not compatible with them. Being always ready to sacrifice myself for its glory and
advantage, I never would have hesitated to subject myself to torments or death rather than
consent to any compromise if Mexico could thereby have obtained the slightest benefit. I am
firmly convinced that it is proper to terminate this question by political negotiation. That
conviction alone determined me sincerely to agree to what has been stipulated, and in the same
spirit I make to you this frank declaration. Be pleased, sir, to favor me by a like confidence
on your part. Afford me the satisfaction of avoiding approaching evils and of contributing
to that good which my heart advises. Let us enter into negotiations by which the friendship
between your nation and the Mexican may be strengthened, both being amicably engaged in giving
being and stability to a people who are desirous of appearing in the political world, and who,
under the protection of the two nations, will attain its object within a few years.

The Mexicans are magnanimous when treated with consideration. I will clearly set before them
the proper and humane reasons which require noble and frank conduct on their part, and I doubt
not that they will act thus as soon as they have been convinced.

By what I have here submitted you will see the sentiments which animate me, and with which
I remain, your most humble and obedient servant,

ANTONIO LOPEZ DE SANTA ANNA.

The President of the United States to the President of the Mexican Republic.

HERMITAGE, September 4, 1836.

General ANTONIO LOPEZ DE SANTA ANNA.

SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4th day of July last,
which has been forwarded to me by General Samuel Houston, under cover of one from him, transmitted
by an express from General Gaines, who is in command of the United States forces on the Texan
frontier. The great object of these communications appears to be to put an end to the disasters
which necessarily attend the civil war now raging in Texas, and asking the interposition of
the United States in furthering so humane and desirable a purpose. That any well-intended effort
of yours in aid of this object should have been defeated is calculated to excite the regret
of all who justly appreciate the blessings of peace, and who take an interest in the causes
which contribute to the prosperity of Mexico in her domestic as well as her foreign relations.

The Government of the United States is ever anxious to cultivate peace and friendship with
all nations; but it proceeds on the principle that all nations have the right to alter, amend,
or change their own government as the sovereign power--the people--may direct. In this respect
it never interferes with the policy of other powers, nor can it permit any on the part of others
with its internal policy. Consistently with this principle, whatever we can do to restore peace
between contending nations or remove the causes of misunderstanding is cheerfully at the service
of those who are willing to rely upon our good offices as a friend or mediator.

In reference, however, to the agreement which you, as the representative of Mexico, have made
with Texas, and which invites the interposition of the United States, you will at once see
that we are forbidden by the character of the communications made to us through the Mexican
minister from considering it. That Government has notified us that as long as you are a prisoner
no act of yours will be regarded as binding by the Mexican authorities. Under these circumstances
it will be manifest to you that good faith to Mexico, as well as the general principle to which
I have adverted as forming the basis of our intercourse with all foreign powers, make it impossible
for me to take any step like that you have anticipated. If, however, Mexico should signify
her willingness to avail herself of our good offices in bringing about the desirable result
you have described, nothing could give me more pleasure than to devote my best services to
it. To be instrumental in terminating the evils of civil war and in substituting in their stead
the blessings of peace is a divine privilege. Every government and the people of all countries
should feel it their highest happiness to enjoy an opportunity of thus manifesting their love
of each other and their interest in the general principles which apply to them all as members
of the common family of man.

Your letter, and that of General Houston, commander in chief of the Texan army, will be made
the basis of an early interview with the Mexican minister at Washington. They will hasten my
return to Washington, to which place I will set out in a few days, expecting to reach it by
the its of October. In the meantime I hope Mexico and Texas, feeling that war is the greatest
of calamities, will pause before another campaign is undertaken and can add to the number of
those scenes of bloodshed which have already marked the progress of their contest and have
given so much pain to their Christian friends throughout the world.

This is sent under cover to General Houston, who will give it a safe conveyance to you.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

ANDREW JACKSON.

JANUARY 19, 1837.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

I herewith transmit a copy of the annual report of the Director of the Mint, showing the operations
of the institution during the past year and also the progress made toward completion of the
branch mints in North Carolina, Georgia, and Louisiana.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 20, 1837.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In compliance with the act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1829, I herewith transmit to Congress
the report of the board of inspectors of the penitentiary of Washington, and beg leave to draw
their attention to the fact presented with the report, "that the inspectors have received no
compensation for their services for two years, viz, 1829 and 1830," and request that an appropriation
be made for the same.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, January 21, 1837.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit, for your constitutional action, a report from the War Department, accompanied by
a treaty with the Stockbridge and Munsee Indians.

ANDREW JACKSON.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 25: Relating to the condition of the political relations between the United States
and Mexico, and to the condition of Texas.]

WASHINGTON, January 27, 1837.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith certain papers from the War Department, relative to the improvement of
Brunswick Harbor, Georgia.

ANDREW JACKSON.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 6, 1837. The President begs leave to add that he trusts that all facilities
will be given to this exploring expedition that Congress can bestow and the honor of the nation
demands.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 26: Relating to the South Sea exploring expedition.]

WASHINGTON, February 6, 1837.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

At the beginning of this session Congress was informed that our claims upon Mexico had not
been adjusted, but that notwithstanding the irritating effect upon her councils of the movements
in Texas, I hoped, by great forbearance, to avoid the necessity of again bringing the subject
of them to your notice. That hope has been disappointed. Having in vain urged upon that Government
the justice of those claims and my indispensable obligation to insist that there should be
"no further delay in the acknowledgment, if not in the redress, of the injuries complained
of," my duty requires that the whole subject should be presented, as it now is, for the action
of Congress, whose exclusive right it is to decide on the further measures of redress to be
employed.

The documents herewith transmitted, with those accompanying my message in answer to a call
of the House of Representatives of the 17th ultimo, will enable Congress to judge of the propriety
of the course heretofore pursued and to decide upon the necessity of that now recommended.

If these views should fail to meet the concurrence of Congress, and that body be able to find
in the condition of the affairs between the two countries, as disclosed by the accompanying
documents, with those referred to, any well-grounded reasons to hope that an adjustment of
the controversy between them can be effected without a resort to the measures I have felt it
my duty to recommend, they may be assured of my cooperation in any other course that shall
be deemed honorable and proper.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 7, 1837.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit communications from the War Department relating to the treaty with the Sacs and
Foxes recently submitted to the Senate.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 7, 1837.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February, 1837.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit, for your consideration and action, a treaty with certain Potawatamie Indians, accompanied
by a report from the War Department.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 9, 1837.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

I communicate to Congress printed copies of the treaty of peace and commerce between the United
States and the Empire of Morocco, concluded at Meccanez on the 16th day of September last,
and duly ratified by the respective Governments.

ANDREW JACKSON.

ANDREW JACKSON.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 27: Relating to the seizure of slaves on board the brigs Encomium and Enterprise
by the authorities of Bermuda and New Providence.]

WASHINGTON CITY, February 14, 1837.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a copy of the instructions, prepared under my direction by the War Department,
for the commissioners appointed by me, in pursuance of the request contained in the resolution
adopted by the House of Representatives on the 1st of July last, to investigate the causes
of the hostilities then existing with the Creek Indians, and also copies of the reports on
that subject received from the commissioners.

ANDREW JACKSON.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 15, 1837.

ANDREW JACKSON.

ANDREW JACKSON.

[Footnote 28: Correspondence of William Tudor, Jr., while consul, etc., of the United States
to Peru and chargé d'affaires at Rio de Janeiro.]

WASHINGTON, February 24, 1837.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit a letter from the Secretary of War ad interim, accompanied by various documents,
in relation to a survey recently made of the mouths of the Mississippi River under a law of
the last session of Congress.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, March 3, 1837.

To the Senate of the United States:

In the month of October last, the office of Secretary of War being vacant, I appointed Benjamin
F. Butler, of the State of New York, to perform the duties thereof during the pleasure of the
President, but with the expectation that the office would be otherwise filled, on the nomination
of my successor, immediately on the commencement of his term of service. This expectation I
have reason to believe will be fulfilled, but as it is necessary in the present state of the
public service that the vacancy should actually occur, and as it is doubtful whether Mr. Butler
can act under his present appointment after the expiration of the present session of the Senate,
I hereby nominate the said Benjamin F. Butler to be Secretary of War of the United States,
to hold the said office during the pleasure of the President until a successor duly appointed
shall accept such office and enter on the duties thereof. Since that time the subject has been
repeatedly discussed in both branches of the Legislature. These discussions have resulted in
the insertion of a clause in the general appropriation law passed by both Houses providing
for the outfit and salary of a diplomatic agent to be sent to the Republic of Texas whenever
the President of the United States may receive satisfactory evidence that Texas is an independent
power and shall deem it expedient to appoint such minister, and in the adoption of a resolution
by the Senate, the constitutional advisers of the Executive on the diplomatic intercourse of
the United States with foreign powers, expressing the opinion that "the State of Texas having
established and maintained an independent government capable of performing those duties, foreign
and domestic, which appertain to independent governments, and it appearing that there is no
longer any reasonable prospect of the successful prosecution of the war by Mexico against said
State, it is expedient and proper and in conformity with the laws of nations and the practice
of this Government in like cases that the independent political existence of said State be
acknowledged by the Government of the United States." Regarding these proceedings as a virtual
decision of the question submitted by me to Congress, I think it my duty to acquiesce therein,
and therefore I nominate Alcee La Branche, of Louisiana, to be chargé d'affaires to the Republic
of Texas.

ANDREW JACKSON.

VETO MESSAGE.[29]

[Footnote 29: Pocket veto. This message was never sent to Congress, but was deposited in the
Department of State.]

MARCH 3, 1837--11.45 p.m.

The bill from the Senate entitled "An act designating and limiting the funds receivable for
the revenues of the United States" came to my hands yesterday at 2 o'clock p. m. On perusing
it I found its provisions so complex and uncertain that I deemed it necessary to obtain the
opinion of the Attorney-General of the United States on several important questions touching
its construction and effect before I could decide on the disposition to be made of it. The
Attorney-General took up the subject immediately, and his reply was reported to me this day
at 5 o'clock p. m., and is hereunto annexed. As this officer, after a careful and laborious
examination of the bill and a distinct expression of his opinion on the points proposed to
him still came to the conclusion that the construction of the bill, should it become a law,
would yet be a subject of much perplexity and doubt (a view of the bill entirely coincident
with my own), and as I can not think it proper, in a matter of such vital interest and of such
constant application, to approve a bill so liable to diversity of interpretations, and more
especially as I have not had time, amid the duties constantly pressing on me, to give the subject
that deliberate consideration which its importance demands, I am constrained to retain the
bill, without acting definitively thereon; and to the end that my reasons for this step may
be fully understood I shall cause this paper, with the opinion of the Attorney-General and
the bill in question, to be deposited in the Department of State.

ANDREW JACKSON.

ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S OFFICE,

March 3, 1837.

The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. These questions may be arranged under three general heads,
and in that order I shall proceed to reply to them.

I. Will the proposed bill, if approved, repeal or alter the laws now in force designating the
currency required to be received in payment of the public dues, for lands or otherwise?

Will it compel the Treasury officers to receive the notes of specie-paying banks having the
characteristics described in its first and second sections?

In what respect does it differ from and how far will it change the joint resolution of April
30, 1816?

Answer. In order to a correct reply to this question, and indeed to any other question arising
on this obscurely penned bill, we must first obtain a general view of all its provisions.

The first section requires the Secretary of the Treasury to take measures for collecting the
public revenue, first, in the legal currency of the United States (i.e., gold and silver),
or, second, in the notes of such specie-paying banks as shall from time to time conform to
certain conditions in regard to small bills, described in the section. This section does not
expressly give the Secretary power to direct that any particular notes shall be received for
lands or for duties, but it forbids the receipt of any paper currency other than such bank
notes as are described in the section; and it requires the Secretary to adopt measures, in
his discretion, to effectuate that prohibition.

The second section extends the prohibition still further, by forbidding the receipt of any
notes which the banks in which they are to be deposited shall not, under the supervision and
control of the Secretary of the Treasury, agree to pass to the credit of the United States
as cash; to which is added a proviso authorizing the Secretary to withdraw the public deposits
from any bank which shall refuse to receive as cash from the United States any notes receivable
under the law which such bank receives in the ordinary course of business on general deposit.

The third and last section allows the receipt, as heretofore, of land scrip and Treasury certificates
for public lands, and forbids the Secretary of the Treasury to make any discrimination in the
funds receivable (other than such as results from the receipt of land scrip or Treasury certificates)
between the different branches of the public revenue.

From this analysis of the bill it appears that, so far as regards bank notes, the bill designates
and limits then: receivableness for the revenues of the United States, first, by forbidding
the receipts of any except such as have all the characteristics described in the first and
second sections of the bill, and, secondly, by restraining the Secretary of the Treasury from
making any discrimination in this respect between the different branches of the public revenue.
In this way the bill performs, to a certain extent, the office of "designating and limiting
the funds receivable for the revenues of the United States," as mentioned in its title; but
it would seem from what has been stated that it is only in this way that any such office is
performed. This impression will be fully confirmed as we proceed.

The bill, should it be approved, will be supplementary to the laws now in force relating to
the same subject, but as it contains no repealing clause no provision of those former laws,
except such as may be plainly repugnant to the present bill, will be repealed by it.

The existing laws embraced in the above question, and applicable to the subject, are:

First. As to duties on goods imported.--The seventy-fourth section of the collection law of
the 2d of March, 1799, the first of which, reenacting in this respect the act of the 31st of
July, 1789, provides "that all duties and fees to be collected shall be payable in money of
the United States or in foreign gold and silver coins at the following rates," etc. The residue
of the section, as to rates, has been altered by subsequent laws, and the clause quoted was
varied during the existence of the Bank of the United States, the notes of which were expressly
made receivable in all payments to the United States, and during the existence of the act making
Treasury notes receivable by such act; but in no other respects has it ever been repealed.

Second. As to public lands.--The general land law of the 10th of May, 1800, section 5, provided
that no lands should be sold, "at either public or private sale, for less than $2 per acre,
and payment may be made for the same by all purchasers either in specie or in evidences of
the public debt of the United States, at the rates prescribed" by a prior law. This provision
was varied by the acts relative to Treasury notes and the Bank of the United States in like
manner as above mentioned. The second section of the general land law of the 24th of April,
1820, abrogated the allowance of credits on the sale of public lands after the its day of July
then next; required every purchaser at public sale to make complete payment on the day of purchase,
and the purchaser at private sale to produce to the register a receipt from the Treasurer of
the United States or from the receiver of the district for the amount of the purchase money.
The proviso to the fourth section of the same law enacted, in respect to reverted lands and
lands remaining unsold, that they should not be sold for less price than $1.25 per acre, "nor
on any other terms than that of cash payment." This latter act has been further modified by
the allowing Virginia land scrip to be received in payment for public lands.

Third. It is known to you, however, that distinguished names have been vouched for the opinion
that the resolution was mandatory as to the notes of all specie-paying banks; that the debtor
had the right, at his option, to make payment in such notes, and that if tendered by him the
Treasury officers had no discretion to refuse them.

It is thus seen that the laws now in force, so far as they positively
enjoin the receipt of any particular currency in payment of public
dues, are confined to gold and silver, except that in certain cases
Virginia land scrip and Treasury certificates are directed to be
received on the sale of public lands. In my opinion, there is nothing in
the bill before me repugnant to those laws. The bill does not expressly
 declare and enact that any particular species of currency shall be
receivable in payment of the public revenue. On the contrary, as the
provisions of the first and second sections are chiefly of a negative
character, I think they do not take away the power of the Secretary,
previously possessed under the acts of Congress, and as the agent of
the President, to forbid the receipt of any bank notes which are not
by some act of Congress expressly made absolutely receivable in payment
of the public dues.

The above view will, I think, be confirmed by a closer examination of the bill.

The question then arises: Are bank notes having the requisite characteristics placed by the
clause just quoted on the same footing with the legal currency, so as to make it the duty of
the Secretary of the Treasury to allow the receipt of them when tendered by the debtor? In
my judgment, such is not the effect of the provision. The form of one of these provisions (the
fourteenth section of the act incorporating the late Bank of the United States) will illustrate
the idea I desire to present:

"SEC. 14. And be it further enacted, That the bills or notes of the said corporation, originally
made payable, or which shall have become payable, on demand, shall be receivable in all payments
to the United States, unless otherwise directed by act of Congress."

The difference between the language there used and that employed in the present bill is too
obvious to require comment. It is true that the word "or," when it occurs in wills and agreements,
is sometimes construed to mean "and," in order to give effect to the plain intent of the parties;
and such a construction of the word may sometimes be given when it occurs in statutes, where
the general intent of the lawmakers evidently requires it. But this construction of the word
in the present case is not only unnecessary, but, in my opinion, repugnant to the whole scope
of the bill, which, so far from commanding the public officers to receive bank notes in cases
not required by the existing laws, introduces several new prohibitions on the receipt of such
notes.

Nor do I think this one of those cases in which a choice is given to the debtor to pay in one
or other of two descriptions of currency, both of which are receivable by law. The option given
by that resolution continued in force so long as the laws providing and declaring that Treasury
notes and notes of the Bank of the United States should be receivable in payments to the United
States, and ceased when those laws expired. The distinction between that description of paper
currency which is by law expressly made receivable in payment of public dues, and the notes
of the State banks, which were only permitted to be received, is plainly marked in the resolution
of 1816. While the former are placed on the same footing with the legal currency, because by
previous laws it had been so "provided and declared" the latter were left to be received or
not received, at the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, except that he was restricted
from allowing any to be received which were not payable and paid on demand in the legal currency.
The bank notes spoken of in the bill before me, having never been made receivable by law, must
be regarded as belonging to the latter class, and not to the former; and there can therefore
be no greater obligation under the present bill, should it become a law, to receive them in
payment than there was to receive the paper of the State banks under the resolution of 1816.

As to the difference between this bill and the joint resolution of 1816, the bill differs from
that resolution in the following particulars:

First. It says nothing of Treasury notes and the notes of the Bank of the United States, which
by the resolution of 1816 are recognized as having been made receivable by laws then in force
in payment of public dues of all descriptions.

Second. It abridges the discretion left with the Secretary of the Treasury by that resolution,
by positively forbidding the receipt of bank notes not having the characteristics described
in the first and second sections of the bill; whereas the receipt of some of the notes so forbidden
might, under the resolution of 1816, have been allowed by the Secretary.

Third. It forbids the making of any discrimination in respect to the receipt of bank notes
between the different branches of the public revenue; whereas the Secretary of the Treasury,
under the resolution of 1816, was subject to no such restraint, and had the power to make the
discrimination forbidden by the bill, except as to the notes of the Bank of the United States
and Treasury notes.

This bill, if approved, will change the resolution of 1816, so far as it now remains in force,
in the second and third particulars just mentioned, but in my opinion, as already suggested,
will change it in no other respect.

II. What is the extent of the supervision and control allowed by this bill to the Secretary
of the Treasury over the notes to be received by the deposit banks?

And does it allow him to direct what particular notes shall or shall not be received for lands
or for duties?

Answer. After maturely considering, so far as time has been allowed me, the several provisions
of the bill, I think the following conclusions may fairly be drawn from them when taken in
connection with the laws now in force, and above referred to, and that should it become a law
they will probably express its legal effect.

First. That the Secretary of the Treasury can not direct the receipt of any notes except such
as are issued by banks which conform to the first section of the law and such as will be passed
by the proper deposit bank to the credit of the United States as cash.

Second. That he may direct the receipt of notes issued by banks which conform to the first
section, provided the deposit bank in which the notes are to be deposited shall agree to credit
them as cash.

Third. That if the deposit bank in which the money is to be deposited shall refuse to receive
as cash the notes designated by the Secretary, and which such bank receives in the ordinary
course of business on general deposit, he may withdraw the public deposits and select another
depository which will agree to receive them.

Fourth. That if he can not find a depository which will so agree, then that the Secretary can
not direct or authorize the receipt of any notes except such as the deposit bank primarily
entitled to the deposits will agree to receive and deposit as cash.

Fifth. That although a deposit bank might be willing to receive from the collectors and receivers,
and to credit as cash, notes of certain banks which conform to the first section, yet, for
the reasons before stated, I am of opinion that the Secretary is not obliged to allow the receipt
of such notes.

Sixth. The Secretary is forbidden to make any discrimination in the funds receivable "between
the different branches of the public revenue," and therefore, though he may forbid the receipt
of the notes of any particular bank or class of banks not excluded by the bill, and may forbid
the receipt of notes of denominations larger than those named in the bill, yet when he issues
any such prohibition it must apply to all the branches of the public revenue.

Seventh. If I am right in the foregoing propositions, the result will be that the proposed
law will leave in the Secretary of the Treasury power to prohibit the receipt of particular
notes provided his prohibition apply to both lands and duties, and power to direct what particular
notes allowed by the law shall be received provided he can find a deposit bank which will agree
to receive and [credit] them as cash.

III. Are the deposit banks the sole judges under this bill of what notes they will receive,
or are they bound to receive the notes of every specie-paying bank, chartered or unchartered,
wherever situated, in any part of the United States?

Answer. In my opinion the deposit banks, under the bill in question, will be the sole judges
of the notes to be received by them from any collector or receiver of public money, and they
will not be bound to receive the notes of any other bank whose notes they may choose to reject,
provided they apply the same rule to the United States which they apply to their own depositors.
In other words, the general rule as to what notes are to be received as cash, prescribed by
each deposit bank for the regulation of its ordinary business, must be complied with by the
collectors and receivers whose moneys are to be deposited with that bank. But it will not therefore
follow that those officers will be bound to receive what the bank generally receives, because,
as already stated, they may refuse of their own accord, or under the direction of the Secretary
of the Treasury, any bank notes not expressly directed by act of Congress to be received in
payment of the public dues.

I have thus answered the several questions proposed on the bill before me; and though I have
been necessarily obliged to examine the subject with much haste, I have no other doubts as
to the soundness of the construction above given than such as belong to discussions of this
nature and to a proper sense of the fallibility of human judgment. It is, however, my duty
to remind you that very different opinions were expressed in the course of the debates on the
proposed law by some of the members who took part therein. It would seem from these debates
that the bill, in some instances at least, was supported under the impression that it would
compel the Treasury officers to receive all bank notes possessing all the characteristics described
in the first and second sections, and that the Secretary of the Treasury would have no power
to forbid their receipt. It must be confessed that the language is sufficiently ambiguous to
give some plausibility to such a construction, and that it seems to derive some support from
the refusal of the House of Representatives to consider an amendment reported by the Committee
of Ways and Means of that House, which would substantially have given the bill, in explicit
terms, the interpretation I have put on it, and have removed the uncertainty which now pervades
it. Under these circumstances it may reasonably be expected that the true meaning of the bill,
should it be passed into a law, will become a subject of discussion and controversy, and probably
remain involved in much perplexity and doubt until it shall have been settled by a judicial
decision. How far these latter considerations are to be regarded by you in your decision on
the bill is a question which belongs to another place, and on which, therefore, I forbear to
enlarge in this communication. I have the honor to be, sir, with high respect, your obedient
servant,

B.F. BUTLER.

SEC. 2.

SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That this act shall not be so construed as to prohibit receivers
or collectors of the dues of the Government from receiving for the public lands any kind of
land scrip or Treasury certificates now authorized by law, but the same shall hereafter be
received for the public lands in the same way and manner as has heretofore been practiced;
and it shall not be lawful for the Secretary of the Treasury to make any discrimination in
the funds receivable between the different branches of the public revenue, except as is provided
in this section.

ASBURY DICKINS,

Secretary.

PROCLAMATION.

[From Senate Journal, Twenty-fourth Congress, second session, p. 355.]

DECEMBER 20, 1836.

The President of the United States to ------,  Senator for the State of ------.

By virtue of the power vested in me by the Constitution, I hereby convene the Senate of the
United States to meet in the Senate Chamber on the 4th day of March next, at 10 o'clock in
the forenoon, to receive any communication the President of the United States may think it
his duty to make.

ANDREW JACKSON.

EXECUTIVE ORDERS.

WAR DEPARTMENT,

February 15, 1837.

Major-General ALEXANDER MACOMB,

President of the Court of Inquiry, etc.

SIR: I have the honor to inclose a copy of the opinion of the President of the United States
on the proceedings of the court of inquiry of which you are president, relative to the campaign
against the Creek Indians, and, in compliance with the direction at the close thereof, to transmit
herewith those proceedings, with the documentary evidence referred to therein, for the further
action of the court.

Very respectfully, your most obedient servant,

B.F. BUTLER,

Secretary of War ad interim.

P.S.--The proceedings and a portion of the documents accompany this. The balance of the documents
(except Nos. 204 and 209, which will be sent to-morrow) are in a separate package, and sent
by the same mail.

WASHINGTON, February 14, 1837.

The President has carefully examined the proceedings of the court of inquiry recently held
at the city of Frederick, by virtue of Orders Nos. 65 and 68, so far as the same relate to
the causes of the delay in opening and prosecuting the campaign in Georgia and Alabama against
the hostile Creek Indians in the year 1836, and has maturely considered the opinion of the
court on this part of the subject referred to it.

It appears from the proceedings that after the testimony of nine witnesses had been received
by the court, and after more than one hundred documents bearing on the subject had also been
produced in evidence, and after Major-General Scott had addressed the court on the subject,
the court proceeded to pronounce its opinion, as follows:

  Upon a careful examination of the abundant testimony taken in the
  foregoing case the court is of opinion that no delay which it was
  practicable to have avoided was made by Major-General Scott in opening
  the campaign against the Creek Indians. On the contrary, it appears
  that he took the earliest measures to provide arms, munitions, and
  provisions for his forces, who were found almost wholly destitute; and
  as soon as arms could be put into the hands of the volunteers they
  were, in succession, detached and placed in position to prevent the
  enemy from retiring upon Florida, and whence they could move against
  the main body of the enemy as soon as equipped for offensive
  operations.

  From the testimony of the governor of Georgia, of Major-General
  Sanford, commander of the Georgia volunteers, and many other witnesses
  of high rank and standing who were acquainted with the topography of
  the country and the position and strength of the enemy, the court is
  of opinion that the plan of campaign adopted by Major-General Scott
  was well calculated to lead to successful results, and that it was
  prosecuted by him, as far as practicable, with zeal and ability, until
  recalled from the command upon representations made by Major-General
  Jesup, his second in command, from Fort Mitchell, in a letter bearing
  date the 20th of June, 1836, addressed to F.P. Blair, esq., at
  Washington, marked "private," containing a request that it be shown to
  the President; which letter was exposed and brought to light by the
  dignified and magnanimous act of the President in causing it to be
  placed on file in the Department of War as an official document, and
  which forms part of the proceedings. (See Document No. 214.) Conduct
  so extraordinary and inexplicable on the part of Major-General Jesup,
  in reference to the character of said letter, should, in the opinion
  of the court, be investigated.

The foregoing opinion is not accompanied by any report of the facts in the case, as required
by the order constituting the court; on the contrary, the facts are left to be gathered from
the mass of oral and documentary evidence contained in the proceedings, and thus a most important
part of the duty assigned to the court remains unexecuted. Had the court stated the facts of
the case as established to its satisfaction by the evidence before it, the President, on comparing
such state of facts found by the court with its opinion, would have distinctly understood the
views entertained by the court in respect to the degree of promptitude and energy which ought
to be displayed in a campaign against Indians--and one which the President's examination of
the evidence has not supplied, inasmuch as he has no means of knowing whether the conclusions
drawn by him from the evidence agree with those of the court. Had the court found a state of
facts, as required by the order constituting it, the uncertainty now existing in this part
of the opinion would have been obviated and the justice of the opinion itself readily determined.

That part of the opinion of the court which animadverts on the letter addressed by Major-General
Jesup to F.P. Blair, esq., bearing date the 20th of June, 1836, and which presents the same
as a subject demanding investigation, appears to the President to be wholly unauthorized by
the order constituting the court, and by which its jurisdiction was confined to an inquiry
into the causes of the delay in opening and prosecuting the campaign against the hostile Creeks
and into such subjects as were connected with the military operations in that campaign. The
causes of the recall of Major-General Scott from the command and the propriety or impropriety
of the conduct of General Jesup in writing the letter referred to were not submitted to the
court as subjects of inquiry. The court itself appears to have been of this opinion, inasmuch
as no notice was given to General Jesup of the pendency of the proceedings, nor had he any
opportunity to cross-examine and interrogate the witnesses, nor to be heard in respect to his
conduct in the matter remarked on by the court.

The Secretary of War ad interim will cause the proceedings of the court on the subject of the
campaign against the Creek Indians, with the documentary evidence referred to therein and a
copy of the foregoing opinion, to be transmitted to Major-General Alexander Macomb, president
of the court, for the proper action thereon.

ANDREW JACKSON.

WASHINGTON, February 18, 1837.

The proceedings of the court of inquiry recently assembled and still sitting at Frederick by
virtue of Orders Nos. 65 and 68, so far as the same relate to the causes of the failure of
the campaign of Major-General Scott against the Seminole Indians in 1836, were heretofore submitted
to the President, and the examination thereof suspended in consequence of the necessary connection
between the case of Major-General Scott and that of Major-General Gaines, also referred to
the same court, and not yet reported on. Certain other proceedings of the same court having
been since examined by the President, and having been found defective, and therefore remitted
to the court for reconsideration, the President has deemed it proper, in order to expedite
the matter, to look into the first-mentioned proceedings for the purpose of ascertaining whether
or not the like defects existed therein.

FAREWELL ADDRESS.

MARCH 4, 1837.

FELLOW-CITIZENS: Being about to retire finally from public life, I beg leave to offer you my
grateful thanks for the many proofs of kindness and confidence which I have received at your
hands. It has been my fortune in the discharge of public duties, civil and military, frequently
to have found myself in difficult and trying situations, where prompt decision and energetic
action were necessary, and where the interest of the country required that high responsibilities
should be fearlessly encountered; and it is with the deepest emotions of gratitude that I acknowledge
the continued and unbroken confidence with which you have sustained me in every trial. My public
life has been a long one, and I can not hope that it has at all times been free from errors;
but I have the consolation of knowing that if mistakes have been committed they have not seriously
injured the country I so anxiously endeavored to serve, and at the moment when I surrender
my last public trust I leave this great people prosperous and happy, in the full enjoyment
of liberty and peace, and honored and respected by every nation of the world.

If my humble efforts have in any degree contributed to preserve to you these blessings, I have
been more than rewarded by the honors you have heaped upon me, and, above all, by the generous
confidence with which you have supported me in every peril, and with which you have continued
to animate and cheer my path to the closing hour of my political life. The time has now come
when advanced age and a broken frame warn me to retire from public concerns, but the recollection
of the many favors you have bestowed upon me is engraven upon my heart, and I have felt that
I could not part from your service without making this public acknowledgment of the gratitude
I owe you. And if I use the occasion to offer to you the counsels of age and experience, you
will, I trust, receive them with the same indulgent kindness which you have so often extended
to me, and will at least see in them an earnest desire to perpetuate in this favored land the
blessings of liberty and equal law.

We have now lived almost fifty years under the Constitution framed by the sages and patriots
of the Revolution. The conflicts in which the nations of Europe were engaged during a great
part of this period, the spirit in which they waged war against each other, and our intimate
commercial connections with every part of the civilized world rendered it a time of much difficulty
for the Government of the United States. We have had our seasons of peace and of war, with
all the evils which precede or follow a state of hostility with powerful nations. We encountered
these trials with our Constitution yet in its infancy, and under the disadvantages which a
new and untried government must always feel when it is called upon to put forth its whole strength
without the lights of experience to guide it or the weight of precedents to justify its measures.
But we have passed triumphantly through all these difficulties. Our Constitution is no longer
a doubtful experiment, and at the end of nearly half a century we find that it has preserved
unimpaired the liberties of the people, secured the rights of property, and that our country
has improved and is flourishing beyond any former example in the history of nations.

In our domestic concerns there is everything to encourage us, and if you are true to yourselves
nothing can impede your march to the highest point of national prosperity. The States which
had so long been retarded in their improvement by the Indian tribes residing in the midst of
them are at length relieved from the evil, and this unhappy race--the original dwellers in
our land--are now placed in a situation where we may well hope that they will share in the
blessings of civilization and be saved from that degradation and destruction to which they
were rapidly hastening while they remained in the States; and while the safety and comfort
of our own citizens have been greatly promoted by their removal, the philanthropist will rejoice
that the remnant of that ill-fated race has been at length placed beyond the reach of injury
or oppression, and that the paternal care of the General Government will hereafter watch over
them and protect them.

If we turn to our relations with foreign powers, we find our condition equally gratifying.
Actuated by the sincere desire to do justice to every nation and to preserve the blessings
of peace, our intercourse with them has been conducted on the part of this Government in the
spirit of frankness; and I take pleasure in saying that it has generally been met in a corresponding
temper. Difficulties of old standing have been surmounted by friendly discussion and the mutual
desire to be just, and the claims of our citizens, which had been long withheld, have at length
been acknowledged and adjusted and satisfactory arrangements made for their final payment;
and with a limited, and I trust a temporary, exception, our relations with every foreign power
are now of the most friendly character, our commerce continually expanding, and our flag respected
in every quarter of the world.

These cheering and grateful prospects and these multiplied favors we owe, under Providence,
to the adoption of the Federal Constitution. It is no longer a question whether this great
country can remain happily united and flourish under our present form of government. Experience,
the unerring test of all human undertakings, has shown the wisdom and foresight of those who
formed it, and has proved that in the union of these States there is a sure foundation for
the brightest hopes of freedom and for the happiness of the people. At every hazard and by
every sacrifice this Union must be preserved.

The necessity of watching with jealous anxiety for the preservation of the Union was earnestly
pressed upon his fellow-citizens by the Father of his Country in his Farewell Address. He has
there told us that "while experience shall not have demonstrated its impracticability, there
will always be reason to distrust the patriotism of those who in any quarter may endeavor to
weaken its bands;" and he has cautioned us in the strongest terms against the formation of
parties on geographical discriminations, as one of the means which might disturb our Union
and to which designing men would be likely to resort.

The lessons contained in this invaluable legacy of Washington to his countrymen should be cherished
in the heart of every citizen to the latest generation; and perhaps at no period of time could
they be more usefully remembered than at the present moment; for when we look upon the scenes
that are passing around us and dwell upon the pages of his parting address, his paternal counsels
would seem to be not merely the offspring of wisdom and foresight, but the voice of prophecy,
foretelling events and warning us of the evil to come. Forty years have passed since this imperishable
document was given to his countrymen. The Federal Constitution was then regarded by him as
an experiment--and he so speaks of it in his Address--but an experiment upon the success of
which the best hopes of his country depended; and we all know that he was prepared to lay down
his life, if necessary, to secure to it a full and a fair trial. The trial has been made. It
has succeeded beyond the proudest hopes of those who framed it. Every quarter of this widely
extended nation has felt its blessings and shared in the general prosperity produced by its
adoption. But amid this general prosperity and splendid success the dangers of which he warned
us are becoming every day more evident, and the signs of evil are sufficiently apparent to
awaken the deepest anxiety in the bosom of the patriot. We behold systematic efforts publicly
made to sow the seeds of discord between different parts of the United States and to place
party divisions directly upon geographical distinctions; to excite the South against the North
and the North against the South, and to force into the controversy the most delicate and exciting
topics--topics upon which it is impossible that a large portion of the Union can ever speak
without strong emotion. Appeals, too, are constantly made to sectional interests in order to
influence the election of the Chief Magistrate, as if it were desired that he should favor
a particular quarter of the country instead of fulfilling the duties of his station with impartial
justice to all; and the possible dissolution of the Union has at length become an ordinary
and familiar subject of discussion. Has the warning voice of Washington been forgotten, or
have designs already been formed to sever the Union? Let it not be supposed that I impute to
all of those who have taken an active part in these unwise and unprofitable discussions a want
of patriotism or of public virtue. The honorable feeling of State pride and local attachments
finds a place in the bosoms of the most enlightened and pure. But while such men are conscious
of their own integrity and honesty of purpose, they ought never to forget that the citizens
of other States are their political brethren, and that however mistaken they may be in their
views, the great body of them are equally honest and upright with themselves. Mutual suspicions
and reproaches may in time create mutual hostility, and artful and designing men will always
be found who are ready to foment these fatal divisions and to inflame the natural jealousies
of different sections of the country. The history of the world is full of such examples, and
especially the history of republics.

What have you to gain by division and dissension? Delude not yourselves with the belief that
a breach once made may be afterwards repaired. If the Union is once severed, the line of separation
will grow wider and wider, and the controversies which are now debated and settled in the halls
of legislation will then be tried in fields of battle and determined by the sword. Neither
should you deceive yourselves with the hope that the first line of separation would be the
permanent one, and that nothing but harmony and concord would be found in the new associations
formed upon the dissolution of this Union. Local interests would still be found there, and
unchastened ambition. And if the recollection of common dangers, in which the people of these
United States stood side by side against the common foe, the memory of victories won by their
united valor, the prosperity and happiness they have enjoyed under the present Constitution,
the proud name they bear as citizens of this great Republic--if all these recollections and
proofs of common interest are not strong enough to bind us together as one people, what tie
will hold united the new divisions of empire when these bonds have been broken and this Union
dissevered? The first line of separation would not last for a single generation; new fragments
would be torn off, new leaders would spring up, and this great and glorious Republic would
soon be broken into a multitude of petty States, without commerce, without credit, jealous
of one another, armed for mutual aggression, loaded with taxes to pay armies and leaders, seeking
aid against each other from foreign powers, insulted and trampled upon by the nations of Europe,
until, harassed with conflicts and humbled and debased in spirit, they would be ready to submit
to the absolute dominion of any military adventurer and to surrender their liberty for the
sake of repose. It is impossible to look on the consequences that would inevitably follow the
destruction of this Government and not feel indignant when we hear cold calculations about
the value of the Union and have so constantly before us a line of conduct so well calculated
to weaken its ties.

There is too much at stake to allow pride or passion to influence your decision. Never for
a moment believe that the great body of the citizens of any State or States can deliberately
intend to do wrong. They may, under the influence of temporary excitement or misguided opinions,
commit mistakes; they may be misled for a time by the suggestions of self-interest; but in
a community so enlightened and patriotic as the people of the United States argument will soon
make them sensible of their errors, and when convinced they will be ready to repair them. If
they have no higher or better motives to govern them, they will at least perceive that their
own interest requires them to be just to others, as they hope to receive justice at their hands.

But in order to maintain the Union unimpaired it is absolutely necessary that the laws passed
by the constituted authorities should be faithfully executed in every part of the country,
and that every good citizen should at all times stand ready to put down, with the combined
force of the nation, every attempt at unlawful resistance, under whatever pretext it may be
made or whatever shape it may assume. Unconstitutional or oppressive laws may no doubt be passed
by Congress, either from erroneous views or the want of due consideration; if they are within
the reach of judicial authority, the remedy is easy and peaceful; and if, from the character
of the law, it is an abuse of power not within the control of the judiciary, then free discussion
and calm appeals to reason and to the justice of the people will not fail to redress the wrong.
But until the law shall be declared void by the courts or repealed by Congress no individual
or combination of individuals can be justified in forcibly resisting its execution. It is impossible
that any government can continue to exist upon any other principles. It would cease to be a
government and be unworthy of the name if it had not the power to enforce the execution of
its own laws within its own sphere of action.

It is true that cases may be imagined disclosing such a settled purpose of usurpation and oppression
on the part of the Government as would justify an appeal to arms. These, however, are extreme
cases, which we have no reason to apprehend in a government where the power is in the hands
of a patriotic people. And no citizen who loves his country would in any case whatever resort
to forcible resistance unless he clearly saw that the time had come when a freeman should prefer
death to submission; for if such a struggle is once begun, and the citizens of one section
of the country arrayed in arms against those of another in doubtful conflict, let the battle
result as it may, there will be an end of the Union and with it an end to the hopes of freedom.
The victory of the injured would not secure to them the blessings of liberty; it would avenge
their wrongs, but they would themselves share in the common ruin.

But the Constitution can not be maintained nor the Union preserved, in opposition to public
feeling, by the mere exertion of the coercive powers confided to the General Government. The
foundations must be laid in the affections of the people, in the security it gives to life,
liberty, character, and property in every quarter of the country, and in the fraternal attachment
which the citizens of the several States bear to one another as members of one political family,
mutually contributing to promote the happiness of each other. Hence the citizens of every State
should studiously avoid everything calculated to wound the sensibility or offend the just pride
of the people of other States, and they should frown upon any proceedings within their own
borders likely to disturb the tranquillity of their political brethren in other portions of
the Union. In a country so extensive as the United States, and with pursuits so varied, the
internal regulations of the several States must frequently differ from one another in important
particulars, and this difference is unavoidably increased by the varying principles upon which
the American colonies were originally planted--principles which had taken deep root in their
social relations before the Revolution, and therefore of necessity influencing their policy
since they became free and independent States. But each State has the unquestionable right
to regulate its own internal concerns according to its own pleasure, and while it does not
interfere with the rights of the people of other States or the rights of the Union, every State
must be the sole judge of the measures proper to secure the safety of its citizens and promote
their happiness; and all efforts on the part of people of other States to cast odium upon their
institutions, and all measures calculated to disturb their rights of property or to put in
jeopardy their peace and internal tranquillity, are in direct opposition to the spirit in which
the Union was formed, and must endanger its safety. Motives of philanthropy may be assigned
for this unwarrantable interference, and weak men may persuade themselves for a moment that
they are laboring in the cause of humanity and asserting the rights of the human race; but
everyone, upon sober reflection, will see that nothing but mischief can come from these improper
assaults upon the feelings and rights of others. Rest assured that the men found busy in this
work of discord are not worthy of your confidence, and deserve your strongest reprobation.

In the legislation of Congress also, and in every measure of the General Government, justice
to every portion of the United States should be faithfully observed. No free government can
stand without virtue in the people and a lofty spirit of patriotism, and if the sordid feelings
of mere selfishness shall usurp the place which ought to be filled by public spirit, the legislation
of Congress will soon be converted into a scramble for personal and sectional advantages. Under
our free institutions the citizens of every quarter of our country are capable of attaining
a high degree of prosperity and happiness without seeking to profit themselves at the expense
of others; and every such attempt must in the end fail to succeed, for the people in every
part of the United States are too enlightened not to understand their own rights and interests
and to detect and defeat every effort to gain undue advantages over them; and when such designs
are discovered it naturally provokes resentments which can not always be easily allayed. Justice--full
and ample justice--to every portion of the United States should be the ruling principle of
every freeman, and should guide the deliberations of every public body, whether it be State
or national.

It is well known that there have always been those amongst us who wish to enlarge the powers
of the General Government, and experience would seem to indicate that there is a tendency on
the part of this Government to overstep the boundaries marked out for it by the Constitution.
Its legitimate authority is abundantly sufficient for all the purposes for which it was created
and its powers being expressly enumerated, there can be no justification for claiming anything
beyond them. Every attempt to exercise power beyond these limits should be promptly and firmly
opposed, for one evil example will lead to other measures still more mischievous; and if the
principle of constructive powers or supposed advantages or temporary circumstances shall ever
be permitted to justify the assumption of a power not given by the Constitution, the General
Government will before long absorb all the powers of legislation, and you will have in effect
but one consolidated government. From the extent of our country, its diversified interests,
different pursuits, and different habits, it is too obvious for argument that a single consolidated
government would be wholly inadequate to watch over and protect its interests; and every friend
of our free institutions should be always prepared to maintain unimpaired and in full vigor
the rights and sovereignty of the States and to confine the action of the General Government
strictly to the sphere of its appropriate duties.

There is, perhaps, no one of the powers conferred on the Federal Government so liable to abuse
as the taxing power. The most productive and convenient sources of revenue were necessarily
given to it, that it might be able to perform the important duties imposed upon it; and the
taxes which it lays upon commerce being concealed from the real payer in the price of the article,
they do not so readily attract the attention of the people as smaller sums demanded from them
directly by the taxgatherer. But the tax imposed on goods enhances by so much the price of
the commodity to the consumer, and as many of these duties are imposed on articles of necessity
which are daily used by the great body of the people, the money raised by these imposts is
drawn from their pockets. Congress has no right under the Constitution to take money from the
people unless it is required to execute some one of the specific powers intrusted to the Government;
and if they raise more than is necessary for such purposes, it is an abuse of the power of
taxation, and unjust and oppressive. It may indeed happen that the revenue will sometimes exceed
the amount anticipated when the taxes were laid. When, however, this is ascertained, it is
easy to reduce them, and in such a case it is unquestionably the duty of the Government to
reduce them, for no circumstances can justify it in assuming a power not given to it by the
Constitution nor in taking away the money of the people when it is not needed for the legitimate
wants of the Government.

Plain as these principles appear to be, you will yet find there is a constant effort to induce
the General Government to go beyond the limits of its taxing power and to impose unnecessary
burdens upon the people. Many powerful interests are continually at work to procure heavy duties
on commerce and to swell the revenue beyond the real necessities of the public service, and
the country has already felt the injurious effects of their combined influence. They succeeded
in obtaining a tariff of duties bearing most oppressively on the agricultural and laboring
classes of society and producing a revenue that could not be usefully employed within the range
of the powers conferred upon Congress, and in order to fasten upon the people this unjust and
unequal system of taxation extravagant schemes of internal improvement were got up in various
quarters to squander the money and to purchase support. Thus one unconstitutional measure was
intended to be upheld by another, and the abuse of the power of taxation was to be maintained
by usurping the power of expending the money in internal improvements. You can not have forgotten
the severe and doubtful struggle through which we passed when the executive department of the
Government by its veto endeavored to arrest this prodigal scheme of injustice and to bring
back the legislation of Congress to the boundaries prescribed by the Constitution. The good
sense and practical judgment of the people when the subject was brought before them sustained
the course of the Executive, and this plan of unconstitutional expenditures for the purposes
of corrupt influence is, I trust, finally overthrown.

The result of this decision has been felt in the rapid extinguishment of the public debt and
the large accumulation of a surplus in the Treasury, notwithstanding the tariff was reduced
and is now very far below the amount originally contemplated by its advocates. But, rely upon
it, the design to collect an extravagant revenue and to burden you with taxes beyond the economical
wants of the Government is not yet abandoned. The various interests which have combined together
to impose a heavy tariff and to produce an overflowing Treasury are too strong and have too
much at stake to surrender the contest. The corporations and wealthy individuals who are engaged
in large manufacturing establishments desire a high tariff to increase their gains. Designing
politicians will support it to conciliate their favor and to obtain the means of profuse expenditure
for the purpose of purchasing influence in other quarters; and since the people have decided
that the Federal Government can not be permitted to employ its income in internal improvements,
efforts will be made to seduce and mislead the citizens of the several States by holding out
to them the deceitful prospect of benefits to be derived from a surplus revenue collected by
the General Government and annually divided among the States; and if, encouraged by these fallacious
hopes, the States should disregard the principles of economy which ought to characterize every
republican government, and should indulge in lavish expenditures exceeding their resources,
they will before long find themselves oppressed with debts which they are unable to pay, and
the temptation will become irresistible to support a high tariff in order to obtain a surplus
for distribution. Do not allow yourselves, my fellow-citizens, to be misled on this subject.
The Federal Government can not collect a surplus for such purposes without violating the principles
of the Constitution and assuming powers which have not been granted. It is, moreover, a system
of injustice, and if persisted in will inevitably lead to corruption, and must end in ruin.
The surplus revenue will be drawn from the pockets of the people--from the farmer, the mechanic,
and the laboring classes of society; but who will receive it when distributed among the States,
where it is to be disposed of by leading State politicians, who have friends to favor and political
partisans to gratify? It will certainly not be returned to those who paid it and who have most
need of it and are honestly entitled to it. There is but one safe rule, and that is to confine
the General Government rigidly within the sphere of its appropriate duties. It has no power
to raise a revenue or impose taxes except for the purposes enumerated in the Constitution,
and if its income is found to exceed these wants it should be forthwith reduced and the burden
of the people so far lightened.

In reviewing the conflicts which have taken place between different interests in the United
States and the policy pursued since the adoption of our present form of Government, we find
nothing that has produced such deep-seated evil as the course of legislation in relation to
the currency. The Constitution of the United States unquestionably intended to secure to the
people a circulating medium of gold and silver. But the establishment of a national bank by
Congress, with the privilege of issuing paper money receivable in the payment of the public
dues, and the unfortunate course of legislation in the several States upon the same subject,
drove from general circulation the constitutional currency and substituted one of paper in
its place.

It was not easy for men engaged in the ordinary pursuits of business, whose attention had not
been particularly drawn to the subject, to foresee all the consequences of a currency exclusively
of paper, and we ought not on that account to be surprised at the facility with which laws
were obtained to carry into effect the paper system. Honest and even enlightened men are sometimes
misled by the specious and plausible statements of the designing. But experience has now proved
the mischiefs and dangers of a paper currency, and it rests with you to determine whether the
proper remedy shall be applied.

The paper system being founded on public confidence and having of itself no intrinsic value,
it is liable to great and sudden fluctuations, thereby rendering property insecure and the
wages of labor unsteady and uncertain. The corporations which create the paper money can not
be relied upon to keep the circulating medium uniform in amount. In times of prosperity, when
confidence is high, they are tempted by the prospect of gain or by the influence of those who
hope to profit by it to extend their issues of paper beyond the bounds of discretion and the
reasonable demands of business; and when these issues have been pushed on from day to day,
until public confidence is at length shaken, then a reaction takes place, and they immediately
withdraw the credits they have given, suddenly curtail their issues, and produce an unexpected
and ruinous contraction of the circulating medium, which is felt by the whole community. The
banks by this means save themselves, and the mischievous consequences of their imprudence or
cupidity are visited upon the public. Nor does the evil stop here. These ebbs and flows in
the currency and these indiscreet extensions of credit naturally engender a spirit of speculation
injurious to the habits and character of the people. We have already seen its effects in the
wild spirit of speculation in the public lands and various kinds of stock which within the
last year or two seized upon such a multitude of our citizens and threatened to pervade all
classes of society and to withdraw their attention from the sober pursuits of honest industry.
It is not by encouraging this spirit that we shall best preserve public virtue and promote
the true interests of our country; but if your currency continues as exclusively paper as it
now is, it will foster this eager desire to amass wealth without labor; it will multiply the
number of dependents on bank accommodations and bank favors; the temptation to obtain money
at any sacrifice will become stronger and stronger, and inevitably lead to corruption, which
will find its way into your public councils and destroy at no distant day the purity of your
Government. Some of the evils which arise from this system of paper press with peculiar hardship
upon the class of society least able to bear it. A portion of this currency frequently becomes
depreciated or worthless, and all of it is easily counterfeited in such a manner as to require
peculiar skill and much experience to distinguish the counterfeit from the genuine note. These
frauds are most generally perpetrated in the smaller notes, which are used in the daily transactions
of ordinary business, and the losses occasioned by them are commonly thrown upon the laboring
classes of society, whose situation and pursuits put it out of their power to guard themselves
from these impositions, and whose daily wages are necessary for their subsistence. It is the
duty of every government so to regulate its currency as to protect this numerous class, as
far as practicable, from the impositions of avarice and fraud. It is more especially the duty
of the United States, where the Government is emphatically the Government of the people, and
where this respectable portion of our citizens are so proudly distinguished from the laboring
classes of all other nations by their independent spirit, their love of liberty, their intelligence,
and their high tone of moral character. Their industry in peace is the source of our wealth
and their bravery in war has covered us with glory; and the Government of the United States
will but ill discharge its duties if it leaves them a prey to such dishonest impositions. Yet
it is evident that their interests can not be effectually protected unless silver and gold
are restored to circulation.

These views alone of the paper currency are sufficient to call for immediate reform; but there
is another consideration which should still more strongly press it upon your attention.

Recent events have proved that the paper-money system of this country may be used as an engine
to undermine your free institutions, and that those who desire to engross all power in the
hands of the few and to govern by corruption or force are aware of its power and prepared to
employ it. Your banks now furnish your only circulating medium, and money is plenty or scarce
according to the quantity of notes issued by them. While they have capitals not greatly disproportioned
to each other, they are competitors in business, and no one of them can exercise dominion over
the rest; and although in the present state of the currency these banks may and do operate
injuriously upon the habits of business, the pecuniary concerns, and the moral tone of society,
yet, from their number and dispersed situation, they can not combine for the purposes of political
influence, and whatever may be the dispositions of some of them their power of mischief must
necessarily be confined to a narrow space and felt only in their immediate neighborhoods.

But when the charter for the Bank of the United States was obtained from Congress it perfected
the schemes of the paper system and gave to its advocates the position they have struggled
to obtain from the commencement of the Federal Government to the present hour. The immense
capital and peculiar privileges bestowed upon it enabled it to exercise despotic sway over
the other banks in every part of the country. From its superior strength it could seriously
injure, if not destroy, the business of any one of them which might incur its resentment; and
it openly claimed for itself the power of regulating the currency throughout the United States.
In other words, it asserted (and it undoubtedly possessed) the power to make money plenty or
scarce at its pleasure, at any time and in any quarter of the Union, by controlling the issues
of other banks and permitting an expansion or compelling a general contraction of the circulating
medium, according to its own will. The other banking institutions were sensible of its strength,
and they soon generally became its obedient instruments, ready at all times to execute its
mandates; and with the banks necessarily went also that numerous class of persons in our commercial
cities who depend altogether on bank credits for their solvency and means of business, and
who are therefore obliged, for their own safety, to propitiate the favor of the money power
by distinguished zeal and devotion in its service. The result of the ill-advised legislation
which established this great monopoly was to concentrate the whole moneyed power of the Union,
with its boundless means of corruption and its numerous dependents, under the direction and
command of one acknowledged head, thus organizing this particular interest as one body and
securing to it unity and concert of action throughout the United States, and enabling it to
bring forward upon any occasion its entire and undivided strength to support or defeat any
measure of the Government. In the hands of this formidable power, thus perfectly organized,
was also placed unlimited dominion over the amount of the circulating medium, giving it the
power to regulate the value of property and the fruits of labor in every quarter of the Union,
and to bestow prosperity or bring ruin upon any city or section of the country as might best
comport with its own interest or policy.

We are not left to conjecture how the moneyed power, thus organized and with such a weapon
in its hands, would be likely to use it. The distress and alarm which pervaded and agitated
the whole country when the Bank of the United States waged war upon the people in order to
compel them to submit to its demands can not yet be forgotten. The ruthless and unsparing temper
with which whole cities and communities were oppressed, individuals impoverished and ruined,
and a scene of cheerful prosperity suddenly changed into one of gloom and despondency ought
to be indelibly impressed on the memory of the people of the United States. If such was its
power in a time of peace, what would it not have been in a season of war, with an enemy at
your doors? No nation but the freemen of the United States could have come out victorious from
such a contest; yet, if you had not conquered, the Government would have passed from the hands
of the many to the hands of the few, and this organized money power from its secret conclave
would have dictated the choice of your highest officers and compelled you to make peace or
war, as best suited their own wishes. The forms of your Government might for a time have remained,
but its living spirit would have departed from it.

The distress and sufferings inflicted on the people by the bank are some of the fruits of that
system of policy which is continually striving to enlarge the authority of the Federal Government
beyond the limits fixed by the Constitution. The powers enumerated in that instrument do not
confer on Congress the right to establish such a corporation as the Bank of the United States,
and the evil consequences which followed may warn us of the danger of departing from the true
rule of construction and of permitting temporary circumstances or the hope of better promoting
the public welfare to influence in any degree our decisions upon the extent of the authority
of the General Government. Let us abide by the Constitution as it is written, or amend it in
the constitutional mode if it is found to be defective.

The severe lessons of experience will, I doubt not, be sufficient to prevent Congress from
again chartering such a monopoly, even if the Constitution did not present an insuperable objection
to it. But you must remember, my fellow-citizens, that eternal vigilance by the people is the
price of liberty, and that you must pay the price if you wish to secure the blessing. It behooves
you, therefore, to be watchful in your States as well as in the Federal Government. The power
which the moneyed interest can exercise, when concentrated under a single head and with our
present system of currency, was sufficiently demonstrated in the struggle made by the Bank
of the United States. Defeated in the General Government, the same class of intriguers and
politicians will now resort to the States and endeavor to obtain there the same organization
which they failed to perpetuate in the Union; and with specious and deceitful plans of public
advantages and State interests and State pride they will endeavor to establish in the different
States one moneyed institution with overgrown capital and exclusive privileges sufficient to
enable it to control the operations of the other banks. Such an institution will be pregnant
with the same evils produced by the Bank of the United States, although its sphere of action
is more confined, and in the State in which it is chartered the money power will be able to
embody its whole strength and to move together with undivided force to accomplish any object
it may wish to attain. You have already had abundant evidence of its power to inflict injury
upon the agricultural, mechanical, and laboring classes of society, and over those whose engagements
in trade or speculation render them dependent on bank facilities the dominion of the State
monopoly will be absolute and their obedience unlimited. With such a bank and a paper currency
the money power would in a few years govern the State and control its measures, and if a sufficient
number of States can be induced to create such establishments the time will soon come when
it will again take the field against the United States and succeed in perfecting and perpetuating
its organization by a charter from Congress.

It is one of the serious evils of our present system of banking that it enables one class of
society--and that by no means a numerous one--by its control over the currency, to act injuriously
upon the interests of all the others and to exercise more than its just proportion of influence
in political affairs. The agricultural, the mechanical, and the laboring classes have little
or no share in the direction of the great moneyed corporations, and from their habits and the
nature of their pursuits they are incapable of forming extensive combinations to act together
with united force. Such concert of action may sometimes be produced in a single city or in
a small district of country by means of personal communications with each other, but they have
no regular or active correspondence with those who are engaged in similar pursuits in distant
places; they have but little patronage to give to the press, and exercise but a small share
of influence over it; they have no crowd of dependents about them who hope to grow rich without
labor by their countenance and favor, and who are therefore always ready to execute their wishes.
The planter, the farmer, the mechanic, and the laborer all know that their success depends
upon their own industry and economy, and that they must not expect to become suddenly rich
by the fruits of their toil. Yet these classes of society form the great body of the people
of the United States; they are the bone and sinew of the country--men who love liberty and
desire nothing but equal rights and equal laws, and who, moreover, hold the great mass of our
national wealth, although it is distributed in moderate amounts among the millions of freemen
who possess it. But with overwhelming numbers and wealth on their side they are in constant
danger of losing their fair influence in the Government, and with difficulty maintain their
just rights against the incessant efforts daily made to encroach upon them. The mischief springs
from the power which the moneyed interest derives from a paper currency which they are able
to control, from the multitude of corporations with exclusive privileges which they have succeeded
in obtaining in the different States, and which are employed altogether for their benefit;
and unless you become more watchful in your States and check this spirit of monopoly and thirst
for exclusive privileges you will in the end find that the most important powers of Government
have been given or bartered away, and the control over your dearest interests has passed into
the hands of these corporations.

The paper-money system and its natural associations--monopoly and exclusive privileges--have
already struck their roots too deep in the soil, and it will require all your efforts to check
its further growth and to eradicate the evil. The men who profit by the abuses and desire to
perpetuate them will continue to besiege the halls of legislation in the General Government
as well as in the States, and will seek by every artifice to mislead and deceive the public
servants. It is to yourselves that you must look for safety and the means of guarding and perpetuating
your free institutions. In your hands is rightfully placed the sovereignty of the country,
and to you everyone placed in authority is ultimately responsible. It is always in your power
to see that the wishes of the people are carried into faithful execution, and their will, when
once made known, must sooner or later be obeyed; and while the people remain, as I trust they
ever will, uncorrupted and incorruptible, and continue watchful and jealous of their rights,
the Government is safe, and the cause of freedom will continue to triumph over all its enemies.

But it will require steady and persevering exertions on your part to rid yourselves of the
iniquities and mischiefs of the paper system and to check the spirit of monopoly and other
abuses which have sprung up with it, and of which it is the main support. So many interests
are united to resist all reform on this subject that you must not hope the conflict will be
a short one nor success easy. My humble efforts have not been spared during my administration
of the Government to restore the constitutional currency of gold and silver, and something,
I trust, has been done toward the accomplishment of this most desirable object; but enough
yet remains to require all your energy and perseverance. The power, however, is in your hands,
and the remedy must and will be applied if you determine upon it.

While I am thus endeavoring to press upon your attention the principles which I deem of vital
importance in the domestic concerns of the country, I ought not to pass over without notice
the important considerations which should govern your policy toward foreign powers. It is unquestionably
our true interest to cultivate the most friendly understanding with every nation and to avoid
by every honorable means the calamities of war, and we shall best attain this object by frankness
and sincerity in our foreign intercourse, by the prompt and faithful execution of treaties,
and by justice and impartiality in our conduct to all. But no nation, however desirous of peace,
can hope to escape occasional collisions with other powers, and the soundest dictates of policy
require that we should place ourselves in a condition to assert our rights if a resort to force
should ever become necessary. Our local situation, our long line of seacoast, indented by numerous
bays, with deep rivers opening into the interior, as well as our extended and still increasing
commerce, point to the Navy as our natural means of defense. It will in the end be found to
be the cheapest and most effectual, and now is the time, in a season of peace and with an overflowing
revenue, that we can year after year add to its strength without increasing the burdens of
the people. It is your true policy, for your Navy will not only protect your rich and flourishing
commerce in distant seas, but will enable you to reach and annoy the enemy and will give to
defense its greatest efficiency by meeting danger at a distance from home. It is impossible
by any line of fortifications to guard every point from attack against a hostile force advancing
from the ocean and selecting its object, but they are indispensable to protect cities from
bombardment, dockyards and naval arsenals from destruction, to give shelter to merchant vessels
in time of war and to single ships or weaker squadrons when pressed by superior force. Fortifications
of this description can not be too soon completed and armed and placed in a condition of the
most perfect preparation. The abundant means we now possess can not be applied in any manner
more useful to the country, and when this is done and our naval force sufficiently strengthened
and our militia armed we need not fear that any nation will wantonly insult us or needlessly
provoke hostilities. We shall more certainly preserve peace when it is well understood that
we are prepared for war.

In presenting to you, my fellow-citizens, these parting counsels, I have brought before you
the leading principles upon which I endeavored to administer the Government in the high office
with which you twice honored me. Knowing that the path of freedom is continually beset by enemies
who often assume the disguise of friends, I have devoted the last hours of my public life to
warn you of the dangers. The progress of the United States under our free and happy institutions
has surpassed the most sanguine hopes of the founders of the Republic. Our growth has been
rapid beyond all former example in numbers, in wealth, in knowledge, and all the useful arts
which contribute to the comforts and convenience of man, and from the earliest ages of history
to the present day there never have been thirteen millions of people associated in one political
body who enjoyed so much freedom and happiness as the people of these United States. You have
no longer any cause to fear danger from abroad; your strength and power are well known throughout
the civilized world, as well as the high and gallant bearing of your sons. It is from within,
among yourselves--from cupidity, from corruption, from disappointed ambition and inordinate
thirst for power--that factions will be formed and liberty endangered. It is against such designs,
whatever disguise the actors may assume, that you have especially to guard yourselves. You
have the highest of human trusts committed to your care. Providence has showered on this favored
land blessings without number, and has chosen you as the guardians of freedom, to preserve
it for the benefit of the human race. May He who holds in His hands the destinies of nations
make you worthy of the favors He has bestowed and enable you, with pure hearts and pure hands
and sleepless vigilance, to guard and defend to the end of time the great charge He has committed
to your keeping.

My own race is nearly run; advanced age and failing health warn me that before long I must
pass beyond the reach of human events and cease to feel the vicissitudes of human affairs.
I thank God that my life has been spent in a land of liberty and that He has given me a heart
to love my country with the affection of a son. And filled with gratitude for your constant
and unwavering kindness, I bid you a last and affectionate farewell.

ANDREW JACKSON.

