

"The bell is still mine," said he.

She stretched out her hand full of ducats. He replied this third time--

"Gold is dirt, and does not ring."

The old dame then shifted her ground, and turned the discourse another way. She grew mysterious,
and began to entice him by talking of secret arts and of charms by which his cattle might be
made to thrive prodigiously, relating to him all kinds of wonders of them. It was then the
young shepherd began to long, and he lent a willing ear to her tales.

The end of the matter was, that she said to him--

"Hark ye, my child, give me your bell; and see, here is a white stick for you," said she, taking
out a little white stick which had Adam and Eve very ingeniously cut upon it as they were feeding
their flocks in the Garden, with the fattest sheep and lambs dancing before them. There, too,
was the shepherd David, as he stood up with his sling against the giant Goliath. "I will give
you," said the woman, "this stick for the bell, and as long as you drive the cattle with it
they will be sure to thrive. With this you will become a rich shepherd. Your wethers will be
always fat a month sooner than the wethers of other shepherds, and every one of your sheep
will have two pounds of wool more than others, and yet no one will ever be able to see it on them."

The old woman handed him the stick. So mysterious was her gesture, and so strange and bewitching
her smile, that the lad was at once in her power. He grasped eagerly at the stick, gave her
his hand, and cried--

"Done! strike hands! The bell for the stick!"

Cheerfully the old woman took the bell for the stick, and departed like a light breeze over
the field and the heath. He saw her vanish, and she seemed to float away before his eyes like
a mist, and to go off with a slight whiz and whistle that made the shepherd's hair stand on end.

The underground one, however, who, in the shape of an old woman, had wheedled him out of his
bell, had not deceived him. For the underground people dare not lie, but must ever keep their
word--a breach of it being followed by their sudden change into the shape of toads, snakes,
dunghill beetles, wolves, and apes, forms in which they wander about, objects of fear and aversion,
for a long course of years before they are freed. They have, therefore, naturally a great dread
of lying. John Schlagenteufel gave close attention and made trial of his new shepherd's staff,
and he soon found that the old woman had told him the truth, for his flocks and his work, and
all the labour of his hands, prospered with him, and he had wonderful luck, so that there was
not a sheep-owner or head shepherd but was desirous of having him in his employment.

It was not long, however, that he remained an underling. Before he was eighteen years of age
he had got his own flocks, and in the course of a few years was the richest sheep-master in
the whole island of Bergen. At last he was able to buy a knight's estate for himself, and that
estate was Grabitz, close by Rambin, which now belongs to the Lords of Sunde. My father knew
him there, and how from a shepherd's boy he became a nobleman. He always conducted himself
like a prudent, honest, and pious man, who had a good word for every one. He brought up his
sons like gentlemen, and his daughters like ladies, some of whom are still alive, and accounted
people of great consequence.

Well may people who hear such stories wish that they had met with such an adventure, and had
found a little silver bell which the underground people had lost!

MAIDEN SWANWHITE AND MAIDEN FOXTAIL.

There was once upon a time a wicked woman who had a daughter and a step-daughter. The daughter
was ugly and of an evil disposition, but the step-daughter was most beautiful and good, and
all who knew her wished her well. When the girl's step-mother and step-sister saw this they
hated the poor girl.

One day it chanced that she was sent by her step-mother to the well to draw water. When the
girl came there she saw a little hand held out of the water, and a voice said--

"Maiden, beautiful and good, give me your golden apple, and in return for it I will thrice
wish you well."

The girl thought that one who spoke so fairly to her would not do her an ill turn, so she put
the apple into the little hand. Then she bent down over the spring, and, taking care not to
muddy the water, filled her bucket. As she went home the guardian of the well wished that the
girl would become thrice as beautiful as she was, that whenever she laughed a gold ring might
fall from her mouth, and that red roses might spring up wherever she trod. The same hour all
that he wished came to pass. From that day the girl was called the Maiden Swanwhite, and the
fame of her loveliness spread all through the land.

When the wicked step-mother perceived this, she was filled with rage, and she thought how her
own daughter might become as beautiful as Swanwhite. With this object she set herself to learn
all that had happened, and then she sent her own daughter to fetch water. When the wicked girl
had come to the well, she saw a little hand rise up out of the water, and heard a voice which
said--

"Maiden, beautiful and good, give me your gold apple and I will thrice wish thee well."

But the hag's daughter was both wicked and avaricious, and it was not her way to make presents.
She therefore made a dash at the little hand, wished the guardian of the well evil, and said
pettishly--

"You need not think you'll get a gold apple from me."

Then she filled her bucket, muddying the water, and away she went in a rage. The guardian of
the well was enraged, so he wished her three evil wishes, as a punishment for her wickedness.
He wished that she should become three times as ugly as she was, that a dead rat should fall
from her mouth whenever she laughed, and that the fox-tail grass might spring up in the footsteps
wherever she trod. So it was. From that day the wicked girl was called Maiden Foxtail, and
very much talk was there among the folk of her strange looks and her ill-nature. The hag could
not bear her step-daughter should be more beautiful than her own daughter, and poor Swanwhite
had to put up with all the ill-usage and suffering that a step-child can meet with.

Swanwhite had a brother whom she loved very much, and he also loved her with all his heart.
He had long ago left home, and he was now the servant of a king, far, far off in a strange
land. The other servants of the king bore him no good-will because he was liked by his master,
and they wished to ruin him if they could find anything against him.

They watched him closely, and one day, coming to the king, said--

"Lord king, we know well that you do not like evil or vice in your servants. Thence we think
it is only right to tell you that the young foreigner, who is in your service, every morning
and evening bows the knee to an idol."

When the king heard that he set it down to envy and ill-will, and did not think there was any
truth in it, but the courtiers said that he could easily discover for himself whether what
they said was true or not. They led the king to the young man's rooms, and told him to look
through the key-hole. When the king looked in he saw the young man on his knees before a fine
picture, and so he could not help believing that what the courtiers had told him was true.

The king was much enraged, and ordered the young man to come before him, when he condemned
him to die for his great wickedness.

"My lord king," said he, "do not imagine that I worship any idol. That is my sister's picture,
whom I commend to the care of God every morning and evening, asking Him to protect her, for
she remains in a wicked step-mother's power."

The king then wished to see the picture, and he never tired of looking on its beauty.

"If it is true," said he, "what you tell me, that that is your sister's picture, she shall
be my queen, and you yourself shall go and fetch her; but if you lie, this shall be your punishment,--you
shall be cast into the lions' den."

The king then commanded that a ship should be fitted out in grand style, having wine and treasure
in it. Then he sent away the young man in great state to fetch his beautiful sister to the court.

The young man sailed away over the ocean, and came at length to his land. Here he delivered
his master's message, as became him, and made preparations to return. Then the step-mother
and step-sister begged that they might go with him and his sister. The young man had no liking
for them, so he said no, and refused their request, but Swanwhite begged for them, and got
them what they wanted.

When they had put to sea and were on the wide ocean, a great storm arose so that the sailors
expected the vessel and all on her to go to the bottom. The young man was, however, in good
spirits, and went up the mast in order to see if he could discover land anywhere. When he had
looked out from the mast, he called to Swanwhite, who stood on the deck--

"Dear sister, I see land now."

It was, however, blowing so hard that the maiden could not hear a word. She asked her step-mother
if she knew what her brother said.

"Yes," said the false hag; "he says we shall never come to God's land unless you throw your
gold casket into the sea."

When Swanwhite heard that, she did what the hag told her, and cast the gold casket into the
deep sea.

A while after her brother once more called to his sister, who stood on the deck--

"Swanwhite, go and deck yourself as a bride, for we shall soon be there."

But the maiden could not hear a word for the raging of the sea.

While Swanwhite thought of this, the wicked step-mother sprang to her, and thrust her on a
sudden overboard. The young girl was carried away by the blue waves, and came to the mermaid
who rules over all those who are drowned in the sea.

When the young man came down the mast, and asked whether his sister was attired, the step-mother
told him many falsehoods about Swanwhite having fallen into the sea. When the young man heard
this he and all the ship-folk were afraid, for they well knew what punishment awaited them
for having so ill looked after the king's bride. The false hag then thought of another deception.
She said they had better dress her own daughter as the bride, and then no one need know that
Swanwhite had perished. The young man would not agree to this, but the sailors, being in fear
of their lives, made him do as the step-mother had suggested. Maiden Foxtail was dressed out
in the finest manner with red rings and a gold girdle, but the young man was ill at ease, and
could not forget what had happened to his sister.

In the midst of this the vessel came to shore, where was the king with all his court with much
splendour awaiting their arrival. Carpets were spread upon the ground, and the king's bride
left the ship in great state. When the king beheld Maiden Foxtail, and was told that that was
his bride, he suspected some cheat, and was very angry, and he ordered that the young man should
be thrown into the lions' den. He would not, however, break his kingly word, so he took the
ugly maiden for his wife, and she became queen in the place of her step-sister.

Now Maiden Swanwhite had a little dog of which she was very fond, and she called it Snow-white.
Now that its mistress was lost, there was no one who cared for it, so it came into the king's
palace and took refuge in the kitchen, where it lay down in front of the fire. When it was
night and all had gone to bed, the master-cook saw the kitchen door open of itself and a beautiful
little duck, fastened to a chain, came into the kitchen. Wherever the little bird trod the
most beautiful roses sprang up. The duck went up to the dog upon the hearth, and said--

"Poor little Snow-white! Once on a time you lay on blue silk cushions. Now you must lie on
the grey ashes. Ah! my poor brother, who is in the lions' den! Shame on Maiden Foxtail! she
sleeps in my lord's arms."

"Alas, poor me!" continued the duck, "I shall come here only on two more nights. After that
I shall see you no more."

Then it caressed the little dog, and the dog returned its caresses. After a little while the
door opened of itself and the little bird went its way.

The next morning, when it was daylight, the master-cook took the beautiful roses that lay strewn
on the floor and with them decorated the dishes for the king's table. The king so much admired
the flowers that he ordered the master-cook to be called to him, and asked him where he had
found such magnificent roses. The cook told him all that had happened, and what the duck had
said to the little dog. When the king heard it he was much perplexed, and he told the cook
to let him know as soon as the bird showed itself again.

The next night the little duck again came to the kitchen, and spoke to the dog as before. The
cook sent word to the king, and he came just as the bird went out at the door. However he saw
the beautiful roses lying all over the kitchen floor, and from them came such a delightful
scent that the like had never been known.

The king made up his mind that if the duck came again he would see it, so he lay in wait for
it. I shall see thee no more."

Then it caressed the little dog, and the dog returned its caresses. As the bird was about to
go away, the king sprang out and caught it by the foot. Then the bird changed its form and
became a horrible dragon, but the king held it fast. It changed itself again, and took the
forms of snakes, wolves, and other fierce animals, but the king did not lose his hold. Then
the mermaid pulled hard at the chain, but the king held so fast that the chain broke in two
with a great snap and rattling. That moment there stood there a beautiful maiden much more
beautiful than that in the fine picture. She thanked the king for having saved her from the
power of the mermaid. The king was very glad, and took the beautiful maiden in his arms, kissed
her, and said--

"I will have no one else in the world for my queen, and now I well see that your brother was
guiltless."

Then he sent off at once to the lions' den to learn if the young man was yet alive. There the
young man was safe and sound among the wild beasts, which had done him no injury. Then the
king was in a happy mood, and rejoiced that everything had chanced so well. The brother and
sister told him all that the step-mother had done.

When it was daylight the king ordered a great feast to be got ready, and asked the foremost
people in the country to the palace. As they all sat at table and were very merry, the king
told a story of a brother and sister who had been treacherously dealt with by a step-mother,
and he related all that had happened from beginning to end. When the tale was ended the king's
folk looked at one another, and all agreed that the conduct of the step-mother in the tale
was a piece of unexampled wickedness.

The king turned to his mother-in-law, and said--

"Some one should reward my tale. I should like to know what punishment the taking of such an
innocent life deserves."

The false hag did not know that her own treachery was aimed at, so she said boldly--

"For my part, I certainly think she should be put into boiling lead."

The king then turned himself to Foxtail, and said--

"I should like to have your opinion; what punishment is merited by one who takes so innocent
a life?"

The wicked woman answered at once--

"For my part, I think she deserves to be put into boiling tar."

Then the king started up from the table in a great rage, and said--

"You have pronounced doom on yourselves. Such punishment shall you suffer!"

He ordered the two women to be taken out to die as they themselves had said, and no one save
Swanwhite begged him to have mercy on them.

After that the king was married to the beautiful maiden, and all folk agreed that nowhere could
be found a finer queen. The king gave his own sister to the brave young man, and there was
great joy in all the king's palace.

There they live prosperous and happy unto this day, for all I know.

TALES OF TREASURE.

There are still to be seen near Flensborg the ruins of a very ancient building. Two soldiers
once stood on guard there together, but when one of them was gone to the town, it chanced that
a tall white woman came to the other, and spoke to him, and said--

"I am an unhappy spirit, who has wandered here these many hundred years, but never shall I
find rest in the grave."

She then informed him that under the walls of the castle a great treasure was concealed, which
only three men in the whole world could take up, and that he was one of the three. The man,
who now saw that his fortune was made, promised to follow her directions in every particular,
whereupon she desired him to come to the same place at twelve o'clock the following night.

The other soldier meanwhile had come back from the town just as the appointment was made with
his comrade. He said nothing about what, unseen, he had seen and heard, but went early the
next evening and concealed himself amongst some bushes. When his fellow-soldier came with his
spade and shovel he found the white woman at the appointed place, but when she perceived they
were watched she put off the appointed business until the next evening. The man who had lain
on the watch to no purpose went home, and suddenly fell ill; and as he thought he should die
of that sickness, he sent for his comrade, and told him how he knew all, and conjured him not
to have anything to do with witches or with spirits, but rather to seek counsel of the priest,
who was a prudent man. The other thought it would be the wisest plan to follow the advice of
his comrade, so he went and discovered the whole affair to the priest, who, however, desired
him to do as the spirit had bidden him, only he was to make her lay the first hand to the work
herself.

The appointed time was now arrived, and the man was at the place. When the white woman had
pointed out to him the spot, and they were just beginning the work, she said to him that when
the treasure was taken up one-half of it should be his, but that he must divide the other half
equally between the church and the poor. Then the devil entered into the man, and awakened
his covetousness, so that he cried out--

"What! shall I not have the whole?"

Scarcely had he spoken when the figure, with a most mournful wail, passed in a blue flame over
the moat of the castle, and the man fell sick, and died within three days.

The story soon spread through the country, and a poor scholar who heard it thought he had now
an opportunity of making his fortune. He therefore went at midnight to the place, and there
he met with the wandering white woman, and he told her why he was come, and offered his services
to raise the treasure. She, however, answered that he was not one of the three, one of whom
alone could free her, and that the wall in which was the money would still remain so firm that
no human being should be able to break it. She also told him that at some future time he should
be rewarded for his good inclination; and, it is said, when a long time after he passed by
that place, and thought with compassion on the sufferings of the unblest woman, he fell on
his face over a great heap of money, which soon put him again on his feet. The wall still remains
undisturbed, and as often as any one has attempted to throw it down, whatever is thrown down
in the day is replaced again in the night.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three men went once in the night-time to Klumhöi to try their luck, for a dragon watches there
over a great treasure. They dug into the ground, giving each other a strict charge not to utter
a word whatever might happen, otherwise all their labour would be in vain. When they had dug
pretty deep, their spades struck against a copper chest. They then made signs to one another,
and all, with both hands, laid hold of a great copper ring that was on the top of the chest,
and pulled up the treasure. When they had just got it into their possession, one of them forgot
the necessity of silence, and shouted out--

"One pull more, and we have it!"

That very instant the chest flew away out of their hands to the lake Stöierup, but as they
all held hard on the ring it remained in their grasp. They went and fastened the ring on the
door of St. Olaf's church, and there it remains to this very day.

       *       *       *       *       *

Near Dangstrup there is a hill which is called Dangbjerg Dons. Of this hill it is related that
it is at all times covered with a blue mist, and that under it there lies a large copper kettle
full of money. One night two men went there to dig after this treasure, and they had got so
far as to lay hold of the handle of the kettle. All sorts of wonderful things began then to
appear to disturb them at their work. One time a coach, drawn by four black horses, drove by
them. Then they saw a black dog with a fiery tongue. Then there came a cock drawing a load
of hay. Still the men persisted in not letting themselves speak, and still dug on without stopping.
At last a fellow came limping up to them and said--

"See, Dangstrup is on fire!"

When the men looked towards the town, it appeared exactly as if the whole place were in a bright
flame. Then at length one of the men forgot to keep silence, and the moment he uttered an exclamation
the treasure sank deeper and deeper, and as often since as any attempt has been made to get
it up, the trolls have, by their spells and artifices, prevented its success.

HOLGER DANSKE.

The Danish peasantry of the present day relate many wonderful things of an ancient hero whom
they name Holger Danske, i.e. Danish Holger, and to whom they ascribe wonderful strength and
dimensions.

Holger Danske came one time to a town named Bagsvoer, in the isle of Zealand, where, being
in want of a new suit of clothes, he sent for twelve tailors to make them. He was so tall that
they were obliged to set ladders to his back and shoulders to take his measure. They measured
and measured away, but unluckily a man, who was on the top of one of the ladders, happened,
as he was cutting a mark in the measure, to give Holger's ear a clip with the scissors. Holger,
forgetting what was going on, thinking that he was being bitten by a flea, put up his hand
and crushed the unlucky tailor to death between his fingers.

It is also said that a witch one time gave him a pair of spectacles which would enable him
to see through the ground. He lay down at a place not far from Copenhagen to make a trial of
their powers, and as he put his face close to the ground, he left in it the mark of his spectacles,
which mark is to be seen at this very day, and the size of it proves what a goodly pair they
must have been.

Tradition does not say at what time it was that this mighty hero honoured the isles of the
Baltic with his actual presence, but, in return, it informs us that Holger, like so many other
heroes of renown, "is not dead, but sleepeth." The clang of arms, we are told, was frequently
heard under the castle of Cronberg, but in all Denmark no one could be found hardy enough to
penetrate the subterranean recesses and ascertain the cause. At length a slave, who had been
condemned to death, was offered his life and a pardon if he would go down, proceed through
the subterranean passage as far as it went, and bring an account of what he should meet there.
He accordingly descended, and went along till he came to a great iron door, which opened of
itself the instant he knocked at it, and he beheld before him a deep vault. From the roof in
the centre hung a lamp whose flame was nearly extinct, and beneath was a huge great stone table,
around which sat steel-clad warriors, bowed down over it, each with his head on his crossed
arms. He who was seated at the head of the board then raised himself up. This was Holger Danske.
When he had lifted his head up from off his arms, the stone table split throughout, for his
beard was grown into it.

"Give me thy hand," said he to the intruder.

The slave feared to trust his hand in the grasp of the ancient warrior, and he reached him
the end of an iron bar which he had brought with him. Holger squeezed it so hard, that the
mark of his hand remained in it. He let it go at last, saying--

"Well! I am glad to find there are still men in Denmark."

TALES FROM THE PROSE EDDA

THE GODS AND THE WOLF.

Among the Æsir, or gods, is reckoned one named Loki or Loptur. By many he is called the reviler
of the gods, the author of all fraud and mischief, and the shame of gods and men alike. He
is the son of the giant Farbauti, his mother being Laufey or Nal, and his brothers Byleist
and Helblindi. He is of a goodly appearance and elegant form, but his mood is changeable, and
he is inclined to all wickedness. In cunning and perfidy he excels every one, and many a time
has he placed the gods in great danger, and often has he saved them again by his cunning. He
has a wife named Siguna, and their son is called Nari.

Loki had three children by Angurbodi, a giantess of Jotunheim (the giants' home). The first
of these was Fenris, the wolf; the second was Jörmungand, the Midgard serpent; and the third
was Hela, death. Very soon did the gods become aware of this evil progeny which was being reared
in Jotunheim, and by divination they discovered that they must receive great injury from them.
That they had such a mother spoke bad for them, but their coming of such a sire was a still
worse presage. All-father therefore despatched certain of the gods to bring the children to
him, and when they were brought before him he cast the serpent down into the ocean which surrounds
the world. There the monster waxed so large that he wound himself round the whole globe, and
that with such ease that he can with his mouth lay hold of his tail. Hela All-father cast into
Niflheim, where she rules over nine worlds. Into these she distributes all those who are sent
to her,--that is to say, all who die through sickness or old age. She has there an abode with
very thick walls, and fenced with strong gates. Her hall is Elvidnir; her table is Hunger;
her knife, Starvation; her man-servant, Delay; her maid-servant, Sloth; her threshold, Precipice;
her bed, Care; and her curtains, Anguish of Soul. The one half of her body is livid, the other
half is flesh-colour. She has a terrible look, so that she can be easily known.

As to the wolf, Fenris, the gods let him grow up among themselves, Tyr being the only one of
them who dare give him his food. These they presented to the wolf, and desired him to put them
on to show his strength by endeavouring to break them. The wolf saw that it would not be difficult
for him to burst them, so he let the gods put the fetters on him, then violently stretching
himself he broke the fetters asunder, and set himself free.

Having seen this, the gods went to work, and prepared a second set of fetters, called Dromi,
half as strong again as the former, and these they persuaded the wolf to put on, assuring him
that if he broke them he would then furnish them with an undeniable proof of his power. The
wolf saw well enough that it would not be easy to break this set, but he considered that he
had himself increased in strength since he broke the others, and he knew that without running
some risk he could never become celebrated. He therefore allowed the gods to place the fetters
on him. Then Fenris shook himself, stretched his limbs, rolled on the ground, and at length
burst the fetters, which he made fly in all directions. Thus did he free himself the second
time from his chains, and from this has arisen the saying, "To get free from Loeding, or to
burst from Dromi," meaning to perform something by strong exertion.

The gods now despaired of ever being able to secure the wolf with any chain of their own making.
All-father, however, sent Skirnir, the messenger of the god Frey, into the country of the Black
Elves, to the dwarfs, to ask them to make a chain to bind Fenris with. This chain was composed
of six things--the noise made by the fall of a cat's foot, the hair of a woman's beard, the
roots of stones, the nerves of bears, the breath of fish, and the spittle of birds.

The fetters were as smooth and as soft as silk, and yet, as you will presently see, of great
strength. The gods were very thankful for them when they were brought to them, and returned
many thanks to him who brought them. Then they took the wolf with them on to the island Lyngvi,
which is in the lake Amsvartnir, and there they showed him the chain, desiring him to try his
strength in breaking it. At the same time they told him that it was a good deal stronger than
it looked. They took it in their own hands and pulled at it, attempting in vain to break it,
and then they said to Fenris--

"No one else but you, Fenris, can break it."

"I don't see," replied the wolf, "that I shall gain any glory by breaking such a slight string,
but if any artifice has been employed in the making of it, you may be sure, though it looks
so fragile, it shall never touch foot of mine."

The gods told him he would easily break so slight a bandage, since he had already broken asunder
shackles of iron of the most solid make.

"But," said they, "if you should not be able to break the chain, you are too feeble to cause
us any anxiety, and we shall not hesitate to loose you again."

"I very much fear," replied the wolf, "that if you once tie me up so fast that I cannot release
myself, you will be in no haste to unloose me. I am, therefore, unwilling to have this cord
wound around me; but to show you I am no coward, I will agree to it, but one of you must put
his hand in my mouth, as a pledge that you intend me no deceit."

The gods looked on one another wistfully, for they found themselves in an embarrassing position.

Then Tyr stepped forward and bravely put his right hand in the monster's mouth. The gods then
tied up the wolf, who forcibly stretched himself, as he had formerly done, and exerted all
his powers to disengage himself; but the more efforts he made the tighter he drew the chain
about him, and then all the gods, except Tyr, who lost his hand, burst out into laughter at
the sight. Seeing that he was so fast tied that he would never be able to get loose again,
they took one end of the chain, which was called Gelgja, and having drilled a hole for it,
drew it through the middle of a large broad rock, which they sank very deep in the earth. Afterwards,
to make all still more secure, they tied the end of the chain, which came through the rock
to a great stone called Keviti, which they sank still deeper. The wolf used his utmost power
to free himself, and, opening his mouth, tried to bite them. When the gods saw that they took
a sword and thrust it into his mouth, so that it entered his under jaw right up to the hilt,
and the point reached his palate. He howled in the most terrible manner, and since then the
foam has poured from his mouth in such abundance that it forms the river called Von. So the
wolf must remain until Ragnarök.

Such a wicked race has Loki begot. The gods would not put the wolf to death because they respected
the sanctity of the place, which forbade blood being shed there.

THE STRANGE BUILDER.

Once upon a time, when the gods were building their abodes, a certain builder came and offered
to erect them, in the space of three half-years, a city so well fortified that they should
be quite safe in it from the incursions of the forest-giants and the giants of the mountains,
even although these foes should have already penetrated within the enclosure Midgard. He asked,
however, for his reward, the goddess Freyja, together with the sun and moon. The gods thought
over the matter a long while, and at length agreed to his terms, on the understanding that
he would finish the whole work himself without any one's assistance, and that all was to be
finished within the space of one single winter. If anything remained to be done when the first
day of summer came, the builder was to entirely forfeit the reward agreed on. When the builder
was told this he asked that he might be allowed the use of his horse, Svadilfari, and to this
the gods, by the advice of Loki, agreed.

On the first day of winter the builder set to work, and during the night he caused his horse
to draw stones for the building. The gods beheld with astonishment the extraordinary size of
these, and marked with wonder that the horse did much more work than his master. The contract
between them and the giant had, however, been confirmed with many oaths and in the presence
of many witnesses, for without such a precaution a giant would not have trusted himself among
the gods, especially at a time when Thor was returning from an expedition he had made into
the east against the giants.

The winter was far advanced, and towards its end the city had been built so strongly and so
lofty as to be almost secure. The time was nearly expired, only three days remaining, and nothing
was wanted to complete the work save the gates, which were not yet put up. The gods then began
to deliberate, and to ask one another who it was that had advised that Freyja should be given
to one who dwelt in Jotunheim, and that they should plunge the heavens in darkness by allowing
one to carry away with him the sun and moon. They all agreed that only Loki could have given
such bad counsel, and that it would be only just to either make him contrive some way or other
to prevent the builder accomplishing his work and having a right to claim his reward, or to
put him to death. They at once laid hands on Loki, who, in his fright, promised upon oath to
do what they desired, let it cost him what it might.

That very night, while the builder was employing his horse to convey stones, a mare suddenly
ran out of a neighbouring forest and commenced to neigh. The horse broke loose and ran after
the mare into the forest, and the builder ran after his horse.

Between one thing and another the whole night was lost, so that when day broke the work was
not completed.

The builder, recognising that he could by no means finish his task, took again his giant form;
and the gods, seeing that it was a mountain-giant with whom they had to deal, feeling that
their oath did not bind them, called on Thor. He at once ran to them, and paid the builder
his fee with a blow of his hammer which shattered his skull to pieces and threw him down headlong
into Niflhel.

The horse Sleipner comes of the horse Svadilfari, and it excels all others possessed by gods
or men.

THOR'S JOURNEY TO THE LAND OF GIANTS.

One day the god Thor set out with Loki in his chariot drawn by two he-goats. Night coming on
they were obliged to put up at a peasant's cottage, when Thor slew his goats, and having skinned
them, had them put into the pot. When this had been done he sat down to supper and invited
the peasant and his children to take part in the feast. The peasant had a son named Thjalfi,
and a daughter, Röska. Thor told them to throw the bones into the goatskins, which were spread
out near the hearth, but young Thjalfi, in order to get at the marrow, broke one of the shank
bones with his knife. Having passed the night in this place, Thor rose early in the morning,
and having dressed himself, held up his hammer, Mjolnir, and thus consecrating the goatskins;
he had no sooner done it than the two goats took again their usual form, only one of them was
now lame in one of its hind-legs. When Thor saw this he at once knew that the peasant or one
of his family had handled the bones of the goat too roughly, for one was broken. They were
terribly afraid when Thor knit his brows, rolled his eyes, seized his hammer, and grasped it
with such force that the very joints of his fingers were white again. The peasant, trembling,
and fearful that he would be struck down by the looks of the god, begged with his family for
pardon, offering whatever they possessed to repair the damage they might have done. Thor allowed
them to appease him, and contented himself with taking with him Thjalfi and Röska, who became
his servants, and have since followed him.

Leaving his goats at that place, Thor set out to the east, to the country of the giants. At
length they came to the shore of a wide and deep sea which Thor, with Loki, Thjalfi, and Röska
passed over. Then they came to a strange country, and entered an immense forest in which they
journeyed all day. Thjalfi was unexcelled by any man as a runner, and he carried Thor's bag,
but in the forest they could find nothing eatable to put in it. As night came on they searched
on all sides for a place where they might sleep, and at last they came to what appeared to
be a large hall, the gate of which was so large that it took up the whole of one side of the
building. Here they lay down to sleep, but about the middle of the night they were alarmed
by what seemed to be an earthquake which shook the whole of the building. Thor, rising, called
his companions to seek with him some safer place. Leaving the apartment they were in, they
found on their right hand an adjoining chamber into which they entered, but while the others,
trembling with fear, crept to the farthest corner of their retreat, Thor, armed with his mace,
remained at the entrance ready to defend himself, happen what might. Throughout the night they
heard a terrible groaning, and when the morning came, Thor, going out, observed a man of enormous
size, lying near, asleep and snoring heavily. Then Thor knew that this was the noise he had
heard during the night. He immediately girded on his belt of prowess which had the virtue of
increasing his strength. The giant awoke and stood up, and it is said that for once Thor was
too frightened to use his hammer, and he therefore contented himself with inquiring the giant's
name.

"My name," replied the giant, "is Skrymir. As for you it is not necessary I should ask your
name. You are the god Thor. Tell me, what have you done with my glove?"

Then Skrymir stretched out his hand and took it up, and Thor saw that what he and his companions
had taken for a hall in which they had passed the night, was the giant's glove, the chamber
into which they had retreated being only the thumb.

