THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. X, NO. 276.] SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bristol Cathedral.

                  There is given
  Unto the things of earth, which Time hath bent,
  A spirit's feelings, and where he hath leant
  His hand, but broke his scythe, there is a power
  And magic in the ruin'd battlement
  For which the palace of the present hour
  Must yield its pomp, and wait till ages are its dower.

BYRON.

The cathedral of Bristol is one of the most interesting relics of monastic splendour which
have been spared from the wrecks of desolation and decay. It is dedicated to the holy and undivided
Trinity, and is the remains of an abbey or monastery of great magnificence, which was dedicated
to St. Augustine. The erection of this monastery was begun in 1140, and was finished and dedicated
in 1148, according to the inscription on the tomb of the founder, Robert Fitzharding, the first
lord of Berkeley, who, together with others of that illustrious family, are enshrined within
these walls. It was also denominated the monastery of the black regular canons of the order
of Saint Victor, who are mentioned by Leland as the black canons of St. Augustine within the
city walls. By some historians, Fitzharding is represented as an opulent citizen of Bristol;
but generally as a younger son or grandson of the king of Denmark, and as the youthful companion
of Henry II., who, betaking himself from the sunshine of royal friendship, became a canon of
the monastery he himself had founded. In this congenial solitude he died in 1170, aged 75.
Such is the outline of the foundation of this structure, and it is one of the most attractive
episodes of the early history of England; for the circumstance of a noble exchanging the gilded
finery of a court, and the gay companionship of his prince, for the gloomy cloisters of an
abbey, and the ascetic duties of monastic life, bespeaks a degree of resolution and self-control
which was more probably the result of sincere conviction than of momentary caprice.

The present cathedral is represented to have been merely the church of the monastery, which
was entirely rebuilt in the commencement of the fourteenth century. The style of architecture
in the different parts of this cathedral is accurately discriminated in the following account
from the pen of Bishop Littleton, F.S.A.:--"The lower parts of the chapter house walls," says
he, "together with the door-way and columns at the entrance of the chapter-house, may be pronounced
to be of the age of Stephen, or rather prior to his reign, being fine Saxon architecture. The
inside walls of the chapter-house have round ornamental arches intersecting each other. The
cathedral appears to be of the same style of building throughout, and in no part older than
Edward the First's time, though some writers suppose the present fabric was begun in king Stephen's
time; but not a single arch, pillar, or window agrees with the mode which prevailed at that
time. The great gateway leading into the College Green is round-arched, with mouldings richly
ornamented in the Saxon taste." From this account it appears probable that the chapter-house
and gateway are all the present remains of the ancient monastery. The mutilations which the
cathedral of Bristol has undergone, are not entirely to be referred to the era of the dissolution
of the monasteries, since this structure suffered very considerably during the period of the
civil wars. The ruthless soldiers discovered their barbarism by violating the sacred tombs
of the dead, and by offering every indignity which they supposed would be considered a profanation
of the places which the piety of their ancestors consecrated to religion. At such instances
of the violence of civil factions, the sensitive mind shudders with disgust.

The cathedral of Bristol is rich in monumental tributes to departed worth. Among them is an
elegant monument, by Bacon, to Mrs. Elizabeth Draper, the Eliza of Sterne; and the classical
tomb of the Hendersons. Here, too, rests Lady Hesketh, the friend of Cowper; Powell, of Covent
Garden Theatre; besides branches of the Berkeley family, and various abbots.

The bishopric of Bristol is the least wealthy ecclesiastical promotion which confers the dignity
of a mitre. Its revenue is generally stated to amount to no more than five or six hundred pounds
per annum. In the list of bishops are Fletcher, father of the celebrated dramatist, the colleague
of Beaumont; he attended Mary Queen of Scots on the Scaffold; Lake, one of the seven bishops
committed to the Tower in the time of James I.; Trelawney, a familiar name in the events of
1688; Butler, who materially improved the episcopal palace of Bristol; Conybeare and Newton,
names well known in literary history; with the erudite Warburton, whose name occurs in the
list of deans of Bristol.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEBTOR AND CREDITOR.[1]

  The time is out of joint.--Hamlet.

  SIR M. HALE.

"The greatest of all distinctions in civil life," says Steele, "is that of debtor and creditor;"
although no kind of slavery is so easily endured, as that of being in debt. Luxury and expensive
habits, which are commonly thought to enlarge our liberty by increasing our enjoyments, are
thus the means of its infringement; whilst, in nine cases out of ten, the lessons taught by
this rigid experience lead to the bending and breaking of our spirits, and the unfitting of
us for the rational pleasures of life. All ranks of mankind seem to fall into this fatal error,
from the voluptuous Cleopatra to the needy philosopher, who doles out a mealsworth of morality
for his fellow-creatures, and who would fain live according to his own precepts, had he not
exhausted his means in the acquisition of his experience.

