No. Of these tragic Brontës the most tragic, the most pitiful, the most mercilessly abused
by destiny, was Anne. An interminable, monstrous exile is the impression we get of Anne's life
in the years of her girlhood. There is no actual record of them. Nobody kept Anne's letters.
We never hear her sad voice raised in self-pity or revolt. It is doubtful if she ever raised
it. She waited in silence and resignation, and then told her own story in Agnes Grey. But her
figure remains dim in her own story and in the classic "Lives". We only know that she was the
youngest, and that, unlike her sisters, she was pretty. She had thick brown curling hair, and
violet-blue eyes, and delicate dark eyebrows, and a skin rose and white for her sisters' sallow,
that must have given some ominous hint of fever. This delicate thing was broken on the wheel
of life. They say of Anne perpetually that she was "gentle". In Charlotte's sketch of her she
holds her pretty head high, her eyes gaze straight forward, and you wonder whether, before
the breaking point, she was always as gentle as they say. But you never see her in any moment
of revolt. Her simple poems, at their bitterest, express no more than a frail agony, an innocent
dismay. That little raising of the head in conscious rectitude is all that breaks the long
plaint of Agnes Grey.

There is no piety in that plaint. It is purely pagan; the cry of youth cheated of its desire.
Life brought her no good gifts beyond the slender ineffectual beauty that left her undesired.
Her tremulous, expectant womanhood was cheated. She never saw so much as the flying veil of
joy, or even of such pale, uninspired happiness as she dreamed in Agnes Grey. She was cheated
of her innocent dream.

And by an awful irony her religion failed her. She knew its bitterness, its terrors, its exactions.
She never knew its ecstasies, its flaming mysteries, nor, even at her very last, its consolations.
Her tender conscience drew an unspeakable torment from the spectacle of her brother's degradation.

For it was on Anne, who had no genius to sustain her, that poor Branwell, with the burden of
his destiny, weighed most hard. It was Anne at Thorp Green who had the first terrible misgivings,
the intolerable premonitions.

That wretched story is always cropping up again. The lady whom Mrs. Gaskell, with a murderous
selection of adjectives, called "that mature and wicked woman", has been cleared as far as
evidence and common sense could clear her. But the slander is perpetually revived. It has always
proved too much for the Brontë biographers. Madame Duclaux published it again twenty years
after, in spite of the evidence and in spite of Mrs. Gaskell's retractation. You would have
thought that Branwell might have been allowed to rest in the grave he dug for himself so well.
But no, they will not let him rest. Branwell drank, and he ate opium; and, as if drink and
opium and erotic madness were not enough, they must credit him with an open breach of the seventh
commandment as well. M. Dimnet, the most able of recent critics of the Brontës, thinks and
maintains against all evidence that there was more in it than Branwell's madness. He will not
give up the sordid tragedy à trois. He thinks he knows what Anne thought of Branwell's behaviour,
and what awful secret she was hinting at, and what she told her sisters when she came back
to Haworth. He argues that Anne Brontë saw and heard things, and that her testimony is not
to be set aside.

What did Anne Brontë see and hear? She saw her brother consumed by an illegitimate passion;
a passion utterly hopeless, given the nature of the lady. The lady had been kind to Anne, to
Branwell she had been angelically kind. Anne saw that his behaviour was an atrocious return
for her kindness. Further than that the lady hardly counted in Anne's vision. Her interest
was centred on her brother. She saw him taking first to drink and then to opium. She saw that
he was going mad, and he did go mad. One of the most familiar symptoms of morphia mania is
a tendency to erotic hallucinations of the precise kind that Branwell suffered from. Anne was
unable to distinguish between such a hallucination and depravity. But there is not a shadow
of evidence that she thought what M. Dimnet thinks, or that if she had thought it she made
Charlotte and Emily think it too. Branwell's state was quite enough in itself to break their
hearts. His letters to Leyland, to John Brown, the sexton, to Francis Grundy, record with frightful
vividness every phase of his obsession.

It is inconceivable that such letters should have been kept, still more inconceivable that
they should have been published. It is inconceivable that Mrs. Gaskell should have dragged
the pitiful and shameful figure into the light. Nobody can save poor Branwell now from the
dreadful immortality thrust on him by his enemies and friends with equal zeal. All that is
left to us is a merciful understanding of his case. Branwell's case, once for all, was purely
pathological. There was nothing great about him, not even his passion for Mrs. Robinson. Properly
speaking, it was not a passion at all, it was a disease. Branwell was a degenerate, as incapable
of passion as he was of poetry. His sisters, Anne and Charlotte, talked with an amazing innocence
about Branwell's vices. Simple and beautiful souls, they never for a moment suspected that
his worst vice was sentimentalism. In the beginning, before it wrecked him, nobody enjoyed
his own emotions more than Branwell. At his worst he wallowed voluptuously in the torments
of frustration. At the end, what with drink and what with opium, he was undoubtedly insane.
His letters are priceless pathological documents. They reveal all the workings of his peculiar
mania. He thinks everybody is plotting to keep him from Mrs. Robinson. Faced at every turn
with the evidence of this lady's complete indifference, he gives it all a lunatic twist to
prove the contrary. He takes the strangest people into his confidence, John Brown, the sexton,
and the Robinsons' coachman. Queer flames of lucidity dart here and there through this madness:
"The probability of her becoming free to give me herself and estate ever rose to drive away
the prospect of her decline under her present grief." "I had reason to hope that ere very long
I should be the husband of a lady whom I loved best in the world, and with whom, in more than
competence, I might live at leisure to try to make myself a name in the world of posterity,
without being pestered by the small but countless botherments, which, like mosquitoes, sting
us in the world of work-day toil. That hope and herself are gone--she to wither into patiently
pining decline--it to make room for drudgery." It is all sordid as well as terrible. We have
no right to know these things. Mrs. Oliphant is almost justified in her protest against Charlotte
as the first to betray her brother.

But did Charlotte betray Branwell? Not in her letters. She never imagined--how could she?--that
those letters would be published. Not in her novels. Her novels give no portrait of Branwell
and no hint that could be easily understood. It is in her prefaces to her sisters' novels that
he appears, darkly. Charlotte, outraged by the infamous article in the Quarterly, was determined
that what had been said of her should never be said of Anne and Emily. She felt that their
works offered irresistible provocation to the scandalous reviewer. She thought it necessary
to explain how they came by their knowledge of evil.

This vindication of her sisters is certainly an indictment of her brother to anybody who knew
enough to read between the lines. Charlotte may have innocently supposed that nobody knew or
ever would know enough. Unfortunately, Mrs. Gaskell knew; and when it came to vindicating Charlotte,
she considered herself justified in exposing Charlotte's brother because Charlotte herself
had shown her the way.

But Charlotte might have spared her pains. Branwell does not account for Heathcliff any more
than he accounts for Rochester. He does not even account for Huntingdon in poor Anne's novel.
He accounts only for himself. He is important chiefly in relation to the youngest of the Brontës.
Oddly enough, this boy, who was once thought greater than his sister Emily, was curiously akin
to the weak and ineffectual Anne. He shows the weird flickering of the flame that pulsed so
feebly and intermittently in her. He had Anne's unhappy way with destiny, her knack of missing
things. She had a touch of his morbidity. He was given to silences which in anybody but Anne
would have been called morose. It was her fate to be associated with him in the hour and in
the scene of his disgrace. And he was offered up unwittingly by Charlotte as a sacrifice to
Anne's virtue.

       *       *       *       *       *

Like Branwell, Anne had no genius. She shows for ever gentle, and, in spite of an unconquerable
courage, conquered. And yet there was more in her than gentleness. There was, in this smallest
and least considerable of the Brontës, an immense, a terrifying audacity. Charlotte was bold,
and Emily was bolder; but this audacity of Anne's was greater than Charlotte's boldness or
than Emily's, because it was willed, it was deliberate, open-eyed; it had none of the superb
unconsciousness of genius. Anne took her courage in both hands when she sat down to write The
Tenant of Wildfell Hall. There are scenes, there are situations, in Anne's amazing novel, which
for sheer audacity stand alone in mid-Victorian literature, and which would hold their own
in the literature of revolt that followed. It cannot be said that these scenes and situations
are tackled with a master-hand. But there is a certain grasp in Anne's treatment, and an astonishing
lucidity. Her knowledge of the seamy side of life was not exhaustive. But her diagnosis of
certain states, her realization of certain motives, suggests Balzac rather than any of the
Brontës. Thackeray, with the fear of Mrs. Grundy before his eyes, would have shrunk from recording
Mrs. Huntingdon's ultimatum to her husband. The slamming of that bedroom door fairly resounds
through the long emptiness of Anne's novel. But that door is the crux of the situation, and
if Anne was not a genius she was too much of an artist to sacrifice her crux.

And not only was Anne revolutionary in her handling of moral situations, she was an insurgent
in religious thought. Not to believe in the dogma of eternal punishment was, in mid-Victorian
times and evangelical circles, to be almost an atheist. When, somewhere in the late 'seventies,
Dean Farrar published his Eternal Hope, that book fell like a bomb into the ranks of the orthodox.
But long before Dean Farrar's book Anne Brontë had thrown her bomb. There are two pages in
The Tenant of Wildfell Hall that anticipate and sum up his now innocent arguments. Anne fairly
let herself go here. And though in her "Word to the Elect" (who "may rejoice to think themselves
secure") she declares that

  None shall sink to everlasting woe
  Who have not well deserved the wrath of Heaven,

she presently relents, and tacks on a poem in a lighter measure, expressing her hope

  That soon the wicked shall at last
    Be fitted for the skies;
  And when their dreadful doom is past
    To light and life arise.

It is said (Charlotte said it) that Anne suffered from religious melancholy of a peculiarly
dark and Calvinistic type. I very much suspect that Anne's melancholy, like Branwell's passion,
was pathological, and that what her soul suffered from was religious doubt. She could not reach
that height where Emily moved serenely; she could not see that

        Vain are the thousand creeds
 That move men's hearts: unutterably vain.

There was a time when her tremulous, clinging faith was broken by contact with Emily's contempt
for creeds. When Anne was at Haworth she and Emily were inseparable. They tramped the moors
together. With their arms round each other's shoulders, they paced up and down the parlour
of the Parsonage. They showed the mysterious attraction and affinity of opposites. Anne must
have been fascinated, and at the same time appalled, by the radiant, revealing, annihilating
sweep of Emily's thought. She was not indifferent to creeds. But you can see her fearful and
reluctant youth yielding at last to Emily's thought, until she caught a glimpse of the "repose"
beyond the clash of "conquered good and conquering ill". You can see how the doctrine of eternal
punishment went by the board; how Anne, who had gone through agonies of orthodox fear on account
of Branwell, must have adjusted things somehow, and arrived at peace. Trust in "the merits
of the Redeemer" is, after all, trust in the Immensity beyond Redeemer and redeemed. Of this
trust she sang in a voice, like her material voice, fragile, but sweet and true. She sang naïvely
of the "Captive Dove" that makes unheard its "joyless moan", of "the heart that Nature formed
to love", pining, "neglected and alone". She sang of the "Narrow Way", "Be it," she sings,
"thy constant aim

  "To labour and to love,
    To pardon and endure,
  To lift thy heart to God above,
    And keep thy conscience pure."

She hears the wind in an alien wood and cries for the Parsonage garden, and for the "barren hills":

  Where scarce the scattered, stunted trees
    Can yield an answering swell,
  But where a wilderness of heath
    Returns the sound as well.

  For yonder garden, fair and wide,
    With groves of evergreen,
  Long winding walks, and borders trim
    And velvet lawns between.

  Restore to me that little spot,
    With grey hills compassed round,
  Where knotted grass neglected lies,
    And weeds usurp the ground.

For she, too, loved the moors; and through her love for them she wrote two perfect lines when
she called on Memory to

  Forever hang thy dreamy spell
  Round mountain star and heather-bell.

The critics, the theorists, the tale-mongers, have left Anne quiet in that grave on the sea-coast,
where she lies apart. Her gentle insignificance served her well.

       *       *       *       *       *

But no woman who ever wrote was more criticized, more spied upon, more lied about, than Charlotte.
It was as if the singular purity and poverty of her legend offered irresistible provocation.
The blank page called for the scribbler. The silence that hung about her was dark with challenge;
it was felt to be ambiguous, enigmatic. Reserve suggests a reservation, something hidden and
kept back from the insatiable public with its "right to know". Mrs. Gaskell with all her indiscretions
had not given it enough. The great classic Life of Charlotte Brontë was, after all, incomplete.
Until something more was known about her, Charlotte herself was incomplete. It was nothing
that Mrs. Gaskell's work was the finest, tenderest portrait of a woman that it was ever given
to a woman to achieve; nothing that she was not only recklessly and superbly loyal to Charlotte,
but that in her very indiscretions she was, as far as Charlotte was concerned, incorruptibly
and profoundly true.

Since Mrs. Gaskell's time, other hands have been at work on Charlotte, improving Mrs. Gaskell's
masterpiece. A hundred little touches have been added to it. First, it was supposed to be too
tragic, too deliberately and impossibly sombre (that sad book of which Charlotte's friend,
Mary Taylor, said that it was "not so gloomy as the truth"). So first came Sir Wemyss Reid,
conscientiously working up the high lights till he got the values all wrong. "If the truth
must be told," he says, "the life of the author of Jane Eyre was by no means so joyless as
the world now believes it to have been." And he sets out to give us the truth. But all that
he does to lighten the gloom is to tell a pleasant story of how "one bright June morning in
1833, a handsome carriage and pair is standing opposite the 'Devonshire Arms' at Bolton Bridge".
In the handsome carriage is a young girl, Ellen Nussey, waiting for Charlotte Brontë and her
brother and sisters to go with her for a picnic to Bolton Abbey.

"Presently," says Sir Wemyss Reid, "on the steep road which stretches across the moors to Keighley,
the sound of wheels is heard, mingled with the merry speech and merrier laughter of fresh young
voices. Shall we go forward unseen," he asks, "and study the approaching travellers whilst
they are still upon the road? Their conveyance is no handsome carriage, but a rickety dog-cart,
unmistakably betraying its neighbourship to the carts and ploughs of some rural farmyard. The
horse, freshly taken from the fields, is driven by a youth who, in spite of his countrified
dress, is no mere bumpkin. His shock of red hair hangs down in somewhat ragged locks behind
his ears, for Branwell Brontë esteems himself a genius and a poet, and, following the fashion
of the times, has that abhorrence of the barber's shears which genius is supposed to affect.
But the lad's face is a handsome and striking one, full of Celtic fire and humour, untouched
by the slightest shade of care, hopeful, promising, even brilliant. How gaily he jokes with
his three sisters; with what inexhaustible volubility he pours out quotations from his favourite
poets, applying them to the lovely scenes around him; and with what a mischievous delight in
his superior nerve and mettle, he attempts the feats of charioteering, which fill the heart
of the youngest of the party with sudden terrors! Beside him, in a dress of marvellous plainness,
and ugliness, stamped with the brand "home-made" in characters which none can mistake, is the
eldest of the sisters. Charlotte is talking too; there are bright smiles upon her face; she
is enjoying everything around her, the splendid morning, the charms of leafy trees and budding
roses, and the ever musical stream; most of all, perhaps, the charm of her brother's society,
and the expectation of that coming meeting with her friends, which is so near at hand. Behind
sits a pretty little girl, with fine complexion and delicate regular features, whom the stranger
would pick out as the beauty of the company, and a tall, rather angular figure, clad in a dress
exactly resembling Charlotte's. Emily Brontë does not talk so much as the rest of the party,
but her wonderful eyes, brilliant and unfathomable as the pool at the foot of a waterfall,
but radiant also with a wealth of tenderness and warmth, show how her soul is expanding under
the influences of the scene; how quick she is to note the least prominent of the beauties around
her, how intense is her enjoyment of the songs of the birds, the brilliancy of the sunshine,
the rich scent of the flower-bespangled hedgerows. If she does not, like Charlotte and Anne,
meet her brother's ceaseless flood of sparkling words with opposing currents of speech, she
utters a strange, deep guttural sound which those who know her best interpret as the language
of a joy too deep for articulate expression. Gaze at them as they pass you in the quiet road,
and acknowledge that, in spite of their rough and even uncouth exteriors, a happier four could
hardly be met with in this favourite haunt of pleasure-seekers during a long summer's day."

And you do gaze at them and are sadder, if anything, than you were before. You see them, if
anything, more poignantly. You see their cheerful biographer doing all he knows, and the light
he shoots across the blackness only makes it blacker.

        Nessun maggior dolore
  Che ricordarsi di tempo felice
  Nella miseria;

and in the end the biographer with all his cheerfulness succumbs to the tradition of misery,
and even adds a dark contribution of his own, the suggestion of an unhappy love-affair of Charlotte's.

After Sir Wemyss Reid came Mr. Francis Grundy with his little pictures, Pictures of the Past,
presenting a dreadfully unattractive Charlotte.

Then came Mr. Leyland, following Mr. Grundy, with his glorification of Branwell and his hint
that Charlotte made it very hard at home for the poor boy. He repeats the story that Branwell
told Mr. George Searle Phillips, how he went to see a dying girl in the village, and sat with
her half an hour, and read a psalm to her and a hymn, and how he felt like praying with her
too, but he was not "good enough", how he came away with a heavy heart and fell into melancholy
musings. "Charlotte observed my depression," Branwell said, "and asked what ailed me. So I
told her. She looked at me with a look which I shall never forget if I live to be a hundred
years old--which I never shall. It was not like her at all. It wounded me as if someone had
struck me a blow in the mouth. It involved ever so many things in it. It ran over me, questioning
and examining, as if I had been a wild beast. It said, 'Did my ears deceive me, or did I hear
aright?' And then came the painful, baffled expression, which was worse than all. It said,
'I wonder if that's true?' But, as she left the room, she seemed to accuse herself of having
wronged me, and smiled kindly upon me, and said, 'She is my little scholar, and I will go and
see her.' I replied not a word. I was too much cut up! When she was gone, I came over here
to the 'Black Bull' and made a note of it...."

You see the implication? It was Charlotte who drove him to the "Black Bull". That was Branwell's
impression of Charlotte. Just the sort of impression that an opium-eater would have of a beloved
sister.

But Branwell's impression was good enough for Madame Duclaux to found her theory on. Her theory
is that Charlotte was inferior to Emily in tenderness. It may well be so, and yet Charlotte
would remain above most women tender, for Emily's wealth would furnish forth a score of sisters.
The simple truth is that Charlotte had nerves, and Branwell was extremely trying. And it is
possible that Emily had less to bear, that in her detachment she was protected more than Charlotte
from Branwell at his worst.

Meanwhile tales were abroad presenting Charlotte in the queerest lights. There is that immortal
story of how Thackeray gave a party for Currer Bell at his house in Young Street, and how Currer
Bell had a headache and lay on a sofa in the back drawing-room, and refused to talk to anybody
but the governess; and how Thackeray at last, very late, with a finger on his lip, stole out
of the house and took refuge in his club. No wonder if this quaint and curious Charlotte survived
in the memory of Thackeray's daughter. But, even apart from the headache, you can see how it
came about, how the sight of the governess evoked Charlotte Brontë's unforgotten agony. She
saw in the amazed and cheerful lady her own sad youth, slighted and oppressed, solitary in
a scene of gaiety--she could not have seen her otherwise--and her warm heart rushed out to
her. She was determined that that governess should have a happy evening if nobody else had.
Her behaviour was odd, if you like, it was even absurd, but it had the sublimity of vicarious
expiation. Has anyone ever considered its significance, the magnitude of her deed? For Charlotte,
to be the guest of honour on that brilliant night, in the house of Thackeray, her divinity,
was to touch the topmost height of fame. And she turned her back on the brilliance and the
fame and the face of her divinity, and offered herself up in flames as a sacrifice for all
the governesses that were and had ever been and would be.

And after the fine stories came the little legends--things about Charlotte when she was a governess
herself at Mrs. Sidgwick's, and the tittle-tattle of the parish. One of the three curates whom
Charlotte made so shockingly immortal avenged himself for his immortality by stating that the
trouble with Charlotte was that she would fight for mastery in the parish. Who can believe
him? If there is one thing that seems more certain than another it is Charlotte's utter indifference
to parochial matters. But Charlotte was just, and she may have objected to the young man's
way with the Dissenters; we know that she did very strongly object to Mr. William Weightman's
way. And that, I imagine, was the trouble between Charlotte and the curates.

As for the Sidgwicks, Charlotte's biographers have been rather hard on them. Mr. Leslie Stephen
calls them "coarse employers". They were certainly not subtle enough to divine the hidden genius
in their sad little governess. It was, I imagine, Charlotte's alien, enigmatic face that provoked
a little Sidgwick to throw a Bible at her. She said Mrs. Sidgwick did not know her, and did
not "intend to know her". She might have added that if she had intended Mrs. Sidgwick could
not possibly have known her. And when the Sidgwicks said (as they did say to their cousin,
Mr. Arthur Christopher Benson) that if Miss Brontë "was invited to walk to church with them,
she thought she was being ordered about like a slave; if she was not invited she imagined she
was being excluded from the family circle", that was simply their robust view of the paralysed
attitude of a shy girl among strangers, in an agony of fear lest she should cut in where she
was not wanted.

And allowances must be made for Mrs. Sidgwick. She was, no doubt, considerably annoyed at finding
that she had engaged a thoroughly incompetent and apparently thoroughly morbid young person
who had offered herself as a nursery-governess and didn't know how to keep order in the nursery.
Naturally there was trouble at Stonegappe. Then one fine day Mrs. Sidgwick discovered that
there was, after all, a use for that incomprehensible and incompetent Miss Brontë. Miss Brontë
had a gift. She could sew. She could sew beautifully. Her stitching, if you would believe it,
was a dream. And Mrs. Sidgwick saw that Miss Brontë's one talent was not lodged in her useless.
So Charlotte sat alone all evening in the schoolroom at Stonegappe, a small figure hidden in
pure white, billowy seas of muslin, and lamented thus: "She cares nothing in the world about
me except to contrive how the greatest possible quantity of labour may be squeezed out of me,
and to that end she overwhelms me with oceans of needlework, yards of cambric to hem, muslin
night-caps to make, and above all things, dolls to dress." And Mrs. Sidgwick complained that
Charlotte did not love the children, and forgot how little she liked it when the children loved
Charlotte, and was unaware, poor lady, that it was recorded of her, and would be recorded to
all time, that she had said, "Love the governess, my dear!" when her little impulsive boy put
his hand in Charlotte's at the dinner-table, and cried "I love 'ou, Miss Brontë." It was the
same little, impulsive boy who threw the Bible at Charlotte, and also threw a stone which hit her.

No wonder that Miss Brontë's one and only "pleasant afternoon" was when Mr. Sidgwick went out
walking in his fields with his children and his Newfoundland dog, and Charlotte (by order)
followed and observed him from behind.

Of course, all these old tales should have gone where Mrs. Sidgwick's old muslin caps went;
but they have not, and so it has got about that Charlotte Brontë was not fond of children.
Even Mr. Swinburne, at the height of his magnificent eulogy, after putting crown upon crown
upon her head, pauses and wonders: had she any love for children? He finds in her "a plentiful
lack of inborn baby-worship"; she is unworthy to compare in this with George Eliot, "the spiritual
mother of Totty, of Eppie, and of Lillo". "The fiery-hearted Vestal of Haworth," he says, "had
no room reserved in the palace of her passionate and high-minded imagination as a nursery for
inmates of such divine and delicious quality." There was little Georgette in Villette, to say
nothing of Polly, and there was Adèle in Jane Eyre. But Mr. Swinburne had forgotten about little
Georgette. Like George Henry Lewes he is "well-nigh moved to think one of the most powerfully
and exquisitely written chapters in Shirley a chapter which could hardly have been written
at all by a woman, or, for that matter, by a man, of however noble and kindly a nature, in
whom the instinct, or nerve, or organ of love for children was even of average natural strength
and sensibility"; so difficult was it for him to believe in "the dread and repulsion felt by
a forsaken wife and tortured mother for the very beauty and dainty sweetness of her only new-born
child, as recalling the cruel, sleek charm of the human tiger that had begotten it". And so
he crowns her with all crowns but that of "love for children". He is still tender to her, seeing
in her that one monstrous lack; he touches it with sorrow and a certain shame.

Mr. Birrell follows him. "Miss Brontë," he says with confidence, "did not care for children.
She had no eye for them. Hence it comes about that her novel-children are not good." He is
moved to playful sarcasm when he tells how in August of eighteen-fifty-three "Miss Brontë suffered
a keen disappointment". She went to Scotland with some friends who took their baby with them.
The parents thought the baby was ill when it wasn't, and insisted on turning back, and Charlotte
had to give up her holiday. "All on account of a baby," says Mr. Birrell, and refers you to
Charlotte's letter on the subject, implying that it was cold-blooded. The biographer can quote
letters for his purpose, and Mr. Birrell omits to tell us that Charlotte wrote "had any evil
consequences followed a prolonged stay, I should never have forgiven myself". You are to imagine
that Charlotte could have forgiven herself perfectly well, for Charlotte "did not care for
children".

Mrs. Oliphant does not echo that cry. She was a woman and knew better.

For I believe that here we touch the very heart of the mystery that was Charlotte Brontë. We
would have no right to touch it, to approach it, were it not that other people have already
violated all that was most sacred and most secret in that mystery, and have given the world
a defaced and disfigured Charlotte Brontë. I believe that this love of children which even
Mr. Swinburne has denied to her, was the key to Charlotte's nature. We are face to face here,
not with a want in her, but with an abyss, depth beyond depth of tenderness and longing and
frustration, of a passion that found no clear voice in her works, because it was one with the
elemental nature in her, undefined, unuttered, unutterable.

She was afraid of children; she was awkward with them; because such passion has shynesses,
distances, and terrors unknown to the average comfortable women who become happy mothers. It
has even its perversions, when love hardly knows itself from hate. Such love demands before
all things possession. It cries out for children of its own flesh and blood. I believe that
there were moments when it was pain for Charlotte to see the children born and possessed by
other women. It must have been agony to have to look after them, especially when the rule was
that they were not to "love the governess".

The proofs of this are slender, but they are sufficient. There is little Georgette, the sick
child that Lucy nurses in the Pensionnat: "Little Georgette still piped her plaintive wail,
appealing to me by her familiar term, 'Minnie, Minnie, me very poorly!' till my heart ached."
... "I affected Georgette; she was a sensitive and loving child; to hold her in my lap, or
carry her in my arms, was to me a treat. To-night she would have me lay my head on the pillow
of her crib; she even put her little arms round my neck. Her clasp and the nestling action
with which she pressed her cheek to mine made me almost cry with a sort of tender pain."

Once during a spring-cleaning at Upperwood House Charlotte was Mrs. White's nursemaid as well
as her governess, and she wrote: "By dint of nursing the fat baby it has got to know me and
be fond of me. I suspect myself of growing rather fond of it." Years later she wrote to Mrs.
Gaskell, after staying with her: "Could you manage to convey a small kiss to that dear but
dangerous little person, Julia? She surreptitiously possessed herself of a minute fraction
of my heart, which has been missing ever since I saw her."

Mrs. Gaskell tells us that there was "a strong mutual attraction" between Julia, her youngest
little girl, and Charlotte Brontë. "The child," she says, "would steal her little hand into
Miss Brontë's scarcely larger one, and each took pleasure in this apparently unobserved caress."
May I suggest that children do not steal their little hands into the hands of people who do
not care for them? Their instinct is infallible.

Charlotte Brontë tried to give an account of her feeling for children; it was something like
the sacred awe of the lover. "Whenever I see Florence and Julia again I shall feel like a fond
but bashful suitor, who views at a distance the fair personage to whom, in his clownish awe,
he dare not risk a near approach. Such is the clearest idea I can give you of my feeling towards
children I like, but to whom I am a stranger--and to what children am I not a stranger?"

Extraordinary that Charlotte's critics have missed the pathos of that cri de coeur. It is so
clearly an echo from the "house of bondage", where Charlotte was made a stranger to the beloved,
where the beloved threw stones and Bibles at her. You really have to allow for the shock of
an experience so blighting. It is all part of the perversity of the fate that dogged her, that
her feeling should have met with that reverse. But it was there, guarded with a certain shy
austerity. She "suspected" herself of getting rather fond of the baby.

She hid her secret even from herself, as women will hide these things. But her dreams betrayed
her after the way of dreams. Charlotte's dream (premonitory, she thought, of trouble) was that
she carried a little crying child, and could not still its cry. "She described herself," Mrs.
Gaskell says, "as having the most painful sense of pity for the little thing, lying inert,
as sick children do, while she walked about in some gloomy place with it, such as the aisle
of Haworth Church." This dream she gives to Jane Eyre, unconscious of its profound significance
and fitness. It is a pity that Mr. Swinburne did not pay attention to Charlotte's dream.

All her life, I think, she suffered because of the perpetual insurgence of this secret, impassioned,
maternal energy. Hence the sting of Lewes's famous criticism, beginning: "The grand function
of woman, it must always be remembered" (as if Charlotte had forgotten it!) "is Maternity";
and, working up from his criticism of that chapter in Shirley to a climax of adjuration: "Currer
Bell, if under your heart had ever stirred a child; if to your bosom a babe had ever been pressed--that
mysterious part of your being, towards which all the rest of it was drawn, in which your whole
soul was transported and absorbed--never could you have imagined such a falsehood as that!"
It was impossible for Charlotte to protest against anything but the abominable bad taste of
Lewes's article, otherwise she might have told him that she probably knew rather more about
those mysteries than he did. It was she who gave us that supreme image of disastrous love.
"I looked at my love; it shivered in my heart like a suffering child in a cold cradle!"

And this woman died before her child was born.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then there is Mrs. Oliphant again. Though she was not one of those who said Charlotte Brontë
was not fond of children, though she would have died rather than have joined Lewes in his unspeakable
cry against her, Mrs. Oliphant made certain statements in no better taste than his. She suggests
that Charlotte, fond or not fond of children, was too fond of matrimonial dreams. Her picture
(the married woman's picture) is of an undesired and undesirable little spinster pining visibly
and shamelessly in a parsonage. She would have us believe that from morning till night, from
night till morning, Charlotte Brontë in the Parsonage thought of nothing but of getting married,
that her dreams pursued, ruthlessly, the casual visitor. The hopelessness of the dream, the
undesirability of Charlotte, is what makes her so irresistible to her sister novelist.

There was "one subject", she says, "which Charlotte Brontë had at her command, having experienced
in her own person, and seen her nearest friends under the experience, of that solitude and
longing of women of which she has made so remarkable an exposition. The long silence of life
without an adventure or a change, the forlorn gaze out of windows which never show anyone coming
who can rouse the slightest interest in the mind, the endless years and days which pass and
pass, carrying away the bloom, extinguishing the lights of youth, bringing a dreary middle
age before which the very soul shrinks, while yet the sufferer feels how strong is the current
of life in her own veins, and how capable she is of all the active duties of existence--this
was the essence and soul of the existence she knew best. Was there no help for it? Must the
women wait and see their lives thrown away, and have no power to save themselves!

"The position," she goes on, "in itself so tragic, is one which can scarcely be expressed without
calling forth inevitable ridicule, a laugh at the best, more often a sneer, at the women whose
desire for a husband is thus betrayed. Shirley and Caroline Helstone both cried out for that
husband with an indignation, a fire and impatience, a sense of wrong and injury, which stopped
the laugh for the moment. It might be ludicrous, but it was horribly genuine and true." (This
is more than can be said of Mrs. Oliphant's view of the adorable Shirley Keeldar who was Emily
Brontë. It is ludicrous enough, and it may be genuine, but it is certainly not true.) But Mrs.
Oliphant is careful not to go too far. "Note," she says, "there was nothing sensual about these
young women. It was life they wanted; they knew nothing of the grosser thoughts which the world
with its jeers attributes to them: of such thoughts they were unconscious in a primitive innocence
which, perhaps, only women understand." Yet she characterizes their "outcry" as "indelicate".
"All very well to talk of women working for their living, finding new channels for themselves,
establishing their independence. How much have we said of all that" (Mrs. Oliphant thinks that
she is rendering Charlotte Brontë's thought), "endeavouring to persuade ourselves! Charlotte
Brontë had the courage of her opinions. It was not education nor a trade that her women wanted.
It was not a living, but their share in life.... Miss Brontë herself said correct things" (observe
that insincerity is insinuated here) "about the protection which a trade is to a woman, keeping
her from a mercenary marriage; but this was not in the least the way of her heroines." (Why,
you naturally wonder, should it have been?) "They wanted to be happy, no doubt, but above all
things they wanted their share in life, to have their position by the side of men, which alone
confers a natural equality, to have their shoulder to the wheel, their hands on the reins of
common life, to build up the world and link the generations each to each." (And very proper
of them, too.) "In her philosophy, marriage was the only state which procured this, and if
she did not recommend a mercenary marriage she was at least very tolerant about its conditions,
insisting less upon love than was to be expected" (!) "and with a covert conviction in her
mind, that if not one man, then another was better than any complete abandonment of the larger
path. Lucy Snowe for a long time had her heart very much set on Dr. John and his placid breadth
of Englishism; but when she finally found out that to be impossible her tears were soon dried
by the prospect of Paul Emanuel, so unlike him, coming into his place."

The obvious answer to all this is that Charlotte Brontë was writing in the mid-Victorian age,
about mid-Victorian women, the women whom she saw around her; writing, without any "philosophy"
or "covert conviction", in the days before emancipation, when marriage was the only chance
of independence that a woman had. It would have been marvellous, if she had not had her sister
Emily before her, that in such an age she should have conceived and created Shirley Keeldar.
As for poor little Lucy with her two men, she is not the first heroine who mistook the false
dawn for the true. Besides, Miss Brontë's "philosophy" was exactly the opposite to that attributed
to her, as anybody may see who reads Shirley. In these matters she burned what her age adored,
and adored what it burned, a thorough revolutionary.

But this is not the worst. Mrs. Oliphant professes to feel pity for her victim. "Poor Charlotte
Brontë! She has not been as other women, protected by the grave from all betrayal of the episodes
in her own life." (You would imagine they were awful, the episodes in Charlotte Brontë's life.)
"Everybody has betrayed her, and all she thought about this one, and that, and every name that
was ever associated with hers. There was a Mr. Taylor from London, about whom she wrote with
great freedom to her friend, Miss Nussey, telling how the little man had come, how he had gone
away without any advance in the affairs, how a chill came over her when he appeared and she
found him much less attractive than when at a distance, yet how she liked it as little when
he went away, and was somewhat excited about his first letter, and even went so far as to imagine
with a laugh that there might possibly be a dozen little Joe Taylors before all was over."

This is atrocious. But the malice and bad taste of it are nothing to the gross carelessness
and ignorance it reveals--ignorance of facts and identities and names. Charlotte's suitor was
Mr. James Taylor and not Joe. Joe, the brother of her friend, Mary Taylor, was married already
to a lady called Amelia, and it is of Joe and his Amelia that Charlotte writes. "She must take
heart" (Amelia had been singularly unsuccessful), "there may yet be a round dozen of little
Joe Taylors to look after--run after--to sort and switch and train up in the way they should go."

Of Mr. James Taylor she writes more decorously. Miss Nussey, as usual, had been thinking unwarrantable
things, and had made a most unbecoming joke about Jupiter and Venus, which outraged Charlotte's
"common sense". "The idea of the little man," says Charlotte, "shocks me less. He still sends
his little newspaper; and the other day there came a letter of a bulk, volume, pith, judgment
and knowledge, fit to have been the product of a giant. You may laugh as much and as wickedly
as you please, but the fact is, there is a quiet constancy about this, my diminutive and red-haired
friend, which adds a foot to his stature, turns his sandy locks dark, and altogether dignifies
him a good deal in my estimation." This is all she says by way of appreciation. She says later,
"His manners and his personal appearance scarcely pleased me more than at the first interview....
I feel that in his way he has a regard for me; a regard which I cannot bring myself entirely
to reciprocate in kind, and yet its withdrawal leaves a painful blank." Miss Nussey evidently
insists that Charlotte's feelings are engaged this time, arguing possibly from the "painful
blank"; and Charlotte becomes explicit. She speaks of the disadvantages of the alleged match,
and we gather that Miss Nussey has been urging her to take the little man. "But there is another
thing which forms a barrier more difficult to pass than any of these. Would Mr. Taylor and
I ever suit? Could I ever feel for him enough love to accept him as a husband? Friendship--gratitude--esteem
I have, but each moment he came near me, and that I could see his eyes fastened on me, my veins
ran ice. Now that he is away, I feel far more gently to him; it is only close by that I grow
rigid--stiffening with a strange mixture of apprehension and anger--which nothing softens but
his retreat, and a perfect subduing of his manner." And again, "my conscience, I can truly
say, does not now accuse me of having treated Mr. Taylor with injustice or unkindness ... but
with every disposition and with every wish, with every intention even to look on him in the
most favourable point of view at his last visit, it was impossible to me in my inward heart
to think of him as one that might one day be acceptable as a husband." Could anything be more
explicit? There is a good deal more of it. After one very searching criticism of Mr. Taylor:
"One does not like to say these things, but one had better be honest." And of her honesty Charlotte's
letters on this subject leave no doubt. There is not the smallest ground for supposing that
even for a moment had she thought of Mr. James Taylor as "one that one day might be acceptable",
much less is there for Mr. Clement Shorter's suggestion that if he had come back from Bombay
she would have married him.

But Joe or James, it is all one to Mrs. Oliphant, with her theory of Charlotte Brontë. "For
her and her class, which did not speak of it, everything depended upon whether the women married
or did not marry. Their thoughts were thus artificially fixed to one point in the horizon."
The rest is repetition, ending in the astounding verdict: "The seed she thus sowed has come
to many growths that would have appalled Charlotte Brontë. But while it would be very unjust
to blame her for the vagaries that have followed, and to which nothing could be less desirable
than any building of the house or growth of the race, any responsibility or service, we must
still believe that it was she who drew the curtain first aside and opened the gates to imps
of evil meaning, polluting and profaning the domestic hearth."

That is Mrs. Oliphant on Charlotte Brontë.

And even Mr. Clement Shorter, who has dealt so admirably with outrageous legends, goes half
the way with the detractor. He has a theory that Charlotte Brontë was a woman of morbid mood,
"to whom the problem of sex appealed with all its complications", and that she "dwelt continually
on the problem of the ideal mate".

Now Charlotte may have dreamed of getting married (there have been more criminal dreams); she
may have brooded continually over the problem of the ideal mate, only of all these dreams and
broodings there is not one atom of evidence--not one. Not a hint, not a trace, either in her
character as we know it, or in her very voluminous private correspondence. The facts of her
life disprove it. Her letters to Ellen Nussey (never meant for publication) reveal the workings
of Charlotte's feminine mind when applied to "the sex problem"; a mind singularly wholesome
and impersonal, and singularly detached. Charlotte is full of lights upon this awful subject
of matrimony, which, by the way, had considerably more interest for Miss Nussey than it had
for her. In fact, if it had not been for Miss Nussey it would not have appeared so often as
it did in Charlotte's letters. If you pay attention to the context (a thing that theorists
never do) you see, what is indeed obvious, that a large portion of Charlotte Brontë's time
was taken up in advising and controlling Ellen Nussey, that amiable and impulsive prototype
of Caroline Helstone. She is called upon in all Miss Nussey's hours of crisis, and there seem
to have been a great many of them.

And again, to Miss Nussey, six months later: "Did you not once say to me in all childlike simplicity,
'I thought, Charlotte, no young lady should fall in love till the offer was actually made'?
I forgot what answer I made at the time, but I now reply, after due consideration, Right as
a glove, the maxim is just, and I hope you will always attend to it. I will even extend and
confirm it: no young lady should fall in love till the offer has been made, accepted, the marriage
ceremony performed, and the first half-year of wedded life has passed away. A woman may then
begin to love, but with great precaution, very coolly, very moderately, very rationally. If
she ever loves so much that a harsh word or a cold look cuts her to the heart, she is a fool.
If she ever loves so much that her husband's will is her law, and that she has got into a habit
of watching his looks in order that she may anticipate his wishes, she will soon be a neglected
fool. Did I not tell you of an instance...?"

What could be more lucid, more light-hearted, and more sane? And if Charlotte is suspicious
of the dangers of her own temperament, that only proves her lucidity and sanity the more.

Later, at Brussels, when confronted with "three or four people's" idea that "the future époux
of Miss Brontë is on the Continent", she defends herself against the "silly imputation". "Not
that it is a crime to marry, or a crime to wish to be married; but it is an imbecility, which
I reject with contempt, for women, who have neither fortune nor beauty, to make marriage the
principal object of their wishes and hopes, and the aim of all their actions; not to be able
to convince themselves that they are unattractive, and that they had better be quiet, and think
of other things than wedlock." Can anything be clearer?

So much for herself. But she has to deal with Miss Nussey, in difficulties again, later: "Papa
has two or three times expressed a fear that since Mr. ---- paid you so much attention, he
will, perhaps, have made an impression on your mind which will interfere with your comfort.
I tell him I think not, as I believe you to be mistress of yourself in those matters. Still,
he keeps saying that I am to write to you and dissuade you from thinking of him. I never saw
Papa make himself so uneasy about a thing of the kind before; he is usually very sarcastic
on such subjects.

"Mr. ---- be hanged! I never thought very well of him, and I am much disposed to think very
ill of him at this blessed minute. I have discussed the subject fully, for where is the use
of being mysterious and constrained?--it is not worth while."

And yet again it is Ellen Nussey. "Ten years ago I should have laughed at your account of the
blunder you made in mistaking the bachelor doctor of Bridlington for a married man. I should
have certainly thought you scrupulous over-much, and wondered how you could possibly regret
being civil to a decent individual merely because he happened to be single instead of double.
Now, however, I can perceive that your scruples are founded on common sense. (I regret to say
that Charlotte wrote) "to hook a husband."

Later, she has to advise her friend Mr. Williams as to a career for his daughter Louisa. And
here she is miles ahead of her age, the age that considered marriage the only honourable career
for a woman. "Your daughters--no more than your sons--should be a burden on your hands. Your
daughters--as much as your sons--should aim at making their way honourably through life. Do
you not wish to keep them at home? Whenever I have seen, not merely in humble but in affluent
houses, families of daughters sitting waiting to be married, I have pitied them from my heart.
How should I be with youth past, sisters lost, a resident in a moorland parish where there
is not a single educated family? In that case I should have no world at all. As it is, something
like a hope and a motive sustains me still. I wish all your daughters--I wish every woman in
England, had also a hope and a motive."

Whatever the views of Charlotte Brontë's heroines may or may not have been, these were her
own views--sober, sincere, and utterly dispassionate. Mrs. Oliphant set them aside, either
in criminal carelessness, or with still more criminal deliberation, because they interfered
with her theory. They are certainly not the views of a woman given to day-dreaming and window-gazing.
Lucy Snowe may have had time for window-gazing, but not Charlotte Brontë, what with her writing
and her dusting, sweeping, ironing, bed-making, and taking the eyes out of the potatoes for
poor old Tabby, who was too blind to see them. Window-gazing of all things! Mrs. Oliphant could
not have fixed upon a habit more absurdly at variance with Charlotte's character.

For she was pure, utterly and marvellously pure from sentimentalism, which was (and she knew
it) the worst vice of the Victorian age. Mr. Leslie Stephen said that, "Miss Brontë's sense
of humour was but feeble." It was robust enough when it played with sentimentalists. But as
for love, for passion, she sees it with a tragic lucidity that is almost a premonition. And
her attitude was by no means that of the foredoomed spinster, making necessity her virtue.
There was no necessity. She had at least four suitors (quite a fair allowance for a little
lady in a lonely parish), and she refused them all. Twice in her life, in her tempestuous youth,
and at a crisis of her affairs, she chose "dependence upon coarse employers" before matrimony.
She was shrewd, lucid, fastidious, and saw the men she knew without any glamour. To the cold
but thoroughly presentable Mr. Henry Nussey she replied thus: "It has always been my habit
to study the character of those among whom I chance to be thrown, and I think I know yours
and can imagine what description of woman would suit you for a wife. The character should not
be too marked, ardent and original, her temper should be mild, her piety undoubted, and her
personal attractions sufficient to please your eyes and gratify your just pride. As for me
you do not know me...." She was only three-and-twenty when she wrote that, with the prospect
of Stonegappe before her. For she had not, and could not have for him, "that intense attachment
which would make me willing to die for him; and if ever I marry it must be in that light of
adoration that I will regard my husband". Later, in her worst loneliness she refused that ardent
Mr. Taylor, who courted her by the novel means of newspapers sent with violent and unremitting
regularity through the post. He represented to some degree the larger life of intellectual
interest. But he offended her fastidiousness. She was sorry for the little man with his little
newspaper, and that was all. She refused several times the man she ultimately married. He served
a long apprenticeship to love, and Charlotte yielded to his distress rather than to her own
passion. She describes her engaged state as "very calm, very expectant. What I taste of happiness
is of the soberest order. I trust to love my husband. I am grateful for his tender love for
me.... Providence offers me this destiny. Doubtless then it is the best for me."

These are not the words, nor is this the behaviour of Mrs. Oliphant's Charlotte Brontë, the
forlorn and desperate victim of the obsession of matrimony.

I do not say that Charlotte Brontë had not what is called a "temperament"; her genius would
not have been what it was without it; she herself would have been incomplete; but there never
was a woman of genius who had her temperament in more complete subjection to her character;
and it is her character that you have to reckon with at every turn.

The little legends and the little theories have gone far enough. And had they gone no farther
they would not have mattered much. They would at least have left Charlotte Brontë's genius
to its own mystery.

But her genius was the thing that irritated, the enigmatic, inexplicable thing. Talent in a
woman you can understand, there's a formula for it--tout talent de femme est un bonheur manqué.
So when a woman's talent baffles you, your course is plain, cherchez l'homme. Charlotte's critics
argued that if you could put your finger on the man you would have the key to the mystery.
This, of course, was arguing that her genius was, after all, only a superior kind of talent;
but some of them had already begun to ask themselves, Was it, after all, anything more? So
they began to look for the man. They were certain by this time that there was one.

The search was difficult; for Charlotte had concealed him well. But they found him at last
in M. Constantin Héger, the little Professor of the Pensionnat de Demoiselles in the Rue d'Isabelle.
Sir Wemyss Reid had suggested a love-affair in Brussels to account for Charlotte's depression,
which was unfavourable to his theory of the happy life. Mr. Leyland seized upon the idea, for
it nourished his theory that Branwell was an innocent lamb who had never caused his sisters
a moment's misery. They made misery for themselves out of his harmless peccadilloes. Mr. Angus
Mackay in The Brontës, Fact and Fiction, gives us this fiction for a fact. He is pleased with
what he calls the "pathetic significance" of his "discovery". There was somebody, there had
to be, and it had to be M. Héger, for there wasn't anybody else. Mr. Mackay draws back the
veil with a gesture and reveals--the love-affair. He is very nice about it, just as nice as
ever he can be. "We see her," he says, "sore wounded in her affections, but unconquerable in
her will. The discovery ... does not degrade the noble figure we know so well.... The moral
of her greatest works--that conscience must reign absolute at whatever cost--acquires a greater
force when we realize how she herself came through the furnace of temptation with marks of
torture on her, but with no stain on her soul."

This is all very well, but the question is: Did Charlotte come through a furnace? Did she suffer
from a great and tragic passion? It may have been so. For all we know she may have been in
fifty furnaces; she may have gone from one fit of tragic passion to another. Only (apart from
gossip, and apart from the argument from the novels, which begs the question) we have no evidence
to prove it. What we have points all the other way.

Gossip apart, believers in the tragic passion have nourished their theory chiefly on that celebrated
passage in a letter of Charlotte's to Ellen Nussey: "I returned to Brussels after Aunt's death,
prompted by what then seemed an irresistible impulse. I was punished for my selfish folly by
a withdrawal for more than two years of happiness and peace of mind."

Here we have the great disclosure. By "irresistible impulse" and "selfish folly", Charlotte
could only mean indulgence in an illegitimate passion for M. Héger's society. Peace of mind
bears but one interpretation.

Mr. Clement Shorter, to his infinite credit, will have none of this. He maintains very properly
that the passage should be left to bear the simple construction that Miss Nussey and Mr. Nicholls
put upon it. But I would go farther. I am convinced that not only does that passage bear that
construction, but that it will not bear the weight of any other.

In eighteen-forty-two Charlotte's aunt died, and Charlotte became the head of her father's
household. She left her father's house in a time of trouble, prompted by "an irresistible impulse"
towards what we should now call self-development. Charlotte, more than two years later, in
a moment of retrospective morbidity, called it "selfish folly". In that dark mid-Victorian
age it was sin in any woman to leave her home if her home required her. And with her aunt dead,
and her brother Branwell drowning his grief for his relative in drink, and her father going
blind and beginning in his misery to drink a little too, Charlotte felt that her home did require
her. Equally she felt that either Emily or she had got to turn out and make a living, and since
it couldn't possibly be Emily it must be she. The problem would have been quite simple even
for Charlotte--but she wanted to go. Therefore her tender conscience vacillated. When you remember
that Charlotte Brontë's conscience was, next to her genius, the largest, and at the same time
the most delicate part of her, and that her love for her own people was a sacred passion, her
words are sufficiently charged with meaning. A passion for M. Héger is, psychologically speaking,
superfluous. You can prove anything by detaching words from their context. The letter from
which that passage has been torn is an answer to Ellen Nussey's suggestions of work for Charlotte.
Charlotte says "any project which infers the necessity of my leaving home is impracticable
to me. If I could leave home I should not be at Haworth now. I know life is passing away, and
I am doing nothing, earning nothing--a very bitter knowledge it is at moments--but I see no
way out of the mist"; and so on for another line or two, and then: "These ideas sting me keenly
sometimes; but whenever I consult my conscience it affirms that I am doing right in staying
at home, and bitter are its upbraidings when I yield to an eager desire for release." And then,
the passage quoted ad nauseam, to support the legend of M. Héger.

A "total withdrawal for more than two years of happiness and peace of mind". This letter is
dated October 1846--more than two years since her return from Brussels in January, eighteen-forty-four.
In those two years her father was threatened with total blindness, and her brother Branwell
achieved his destiny. The passage refers unmistakably to events at Haworth. It is further illuminated
by another passage from an earlier letter. Ellen Nussey is going through the same crisis--torn
between duty to herself and duty to her people. She asks Charlotte's advice and Charlotte gives
judgment: "The right path is that which necessitates the greatest sacrifice of self-interest."
The sacrifice, observe, not of happiness, not of passion, but of self-interest, the development
of self. It was self-development, and not passion, not happiness, that she went to Brussels for.

And Charlotte's letters from Brussels--from the scene of passion in the year of crisis, eighteen-forty-three--sufficiently
reveal the nature of the trouble there. Charlotte was alone in the Pensionnat without Emily.
Emily was alone at Haworth. The few friends she had in Brussels left soon after her arrival.
She was alone in Brussels, and her homesickness was terrible. You can trace the malady in all
its stages. In March she writes: "I ought to consider myself well off, and to be thankful for
my good fortune. I hope I am thankful" (clearly she isn't thankful in the least!), "and if
I could always keep up my spirits and never feel lonely or long for companionship or friendship,
or whatever they call it, I should do very well." In the same letter you learn that she is
giving English lessons to M. Héger and his brother-in-law, M. Chapelle. "If you could see and
hear the efforts I make to teach them to pronounce like Englishmen, and their unavailing attempts
to imitate, you would laugh to all eternity." Charlotte is at first amused at the noises made
by M. Héger and his brother-in-law.

In May the noises made by Monsieur fail to amuse. Still, she is "indebted to him for all the
pleasure or amusement" that she had, and in spite of her indebtedness, she records a "total
want of companionship". "I lead an easeful, stagnant, silent life, for which ... I ought to
be very thankful" (but she is not). May I point out that though you may be "silent" in the
first workings of a tragic and illegitimate passion, you are not "stagnant", and certainly
not "easeful".

At the end of May she finds out that Madame Héger does not like her, and Monsieur is "wondrously
influenced" by Madame. Monsieur has in a great measure "withdrawn the light of his countenance",
but Charlotte apparently does not care. In August the vacancies are at hand, and everybody
but Charlotte is going home. She is consequently "in low spirits; earth and heaven are dreary
and empty to me at this moment".... "I can hardly write, I have such a dreary weight at my
heart." But she will see it through. She will stay some months longer "till I have acquired
German". And at the end: "Everybody is abundantly civil, but homesickness comes creeping over
me. I cannot shake it off." That was in September, in M. Héger's absence. Later, she tells
Emily how she went into the cathedral and made "a real confession to see what it was like".
Charlotte's confession has been used to bolster up the theory of the "temptation". Unfortunately
for the theory it happened in September, when M. Héger and temptation were not there. In October
she finds that she no longer trusts Madame Héger. At the same time "solitude oppresses me to
an excess". She gave notice, and M. Héger flew into a passion and commanded her to stay. She
stayed very much against, not her conscience, but her will. In the same letter and the same
connection she says, "I have much to say--many little odd things, queer and puzzling enough--which
I do not like to trust to a letter, but which one day perhaps, or rather one evening--if ever
we should find ourselves by the fireside at Haworth or Brookroyd, with our feet on the fender
curling our hair--I may communicate to you."

Charlotte is now aware of a situation; she is interested in it, intellectually, not emotionally.

In November: "Twinges of homesickness cut me to the heart, now and then." On holidays "the
silence and loneliness of all the house weighs down one's spirits like lead.... Madame Héger,
good and kind as I have described her" (i.e. for all her goodness and kindness), "never comes
near me on these occasions." ... "She is not colder to me than she is to the other teachers,
but they are less dependent on her than I am." But the situation is becoming clearer. Charlotte
is interested. "I fancy I begin to perceive the reason of this mighty distance and reserve;
it sometimes makes me laugh, and at other times nearly cry. When I am sure of it I will tell you."

There can be no doubt that before she left Brussels Charlotte was sure; but there is no record
of her ever having told.

The evidence from the letters is plain enough. But the first thing that the theorist does is
to mutilate letters. He suppresses all those parts of a correspondence which tell against his
theory. When these torn and bleeding passages are restored piously to their contexts they are
destructive to the legend of tragic passion. They show (as Mr. Clement Shorter has pointed
out) that throughout her last year at Brussels Charlotte Brontë saw hardly anything of M. Héger.
They also show that before very long Charlotte had a shrewd suspicion that Madame had arranged
it so, and that it was not so much the absence of Monsieur that disturbed her as the extraordinary
behaviour of Madame. And they show that from first to last she was incurably homesick.

Now if Charlotte had been in any degree, latently, or increasingly, or violently in love with
M. Héger, she would have been as miserable as you like in M. Héger's house, but she would not
have been homesick; she would not, I think, have worried quite so much about Madame's behaviour;
and she would have found the clue to it sooner than she did.

To me it is all so simple and self-evident that, if the story were not revived periodically,
if it had not been raked up again only the other day,[A] there would be no need to dwell upon
anything so pitiful and silly.

[Footnote A: See The Key to the Brontë Works, by J. Malham-Dembleby, 1911.]

It rests first and foremost on gossip, silly, pitiful gossip and conjecture. Gossip in England,
gossip in Brussels, conjecture all round. Above all, it rests on certain feline hints supplied
by Madame Héger and her family. Charlotte's friends were always playfully suspecting her of
love-affairs. They could never put their fingers on the man, and they missed M. Héger. It would
never have occurred to their innocent mid-Victorian minds to suspect Charlotte of an attachment
to a married man. It would not have occurred to Charlotte to suspect herself of it. But Madame
Héger was a Frenchwoman, and she had not a mid-Victorian mind, and she certainly suspected
Charlotte of an attachment, a flagrant attachment, to M. Héger. It is well known that Madame
made statements to that effect, and it is admitted on all hands that Madame had been jealous.
It may fairly be conjectured that it was M. Héger and not Charlotte who gave her cause, slight
enough in all conscience, but sufficient for Madame Héger. She did not understand these Platonic
relations between English teachers and their French professors. She had never desired Platonic
relations with anybody herself, and she saw nothing but annoyance in them for everybody concerned.
Madame's attitude is the clue to the mystery, the clue that Charlotte found. She accused the
dead Charlotte of an absurd and futile passion for her husband; she stated that she had had
to advise the living Charlotte to moderate the ardour of her admiration for the engaging professor;
but the truth, as Charlotte in the end discovered, was that for a certain brief period Madame
was preposterously jealous. M. Héger confessed as much when he asked Charlotte to address her
letters to him at the Athénée Royale instead of the Pensionnat. The correspondence, he said,
was disagreeable to his wife.

Why, in Heaven's name, disagreeable, if Madame Héger suspected Charlotte of an absurd and futile
passion? And why should Madame Héger have been jealous of an absurd and futile woman, a woman
who had seen so little of Madame Héger's husband, and who was then in England? I cannot agree
with Mr. Shorter that M. Héger regarded Charlotte with indifference. He was a Frenchman, and
he had his vanity, and no doubt the frank admiration of his brilliant pupil appealed to it
vividly in moments of conjugal depression. Charlotte herself must have had some attraction
for M. Héger. Madame perceived the appeal and the attraction, and she was jealous; therefore
her interpretation of appearances could not have been so unflattering to Charlotte as she made
out. Madame, in fact, suspected, on her husband's part, the dawning of an attachment. We know
nothing about M. Héger's attachment, and we haven't any earthly right to know; but from all
that is known of M. Héger it is certain that, if it was not entirely intellectual, not entirely
that "affection presque paternelle" that he once professed, it was entirely restrained and
innocent and honourable. It is Madame Héger with her jealousy who has given the poor gentleman
away. Monsieur's state of mind--extremely temporary--probably accounted for "those many odd
little things, queer and puzzling enough", which Charlotte would not trust to a letter; matter
for curl-paper confidences and no more.

Of course there is the argument from the novels, from The Professor, from Jane Eyre, from Villette.
I have not forgotten it. But really it begs the question. It moves in an extremely narrow and
an extremely vicious circle. Jane Eyre was tried in a furnace of temptation, therefore Charlotte
must have been tried. Lucy Snowe and Frances Henri loved and suffered in Brussels. Therefore
Charlotte must have loved and suffered there. And if Charlotte loved and suffered and was tried
in a furnace of temptation, that would account for Frances and for Lucy and for Jane.

No; the theorists who have insisted on this tragic passion have not reckoned with Charlotte
Brontë's character, and its tremendous power of self-repression. If at Brussels any disastrous
tenderness had raised its head it wouldn't have had a chance to grow an inch. But Charlotte
had large and luminous ideas of friendship. She was pure, utterly pure from all the illusions
and subtleties and corruptions of the sentimentalist, and she could trust herself in friendship.
She brought to it ardours and vehemences that she would never have allowed to love. If she
let herself go in her infrequent intercourse with M. Héger, it was because she was so far from
feeling in herself the possibility of passion. That was why she could say, "I think, however
long I live, I shall not forget what the parting with M. Héger cost me. It grieved me so much
to grieve him who has been so true, kind, and disinterested a friend." That was how she could
bring herself to write thus to Monsieur: "Savez-vous ce que je ferais, Monsieur? J'écrirais
un livre et je le dédierais à mon maître de littérature, au seul maître que j'aie jamais eu--à
vous Monsieur! Je vous ai dit souvent en français combien je vous respecte, combien je suis
redevable à votre bonté à vos conseils. Je voudrais le dire une fois en anglais ... le souvenir
de vos bontés ne s'effacera jamais de ma mémoire, et tant que ce souvenir durera le respect
que vous m'avez inspiré durera aussi." For "je vous respecte" we are not entitled to read "je
vous aime". Charlotte was so made that kindness shown her moved her to tears of gratitude.
When Charlotte said "respect" she meant it. Her feeling for M. Héger was purely what Mr. Matthew
Arnold said religion was, an affair of "morality touched with emotion". All her utterances,
where there is any feeling in them, no matter what, have a poignancy, a vibration which is
Brontësque and nothing more. And this Brontësque quality is what the theorists have (like Madame
Héger, and possibly Monsieur) neither allowed for nor understood.

       *       *       *       *       *

For this "fiery-hearted Vestal", this virgin, sharp-tongued and sharper-eyed, this scorner
of amorous curates, had a genius for friendship. This genius, like her other genius, was narrow
in its range and opportunity, and for that all the more ardent and intense. It fed on what
came to its hand. It could even grow, like her other genius, with astounding vitality out of
strange and hostile soil. She seems to have had many friends, obscure and great; the obscure,
the Dixons, the Wheelrights, the Taylors, the Nusseys, out of all proportion to the great.
But properly speaking she had only two friends, Mary Taylor and Ellen Nussey, the enchanting,
immortal "Nel".

There is something at first sight strange and hostile about Mary Taylor, the energetic, practical,
determined, terribly robust person you see so plainly trying, in the dawn of their acquaintance,
to knock the nonsense out of Charlotte. Mary Taylor had no appreciation of the Brontësque.
When Charlotte told Mary Taylor that at Cowan Bridge she used to stand in the burn on a stone
to watch the water flow by, Mary Taylor told Charlotte that she should have gone fishing. When
Jane Eyre appeared she wrote to Charlotte in a strain that is amusing to posterity. There is
a touch of condescension in her praise. She is evidently surprised at anything so great coming
out of Charlotte. "It seemed to me incredible that you had actually written a book." "You are
very different from me," she says, "in having no doctrine to preach. It is impossible to squeeze
a moral out of your production." She is thinking of his prototype when she criticizes the character
of St. John Rivers. "A missionary either goes into his office for a piece of bread, or he goes
for enthusiasm, and that is both too good and too bad a quality for St. John. It's a bit of
your absurd charity to believe in such a man." As an intellectual woman Mary Taylor realized
Charlotte Brontë's intellect, but it is doubtful if she ever fully realized what, beyond an
intellect, she had got hold of in her friend. She was a woman of larger brain than Ellen Nussey,
she was loyal and warm-hearted to the last degree, but it was not given to her to see in Charlotte
Brontë what Ellen Nussey, little as you would have expected it, had seen. She did not keep
her letters. She burnt them "in a fit of caution", which may have been just as well.

But Mary Taylor is important. She had, among her more tender qualities, an appalling frankness.
It was she who told poor little Charlotte that she was very ugly. Charlotte never forgot it.
You can feel in her letters, in her novels, in her whole nature, the long reverberation of
the shock. She said afterwards: "You did me a great deal of good, Polly," by which she meant
that Polly had done her an infinity of harm.

Her friends all began by trying to do her good. Even Ellen Nussey tried. Charlotte is very
kindly cautioned against being "tempted by the fondness of my sisters to consider myself of
too much importance", and in a parenthesis Ellen Nussey begs her not to be offended. "Oh, Ellen,"
Charlotte writes, "do you think I could be offended by any good advice you may give me?" She
thanks her heartily, and loves her "if possible all the better for it". Ellen Nussey in her
turn asks Charlotte to tell her of her faults and "cease flattering her". Charlotte very sensibly
refuses; and it is not till she has got away from her sisters that her own heart-searchings
begin. They are mainly tiresome, but there is a flash of revelation in her reply to "the note
you sent me with the umbrella". "My darling, if I were like you, I should have to face Zionwards,
though prejudice and error might occasionally fling a mist over the glorious vision before
me, for with all your single-hearted sincerity you have your faults, but I am not like you.
If you knew my thoughts; the dreams that absorb me, and the fiery imagination that at times
eats me up, and makes me feel society, as it is, wretchedly insipid, you would pity me, and
I dare say despise me." Miss Nussey writes again, and Charlotte trembles "all over with excitement"
after reading her note. "I will no longer shrink from your question," she replies. "I do wish
to be better than I am. I pray fervently sometimes to be made so ... this very night I will
pray as you wish me."

But Charlotte is not in the least like Ellen Nussey, and she still refuses to be drawn into
any return of this dangerous play with a friend's conscience and her nerves. "I will not tell
you all I think and feel about you, Ellen. I will preserve unbroken that reserve which alone
enables me to maintain a decent character for judgment; but for that, I should long ago have
been set down by all who knows me as a Frenchified fool. You have been very kind to me of late,
and gentle, and you have spared me those little sallies of ridicule, which, owing to my miserable
and wretched touchiness of character, used formerly to make me wince, as if I had been touched
with hot iron. Things that nobody else cares for enter into my mind and rankle there like venom.
I know these feelings are absurd, and therefore I try to hide them, but they only sting the
deeper for concealment. I'm an idiot!"

Miss Nussey seems to have preserved her calm through all the excitement and to have never turned
a hair. But nothing could have been worse for Charlotte than this sort of thing. It goes on
for years. It began in eighteen-thirty-three, the third year of their friendship, when she
was seventeen. In 'thirty-seven it is at its height. Charlotte writes from Dewsbury Moor: "If
I could always live with you, if your lips and mine could at the same time drink the same draught
at the same pure fountain of mercy, I hope, I trust, I might one day become better, far better
than my evil, wandering thoughts, my corrupt heart, cold to the spirit and warm to the flesh,
will now permit me to be. I often plan the pleasant life we might lead, strengthening each
other in the power of self-denial, that hallowed and glowing devotion which the past Saints
of God often attained to."

Now a curious and interesting thing is revealed by this correspondence. These religious fervours
and depressions come on the moment Charlotte leaves Haworth and disappear as soon as she returns.
All those letters were written from Roe Head or Dewsbury Moor, while the Haworth letters of
the same period are sane and light-hearted. And when she is fairly settled at Haworth, instead
of emulating the Saints of God, she and Miss Nussey are studying human nature and the art of
flirtation as exhibited by curates. Charlotte administers to her friend a formidable amount
of worldly wisdom, thus avenging herself for the dance Miss Nussey led her round the throne
of grace.

For, though that morbid excitement and introspection belonged solely to Charlotte's days of
exile, Miss Nussey was at the bottom of it. Mary Taylor would have been a far robuster influence.
But Charlotte's friendship for Mary Taylor, warm as it was, strikes cold beside her passionate
affection for Ellen Nussey. She brought her own fire to that, and her own extraordinary capacity
for pain. Her letters show every phase of this friendship, its birth, its unfolding; and then
the sudden leaping of the flame, its writhing and its torture. She writes with a lover's ardour
and impatience. "Write to me very soon and dispel my uncertainty, or I shall get impatient,
almost irritable." "I read your letter with dismay. Ellen--what shall I do without you? Why
are we to be denied each other's society? It is an inscrutable fatality.... Why are we to be
divided?" (She is at Roe Head, and Roe Head suggests the answer.) "Surely, Ellen, it must be
because we are in danger of loving each other too well--of losing sight of the Creator in idolatry
of the creature." She prays to be resigned, and records "a sweet, placid sensation like those
that I remember used to visit me when I was a little child, and on Sunday evenings in summer
stood by the window reading the life of a certain French nobleman who attained a purer and
higher degree of sanctity than has been known since the days of the Early Martyrs. I thought
of my own Ellen--" "I wish I could see you, my darling; I have lavished the warmest affections
of a very hot tenacious heart upon you; if you grow cold, it is over." She was only twenty-one.

A few more years and the leaping and the writhing and the torture cease, the fire burns to
a steady, inextinguishable glow. There is gaiety in Charlotte's tenderness. She is "infuriated"
on finding a jar in her trunk. "At first I hoped it was empty, but when I found it heavy and
replete, I could have hurled it all the way back to Birstall. However, the inscription A.B.
softened me much. You ought first to be tenderly kissed, and then as tenderly whipped. Emily
is just now sitting on the floor of the bedroom where I am writing, looking at her apples.
She smiled when I gave them and the collar as your presents, with an expression at once well
pleased and slightly surprised."

The religious fervours and the soul-searchings have ceased long ago, so has Miss Nussey's brief
spiritual ascendency. But the friendship and the letters never cease. They go on for twenty
years, through exile and suffering, through bereavement, through fame and through marriage,
uninterrupted and, except for one brief period, unabridged. There is nothing in any biography
to compare with those letters to Ellen Nussey. If Charlotte Brontë had not happened to be a
great genius as well as a great woman, they alone would have furnished forth her complete biography.
There is no important detail of her mere life that is not given in them. Mrs. Gaskell relied
almost entirely on them, and on information supplied to her by Miss Nussey. And each critic
and biographer who followed her, from Sir Wemyss Reid to Mr. Clement Shorter, drew from the
same source. Miss Nussey was almost the only safe repository of material relating to Charlotte
Brontë. She had possessed hundreds of her letters and, with that amiable weakness which was
the defect of her charming quality, she was unable to withhold any of them from the importunate
researcher. There seems to have been nothing, except one thing, that Charlotte did not talk
about to Miss Nussey when they sat with their feet on the fender and their hair in curl-papers.
That one thing was her writing. It is quite possible that in those curl-paper confidences Miss
Nussey learnt the truth about Charlotte's friend, M. Héger. She never learnt anything about
Charlotte's genius. In everything that concerned her genius Charlotte was silent and secret
with her friend. That was the line, the very sharp and impassable line she drew between her
"dear, dear Ellen", her "dearest Nel", and her sisters, Anne and Emily. The freemasonry of
friendship ended there. You may search in vain through even her later correspondence with Miss
Nussey for any more than perfunctory and extraneous allusions to her works. It was as if they
had never been. Every detail of her daily life is there, the outer and the inner things, the
sewing and ironing and potato-peeling, together with matters of the heart and soul, searchings,
experiences, agonies; the figures of her father, her brother, her sisters, move there, vivid
and alive; and old Tabby and the curates; and the very animals, Keeper and Flossie, and the
little black cat, Tom, that died and made Emily sorry; but of the one thing not a word. The
letters to Ellen Nussey following the publication of Jane Eyre are all full of gossip about
Miss Ringrose and the Robinsons. Presently Ellen hears a rumour of publication. Charlotte repudiates
it and friction follows.

Charlotte writes: "Dear Ellen,--write another letter and explain that note of yours distinctly....
Let me know what you heard, and from whom you heard it. You do wrong to feel pain from any
circumstance, or to suppose yourself slighted...." "Dear Ellen,--All I can say to you about
a certain matter is this: the report ... must have had its origin in some absurd misunderstanding.
I have given no one a right to affirm or hint in the most distant manner that I am publishing
(humbug!). Whoever has said it--if anyone has, which I doubt--is no friend of mine. Though
twenty books were ascribed to me, I should own none. I scout the idea utterly. Whoever, after
I have distinctly rejected the charge, urges it upon me, will do an unkind and ill-bred thing."
If Miss Nussey is asked, she is authorized by Miss Brontë to say, "that she repels and disowns
every accusation of the kind. You may add, if you please, that if anyone has her confidence,
you believe you have, and she has made no drivelling confessions to you on that subject." "Dear
Ellen,--I shall begin by telling you that you have no right to be angry at the length of time
I have suffered to slip by since receiving your last, without answering it; because you have
often kept me waiting much longer, and having made this gracious speech, thereby obviating
reproaches, I will add that I think it a great shame, when you receive a long and thoroughly
interesting letter, full of the sort of details you fully relish, to read the same with selfish
pleasure, and not even have the manners to thank your correspondent, and express how very much
you enjoyed the narrative. I did enjoy the narrative in your last very keenly.... Which of
the Miss Woolers did you see at Mr. Allbutts?"

A beautiful but most unequal friendship. "The sort of details you fully relish--" How that
phrase must have rankled! You can hear the passionate protest: "Those details are not what
I relish in the least. Putting me off with your Woolers and your Allbutts! If only you had
told me about Jane Eyre!" For it turned out that all the time Mary Taylor had been told. The
inference was that Mary Taylor, with her fits of caution, could be trusted.

This silence of Charlotte's must have been most painful and incomprehensible to the poor Ellen
who was Caroline Helstone. She had been the first to divine Charlotte's secret; for she kept
the letters. She must have felt like some tender and worshipping wife to whom all doors in
the house of the beloved are thrown open, except the door of the sanctuary, which is persistently
slammed in her charming face. There must have come to her moments of terrible insight when
she felt the danger and the mystery of the flaming spirit she had tried to hold. But Charlotte's
friend can wear her half-pathetic immortality with grace. She could at least say: "She told
me things she never told anyone else. I have hundreds of her letters. And I had her heart."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing so much as this correspondence reveals the appalling solitude in which the Brontës
lived. Here is their dearest and most intimate friend, and she is one to whom they can never
speak of the thing that interested them most. No doubt "our best plays mean secret plays";
but Charlotte, at any rate, suffered from this secrecy. There was nothing to counteract Miss
Nussey's direful influence on her spiritual youth. "Papa" highly approved of the friendship.
He wished it to continue, and it did; and it was the best that Charlotte had. I know few things
more pathetic than the cry that Charlotte, at twenty-one, sent out of her solitude (with some
verses) to Southey and to Wordsworth. Southey told her that, "Literature cannot be the business
of a woman's life, and it ought not to be. The more she is engaged in her proper duties, the
less leisure will she have for it, even as an accomplishment and a recreation. To those duties
you have not yet been called, and when you are you will be less eager for celebrity." A sound,
respectable, bourgeois opinion so far, but Southey went farther. "Write poetry for its own
sake," he said; and he could hardly have said better. Charlotte treasured the letter, and wrote
on the cover of it, "Southey's advice, to be kept for ever." Wordsworth's advice, I am sorry
to say, provoked her to flippancy.

And that, out of the solitude, was all. Not the ghost, not the shadow of an Influence came
to the three sisters. There never was genius that owed so little to influence as theirs.

I know that in Charlotte's case there is said to have been an Influence. An Influence without
which she would have remained for ever in obscurity, with Villette, with Shirley, with Jane
Eyre, with The Professor, unborn, unconceived.

Need I say that the Influence is--M. Héger?

"The sojourn in Brussels," says Mr. Clement Shorter, "made Miss Brontë an author," and he is
only following Sir Wemyss Reid, who was the first to establish Brussels as the turning-point.
Mr. Shorter does not believe in M. Héger as the inspirer of passion, but he does believe in
him as the inspirer of genius. He thinks it exceedingly probable that had not circumstances
led Charlotte Brontë to spend some time at Brussels not only would "the world never have heard
of her", but it would never have heard of her sisters. He is quite certain about Charlotte
anyhow; she could not have "arrived" had she not met M. Héger. "She went," he says, "to Brussels
full of the crude ambitions, the semi-literary impulses that are so common on the fringe of
the writing world. She left Brussels a woman of genuine cultivation, of educated tastes, armed
with just the equipment that was to enable her to write the books of which two generations
of her countrymen have been justly proud."

This is saying that Charlotte Brontë had no means of expression before she wrote devoirs under
M. Héger. True, her genius did not find itself until after she left Brussels, that is to say,
not until she was nearly thirty. I have not read any of her works as Lord Charles Albert Florian
Wellesley, and I do not imagine they were works of genius. But that only means that Charlotte
Brontë's genius took time. She was one of those novelists who do not write novels before they
are nearly thirty. But she could write. Certain fragments of her very earliest work show that
from the first she had not only the means, but very considerable mastery of expression. What
is more, they reveal in germ the qualities that marked her style in its maturity. Her styles
rather, for she had several. There is her absolutely simple style, in which she is perfect;
her didactic style, her fantastic style, which are mere temporary aberrations; and her inspired
style, in which at her worst she is merely flamboyant and redundant, and at her best no less
than perfect. You will find a faint, embryonic foreshadowing of her perfections in the fragments
given by Mrs. Gaskell. There is THE HISTORY OF THE YEAR 1829, beginning: "Once Papa lent my
sister Maria a book. It was an old geography book; she wrote on its blank leaf, "Papa lent
me this book." This book is a hundred and twenty years old; it is at this moment lying before
me. While I write this I am in the kitchen of the Parsonage, Haworth; Tabby, the servant, is
washing up the breakfast things, and Anne, my youngest sister (Maria was my eldest), is kneeling
on a chair, looking at some cakes, which Tabby has been baking for us." You cannot beat that
for pure simplicity of statement. There is another fragment that might have come straight out
of Jane Eyre. "One night, about the time when the cold sleet and stormy fogs of November are
succeeded by the snowstorms and high piercing night-winds of confirmed winter, we were all
sitting round the warm, blazing kitchen fire, having just concluded a quarrel with Tabby concerning
the propriety of lighting a candle, from which she came off victorious, no candle having been
produced." And there is a dream-story that Mr. Clement Shorter gives. She is in the "Mines
of Cracone", under the floor of the sea. "But in the midst of all this magnificence I felt
an indescribable sense of fear and terror, for the sea raged above us, and by the awful and
tumultuous noises of roaring winds and dashing waves, it seemed as if the storm was violent.
And now the massy pillars groaned beneath the pressure of the ocean, and the glittering arches
seemed about to be overwhelmed. When I heard the rushing waters and saw a mighty flood rolling
towards me I gave a loud shriek of terror." The dream changes: she is in a desert full of barren
rocks and high mountains, where she sees "by the light of his own fiery eyes a royal lion rousing
himself from his kingly slumbers. His terrible eye was fixed upon me, and the desert rang,
and the rocks echoed with the tremendous roar of fierce delight which he uttered as he sprang
towards me." And there is her letter to the editor of one of their Little Magazines: "Sir,--It
is well known that the Genii have declared that unless they perform certain arduous duties
every year, of a mysterious nature, all the worlds in the firmament will be burnt up, and gathered
together in one mighty globe, which will roll in solitary splendour through the vast wilderness
of space, inhabited only by the four high princes of the Genii, till time shall be succeeded
by Eternity; and the impudence of this is only to be paralleled by another of their assertions,
namely, that by their magic might they can reduce the world to a desert, the purest waters
to streams of livid poison, and the clearest lakes to stagnant water, the pestilential vapours
of which shall slay all living creatures, except the bloodthirsty beast of the forest, and
the ravenous bird of the rock. But that in the midst of this desolation the palace of the chief
Genii shall rise sparkling in the wilderness, and the horrible howl of their war-cry shall
spread over the land at morning, at noontide, and at night; but that they shall have their
annual feast over the bones of the dead, and shall yearly rejoice with the joy of victors.
I think, sir, that the horrible wickedness of this needs no remark, and therefore I hasten
to subscribe myself, etc."

Puerile, if you like, and puerile all the stuff that Charlotte Brontë wrote before eighteen-forty-six;
but her style at thirteen, in its very rhythms and cadences, is the unmistakable embryo of
her style at thirty; and M. Héger no more cured her of its faults that he could teach her its
splendours. Something that was not Brussels made Miss Brontë a prodigious author at thirteen.
The mere mass of her Juvenilia testifies to a most ungovernable bent. Read the list of works,
appalling in their length, which this child produced in a period of fifteen months; consider
that she produced nothing but melancholy letters during her "sojourn in Brussels"; and compare
M. Héger's academic precepts with her practice, with the wild sweep and exuberance of her style
when she has shaken him off, and her genius gets possession of her.

I know there is a gulf fixed between Currer Bell and Charles Townsend, who succeeded Lord Charles
Albert Florian Wellesley and the Marquis of Douro, about eighteen-thirty-eight; but it is bridged
by the later Poems which show Charlotte's genius struggling through a wrong medium to the right
goal. She does not know--after the sojourn in Brussels she does not yet know--that her right
medium is prose. She knew no more than she knew in November, eighteen-forty-one, when, on the
eve of her flight from Haworth, she writes: "The plain fact is, I was not, I am not now, certain
of my destiny." It was not until two years after she had returned to Haworth that she received
her certainty. For posterity, overpowered by the labour of the Brontë specialists, it may seem
as if Charlotte Brontë's genius owed everything to her flight from Haworth. In reality her
flight merely coincided with the inevitable shooting of its wings; and the specialists have
mistaken coincidence for destiny.

Heaven only knows what would have happened to her genius if, blind to her destiny, she had
remained in Brussels. For, once there, its wing-feathers left off growing. Its way was blocked
by every conceivable hostile and obstructive thing. Madame Héger was hostile, and Monsieur,
I think, purely obstructive. Emily saw through him, and denounced his method as fatal to all
originality. Charlotte, to be sure, called him "my dear master, the only master that I ever
had", but if that was not her "absurd charity", it was only her Brontësque way. There was no
sense in which he was her master. He taught her French; to the very last the habit of using
"a few French words" was the King Charles's head in her manuscripts; and the French he taught
her did her harm. The restraint he could and would have taught her she never learnt until her
genius had had, in defiance and in spite of him, its full fling.

And what a fling! It is the way of genius to look after itself. In spite of obstacles, Charlotte
Brontë's took hold of every man and woman that crossed and barred its path, and ultimately
it avenged itself on Monsieur and on Madame Héger. Those two were made for peaceful, honourable
conjugal obscurity, but it was their luck to harbour a half-fledged and obstructed genius in
their Pensionnat, a genius thirsting for experience; and somehow, between them, they contrived
to make it suffer. That was their tragedy. Monsieur's case is pitiful; for he was kind and
well-meaning, and he was fond of Charlotte; and yet, because of Charlotte, there is no peace
for him in the place where he has gone. Her genius has done with him, but her ghost, like some
malign and awful destiny, pursues him. No sooner does he sink back quiet in his grave than
somebody unearths him. Why cannot he be allowed to rest, once for all, in his amiable unimportance?
He became, poor man, important only by the use that Charlotte's genius made of him. It seized
him as it would have seized on any other interesting material that came its way. Without him
we might have had another Rochester, and we should not have had any Paul Emanuel, which would
have been a pity; that is all.

There is hardly any hope that Brontë specialists will accept this view. For them the sojourn
in Brussels will still stand as the turning-point in Charlotte Brontë's career. Yet for her,
long afterwards, Brussels must have stood as the danger threatening it. She would have said,
I think, that her sojourn in Haworth was the turning-point. It was destiny that turned Emily
back to Haworth from the destruction that waited for her at Brussels, so that she conceived
and brought forth Wuthering Heights; her own destiny that she secretly foreknew, consoling
and beneficent. And, no doubt, it was destiny of a sort, unforeknown, deceitful, apparently
malignant, that sent Charlotte back again to Brussels after her aunt's death. It wrung from
her her greatest book, Villette. But Haworth, I think, would have wrung from her another and
perhaps a greater.

For the first-fruits of the sojourn in Brussels was neither Villette nor Jane Eyre, but The
Professor. And The Professor has none of the qualities of Jane Eyre or of Villette; it has
none of the qualities of Charlotte's later work at all; above all, none of that master quality
which M. Héger is supposed to have specially evoked. Charlotte, indeed, could not well have
written a book more destructive to the legend of the upheaval, the tragic passion, the furnace
of temptation and the flight. Nothing could be less like a furnace than the atmosphere of The
Professor. From the first page to the last there is not one pulse, not one breath of passion
in it. The bloodless thing comes coldly, slowly tentatively, from the birth. It is almost as
frigid as a devoir written under M. Héger's eye. The theorists, I notice, are careful not to
draw attention to The Professor; and they are wise, for attention drawn to The Professor makes
sad work of their theory.

Remember, on the theory, Charlotte Brontë has received her great awakening, her great enlightenment;
she is primed with passion; the whole wonderful material of Villette is in her hand; she has
before her her unique opportunity. You ought, on the theory, to see her hastening to it, a
passionate woman, pouring out her own one and supreme experience, and, with the brand of Brussels
on her, never afterwards really doing anything else. Whereas the first thing the impassioned
Charlotte does (after a year of uninspired and ineffectual poetizing) is to sit down and write
The Professor; a book, remarkable not by any means for its emotion, but for its cold and dispassionate
observation. Charlotte eliminates herself, and is Crimsworth in order that she may observe
Frances Henri the more dispassionately. She is inspired solely by the analytic spirit, and
either cannot, or will not, let herself go. But she does what she meant to do. She had it in
mind to write, not a great work of imagination, but a grey and sober book, and a grey and sober
book is what she writes. A book concerned only with things and people she has seen and known;
a book, therefore, from which passion and the poetry that passion is must be rigidly excluded,
as belonging to the region of things not, strictly speaking, known. It is as if she had written
The Professor in rivalry with her sister Anne, both of them austerely determined to put aside
all imagination and deal with experience and experience alone. Thus you obtain sincerity, you
obtain truth. And with nothing but experience before her, she writes a book that has no passion
in it, a book almost as bloodless and as gentle as her sister Anne's.

Let us not disparage The Professor. Charlotte herself did not disparage it. In her Preface
she refused to solicit "indulgence for it on the plea of a first attempt. A first attempt,"
she says, "it certainly was not, as the pen which wrote it had been previously worn in a practice
of some years." In that Preface she shows plainly that at the very outset of her career she
had no sterner critic than herself; that she was aware of her sins and her temptations, and
of the dangers that lurked for her in her imaginative style. "In many a crude effort, destroyed
almost as soon as composed, I had got over any such taste as I might have had for ornamented
and decorated composition, and come to prefer what was plain and homely." Observe, it is not
to the lessons of the "master", but to the creation and destruction that went on at Haworth
that she attributes this purgation. She is not aware of the extent to which she can trust her
genius, of what will happen when she has fairly let herself go. She is working on a method
that rules her choice of subject. "I said to myself that my hero should work his way through
life, as I had seen real, living men work theirs--that he should never get a shilling that
he had not earned--that no sudden turns should lift him in a moment to wealth and high station;
that whatever small competency he might gain should be won by the sweat of his brow; that before
he could find so much as an arbour to sit down in, he should master at least half the ascent
of the Hill Difficulty; that he should not marry even a beautiful girl or a lady of rank."

There was no fine madness in that method; but its very soundness and sanity show the admirable
spirit in which Charlotte Brontë approached her art. She was to return to the method of The
Professor again and yet again, when she suspected herself of having given imagination too loose
a rein. The remarkable thing was that she should have begun with it.

And in some respects The Professor is more finished, better constructed than any of her later
books. There is virtue in its extreme sobriety. Nothing could be more delicate and firm than
the drawing of Frances Henri; nothing in its grey style more admirable than the scene where
Crimsworth, having found Frances in the cemetery, takes her to her home in the Rue Notre Dame
aux Neiges.

"Stepping over a little mat of green wool, I found myself in a small room with a painted floor
and a square of green carpet in the middle; the articles of furniture were few, but all bright
and exquisitely clean--order reigned through its narrow limits--such order as it suited my
punctilious soul to behold.... Poor the place might be; poor truly it was, but its neatness
was better than elegance, and had but a bright little fire shone on that clean hearth, I should
have deemed it more attractive than a palace. No fire was there, however, and no fuel laid
ready to light; the lace-mender was unable to allow herself that indulgence.... Frances went
into an inner room to take off her bonnet, and she came out a model of frugal neatness, with
her well-fitting black stuff dress, so accurately defining her elegant bust and taper waist,
with her spotless white collar turned back from a fair and shapely neck, with her plenteous
brown hair arranged in smooth bands on her temples and in a large Grecian plait behind: ornaments
she had none--neither brooch, ring, nor ribbon; she did well enough without them--perfection
of fit, proportion of form, grace of carriage, agreeably supplied their place." Frances lights
a fire, having fetched wood and coal in a basket.

"'It is her whole stock, and she will exhaust it out of hospitality,' thought I.

"'What are you going to do?' I asked: 'not surely to light a fire this hot evening? I shall
be smothered.'

"'Indeed, Monsieur, I feel it very chilly since the rain began; besides, I must boil the water
for my tea, for I take tea on Sundays; you will be obliged to bear the heat.'"

And Frances makes the tea, and sets the table, and brings out her pistolets, and offers them
to Monsieur, and it is all very simple and idyllic. So is the scene where Crimsworth, without
our knowing exactly how he does it, declares himself to Frances. The dialogue is half in French,
and does not lend itself to quotation, but it compares very favourably with the more daring
comedy of courtship in Jane Eyre. Frances is delicious in her very solidity, her absence of
abandonment. She refuses flatly to give up her teaching at Crimsworth's desire, Crimsworth,
who will have six thousand francs a year.

"'How rich you are, Monsieur!' And then she stirred uneasily in my arms. 'Three thousand francs!'
she murmured, 'while I get only twelve hundred!' She went on faster. 'However, it must be so
for the present; and, Monsieur, were you not saying something about my giving up my place?
Oh no! I shall hold it fast'; and her little fingers emphatically tightened on mine.

"'Think of marrying you to be kept by you, Monsieur! I could not do it; and how dull my days
would be! You would be away teaching in close, noisy schoolrooms, from morning till evening,
and I should be lingering at home, unemployed and solitary. I should get depressed and sullen,
and you would soon tire of me.'

"'Frances, you could yet read and study--two things you like so well.'

"'Monsieur, I could not; I like contemplative life, but I like an active better; I must act
in some way, and act with you. I have taken notice, Monsieur, that people who are only in each
other's company for amusement, never really like each other so well, or esteem each other so
highly, as those who work together, and perhaps suffer together!'"

To which Crimsworth replies, "You speak God's truth, and you shall have your own way, for it
is the best way."

There is far more common sense than passion in the solid little Frances and her apathetic lover.
It is Frances Henri's situation, not her character, that recalls so irresistibly Lucy Snowe.
Frances has neither Lucy's temperament, nor Lucy's terrible capacity for suffering. She suffers
through her circumstances, not through her temperament. The motives handled in The Professor
belong to the outer rather than the inner world; the pressure of circumstance, bereavement,
poverty, the influences of alien and unloved surroundings, these are the springs that determine
the drama of Frances and of Crimsworth. Charlotte is displaying a deliberate interest in the
outer world and the material event. She does not yet know that it is in the inner world that
her great conquest and dominion is to be. The people in this first novel are of the same family
as the people in Jane Eyre, in Shirley, in Villette. Crimsworth is almost reproduced in Louis
Moore. Yorke Hunsden is the unmistakable father of Mr. Yorke and Rochester; Frances, a pale
and passionless sister of Jane Eyre, and a first cousin of Lucy. Yet, in spite of these relationships,
The Professor stands alone. In spite of its striking resemblance to Villette there is no real,
no spiritual affinity. And the great gulf remains fixed between The Professor and Jane Eyre.

This difference lies deeper than technique. It is a difference of vision, of sensation. The
strange greyness of The Professor, its stillness, is not due altogether to Charlotte's deliberate
intention. It is the stillness, the greyness of imperfect hearing, of imperfect seeing. I know
it has one fine piece of word-painting, but not one that can stand among Charlotte Brontë's
masterpieces in this kind.

Here it is. "Already the pavement was drying; a balmy and fresh breeze stirred the air, purified
by lightning; I left the west behind me, where spread a sky like opal, azure inmingled with
crimson; the enlarged sun, glorious in Tyrian dyes, dipped his brim already; stepping, as I
was, eastward, I faced a vast bank of clouds, but also I had before me the arch of an even
rainbow; a perfect rainbow--high, wide, vivid. I looked long; my eye drank in the scene, and
I suppose my brain must have absorbed it; for that night, after lying awake in pleasant fever
a long time, watching the silent sheet-lightning, which still played among the retreating clouds,
and flashed silvery over the stars, I at last fell asleep; and then in a dream was reproduced
the setting sun, the bank of clouds, the mighty rainbow. I stood, methought, on a terrace;
I leaned over a parapeted wall; there was space below me, depth I could not fathom, but hearing
an endless splash of waves, I believed it to be the sea; sea spread to the horizon; sea of
changeful green and intense blue; all was soft in the distance; all vapour-veiled. A spark
of gold glistened on the line between water and air, floated up, appeared, enlarged, changed;
the object hung midway between heaven and earth, under the arch of the rainbow; the soft but
dark clouds diffused behind. It hovered as on wings; pearly, fleecy, gleaming air streamed
like raiment round it; light, tinted with carnation, coloured what seemed face and limbs; a
large star shone with still lustre on an angel's forehead--" But the angel ruins it.

And this is all, and it leaves the dreariness more dreary. In The Professor you wander through
a world where there is no sound, no colour, no vibration; a world muffled and veiled in the
stillness and the greyness of the hour before dawn. It is the work of a woman who is not perfectly
alive. So far from having had her great awakening, Charlotte is only half awake. Her intellect
is alert enough and avid, faithful and subservient to the fact. It is her nerves and senses
that are asleep. Her soul is absent from her senses.

       *       *       *       *       *

But in Jane Eyre, she is not only awakened, but awake as she has never been awake before, with
all her virgin senses exquisitely alive, every nerve changed to intense vibration. Sometimes
she is perniciously awake; she is doing appalling things, things unjustifiable, preposterous;
things that would have meant perdition to any other writer; she sees with wild, erroneous eyes;
but the point is that she sees, that she keeps moving, that from the first page to the last
she is never once asleep. To come to Jane Eyre after The Professor is to pass into another
world of feeling and of vision.

It is not the difference between reality and unreality. The Professor is real enough, more
real in some minor points--dialogue, for instance--than Jane Eyre. The difference is that The
Professor is a transcript of reality, a very delicate and faithful transcript, and Jane Eyre
is reality itself, pressed on the senses. The pressure is so direct and so tremendous, that
it lasts through those moments when the writer's grip has failed.

For there are moments, long moments of perfectly awful failure in Jane Eyre. There are phrases
that make you writhe, such as "the etymology of the mansion's designation", and the shocking
persistency with which Charlotte Brontë "indites", "peruses", and "retains". There are whole
scenes that outrage probability. Such are the scenes, or parts of scenes, between Jane and
Rochester during the comedy of his courtship. The great orchard scene does not ring entirely
true. For pages and pages it falters between passion and melodrama; between rhetoric and the
cri de coeur. Jane in the very thick of her emotion can say, "I have talked, face to face,
with what I reverence, with what I delight in--with an original, a vigorous, an expanded mind.
I have known you, Mr. Rochester, and it strikes me with terror and anguish to feel I absolutely
must be torn from you for ever. I see the necessity for departure; and it is like looking on
the necessity of death." And the comedy is worse. Jane elaborates too much in those delicious
things she says to Rochester. Rochester himself provokes the parodist. (Such manners as Rochester's
were unknown in mid-Victorian literature.)

"He continued to send for me punctually the moment the clock struck seven; though when I appeared
before him now, he had no such honeyed terms as 'love' and 'darling' on his lips: the best
words at my disposal were 'provoking', 'malicious elf,' 'sprite', 'changeling', etc. For caresses,
too, I now got grimaces; for a pressure of the hand, a pinch on the arm; for a kiss on the
cheek, a severe tweak of the ear. It was all right: at present I decidedly preferred these
fierce favours to anything more tender."

Yet there is comedy, pure comedy in those scenes, though never sustained, and never wrought
to the inevitable dramatic climax. Jane is delightful when she asks Rochester whether the frown
on his forehead will be his "married look", and when she tells him to make a dressing-gown
for himself out of the pearl-grey silk, "and an infinite series of waistcoats out of the black
satin". The Quarterly was much too hard on the earlier cadeau scene, with Rochester and Jane
and Adèle, which is admirable in its suggestion of Jane's shyness and precision.

"'N'est-ce pas, Monsieur, qu'il y a un cadeau pour Mademoiselle Eyre, dans votre petit coffre?'"

"'Who talks of cadeaux?' said he gruffly; 'did you expect a present, Miss Eyre? Are you fond
of presents?' and he searched my face with eyes that I saw were dark, irate, and piercing.

"'I hardly know, sir; I have little experience of them; they are generally thought pleasant
things.'"

Charlotte Brontë was on her own ground there. But you tremble when she leaves it; you shudder
throughout the awful drawing-room comedy of Blanche Ingram. Blanche says to her mother: "Am
I right, Baroness Ingram of Ingram Park?" And her mother says to Blanche, "My lily-flower,
you are right now, as always." Blanche says to Rochester, "Signor Eduardo, are you in voice
to-night?" and he, "Donna Bianca, if you command it, I will be." And Blanche says to the footman,
"Cease that chatter, blockhead, and do my bidding."

That, Charlotte's worst lapse, is a very brief one, and the scene itself is unimportant. But
what can be said of the crucial scene of the novel, the tremendous scene of passion and temptation?
There is passion in the scene before it, between Jane and Rochester on the afternoon of the
wedding-day that brought no wedding.

"'Jane, I never meant to wound you thus. If the man who had but one little ewe lamb that was
dear to him as a daughter, that ate of his bread, and drank of his cup, and lay in his bosom,
had by some mistake slaughtered it at the shambles, he would not have rued his bloody blunder
more than I now rue mine. Will you ever forgive me?'... 'You know I am a scoundrel, Jane?'
ere long he inquired wistfully, wondering, I suppose, at my continued silence and tameness;
the result of weakness rather than of will.

"'Yes, sir.'

"'Then tell me so roundly and sharply--don't spare me.'

"'I cannot; I am tired and sick. I want some water.'

"He heaved a sort of shuddering sigh, and, taking me in his arms, carried me downstairs."

But there are terrible lapses. After Rochester's cry, "'Jane, my little darling ... If you
were mad, do you think I should hate you,'" he elaborates his idea and he is impossible: "'Your
mind is my treasure, and if it were broken it would be my treasure still; if you raved, my
arms should confine you and not a strait waistcoat--your grasp, even in fury, would have a
charm for me; if you flew at me as wildly as that woman did this morning, I should receive
you in an embrace at least as fond as it would be restrictive.'"

And in the final scene of temptation there is a most curious mingling of reality and unreality,
of the passion which is poetry, and the poetry which is not passion.

"'Never,' said he, as he ground his teeth, 'never was anything so frail, and so indomitable.
A mere reed she feels in my hand!' And he shook me with the force of his hold. 'I could bend
her with my finger and thumb; and what good would it do if I bent, if I uptore, if I crushed
her? Consider that eye: consider the resolute, wild, free thing looking out of it, defying
me, with more than courage--with a stern triumph. Whatever I do with its cage, I cannot get
at it--the savage, beautiful creature! If I tear, if I rend the slight prison, my outrage will
only let the captive loose. Conqueror I might be of the house; but the inmate would escape
to heaven before I could call myself possessor of its clay dwelling-place. And it is you, spirit--with
will and energy, and virtue and purity--that I want: not alone your brittle frame. Of yourself,
you could come with soft flight and nestle against my heart, if you would; seized against your
will you will elude the grasp like an essence--you will vanish ere I inhale your fragrance.
Oh, come, Jane, come!'"

It is the crucial scene of the book; and with all its power, with all its vehemence and passionate
reality it is unconvincing. It stirs you and it leaves you cold.

The truth is that in Jane Eyre Charlotte Brontë had not mastered the art of dialogue; and to
the very last she was uncertain in her handling of it. In this she is inferior to all the great
novelists of her time; inferior to some who were by no means great. She understood more of
the spiritual speech of passion than any woman before her, but she ignores its actual expression,
its violences, its reticences, its silences. In her great scenes she is inspired one moment,
and the next positively handicapped by her passion and her poetry. In the same sentence she
rises to the sudden poignant cri du coeur, and sinks to the artifice of metaphor. She knew
that passion is poetry, and poetry is passion; you might say it was all she knew, or ever cared
to know. But her language of passion is too often the language of written rather than of spoken
poetry, of poetry that is not poetry at all. It is as if she had never heard the speech of
living men and women. There is more actuality in the half-French chatter of Adèle than in any
of the high utterances of Jane and Rochester.

And yet her sense of the emotion behind the utterance is infallible, so infallible that we
accept the utterance. By some miracle, which is her secret, the passion gets through. The illusion
of reality is so strong that it covers its own lapses. Jane Eyre exists to prove that truth
is higher than actuality.

"'Jane suits me: do I suit her?'

"'To the finest fibre of my nature, sir.'"

If no woman alive had ever said that, it would yet be true to Jane's feeling. For it is a matter
of the finest fibres, this passion of Jane's, that set people wondering about Currer Bell,
that inflamed Mrs. Oliphant, as it inflamed the reviewer in The Quarterly, and made Charles
Kingsley think that Currer Bell was coarse. Their state of mind is incredible to us now. For
what did poor Jane do, after all? Nobody could possibly have had more respect for the ten commandments.
For all Rochester's raging, the ten commandments remain exactly where they were. It was inconceivable
to Charlotte Brontë that any decent man or woman could make hay, or wish to make hay, of them.
And yet Jane offended. She sinned against the unwritten code that ordains that a woman may
lie till she is purple in the face, but she must not, as a piece of gratuitous information,
tell a man she loves him; not, that is to say, in as many words. She may declare her passion
unmistakably in other ways. She may exhibit every ignominious and sickly sign of it; her eyes
may glow like hot coals; she may tremble; she may flush and turn pale; she may do almost anything,
provided she does not speak the actual words. In mid-Victorian times an enormous licence was
allowed her. She might faint, with perfect propriety, in public; she might become anaemic and
send for the doctor, and be ordered iron; she might fall ill, horridly and visibly, and have
to be taken away to spas and places to drink the waters. Everybody knew what that meant. If
she had shrieked her passion on the housetops she could hardly have published it more violently;
but nobody minded. It was part of the mid-Victorian convention.

Jane Eyre did none of these things. As soon as she was aware of her passion for Mr. Rochester
she thrust it down into the pocket of her voluminous mid-Victorian skirt and sat on it. Instead
of languishing and fainting where Rochester could see her, she held her head rather higher
than usual, and practised the spirited arts of retort and repartee. And nobody gave her any
credit for it. Then Rochester puts the little thing (poor Jane was only eighteen when it happened)
to the torture, and, with the last excruciating turn of the thumbscrew, she confesses. That
was the enormity that was never forgiven her.

"'You'll like Ireland, I think,'" says Rochester in his torturing mood; "'they are such kind-hearted
people there.'

"'It is a long way off, sir.'

"'No matter, a girl of your sense will not object to the voyage or the distance.'

"'Not the voyage, but the distance: and then the sea is a barrier.'

"'From what, Jane?'

"'From England and from Thornfield, and--'

"'Well?'

"'From you, sir.'"

She had done it. She had said, or almost said the words.

It just happened. There was magic in the orchard at Thornfield; there was youth in her blood;
and--"Jane, did you hear the nightingale singing in that wood?"

Still, she had done it.

And she was the first heroine who had. Adultery, with which we are fairly familiar, would have
seemed a lesser sin. There may be extenuating circumstances for the adulteress. There were
extenuating circumstances for Rochester. He could plead a wife who went on all fours. There
were no extenuating circumstances for little Jane. No use for her to say that she was upset
by the singing of the nightingale; that it didn't matter what she said to Mr. Rochester when
Mr. Rochester was going to marry Blanche Ingram, anyway; that she only flung herself at his
head because she knew she couldn't hit it; that her plainness gave her a certain licence, placing
her beyond the code. Not a bit of it. Jane's plainness was one thing that they had against
her. Until her time no heroine had been permitted to be plain. Jane's seizing of the position
was part of the general insolence of her behaviour.

Jane's insolence was indeed unparalleled. Having done the deed she felt no shame or sense of
sin; she stood straight up and defended herself. That showed that she was hardened.

It certainly showed--Jane's refusal to be abject--that Jane was far ahead of her age.

"'I tell you I must go!' I retorted, roused to something like passion. 'Do you think I can
stay to become nothing to you? Do you think I am an automaton?--a machine without feelings,
and can bear to have my morsel of bread snatched from my lips, and my drop of living water
dashed from my cup? Do you think, because I am poor, obscure, plain and little, I am soulless
and heartless? You think wrong! I have as much soul as you, and fully as much heart! And if
God had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth, I should have made it as hard for you to
leave me as it is now for me to leave you. I am not talking to you now through the medium of
custom, conventionalities, or even of mortal flesh: it is my spirit that addresses'" ("Addresses"?
oh, Jane!) "'your spirit; just as if both had passed through the grave, and we stood at God's
feet, equal--as we are!'"

This, allowing for some slight difference in the phrasing, is twentieth century. And it was
this--Jane's behaviour in the orchard, and not Rochester's behaviour in the past--that opened
the door to the "imps of evil meaning, polluting and defiling the domestic hearth."

Still, though The Quarterly censured Jane's behaviour, it was Rochester who caused most of
the trouble and the scandal by his remarkable confessions. In a sense they were remarkable.
Seldom, outside the pages of French fiction, had there been so lavish and public a display
of mistresses. And while it was agreed on all hands that Rochester was incredible with his
easy references to Céline and Giacinta and Clara, still more incredible was it that a young
woman in a country parsonage should have realized so much as the existence of Clara and Giacinta
and Céline. But, when Mrs. Gaskell and Madame Duclaux invoked Branwell and all his vices to
account for Charlotte's experience, they forgot that Charlotte had read Balzac,[A] and that
Balzac is an experience in himself. She had also read Moore's Life of Byron, and really there
is nothing in Rochester's confessions that Byron and a little Balzac would not account for.
So that they might just as well have left poor Branwell in his grave.

[Footnote A: I am wrong. Charlotte did not read Balzac till later, when George Henry Lewes
told her to. But there were those twenty "clever, wicked, sophistical, and immoral French books"
that she read in eighteen-forty. They may have served her purpose better.]

Indeed, it was the manner of Rochester's confession that gave away the secret of Currer Bell's
sex; her handling of it is so inadequate and perfunctory. Rochester is at his worst and most
improbable in the telling of his tale. The tale in itself is one of Charlotte's clumsiest contrivances
for conveying necessary information. The alternate baldness and exuberant, decorated, swaggering
boldness (for Charlotte's style was never bolder than when she was essaying the impossible)
alone betrayed the hand of an innocent woman. Curious that these makeshift passages with their
obviously second-hand material, their palpably alien mise en scène, should ever have suggested
a personal experience and provoked The Quarterly to its infamous and immortal utterance: "If
we ascribe the book to a woman at all, we have no alternative but to ascribe it to one who
has, for some sufficient reason, long forfeited the society of her own sex."

The Quarterly, to do it justice, argued that Currer Bell was a man, for only a man would have
betrayed such ignorance of feminine resources as to make Jane Eyre, on a night alarm, "hurry
on a frock and shawl". The reasoning passed. Nobody saw that such a man would be as innocent
as any parson's daughter. Nobody pointed out that, as it happened, Currer Bell had provided
her dowagers with "vast white wrappers" on the second night alarm. And, after all, the sex
of The Quarterly reviewer itself remains a problem. Long ago Mr. Andrew Lang detected the work
of two hands in that famous article. You may say there were at least three. There was, first,
the genial reviewer of Vanity Fair, who revels in the wickedness of Becky Sharpe, and who is
going to revel in the wickedness of Jane. Then suddenly some Mr. Brocklebank steps in, and
you get a "black-marble clergyman" on Jane Eyre.

"We have said," says this person, "that this was the picture of a natural heart. This, to our
view, is the great and crying mischief of the book. Jane Eyre is throughout the personification
of an unregenerate and undisciplined spirit, the more dangerous to exhibit from that prestige
of principle and self-control, which is liable to dazzle the eyes too much for it to observe
the insufficient and unsound foundation on which it rests. It is true Jane does right, and
exerts great moral strength; but it is the strength of a mere heathen mind which is a law unto
itself.... She has inherited the worst sin of our fallen nature--the sin of pride."

Jane, you see, should have sinned to show her Christian humility. The style, if not the reasoning,
is pure Brocklebank. He does "not hesitate to say that the tone of mind and thought, which
has overthrown authority and violated every code, human and divine, abroad, and fostered Chartism
and rebellion at home, is the same which has written Jane Eyre".

Ellis and Acton (poor Acton!) Bell get it even stronger than that; and then, suddenly again,
you come on a report on the "Condition of Governesses", palpably drawn up by a third person.
For years Miss Rigby, who was afterwards Lady Eastlake, got the credit for the whole absurd
performance, for she was known to have written the review on Vanity Fair. What happened seems
to have been that Miss Rigby set out in all honesty to praise Jane Eyre. Then some infuriated
person interfered and stopped her. The article was torn from the unfortunate Miss Rigby and
given to Brocklebank, who used bits of her here and there. Brocklebank, in his zeal, overdid
his part, so the report on Governesses was thrown in to give the whole thing an air of seriousness
and respectability. So that it is exceedingly doubtful whether, after all, it was a woman's
hand that dealt the blow.

If Charlotte Brontë did not feel the effect of it to the end of her life, she certainly suffered
severely at the time. It was responsible for that impassioned defence of Anne and Emily which
she would have been wiser to have left alone.

It must be admitted that Jane Eyre was an easy prey for the truculent reviewer, for its faults
were all on the surface, and its great qualities lay deep. Deep as they were, they gripped
the ordinary uncritical reader, and they gripped the critic in spite of himself, so that he
bitterly resented being moved by a work so flagrantly and obviously faulty. What was more,
the passion of the book was so intense that you were hardly aware of anything else, and its
author's austere respect for the ten commandments passed almost unobserved.

But when her enemies accuse Charlotte Brontë of glorifying passion they praise her unaware.
Her glory is that she did glorify it. Until she came, passion between man and woman had meant
animal passion. Fielding and Smollett had dealt with it solely on that footing. A woman's gentle,
legalized affection for her husband was one thing, and passion was another. Thackeray and Dickens,
on the whole, followed Fielding. To all three of them passion is an affair wholly of the senses,
temporary, episodic, and therefore comparatively unimportant. Thackeray intimated that he could
have done more with it but for his fear of Mrs. Grundy. Anyhow, passion was not a quality that
could be given to a good woman; and so the good women of Dickens and Thackeray are conspicuously
without it. And Jane Austen may be said to have also taken Fielding's view. Therefore she was
obliged to ignore passion. She gave it to one vulgar woman, Lydia Bennett, and to one bad one,
Mrs. Rushworth; and having given it them, she turned her head away and refused to have anything
more to do with these young women. She was not alone in her inability to "tackle passion".
No respectable mid-Victorian novelist could, when passion had so bad a name.

And it was this thing, cast down, defiled, dragged in the mud, and ignored because of its defilement,
that Charlotte Brontë took and lifted up. She washed it clean; she bathed it in the dew of
the morning; she baptized it in tears; she clothed it in light and flame; she showed it for
the divine, the beautiful, the utterly pure and radiant thing it is, "the very sublime of faith,
truth and devotion". She made it, this spirit of fire and air, incarnate in the body of a woman
who had no sensual charm. Because of it little Jane became the parent of Caterina and of Maggie
Tulliver; and Shirley prepared the way for Meredith's large-limbed, large-brained, large-hearted
women.

It was thus that Charlotte Brontë glorified passion. The passion that she glorified being of
the finest fibre, it was naturally not understood by people whose fibres were not fine at all.

It was George Henry Lewes (not a person of the finest fibre) who said of Jane Eyre that "the
grand secret of its success ... as of all great and lasting successes was its reality". In
spite of crudities, absurdities, impossibilities, it remains most singularly and startlingly
alive. In Jane Eyre Charlotte Brontë comes for the first time into her kingdom of the inner
life. She grasps the secret, unseen springs; in her narrow range she is master of the psychology
of passion and of suffering, whether she is describing the agony of the child Jane shut up
in that terrible red room, or the anguish of the woman on the morning of that wedding-day that
brought no wedding. Or take the scene of Jane's flight from Thornfield, or that other scene,
unsurpassed in its passion and tenderness, of her return to Rochester at Ferndean.

"To this house I came just ere dark, on an evening marked by the characteristics of sad sky,
cold gale, and continued small, penetrating rain.... Even within a very short distance of the
manor-house you could see nothing of it; so thick and dark grew the timber of the gloomy wood
about it. Iron gates between granite pillars showed me where to enter, and passing through
them, I found myself at once in the twilight of close-ranked trees. There was a grass-grown
track descending the forest aisle, between hoar and knotty shafts and under branched arches.
I followed it, expecting soon to reach the dwelling; but it stretched on and on, it wound far
and farther: no sign of habitation or grounds was visible.... At last my way opened, the trees
thinned a little; presently I beheld a railing, then the house--scarce, by this dim light,
distinguishable from the trees; so dank and green were its decaying walls. Entering a portal,
fastened only by a latch, I stood amidst a space of enclosed ground, from which the wood swept
away in a semicircle. There were no flowers, no garden-beds; only a broad gravel-walk girdling
a grass-plat, and this set in the heavy frame of the forest. The house presented two pointed
gables in its front; the windows were latticed and narrow: the front-door was narrow too, one
step led up to it.... It was still as a church on a week-day; the pattering rain on the forest
leaves was the only sound audible....

"I heard a movement--that narrow front-door was unclosing, and some shape was about to issue
from the grange.

"It opened slowly; a figure came out into the twilight and stood on the step; a man without
a hat: he stretched forth his hand as if to feel whether it rained. Dark as it was I had recognized
him....

"His form was of the same strong and stalwart contour as ever.... But in his countenance I
saw a change: that looked desperate and brooding--that reminded me of some wronged and fettered
wild beast or bird, dangerous to approach in his sullen woe. The caged eagle, whose gold-ringed
eyes cruelty has extinguished, might look as looked that sightless Samson."

Again--Rochester hears Jane's voice in the room where she comes to him.

"'And where is the speaker? Is it only a voice? Oh! I cannot see, but I must feel or my heart
will stop and my brain burst.'...

"He groped. I arrested his wandering hand, and prisoned it in both mine.

"'Her very fingers!' he cried; 'her small, slight fingers! If so, there must be more of her.'

"The muscular hand broke from my custody; my arm was seized, my shoulder--neck--wrist--I was
entwined and gathered to him....

"I pressed my lips to his once brilliant and now rayless eyes--I swept back his hair from his
brow and kissed that too. He suddenly seemed to rouse himself: the conviction of the reality
of all this seized him.

"'It is you--is it, Jane? You are come back to me then?'

"'I am.'"

The scene as it stands is far from perfect; but only Charlotte Brontë could sustain so strong
an illusion of passion through so many lapses. And all that passion counts for no more than
half in the astounding effect of reality she produces. Before Jane Eyre there is no novel written
by a woman, with the one exception of Wuthering Heights, that conveys so poignant an impression
of surroundings, of things seen and heard, of the earth and sky; of weather; of the aspects
of houses and of rooms. It suggests a positive exaltation of the senses of sound and light,
an ecstasy, an enchantment before the visible, tangible world. It is not a matter of mere faithful
observation (though few painters have possessed so incorruptibly the innocence of the eye).
It is an almost supernatural intentness; sensation raised to the nth power. Take the description
of the awful red room at Gateshead.

"A bed supported on massive pillars of mahogany, hung with curtains of deep red damask, stood
out like a tabernacle in the centre; the two large windows with their blinds always drawn down,
were half shrouded in festoons and falls of similar drapery; the carpet was red; the table
at the foot of the bed was covered with a crimson cloth; the walls were a soft fawn colour,
with a flush of pink in it; the wardrobe, the toilet-table, the chairs were of darkly-polished
old mahogany. Out of these deep surrounding shades rose high and glared white the piled-up
mattresses and pillows of the bed, spread with a snowy Marseilles counterpane. Scarcely less
prominent was an ample, cushioned easy-chair near the head of the bed, also white, with a footstool
before it; and looking, as I thought, like a pale throne.... Mr. Reed had been dead nine years:
it was in this chamber he breathed his last; here he lay in state; hence his coffin was borne
by the undertaker's men; and since that day a sense of dreary consecration had guarded it from
frequent intrusion."

Could anything be more horrible than that red room? Or take the descriptions of the school
at Lowood where the horror of pestilence hangs over house and garden. Through all these Gateshead
and Lowood scenes Charlotte is unerring and absolute in her reality.

Her very style, so uncertain in its rendering of human speech, becomes flawless in such passages
as this: "It was three o'clock; the church-bell tolled as I passed under the belfry: the charm
of the hour lay in its approaching dimness, in the low-gliding and pale-beaming sun. I was
a mile from Thornfield, in a lane noted for wild roses in summer, for nuts and blackberries
in autumn, and even now possessing a few coral treasures in hips and haws, but whose best winter
delight lay in its utter solitude and leafless repose. If a breath of air stirred, it made
no sound here; for there was not a holly, not an evergreen to rustle, and the stripped hawthorn
and hazel bushes were as still as the white, worn stones which causewayed the middle of the
path. Far and wide, on each side, there were only fields, where no cattle now browsed; and
the little brown birds, which stirred occasionally in the hedge, looked like single russet
leaves about to drop.

"This lane inclined up-hill all the way to Hay.... I then turned eastward.

"On the hill-top above me sat the rising moon; pale yet as a cloud, but brightening momently;
she looked over Hay which, half lost in trees, sent up a blue smoke from its few chimneys;
it was yet a mile distant, but in the absolute hush I could hear plainly its thin murmurs of
life. My ear, too, felt the flow of currents; in what dales and depths I could not tell: but
there were many hills beyond Hay, and doubtless many becks threading their passes. That evening
calm betrayed alike the tinkle of the nearest streams, the sough of the most remote.

"A rude noise broke on these fine ripplings and whisperings, at once so far away and so clear:
a positive tramp, tramp; a metallic clatter, which effaced the soft wave-wanderings; as, in
a picture, the solid mass of a crag, or the rough boles of a great oak, drawn in dark and strong
on the foreground, efface the aerial distance of azure hill, sunny horizon, and blended clouds,
where tint melts into tint.

"The din sounded on the causeway...."

Flawless this, too, of the sky after sunset: "Where the sun had gone down in simple state--pure
of the pomp of clouds--spread a solemn purple, burning with the light of red jewel and furnace
flame at one point, on one hill-peak, and extending high and wide, soft and still softer, over
half heaven."

And this of her own moors: "There are great moors behind and on each hand of me; there are
waves of mountains far beyond that deep valley at my feet. The population here must be thin,
and I see no passengers on these roads: they stretch out east, west, north and south--white,
broad, lonely; they are all cut in the moor, and the heather grows deep and wild to their very
verge."

She has given the secret of the moor country in a phrase: "I felt the consecration of its loneliness."
In that one line you have the real, the undying Charlotte Brontë.

It is such immortal things that make the difference between Jane Eyre and The Professor. So
immeasurable is that difference that it almost justifies the theorist in assuming an "experience"
to account for it, an experience falling between the dates of The Professor and Jane Eyre.
Unfortunately there was none; none in the sense cherished by the researcher. Charlotte's letters
are an unbroken record of those two years that followed her return from Brussels. Her life
is laid bare in its long and cramped monotony, a life singularly empty of "experience".

And yet an experience did come to her in that brief period. If the researcher had not followed
a false scent across the Channel, if his flair for tragic passion had not destroyed in him
all sense of proportion, he could not possibly have missed it; for it stared him in the face,
simple, obvious, inevitable. But miss it he certainly did. Obsessed by his idea, he considered
it a negligible circumstance that Charlotte should have read Wuthering Heights before she wrote
Jane Eyre. And yet, I think that, if anything woke Charlotte up, it was that. Until then, however
great her certainty of her own genius, she did not know how far she could trust it, how far
it would be safe to let imagination go. Appalled by the spectacle of its excesses, she had
divorced imagination from the real. But Emily knew none of these cold deliberations born of
fear. Wuthering Heights was the fruit of a divine freedom, a divine unconsciousness. It is
not possible that Charlotte, of all people, should have read Wuthering Heights without a shock
of enlightenment; that she should not have compared it with her own bloodless work; that she
should not have felt the wrong done to her genius by her self-repression. Emily had dared to
be herself; she had not been afraid of her own passion; she had had no method; she had accomplished
a stupendous thing without knowing it, by simply letting herself go. And Charlotte, I think,
said to herself, "That is what I ought to have done. That is what I will do next time." And
next time she did it. The experience may seem insufficient, but it is of such experiences that
a great writer's life is largely made. And if you must have an influence to account for Jane
Eyre, there is no need to go abroad to look for it. There was influence enough in her own home.
These three Brontës, adoring each other, were intolerant of any other influence; and the strongest
spirit, which was Emily's, prevailed. To be sure, no remonstrances from Emily or Charlotte
could stop Anne in her obstinate analysis of Walter Huntingdon; but it was some stray spark
from Emily that kindled Anne. As for Charlotte, her genius must have quickened in her when
her nerves thrilled to the shock of Wuthering Heights. This, I know, is only another theory;
but it has at least the merit of its modesty. It is not offered as in the least accounting
for, or explaining, Charlotte's genius. It merely suggests with all possible humility a likely
cause of its release. Anyhow, it is a theory that does Charlotte's genius no wrong, on which
account it seems to me preferable to any other. It is really no argument against it to say
that Charlotte never acknowledged her sister's influence, that she was indeed unaware of it;
for, in the first place, the stronger the spiritual tie between them, the less likely was she
to have been aware. In the second place, it is not claimed that Wuthering Heights was such
an influence as the "sojourn in Brussels" is said to have been--that it "made Miss Brontë an
author". It is not claimed that if there had been no Wuthering Heights and no Emily Brontë,
there would have been no Jane Eyre; for to me nothing can be more certain that whatever had,
or had not happened, Charlotte's genius would have found its way.

Charlotte's genius indeed was so profoundly akin to Charlotte's nature that its way, the way
of its upward progress, was by violent impetus and recoil.

In Shirley she revolts from the passion of Jane Eyre. She seems to have written it to prove
that there are other things. She had been stung by The Quarterly's attack, stung by rumour,
stung by every adverse thing that had been said. And yet not for a moment was she "influenced"
by her reviewers. It was more in defiance than in submission that she answered them with Shirley.
Shirley was an answer to every criticism that had yet been made. In Shirley she forsook the
one poor play of hearts insurgent for the vast and varied movement of the world; social upheavals,
the clash of sects and castes, the first grim hand-to-hand struggle between capital and labour,
all are there. The book opens with a drama, not of hearts but of artisans insurgent; frame-breakers,
not breakers of the marriage law. In sheer defiance she essays to render the whole real world,
the complex, many-threaded, many-coloured world; where the tragic warp is woven with the bright
comedy of curates. It is the world of the beginnings; the world of the early nineteenth century
that she paints. A world with the immensity, the profundity, the darkness of the brooding sea;
where the spirit of a woman moves, troubling the waters; for Charlotte Brontë has before her
the stupendous vision of the world as it was, as it yet is, and as it is to be.

That world, as it existed from eighteen-twelve to Charlotte's own time, eighteen-fifty, was
not a place for a woman with a brain and a soul. There was no career for any woman but marriage.
If she missed it she missed her place in the world, her prestige, and her privileges as a woman.
What was worse, she lost her individuality, and became a mere piece of furniture, of disused,
old-fashioned furniture, in her father's or her brother's house. If she had a father or a brother
there was no escape for her from dependence on the male; and if she had none, if there was
no male about the house, her case was the more pitiable. And the traditions of her upbringing
were such that the real, vital things, the things that mattered, were never mentioned in her
presence. Religion was the solitary exception; and religion had the reality and vitality taken
out of it by its dissociation with the rest of life. A woman in these horrible conditions was
only half alive. She had no energies, no passions, no enthusiasms. Convention drained her of
her life-blood. What was left to her had no outlet; pent up in her, it bred weak, anaemic substitutes
for its natural issue, sentimentalism for passion, and sensibility for the nerves of vision.
This only applies, of course, to the average woman.

Charlotte Brontë was born with a horror of the world that had produced this average woman,
this creature of minute corruptions and hypocrisies. She sent out Jane Eyre to purify it with
her passion. She sent out Shirley to destroy and rebuild it with her intellect. Little Jane
was a fiery portent. Shirley was a prophecy. She is modern to her finger-tips, as modern as
Meredith's great women: Diana, or Clara Middleton, or Carinthia Jane. She was born fifty years
before her time.

This is partly owing to her creator's prophetic insight, partly to her sheer truth to life.
For Shirley was to a large extent a portrait of Emily Brontë who was born before her time.

It is Emily Brontë's spirit that burns in Shirley Keeldar; and it is the spirit of Shirley
Keeldar that gives life to the unwilling mass of this vast novel. It is almost enough immortality
for Shirley that she is the only living and authentic portrait of Emily Brontë in her time.
Charlotte has given her the "wings that wealth can give", and they do not matter. She has also
given her the wings of Emily's adventurous soul, the wealth of her inner life.

"A still, deep, inborn delight glows in her young veins; unmingled--untroubled, not to be reached
or ravished by human agency, because by no human agency bestowed: the pure gift of God to His
creature, the free dower of Nature to her child. This joy gives her experience of a genii-life.
Buoyant, by green steps, by glad hills, all verdure and light, she reaches a station scarcely
lower than that whence angels looked down on the dreamer of Bethel, and her eye seeks, and
her soul possesses, the vision of life as she wishes it."

"Her eye seeks, and her soul possesses, the vision of life as she wishes it--" That was the
secret of Emily's greatness, of her immeasurable superiority to her sad sisters.

And again: "In Shirley's nature prevailed at times an easy indolence: there were periods when
she took delight in perfect vacancy of hand and eye--moments when her thoughts, her simple
existence, the fact of the world being around--and heaven above her, seemed to yield her such
fulness of happiness, that she did not need to lift a finger to increase the joy. Often, after
an active morning, she would spend a sunny afternoon in lying stirless on the turf, at the
foot of some tree of friendly umbrage: no society did she need but that of Caroline, and it
sufficed if she were within call; no spectacle did she ask but that of the deep blue sky, and
such cloudlets as sailed afar and aloft across its span; no sound but that of the bee's hum,
the leaf's whisper."

There are phrases in Louis Moore's diary that bring Emily Brontë straight before us in her
swift and vivid life. Shirley is "Sister of the spotted, bright, quick-fiery leopard." "Pantheress!--beautiful
forest-born!--wily, tameless, peerless nature! She gnaws her chain. I see the white teeth working
at the steel! She has dreams of her wild woods, and pinings after virgin freedom." "How evanescent,
fugitive, fitful she looked--slim and swift as a Northern streamer!" "... With her long hair
flowing full and wavy; with her noiseless step, her pale cheek, her eye full of night and lightning,
she looked, I thought, spirit-like--a thing made of an element--the child of a breeze and a
flame--the daughter of ray and raindrop--a thing never to be overtaken, arrested, fixed."

Like Emily she is not "caught". "But if I were," she says, "do you know what soothsayers I
would consult?... The little Irish beggar that comes barefoot to my door; the mouse that steals
out of the cranny in the wainscot; the bird that in frost and snow pecks at my window for a
crumb; the dog that licks my hand and sits beside my knee."

And yet again: "She takes her sewing occasionally: but, by some fatality, she is doomed never
to sit steadily at it for above five minutes at a time: her thimble is scarcely fitted on,
her needle scarce threaded, when a sudden thought calls her upstairs; perhaps she goes to seek
some just-then-remembered old ivory-backed needle-book, or older china-topped work-box, quite
unneeded, but which seems at the moment indispensable; perhaps to arrange her hair, or a drawer
which she recollects to have seen that morning in a state of curious confusion; perhaps only
to take a peep from a particular window at a particular view where Briarfield Church and Rectory
are visible, pleasantly bowered in trees. She has scarcely returned, and again taken up the
slip of cambric, or square of half-wrought canvas, when Tartar's bold scrape and strangled
whistle are heard at the porch door, and she must run to open it for him; it is a hot day;
he comes in panting; she must convoy him to the kitchen, and see with her own eyes that his
water-bowl is replenished. Through the open kitchen-door the court is visible, all sunny and
gay, and peopled with turkeys and their poults, peahens and their chicks, pearl-flecked Guinea
fowls, and a bright variety of pure white and purple-necked, and blue and cinnamon-plumed pigeons.
Irresistible spectacle to Shirley! She runs to the pantry for a roll, and she stands on the
doorstep scattering crumbs: around her throng her eager, plump, happy, feathered vassals....
There are perhaps some little calves, some little new-yeaned lambs--it may be twins, whose
mothers have rejected them: Miss Keeldar ... must permit herself the treat of feeding them
with her own hand."

Like Emily she is impatient of rituals and creeds. Like Emily she adores the Earth. Not one
of Charlotte's women except Shirley could have chanted that great prose hymn of adoration in
which Earth worships and is worshipped. "'Nature is now at her evening prayers; she is kneeling
before those red hills. I see her prostrate on the great steps of her altar, praying for a
fair night for mariners at sea, for travellers in deserts, for lambs on moors, and unfledged
birds in woods.... I see her, and I will tell you what she is like: she is like what Eve was
when she and Adam stood alone on earth.' 'And that is not Milton's Eve, Shirley,' says Caroline,
and Shirley answers: 'No, by the pure Mother of God, she is not.' Shirley is half a Pagan.
She would beg to remind Milton 'that the first men of the earth were Titans, and that Eve was
their mother: from her sprang Saturn, Hyperion, Oceanus; she bore Prometheus.... I say, there
were giants on the earth in those days, giants that strove to scale heaven. The first woman's
breast that heaved with life on this world yielded daring which could contend with Omnipotence;
the strength which could bear a thousand years of bondage--the vitality which could feed that
vulture death through uncounted ages--the unexhausted life and uncorrupted excellence, sisters
to immortality, which, after millenniums of crimes, struggles, and woes, could conceive and
bring forth a Messiah. The first woman was heaven-born: vast was the heart whence gushed the
well-spring of the blood of nations; and grand the undegenerate head where rested the consort-crown
of creation.'...

"'You have not yet told me what you saw kneeling on those hills.'

"'I saw--I now see--a woman-Titan; her robe of blue air spreads to the outskirts of the heath,
where yonder flock is grazing; a veil, white as an avalanche, sweeps from her head to her feet,
and arabesques of lightning flame on its borders. Under her breast I see her zone, purple like
that horizon: through its blush shines the star of evening. Her steady eyes I cannot picture;
they are clear--they are deep as lakes--they are lifted and full of worship--they tremble with
the softness of love and the lustre of prayer. Her forehead has the expanse of a cloud, and
is paler than the early moon, risen long before dark gathers: she reclines her bosom on the
edge of Stilbro' Moor; her mighty hands are joined beneath it. So kneeling, face to face, she
speaks with God.'"

It is the living sister speaking for the dead; for Charlotte herself had little of Emily's
fine Paganism. But for one moment, in this lyric passage, her soul echoes the very soul of
Emily as she gathers round her all the powers and splendours (and some, alas, of the fatal
rhetoric) of her prose to do her honour.

It is not only in the large figure of the Titan Shirley that Charlotte Brontë shows her strength.
She has learnt to draw her minor masculine characters with more of insight and of accuracy--Caroline
Helstone, the Yorkes, Robert Moore, Mr. Helstone, Joe Scott, and Barraclough, the "joined Methody".
With a few strokes they stand out living. She has acquired more of the art of dialogue. She
is a past master of dialect, of the racy, native speech of these men. Not only is Mr. Yorke
painted with unerring power and faithfulness in every detail of his harsh and vigorous personality,
but there is no single lapse from nature when he is speaking. The curates only excepted, Charlotte
never swerves from this fidelity. But when she is handling her curates, it is a savage and
utterly inartistic humour that inspires her. You feel that she is not exercising the art of
comedy, but relieving her own intolerable boredom and irritation. No object could well be more
innocent, and more appealing in its innocence, than little Mr. Sweeting, curate of Nunnerly.
Mr. Sweeting at the tea-table, "having a dish of tarts before him, and marmalade and crumpet
upon his plate", should have moved the Comic Spirit to tears of gentleness.

Curates apart, two-thirds of Shirley are written with an unerring devotion to the real, to
the very actual. They have not, for all that, the profound reality of Jane Eyre. The events
are confused, somehow; the atmosphere is confusing; the northern background is drawn with a
certain hardness and apathy of touch; the large outlines are obscured, delicate colours sharpened;
it is hard and yet blurred, like a bad steel engraving. Charlotte's senses, so intensely, so
supernaturally alive in Jane Eyre, are only passably awake in Shirley. It has some of the dulness
of The Professor, as it has more than its sober rightness. But, for three-and-twenty chapters,
the sobriety, the rightness triumph. There are no improbabilities, no flights of imagination,
none of the fine language which was the shame when it was not the glory of Jane Eyre.

Then suddenly there comes a break--a cleavage. It comes with that Chapter Twenty-four, which
is headed "The Valley of the Shadow of Death". It was written in the first months after Emily
Brontë's death.

From that point Charlotte's level strength deserts her. Ever after, she falls and soars, and
soars and falls again. There is a return to the manner of Jane Eyre, the manner of Charlotte
when she is deeply moved; there is at times a relapse to Jane Eyre's worst manner. You get
it at once in "The Valley of the Shadow" chapter, in the scene of Caroline's love-sick delirium.

"'But he will not know I am ill till I am gone; and he will come when they have laid me out,
and I am senseless, cold and stiff.

"'What can my departed soul feel then? Can it see or know what happens to the clay? Can spirits,
through any medium, communicate with living flesh? Can the dead at all revisit those they leave?
Can they come in the elements? Will wind, water, fire lend me a path to Moore?

"'Is it for nothing the wind sounds almost articulate sometimes--sings as I have lately heard
it sing at night--or passes the casement sobbing, as if for sorrow to come? Does nothing then
haunt it--nothing inspire it?'"

The awful improbability of Caroline is more striking because of its contrast with the inspired
rightness of the scene of Cathy's delirium in Wuthering Heights. It is Charlotte feebly echoing
Emily, and going more and more wrong up to her peroration.

Delirious Caroline wonders: "'What is that electricity they speak of, whose changes make us
well or ill; whose lack or excess blasts; whose even balance revives?...'

"'Where is the other world? In what will another life consist? Why do I ask? Have I not cause
to think that the hour is hasting but too fast when the veil must be rent for me? Do I not
know the Grand Mystery is likely to break prematurely on me? Great Spirit, in whose goodness
I confide; whom, as my Father, I have petitioned night and morning from early infancy, help
the weak creation of Thy hands! Sustain me through the ordeal I dread and must undergo! Give
me strength! Give me patience! Give me--oh, give me FAITH!'"

Jane Eyre has done worse than that, so has Rochester; but somehow, when they were doing their
worst with it, they got their passion through. There is no live passion behind this speech
of Caroline's, with its wild stress of italics and of capitals. What passion there was in Charlotte
when she conceived Caroline was killed by Emily's death.

And Mrs. Pryor, revealing herself to Caroline, is even more terrible. She has all the worst
vices of Charlotte's dramatic style. Mrs. Pryor calls to the spirit of Caroline's dead father:
"'James, slumber peacefully! See, your terrible debt is cancelled! Look! I wipe out the long,
black account with my own hand! James, your child atones: this living likeness of you--this
thing with your perfect features--this one good gift you gave me has nestled affectionately
to my heart and tenderly called me "mother". Husband, rest forgiven.'"

Even Robert Moore, otherwise almost a masterpiece, becomes improbable when, in his great scene,
Shirley refuses him. When Mr. Yorke asks him what has gone wrong he replies: "The machinery
of all my nature; the whole enginery of this human mill; the boiler, which I take to be the
heart, is fit to burst."

Shirley herself is impossible with her "Lucifer, Star of the Morning, thou art fallen," and
her speech to her mercenary uncle: "Sir, your god, your great Bell, your fish-tailed Dagon,
rises before me as a demon."

What is worse than all, Louis Moore--Louis, the hero, Louis, the master of passion, is a failure.
He is Charlotte Brontë's most terrible, most glaring failure. It is not true that Charlotte
could not draw men, or that she drew them all alike; Robert Moore, the hard-headed man of business,
the man of will and purpose, who never gives up, is not only almost a masterpiece but a spontaneous
masterpiece, one of the first examples of his kind. But there is no blood in Louis' veins,
no virility in his swarthy body. He is the most unspeakable of schoolmasters. Yet Charlotte
lavished on this puppet half the wealth of her imagination. She flings phrase after perfect
phrase to him to cover himself with--some of her best things have been given to Louis Moore
to utter; but they do not make him live. Again, she strangles him in his own rhetoric. The
courtship of Louis Moore and Shirley will not compare with that of Jane and Rochester. There
is no nightingale singing in their wood.

Yet, for all that, Shirley comes very near to being Charlotte Brontë's masterpiece. It is inspired
from first to last with a great intention and a great idea. It shows a vision of reality wider
than her grasp. Its faults, like the faults of Jane Eyre, are all on the surface, only there
is more surface in Shirley. If it has not Jane Eyre's commanding passion, it has a vaster sweep.
It was literally the first attempt in literature to give to woman her right place in the world.

From first to last there is not a page or a line in it that justifies the malignant criticism
of Mrs. Oliphant. Caroline Helstone does not justify it. She is no window-gazing virgin on
the look-out, in love already before the man has come. She is a young girl, very naturally
in love with a man whom she has known for years, who is always on the spot. As for Shirley,
she flung herself with all the vehemence of her prophetic soul on the hypocritical convention
that would make every woman dependent on some man, and at the same time despises her for the
possession of her natural instincts. And Caroline followed her. "I observe that to such grievances
as society cannot cure, it usually forbids utterance, on pain of its scorn: this scorn being
only a sort of tinselled cloak to its deformed weakness. People hate to be reminded of ills
they are unable or unwilling to remedy: such reminder, in forcing on them a sense of their
own incapacity, or a more painful sense of an obligation to make some unpleasant effort, troubles
their ease and shakes their self-complacency. Old maids, like the houseless and unemployed
poor, should not ask for a place and an occupation in the world: the demand disturbs the happy
and rich: it disturbs parents.... Men of England! Look at your poor girls, many of them fading
round you, dropping off in consumption or decline; or, what is worse, degenerating to sour
old maids--envious, back-biting, wretched, because life is a desert to them; or, what is worst
of all, reduced to strive, by scarce modest coquetry and debasing artifice, to gain that position
and consideration by marriage, which to celibacy is denied. Fathers, cannot you alter these
things?... You would wish to be proud of your daughters, and not to blush for them, then seek
for them an interest and an occupation which shall raise them above the flirt, the manoeuvrer,
the mischief-making talebearer. Keep your girl's minds narrow and degraded--they will still
be a plague and a care, sometimes a disgrace to you: give them scope and work--they will be
your gayest companions in health; your tenderest nurses in sickness; your most faithful prop
in old age."

That is the argument from fathers, and it comes from Caroline Helstone, not from Shirley. And
the fact that Caroline married Robert Moore, and Shirley fell in love when her hour came (and
with Louis Moore, too!) does not diminish the force or the sincerity or the truth of the tirade.

Shirley may not be a great novel; but it is a great prophetic book. Shirley's vision of the
woman kneeling on the hills serves for more than Emily Brontë's vision of Hertha and Demeter,
of Eve, the Earth-mother, "the mighty and mystical parent"; it is Charlotte Brontë's vindication
of Eve, her vision of woman as she is to be. She faced the world once for all with her vision:
"I see her," she said, "and I will tell you what she is like."

Mrs. Oliphant did not see the woman kneeling on the hills. Neither George Eliot nor Mrs. Gaskell
saw her. They could not possibly have told the world what she was like. It is part of Charlotte
Brontë's superior greatness that she saw.

       *       *       *       *       *

You do not see that woman in Villette. She has passed with the splendour of Charlotte's vision
of the world. The world in Villette is narrowed to a Pensionnat de Demoiselles, and centred
in the heart of one woman. And never, not even in Jane Eyre, and certainly not in Shirley,
did Charlotte Brontë achieve such mastery of reality, and with it such mastery of herself.
Villette is the final triumph of her genius over the elements that warred in her. It shows
the movement of her genius, which was always by impulse and recoil. In The Professor she abjured,
in the interests of reality, the "imagination" of her youth. In Jane Eyre she was urged forward
by the released impetus of the forces she repressed. In Shirley they are still struggling with
her sense of the sober and the sane reality; the book is torn to fragments in the struggle,
and in the end imagination riots.

But in Villette there are none of these battlings and rendings, these Titanic upheavals and
subsidences. Charlotte Brontë's imagination, and her sense of the real, are in process of fusion.
There are few novels in which an imagination so supreme is wedded to so vivid a vision of actuality.
It may be said that Charlotte Brontë never achieved positive actuality before. The Pensionnat
de Demoiselles is almost as visibly and palpably actual as the Maison Vauquer in Père Goriot.
It is a return to the method of experience with a vengeance. Charlotte's success, indeed, was
so stunning that for all but sixty years Villette has passed for a roman à clef, the novel,
not only of experience, but of personal experience. There was a certain plausibility in that
view. The characters could all be easily recognized. And when Dr. John was identified with
Mr. George Smith, and his mother with Mr. George Smith's mother, and Madame Beck with Madame
Héger, and M. Paul Emanuel with Madame Héger's husband, the inference was irresistible: Lucy
Snowe was, and could only be, Charlotte Brontë. And as the figure of M. Paul Emanuel was ten
times more vivid and convincing than that of Rochester, so all that applied to Jane Eyre applied
with ten times more force to Lucy. In Villette Charlotte Brontë was considered to have given
herself hopelessly away.

I have tried to show that this view cannot stand before an unprejudiced examination of her
life and letters. No need to go into all that again. On the evidence, Charlotte seems at the
best of times to have fallen in love with difficulty; and she most certainly was no more in
love with "the little man", Paul Emanuel, than she was with "the little man", Mr. Taylor. The
really important and interesting point is that, if she had been, if he had thus obtained the
reality with which passion endows its object, her imagination would have had no use for him;
its work would have been done for it.

To the supreme artist the order of the actual event is one thing, and the order of creation
is another. Their lines may start from the same point in the actual, they may touch again and
again, but they are not the same, and they cannot run exactly parallel. There must always be
this difference between the actual thing and the thing drawn from it, however closely, that
each is embedded and enmeshed in a different context. For a character in a novel to be alive
it must have grown; and to have grown it must have followed its own line of evolution, inevitably
and in its own medium; and that, whether or not it has been "taken", as they say, "from life".
The more alive it is the less likely is it to have been "taken", to have been seized, hauled
by the scruff of its neck out of the dense web of the actual. All that the supreme artist wants
is what Charlotte Brontë called "the germ of the real", by which she meant the germ of the
actual. He does not want the alien, developed thing, standing in its own medium ready-made.
Charlotte Brontë said that the character of Dr. John was a failure because it lacked the germ
of the real. She should have said that it lacked the germ of many reals; it is so obviously
drawn from incomplete observation of a single instance. I am inclined to think that she did
"take" Dr. John. And whenever Charlotte Brontë "took" a character, as she took the unfortunate
curates and Mr. St. John Rivers, the result was failure.

No supreme work of art was ever "taken". It was begotten and born and grown, the offspring
of faithful love between the soul of the artist and reality. The artist must bring to his "experience"
as much as he takes from it. The dignity of Nature is all against these violences and robberies
of art. She hides her deepest secret from the marauder, and yields it to the lover who brings
to her the fire of his own soul.

And that fire of her own soul was what Charlotte Brontë brought to her supreme creations. It
was certainly what she brought to Paul Emanuel. Impossible to believe that M. Héger gave her
more than one or two of the germs of M. Paul. Personally, I can only see the respectable M.
Héger as a man whose very essence was a certain impassivity and phlegm under the appearance
of a temperament. Choleric he was, with the superficial and temporary choler of the schoolmaster.
A schoolmaster gifted with the most extraordinary, the most marvellous, the most arresting
faculty for making faces, a faculty which in an Englishman would have argued him a perfect
volcano of erratic temperament. But I more than suspect that when it came to temperament M.
Héger took it out in faces; that he was nothing more than a benevolent, sentimental, passably
intellectual bourgeois; but bourgeois to the core. Whereas, look at M. Paul! No wonder that
with that tame and solid stuff before her it took even Charlotte Brontë's fiery spirit nine
years (torturing the unwilling dross that checked its flight) before it could create Paul Emanuel.
Because of her long work on him he is at once the most real and the best imagined of her characters.

I admit that in the drawing of many of her minor characters she seems to have relied upon very
close and intimate observation of the living model. But in none of her minor characters is
she at grips with the reality that, for her, passion is. Charlotte refused to give heroic rank
to persons she had merely observed; she would not exalt them to the dignity of passion. Her
imagination could not work on them to that extent. (That is partly why Caroline's delirium
is so palpably "faked".) Even in her portrait of the heroic Shirley, who was frankly "taken"
from her sister Emily, she achieved the likeness mainly by the artifice of unlikeness, by removing
Shirley Keeldar into a life in which Emily Brontë had never played a part, whereby Shirley
became for her a separate person. (You cannot by any stretch of the imagination see Emily falling
in love with the schoolmaster, Louis Moore.)

Lest there should be any doubt on the subject, Charlotte herself explained to Mrs. Gaskell
how her imagination worked. "I asked her," Mrs. Gaskell says, "whether she had ever taken opium,
as the description given of its effects in Villette was so exactly like what I had experienced--vivid
and exaggerated presence of objects, of which the outlines were indistinct, or lost in golden
mist, etc. She replied that she had never, to her knowledge, taken a grain of it in any shape,
but that she had followed the process she always adopted when she had to describe anything
that had not fallen within her own experience; she had thought intently on it for many and
many a night before falling asleep--wondering what it was like, or how it would be--till at
length, sometimes after her story had been arrested at this one point for weeks, she wakened
up in the morning with all clear before her, as if she had in reality gone through the experience,
and then could describe it, word for word, as it happened."

To a mind like that the germ of the actual was enough. Charlotte Brontë's genius, in fact,
was ardently impatient of the actual: it cared only for its own. At the least hint from experience
it was off. A glance, a gesture of M. Héger's was enough to fire it to the conception of Paul
Emanuel. He had only to say a kind word to her, to leave a book or a box of bon-bons in her
desk (if he did leave bon-bons) for Charlotte's fire to work on him. She had only to say to
herself, "This little man is adorable in friendship; I wonder what he would be like in love,"
and she saw that he would be something, though not altogether, like Paul Emanuel. She had only
to feel a pang of half-remorseful, half-humorous affection for him, and she knew what Lucy
felt like in her love-sick agony. As for Madame Héger, Madame's purely episodic jealousy, her
habits of surveillance, her small inscrutabilities of behaviour, became the fury, the treachery,
the perfidy of Madame Beck. For treachery and perfidy, and agony and passion, were what Charlotte
wanted for Villette.

And yet it is true that Villette is a novel of experience, owing its conspicuous qualities
very much to observation. After all, a contemporary novel cannot be made altogether out of
the fire of the great writer's soul. It is because Charlotte Brontë relied too much on the
fire of her own soul that in Jane Eyre and parts of Shirley she missed that unique expression
of actuality which, over and over again, she accomplished in Villette. For the expression of
a social milieu, for manners, for the dialogue of ordinary use, for the whole detail of the
speech characteristic of an individual and a type, for the right accent and pitch, for all
the vanishing shades and aspects of the temporary and the particular, the greatest and the
fieriest writer is at the mercy of observation and experience. It was her final mastery of
these things that made it possible to praise Charlotte Brontë's powers of observation at the
expense of her genius; and this mainly because of M. Paul.

No offspring of genius was ever more alive, more rich in individuality, than M. Paul. He is
alive and he is adorable, in his paletot and bonnet grec, from the moment when he drags Lucy
up three pairs of stairs to the solitary and lofty attic and locks her in, to that other moment
when he brings her to the little house that he has prepared for her. Whenever he appears there
is pure radiant comedy, and pathos as pure. It is in this utter purity, this transparent simplicity,
that Villette is great. There is not one jarring note in any of the delicious dialogues between
Lucy and M. Paul, not one of those passages which must be erased if quotation is not to fail
of its effect. Take the scene where Lucy breaks M. Paul's spectacles.

"A score of times ere now I had seen them fall and receive no damage--this time, as Lucy Snowe's
hapless luck would have it, they so fell that each clear pebble became a shivered and shapeless
star.

"Now, indeed, dismay seized me--dismay and regret. I knew the value of these lunettes: M. Paul's
sight was peculiar, not easily fitted, and these glasses suited him. I had heard him call them
his treasures: as I picked them up, cracked and worthless, my hand trembled. Frightened through
all my nerves I was to see the mischief I had done, but I think I was even more sorry than
afraid. For some seconds I dared not look the bereaved Professor in the face; he was the first
to speak.

"'Là!' he said: 'me voilà veuf de mes lunettes! I think that Mademoiselle Lucy will now confess
that the cord and gallows are amply earned; she trembles in anticipation of her doom. Ah, traitress,
traitress! You are resolved to have me quite blind and helpless in your hands!'

"I lifted my eyes: his face, instead of being irate, lowering and furrowed, was overflowing
with the smile, coloured with the bloom I had seen brightening it that evening at the Hotel
Crécy. He was not angry--not even grieved. For the real injury he showed himself full of clemency;
under the real provocation, patient as a saint."

Take the "Watchguard" scene.

"M. Paul came and stood behind me. He asked at what I was working; and I said I was making
a watchguard. He asked, 'For whom?' And I answered, 'For a gentleman--one of my friends.'"

Whereupon M. Paul flies into a passion, and accuses Lucy of behaving to him, "'With what pungent
vivacities--what an impetus of mutiny--what a fougue of injustice.'... 'Chut! à l'instant!
There! there I went--vive comme la poudre.' He was sorry--he was very sorry: for my sake he
grieved over the hopeless peculiarity. This emportement, this chaleur--generous, perhaps, but
excessive--would yet, he feared, do me a mischief. It was a pity. I was not--he believed, in
his soul--wholly without good qualities; and would I but hear reason, and be more sedate, more
sober, less en l'air, less coquette, less taken by show, less prone to set an undue value on
outside excellence--to make much of the attentions of people remarkable chiefly for so many
feet of stature, des couleurs de poupée, un nez plus ou moins bien fait, and an enormous amount
of fatuity--I might yet prove a useful, perhaps an exemplary character. But, as it was----And
here the little man's voice was for a moment choked.

"I would have looked up at him, or held out my hand, or said a soothing word; but I was afraid,
if I stirred, I should either laugh or cry; so odd, in all this, was the mixture of the touching
and the absurd.

"I thought he had nearly done: but no, he sat down that he might go on at his ease.

"'While he, M. Paul, was on these painful topics, he would dare my anger for the sake of my
good, and would venture to refer to a change he had noticed in my dress.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

"'And if you condemn a bow of ribbon for a lady, monsieur, you would necessarily disapprove
of a thing like this for a gentleman?' holding up my bright little chainlet of silk and gold.
His sole reply was a groan--I suppose over my levity.

"After sitting some minutes in silence, and watching the progress of the chain, at which I
now wrought more assiduously than ever, he inquired:

"'Whether what he had just said would have the effect of making me entirely detest him?'

"I hardly remember what answer I made, or how it came about; I don't think I spoke at all,
but I know we managed to bid good night on friendly terms: and even after M. Paul had reached
the door, he turned back just to explain that he would not be understood to speak in entire
condemnation of the scarlet dress.'...

"'And the flowers under my bonnet, monsieur?' I asked. 'They are very little ones.'

"'Keep them little, then,' said he. 'Permit them not to become full-blown.'

"'And the bow, monsieur--the bit of ribbon?'

"'Va pour le ruban!' was the propitious answer.

"And so we settled it."

That is good; and when Lucy presents the watchguard it is better still.

"He looked at the box: I saw its clear and warm tint, and bright azure circlet, pleased his
eyes. I told him to open it.

"'My initials!' said he, indicating the letters in the lid. 'Who told you I was called Carl David?'

"'A little bird, monsieur.'

"'Does it fly from me to you? Then one can tie a message under its wing when needful.'

"He took out the chain--a trifle indeed as to value, but glossy with silk and sparkling with
beads. He liked that too--admired it artlessly, like a child.

"'For me?'

"'Yes, for you.'

"'This is the thing you were working at last night?'

"'The same.'

"'You finished it this morning?'

"'I did.'

"'You commenced it with the intention that it should be mine?'

"'Undoubtedly.'

"'And offered on my fête-day?'

"'Yes.'

"'This purpose continued as you wove it?'

"'Again I assented.'

"'Then it is not necessary that I should cut out any portion--saying, this part is not mine:
it was plaited under the idea and for the adornment of another?'

"'By no means. It is neither necessary, nor would it be just.'

"'This object is all mine?'

"'That object is yours entirely.'

"Straightway monsieur opened his paletot, arranged the guard splendidly across his chest, displaying
as much and suppressing as little as he could: for he had no notion of concealing what he admired
and thought decorative....

"'À present c'est un fait accompli,' said he, readjusting his paletot...."

To the last gesture of Monsieur it is superb.

I have taken those scenes because they are of crucial importance as indications of what Charlotte
Brontë was doing in Villette, and yet would do. They show not only an enormous advance in technique,
but a sense of the situation, of the scène à faire, which is entirely or almost entirely lacking
in her earlier work.

If there be degrees in reality, Lucy and Pauline de Bassompierre are only less real than M.
Paul. And by some miracle their reality is not diminished by Charlotte Brontë's singular change
of intention with regard to these two. Little Polly, the child of the beginning, the inscrutable
creature of nerves, exquisitely sensitive to pain, fretting her heart out in love for her father
and for Graham Bretton, is hardly recognizable in Pauline, Countess de Bassompierre. She has
preserved only her fragility, her fastidiousness, her little air of inaccessibility. Polly
is obviously predestined to that profound and tragic suffering which is Lucy Snowe's.

"I watched Polly rest her small elbow on her small knee, her head on her hand; I observed her
draw a square inch or two of pocket-handkerchief from the doll-pocket of her doll-skirt, and
then I heard her weep. Other children in grief or pain cry aloud, without shame or restraint,
but this being wept: the tiniest occasional sniff testified to her emotion."

Again (Polly is parted from her father): "When the street-door closed, she dropped on her knees
at a chair with a cry--'Papa!'

"It was low and long; a sort of 'why hast thou forsaken me?' During an ensuing space of some
minutes I perceived she endured agony. She went through, in that brief interval of her infant
life, emotions such as some never feel; it was in her constitution: she would have more of
such instants if she lived."

Polly is contrasted with the cold and disagreeable Lucy. "I, Lucy Snowe, was calm," Lucy says
when she records that agony. The effect she gives, of something creepily insensitive and most
unpleasant, is unmistakable in these early chapters. She watches Polly with a cold, analytic
eye. "These sudden, dangerous natures--sensitive as they are called--offer many a curious spectacle
to those whom a cooler temperament has secured from participation in their vagaries." When
Polly, charming Polly, waits on her father at the tea-table, Lucy is impervious to her tiny
charm. "Candidly speaking, I thought her a little busy-body." When Graham Bretton repulses
Polly, Lucy has some thoughts of "improving the occasion by inculcating some of those maxims
of philosophy whereof I had ever a tolerable stock ready for application."

There is no sign in the beginning that this detestable Lucy is to be heroine. But in Chapter
Four Polly disappears and Lucy takes her place and plays her part. The child Polly had a suffering
and passionate heart, for all her little air of fastidiousness and inaccessibility. It is the
suffering and passionate heart of Polly that beats in Lucy of the Pensionnat. There is only
enough of the original Lucy left to sit in judgment on Ginevra Fanshawe and "the Parisienne".

The child Polly had an Imagination. "'Miss Snowe,' said she in a whisper, 'this is a wonderful
book ... it tells about distant countries, a long, long way from England, which no traveller
can reach without sailing thousands of miles over the sea.... Here is a picture of thousands
gathered in a desolate place--a plain spread with sand.... And here are pictures more stranger
than that. There is the wonderful Great Wall of China; here is a Chinese lady with a foot littler
than mine. There is a wild horse of Tartary; and here--most strange of all--is a land of ice
and snow without green fields, woods, or gardens. In this land they found some mammoth bones;
there are no mammoths now. You don't know what it was; but I can tell you, because Graham told
me. A mighty goblin creature, as high as this room, and as long as the hall; but not a fierce,
flesh-eating thing, Graham thinks. He believes if I met one in a forest, it would not kill
me, unless I came quite in its way; when it would trample me down amongst the bushes, as I
might tread on a grasshopper in a hay-field without knowing it.'"

It is Polly's Imagination that appears again in Lucy's "Creative Impulse". "I with whom that
Impulse was the most intractable, the most capricious, the most maddening of masters ... a
deity which sometimes, under circumstances apparently propitious, would not speak when questioned,
would not hear when appealed to, would not, when sought, be found; but would stand, all cold,
all indurated, all granite, a dark Baal with carven lips and blank eyeballs, and breast like
the stone face of a tomb; and again, suddenly, at some turn, some sound, some long-trembling
sob of the wind, at some rushing past of an unseen stream of electricity, the irrational Demon
would awake unsolicited, would stir strangely alive, would rush from its pedestal like a perturbed
Dagon, calling to its votary for a sacrifice, whatever the hour--to its victim for some blood
or some breath, whatever the circumstances or scene--rousing its priest, treacherously promising
vaticination, perhaps filling its temple with a strange hum of oracles, but sure to give half
the significance to fateful winds, and grudging to the desperate listener even a miserable
remnant--yielding it sordidly, as though each word had been a drop of the deathless ichor of
its own dark veins."

That is Lucy. But when Polly reappears fitfully as Pauline de Bassompierre, she is an ordinary,
fastidious little lady without a spark of imagination or of passion.

Now in the first three chapters of Villette, Charlotte Brontë concentrated all her strength
and all her art on the portrait of little Polly. The portrait of little Polly is drawn with
the most delicate care and tender comprehension, and the most vivid and entire reality. I cannot
agree with Mr. Swinburne that George Eliot, with her Totty and Eppie and Lillo, showed a closer
observation of the ways, or a more perfect understanding of the heart of a child. Only little
Maggie Tulliver can stand beside little Polly in Villette. She is an answer to every critic,
from Mr. Swinburne downwards, who maintains that Charlotte Brontë could not draw children.

But Lucy at fourteen is drawn with slight and grudging strokes, sufficient for the minor part
she is evidently to play. Lucy at Bretton is a mere foil to little Polly. Charlotte Brontë
distinctly stated in her letters that she did not care for Miss Snowe. "Lucy must not marry
Dr. John; he is far too youthful, handsome, bright-spirited, and sweet-tempered; he is a 'curled
darling' of Nature and of fortune, and must draw a prize in life's lottery. His wife must be
young, rich, pretty; he must be made very happy indeed. If Lucy marries anybody, it must be
the Professor--a man in whom there is much to forgive, much to 'put up with'. But I am not
leniently disposed towards Miss Frost: from the beginning I never meant to appoint her lines
in pleasant places." "As to the character of Lucy Snowe, my intention from the first was that
she should not occupy the pedestal to which Jane Eyre was raised by some injudicious admirers.
She is where I meant her to be, and where no charge of self-laudation can touch her."

But Lucy is not altogether where she was meant to be. When she reappears at the Pensionnat
it is with "flame in her soul and lightning in her eyes". She reminds M. Paul "of a young she
wild creature, new caught, untamed, viewing with a mixture of fire and fear the first entrance
of the breaker-in".

"'You look,' said he, 'like one who would snatch at a draught of sweet poison, and spurn wholesome
bitters with disgust.'"

There is no inconsistency in this. Women before now have hidden a soul like a furnace under
coldness and unpleasantness, and smothered shrieking nerves under an appearance of apathy.
Lucy Snowe is one of them. As far as she goes, Lucy at Bretton is profoundly consistent with
Lucy in Villette. It is not Lucy's volcanic outbreaks in the Pensionnat that do violence to
her creator's original intention. It is the debasement of Polly and the exaltation of Lucy
to her tragic rôle, the endowment of Lucy with Polly's rarest qualities, to the utter impoverishment
of Pauline de Bassompierre. Polly in Villette is a mere foil to Lucy.

Having lavished such care and love on Polly, Charlotte Brontë could not possibly have meant
to debase her and efface her. How then did it happen that Polly was debased and Lucy sublimely
exalted?

It happened, I think, partly because for the first time Charlotte Brontë created a real living
man. The reality of M. Paul Emanuel was too strong both for Lucy and for Charlotte Brontë.
From the moment when he seized her and dragged her to the garret he made Lucy live as Charlotte
Brontë had never contemplated her living. He made her live to the utter exclusion and extinction
of Pauline de Bassompierre.

And "the despotic little man" dominates the book to an extent that Charlotte never contemplated
either. Until the storm carried him out of her sight, she was, I think, unaware of his dominion.
Dr. John was her hero. She told Mr. George Smith, his prototype, that she intended him for
the most beautiful character in the book (which must have been very gratifying to Mr. George
Smith). He was the type she needed for her purpose. But he does not "come off", if only for
the reason that she is consciously preoccupied with him. Dr. John was far more of an obsession
to her than this little man, Paul Emanuel, who was good enough for Lucy Snowe. Pauline de Bassompierre
was to be finished and perfected to match the high finish and perfection of Dr. John. Yet neither
Pauline nor Dr. John "came off". Charlotte Brontë cared too much for them. But for Paul Emanuel
she did not care. He comes off in a triumph of the detached, divinely free "Creative Impulse".

Charlotte, with all her schemes, is delivered over to her genius from the moment when Lucy
settles in Villette. To Charlotte's inexperience Brussels was a perfect hotbed for the germs
of the real. That, I think, can be admitted without subscribing to the view that it was anything
more. Once in the Pensionnat, Lucy entered an atmosphere of the most intense reality. From
that point onward the book is literally inspired by the sense of atmosphere, that sense to
which experience brings the stuff to work on. All Charlotte's experience and her suffering
is there, changed, intensified, transmuted to an experience and a suffering which were not hers.

This matured sense of actuality is shown again in the drawing of the minor characters. There
is a certain vindictiveness about the portrait of Ginevra Fanshawe, a touch of that fierce,
intolerant temper that caused Blanche Ingram to be strangled by the hands of her creator. Ginevra
is not strangled. She lives splendidly; she flourishes in an opulence of detail.

Experience may have partly accounted for Ginevra. It could hardly have accounted for the little
de Hamel, and he is perfect as far as he goes.

It is because of this increasing mastery, this new power in handling unsympathetic types, because,
in short, of its all round excellence, that Villette must count as Charlotte Brontë's masterpiece.
It is marvellous that within such limits she should have attained such comparative catholicity
of vision. It is not the vast vision of Shirley, prophetic and inspired, and a little ineffectual.
It is the lucid, sober, unobstructed gaze of a more accomplished artist, the artist whose craving
for "reality" is satisfied; the artist who is gradually extending the limits of his art. When
Charlotte Brontë wrote Jane Eyre she could not appreciate Jane Austen; she wondered why George
Henry Lewes liked her so much. She objected to Jane Austen because there was no passion in
her, and therefore no poetry and no reality. When she wrote Shirley she had seen that passion
was not everything; there were other things, very high realities, that were not passion. By
the time she wrote Villette she saw, not only that there are other things, but that passion
is the rarest thing on earth. It does not enter into the life of ordinary people like Dr. John,
and Madame Beck, and Ginevra Fanshawe.

In accordance with this tendency to level up, her style in Villette attains a more even and
a more certain excellence. Her flights are few; so are her lapses. Her fearful tendency to
rhetoric is almost gone. Gone too are the purple patches; but there is everywhere delicate
colour under a vivid light. But there are countless passages which show the perfection to which
she could bring her old imaginative style. Take the scene where Lucy, under the influence of
opium, goes into Villette en fête.

"The drug wrought. I know not whether Madame had over-charged or under-charged the dose; its
result was not that she intended. Instead of stupor, came excitement. I became alive to new
thought--to reverie peculiar in colouring. A gathering call ran among the faculties, their
bugles sang, their trumpets rang an untimely summons....

"I took a route well known, and went up towards the palatial and royal Haute-Ville; thence
the music I heard certainly floated; it was hushed now, but it might rewaken. I went on: neither
band nor bell-music came to meet me; another sound replaced it, a sound like a strong tide,
a great flow, deepening as I proceeded. Light broke, movement gathered, chimes pealed--to what
was I coming? Entering on the level of a Grande Place, I found myself, with the suddenness
of magic, plunged amidst a gay, living, joyous crowd.

"Villette is one blaze, one broad illumination; the whole world seems abroad; moonlight and
heaven are banished: the town by her own flambeaux, beholds her own splendour--gay dresses,
grand equipage, fine horses and gallant riders, throng the bright streets. I see even scores
of masks. It is a strange scene, stranger than dreams."

This is only beaten by that lyric passage that ends Villette; that sonorous dirge that rings
high above all pathos, which is somehow a song of triumph, inspired by the whole power and
splendour and magnificence of storm and death.

"The sun passes the equinox; the days shorten, the leaves grow sere; but--he is coming.

"Frosts appear at night; November has sent his fogs in advance; the wind takes its autumn moan;
but--he is coming.

"The skies hang full and dark--a rack sails from the west; the clouds cast themselves into
strange forms--arches and broad radiations; there rise resplendent mornings--glorious, royal,
purple, as monarch in his state; the heavens are one flame; so wild are they, they rival battle
at its thickest--so bloody, they shame Victory in her pride. I know some signs of the sky,
I have noted them ever since childhood. God, watch that sail! Oh, guard it!

"The wind shifts to the west. Peace, peace, Banshee--'keening' at every window! It will rise--it
will swell--it shrieks out long: wander as I may through the house this night, I cannot lull
the blast. The advancing hours make it strong; by midnight all sleepless watchers hear and
fear a wild south-west storm.

"That storm roared frenzied for seven days. It did not cease till the Atlantic was strewn with
wrecks: it did not lull till the deeps had gorged their fill of substance. Not till the destroying
angel of tempest had achieved his perfect work, would he fold the wings whose waft was thunder--the
tremor of whose plumes was storm."

       *       *       *       *       *

After Villette, the Last Sketch, the Fragment of Emma; that fragment which Charlotte Brontë
read to her husband not long before her death. All he said was, "The critics will accuse you
of repetition."

The critics have fulfilled his cautious prophecy. The Fragment passed for one of those sad
things of which the least said the better. It was settled that Charlotte Brontë had written
herself out, that if she had lived she would have become more and more her own plagiarist.
There is a middle-aged lady in Emma, presumably conceived on the lines of Mrs. Fairfax and
Mrs. Pryor. There is a girls' school, which is only not Lowood because it is so obviously Roe
Head or Dewsbury Moor. There is a schoolmistress with sandy hair and thin lips and a cold blue
eye, recalling Madame Beck, though there the likeness ceases. And in that school, ill-treated
by that schoolmistress, there is a little ugly, suffering, deserted child.

All this looks very much like repetition. But it does not shake my private belief that Emma
is a fragment of what would have been as great a novel as Villette. There are indications.
There is Mr. Ellin, who proves that Charlotte Brontë could create a live man of the finer sort,
an unexploited masculine type with no earthly resemblance to Rochester or to Louis Moore or
M. Paul. He is an unfinished sketch rather than a portrait, but a sketch that would not too
shamefully have discredited Mr. Henry James. For there is a most modern fineness and subtlety
in Emma; and, for all its sketchy incompleteness, a peculiar certainty of touch, an infallible
sense of the significant action, the revealing gesture. With a splendid economy of means, scenes,
passages, phrases, apparently slight, are charged with the most intense psychological suggestion.
When Mr. Ellin, summoned on urgent business by Miss Wilcox, takes that preposterously long
and leisurely round to get to her, you know what is passing in the mind of Mr. Ellin as well
as if you had been told. In that brief scene between Mr. Ellin and the schoolmistress, you
know as well as if you had been told, that Miss Wilcox has lost Mr. Ellin because of her unkindness
to a child. When the child, Matilda Fitzgibbon, falls senseless, and Mr. Ellin gives his inarticulate
cry and lifts her from the floor, the enigmatic man has revealed his innermost nature.

Now a fragment that can suggest all this with the smallest possible expenditure of phrases,
is not a fragment that can be set aside. It is slight; but slightness that accomplishes so
much is a sign of progress rather than of falling-off. We shall never know what happened to
Matilda when Mr. Ellin took her from Miss Wilcox. We shall never know what happened to Mr.
Ellin; but I confess that I am dying to know, and that I find it hard to forgive Mr. Nicholls
for having killed them, so certain am I that they would have lived triumphantly if Charlotte
Brontë had not married him.

Some of us will be profoundly indifferent to this issue; for Charlotte Brontë has no following
in a certain school. She defies analysis. You cannot label her. What she has done is not "Realism",
neither is it "Romance". She displeases both by her ambiguity and by her lack of form. She
has no infallible dramatic instinct. Even in Villette she preserves some of her clumsiness,
her crudity, her improbability. The progress of "the Novel" in our day is towards a perfection
of form and a reality she never knew.

But "reality" is a large term; and, as for form, who cared about it in the fifties? As for
improbability--as M. Dimnet says--she is not more improbable than Balzac.

And all these things, the ambiguity, the formlessness and the rest, she was gradually correcting
as she advanced. It is impossible to exaggerate the importance and significance of her attainment
in Villette; there has been so much confused thinking in the consecrated judgment of that novel.
Villette owes its high place largely to its superior construction and technique; largely and
primarily to Charlotte Brontë's progress towards the light, towards the world, towards the
great undecorated reality. It is odd criticism that ignores the inevitable growth, the increasing
vision and grasp, the whole indomitable advance of a great writer, and credits "experience"
with the final masterpiece. As a result of this confusion Villette has been judged "final"
in another sense. Yes, final--this novel that shows every sign and token of long maturing,
long-enduring power. If Charlotte Brontë's critics had not hypnotized themselves by the perpetual
reiteration of that word "experience", it would have been impossible for them, with the evidence
of her work before them, to have believed that in Villette she had written herself out.

She was only just beginning.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Charlotte Brontë's Poems there is not much to say. They are better poems than Branwell's
or Anne's, but that does not make them very good. Still, they are interesting, and they are
important, because they are the bridge by which Charlotte Brontë passed into her own dominion.
She took Wordsworth with his Poems and Ballads for her guide, and he misled her and delayed
her on her way, and kept her a long time standing on her bridge. For in her novels, and her
novels only, Charlotte was a poet. In her poems she is a novelist, striving and struggling
for expression in a cramped form, an imperfect and improper medium. But most indubitably a
novelist. Nearly all her poems which are not artificial are impersonal. They deal with "situations",
with "psychological problems", that cry aloud for prose. There is the "Wife" who seems to have
lived a long, adventurous life with "William" through many poems; there is the deserted wife
and mother in "Mementos"; there is "Frances", the deserted maiden; there is "Gilbert" with
his guilty secret and his suicide, a triple domestic tragedy in the three acts of a three-part
ballad; there is the lady in "Preference", who prefers her husband to her passionate and profoundly
deluded lover; there is the woman in "Apostasy", wrecked in the conflict between love and priestcraft;
and there is little else beside. These poems are straws, showing the way of the wind that bloweth
where it listeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Too much has been written about Charlotte Brontë, and far too much has been read. You come
away from it with an enormous mass of printed stuff wrecked in your memory, letters, simply
hundreds of letters, legends and theories huddled together in a heap, with all values and proportions
lost; and your impression is of tumult and of suffering, and of a multitude of confused and
incongruous happenings; funerals and flirtations, or something very like flirtations, to the
sound of the passing bell and sexton's chisel; upheavals of soul, flights to and from Brussels,
interminable years of exile, and of lurid, tragic passion; years, interminable, monotonous
years of potato-peeling and all manner of household piety; scenes of debauchery, horrors of
opium and of drink; celebrity, cataclysmal celebrity, rushings up to town in storm and darkness,
dim coffee-houses in Paternoster Row, dinner-parties; deaths, funerals, melancholia; and still
celebrity; years, interminable, monotonous years of blazing celebrity, sounds of the literary
workshop overpowering the sexton's chisel; then marriage, sudden and swift; then death. And
in the midst of it all, one small and rather absurd and obscure figure, tossed to and fro,
said to be Charlotte Brontë.

What an existence!

This is the impression created by the bibliographical total. But sweep four-fifths of it away,
all the legends and half the letters, and sort and set out what remains, observing values and
proportions, and you get an outer life where no great and moving event ever came, saving only
death (Charlotte's marriage hardly counts beside it); an outer life of a strange and almost
oppressive simplicity and silence; and an inner life, tumultuous and profound in suffering,
a life to all appearances frustrate, where all nourishment of the emotions was reduced to the
barest allowance a woman's heart can depend on and yet live; and none the less a life that
out of that starvation diet raised enough of rich and vivid and superb emotion to decorate
a hundred women's lives; an inner life which her genius fed and was fed from, for which no
reality, no experience, could touch its own intensity of realization. And, genius apart, in
the region of actual and ostensible emotion, no one of us can measure the depth of her adoration
of duty, or the depth, the force and volume of her passion for her own people, and for the
earth trodden by their feet, the earth that covered them. Beside it every other feeling was
temporary and insignificant. In the light of it you see Charlotte Brontë's figure for ever
simple and beautiful and great; behind her for ever the black-grey setting of her village and
the purple of her moors. That greatness and beauty and simplicity is destroyed by any effort
to detach her from her background. She may seem susceptible to the alien influences of exile;
but it is as an exile that she suffers; and her most inspired moments are her moments of return,
when she wrote prose like this: "The moon reigns glorious, glad of the gale; as glad as if
she gave herself to his fierce caress with love. No Endymion will watch for his goddess to-night:
there are no flocks on the mountains."

       *       *       *       *       *

Around the figure of Emily Brontë there is none of that clamour and confusion. She stands apart
in an enduring silence, and guards for ever her secret and her mystery. By the mercy of heaven
the swarm of gossips and of theorists has passed her by. She has no legend or hardly any. So
completely has she been passed over that when Madame Duclaux came to write the Life of Emily
Brontë she found little to add to Mrs. Gaskell's meagre record beyond that story, which she
tells with an incomparable simplicity and reticence, of Emily in her mortal illness, sitting
by the hearth, combing her long hair till the comb slips from her fingers.

That is worth all the reams, the terrible reams that have been written about Charlotte.

There can be no doubt that Emily Brontë found her shelter behind Charlotte's fame; but she
was protected most of all by the unapproachable, the unique and baffling quality of her temperament
and of her genius. Her own people seem to have felt it; Charlotte herself in that preface to
Wuthering Heights, which stands as her last vindication and eulogy of her dead sister, even
Charlotte betrays a curious reservation and reluctance. You feel that Emily's genius inspired
her with a kind of sacred terror.

Charlotte destroyed all records of her sister except her poems. Between six and seven hundred
of her own letters have been published; there are two of Emily's. They tell little or nothing.
And there was that diary she kept for Anne, where she notes with extreme brevity the things
that are happening in her family. There never was a diary wherein the soul of the diarist was
so well concealed.

And yet, because of this silence, this absence of legend and conjecture, we see Emily Brontë
more clearly than we can ever hope to see Charlotte now. Though hardly anything is known of
her, what is known is authentic; it comes straight from those who knew and loved her: from
Charlotte, from Ellen Nussey, from the servants at the Parsonage. Even of her outward and visible
presence we have a clearer image. The lines are fewer, but they are more vivid. You see her
tall and slender, in her rough clothes, tramping the moors with the form and the step of a
virile adolescent. Shirley, the "bête fauve", is Emily civilized. You see her head carried
high and crowned with its long, dark hair, coiled simply, caught up with a comb. You see her
face, honey-pale, her slightly high, slightly aquiline nose; her beautiful eyes, dark-grey,
luminous; the "kind, kindling, liquid eyes" that Ellen Nussey saw; and their look, one moment
alert, intent, and the next, inaccessibly remote.

I have seen such kind and kindling eyes in the face of a visionary, born with a profound, incurable
indifference to the material event; for whom the Real is the incredible, unapparent harmony
that flows above, beneath, and within the gross flux of appearances. To him it is the sole
thing real. That kind and kindling look I know to be simply a light reflected from the surface
of the dream. It is anything but cold; it has indeed a certain tender flame; but you would
be profoundly mistaken if you argued from it more than the faintest polite interest in you
and your affairs. The kindling of Emily Brontë's eyes I take to have had at times something
of the same unearthly quality. Strangers received from her an impression as of a creature utterly
removed from them; a remoteness scarcely human, hard to reconcile with her known tenderness
for every living thing. She seems to have had a passionate repugnance to alien and external
contacts, and to have felt no more than an almost reluctant liking for the lovable and charming
Ellen Nussey. Indeed, she regarded Charlotte's friend with the large and virile tolerance that
refuses to be charmed.

And yet in the depths of her virginal nature there was something fiercely tender and maternal.
There can be no doubt that she cared for Charlotte, who called her "Mine own bonnie love";
but she would seem to have cared far more for Anne who was young and helpless, and for Branwell
who was helpless and most weak.

Thus there is absolutely nothing known of Emily that destroys or disturbs the image that Haworth
holds of her; nothing that detaches her for a moment from her own people, and from her own
place. Her days of exile count not at all in her thirty years of home. No separation ever broke,
for one hour that counted, the bonds that bound her to her moors, or frustrated the divine
passion of her communion with their earth and sky. Better still, no tale of passion such as
they tell of Charlotte was ever told of Emily.

It may be told yet, for no secret thing belonging to this disastrous family is sacred. There
may be somewhere some awful worshipper of Emily Brontë, impatient of her silence and unsatisfied
with her strange, her virgin and inaccessible beauty, who will some day make up a story of
some love-affair, some passion kindred to Catherine Earnshaw's passion for Heathcliff, of which
her moors have kept the secret; and he will tell his tale. But we shall at least know that
he had made it up. And even so, it will have been better for that man if he had never been
born. He will have done his best to destroy or to deface the loveliness of a figure unique
in literature. And he will have ignored the one perfect, the one essentially true picture of
Emily Brontë, which is to be found in Maurice Maeterlinck's Wisdom and Destiny.

To M. Maeterlinck she is the supreme instance of the self-sufficing soul, independent and regardless
of the material event. She shows the emptiness, the impotence, the insignificance of all that
we call "experience," beside the spirit that endures. "Not a single event ever paused as it
passed by her threshold; yet did every event she could claim take place in her heart, with
incomparable force and beauty, with matchless precision and detail. We say that nothing ever
happened; but did not all things really happen to her much more directly and tangibly than
with most of us, seeing that everything that took place about her, everything that she saw
or heard was transformed within her into thoughts and feelings, into indulgent love, admiration,
adoration of life...?

"Of her happiness none can doubt. Not in the soul of the best of all those whose happiness
has lasted longest, been the most active, diversified, perfect, could more imperishable harvest
be found, than in the soul Emily Brontë lays bare. If to her there came nothing of all that
passes in love, sorrow, passion or anguish, still did she possess all that abides when emotion
has faded away."[A]

[Footnote A: Wisdom and Destiny, translated by Alfred Sutro.]

What was true of Charlotte, that her inner life was luminous with intense realization, was
a hundred times more true of Emily. It was so true that beside it nothing else that can be
said is altogether true. It is not necessary for a man to be convinced of the illusory nature
of time and of material happenings in order to appreciate Charlotte's genius; but his comprehension
of Emily's will be adequate or otherwise, according to the passion and sincerity with which
he embraces that idea. And he must have, further, a sense of the reality behind the illusion.
It is through her undying sense of it that Emily Brontë is great. She had none of the proud
appearances of the metaphysical mind; she did not, so far as we know, devour, like George Eliot,
whole systems of philosophy in her early youth. Her passionate pantheism was not derived; it
was established in her own soul. She was a mystic, not by religious vocation, but by temperament
and by ultimate vision. She offers the apparent anomaly of extreme detachment and of an unconquerable
love of life.

