In spite of these conditions in the South it might appear strange that not until fifty years
after the privilege was granted negroes to go where they pleased did they begin to make a sudden
rush for the northern States. Stranger still does it seem that, despite the fairly general
agreement among southern negroes that the North affords greater personal liberty, is less prejudiced
to individuals because of the color of their skins, grants to negroes something nearer to open
handed justice, participation in the government, wider privileges and freer associations, there
should be in 1910 scarcely more than one-tenth of the negro population where these reputed
advantages are. The North has been looked upon as the "Promised Land," the "Ark of Safety,"
the "House of Refuge" for all these years. A common reason recently advanced by the majority
of southern negroes for the abandonment of their homes was the desire to escape from the oppressive
social system of their section. Why have they not escaped before? The answer lies in the very
hard fact that, though the North afforded larger privileges, it would not support negroes.
It was the operation of an inexorable economic law, confused with a multitude of social factors,
that pushed them back to the soil of the South despite their manifest desire to leave it.

None of the causes was more effective than that of the opportunity to earn a better living.
Wages offered in the North were double and treble those received in the South. Women who received
$2.50 a week in domestic service could earn from $2.10 to $2.50 a day and men receiving $1.10
and $1.25 a day could earn from $2.50 to $3.75 a day in the various industries in the North.[21]
An intensive study of the migration to Pittsburgh, made by Mr. Abraham Epstein, gives an idea
of the difference in wages paid in the North and the South. His findings may be quoted: "The
great mass of workers get higher wages here than in the places from which they come. Fifty-six
per cent received less than two dollars a day in the South, while only five per cent received
such wages in Pittsburgh." Sixty-two per cent received between $2 and $3 per day in Pittsburgh
as compared with 25 per cent in the South, and 28 per cent received between $3 and $3.60 in
this city as compared with four per cent in the South.

The inability to educate their children properly because of the inadequacy of school facilities
was another cause which has been universally given for leaving the South.[22] The basis for
this frequently voiced complaint is well set forth in the study of Negro Education by Dr. Thomas
Jesse Jones.[23]

    The inadequacy of the elementary school system for colored
    children is indicated both by the comparisons of public
    appropriations already given and by the fact that the
    attendance in both public and private schools is only 58.1 per
    cent of the children six to fourteen years of age. The average
    length of the public school term is less than five months in
    practically all of the southern States. Most of the school
    buildings, especially those in the rural districts, are in
    wretched condition. There is little supervision and little
    effort to improve the schools or adapt their efforts to the
    needs of the community. The reports of the State Departments
    of Georgia and Alabama indicate that 70 per cent of the
    colored teachers have third grade or temporary certificates,
    representing a preparation less than that usually given in
    the first eight elementary grades. Investigations made by
    supervisors of colored schools in other States indicate that
    the percentage of poorly prepared colored teachers is almost
    as high in the other southern States.

    The supervisor of white elementary rural schools in one of the
    States recently wrote concerning negro schools: "I never
    visit one of these (negro) schools without feeling that we are
    wasting a large part of this money and are neglecting a great
    opportunity. The negro schoolhouses are miserable beyond all
    description. They are usually without comfort, equipment,
    proper lighting or sanitation. Nearly all of the negroes of
    school age in the district are crowded into these miserable
    structures during the short term which the school runs. Most
    of the teachers are absolutely untrained and have been given
    certificates by the county board, not because they have passed
    the examination, but because it is necessary to have some kind
    of negro teacher. Among the negro rural schools which I have
    visited, I have found only one in which the highest class knew
    the multiplication table."

The treatment which the negroes received at the hands of the courts and the guardians of the
peace constituted another cause of the migration. Negroes largely distrust the courts and have
to depend on the influence of their aristocratic white friends. When a white man assaults a
negro he is not punished. When a white man kills a negro he is usually freed without extended
legal proceedings, but the rule as laid down by the southern judge is usually that when a negro
kills a white man, whether or not in self-defense, the negro must die. Negro witnesses count
for nothing except when testifying against members of their own race. The testimony of a white
man is conclusive in every instance. In no State of the South can a negro woman get a verdict
for seduction, nor in most cases enter a suit against a white man; nor, where a white man is
concerned, is the law of consent made to apply to a negro girl.

It will be said, however, that such drastic action is not general in the South; but throughout
the Black Belt the negroes suffer from arrests and impositions for petty offenses which make
their lives sometimes miserable. The large number of negroes owning automobiles is a source
of many conflicts. Many collisions, possibly avoidable, have resulted in wresting from the
negroes concerned excessive damages which go to increase the returns of the courts. For example,
the chauffeur of one of the most influential negroes in Mississippi collided with a white man's
car. Although there was sufficient evidence to exonerate the chauffeur concerned, the owner
of the vehicle was forced to pay damages and sell his car.[24]

In the Birmingham district of Alabama a striking discrimination is made in the arrests for
failure to pay the street tax. Mr. Henry L. Badham, President of the Bessemer Coal, Iron and
Land Company, said in commenting on the causes of the migration:

    I do not blame the negroes for going away from Birmingham. The
    treatment that these unfortunate negroes are receiving from
    the police is enough to make them desire to depart. The
    newspapers have printed articles about the departure of the
    laborers from Birmingham. On one page there is a story to the
    effect that something should be done to prevent the exodus of
    the negroes to other cities. And then on the same page there
    appears a little paragraph stating that negroes were arrested
    for failure to pay $2.50 street tax. The injustice of
    arresting these negroes for the inability to have $2.50 ready
    to turn over into the coffers of the city is obvious. While
    they have been taken into custody, despite their protests that
    they merely have not a sufficient amount of money with which
    to meet the demand, you do not see that white men are arrested
    for the failure to pay the tax. There is no gainsaying the
    fact that there are thousands of men walking the streets who
    have not paid a similar sum into the treasury of the city. The
    negroes ought to get a square deal. When he is without funds,
    you can not blame him for that. The city police ought to be
    more reliable, or at least show no favoritism.[25]

The fee system in the courts of the South is one of the most effective causes of the migration.
The employers of labor fought this system for eight years and finally got it abolished in Jefferson
county, Alabama. Under this system the sheriff received a fee for feeding all prisoners. The
greater the number of prisoners, the greater would be the income for the sheriff's office.
As a result, it became customary in Jefferson county, Alabama, to arrest negroes in large numbers.
Deputy sheriffs would go out to mining camps where there were large numbers of laborers and
bring back fifty or more negroes at a time. This condition became unbearable both to the employer
and to the employe. Calling attention to the evil of this fee system, Dr. W.H. Oates, State
Prison Inspector, said in his annual report for 1914:[26]

    The vile, pernicious, pervading fee system beggars description
    and my vocabulary is inadequate to describe its deleterious
    and baneful effects. It increases in the management of our
    jails greed for the almighty dollar. Prisoners are arrested
    because of the dollar and, shame to say, are frequently kept
    in captivity for months in steel cages for no other reason
    than the almighty dollar.

During the fiscal year ending September 30, 1917, Jefferson county had 6,000 prisoners as follows:

  In jail at the beginning of the year        328
  Incarcerated during the year:
            White men                  1,289
            Negro men                  3,636
            White women                  118
            Negro women                  969
                                       -----
                 Total                 6,340

The fee bill, according to the sheriff's annual report of this department was $37,688.90. As
the law provided that for each prisoner the sheriff shall receive 30 cents a day for feeding,
and as a matter of fact the sheriff fed them for 10 cents a day, it is clear that he made a
net profit of $25,125.94 during one fiscal year or at the same rate for his term of four years,
$100,503.76.[27]

Another frequent complaint was directed against the accommodations for travel. It generally
happens that the cars are crowded because the amount of space allotted is insufficient, and
negroes as a class are denied accommodation in sleeping and dining cars. Usually there is but
one toilet for both sexes and the waiting rooms at stations are cut off, unclean and insanitary.
Then there are numerous petty offenses, which in themselves appear trifling, but which are
spoken of as being on the whole considerably annoying. White men are permitted to come into
the negroes' part of the coach and entertain the conductor, newsboy and flagman, all of whom
usually make their headquarters there. The drunkards, the insane and other undesirables are
forced into this comparment among negro women who have to listen to oaths and vulgar utterances.
In stopping at some points, the trains halt the negro car in muddy and abominably disagreeable
places; the rudeness and incivility of the public servants are ever apparent, and at the stations
the negroes must wait at a separate window until every white passenger has purchased a ticket
before he is waited on, although he may be delayed long enough to miss the train.

Both whites and negroes in mentioning the reasons for the movement generally give lynching
as one of the most important causes and state that the fear of the mob has greatly accelerated
the exodus. Negroes in Florida gave as their reason for going north the horrible lynchings
in Tennessee. The white press in Georgia maintained that lynchings were driving the negroes
in large numbers from that State. A careful study of the movement, however, shows that bad
treatment by representatives of the law caused almost as many negroes to leave the South as
lynchings, for, whereas lynchings were more or less sporadic, persecutions and mistreatment
by representatives of the law were trials which all negroes had continually to bear and from
which they were anxious to escape.[28]

Many of these causes then have their origin on the one hand in the attitude which the South
assumes toward the negro as expressed in law and public opinion, and on the other hand in the
feeling of the negro toward the South because of the treatment given him. A negro educator
of Mississippi sought to explain the situation, saying:

    Many white men of high intellectual ability and keen
    discernment have mistaken the negroes' silence for
    contentment, his facial expression for satisfaction at
    prevailing conditions, and his songs and jovial air for
    happiness.[29] But this is not always so. These are his
    methods of bearing trouble and keeping his soul sweet under
    seeming wrongs. In the absence of a spokesman or means of
    communication with the whites over imagined grievances, he has
    brightened his countenance, smiled and sung to ease his mind.
    In the midst of it all he is unable to harmonize with the
    practices of daily life the teachings of the Bible which the
    white Christian placed in his hands. He finds it difficult to
    harmonize the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man,
    and his faith is put to the test in the Providence which
    enslaved his ancestors, corrupted his blood and placed upon
    him stigmas more damaging than to be a leper or convict by
    making his color a badge of infamy and his preordained social
    position at the bottom of human society. So firmly has his
    status been fixed by this Providence that neither moral
    worth, fidelity to trust, love of home, loyalty to country, or
    faith in God can raise him to human recognition.

