The number of motor-cars at the disposal of the Air Ministry now stands at the apparently irreducible
minimum of forty-two. Quite a number of the officials use train or bus, like ordinary folk;
some have even been seen to walk; and there has been such a slump in "joy-riding" that when
asked if ladies were now carried in the official chariots General SEELY was able to assure
the House that that never happens; though I think he added under his breath--"well, hardly ever."

There was barely a quorum when Colonel LESLIE WILSON rose to introduce the estimates of the
Shipping Controller. This was a pity, for he had a good story to tell of the mercantile marine,
and told it very well. He was less successful on the subject of the "national shipyards," which
have cost four millions of money and in two years have not succeeded in turning out a single
completed ship. With the wisdom that comes after the event Sir CHARLES HENRY fulminated ferociously
against the "superman" who had imposed this "disastrous scheme" upon the country.

This brought up the superman himself, Sir ERIC GEDDES, who in the most vigorous speech he has
yet delivered in the House defended the scheme as being absolutely essential at the time it
was initiated. It was a war-time expedient, which changing circumstances had rendered unnecessary;
but if the War and the U-boat campaign had gone on it might have been the salvation of the
country. After all you can't expect to have shipyards without making a few slips.

Tuesday, May 20th.--The advance of woman continues. Very soon she will have her foot upon the
first rung of the judicial ladder, and be able to write J.P. after her name, for the LORD CHANCELLOR,
pointing out that in this matter the Government were bound to honour the pledges of the PRIME
MINISTER, gracefully swallowed Lord BEAUCHAMP'S Bill. He took occasion, however, to warn the
prospective justicesses (if that is the right term) that, as the Commissions of the Peace were
already fully manned, it might be some time before any large number of ladies could be added
to the roll of those who, in the words of the Prayer-book, "indifferently administer justice."

Quite unintentionally, of course, Mr. BOTTOMLEY did the Government a real service in the Commons.
Every day since his return from Paris Mr. BONAR LAW has been pestered with inquiries as to
when, if ever, the House was to be allowed to discuss the Peace terms, and has evaded a direct
answer with more or less ingenuity. This afternoon Mr. BOTTOMLEY, after hearing that the LEADER
OF THE HOUSE had "nothing to add" to his previous replies, asked if he was right in supposing
that, when the Treaty came up for ratification, the House must take it or leave it, and would
have no power to amend it in any respect. Mr. LAW joyfully jumped at the chance of ending the
daily catechism once for all. "That," he said, "exactly represents the position, and I do not
see in what other way any Treaty could ever be arranged."

In anticipation of the debate on the Finance Bill Mr. SYDNEY ARNOLD sought an admission from
the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER that the income-tax on small incomes was hardly worth retaining,
owing to the cost of collection. Not at all, said Mr. CHAMBERLAIN. It costs six hundred thousand
pounds and brings in eight million. Of course, he added, it costs more proportionately to collect
small amounts than large. If the whole of the income-tax could be paid by one individual the
cost of collection would be nil. One imagined the CHANCELLOR on the eve of the Budget wishing,
à la NERO, that the whole of the British people had but one purse, into which he could dip
as deeply and as often as he pleased.

The debate on the Finance Bill was largely devoted to the proposed "levy on capital," which
a section of the "Wee Frees," who already display fissiparous tendencies, have borrowed from
the Labourites. After their amendment was framed, however, Mr. ASQUITH spoke at Newcastle,
and ostentatiously refused to say a word about the new nostrum. Sir DONALD MACLEAN, anxious
to avoid displeasing either his old leader or his new supporters, contented himself with the
suggestion that a Commission should be set up to consider the subject.

The CHANCELLOR had little difficulty in disposing of the amendment. He might, indeed, have
contented himself with quoting the War Bond advertisements, which daily inform us that the
patriotic investor "will receive the whole of his money back with a substantial premium."

The Preference proposals which Mr. ACLAND had described as bred "by Filial Piety out of the
Board of Trade" received the unexpected aid of Sir ALFRED MOND, who disposed of his Cobdenite
prejudices as easily as the conjurer swallows his gloves, and unblushingly asserted that the
tiny Preference now proposed, far from being the advance-guard of Protection, was in reality
a very strong movement towards Free Trade. Comforted by this authoritative declaration Coalition
Liberals helped the Government to defeat the amendment by 317 to 72.

Wednesday, May 21st.--The Peers being as usual rather short of work at this period of the Session,
the LORD CHANCELLOR introduced a Bill "to enable the Official Solicitor for the time being
to exercise powers and duties conferred on the person holding the office of Official Solicitor."

The rumours that have lately appeared in the papers, to the effect that the FIRST COMMISSIONER
OF WORKS was contemplating revolutionary alterations at Hampton Court--in particular that he
was going to transform the famous pond-garden into something quite different: a MOND-garden,
in fact--are, it seems, grossly exaggerated. All that he has done is to appoint a Committee
of experts to advise him what, if any, changes are desirable.

The resumed debate on the Finance Bill was enlivened by some personal details. By way of showing
that even without a levy on capital the rich man bears his share of the burdens of the State,
Sir EDWARD CARSON remarked that, when he receives a retainer, he immediately allows for the
super-tax and enters it in his fee-book at only half the amount. He had had one that very morning.
"Say it was five pounds"--and the House laughed loudly at such an absurd supposition.

Then we had Lord HUGH CECIL pointing his argument that the importance of the proposed Preference
to the Dominions was political rather than economical by the remark that if he was going to
be married--which he fervently hoped would not happen to him--he would expect his mythical
bride to value his engagement-ring less for its pecuniary than its sentimental value.

A capital speech by Mr. STANLEY BALDWIN, one of the few men in the House who talks finance
as if he really understood it, wound up the debate, and procured the Finance Bill a second
reading nem. con.

Thursday, May 22nd.--The Ministry of Health Bill came up for third reading in the Lords. An
eleventh-hour attempt by the Government to provide the new Minister with an additional Under-Secretary
was heavily defeated, Lord DOWNHAM being appropriately enough one of the Tellers for the Opposition.

The Commons heard some good news. Mr. KENDALL'S pathetic story of an angling-party which, after
walking five miles along a dusty road to its favourite hostelry, found it adorned with the
now too frequent notice, "Closed--No Beer," brought a most sympathetic reply from Mr. GEORGE
ROBERTS, who boldly confessed, "I am a believer in good beer myself," and later on announced
that the Government had decided to increase the output from twenty million to twenty-six million
standard barrels.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT'S IN A NAME?

The original answer to the question at the head of these insignificant remarks was (correct
me if I am wrong) nothing. "A rose," said Juliet, "by any other name would smell as sweet."
But of course she was wrong. If a rose were handed to a visitor in the garden, with the words,
"Do see how wonderful this onion is!" such a prejudice would be set up as fatally to impair
its fragrance. There is, in fact, much in a name; and therefore the attempt of a correspondent
of The Daily Express to find a generic nomenclature for domestic servants should be given very
serious attention; the purpose being to meet "the objection felt by so many women servants
to being either called by Christian or surname."

As a means of placating this very sensitive class the correspondent writes:--

"One nearly always calls a cook by the name of her calling. I therefore suggest that a name
be adopted beginning with the first letter of the class. For example:--

  Lady's-maid        Louise.
  Parlourmaid        Palmer.
  Housemaid          Hannah.
  General            Gertrude.
  Scullerymaid       Sarah."

Here we have materials for a sweeping innovation which might, if it spread, not only simplify
life but reinforce the language. For why confine such terms to domestic servants? If all parlourmaids
are to be called "Palmer," why not, for example, call all editors "Eddy" (very good Eddy, or
very bad Eddy, according to taste)? And all London County Councillors, "Elsie"?

But let us look a little narrowly at the specimens given. "Palmer" for "parlourmaid" is good;
but "Louise" does not reproduce the sound values of "lady's-maid." Some such word as "Lais"
would be better, or why not "Lady-bird," which combines the desired similarity with the new
euphemism "home-bird," invented to help transform domestic service to a privilege and pleasure?
"Hannah" for "housemaid" is also wrong, although for "handmaid" it would be good. On the analogy
of "Palmer," why not call all housemaids "How"? or even "House"?

If American Colonels can be called HOUSE, why not English housemaids? For generals "Jenny"
would be better than "Gertrude"; and for scullery-maids "Scully." "Scully" is quite a good
name; there is a distinguished psychologist named SULLY, and there was an M.P. for Pontefract
named GULLY. No scullery-maid need be offended.

It is odd how we call some persons by their profession or calling, and others not. We say "Doctor,"
but we do not address our gum-architect as "Dentist." We say "Carpenter," but we do not address
a plumber as "Plumber." (Incidentally, all plumbers might be called Warner). We say "Gardener"
and "Coachman," but we do not address an advocate as "Barrister." If we had a definite rule
everything would be simple, but as we have not it is necessary to find several more names.
I am not at all satisfied with The Daily Express's test. For example, what would a second parlour-maid
be called? If three were kept they might be called Palm, Palmer and Palmist. A long vista of
difficulties opens.

       *       *       *       *       *

RUS IN URBE.

    ["Encouraged by the summer weather yesterday, a titled lady
    took her tea with some friends on the footway at Belsize
    Park Gardens, Hampstead. Unsympathetic passers-by,
    however, complained of the obstruction ... and, following
    representation to the police by the public, the al-fresco
    tea-party was broken up."--Daily News.]

In spite of the innate conservatism of the police we are pleased to think that the seeds of
a happy unconventionality, sown by this courageous lady of title, have already borne fruit.

On Thursday night, about ten o'clock, the attention of passers-by was drawn to a four-post
bed, which was being trundled along the Strand by eight stalwart footmen. On it reposed the
Duke of Sleepyacres. It appears that his Grace, on return from active service, found that the
confined air of an ordinary bed-room engendered insomnia. He therefore conceived the idea of
sleeping in the open-air and caused his bed to be placed in the centre of the Strand, opposite
the entrance to the Savoy Hotel. The presence of the sleeping nobleman might have been unnoticed,
had not Mr. SMILLIE chanced to pass the spot on his way from dining after a session of the
Coal Commission. His eye was immediately caught by the ducal crest on the panels of the bed.
Suspicious that this was a dastardly attempt on the part of a member of the landed classes
to obtain sleeping-rights in a public thoroughfare, Mr. SMILLIE lodged a complaint with the
police, and the Duke was removed to Bow Street.

Some mild interest has been displayed by the public in a camp which has been established by
three subalterns in the roadway at the corner of Charing Cross and Northumberland Avenue. It
is a small and quite inconspicuous affair, consisting merely of an army pattern bell-tent,
a camp fire and a few deck chairs. Our representative recently visited the occupants to ascertain
the reason for their presence. After hastily declining an offer of a glass of E.F.C. port,
smuggled over from France, he inquired with polite interest whether his hosts contemplated
a lengthy stay. They replied that they did. They were waiting for their demobilisation gratuities.
The locality, they added, was a quiet one, where advancing old age could be met in comfortable
meditation. Also the offices of Messrs. Cox, Box & Co., the Regimental Agents, were in convenient
proximity, and the latest news of the gratuities could be obtained with a minimum of trouble.
Up to the present the police have not interfered with them, apparently taking them for workmen
employed in repairing the roadway.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"KISSING TIME."

For an infrequent worshipper at the shrine of Musical Comedy the atmosphere of a first night
at a new, or renascent, theatre is perhaps rather too heady. There are so many potent vintages
set on the board; so many connoisseurs who will offer to tell you beforehand of the merits
of their favourite brands.

I confess, to my shame, that when an actor with whose gifts I am unfamiliar is received on
his entrance with a storm of applause, I am not prejudiced, as I ought to be, in his favour.
On the contrary I follow his performance the more judicially, and if I cannot find that it
corresponds to his apparent reputation I am apt (wrongly again) to conclude that the fault
lies with him and not with myself.

But in the case of Kissing Time, after a rather dull First Act, during which I kept telling
myself that I was not suffering from senile decay, I had to admit that the gods were in a great
measure justified of their elect. For one thing the authors, taking a bold and original line
(from the French), had produced a coherent plot; and both dialogue and lyrics were above what
I understand to be the average in this kind. One expects, of course, a little Cockney licence--"pyjamas"
rhymed with "Palmer's," and so on--and a certain amount of popular banality, as in the song,
"Some Day" (rapturously approved); but there were excellent verses on the text, "A woman has
no mercy on a man," and, I doubt not, much other good stuff which I missed because Mr. IVAN
CARYLL, who conducted (and was probably thinking more of his own pleasant music than somebody
else's words), did not make enough allowance for my slowness in the up-take of patter.

Mr. LESLIE HENSON was funny, and should be funnier still when the book has been cut down by
about an hour and space allowed him for private developments. Miss PHYLLIS DARE was graceful
and confident. One easily understood her popularity; but Miss YVONNE ARNAUD, who was a little
slow for the general pace, must, I think, be more of an acquired taste.

Mr. TOM WALLS (very svelte in his French uniform) did sound work, and so did Mr. GEORGE BARRETT,
a humourist by gift of nature. Mr. GEORGE GROSSMITH, who with Mr. LAURILLARD has made out of
the old Middlesex a most attractive and spacious "Winter Garden," brought with him the traditions
of the Gaiety, and had a warm personal welcome. I could bear him to be funnier than he was;
but as I'm sure that he's clever enough to be anything he likes I can only assume that he wasn't
really trying.

I join everybody in wishing him good cheer in this "garden" of his, where, if the auguries
fulfil themselves, he is not likely, even in the dog-days, to have to endure "the winter of
our discontent."

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAND OF MY DREAMS

  I know a spot where balmy air and still
    Enfolds the placid dweller hour by hour
    As, all unhampered in his tranquil bower,
  He stretches idle limbs at ease until
  The blessed peace about him calms his will
    And hidden thoughts, expanding into flower,
    Amaze him with their beauty, and the sour
  Sharp voice of Care, that sounds far off and shrill,
    Moves him to gentle mirth that men can be
  So strangely foolish as to heed her call,
    Regardless of their true felicity....
  Avoid the place, ye bores. Aroint ye all!
  Afflict not one to this dear haven fled,
  My private earthly paradise--my BED.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Quarrymen (experienced) Wanted, wages 1s. 5-1/2d. per
    hour; constant employment for good men. No bankers need
    apply."--Country Paper.

Why this marked discrimination against bankers? We have known several who were most respectable.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RENAISSANCE.

The unexampled rapidity with which, owing to the opportunities of war-time, men in all walks
of life have reached the top of the tree in early manhood is leading on to strange but inevitable
results. Unable to rise any higher they are already contemplating the heroic course of justifying
their eminence by starting afresh at the bottom of the ladder.

The crucial and classical example is, of course, furnished by our Boy Chancellor. It is an
open secret that, with that sagacious foresight which has always characterised him, Lord BIRKENHEAD
recognises the impermanency of his exalted position and is resolved when and if he leaves the
Woolsack to resume practice as a Junior. It is further rumoured that some of our judges intend
to follow his august example. The atmosphere of the Bench is not always exhilarating, and the
salary is fixed. But a self-effacing altruism doubtless also enters into their motives.

The impending exodus from Whitehall is another factor in the situation. Scores of demobilised
"Ministerial angels" will soon be released, and are meditating fresh outlets for their benevolent
energies. Many of them are young and some beautiful. The romance of commerce and of the stage
will prove a potent lure. Never has the demand for an elegant deportment and urbane manners
in our great shops and stores been more clamant; never has the standard been higher. Our ex-officials
may have to stoop, but it will be to conquer. We can confidently look forward to the day when
no shop will be without its DEMOSTHENES, ALCIBIADES or its CICERO. Opportunities for employment
on the stage are likely to be multiplied by the alleged intention of several actor-managers
to enter Parliament, while others, nobly anxious to satisfy the claims of youth, have expressed
their resolve only to appear henceforth in such subsidiary parts as dead bodies and outside shouts.

