"Oh great and mighty Khan, this tailor knows not whereof he talks. I need both of my eyes;
for while it is true that I squint one eye along one side of the barrel of the gun, to see
if it is straight, I must use the other eye for the other side. If, therefore, you put out
one of my eyes you will take away from me the means of livelihood. It happens, however, that
there lives not far from me a flute-player. Now I have noticed that whenever he plays the flute
he closes both of his eyes. Take out one of his eyes, oh Khan, and let the law be satisfied."

Accordingly, the Khan sent for the flute-player, and after reciting to him the complaint of
the thief, and the words of the gunsmith, he ordered him to play upon his flute. This the flute-player
did, and though he endeavored to control himself, he did not succeed, but, as the result of
long habit, closed both of his eyes. When the Khan saw this, he ordered that one of the flute-player's
eyes be put out, which being done, the Khan spoke as follows:

"Oh flute-player, I saw that when playing upon your flute you closed both of your eyes. It
was thus clear to me that neither was necessary for your livelihood, and I had intended to
have them both put out, but I have decided to put out only one in order that you may tell among
men how merciful are the Khans."

KING KARA-KUSH OF BITHYNIA

A King of Bithynia, named Kara-kush, who was blind of an eye, was considered in his day a reasonable,
just, and feeling man. He administered justice upon the basis of the law, 'An eye for an eye,
a tooth for a tooth,' and enlarged or modified it as circumstances demanded.

It happened that a weaver by accident put out the eye of a man. He was brought before the King
or Cadi, for in those days the Kings acted as Cadis, who promptly condemned him, in accordance
with the law, to the loss of an eye. The weaver pleaded touchingly, saying:

"Oh Cadi! I have a wife and a large family, and I support them by throwing the shuttle from
the right to the left, and again from the left to the right; first using the one eye and then
the other. If you remove one of my eyes, I will not be able to weave, and my wife and children
will suffer the pangs of hunger. Why not, in the place of my eye, remove that of the hunter
who uses but one eye in exercising his profession, and to whom two eyes are superfluous?"

The Cadi was impressed, acknowledged the justice of the weaver's remarks, and the hunter was
immediately sent for. The hunter being brought, the Cadi was greatly rejoiced to notice that
the hunter's eyes were exactly the same color as his own. He asked the hunter how he earned
his living, and receiving his answer that he was a hunter, the Cadi asked him how he shot.
The hunter in reply demonstrated the manner by putting up his arms, his head to a side, and
closing one eye. The Cadi said the weaver was right, and immediately sent for the surgeon to
have the eye removed. Further, the Cadi bethought him that he might profit by this and have
the hunter's eye placed in his own socket. The surgeon set to work and prepared the cavity
to receive the hunter's eye. This done with a practised hand, the surgeon removed the hunter's
eye and was about to place it in the prepared socket, when it accidentally slipped from his
fingers to the ground, and was snatched up by a cat. The surgeon was terrified and madly ran
after the cat; but alas! the cat had eaten the eye. What was he to do? On the inspiration of
the moment he snatched out the eye of the cat, and placing it in the Cadi's head, bound it up.

Some time after the surgeon asked the Cadi how he saw.

"Oh," replied the Cadi, "with my old eye I see as usual, but strange to say, the new eye you
placed in my head is continually searching and watching for rat holes."

THE PRAYER RUG AND THE DISHONEST STEWARD

