So much in the way of alms for Momus. Fortunately a much fuller collection of points for admiration
offers itself. It has been admitted that the historical element[278] is perhaps, in the circumstances
and for the story, a trifle irrelevant and even "in the way." But its presence at all is the
important point. Some, at any rate, of the details--the relations of that Henri II., with whom,
it seems, we may not connect the very queer, very rare, but not very beautiful faïence once
called "Henri Deux" ware,[279] with his wife and his mistress; his accidental death at the
hands of Montgomery; the history of Henry VIII.'s matrimonial career, and the courtship of
his daughter by a French prince (if not this French prince)--are historical enough to present
a sharp contrast with the cloudy pseudo-classical canvas of the Scudéry romances, or the mere
fable-land of others. Any critical Brown ought to have discovered "great capabilities" in it;
and though it was not for more than another century that the true historical novel got itself
born, this was almost the nearest experiment to it. But the other side--the purely sentimental--let
us not say psychological--side, is of far more consequence; for here we have not merely aspiration
or chance-medley, we have attainment.

There is a not wholly discreditable prejudice against abridgments, especially of novels, and
more especially against what are called condensations. But one may think that the simple knife,
without any artful or artless aid of interpolated summaries, could carve out of La Princesse
de Clèves, as it stands, a much shorter but fully intelligible presentation of its passionate,
pitiful subject. A slight want of individual character may still be desiderated; it is hardly
till Manon Lescaut that we get that, but it was not to be expected. Scarcely more to be expected,
but present and in no small force, is that truth to life; that "knowledge of the human heart"
which had been hitherto attempted by--we may almost say permitted to--the poet, the dramatist,
the philosopher, the divine; but which few, if any, romancers had aimed at. This knowledge
is not elaborately but sufficiently "set" with the halls and ruelles of the Court, the gardens
and woods of Coulommiers; it is displayed with the aid of conversation, which, if it seems
stilted to us, was not so then; and the machinery employed for working out the simple plot--as,
for instance, in the case of the dropped letter, which, having originally nothing whatever
to do with any of the chief characters, becomes an important instrument--is sometimes far from
rudimentary in conception, and very effectively used.

It is therefore no wonder that the book did two things--things of unequal value indeed, but
very important for us. In the first place, it started the School of "Sensibility"[280] in the
novel, and so provided a large and influential portion of eighteenth-century fiction. In the
second--small as it is--it almost started the novel proper, the class of prose fiction which,
though it may take on a great variety of forms and colours, though it may specialise here and
"extravagate" there, yet in the main distinguishes itself from the romance by being first of
all subjective--by putting behaviour, passion, temperament, character, motive before incident
and action in the commoner sense--which had had few if any representatives in ancient times,
had not been disentangled from the romantic envelope in mediaeval, but was to be the chief
new development of modern literature.

       *       *       *       *       *

There seemed to be several reasons for separating Hamilton from the other fairy-tale writers.
The best of all is that he has the same qualification for the present chapter as that which
has installed in it the novelists already noticed--that of idiosyncrasy. This leads to, or
rather is founded on, the consideration that his tales are fairy-tales only "after a sort,"
and testify rather to a prevalent fashion than to a natural affection for the kind.[281] Thirdly,
he exhibits, in his supernatural matter, a new and powerful influence on fiction generally--that
of the first translated Arabian Nights. Lastly, he is in turn himself the head of two considerable
though widely different sub-departments of fiction--the decadent and often worthless but largely
cultivated department of what we may call the fairy-tale improper,[282] and the very important
and sometimes consummately excellent "ironic tale," to be often referred to, and sometimes
fully discussed, hereafter.

The singularity of Hamilton's position has always been recognised; but until comparatively
recently, his history and family relations were very little understood. Since the present writer
discussed him in a paper[283] now a quarter of a century old in print, and older in composition,
further light has been thrown on his life and surroundings in the Dictionary of National Biography,
and more still in a monograph by a lady[284] whose researches will, it is hoped, sooner or
later be published. A very little, too, of the unprinted work which was held back at his death
has been recovered. But this, it seems, includes nothing of importance; and his fame will probably
always rest, as it has so long and so securely rested, on the Mémoires de Grammont, the few
but sometimes charming independent verses, some miscellanies not generally enough appreciated,
and the admirable group of ironic tales which set a fashion hardly more admirably illustrated
since by Voltaire and Beckford[285] and Lord Beaconsfield, to name no others. Of these things
the verses,[286] unfortunately, do not concern us at all; and the Mémoires and miscellanies[286]
only in so far as they add another, and one of the very best, to the brilliant examples of
personal narrative of which the century is so full, and which have so close a connection with
the novel itself. But the Tales are, of course, ours of most obvious right; and they form one
of the most important points de repère in our story.

To discuss, on the one hand, how Hamilton's singularly mixed conditions and circumstances of
birth[287] and life[288] influenced his literary production would be interesting, but in strictness
rather irrelevant. To attempt, on the other, at any great length to consider the influences
which produced the kind of tale he wrote would have more relevance, but would, if pursued in
similar cases elsewhere, lengthen the book enormously. Two main ancestor or progenitor forces,
as they may be called, though both were of very recent date and one actually contemporary,
may be specified. The one was the newborn fancy for fairy-tales, and Eastern tales in particular.
The other was the now ingrained disposition towards ironic writing which, begun by Rabelais,
as a most notable origin, varied and increased by Montaigne and others, had, just before Hamilton,
received fresh shaping and tempering from not a few writers, especially Saint-Évremond. There
is indeed no doubt that this last remarkable and now far too little read writer,[289] who,
let it be remembered, was, like Hamilton, and even more so, an intimate friend of Grammont
and also an inmate of Charles's court, was Hamilton's direct and immediate model so far as
he had any such--his "master" in the general tone of persiflage. But master and pupil chose,
as a rule, different subjects, and the idiosyncrasy of each was intense; it must be remembered,
too, that both were of Norman blood, though that of the Hamiltons had long been transfused
into the veins of a new nationality, while Saint-Évremond was actually born in Normandy. The
Norman (that is to say, the English, with a special intention of difference[290]) in each could
be very easily pointed out if such things were our business. But it is the application of this,
and of other things in relation to the development of the novel, that we have to deal with.

It is said, and there is good reason for believing it to be true, that all the stories have
a more or less pervading vein of "key" application in them. But this, except for persons particularly
interested in such things, has now very little attraction. It has been admitted that it probably
exists, as indeed it does in almost everything of the day, from the big as well as "great"
Cyrus to the little, but certainly not much less great, Princesse de Clèves. But our subject
is what Hamilton writes about these people, not the people about whom he may or may not be writing.

What we have left of Hamilton's tales, as far as they have been printed (and, as was said above,
not much more seems to exist), consists of five stories of very unequal length, and in two
cases out of the five unfinished. One of the finished pieces, Fleur d'Épine, and one of the
unfinished--although unfinished it is not only one of the longest, but, unluckily in a way,
by far the best of all--Les Quatre Facardins, are "framework" stories, and avowedly attach
themselves, in an irreverent sort of attachment, to the Arabian Nights; the others, Le Bélier,
Zénéyde (unfinished), and L'Enchanteur Faustus, are independent, and written in the mixed verse-and-prose
style which had been made popular by various writers, especially Chapelle, but which cannot
be said to be very acceptable in itself. Taken together, they fill a volume of just over 500
average octavo pages in the standard edition of 1812; but their individual length is very unequal.
The two longest, the fragmentary Quatre Facardins and the finished Le Bélier, run each of them
to 142 pages; the shortest, L'Enchanteur Faustus, has just five-and-twenty; while Fleur d'Épine,
in its completeness, has 114, and Zénéyde, in its incompleteness, runs to 78, and might have
run, for aught one can tell--in the mixed tangle of Roman and Merovingian history in which
the author (possibly in ridicule of Madeleine de Scudéry's classical chronicling) has chosen
to plunge it--to 780 or 7800, which latter figure would, after all, have been little more than
half the length of the Grand Cyrus itself.

We may take L'Enchanteur Faustus first, as it requires the shortest notice. In fact, if it
had not been Hamilton's, it would hardly require any. Written to a "charmante Daphné" (evidently
one of the English Jacobite exiles, from a reference to a great-great-grandfather of hers who
was "admiral in Ireland" during Queen Elizabeth's time), it is occupied by a story of the great
Queen herself, who is treated with the mixture of admiration (for her intelligence and spirit)
with "scandal" (about her person and morals) that might be expected at St. Germains. The subject
is the usual exhibition of dead beauties (here by, not to, Faustus), with Elizabeth's affected
depreciation of Helen, Cleopatra, and Mariamne, and her equally affected admiration of Fair
Rosamond,[291] whom she insists on summoning twice, despite Faustus's warning, and with disastrous
consequences. Hamilton's irony is so pervading that one does not know whether ignorance, carelessness,
or intention made him not only introduce Sidney and Essex as contemporary favourites of Elizabeth,
but actually attribute Rosamond's end to poor Jane Shore instead of to Queen Eleanor! This
would matter little if the tale had been stronger; but though it is told with Hamilton's usual
easy fluency, the Queen's depreciations, the flattery of the courtiers, and the rest of it,
are rather slightly and obviously handled. One would give half a dozen like it for that Second
(but not necessarily Last) Part of the Facardins, which Crébillon the younger is said to have
actually seen and had the opportunity of saving, a chance which he neglected till too late.

As L'Enchanteur Faustus is the shortest of the completed tales, so Le Bélier is the longest;
indeed, as indicated above, it is the same length as what we have of Les Quatre Facardins.
It is also--in that unsatisfactory and fragmentary way of knowledge with which literature often
has to content itself--much the best known, because of the celebrated address of the giant
Moulineau to the hero-beast "Bélier, mon ami,... si tu voulais bien commencer par le commencement,
tu me ferais plaisir." There are many other agreeable things in it; but it has on the whole
a double or more than double portion of the drawback which attends these "key" stories. It
was written to please his sister, Madame de Grammont, who had established herself in a country-house,
near Versailles. This she transformed from a mere cottage, called Moulineau, into an elegant
villa to which she gave the name of Pontalie. There were apparently some difficulties with
rustic neighbours, and Anthony wove the whole matter into this story, with the giant and the
(of course enchanted) ram just mentioned; and the beautiful Alie who hates all men (or nearly
all); and her father, a powerful druid, who is the giant's enemy; and the Prince de Noisy and
the Vicomte de Gonesse, and other personages of the environs of Paris, who were no doubt recognisable
and interesting once, but who, whether recognisable or not, are not specially interesting now.
To repeat that there are good scenes and piquant remarks is merely to say once more that the
thing is Hamilton's. But, on the whole, the present writer at any rate has always found it
the least interesting (next to L'Enchanteur Faustus) of all.

On the other hand, Zénéyde--though unfinished, and though containing, in its ostensibly main
story, things compared to which the Prince de Noisy and the Vicomte de Gonesse excite to palpitation--has
points of remarkable interest about it. One of these--a prefatory sketch of the melancholy
court of exiles at St. Germains--is like nothing else in Hamilton and like very few things
anywhere else. This is in no sense fiction--it is, in fact, a historical document of the most
striking kind; but it makes background and canvas for fiction itself,[292] and it gives us,
besides, a most vivid picture of the priest-ridden, caballing little crowd of folk who had
made great renunciations but could not make small. It also shows us in Hamilton a somewhat
darker but also a stronger side of satiric powers, differently nuanced from the quiet persiflage
of the Contes themselves. This, however, though easily "cobbled on" to the special tale, and
possibly not unconnected with it key-fashion, is entirely separable, and might just as well
have formed part of an actual letter to the "Madame de P.," to whom it is addressed.

The tale itself, like some if not all the others, but in a much more strikingly contrasted
fashion, again consists of two strands, interwoven so intimately, however, that it is almost
impossible to separate them, though it is equally impossible to conceive two things more different
from each other. The ostensible theme is a history of herself, given by the Nymph of the Seine
to the author--a history of which more presently. But this is introduced at considerable length,
and interrupted more than once, by scenes and dialogues, between the nymph and her distinctly
unwilling auditor, which are of the most whimsically humorous character to be found even in
Hamilton himself.

The whole account of the self-introduction of the nymph to the narrator is extremely quaint,
but rather long to give here as a whole. It is enough to say that Hamilton represents himself
as by no means an ardent nympholept, or even as flattered by demi-goddess-like advances, which
are of the most obliging description; and that the lady has not only to make fuller and fuller
revelations of her beauty, but at last to exert her supernatural power to some extent in order
to carry the recreant into her "cool grot," not, indeed, under water, but invisibly situated
on land. What there takes place is, unfortunately, as has been said, mainly the telling of
a very dull story with one not so dull episode. But the conclusion of the preface exemplifies
the whimsicality even of the writer, and points to the existence of a commodity in the fashion
of wig-wearing which few who glory in "their own hair," and despise their periwigged forefathers,
are likely to have thought of:

     [Sidenote: Hamilton and the Nymph.]

     At these words [her own] raising her eyes to heaven, she
     sighed several times; and though she tried to keep them
     back, I saw, coursing the length of her cheeks and falling
     on her beautiful neck, tears so natural, in the midst of a
     silence so touching, that I was just about to follow her
     example.[293] But she soon recovered herself; and having
     shown me by a languishing look that she was not insensible
     to my sympathetic emotion ... [she enjoins discretion, and
     then:--] After having looked at me attentively for some
     time she came closer to me, and as she gently pulled one
     side of my wig in order to whisper in my ear, I had to lean
     over her in a rather familiar manner.[294] Her face touched
     mine, and it seemed to me animated by a lively warmth, very
     different from the insensibility which I had accused[295]
     her of shedding upon me when she came out of the water. Her
     breath was pure and fresh, and her goddess-ship, which I had
     suspected of being something marshy, had no taint of mud
     about it. If only I might reveal all that she said to me in
     a confidence which I could have wished longer![295] But
     apparently she got tired of it[295] and let go my wig.
     "'Twould be too tiresome," she said, "to go on talking like
     this. Go out there, and leave us alone!" I turned round, and
     seeing no one in the room, I thought this order was
     addressed to me, so I was just rising....

This quaint presentation of a craven swain is perhaps as good an example as could be found
of the curious mixture of French and English in Hamilton. Hardly any Frenchman could have borne
to put even a fictitious eidolon of himself in such a contemptible light; very few Englishmen,
though they might easily have done this, would have done it so neatly, and with so quaint a
travesty of romantic situation. But the main story, as admitted above, is assommant, though,
just before the breach, a substitution of three agreeable damsels for the nymph herself promises
something better.

This combination of the dullest with some of the finest and most characteristic work of the
author, would be rather a puzzle in a more "serious" writer than Hamilton; but in his case
there is no need to distress, or in any way to cumber, oneself about the matter. The whole
thing was a "compliment," as the age would have said, to Fantasy; and the rules of the Court
of Quintessence, though not non-existent as dull fools suppose, are singularly elastic to skilled
players.

We are left with what, even as it exists, is by far his most ambitious attempt, and with one
in which, considering all its actual features, one need not be taking things too seriously
if one decides that he had an aim at something like a whole--even if the legends[296] about
further parts, actually seen and destroyed by a more than Byzantine pudibundity, are not taken
as wholly gospel.

The completed Fleur d'Épine and the uncompleted Quatre Facardins[297] are in effect continuous
parts (and to all appearance incomplete in more than the finishing of the second story) of
an untitled but intelligibly sketched continuation of the Arabian Nights themselves. Hamilton,
like others since, had evidently conceived an affection for Dinarzade: and a considerable contempt
for Schahriar's notion of the advantages of matrimony. It is less certain, but I think possible,
that he had anticipated the ideas of those who think that the unmarried sister went at least
halves in the composition or remembrance of the stories themselves, or she could not have varied
her timing at dawn so adroitly. He had, at any rate, an Irish-Englishman's sense of honest
if humorous indignation at the part which she has to play (or rather endure) in these "two
years" (much nearer three!), and the sequel in a way revenges her.

I should imagine that Thackeray must have been reminiscent of Hamilton when he devised the
part of "Sister Anne" in Bluebeard's Ghost. Like her, Hamilton's Dinarzade is slightly flippant;
she would most certainly have observed "Dolly Codlins is the matter" in Anne's place. Like
her, she is not unprovided with lovers; she actually, at the beginning, "takes a night off"
that she may entertain the Prince of Trebizond; and it is the Prince himself who relates the
great, but, alas! torsoed epic of the Facardins,[298] of whom he is himself one. But as there
are only two stories, there is no room for much framework, and we see much less of the "resurrected"
Dinarzade[299] than we could wish from what we do see and hear.

Fleur d'Épine, which she herself tells, is a capital story, somewhat closer to the usual norm
of the Nights than is usual with Hamilton. It bases itself on the well-known legends of the
Princess with the literally murderous eyes; but this Princess Luisante is not really the heroine,
and is absent from the greater part of the tale, though she is finally provided with the hero's
brother, who is a reigning prince, and has everything handsome about him. The actual hero Tarare
(French for "Fiddlestick!" or something of that sort, and of course an assumed name), in order
to cure Luisante's eyes of their lethal quality, has to liberate a still more attractive damsel--the
title-heroine--putative daughter of a good fairy and actual victim of a bad one, quite in the
orthodox style. He does this chiefly by the aid of a very amiable mare, who makes music wherever
she goes, and can do wonderful things when her ears are duly manipulated. It is a good and
pleasant story, with plenty of the direct relish of the fairy-tale, Eastern and Western, and
plenty also of satirical parody of the serious romance. But it is not quite consummate. The
opening, however, as a fair specimen of Hamilton's style, may be given.

     [Sidenote: The opening of Fleur d'Épine.]

     Two thousand four hundred and fifty-three leagues from here
     there is an extraordinarily fine country called Cashmere. In
     this country reigned a Caliph; that Caliph had a daughter,
     and that daughter had a face; but people wished more than
     once that she had never had any. Her beauty was not
     insupportable till she was fifteen; but at that age it
     became impossible to endure it. She had the most beautiful
     mouth in the world; her nose was a masterpiece; the lilies
     of Cashmere--a thousand times whiter than ours--were
     discoloured beside her complexion; and it seemed impertinent
     of the fresh-blown rose to show itself beside the carnation
     of her cheek. Her forehead was unmatchable for shape and
     brilliancy; its whiteness was contrasted with a Vandyke
     point of hair blacker and more shining than jet--whence she
     took her name of "Luisante"; the shape of her face seemed
     made to frame so many wonders. But her eyes spoilt
     everything.

     No one had ever been able to look at them long enough to
     distinguish their exact colour; for as soon as one met her
     glance it was like a stroke of lightning. When she was eight
     years old her father, the Caliph, was in the habit of
     sending for her, to admire his offspring and give the
     courtiers the opportunity of paying a thousand feeble
     compliments to her youthful beauty; for even then they used
     to put out the candles at midnight, no other light being
     necessary except that of the little one's eyes. Yet all this
     was nothing but--in the literal sense, and the
     other--child's play; it was when her eyes had acquired full
     strength that they became no joking matter.

[The fatal effects--killing men in twenty-four hours, and blinding women--are then told, with
the complaints of the nobility whose sons have fallen victims, and the various suggestions
for remedying the evil made at a committee, which is presided over by the Seneschal of the
kingdom ... "the silliest man who had ever held such an office--so much so that the caliph
could not possibly think of choosing any one less silly." Tarare happens to be in this pundit-potentate's
service; and so the story starts.]

[Sidenote: Les Quatre Facardins.]

But--and indeed the writer's opinion on this point has already been indicated--Hamilton's masterpiece,
unfinished as it is, is Les Quatre Facardins. Indeed, though unfinished in one sense, it is,
in another, the most finished of all. Beside it the completed Faustus is a mere trifle, and
not a very interesting trifle. It has no dull parts like Zénéyde and even Le Bélier. It has
much greater complication of interest and variety of treatment than Fleur d'Épine, in which,
after the opening, Hamilton's peculiar persiflage, though not absent, is much less noticeable.
It at least suggests, tantalising as the suggestion is, that the author for once really intended
to wind up all his threads into a compact ball, or (which is the better image) to weave them
into a new and definite pattern. Moreover--this may not be a recommendation to everybody, but
it is a very strong one to the present historian,--it has no obvious or insistent "key"-element
whatsoever. It is, indeed, not at all unlikely that there is one, for the trick was ingrained
in the literature and the society of the time. But if so, it is a sleeping dog that neither
bites nor barks; and if you let it alone it will stay in its kennel, and not even obtrude itself
upon your view.

To these partly, if not wholly, negative merits it adds positive ones of a very considerable
and delectable kind. The connection with the Arabian Nights is brought closer still in the
fact that it is not only told (as of himself) by the Prince of Trebizond, Dinarzade's servant-cavalier,
but is linked--to an important extent, and not at all to Schahriar's unmixed satisfaction--with
one of the earliest incidents of the Nights themselves, the remarkable story how the Lady from
the Sea increases her store of rings at the cost of some exertion and alarm--not to mention
the value of the rings themselves--to the Sultan and his brother, the King of Tartary. This
lady, with her genie and her glass box, reappears as "Cristalline la Curieuse"--one of the
two heroines. The other, of whose actual adventures we hear only the beginning, and that at
the very close of the story, is Mousseline la Sérieuse, who never laughs, and who, later, escaping
literally by the loss of her last garment, twitched off by the jaws of an enormous crocodile,
afterwards the pest of the country, finds herself under a mysterious weird. She is never able
to get a similar vestment made for her, either of day- or night-fashion. Three hundred and
seventy-four dozen of such things, which formed her wardrobe, had disappeared[300] after the
death (actually crocodile-devoured) of her Mistress of the Robes; and although she used up
all the linen-drapers' stocks of the capital in trying to get new ones, they were all somewhat
milder varieties of the shirt of Nessus. For the day-shifts deprived her of all appetite for
food or drink, and the night ones made it impossible for her to sleep.

This particular incident comes, as has been said, just at the end of what we have of the book;
indeed there is nothing more, save a burlesque embassy, amply provided with painted cloth[301]
and monkeys, to the great enchanter Caramoussal (who has already figured in the book), and
the announcement, by one of the other Facardins, of its result--a new adventure for champions,
who must either make the Princess laugh or kill the crocodile. "It is indifferent," we learn
from a most Hamiltonian sentence, "whether you begin with the crocodile or with the Princess."
Indeed there is yet another means of restoring peace in the Kingdom of Astrachan, according
to the enchanter himself, who modestly disclaims being an enchanter, observing (again in a
thoroughly Hamiltonian manner) that as he lives on the top of a mountain close to the stars,
they probably tell him more than they tell other people. It is to collect three spinning-wheels[302]
which are scattered over the universe, but of some of which we have heard earlier in the story.

One takes perhaps a certain pleasure in outraging the feelings of the giant Moulineau, so hateful
to Madame de Grammont, by beginning not merely in the middle but at the end--an end, alas!
due, if we believe all the legends, to her own mistaken zeal when she became a dévote--a variety
of person for whom her brother[303] certainly had small affection, though he did not avenge
himself on it in novel-form quite so cruelly as did Marivaux later. It is, however, quite good
to begin at the beginning, though the verse-preface needs perhaps to be read with eyes of understanding.
Ostensibly, it is a sort of historical condemnation of all the species of fiction which had
been popular for half a century or so, and is thus very much to our purpose, though, like almost
all the verses included in these tales, it does not show the poetic power which the author
of Celle que j'adore[304] undoubtedly possessed. Mere tales, he says, have quite banished from
court favour romances, celebrated for their sentiments, from Cyrus to Zaïde, i.e. from Mlle.
de Scudéry to Mme. de la Fayette. Télémaque had no better fate

    On courut au Palais[305] le rendre,
    Et l'on s'empressa d'y reprendre
    Le Rameau d'Or et l'Oiseau Bleu.[306]

Then came the "Arabian tales," of which he speaks with a harshness, the sincerity or design
of which may be left to the reader; and then he himself took up the running, of course obliged
by request of irresistible friends of the other sex. All which may or may not be read with
grains of salt--the salt-merchant of which everybody is at liberty to choose for himself. Something
may be said on the subject when we, in all modesty, try to sum up Hamilton and the period.

But we must now give some more account of the "Four Facardins" themselves. He of Trebizond
is a tributary Prince of Schahriar's, much after the fashion (it is to be feared here burlesqued)
of the innumerable second- and third-class heroes whom one meets in the Cyrus. He begins, like
Dinarzade,[307] by "cheeking" the Sultan on his views of matrimony; and then he tells how he
set out from his dominions in quest of adventures, and met another bearer of the remarkable
name which his mother had insisted on giving him. This second adventurer happened to be bearer
also of a helmet with a strange bird, apparently all made of gems, as its crest. They exchange
confidences, which are to the effect that the Trebizondian Facardin is a lady-killer of the
most extravagant success, while the other (who is afterwards called Facardin of the Mountain)
is always unfortunate in love; notwithstanding which he proposes to undertake the adventure
(to be long afterwards defined) of Mousseline la Sérieuse. For the present he contents himself
with two or three more stories (or, rather, one in several "fyttes"), which reduce the wildest
of the Nights to simple village tales--of an island where lions are hunted with a provision
of virgins, chanticleers, and small deer on an elaborately ruled system; of a mountain full
of wild beasts, witches, lovely nymphs, savages, and an enchanter at the top. After an interruption
very much in the style of Chaucer's Host and Sir Thopas, from Dinarzade, who is properly rebuked
by the Sultan, Facardin of the Mountain (he has quite early in the story received the celebrated
scratch from a lion's claw, "from his right shoulder to his left heel") recounts a shorter
adventure with Princess Sapinelle of Denmark, and at last, after a fresh outburst from Dinarzade,
the Prince of Trebizond comes to his own affairs.

Then it is that (after some details about the Prince of Ophir, who has a minim mouth and an
enormous nose, and the Princess of Bactria, whose features were just the reverse) we recover
Cristalline. It is perhaps only here that even Mrs. Grundy, though she may have been uncomfortable
elsewhere, can feel really shocked at Hamilton; others than Mrs. Grundy need not be so even
here. The genie has discovered his Lady's little ways, and has resolved to avenge himself on
her by strict custody, and by a means of delivery which, if possible, might not have entirely
displeased her. The hundred rings are bewitched to their chain, and are only to be recovered
by the same process which strung them on it. But this process must be applied by one person
in the space of twelve hours, and the conditions are only revealed to him after he has been
kidnapped or cajoled within the genie's power. If he refuses to try, he is clad as Omphale
clad Hercules, and set to work. If he tries and fails, he is to be flayed alive and burnt.
Facardin, to the despair of his secretary, enters--beguiled by a black ambassadress, who merely
informs him that a lady wants help--the enchanted boat which takes him to the fatal scene.
But when he is to be introduced to the lady he entirely declines to part with his sword; and
when the whole secret is revealed he, with the help of Cristalline, who is really a good-natured
creature in more senses than one, slays the three chief minions of the tyrant--a watchmaker
who sets the clock, a locksmith who is to count the detached rings, and a kind of Executioner
High-priest who is to do the flaying and burning,--cuts his way with Cristalline herself to
the enchanted boat, regaining terra firma and (relatively speaking) terra not too much enchanted.
But at his very landing at the mouth of the crocodile river he again meets Facardin of the
Mountain (who has figured in Cristalline's history earlier) with the two others, whose stories
we shall never hear; and is told about Mousseline; whereat we and the tale "join our ends"
as far as is permitted.

It would be easy to pick from this story alone a sort of nosegay of Hamiltonisms like that
from Fuller, which Charles Lamb selected so convincingly that some have thought them simply
invented. But it would be unjust to Anthony, because, unless each was given in a matrix of
context, nobody could, in most cases at any rate, do justice to this curious glancing genius
of his. It exists in Sydney Smith to some extent--in Thackeray to more--among Englishmen. There
is, in French, something of it in Lesage, who possibly learnt it directly from him; and of
course a good deal, though of a lower kind, in Voltaire, who certainly did learn it from him.
But it is, with that slight indebtedness to Saint-Évremond noticed above, essentially new and
original. It is a mixture of English-Irish (that is to say, Anglo-Norman) humour with French
wit, almost unattainable at that day except by a man who, in addition to his natural gifts,
had the mixed advantages and disadvantages of his exile position.

Frenchmen at the time--there is abundance, not of mere anecdote, but of solid evidence to prove
it--knew practically nothing of English literature. Englishmen knew a good deal more of French,
and imitated and translated it, sometimes more eagerly than wisely. But they had not as yet
assimilated or appreciated it: that was left for the eighteenth century to do. Meanwhile Hamilton
brought the double influence to bear, not merely on the French novel, but on the novel in general
and on the eccentric novel in particular. To appreciate him properly, he ought to be compared
with Rabelais before him and with Voltaire or Sterne--with both, perhaps, as a counsel of perfection--after
him. He is a smaller man, both in literature and in humanity, than Master Francis; but the
phrase which Voltaire himself rather absurdly used of Swift might be used without any absurdity
in reference to him. He is a "Rabelais de bonne compagnie," and from the exactly opposite point
of view he might be called a Voltaire or a Sterne de bonne compagnie likewise. That is to say,
he is a gentleman pretty certainly as well as a genius, which Rabelais might have been, at
any rate in other circumstances, but did not choose to be, and which neither François Arouet
nor Laurence Sterne could have been, however much either had tried, though the metamorphosis
is not quite so utterly inconceivable in Sterne's case as in the other's. Hamilton, it has
been confessed, is sometimes "naughty"; but his naughtiness is neither coarse nor sniggering,[308]
and he depends upon it so little--a very important point--that he is sometimes most amusing
when he is not naughty at all. In other words, he has no need of it, but simply takes it as
one of the infinite functions of human comedy. Against which let Mrs. Grundy say what she likes.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is conceivable that objection may be taken, or at any rate surprise felt, at the fulness
with which a group of mostly little books--no one of them produced by an author of the first
magnitude as usual estimates run--has been here handled. But the truth is that the actual birth
of the French novel took a much longer time than that of the English--a phenomenon explicable,
without any national vainglory, by the fact that it came first and gave us patterns and stimulants.
The writers surveyed in this chapter, and those who will take their places in the next--at
least Scarron, Furetière, Madame de La Fayette and Hamilton, Lesage, Marivaux, and Prévost--whatever
objections or limitations may be brought against them, form the central group of the originators
of the modern novel. They open the book of life, as distinguished from that of factitious and
rather stale literature; they point out the varieties of incident and character; the manners
and interiors and fantastic adjustments; the sentiment rising to passion--which are to determine
the developments and departments of the fiction of the future. They leave, as far as we have
seen them, great opportunities for improvement to those immediate followers to whom we shall
now turn. Hamilton is, indeed, not yet much followed, but Lesage far outgoes Scarron in the
raising of the picaresque; Marivaux distances Furetière in painting of manners and in what
some people call psychology; Manon Lescaut throws La Princesse de Clèves into the shade as
regards the greatest and most novel-breeding of the passions. But the whole are really a bloc,
the continental sense of which is rather different from our "block." And perhaps we shall find
that, though none of them was equal in genius to some who succeeded them in novel-writing,
the novel itself made little progress, and some backsliding, during nearly a hundred years
after they ceased to write.

NOTE ON TÉLÉMAQUE

     It may not perhaps be superfluous to give the rest of that
     criticism of Hamilton's on Télémaque, the conclusion of
     which has been quoted above. "In vain, from the famous
     coasts of Ithaca, the wise and renowned Mentor came to
     enrich us with those treasures of his which his Télémaque
     contains. In vain the art of the teacher delicately
     displays, in this romance of a rare kind, the usefulness and
     the deceitfulness of politics and of love, as well as that
     fatal sweetness--frail daughter of luxury--which intoxicates
     a conquering hero at the feet of a young mistress or of a
     skilful enchantress, such as in each case this Mentor
     depicts them. But, well-versed as he was in human weakness,
     and elaborately as he imitated the style and the stories of
     Greece, the vogue that he had was of short duration. Weary
     of inability to understand the mysteries which he unfolded,
     men ran to the Palais to give back the volume," etc., etc.

     Hamilton, no doubt intentionally, has himself made this
     criticism rather "mysterious." It is well known that, if not
     quite at first, very soon after its appearance, the fact
     that the politics, if not also the morals, of Fénelon's book
     were directly at variance with Court standards was
     recognised. At a time when Court favour and fashion were the
     very breath of the upper circles, and directly or indirectly
     ruled the middle, the popularity of this curious
     romance-exhortation was, at any rate for a time, nipped in
     the bud, to revive only in the permanent but not altogether
     satisfactory conditions of a school-book. Whether Hamilton
     dealt discreetly with the matter by purposely confining
     himself to the record of a fact, or at least mixing praise
     to which no exception could be taken, with what might be
     taken for blame, one cannot say. By dotting a few i's,
     crossing the t's, and perhaps touching up some hidden
     letters with the requisite reagent, one can, however, get a
     not unfair or unshrewd criticism of the book out of this
     envelope. Télémaque, if it is not, as one of Thackeray's
     "thorn" correspondents suggested, superior to "Lovel
     Parsonage and Framley the Widower," has, or with some
     easy suppressions and a very few additions and developments
     might have, much more pure romance interest than its
     centuries of scholastic use allow it to have for most
     people. Eucharis is capable of being much more than she is
     allowed to show herself; and some Mrs. Grundys, with more
     intelligence than the average member of the clan, have
     hinted that Calypso might be dangerous if the persons who
     read about her were not likely to consider her as too old to
     be interesting. The style is, of course, admirable--there
     has hardly ever been a better writer of French than Fénelon,
     who was also a first-rate narrator and no mean critic.
     Whether by the "mysteries" Hamilton himself meant politics,
     morals, religion, or all three and other "serious" things,
     is a point which, once more, is impossible to settle. But it
     is quite certain that, whether there is any difficulty in
     comprehending them or not, a great many--probably the huge
     majority--of novel readers would not care to take the
     trouble to comprehend them, and might, even if they found
     little difficulty, resent being asked to do so. And so we
     have here not the first--for, as has been said, the Heroic
     romance itself had much earlier been "conscripted" into the
     service of didactics--but the first brilliant, or almost
     brilliant, example of that novel of purpose which will meet
     us so often hereafter. It may be said to have at once
     revealed (for the earlier examples were, as a rule, too dull
     to be fair tests) the ineradicable defects of the species.
     Even when the purpose does not entirely preclude the
     possibility of enjoyment, it always gets in the way thereof;
     and when the enjoyable matter does not absorb attention to
     the disregard of the purpose altogether, it seldom--perhaps
     never--really helps that purpose to get itself fulfilled.

FOOTNOTES:

[247] It is perhaps not quite superfluous to point out that the principle of separation in
these chapters is quite different from that (between "idealist" and "realist") pursued by Körting
and others, and reprobated, partially or wholly, by MM. Le Breton and Brunetière. But their
goodness shows itself in hardly more than a single work in each case. Anthony Hamilton's is
in all his.

[250] It has been noted, I think, by all who have written about the Berger, that Sorel is a
sort of Balak and Balaam in one. He calls on himself to curse the Astrée, but he, sometimes
at least, blesses it.

[251] The Berger fills two volumes of some nine hundred pages; Polyandre, two of six hundred
each! But it must be admitted that the print is very large and widely spaced.

[252] One remembers the story of the greater Corneille calling to the lesser down a trap between
their two houses, "Sans-Souci!--une rime!"

[253] I have known this word more than once objected to as pedantic. But pedantry in this kind
consists in using out-of-the-way terms when common ones are ready to hand. There is no single
word in English to express the lower kind of "Dutch-painting" as this Greek word does. And
Greek is a recognised and standing source of words for English. If geography, why not rhyparography?--or,
if any one prefers it, "rhypography," which, however, is not, I think, so good a form.

[254] There is, no doubt, significance in the fact that they are definitely called nouvelles.

[255] V. sup. p. 204. The habit of these continues in all the books. L'Illustre Bassa opens
with a most elaborate, but still not very much "alive," procession and sham fight.

[256] Of course Cervantes is not shadowy.

[257] As far as mere chronology goes, Cyrano, v. inf., should come between; but it would split
the parallel.

[258] Scarron had, in Le Destin's account of himself, made a distinction between the pastoral
and heroic groups and the "old" romances, meaning thereby not the true mediaeval specimens
but the Amadis cycle. Furetière definitely classes all of them together.

[259] The time is well known to have been fond of anagrams, and "Charroselles" is such an obvious
one for "Charles Sorel" that for once there is no need to gainsay or neglect the interpreters.
The thing, if really meant for a real person, is a distinct lampoon, and may perhaps explain
the expulsion and persecution of Furetière, by his colleagues of the Academy, almost as well
as the ostensible cause thereof--his compiling, in competition with the Academy itself, of
a French Dictionary, and a very good one, which was not printed till after his death, and ultimately
became the famous Dictionnaire de Trévoux. Not that Sorel himself was of much importance, but
that the thing shows the irritable and irritating literary failing in the highest degree. Furetière
had friends of position, from Boileau, Racine, and Bossuet downwards; and the king himself,
though he did not interfere, seems to have disapproved the Academy's action. But the Roman
was heavily "slated" for many years, though it had a curious revival in the earlier part of
the next century; and for the rest of that century and the first part of the nineteenth it
was almost wholly forgotten.

[260] She falls in love with an ebony cabinet at a fair which they visit together, and he gives
it her. But, anticipating that she will use it for her most precious things, he privately gets
a second set of keys from the seller, and in her absence achieves the theft of the promise.

[261] Any one who has, as the present writer has had, opportunities of actually doing this,
will find it a not uninteresting operation, and one which "amply repays the expense" of time
and trouble.

[262] This is a point of importance. Details of a life-like character are most valuable in
the novel; but if they are not "material" in the transferred sense they are simply a bore.
Scott undoubtedly learnt this lesson from his prentice work in finishing Strutt's Queenhoo
Hall, where the story is simply a clumsy vehicle for conveying information about sports and
pastimes and costumes and such-like "antiquarities."

[263] To us small, as are not those of its predecessors.

[264] Not a bad instance of the subacid touches which make the book lively, and which probably
supply some explanation of its author's unpopularity. The "furred law-cats" of all kinds were
always a prevailing party in Old France, and required stout gloves to touch them with.

[265] This (often called by its Italian name of Quarant' ore) is a "Devotion" during an exposure
of the Sacrament for that time, in memory of the interval between the Crucifixion and the Resurrection
of Our Lord. It is a public service, and, I suppose, collections were made at intervals. No
one, especially no girl, could stand the time straight through. The "Paradise" was, of course,
a "decoration."

[266] Javotte says "shoe the mule"--"ferrer la mule"--one of the phrases like "faire danser
l'anse du panier" and others, for taking "self-presented testimonials," as Wilkie Collins's
Captain Wragge more elegantly and less cryptically calls it.

[267] Of course the regular "thanks" of a collector for pious purposes.

[268] He does later seek this, and only loses her (if she can be called a loss) by his own
folly. But his main objective is to conter (or as Furetière himself has it, débiter) la fleurette.
It ought, perhaps, to be mentioned, as a possible counterweight or drawback, that the novelist
breaks off to discuss the too great matter-of-factness of bourgeois girls and women. But he
was to have great followers in this also.

[269] He was born and baptised Savinien de Cyrano, and called himself de Cyrano-Bergerac. The
sound of the additional designation and some of his legendary peculiarities probably led to
his being taken for a Gascon; but there is no evidence of meridional extraction or seat, and
there appears to be some of Breton or other Western connection.

[270] There is nothing in the least astonishing in his having been this--if he was. The tendency
of the Renaissance towards what is called "free thought" is quite well known; and the existence,
in the seventeenth century, of a sort of school of boisterous and rather vulgar infidelity
is familiar--with the names of Bardouville, and Saint-Ibal or Saint-Ibar, as members of it--to
all readers of Saint-Évremond, Tallemant, the Ana, etc.

[271] Perhaps the dullest part is where (save the mark!) the Demon of Socrates is brought in
to talk sometimes mere platitudes, sometimes tame paradoxes which might as well be put in the
mouth of any pupil-teacher, or any popular journalist or dramatist, of the present day.--Of
the attempt to make Swift Cyrano's debtor one need say little: but among predecessors, if not
creditors, Ben Jonson, for his News from the New World discovered in the Moon, may at least
be mentioned.

[272] The key-mongers, of course, identify the three with the author, her own husband, and
La Rochefoucauld.

[273] He has ensconced himself in one of the smaller rooms of a garden pavilion outside of
which they are sitting, having left their suite at some distance.

[274] Maîtresse de sa conduite, a curious but not difficult text as to French ideas of marriage.

[275] I have been obliged to insert "trials" to bring out the meaning of "exposée au milieu."
"Exposée" has a fuller sense than the simple English verb, and almost equals the legal "exposed
for sale."

[276] Mme. de la Fayette was a very accomplished woman, and, possibly from her familiarity
with Queen Henrietta Maria, well acquainted with English as well as French history. But our
proper names, as usual, vanquish her, and she makes Henry VIII. marry Jane Seimer and Catherine
Havart.

[277] This does not apply to the main love story but to the atmosphere generally. The Vidame
de Chartres, for instance, is represented as in love with (1) Queen Catherine; (2) a Mme. de
Themines, with whom he is not quite satisfied; (3) a Mme. de Martignes, with whom he is; (4)
a lady unnamed, with whom he has trompé them all. This may be true enough to life; but it is
difficult to make it into good matter of fiction, especially with a crowd of other people doing
much the same.

[278] It ought, perhaps, to be added that though manners, etc., altered not a little between
Henri II. and Louis XIV., the alteration was much less than in most other histories at most
other periods. It would be easy to find two persons in Tallemant whose actual experience covered
the whole time.

[279] You had to call it so when I first saw it; when I last did so it was "Oiron." No doubt
it is something else now.

[280] For that, see Chapter XII.

[281] See below on the version Introduction to the Quatre Facardins.

[282] Including miscellaneous imbecility and unsuitableness as well as moral indecorum.

[283] Written for the Fortnightly Review in 1882, but by a chapter of accidents not printed
till 1890. Reprinted next year in Essays on French Novelists (London, 1891).

[284] Miss Ruth Clark.

[285] The conclusion of Vathek is of course undoubtedly more "admirable" than anything of Hamilton's;
but it is in a quite different genus.

[286] The piece Celle que j'adore is the best of the casual verses, though there are other
good songs, etc. Those which alternate with the prose of some of the tales are too often (as
in the case of the Cabinet insets, v. sup.) rather prosaic. Of the prose miscellanies the so-called
Relations "of different places in Europe," and "of a voyage to Mauritania," contain some of
the cream of Hamilton's almost uniquely ironic narrative and commentary. When that great book,
"The Nature and History of Irony," which has to be written is written--the last man died with
the last century and the next hour seems far off--a contrast of Hamilton and Kinglake will
probably form part of it.

[287] As a member, though a cadet, of a cadet branch of one of the noblest families of Great
Britain and Ireland.

[288] As a soldier, a courtier of Charles II., and a Jacobite exile in France.

[289] I may perhaps be allowed to refer to another essay of mine on him in Miscellaneous Essays
(London, 1892). It contains a full account, and some translation, of the Conversation du maréchal
d'Hocquincourt avec le Père Canaye, which is at once the author's masterpiece of quiet irony,
his greatest pattern for the novelist, and his clearest evidence of influence on Hamilton.

[290] There are some who hold that the "English" differentia, whether shown in letters or in
life, whether south or north of Tweed, east or west of St. George's Channel is always Anglo-Norman.

[291] The "Marian" and Roman comparison of Anne Boleyn's position to Rosamond's is interesting.

[292] It is a sort of brief lift and drop of the curtain which still concealed the true historical
novel; it has even got a further literary interest as giving the seamy side of the texture
of Macaulay's admirable Jacobite's Epitaph. The account would be rather out of place here,
but may be found translated at length (pp. 44-46) in the volume of Essays on French Novelists
more than once referred to.

[293] The most unexpected bathos of these last three words is of course intentional, and is
Hamilton all over.

[294] The nymph is lying on a couch, and her companion (who has been recalcitrant even to this
politeness) is sitting beside her.

[295] This is as impudent as the other passages below are imbecile--of course in each case
(as before) with a calculated impudence and imbecility. The miserable creature had himself
obliged her to "come out of the water" by declining to join her there on the plea that he was
never good for an assignation when he was wet!

[296] If they are true, and if Madame de Grammont was the culprit, it is a sad confirmation
of the old gibe, "Skittish in youth, prudish in age." It can only be pleaded in extenuation
that some youth which was not skittish, such as Sarah Marlborough's, matured or turned into
something worse than "devotion." And Elizabeth Hamilton was so very pretty!

[297] "Completions" of both Zénéyde and Les Quatre Facardins, by the Duke de Lévis, are included
in some editions, but they are, after the fashions of such things, very little good.

[298] The name is not, like "Tarare," a direct burlesque; but it suggests a burlesque intention
when taken with "facond" and others including, perhaps, even faquin.

[299] The Sultaness is almost persona muta--and indeed her tongue must have required a rest.

[300] As Hamilton's satiric intention is as sleepless as poor Princess Mousseline herself,
it is not impossible that he remembered the incident recorded by Pepys, or somebody, how King
Charles the Second could not get a sheet of letter paper to write on for all the Royal Households
and Stationery Offices and such-like things in the English world.

[301] I.e. colour-printed cotton from India--a novelty "fashionable" and, therefore, satirisable
in France.

[302] Or "distaffs and spindles"?

[303] She is indeed said to have "converted" both him and Grammont, the latter perhaps the
most remarkable achievement of its kind.

[304] Mr. Austin Dobson's charming translation of this was originally intended to appear in
the present writer's essay above mentioned.

[305] The chief region of bookselling. Cf. Corneille's early comedy, La Galerie du Palais.

[306] For note on Télémaque see end of chapter.

[307] Who is here herself an improved Doralise.

[308] To put it otherwise in technical French, there is a little grivoiserie in him, but absolutely
no polissonnerie, still less any cochonnerie. Or it may be put, best of all, in his own words
when, in a short French-Greek dialogue, called La Volupté, he makes Aspasia say to Agathon,
"Je vous crois fort voluptueux, sans vous croire débauché."

CHAPTER X

LESAGE, MARIVAUX, PRÉVOST, CRÉBILLON

The words which closed the last chapter should make it unnecessary to prefix much of the same
kind to this, though at the end we may have again to summarise rather more fully.

[Sidenote: The subjects of the chapter.]

As was there observed, our figures here are, with the possible exception of Crébillon Fils,
"larger" persons than those dealt with before them; and they also mark a further transition
towards the condition--the "employment or vocation"--of the novelist proper, though the polygraphic
habit which has grown upon all modern literature, and which began in France almost earlier
than anywhere else, affects them. Scarron was even more of a dramatist than of a novelist;
and though this was also the case with Lesage and Marivaux--while Prévost was, save for his
masterpiece, a polygraph of the polygraphs--their work in fiction was far larger, both positively
and comparatively, than his. Gil Blas for general popularity, and Manon Lescaut for enthusiastic
admiration of the elect, rank almost, if not quite, among the greatest novels of the world.
Marivaux, for all his irritating habit of leaving things unfinished, and the almost equally
irritating affectation of phrase, in which he anticipated some English novelists of the late
nineteenth and earliest twentieth century, is almost the first "psychologist" of prose fiction;
that is to say, where Madame de la Fayette had taken the soul-analysis of hardly more than
two persons (Nemours scarcely counts) in a single situation, Marivaux gives us an almost complete
dissection of the temperament and character of a girl and of a man under many ordinary life-circumstances
for a considerable time.

[Sidenote: Lesage--his Spanish connections.]

But we must begin, not with him but with Lesage, not merely as the older man by twenty years,
but in virtue of that comparative "greatness" of his greatest work which has been glanced at.
There is perhaps a doubt whether Gil Blas is as much read now as it used to be; it is pretty
certain that Le Diable Boiteux is not. The certainty is a pity; and if the doubt be true, it
is a greater pity still. For more than a century Gil Blas was almost as much[309] a classic,
either in the original or in translation, in England as it was in France; and the delight which
it gave to thousands of readers was scarcely more important to the history of fiction generally
than the influence it exerted upon generation after generation of novelists, not merely in
its own country, but on the far greater artists in fiction of the eighteenth and early nineteenth
century in England from Fielding to Scott, if not to Dickens. Now, I suppose, that we are told
to start with the axiom that even Fielding's structure of humanity is a simple toy-like thing,
how much more is Lesage's? But for those of us who have not bowed the knee to foolish modern
Baals, "They reconciled us; we embraced, and we have since been mortal enemies"; and the trout;
and the soul of the licentiate; and Dr. Sangrado; and the Archbishop of Granada--to mention
only the most famous and hackneyed matters--are still things a little larger, a little more
complex, a little more eternal and true, than webs of uninteresting analysis told in phrase
to which Marivaudage itself is golden and honeyed Atticism.

Yet once more we can banish, with a joyful and quiet mind, a crowd of idle fancies and disputes,
apparently but not really affecting our subjects. The myth of a direct Spanish origin for Gil
Blas is almost as easily dispersible by the clear sun of criticism as the exaggeration of the
debt of the smaller book to Guevara. On the other hand, the general filiation of Lesage on
his Spanish predecessors is undeniable, and not worth even shading off and toning down. A man
is not ashamed of having good fathers and grandfathers, whose property he now enjoys, before
him in life; and why should he be in literature?

[Sidenote: Peculiarity of his work generally.]

Lesage's work, in fiction and out of it, is considerable in bulk, but it is affected (to what
extent disadvantageously different judges may judge differently) by some of the peculiarities
of the time which have been already mentioned, and by some which have not. It is partly original,
partly mere translation, and partly also a mixture of the strangest kind. Further, its composition
took place in a way difficult to adjust to later ideas. Lesage was not, like Marivaux, a professed
and shameless "unfinisher," but he took a great deal of time to finish his work.[310] He was
not an early-writing author; and when he did begin, he showed something of that same strange
need of a suggestion, a "send-off," or whatever anybody likes to call it, which appears even
in his greatest work. He began with the Letters of Aristaenetus, which, though perhaps they
have been abused more than they deserve by people who have never read them, and would never
have heard of them if it had not been for Alain René, are certainly not the things that most
scholars, with the whole range of Greek literature before them to choose from, would have selected.
His second venture was almost worse than his first; for there are some prettinesses in Aristaenetus,
and except for the one famous passage enshrined by Pope in the Essay on Criticism, there is,
I believe,[311] nothing good in the continuation of Don Quixote by the so-called Avellaneda.
But at any rate this job, which is attributed to the suggestion of the Abbé de Lyonne, "put"
Lesage on Spanish, and never did fitter seed fall on more fertile soil.

[Sidenote: And its variety.]

Longinus would, I think, have liked Gil Blas, and indeed Lesage, very much. You might kill
ten asses, of the tallest Poitou standard in size and the purest Zoilus or Momus sub-variety
in breed, under you while going through his "faults." He translates; he borrows; he "plagiarises"
about as much as is possible for anybody who is not a mere dullard to do. Of set plot there
is nothing in his work, whether you take the two famous pieces, or the major adaptations like
Estévanille Gonzales and Guzman d'Alfarache, or the lesser things, more Lucianic than anything
else, such as the Cheminées de Madrid[312] and the Journée des Parques and the Valise Trouvée.
"He worked for his living" (as M. Anatole France long ago began a paper about him which is
not quite the best of its very admirable author's work), and though the pot never boiled quite
so merrily as the cook deserved, the fact of the pot-boiling makes itself constantly felt.
Les chaînes de l'esclavage must have cut deep into his soul, and the result of the cutting
is evident enough in his work. But the vital marks on that work are such as many perfectly
free men, who have wished to take literature as a mistress only, have never been able to impress
on theirs. He died full of years, but scarcely of the honours due to him, failing in power,
and after a life[313] of very little luck, except as regards possession of a wife who seems
to have been beautiful in youth and amiable always, with at least one son who observed the
Fifth Commandment to the utmost. But he lives among the immortals, and there are few names
in our present history which are of more importance to it than his.

Some of his best and least unequal work is indeed denied us. We have nothing to do with his
drama, though Turcaret is something like a masterpiece in comedy, and Crispin Rival de son
Maître a capital farce. We cannot even discuss that remarkable Théâtre de la Foire, which,
though a mere collection of the lightest Harlequinades, has more readable matter of literature
in it than the whole English comic drama since Sheridan, with the exception of the productions
of the late Sir William Gilbert.

Nor must much be said even of his minor novel work. The later translations and adaptations
from the Spanish need hardly any notice for obvious reasons; whatever is good in them being
either not his, or better exemplified in the Devil and in Gil. The extremely curious and very
Defoe-like book--almost if not quite his last--Vie et Aventures de M. de Beauchesne, Capitaine
de Flibustiers, is rather a subject for a separate essay than for even a paragraph here. But
Lesage, from our point of view, is Le Diable Boiteux and Gil Blas, and to the Diable Boiteux
and Gil Blas let us accordingly turn.

[Sidenote: Le Diable Boiteux.]

The relations of the earlier and shorter book to the Diablo Cojuelo of Luis Velez de Guevara
are among the most open secrets of literature. The Frenchman, in a sort of prefatory address
to his Spanish parent and original, has put the matter fairly enough; anybody who will take
the trouble can "control" or check the statement, by comparing the two books themselves. The
idea--the rescuing of an obliging demon from the grasp of an enchanter, and his unroofing the
houses of Madrid to amuse his liberator--is entirely Guevara's, and for a not inconsiderable
space of time the French follows the Spanish closely. But then it breaks off, and the remainder
of the book is, except for the carrying out of the general idea, practically original. The
unroofing and revealing of secrets, from being merely casual and confined to a particular neighbourhood,
becomes systematised: a lunatic asylum and a prison are subjected to the process; a set of
dreamers are obliged to deliver up what Queen Mab is doing with them; and, as an incident,
the student Don Cleofas, who has freed Asmodeus,[314] gains through the friendly spirit's means
a rich and pretty bride whom the demon--naturally immune from fire--has rescued in Cleofas's
likeness from a burning house.

[Sidenote: Lesage and Boileau.]

The thing therefore neither has, nor could possibly pretend to have, any merit as a plotted
and constructed whole in fiction. It is merely a variety of the old "framed" tale-collection,
except that the frame is of the thinnest; and the individual stories, with a few exceptions,
are extremely short, in fact little more than anecdotes. The power and attraction of the book
lie simply in the crispness of the style, the ease and flow of the narrative, and the unfailing
satiric knowledge of human nature which animates the whole. As it stands, it is double its
original length; for Lesage, finding it popular, and never being under the trammels of a fixed
design, very wisely, and for a wonder not unsuccessfully, gave it a continuation. And, except
the equally obvious and arbitrary one of the recapture of the spirit by the magician, it has
and could have no end. The most famous of the anecdotes about it is that Boileau--in 1707 a
very old man--found his page reading it, and declared that such a book and such a critic as
he should never pass a night under the same roof. Boileau, though he often said rude, unjust,
and uncritical things, did not often say merely silly ones; and it has been questioned what
was his reason for objecting to a book by no means shocking to anybody but Mrs. Grundy Grundified
to the very nth, excellently written, and quite free from the bombast and the whimsicality
which he loathed. Jealousy for Molière,[315] to whom, in virtue of Turcaret, Lesage had been
set up as a sort of rival; mere senile ill-temper, and other things have been suggested; but
the matter is of no real importance even if it is true. Boileau was one of the least catholic
and the most arbitrary critics who ever lived; he had long made up and colophoned the catalogue
of his approved library; he did not see his son's coat on the new-comer, and so he cursed him.
It is not the only occasion on which we may bless what Boileau cursed.

[Sidenote: Gil Blas--its peculiar cosmopolitanism.]

Gil Blas, of course, is in every sense a "bigger" book of literature. That it has, from the
point of view of the straitest sect of the Unitarians--and not of that sect only--much more
unity than the Diable, would require mere cheap paradox to contend. It has neither the higher
unity, say, of Hamlet, where every smallest scene and almost personage is connected with the
general theme; nor the lower unity of such a thing as Phèdre, where everything is pared down,
or, as Landor put it in his own case, "boiled off" to a meagre residuum of theme special. It
has, at the very most, that species of unity which Aristotle did not like even in epic, that
of a succession of events happening to an individual; and while most of these might be omitted,
or others substituted for them, without much or any loss, they exist without prejudice to mere
additions to themselves. As the excellent Mr. Wall, sometime Professor of Logic at Oxford,
and now with God, used to say, "Gentlemen, I can conceive an elephant," so one may conceive
a Gil Blas, not merely in five instead of four, but in fifty or five hundred volumes. But,
on the other hand, it has that still different unity (of which Aristotle does not seem to have
thought highly, even if he thought of it at all), that all these miscellaneous experiences
do not merely happen to a person with the same name--they happen to the same person.[316] And
they have themselves yet another unity, which I hardly remember any critic duly insisting on
and discussing, in the fact that they all are possibly human accidents or incidents. Though
he was a native of one of the most idiosyncratic provinces of not the least idiosyncratic country
in Europe, Lesage is a citizen not of Brittany, not of France, not of Europe even, but of the
world itself, in far more than the usual sense of cosmopolitanism. He has indeed coloured background
and costume, incident and even personage itself so deeply with essence of "things of Spain,"
that, as has been said, the Spaniards, the most jealous of all nationalities except the smaller
Celtic tribes, have claimed his work for themselves. Yet though Spain has one of the noblest
languages, one of the greatest literatures in quality if not in bulk, one of the most striking
histories, and one of the most intensely national characters in the world, it is--perhaps for
the very reason last mentioned--as little cosmopolitan as any country, and Lesage, as has been
said, is inwardly and utterly cosmopolitan or nothing.

    At Paris, at Rome, at the Hague he's at home;

and though he seems to have known little of England, and, as most Frenchmen of his time had
reason to do, to have disliked us, he has certainly never been anywhere more at home than in
London. In fact--and it bears out what has been said--there is perhaps no capital in Europe
where, in the two hundred years he has had to nationalise himself, Lesage has been less at
home than at Paris itself. The French are of course proud of him in a way, but there is hardly
one of their great writers about whom they have been less enthusiastic. The technical, and
especially the neo-classically technical, shortcomings which have been pointed out may have
had something to do with this; but the cosmopolitanism has perhaps more.

[Sidenote: And its adoption of the homme sensuel moyen fashion.]

For us Lesage occupies a position of immense importance in the history of the French novel;
but if we were writing a history of the novel at large it would scarcely be lessened, and might
even be relatively larger. He had come to it perhaps by rather strange ways; but it is no novelty
to find that conjunction of road and goal. The Spanish picaresque romance was not in itself
a very great literary kind; but it had in it a great faculty of emancipation. Outside the drama[317]
it was about the first division of literature to proclaim boldly the refusal to consider anything
human as alien from human literary interest. But, as nearly always happens, it had exaggerated
its protests, and become sordid, merely in revolt from the high-flown non-sordidness of previous
romance. Lesage took the principle and rejected the application. He dared, practically for
the first time, to take the average man of unheroic stamp, the homme sensuel moyen of a later
French phrase, for his subject. Gil Blas is not a virtuous person,[318] but he is not very
often an actual scoundrel.[319] (Is there any of us who has never been a scoundrel at all at
all?) He is clever after his fashion, but he is not a genius; he is a little bit of a coward,
but can face it out fairly at a pinch; he has some luck and ill-luck; but he does not come
in for montes et maria, either of gold or of misery. I have no doubt that the comparison of
Gil Blas and Don Quixote has often been made, and it would be rather an excursus here. But
inferior as Lesage's work is in not a few ways, it has, like other non-quintessential things,
much more virtue as model and pattern. Imitations of Don Quixote (except Graves's capital book,
where the following is of the freest character) have usually been failures. It is hardly an
extravagance to say that every novel of miscellaneous adventure since its date owes something,
directly or indirectly, to Gil Blas.

One of the "faults"--it must be understood that between "faults" with inverted commas and faults
without them there is a wide and sometimes an unbridgeable gulf--lies in the fact that the
book is after all not much more of a whole, in any sense but that noted above, than Le Diable
Boiteux itself. The innumerable incidents are to a very large extent episodes merely, and episodes
in the loose, not the precise, sense of the term. That is to say, they are not merely detachable;
they might be reattached to almost any number of other stories. But the redeeming feature--which
is very much more than a mere redeeming feature--is the personality of the hero which has been
already referred to. Lesage's scrip and staff, to apply the old images exactly enough, are
his inexhaustible fertility in well-told stories and his faculty of delineating a possible
and interesting human character.

[Sidenote: Its inequality--in the Second and Fourth Books especially.]

The characteristics of the successive parts of Gil Blas are distinct and interesting, the distinctions
themselves being also rather curious. The anecdote cited above as to the Fourth and last volume
is certainly confirmed by, and does not seem, as so many anecdotes of the kind do, to have
been even possibly drawn from, the volume itself. Although the old power is by no means gone,
the marks of its failing are pretty obvious. A glance has been given already to the unnecessary
and disgusting repetition of the Pandar business--made, as it is, more disgusting by the distinctly
tragic touch infused into it. The actual finale is, on the other hand, a good comedy ending
of a commonplace kind, except that a comic author, such as Lesage once had been on and off
the stage, would certainly have made Gil Blas suffer in his second marriage for his misdeeds
of various kinds earlier, instead of leaving him in the not too clean cotton or clover of an
old rip with a good young wife. If he had wanted a happy ending of a still conventional but
satisfactory kind, he should have married Gil to Laure or Estelle (they were, in modern slang,
sufficiently "shop-worn goods" not to be ill-mated, and Laure is perhaps the most attractive
character in the whole book); have legitimated Lucrèce, as by some odd crotchet he definitely
refuses to do;[320] have dropped the later Leporello business, in which his old love and her
daughter are concerned, altogether, and have left us in a mild sunset of "reconciliation."
If anybody scorns this suggestion as evidence of a futile liking for "rose-pink," let him remember
that Gil Blas, ci-devant picaro and other ugly things, is actually left lapped in an Elysium
not less improbable and much more undeserved than this. But it is disagreeable to dwell on
the shortcomings of age, and it has only been done to show that this is a criticism and not
a mere panegyric.

Oddly enough, the Second volume is also open to much exception of something, though not quite,
the same kind; it seems as if Lesage, after making strong running, had a habit of nursing himself
and even going to sleep for a while. The more than questionable habit of histoire-insertions
revives; that of the rascal-hermit picaro, "Don Raphael," is, as the author admits, rather
long, and, as he might have admitted, and as any one else may be allowed to say, very tiresome.
Gil Blas himself goes through a long period of occultation, and the whole rather drags.

The First and the Third are the pillars of the house; and the Third, though (with the exception
of the episode of the Archbishop, and that eternal sentence governing the relations of author
and critic that "the homily which has the misfortune not to be approved" by the one is the
very best ever produced by the other) not so well known, is perhaps even better than anything
in the First. But the later part has, of course, not quite so much freshness; and nobody need
want anything better than the successive scenes, slightly glanced at already, in which Gil
Blas is taught, by no means finally,[321] the ways of the world; the pure adventure interest
of the robbers' cave, so admirably managed and so little over-dwelt on; the experiences of
travel and of the capital; the vivid pictures of petit maître and actress life; the double
deception--thoroughly Spanish this, but most freshly and universally handled--by Laure and
Gil; many other well-known things; all deserve the knowledge and the admiration that they have
won. But the Third, in which the hero is hardly ever off the scene from first to last, is my
own favourite. He shows himself--not at his best, but humanly enough--in the affair with the
ill-fated Lorença, on which the Leyva family might have looked less excusingly if the culprit
had been anybody but Gil. The Granada scenes, however, and not by any means merely those with
the Archbishop, are of the very first class; and the reappearance of Laure, with the admirable
coolness by which she hoodwinks her "keeper" Marialva, yields to nothing in the book. For fifty
pages it is all novel-gold; and though Gil Blas, in decamping from the place, and leaving Laure
to bear the brunt of a possible discovery, commits one of his least heroic deeds, it is so
characteristic that one forgives, not indeed him, but his creator. The whole of the Lerma part
is excellent and not in the least improbably impossible; there is infinitely more "human natur'"
in it, as Marryat's waterman would have said, than in the réchauffé of the situation with Olivares.

[Sidenote: Lesage's quality--not requiring many words, but indisputable.]

The effect indeed which is produced, in re-reading, by Le Diable Boiteux and Gil Blas, but
especially by the latter, is of that especial kind which is a sort of "a posteriori intuition,"
if such a phrase may be permitted, of "classical" quality.[322] This sensation, which appears,
unfortunately, to be unknown to a great many people, is sometimes set down by the more critical
or, let us say, the more censorious of them, to a sort of childish prepossession--akin to that
which makes a not ill-conditioned child fail to discover any uncomeliness in his mother's or
a favourite nurse's face. There is no retort to such a proposition as this so proper as the
argument not ad hominem, but ab or ex homine. The present writer did not read the Devil till
he had reached quite critical years; and though he read Gil Blas much earlier, he was not (for
what reason he cannot say) particularly fond of it until the same period was reached. And yet
its attractions cannot possibly be said to be of any recondite or artificial kind, and its
defects are likely to be more, not less, recognised as the critical faculty acquires strength
and practice. Nevertheless, recent reperusal has made him more conscious than ever of the existence
of this quality of a classic in both, but especially in the larger and more famous book. And
this is a mere pailful added to an ocean of previous and more important testimony. Gil Blas
has certainly "classed" itself in the most various instances, of essentially critical, not
specially critical but generally acute and appreciative, and more or less unsophisticated and
ordinary judgments, as a thing that is past all question, equally enjoyable for its incidents,
its character-sketches, and its phrasing--though the first are (for time and country) in no
sense out of the way, the second scarcely go beyond the individualised type, and the third
is neither gorgeous nor "alambicated," as the French say, nor in any way peculiar, except for
its saturation with a sharp, shrewd, salt wit which may be described as the spirit of the popular
proverb, somehow bodied and clothed with more purely literary form. It is true that, in the
last few clauses, plenty of ground has been indicated for ascription of classicality in the
best sense; and perhaps Lesage himself has summed the whole thing up when, in the "Declaration"
of the author at the beginning of Gil Blas, he claims "to have set before himself only the
representation of human life as it is." He has said it; and in saying and doing it he has said
and done everything for his merits as a novelist and his place in the history of the novel.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Marivaux--Les Effets de la Sympathie (?)]

The Archbishop of Sens, who had the duty of "answering" Marivaux's "discourse of reception"
into the Academy in the usual aigre-doux manner, informed him, with Academic frankness and
Archiepiscopal propriety, that "in the small part of your work which I have run through, I
soon recognised that the reading of these agreeable romances did not suit the austere dignity
with which I am invested, or the purity of the ideas which religion prescribes me." This was
all in the game, both for an Academician and for an Archbishop, and it probably did not discompose
the novelist much. But if his Grace had read Les Effets de la Sympathie, and had chosen to
criticise it, he might have made its author (always supposing that Marivaux was its author,
which does not seem to be at all certain) much more uncomfortable. Although there is plenty
of incident, it is but a dull book, and it contains not a trace of "Marivaudage" in style.
A hero's father, who dies of poison in the first few pages, and is shown to have been brought
round by an obliging gaoler in the last few; a hero himself, who thinks he has fallen in love
with a beautiful and rich widow, playing good Samaritaness to him after he has fallen in among
thieves, but a page or two later really does fall in love with a fair unknown looking languishingly
out of a window; a corsaire,[323] with the appropriate name of Turcamène, who is robustious
almost from the very beginning, and receives at the end a fatal stab with his own poniard from
the superfluous widow, herself also fatally wounded at the same moment by the same weapon (an
economy of time, incident, and munitions uncommon off the stage); an intermediate personage
who, straying--without any earthly business there--into one of those park "pavilions" which
play so large a part in these romances, finds a lady asleep on the sofa, with her hand invitingly
dropped, promptly kneels down, and kisses it: these and many other things fill up a Spanish
kind of story, not uningeniously though rather improbably engineered, but dependent for its
interest almost wholly on incident; for though it is not devoid of conversation, this conversation
is without spirit or sparkle. It is, in fact, a "circulating library" novel before--at any
rate at an early period of--circulating libraries: not unworkmanlike, probably not very unsatisfactory
to its actual readers, and something of a document as to the kind of satisfaction they demanded;
but not intrinsically important.

One has not seen much, in English,[324] about Marivaux, despite the existence, in French, of
one of the best[325] of those monographs which assist the foreign critic so much, and sometimes
perhaps help to beget his own lucubrations. Yet he is one of the most interesting writers of
France, one of the most curious, and, one may almost say, one of the most puzzling. This latter
quality he owes, in part at least, to a "skiey influence" of the time, which he shares with
Lesage and Prévost, and indeed to some extent with most French writers of the eighteenth century--the
influence of the polygraphic habit.

[Sidenote: His work in general.]

He was a dramatist, and a voluminous one, long before he was a novelist: and some of his thirty
or forty plays, especially Les Fausses Confidences and Le Jeu de l'Amour et du Hasard, still
rank among at least the second-class classics of the French comic stage. He tried, for a time,
one of the worst kinds of merely fashionable literature, the travesty-burlesque.[326] He was
a journalist, following Addison openly in the title, and to some extent in the manner, of Le
Spectateur, which he afterwards followed by Le Cabinet d'un Philosophe, showing, however, here,
as he was more specially tempted to do, his curious, and it would seem unconquerable, habit
of leaving things unfinished, which only does not appear in his plays, for the simple and obvious
reason that managers will not put an unfinished play on the stage, and that, if they did, the
afterpiece would be premature and of a very lively character. But the completeness of his very
plays is incomplete; they "run huddling" to their conclusion, and are rather bundles of good
or not so good acts and scenes than entire dramas. We are, however, only concerned with the
stories, of which there are three: the early, complete, but doubtful Effets de la Sympathie,
already discussed; the central in every way, but endlessly dawdled over, Marianne, which never
got finished at all (though Mme. Riccoboni continued it in Marivaux's own lifetime, and with
his placid approval, and somebody afterwards botched a clumsy Fin); and Le Paysan Parvenu,
the latter part of which is not likely to be genuine, and, even if so, is not a real conclusion.
We may, however, with some, advantage, take it before Marianne, if only because it is not the
book generally connected with its author's name.

[Sidenote: Le Paysan Parvenu.]

Notwithstanding this comparative oblivion, Le Paysan Parvenu is an almost astonishingly clever
and original book, at least as far as the five of its eight parts, which are certainly Marivaux's,
go. I have read the three last twice critically, at a long interval of time, and I feel sure
that the positive internal evidence confirms, against their authenticity, the negative want
of external for it. In any case they add nothing--they do not, as has been said, even really
"conclude"--and we may, therefore, without any more apology, confine ourselves to the part
which is certain. Some readers may possibly know that when that strangest of strange persons,
Restif de la Bretonne (see the last chapter of this book), took up the title with the slight
change or gloss of Parvenu to Perverti, he was at least partly actuated by his own very peculiar,
but distinctly existing, variety of moral indignation. And though Pierre Carlet (which was
Marivaux's real name) and "Monsieur Nicolas" (which was as near a real name as any that Restif
had) were, the one a quite respectable person on ordinary standards, and the other an infinitely
disreputable creature, still the later novelist was perhaps ethically justified. Marivaux's
successful rustic does not, so far as we are told, actually do anything that contravenes popular
morality, though he is more than once on the point of doing so. He is not a bad-blooded person
either; and he has nothing of the wild-beast element in the French peasantry which history
shows us from the Jacquerie to the Revolution, and which some folk try to excuse as the result
of aristocratic tyranny. But he is an elaborate and exceedingly able portrait of another side
of the peasant, and, if we may trust literature, even with some administration of salt, of
the French peasant more particularly. He is what we may perhaps be allowed to call unconsciously
determined to get on, though he does not go quite to the length of the quocunque modo, and
has, as far as men are concerned, some scruples. But in relation to the other sex he has few
if any, though he is never brutal. He is, as we may say, first "perverted," though not as yet
parvenu,[327] in the house of a Parisian, himself a nouveau riche and novus homo, on whose
property in Champagne his own father is a wine-farmer. He is early selected for the beginnings
of Lady-Booby-like attentions by "Madame," while he, as far as he is capable of the proceeding,
falls in love with one of Madame's maids, Geneviève. It does not appear that, if the lady's
part of the matter had gone further, Jacob (that is his name) would have been at all like Joseph.
But when he finds that the maid is also the object of "Monsieur's" attentions, and when he
is asked to take the profits of this affair (the attitude[328] of the girl herself is very
skilfully delineated) and marry her, his own point d'honneur is reached.[329] Everything is,
however, cut short by the sudden death, in hopelessly embarrassed circumstances, of Monsieur,
and the consequent cessation of Madame's attraction for a young man who wishes to better himself.
He leaves both her and Geneviève with perfect nonchalance; though he has good reason for believing
that the girl really loves him, however she may have made a peculiar sort of hay when the sun
shone, and that both she and his lady are penniless, or almost so.

He has, however, the luck which makes the parvenu, if in this instance he can hardly be said
to deserve it. On the Pont Neuf he sees an elderly lady, apparently about to swoon. He supports
her home, and finds that she is the younger and more attractive of two old-maid and dévote
sisters. The irresistibleness to this class of the feminine sex (and indeed by no means to
this class only) of a strapping and handsome footman is a commonplace of satire with eighteenth-century
writers, both French and English. It is exercised possibly on both sisters, though the elder
is a shrew; certainly on the younger, and also on their elderly bonne, Catherine. But it necessarily
leads to trouble. The younger, Mlle. Habert (the curious hiding of Christian names reappears
here), wants to retain Jacob in the joint service, and Catherine at least makes no objection,
for obvious reasons. But the elder sister recalcitrates violently, summoning to her aid her
"director," and the younger, who is financially independent,[330] determines to leave the house.
She does so (not taking Catherine with her, though the bonne would willingly have shared Jacob's
society), and having secured lodgings, regularly proposes to her (the word may be used almost
accurately) "swain." Jacob has no scruples of delicacy here, though the nymph is thirty years
older than himself, and though he has, if no dislike, no particular affection for her. But
it is an obvious step upwards, and he makes no difficulties. The elder sister, however, makes
strong efforts to forbid the banns, and her interest prevails on a "President" (the half-regular
power of the French noblesse de robe, though perhaps less violently exercised, must have been
almost as galling as the irresponsibleness of men of birth and "sword") to interpose and actually
stop the arranged ceremony. But Jacob appears in person, and states his case convincingly;
the obstacle is removed, and the pair are made happy at an extraordinary hour (two or three
in the morning), which seems to have been then fashionable for marriages. The conventional
phrase is fairly justified; for the bride is completely satisfied, and Jacob is not displeased.

His marriage, however, interferes not in the very least with his intention to "get on" by dint
of his handsome face and brawny figure. On the very day of his wedding he goes to visit a lady
of position, and also of devoutness, who is a great friend of the President and his wife, has
been present at the irregular enquiry, and has done something for him. This quickly results
in a regular assignation, which, however, is comically broken off. Moreover this lady introduces
him to another of the same temperament--which indeed seems to have been common with French
ladies (the Bellaston type being not the exception, but the rule). She is to introduce him
to her brother-in-law, an influential financier, and she quickly makes plain the kind of gratitude
she expects. This also is, as far as we are told, rather comically interfered with--Marivaux's
dramatic practice made him good at these disappointments. She does give the introduction, and
her brother-in-law, though a curmudgeon, is at first disposed to honour her draft. But here
an unexpected change is made by the presentation of Jacob as a man of noble sentiment. The
place he is to have is one taken from an invalid holder of it, whose wife comes to beg mercy:
whereat Jacob, magnanimously and to the financier's great wrath, declines to profit by another's
misfortune. Whether the fact that the lady is very pretty has anything to do with the matter
need not be discussed. His--let us call it at least--good nature, however, indirectly makes
his fortune. Going to visit the husband and wife whom he has obliged, he sees a young man attacked
by three enemies and ill-bested. Jacob (who is no coward, and, thanks to his wife insisting
on his being a gentleman and "M. de la Vallée," has a sword) draws and uses it on the weaker
side, with no skill whatever, but in the downright, swash-and-stab, short- and tall-sailor
fashion, which (in novels at least) is almost always effective. The assailants decamp, and
the wounded but rescued person, who is of very high rank, conceives a strong friendship for
his rescuer, and, as was said above, makes his fortune. The last and doubtful three-eighths
of the book kill off poor Mlle. Habert (who, although Jacob would never have been unkind to
her, was already beginning to be very jealous and by no means happy), and marry him again to
a younger lady of rank, beauty, fashion, and fortune, in the imparted possession of all of
which we leave him. But, except to the insatiables of "what happened next," these parts are
as questionably important as they are decidedly doubtful.

The really important points of the book are, in the first place, the ease and narrative skill
with which the story is told in the difficult form of autobiography, and, secondly, the vivacity
of the characters. Jacob himself is, as will have been seen already, a piebald sort of personage,
entirely devoid of scruple in some ways, but not ill-natured, and with his own points of honour.
He is perfectly natural, and so are all the others (not half of whom have been mentioned) as
far as they go. The cross sister and the "kind" one; the false prude and false devoté Mme.
de Ferval, and the jolly, reckless, rather coarse Mme. de Fécour; the tyrannical, corrupt,
and licentious financier, with others more slightly drawn, are seldom, if ever, out of drawing.
The contemporary wash of colour passes, as it should, into something "fast"; you are in the
Paris of the Regency, but you are at the same time in general human time and place, if not
in eternity and infinity.

[Sidenote: Marianne--outline of the story.]

The general selection, however, of Marianne as Marivaux's masterpiece is undoubtedly right,
though in more ways than one it has less engaging power than the Paysan, and forebodes to some
extent, if it does not actually display, the boring qualities which novels of combined analysis
and jargon have developed since. The opening is odd: the author having apparently transplanted
to the beginning of a novel the promiscuous slaughter with which we are familiar at the end
of a play. Marianne (let us hail the appearance of a Christian-named heroine at last), a small
child of the tenderest years, is, with the exception of an ecclesiastic, who takes to his heels
and gets off, the sole survivor of a coachful of travellers who are butchered by a gang of
footpads,[331] because two of the passengers have rashly endeavoured to defend themselves.
Nothing can be found out about the child--an initial improbability, for the party has consisted
of father, mother, and servants, as well as Marianne. But the good curé of the place and his
sister take charge of her, and bring her up carefully (they are themselves "gentle-people,"
as the good old phrase, now doubtless difficult of application, went) till she is fifteen,
is very pretty, and evidently must be disposed of in some way, for her guardians are poor and
have no influential relations. The sister, however, takes her to Paris--whither she herself
goes to secure, if possible, the succession of a relative--to try to obtain some situation.
But the inheritance proves illusory; the sister falls ill at Paris and dies there; while the
brother is disabled, and his living has to be, if not transferred to, provided with, a substitute.
This second massacre (for the brother dies soon) provides Marivaux with the situation he requires--that
of a pretty girl, alone in the capital, and absolutely unfriended. Fortunately a benevolent
Director knows a pious gentleman, M. de Climal, who is fond of doing good, and also, as it
appears shortly by the story, of pretty girls. Marianne, with the earliest touch of distinct
"snobbishness"--let it be proudly pointed out that the example is not English,[332]--declines
to go into service, but does not so much mind being a shop-girl, and M. de Climal establishes
her with his lingère, a certain Mme. Dutour.

This good lady is no procuress, but her morals are of a somewhat accommodating kind, and she
sets to work, experiencing very little difficulty in the process, to remove Marianne's scruples
about accepting presents from M. de Climal--pointing out, very logically, that there is no
obligation to (as Chesterfield put it not long after) payer de sa personne; though she is naturally
somewhat disgusted when the gifts take the form of handsome lingerie bought at another shop.
When this, and a dress to match, are made up, Marianne as naturally goes to church to show
them: and indulges in very shrewd if not particularly amiable remarks on her "even-Christians"--a
delightful English archaism, which surely needs no apology for its revival. Coming out, she
slips and sprains her ankle, whereupon, still naturally, appears the inevitable young man,
a M. de Valville, who, after endless amicable wrangling, procures her a coach, but not without
an awkward meeting. For M. de Valville turns out to be the nephew of M. de Climal; and the
uncle, with a lady, comes upon the nephew and Marianne; while, a little later, each finds the
other in turn at the girl's feet. Result: of course more than suspicion on the younger man's
part, and a mixture of wrath and desire to hurry matters on the elder's. He offers Marianne
a regular (or irregular) "establishment" at a dependent's of his own, with a small income settled
upon her, etc. She refuses indignantly, the indignation being rather suspiciously divided between
her two lovers; is "planted there" by the old sinner Climal, and of course requested to leave
by Mme. Dutour; returns all the presents, much to her landlady's disgust, and once more seeks,
though in a different mood, the shelter of the Church. Her old helper the priest for some time
absolutely declines to admit the notion of Climal's rascality; but fortunately a charitable
lady is more favourable, and Marianne gets taken in as a pensionnaire at a convent. Climal,
whose sister and Valville's mother the lady turns out to be, falls ill, repents, confesses,
and leaves Marianne a comfortable annuity. Union with Valville is not opposed by the mother;
but other members of the family are less obliging, and Valville himself wanders after an English
girl of a Jacobite exiled family, Miss Warton (Varthon). The story then waters itself out,
before suddenly collapsing, with a huge and uninteresting Histoire d'une Religieuse. Whereat
some folk may grumble; but others, more philosophically, may be satisfied, in no uncomplimentary
sense, without hearing what finally made Marianne Countess of Three Stars, or indeed knowing
any more of her actual history.

For in fact the entire interest of Marianne is concentrated in and on Marianne herself, and
the fact that this is so at once makes continuation superfluous, and gives the novel its place
in the history of fiction. We have quite enough, as it is, to show us--as the Princess Augusta
said to Fanny Burney of the ill-starred last of French "Mesdames Royales"--"what sort of a
girl she is." And her biographer has made her a very interesting sort of girl, and himself
in making her so, a very interesting, and almost entirely novel, sort of novelist. To say that
she is a wholly attractive character would be entirely false, except from the point of view
of the pure student of art. She is technically virtuous, which is, of course, greatly to her
credit.[333] She is not bad-blooded, but if there were such a word as "good-blooded" it could
hardly be applied to her. With all her preserving borax- or formalin-like touch of "good form,"
she is something of a minx. She is vain, selfish--in fact wrapped up in self--without any sense
of other than technical honour. But she is very pretty (which covers a multitude of sins),
and she is really clever.

[Sidenote: Importance of Marianne herself.]

Yet the question at issue is not whether one can approve of Marianne, nor whether one can like
her, nor even whether, approving and liking her or not, one could fall in love with her "for
her comely face and for her fair bodie," as King Honour did in the ballad, and as homo rationalis
usually, though not invariably, does fall in love. The question is whether Marivaux has, in
her, created a live girl, and to what extent he has mastered the details of his creation. The
only critical answer, I think, must be that he has created such a girl, and that he has not
left her a mere outline or type, but has furnished the house as well as built it. She is, in
the particular meaning on which Mr. Hardy's defenders insist, as "pure" a "woman" as Tess herself.
And if there is a good deal missing from her which fortunately some women have, there is nothing
in her which some women have not, and not so very much which the majority of women have not,
in this or that degree. It is difficult not to smile when one compares her quintessence with
the complicated and elusive caricatures of womanhood which some modern novel-writers--noisily
hailed as gynosophists--have put together, and been complimented on putting together. What
is more, she is perhaps the first nearly complete character of the kind that had been presented
in novel at her date. This is a great thing to say for Marivaux, and it can be said without
the slightest fear of inability to support the saying.[334]

[Sidenote: Marivaux and Richardson--"Marivaudage."]

Although, therefore, we may not care much to enter into calculations as to the details of the
indebtedness of Richardson to Marivaux, some approximations of the two, for critical purposes,
may be useful. One may even see, without too much folly of the Thaumast kind, an explanation,
beyond that of mere idleness, in the Frenchman's inveterate habit of not completing. He did
not want you to read him "for the story"; and therefore he cared little for the story itself,
and nothing at all for the technical finishing of it. The stories of both his characteristic
novels are, as has been fairly shown, of the very thinnest. What he did want to do was to analyse
and "display," in a half-technical sense of that word, his characters; and he did this as no
man had done before him, and as few have done since, though many, quite ignorant of their indebtedness,
have taken the method from him indirectly. In the second place, his combination of method and
phrase is for infinite thoughts. This combination is not necessary; there is, to take up the
comparative line, nothing of it in Richardson, nothing in Fielding, nothing in Thackeray. A
few French eighteenth-century writers have it in direct imitation of Marivaux himself; but
it dies out in France, and in the greatest novel-period there is nothing of it. It revives
in the later nineteenth century, especially with us, and, curiously enough, if we look back
to the beginnings of Romance in Greek, there is a good deal there, the crown and flower being,
as has been before remarked, in Eustathius Macrembolita, but something being noticeable in
earlier folk, especially Achilles Tatius, and the trick having evidently come from those rhetoricians[335]
of whose class the romancers were a kind of offshoot. It is, however, only fair to say that,
if Marivaux thought in intricate and sometimes startling ways, his actual expression is never
obscure. It is a maze, but a maze with an unbroken clue of speech guiding you through it.[336]

[Sidenote: Examples:--Marianne on the physique and moral of Prioresses and Nuns.]

A few examples of method and style may now be given. Here is Marianne's criticism--rather uncannily
shrewd and very characteristic both of her subject and of herself--of that peculiar placid
plumpness which has been observed by the profane in devout persons, especially in the Roman
Church and in certain dissenting sects (Anglicanism does not seem to be so favourable to it),
and in "persons of religion" (in the technical sense) most of all.

     This Prioress was a short little person, round and white,
     with a double chin, and a complexion at once fresh and
     placid. You never see faces like that in worldly persons: it
     is a kind of embonpoint quite different from others--one
     which has been formed more quietly and more
     methodically--that is to say, something into which there
     enters more art, more fashioning, nay, more self-love, than
     into that of such as we.[337]

     As a rule, it is either temperament, or feeding, or laziness
     and luxury, which give us such of it as we have. But in
     order to acquire the kind of which I am speaking, it is
     necessary to have given oneself up with a saintlike
     earnestness to the task. It can only be the result of
     delicate, loving, and devout attention to the comfort and
     well-being of the body. It shows not only that life--and a
     healthy life--is an object of desire, but that it is wanted
     soft, undisturbed, and dainty; and that, while enjoying the
     pleasures of good health, the person enjoying it bestows on
     herself all the pettings and the privileges of a perpetual
     convalescence.

     Also this religious plumpness is different in outward form
     from ours, which is profane of aspect; it does not so much
     make a face fat, as it makes it grave and decent; and so it
     gives the countenance an air, not so much joyous, as
     tranquil and contented.

     Further, when you look at these good ladies, you find in
     them an affable exterior; but perhaps, for all that, an
     interior indifference. Their faces, and not their souls,
     give you sympathy and tenderness; they are comely images,
     which seem to possess sensibility, and which yet have merely
     a surface of kindness and sentiment.[338]

Acute as this is, it may be said to be somewhat displaced--though it must be remembered that
it is the Marianne of fifty, "Mme. la Comtesse de * * *," who is supposed to be writing, not
the Marianne of fifteen. No such objection can be taken to what follows.

[She is, after the breach with Climal, and after Valville has earlier discovered his wicked
uncle on his knees before her, packing up the--well! not wages of iniquity, but baits for it--to
send back to the giver. A little "cutting" may be made.]

[Sidenote: She returns the gift-clothes.]

     Thereupon I opened my trunk to take out first the newly
     bought linen. "Yes, M. de Valville, yes!" said I, pulling it
     out, "you shall learn to know me and to think of me as you
     ought." This thought spurred me on, so that, without my
     exactly thinking of it, it was rather to him than to his
     uncle that I was returning the whole, all the more so that
     the return of linen, dress, and money, with a note I should
     write, could not fail to disabuse Valville, and make him
     regret the loss of me. He had seemed to me to possess a
     generous soul; and I applauded myself beforehand on the
     sorrow which he would feel at having treated so
     outrageously a girl so worthy of respectful treatment as I
     was--for I saw in myself, confessedly, I don't know how many
     titles to respect.

     In the first place I put my bad luck, which was unique; to
     add to this bad luck I had virtue, and they went so well
     together! Then I was young, and on the top of it all I was
     pretty, and what more do you want? If I had arranged matters
     designedly to render myself an object of sympathy, to make a
     generous lover sigh at having maltreated me, I could not
     have succeeded better; and, provided I hurt Valville's
     feelings, I was satisfied. My little plan was never to see
     him again in my lifetime; and this seemed to me a very fair
     and proud one; for I loved him, and I was even very glad to
     have loved him, because he had perceived my love, and,
     seeing me break with him, notwithstanding, would see also
     what a heart he had had to do with.

The little person goes on very delectably describing the packing, and how she grudged getting
rid of the pretty things, and at last sighed and wept--whether for herself, or Valville, or
the beautiful gown, she didn't know. But, alas! there is no more room, except to salute her
as the agreeable ancestress of all the beloved coquettes and piquant minxes in prose fiction
since. Could anything handsomer be said of her creator?

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Prévost.]

[Sidenote: His minor novels--the opinions on them of Sainte-Beuve.]

[Sidenote: And of Planche.]

It is, though an absolute and stereotyped commonplace, an almost equally absolute necessity,
to begin any notice of the Abbé Prévost by remarking that nothing of his voluminous work is
now, or has been for a long time, read, except Manon Lescaut. It may be added, though one is
here repeating predecessors to not quite the same extent, that nothing else of his, in fiction
at least, is worth reading. The faithful few who do not dislike old criticism may indeed turn
over his Le Pour et [le] Contre not without reward. But his historical and other compilations[339]--his
total production in volumes is said to run over the hundred, and the standard edition of his
Oeuvres Choisies extends to thirty-nine not small ones--are admittedly worthless. As to his
minor novels--if one may use that term, albeit they are as major in bulk as they are minor
in merit--opinions of importance, and presumably founded on actual knowledge, have differed
somewhat strangely. Sainte-Beuve made something of a fight for them, but it was the Sainte-Beuve
of almost the earliest years (1831), when, according to a weakness of beginners in criticism,
he was a little inclined "to be different," for the sake of difference. Against Cléveland even
he lifts up his heel, though in a rather unfortunate manner, declaring the reading of the greater
part to be "aussi fade que celle d'Amadis." Now to some of us the reading of Amadis is not
"fade" at all. But he finds some philosophical and psychological passages of merit. Over the
Mémoires d'un Homme de Qualité--that huge and unwieldy galleon to which the frail shallop of
Manon was originally attached, and which has long been stranded on the reefs of oblivion, while
its fly-boat sails for ever more--he is quite enthusiastic, finds it, though with a certain
relativity, "natural," "frank," and "well-preserved," gives it a long analysis, actually discovers
in it "an inexpressible savour" surpassing modern "local colour," and thinks the handling of
it comparable in some respects to that of The Vicar of Wakefield! The Doyen de Killérine--the
third of Prévost's long books--is "infinitely agreeable," "si l'on y met un peu de complaisance."
(The Sainte-Beuve of later years would have noticed that an infinity which has to be made infinite
by a little complaisance is curiously finite). The later and shorter Histoire d'une Grecque
moderne is a joli roman, and gracieux, though it is not so charming and subtle as Crébillon
fils would have made it, and is "knocked off rather haphazardly." Another critic of 1830, now
perhaps too much forgotten, Gustave Planche, does not mention the Grecque, and brushes aside
the three earlier and bigger books rather hastily, though he allows "interest" to both Cléveland
and the Doyen. Perhaps, before "coming to real things" (as Balzac once said of his own work)
in Manon, some remarks, not long, but first-hand, and based on actual reading at more than
one time of life, as to her very unreal family, may be permitted here, though they may differ
in opinion from the judgment of these two redoubtable critics.

[Sidenote: The books themselves--Histoire d'une Grecque Moderne.]

I do not think that when I first wrote about Prévost (I had read Manon long before) more than
thirty years ago, in a Short History of French Literature, I paid very much attention to these
books. I evidently had not read the Grecque Moderne, for I said nothing about it. Of the others
I said only that they are "romances of adventure, occupying a middle place between those of
Lesage and Marivaux." It is perfectly true, but of course not very "in-going," and whatever
reading I then gave any of them had not left very much impression on my mind, when recently,
and for the purpose of the present work, I took them up again, and the Histoire as well. This
last is the story of a young modern Greek slave named Théophé (a form of which the last syllable
seems more modern than Greek), who is made visible in full harem by her particularly complaisant
master, a Turkish pasha, to a young Frenchman, admired and bought by this Frenchman (the relater
of the story), and freed by him. He does not at first think of making her his mistress, but
later does propose it, only to meet a refusal of a somewhat sentimental-romantic character,
though she protests not merely gratitude, but love for him. The latter part of the book is
occupied by what Sainte-Beuve calls "delicate" ambiguities, which leave us in doubt whether
her "cruelty" is shown to others as well, or whether it is not. In suggesting that Crébillon
would have made it charming, the great critic has perhaps made another of those slips which
show the novitiate. The fact is that it is an exceedingly dull book: and that to have made
it anything else, while retaining anything like its present "propriety," either an entire metamorphosis
of spirit, which might have made it as passionate as Manon itself, or the sort of filigree
play with thought and phrase which Marivaux would have given, would be required. As a "Crébillonnade"
(v. inf.) it might have been both pleasant and subtle, but it could only have been made so
by becoming exceedingly indecent.

[Sidenote: Cléveland.]

Still, its comparative (though only comparative) shortness, and a certain possibility rather
than actuality of interest in the situation,[340] may recommend this novel at least to mercy.
If the present writer were on a jury trying Cléveland, no want of food or fire should induce
him to endorse any such recommendation in regard to that intolerable book. It is, to speak
frankly, one of the very few books--one of the still fewer novels--which I have found it practically
impossible to read even in the "skim and skip and dip" fashion which should, no doubt, be only
practised as a work of necessity (i.e. duty to others) and of mercy (to oneself) on extraordinary
occasions, but which nobody but a prig and a pedant will absolutely disallow. Almost the only
good thing I can find to say about it is that Prévost, who lived indeed for some time in England,
is now and then, if not always, miraculously correct in his proper names. He can actually spell
Hammersmith! Other merit--and this is not constant (in the dips which I have actually made,
to rise exhausted from each, and skip rather than even skim to the rest)--I can find none.
The beginning is absurd and rather offensive, the hero being a natural son of Cromwell by a
woman who has previously been the mistress of Charles I. The continuation is a mish-mash of
adventure, sometimes sanguinary, but never exciting, travel (in fancy parts of the West Indies,
etc.), and the philosophical disputations which Sainte-Beuve found interesting. As for the
end, no two persons seem quite agreed what is the end. Sainte-Beuve speaks of it as an attempted
suicide of the hero--the most justifiable of all his actions, if he had succeeded. Prévost
himself, in the Preface to the Doyen de Killérine, repeats an earlier disavowal (which he says
he had previously made in Holland) of a fifth volume, and says that his own work ended with
the murder of Cléveland by one of the characters. Again, this is a comprehensible and almost
excusable action, and might have followed, though it could not have preceded, the other. But
if it was the end, the other was not. A certain kind of critic may say that it is my duty to
search and argue this out. But, for my part, I say as a reader to Cléveland, "No more in thee
my steps shall be, For ever and for ever."[341]

[Sidenote: Le Doyen de Killérine.]

Le Doyen de Killérine is not perhaps so utterly to be excommunicated as Cléveland, and, as
has been said above, some have found real interest in it. It is not, however, free either from
the preposterousness or from the dulness of the earlier book, though the first characteristic
is less preposterous as such preposterousness goes. The Dean of Killérine (Coleraine) is a
Roman Catholic dean, just after the expulsion of James II., when, we learn with some surprise,
that neighbourhood was rather specially full of his co-religionists. He is a sort of lusus
naturae, being bow-legged, humpbacked, potbellied, and possessing warts on his brows, which
make him a sort of later horned Moses. The eccentricity of his appearance is equalled by that
of his conduct. He is the eldest son of an Irish gentleman (nobleman, it would sometimes seem),
and his father finds a pretty girl who is somehow willing to marry him. But, feeling no vocation
for marriage, he suggests to her (a suggestion perhaps unique in fiction if not in fact) that
she should marry his father instead. This singular match comes off, and a second family results,
the members of which are, fortunately, not lusus naturae, but a brace of very handsome and
accomplished boys, George and Patrick, and an extremely pretty girl, Rosa. Of these three,
their parents dying when they are something short of full age, the excellent dean becomes a
sort of guardian. He takes them to the exiled court of Versailles, and his very hen-like anxieties
over the escapades of these most lively ducklings supply the main subject of the book. It might
have been made amusing by humorous treatment, but Prévost had no humour in him: and it might
have been made thrilling by passion, but he never, except in the one great little instance,
compressed or distilled his heaps and floods of sensibility and sensationalism into that. The
scene where a wicked Mme. de S---- plays, and almost outplays, Potiphar's wife to the good
but hideous Dean's Joseph is one of the most curious in novel-literature, though one of the
least amusing.

[Sidenote: The Mémoires d'un Homme de Qualité.]

We may now go back to the Mémoires, partly in compliment to the master of all mid-nineteenth-century
critics, but more because of their almost fortuitous good luck in ushering Manon into the world.
There is something in them of both their successors, Cléveland and the Doyen, but it may be
admitted that they are less unreadable than the first, and less trivial than the second. The
plan--if it deserve that name--is odd, one marquis first telling his own fortunes and voyages
and whatnots, and then serving as Mentor (the application, though of course not original, is
inevitable) to another marquis in further voyages and adventures. There are Turkish brides
and Spanish murdered damsels; English politics and literature, where, unfortunately, the spelling
does sometimes break down; glances backward, in "Histoires" of the Grand Siècle, at meetings
with Charles de Sévigné, Racine, etc.; mysterious remedies, a great deal of moralising, and
a great deal more of weeping. Indeed the whole of Prévost, like the whole of that "Sensibility
Novel" of which he is a considerable though rather an outside practitioner, is pervaded with
a gentle rain of tears wherein the personages seem to revel--indeed admit that they do so--in
the midst of their woes.

[Sidenote: Its miscellaneous curiosities.]

On the whole, however, the youthful--or almost youthful--half-wisdom of Sainte-Beuve is better
justified of its preference for the Mémoires than of other things in the same article. I found
it, reading it later on purpose and with "preventions" rather the other way, very much more
readable than any of its companions (Manon is not its companion, but in a way its constituent),
without being exactly readable simpliciter. All sorts of curious things might be dug out of
it: for instance, quite at the beginning, a more definite declaration than I know elsewhere
of that curious French title-system which has always been such a puzzle to Englishmen. "Il
se fit appeler le Comte de ... et, se voyant un fils, il lui donna celui de Marquis de ..."
There is a good deal in it which makes us think that Prévost had read Defoe, and something
which makes it not extravagant to fancy that Thackeray had read Prévost. But once more "let
us come to the real things--let us speak of" Manon Lescaut.

[Sidenote: Manon Lescaut.]

[Sidenote: Its uniqueness.]

It would be a very interesting question in that study of literature--rather unacademic, or
perhaps academic in the best sense only--which might be so near and is so far--whether the
man is most to be envied who reads Manon Lescaut for the first time in blissful ignorance of
these other things, and even of what has been said of them; or he who has, by accident or design,
toiled through the twenty volumes of the others and comes upon Her. My own case is the former:
and I am far from quarrelling with it. But I sometimes like to fancy--now that I have reversed
the proceeding--what it would have been like to dare the voices--the endless, dull, half-meaningless,
though not threatening voices--of those other books--to refrain even from the appendix to the
Mémoires as such, and never, till the Modern Greekess has been dispatched, return to and possess
the entire and perfect jewel of Manon. I used to wonder, when, for nearer five and twenty than
twenty years, I read for review hundreds of novels, English and French, whether anybody would
ever repeat Prévost's extraordinary spurt and "sport" in this wonderful little book. I am bound
to say that I never knew an instance. The "first book" which gives a promise--dubious it may
be, but still promising--and is never followed by anything that fulfils this, is not so very
uncommon, though less common in prose fiction than in poetry. The not so very rare "single-speech"
poems are also not real parallels. It is of the essence of poetry, according to almost every
theory, that it should be, occasionally at least, inexplicable and unaccountable. I believe
that every human being is capable of poetry, though I should admit that the exhibition of the
capability would be in most cases--I am sure it would be in my own--"highly to be deprecated."
But with a sober prose fiction of some scope and room and verge it is different. The face of
Helen; the taste of nectar; the vision of the clouds or of the sea; the passion of a great
action in oneself or others; the infinite poignancy of suffering or of pleasure, may draw--once
and never again--immortal verse from an exceedingly mortal person. Such things might also draw
a phrase or a paragraph of prose. But they could not extract a systematic and organised prose
tale of some two hundred pages, each of them much fuller than those of our average six-shilling
stuff; and yet leave the author, who had never shown himself capable of producing anything
similar before, unable to produce anything in the least like it again. I wonder that the usual
literary busybodies have never busied themselves--perhaps they have, for during a couple of
decades I have not had the opportunity of knowing everything that goes on in French literature
as I once did--with Prévost, demonstrating that Manon was a posthumous work of the Regent (who
was a clever man), or an expression of a real passion which lay at the back of Richelieu's
debauchery, or written by some unknown author from whom the Abbé bought it, and who died early,
or something else of the kind.

There does not, however, appear to be the slightest chance or hope or fear (whichever expression
be preferred) of the kind. Although Prévost elsewhere indulges--as everybody else for a long
time in France and England alike did, save creative geniuses like Fielding--in transparently
feigned talk about the origins of his stories, he was a very respectable man in his way, and
not at all likely to father or to steal any one else's work in a disreputable fashion. There
are no other claimants for the book: and though it may be difficult for a foreigner to find
the faults of style that Gustave Planche rebukes in Prévost generally, there is nothing in
the mere style of Manon which sets it above the others.

For once one may concede that the whole attraction of the piece, barring one or two transient
but almost Shakespearian flashes of expression--such as the famous "Perfide Manon! Perfide!"
when she and Des Grieux first meet after her earliest treason--is to be found in its marvellous
humanity, its equally marvellous grasp of character, and the intense, the absolutely shattering
pathos of the relations of the hero and heroine. There are those, of course, who make much
of the persona tertia, Tiberge, the virtuous and friendly priest, who has a remarkable command
of money for a not highly placed ecclesiastic, lends it with singular want of circumspection,
and then meddles with the best of intentions and the most futile or mischievous of results.
Very respectable man, Tiberge; but one with whom on n'a que faire. Manon and Des Grieux; Des
Grieux and Manon--these are as all-sufficient to the reader as Manon was more than sufficient
to Des Grieux, and as he, alas! was, if only in some ways, insufficient to Manon.

One of the things which are nuisances in Prévost's other books becomes pardonable, almost admirable,
in this. His habit of incessant, straight-on narration by a single person, his avoidance of
dialogue properly so called, is, as has been noted, a habit common to all these early novels,
and, to our taste if not to that of their early readers, often disastrous. Here it is a positive
advantage. Manon speaks very little; and so much the better. Her "comely face and her fair
bodie" (to repeat once more a beloved quotation) speak for her to the ruin of her lover and
herself--to the age-long delectation of readers. On the other hand, the whole speech is Des
Grieux', and never was a monologue better suited or justified. The worst of such things is
usually that there are in them all sorts of second thoughts of the author. There is none of
this littleness in the speech of Des Grieux. He is a gentle youth in the very best sense of
the term, and as we gather--not from anything he says of himself, but from the general tenor--by
no means a "wild gallant"; affectionate, respectful to his parents, altogether "douce," and,
indeed, rather (to start with) like Lord Glenvarloch in The Fortunes of Nigel. He meets Manon
(Prévost has had the wits to make her a little older than her lover), and actum est de both
of them.

[Sidenote: The character of its heroine.]

But Manon herself? She talks (it has been said) very little, and it was not necessary that
she should talk much. If she had talked as Marianne talks, we should probably hate her, unless,
as is equally probable, we ceased to take any interest in her. She is a girl not of talk but
of deeds: and her deeds are of course quite inexcusable. But still that great and long unknown
verse of Prior, which tells how a more harmless heroine did various things--

    As answered the end of her being created,

fits her, and the deeds create her in their process, according to the wonderful magic of the
novelist's art. Manon is not in the least a Messalina; it is not what Messalina wanted that
she wants at all, though she may have no physical objection to it, and may rejoice in it when
it is shared by her lover. Still less is she a Margaret of Burgundy, or one of the tigress-enchantresses
of the Fronde, who would kill their lovers after enjoying their love. It has been said often,
and is beyond all doubt true, that she would have been perfectly happy with Des Grieux if he
had fulfilled the expostulations of George the Fourth as to Mr. Turveydrop, and had not only
been known to the King, but had had twenty thousand a year. She wants nobody and nothing but
him, as far as the "Him" is concerned: but she does not want him in a cottage. And here the
subtlety comes in. She does not in the least mind giving to others what she gives him, provided
that they will give her what he cannot give. The possibility of this combination is of course
not only shocking to Mrs. Grundy, but deniable by persons who are not Mrs. Grundy at all. Its
existence is not really doubtful, though hardly anybody, except Prévost and (I repeat it, little
as I am of an Ibsenite) Ibsen in the Wild Duck, has put it into real literature. Manon, like
Gina and probably like others, does not really think what she gives of immense, or of any great,
importance. People will give her, in exchange for it, what she does think of great, of immense
importance; the person to whom she would quite honestly prefer to give it cannot give her these
other things. And she concludes her bargain as composedly as any bonne who takes the basket
to the shops and "makes its handle dance"--to use the French idiom--for her own best advantage.
It does annoy her when she has to part from Des Grieux, and it does annoy her that Des Grieux
should be annoyed at what she does. But she is made of no nun's flesh, and such soul as she
has is filled with much desire for luxury and pleasure. The desire of the soul will have its
way, and the flesh lends itself readily enough to the satisfaction thereof.

[Sidenote: And that of the hero.]

So, too, there is no such instance known to me of the presentation of two different characters,
in two different ways, so complete and yet so idiosyncratic in each. Sainte-Beuve showed what
he was going to become (as well, perhaps, as something which he was going to lose) in his slight
but suggestive remarks on the relation of Des Grieux to the average roué hero of that most
roué time. It is only a suggestion; he does not work it out. But it is worth working out a
little. Des Grieux is ab initio, and in some ways usque ad finem, a sort of ingénu. He seems
to have no vicious tendencies whatever; and had Manon not supervened, might have been a very
much more exemplary Chevalier de Malte than the usual run of those dignitaries, who differed
chiefly from their uncrossed comrades and brethren in having no wife to be unfaithful to. He
is never false to Manon--the incident of one of Manon's lovers trying vainly to tempt his rival,
with a pretty cast-off mistress of his own, is one of the most striking features of the book.
He positively reveres, not his mother, who is dead, and reverence for whom would be nothing
in a Frenchman, but his father, and even, it would seem, his elder brother--a last stretch
of reverence quite unknown to many young English gentlemen who certainly would not do things
that Des Grieux did. Except when Manon is concerned, it would seem that he might have been
a kind of saint--as good at least as Tiberge. But his love for her and his desire for her entirely
saturate and transform him. That he disobeys his father and disregards his brother is nothing:
we all do that in less serious cases than his, and there is almost warrant for it in Scripture.
But he cheats at play (let us frankly allow, remembering Grammont and others, that this was
not in France the unpardonable sin that it has--for many generations, fortunately--been with
us), at the suggestion of his rascally left-hand brother-in-law, in order to supply Manon's
wants. He commits an almost deliberate (though he makes some excuses on this point) and almost
cowardly murder, on an unarmed lay-brother of Saint-Sulpice, to get to Manon. And, worst of
all, he consents to the stealing of moneys given to her by his supplanters in order to feed
her extravagance. After this his suborning the King's soldiers to attack the King's constabulary
on the King's highway to rescue Manon is nothing. But observe that, though it is certainly
not "All for God," it is "All for Her." And observe further that all these things--even the
murder--were quite common among the rank and file of that French aristocracy which was so busily
hurrying on the French Revolution. Only, Des Grieux himself would pretty certainly not have
done them if She had never come in his way. And he tells it all with a limpid and convincing
clarity (as they would say now) which puts the whole thing before us. No apology is made, and
no apology is needed. It is written in the books of the chronicles of Manon and Des Grieux;
in the lives of Des Grieux and Manon, suppose them ever to have existed or to exist, it could
not but happen.

[Sidenote: The inevitableness of both and the inestimableness of their history.]

It is surely not profane (and perhaps it has been done already) to borrow for these luckless,
and, if you will, somewhat graceless persons, the words of the mighty colophon of Matthew Arnold's
most unequal but in parts almost finest poem, at least the first and last lines:

    So rest, for ever rest, immortal pair,

and

    The rustle of the eternal rain of love.

Nor is it perhaps extravagant to claim for their creator--even for their reporter--the position
of the first person who definitely vindicated for the novel the possibility of creating a passionate
masterpiece, outstripping La Princesse de Clèves as Othello outstrips A Woman Killed with Kindness.
As for the enormous remainder of him, if it is very frankly negligible by the mere reader,
it is not quite so by the student. He was very popular, and, careless bookmaker as he was in
a very critical time, his popularity scarcely failed him till his horrible death.[342] It can
scarcely be said that, except in the one great cited instance, he heightened or intensified
the French novel, but he enlarged its scope, varied its interests, and combined new objectives
with its already existing schemes, even in his less good work. In Manon Lescaut itself he gave
a masterpiece, not only to the novel, not only to France, but to all literature and all the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Crébillon fils.]

The unfortunate nobleman as to whom Dickens has left us in doubt whether he was a peer in his
own right or the younger son or a Marquis or Duke, pronounced Shakespeare "a clayver man."
It was perhaps, in the particular instance, inadequate though true. I hardly know any one in
literature of whom it is truer and more adequate than it is of Claude Prosper Jolyot de Crébillon
the younger, commonly called Crébillon fils.[343] His very name is an abomination to Mrs. Grundy,
who probably never read, or even attempted to read, one of his naughty books. Gray's famous
tribute[344] to him--also known to a large number who are in much the same case with Mrs. Grundy--is
distinctly patronising. But he is a very clever man indeed, and the cleverness of some of his
books--especially those in dialogue--is positively amazing.

[Sidenote: The case against him.]

At the same time it is of the first importance to make the due provisos and allowances, the
want of which so frequently causes disappointment, if not positive disgust, when readers have
been induced by unbalanced laudation to take up works of the literature of other days. There
are, undoubtedly, things--many and heavy things--to be said against Crébillon. A may say, "I
am not, I think, Mr. Grundy: but I cannot stand your Crébillon. I do not like a world where
all the men are apparently atheists, and all the women are certainly the other thing mentioned
in Donne's famous line. It disgusts and sickens me: and I will have none of it, however clever
it may be." B, not quite agreeing with A, may take another tone, and observe, "He is clever
and he is amusing: but he is terribly monotonous. I do not mind a visit to the 'oyster-bearing
shores' now and then, but I do not want to live in Lampsacus. After all, even in a pagan Pantheon,
there are other divinities besides a cleverly palliated Priapus and a comparatively ladylike
Cotytto. Seven volumes of however delicately veiled 'sculduddery' are nearly as bad as a whole
evening's golf-talk in a St. Andrews hotel, or a long men's dinner, where everybody but yourself
is a member of an Amateur Dramatic Society." The present writer is not far from agreeing with
B, while he has for A a respect which disguises no shadow of a sneer. Crébillon does harp far
too much on one string, and that one of no pure tone: and even the individual handlings of
the subject are chargeable throughout his work with longueurs, in the greater part of it with
sheer tedium. It is very curious, and for us of the greatest importance, to notice how this
curse of long-windedness, episodic and hardly episodic "inset," endless talk "about it and
about it," besets these pioneers of the modern novel. Whether it was a legacy of the "Heroics"
or not it is difficult to say. I think it was--to some extent. But, as we have seen, it exists
even in Lesage; it is found conspicuously in Marivaux; it "advances insupportably" in Prévost,
except when some God intervenes to make him write (and to stop him writing) Manon; and it rests
heavily even on Crébillon, one of the lightest, if not one of the purest, of literary talents.
It is impossible to deny that he suffers from monotony of general theme: and equally impossible
to deny that he suffers from spinning out of particular pieces. There is perhaps not a single
thing of his which would not have been better if it had been shorter: and two of his liveliest
if also most risky pieces, La Nuit et le Moment and Le Hasard au Coin du Feu, might have been
cut down to one half with advantage, and to a quarter with greater advantage still.

There are, however, excuses for Crébillon: and though it may seem a rash thing to say, and
even one which gives the case away, there is, at least in these two and parts of Le Sopha,
hardly a page--even of the parts which, if "cut," would improve the work as a whole--that does
not in itself prove the almost elfish cleverness now assigned to him.

[Sidenote: For the defendant--The veracity of his artificiality and his consummate cleverness.]

The great excuse for him, from the non-literary point of view, is that this world of his--narrow
though crowded as it is, corrupt, preposterous, inviting the Judgment that came after it as
no period perhaps has ever done, except that immediately before the Deluge, that of the earlier
Roman empire, and one other--was a real world in its day, and left, as all real things do,
an abiding mark and influence on what followed. One of the scores and almost hundreds of sayings
which distinguish him, trivial as he seems to some and no doubt disgusting as he seems to others,
is made by one of his most characteristic and most impudent but not most offensive heroes à
la Richelieu, who says, not in soliloquy nor to a brother roué, but to the mistress of the
moment: "If love-making is not always a pleasure, at any rate it is always a kind of occupation."
That is the keynote of the Crébillon novel: it is the handbook, with illustrative examples,
of the business, employment, or vocation of flirting, in the most extensive and intensive meanings
of that term comprehensible to the eighteenth century.

[Sidenote: The Crébillonesque atmosphere and method.]

Now you should never scamp or hurry over business: and Crébillon observes this doctrine in
the most praiseworthy fashion. With the thorough practicality of his century and of his nation
(which has always been in reality the most practical of all nations) he sets to work to give
us the ways and manners of his world. It is an odd world at first sight, but one gets used
to its conventions. It is a world of what they used to call, in the later eighteenth and early
nineteenth century, "high fellers" and of great ladies, all of whom--saving for glimpses of
military and other appointments for the men, which sometimes take them away and are useful
for change of scene, of theatres, balls, gaming-tables for men and women both--"have nothing
in the world to do" but carry on that occupation which Clitandre of "The Night and the Moment,"
at an extremely suitable time and in equally appropriate circumstances, refers to in the words
quoted above. There are some other oddities about this world. In some parts of it nobody seems
to be married. Mrs. Grundy, and even persons more exercised in actual fact than Mrs. Grundy,
would expect them all to be, and to neglect the tie. But sometimes Crébillon finds it easier
to mask this fact. Often his ladies are actual widows, which is of course very convenient,
and might be taken as a sign of grace in him by Mrs. G.: oftener it is difficult to say what
they are legally. They are nearly all duchesses or marchionesses or countesses, just as the
men hold corresponding ranks: and they all seem to be very well off. But their sole occupation
is that conducted under the three great verbs, Prendre; Avoir; Quitter. These verbs are used
rather more frequently, but by no means exclusively, of and by the men. Taking the stage nomenclature
familiar to everybody from Molière, which Crébillon also uses in some of his books, though
he exchanges it for proper names elsewhere, let us suppose a society composed of Oronte, Clitandre,
Eraste, Damis (men), and Cydalise, Célie, Lucinde, Julie (ladies). Oronte "takes" Lucinde,
"possesses" her for a time, and "quits" her for Julie, who has been meanwhile "taken," "possessed,"
and "quitted" by Eraste. Eraste passes to the conjugation of the three verbs with Cydalise,
who, however, takes the initiative of "quitting" and conjugates "take" in joint active and
passive with Damis. Meanwhile Célie and Clitandre are similarly occupied with each other, and
ready to "cut in" with the rest at fresh arrangements. These processes require much serious
conversation, and this is related with the same mixture of gravity and irony which is bestowed
on the livelier passages of action.

The thing, in short, is most like an intensely intricate dance, with endless figures--with
elaborate, innumerable, and sometimes indescribable stage directions. And the whole of it is
written down carefully by M. Claude Prosper Jolyot de Crébillon.

He might have occupied his time much better? Perhaps, as to the subject of occupation. But
with that we have, if not nothing, very little to do. The point is, How did he handle these
better-let-alone subjects? and what contribution, in so handling them, did he make to the general
development of the novel?

I am bound to say that I think, with the caution given above, he handled them, when he was
at his best, singularly well, and gave hints, to be taken or left as they chose, to handlers
of less disputable subjects than his.

One at least of the most remarkable things about him is connected with this very disputableness.
Voltaire and Sterne were no doubt greater men than Crébillon fils: and though both of them
dealt with the same class of subject, they also dealt with others, while he did not. But, curiously
enough, the reproach of sniggering, which lies so heavily on Laurence Sterne and François Arouet,
does not lie on Crébillon. He has an audacity of grave persiflage[345] which is sometimes almost
Swiftian in a lower sphere: and it saves him from the unpardonable sin of the snigger. He has
also--as, to have this grave persiflage, he almost necessarily must have--a singularly clear
and flexible style, which is only made more piquant by the "-assiez's" and "-ussiez's" of the
older language. Further, and of still greater importance for the novelist, he has a pretty
wit, which sometimes almost approaches humour, and, if not a diabolically, a diablotinically
acute perception of human nature as it affects his subject. This perception rarely fails: and
conventional, and very unhealthily conventional, as the Crébillon world is, the people who
inhabit it are made real people. He is, in those best things of his at least, never "out."
We can see the ever-victorious duke (M. de Clerval of the Hasard is perhaps the closest to
the Richelieu model of all Crébillon's coxcomb-gallants), who, even after a lady has given
him most unequivocal proofs of her affection, refuses for a long time, if not finally, to say
that he loves her, because he has himself a graduated scheme of values in that direction, and
though she may have touched his heart, etc., she has not quite come up to his "love" standard.[346]
And we know, too, though she is less common, the philosophical Marquise herself, who, "possessing"
the most notoriously inconstant lover in all Paris (this same M. de Clerval, it happens), maintains
her comparative indifference to the circumstance, alleging that even when he is most inconstant
he is always "very affectionate, though a little extinguished." And in fact he goes off to
her from the very fireside, where such curious things have chanced. Extravagant as are the
situations in La Nuit et le Moment, the other best thing, they are, but for the longueurs already
censured, singularly verisimilar on their own postulates. The trusty coachman, who always drives
particularly slowly when a lady accompanies his master in the carriage, but would never think
of obeying the check-string if his master's own voice did not authorise it; the invaluable
soubrette who will sit up to any hour to play propriety, when her mistress is according a tête-à-tête,
but who, most naturally, always falls asleep--these complete, at the lower end of the scale,
what the dukes and the countesses have begun at the upper. And Crébillon, despite his verbosity,
is never at a loss for pointed sayings to relieve and froth it up. Nor are these mere mots
or pointes or conceits--there is a singular amount of life-wisdom in them, and a short anthology
might be made here, if there were room for it, which would entirely vindicate the assertion.

[Sidenote: Inequality of his general work--a survey of it.]

It is true that the praises just given to Crébillon do not (as was indeed hinted above) apply
to the whole of his work, or even to the larger part of it. An unfavourable critic might indeed
say that, in strictness, they only apply to parts of Le Sopha and to the two little dialogue-stories
just referred to. The method is, no doubt, one by no means easy to apply on the great scale,
and the restriction of the subject adds to the difficulty. The longest regular stories of all,
Ah! Quel Conte! and Le Sopha itself, though they should have been mentioned in reverse order,
are resumptions of the Hamiltonian idea[347] of chaining things on to the Arabian Nights. Crébillon,
however, does not actually resuscitate Shahriar and the sisters, but substitutes a later Caliph,
Shah Baham, and his Sultana. The Sultan is exceedingly stupid, but also very talkative, and
fond of interrupting his vizier and the other tale-tellers with wiseacreries; the Sultana is
an acute enough lady, who governs her tongue in order to save her neck. The framework is not
bad for a short story, but becomes a little tedious when it is made to enshrine two volumes,
one of them pretty big. It is better in Le Sopha than in Ah! Quel Conte! and some of the tales
that it gives us in the former are almost equal to the two excepted dialogues. Moreover, it
is unluckily true that Ah! Quel Conte! (an ejaculation of the Sultana's at the beginning) might
be, as Crébillon himself doubtless foresaw, repeated with a sinister meaning by a reader at
the end. Tanzaï et Néadarné or L'Écumoire, another fairy story, though livelier in its incidents
than Ah! Quel Conte!--nay, though it contains some of Crébillon's smartest sayings, and has
perhaps his nicest heroine,--is heavy on the whole, and in it, the author's gauffre-like lightness
of "impropriety" being absent, the tone approaches nearer to that dismallest form of literature
or non-literature--the deliberate obscene.

Les Égarements du Coeur et de l'Esprit, on the other hand--one of the author's earliest books--is
the furthest from that most undesirable consummation, and one of the most curious, if not of
the most amusing, of all. It recounts, from the mouth of the neophyte himself, the "forming"
of a very young man--almost a boy--to this strange kind of commerce, by an elderly, but not
yet old, and still attractive coquette, Madame de Lursay, whose earlier life has scandalised
even the not easily scandalisable society of her time (we are not told quite how), but who
has recovered a reputation very slightly tarnished. The hero is flattered, but for a long time
too timid and innocent to avail himself of the advantages offered to him; while, before very
long, Madame de Lursay's wiles are interfered with by an "Inconnue-Ingénue," with whom he falls
in deep calf-love of a quasi-genuine kind. The book includes sketches of the half-bravo gallants
of the time, and is not negligible: but it is not vividly interesting.

Still less so, though they contain some very lively passages, and are the chief locus for Crébillon's
treatment of the actual trio of husband, wife, and lover, are the Lettres de la Marquise de
M---- au Comte de P----. The scene in which the husband--unfaithful, peevish, and a petit maître--enters
his wife's room to find an ancient, gouty Marquis, who cannot get off his knees quick enough,
and terminates the situation with all the aplomb of the Regency, is rather nice: and the gradual
"slide" of the at first quite virtuous writer (the wife herself, of course) is well depicted.
But love-letters which are neither half-badinage--which these are not--nor wholly passionate--which
these never are till the last,[348] when the writer is describing a state of things which Crébillon
could not manage at all--are very difficult things to bring off, and Claude Prosper is not
quite equal to the situation.

It will thus be seen that the objectors whom we have called A and B--or at least B--will find
that they or he need not read all the pages of all the seven volumes to justify their views:
and some other work, still to be mentioned, completes the exhibition. I confess, indeed, once
more unblushingly, that I have not read every page of them myself. Had they fallen in my way
forty years ago I should, no doubt, have done so; but forty years of critical experience and
exercise give one the power, and grant one the right, of a more summary procedure in respect
of matter thus postponed, unless it is perceived to be of very exceptional quality. These larger
works of Crébillon's are not good, though they are not by any means so bad as those of Prévost.
There are nuggets, of the shrewd sense and the neat phrase with which he has been credited,
in nearly all of them: and these the skilled prospector of reading gold will always detect
and profit by. But, barring the possibility of a collection of such, the Oeuvres Choisies of
Crébillon need not contain more than the best parts of Le Sopha, the two comparatively short
dialogue-tales, and a longer passage or two from Tanzaï et Néadarné. It would constitute (I
was going to say a respectable, but as that is hardly the right word, I will say rather) a
tolerable volume. Even in a wider representation Les Heureux Orphelins and Lettres Athéniennes
would yield very little.

The first begins sensationally with the discovery, by a young English squire in his own park,
of a foundling girl and boy--not of his own production--whom he brings up; and it ends with
a tedious description of how somebody founded the first petite maison in England--a worthy
work indeed. It is also noteworthy for a piece of bad manners, which, one regrets to say, French
writers have too often committed; lords and ladies of the best known names and titles in or
near Crébillon's own day--such as Oxford, Suffolk, Pembroke--being introduced with the utmost
nonchalance.[349] Our novelists have many faults to charge themselves with, and Anthony Trollope,
in The Three Clerks, produced a Frenchman with perhaps as impossible a name as any English
travesty in French literature. But I do not remember any one introducing, in a not historical
novel, a Duc de la Tremoille or a member of any of the branches of Rohan, at a time when actual
bearers of these titles existed in France. As for the Lettres Athéniennes, if it were not for
completeness, I should scarcely even mention them. Alcibiades is the chief male writer; Aspasia
the chief female; but all of them, male and female, are equally destitute of Atticism and of
interest. The contrast of the contrasts between Crébillon's and Prévost's best and worst work
is one of the oddest things in letters. One wonders how Prévost came to write anything so admirable
as Manon Lescaut; one wonders how Crébillon came to write anything so insufficient as the two
books just criticised, and even others.

It may be said, "This being so, why have you given half a chapter to these two writers, even
with Lesage and Marivaux to carry it off?" The reason is that this is (or attempts to be) a
history of the French novel, and that, in such a history, the canons of importance are not
the same as those of the novel itself. Gil Blas, Marianne, Manon Lescaut, and perhaps even
Le Hasard au Coin du Feu are interesting in themselves; but the whole work of their authors
is important, and therefore interesting, to the historical student. For these authors carried
further--a great deal further--the process of laying the foundations and providing the materials
and plant for what was to come. Of actual masterpieces they only achieved the great, but not
equally great, one of Gil Blas and the little one of Manon Lescaut. But it is not by masterpieces
alone that the world of literature lives in the sense of prolonging its life. One may even
say--touching the unclean thing paradox for a moment, and purifying oneself with incense, and
salt, and wine--that the masterpieces of literature are more beautiful and memorable and delectable
in themselves than fertile in results. They catch up the sum of their own possibilities, and
utter it in such a fashion that there is no more to say in that fashion. The dreary imitation
Iliads, the impossible sham Divina Commedias, the Sheridan-Knowles Shakespearian plays, rise
up and terrify or bore us. Whereas these second-rate experimenters, these adventurers in quest
of what they themselves hardly know, strike out paths, throw seed, sketch designs which others
afterwards pursue, and plant out, and fill up. There are probably not many persons now who
would echo Gray's wish for eternal romances of either Marivaux or Crébillon; and the accompanying
remarks in the same letter on Joseph Andrews, though they show some appreciation of the best
characters, are quite inappreciative of the merit of the novel as a whole. For eternal variations
of Joseph Andrews, "Passe!" as a French Gray might have said.

Nevertheless, I am myself pretty sure that Marivaux at least helped Richardson and Fielding,
and there can be no doubt that Crébillon helped Sterne. And what is more important to our present
purpose, they and their companions in this chapter helped the novel in general, and the French
novel in particular, to an extent far more considerable. We may not, of course, take the course
of literary history--general or particular--which has been, as the course which in any case
must have been. But at the same time we cannot neglect the facts. And it is a quite certain
fact that, for the whole of the last half of the eighteenth century, and nearly the whole of
the first quarter of the nineteenth, the French novel, as a novel, made singularly little progress.
We shall have to deal in the next chapter, if not in the next two chapters, with at least two
persons of far greater powers than any one mentioned in the last two. But we shall perhaps
be able to show cause why even Voltaire and Rousseau, why certainly Diderot, why Marmontel
and almost every one else till we come, not in this volume, to Chateaubriand, whose own position
is a little doubtful, somehow failed to attain the position of a great advancer of the novel.

These others, whatever their shortcomings, had advanced it by bringing it, in various ways,
a great deal nearer to its actual ideal of a completed picture of real human life. Lesage had
blended with his representation a good deal of the conventional picaresque; Marivaux had abused
preciousness of language and petty psychology; Prévost, save in that marvellous windfall of
his and the Muses which the historian of novels can hardly mention without taking off his hat
if he has one on, or making his best bow if he has not, had gone wandering after impossible
and uninteresting will-o'-the-wisps; Crébillon had done worse than "abide in his inn," he had
abided almost always in his polite[350] bordello. But all of them had meant to be real; and
all of them had, if only now and then, to an extent which even Madame de la Fayette had scarcely
achieved before, attained reality.

FOOTNOTES:

[309] In fact it has been said, and may be said again, that Lesage is one of the prophets who
have never had so much justice done them in their own countries as abroad.

[310] The first part of Gil Blas appeared in 1715; and nearly twenty years later gossip said
that the fourth was not ready, though the author had been paid in advance for it six or seven
years earlier.

[311] I have never read it in the original, being, though a great admirer of Spanish, but slightly
versed therein.

[312] This, which is a sort of Appendix to the Diable Boiteux, is much the best of these opera
minora.

[313] He had a temper of the most Breton-Bretonnant type--not ill-natured but sturdy and independent,
recalcitrant alike to ill-treatment and to patronage. He got on neither at the Bar, his first
profession, nor with the regular actors, and he took vengeance in his books on both; while
at least one famous anecdote shows his way of treating a patron--indeed, as it happened, a
patroness--who presumed.

[314] Asmodeus, according to his usual station in the infernal hierarchy, is démon de la luxure:
but any fears or hopes which may be aroused by this description, and the circumstances of the
action, will be disappointed. Lesage has plenty of risky situations, but his language is strictly
"proper."

[315] Against this may be cited his equally anecdotic acceptance of Regnard, who was also "run"
against Molière. But Regnard was a "classic" and orthodox in his way; Lesage was a free-lance,
and even a Romantic before Romanticism. Boileau knew that evil, as evil seemed to him, had
come from Spain; he saw more coming in this, and if he anticipated more still in the future,
1830 proved him no false prophet.

[316] In other words, there is a unity of personality in the attitude which the hero takes
to and in them.

[317] And in it too, of course; as well as in Spain's remarkable but too soon re-enslaved criticism.

[318] As he says of himself (vii. x.): Enfin, après un sévère examen je tombais d'accord avec
moi-même, que si je n'étais pas un fripon, il ne s'en fallait guère. And the Duke of Lerma
tells him later, "M. de Santillane, à ce que je vois, vous avez été tant soit peu picaro."

[319] The two most undoubted cases--his ugly and, unluckily, repeated acceptance of the part
of Pandarus-Leporello--were only too ordinary rascalities in the seventeenth century. The books
of the chronicles of England and France show us not merely clerks and valets but gentlemen
of every rank, from esquire to duke, eagerly accepting this office.

[320] In a curious passage of Bk. XII. Chap. I. in which Gil disclaims paternity and resigns
it to Marialva. This may have been prompted by a desire to lessen the turpitude of the go-between
business; but it is a clumsy device, and makes Gil look a fool as well as a knave.

[321] One of Lesage's triumphs is the way in which, almost to the last, "M. de Santillane,"
despite the rogueries practised often on and sometimes by him, retains a certain gullibility,
or at least ingenuousness.

[322] Not of course as opposed to "romantic," but as = "chief and principal."

[323] The reader must not forget that this formidable word means "privateer" rather than "pirate"
in French, and that this was the golden age of the business in that country.

[324] Those who are curious may find something on him by the present writer, not identical
with the above account, in an essay entitled A Study of Sensibility, reprinted in Essays on
French Novelists (London, 1891), and partly, but outside of the Marivaux part, reproduced in
Chap. XII. of the present volume.

[325] By M. Gustave Larroumet. Paris, 1882.

[326] I need hardly say that I am not referring to things like Rebecca and Rowena or A Legend
of the Rhine, which "burst the outer shell of sin," and, like Mrs. Martha Gwynne in the epitaph,
"hatch themselves a cherubin" in each case.

[327] The reader will perhaps excuse the reminder that the sense in which we (almost exclusively)
use this word, and which it had gained in French itself by the time of Talleyrand's famous
double-edged sarcasm on person and world (Il n'est pas parvenu: il est arrivé), was not quite
original. The parvenu was simply a person who had "got on": the disobliging slur of implication
on his former position, and perhaps on his means of freeing himself from it, came later. It
is doubtful whether there is much, if indeed there is any, of this slur in Marivaux's title.

[328] It is the acme of what may be called innocent corruption. She does not care for her master,
nor apparently for vicious pleasure, nor--certainly--for money as such. She does care for Jacob,
and wants to marry him; the money will make this possible; so she earns it by the means that
present themselves, and puts it at his disposal.

[329] He is proof against his master's threats if he refuses; as well as against the money
if he accepts. Unluckily for Geneviève, when he breaks away she faints. Her door and the money-box
are both left open, and the latter disappears.

[330] Here and elsewhere the curious cheapness of French living (despite what history tells
of crushing taxation, etc.) appears. The locus classicus for this is generally taken to be
Mme. de Maintenon's well-known letter about her brother's housekeeping. But here, well into
another century, Mlle. Habert's 4000 livres a year are supposed to be at least relative affluence,
while in Marianne (v. inf.) M. de Climal thinks 500 or 600 enough to tempt her, and his final
bequest of double that annuity is represented as making a far from despicable dot even for
a good marriage.

[331] The much greater blood-thirstiness of the French highwayman, as compared with the English,
has been sometimes attributed by humanitarians to the "wheel"--and has often been considered
by persons of sense as justifying that implement.

[332] The Devil's Advocate may say that Marianne turns out to be of English extraction after
all--but it is not Marivaux who tells us so.

[333] To question or qualify Marianne's virtue, even in the slightest degree, may seem ungracious;
for it certainly withstands what to some girls would have been the hardest test of all--that
is to say, not so much the offer of riches if she consents, as the apparent certainty of utter
destitution if she refuses. At the same time, the Devil's Advocate need not be a Kelly or a
Cockburn to make out some damaging suggestions. Her vague, and in no way solidly justified,
but decided family pride seems to have a good deal to do with her refusal; and though this
shows the value of the said family pride, it is not exactly virtue in itself. Still more would
appear to be due to the character of the suit and the suitor. M. de Climal is not only old
and unattractive; not only a sneak and a libertine; but he is a clumsy person, and he has not,
as he might have done, taken Marianne's measure. The mere shock of his sudden transformation
from a pious protector into a prospective "keeper," who is making a bid for a new concubine,
has evidently an immense effect on her quick nervous temperament. She is not at all the kind
of girl to like to be the plaything of an old man; and she is perfectly shrewd enough to see
that vengeance, and fear as regards his nephew, have as much as anything else, or more, to
do with the way in which he brusques his addresses and hurries his gift. Further, she has already
conceived a fancy, at least, for that nephew himself; and one sees the "jury droop," as Dickens
has put it, with which the Counsel of the Prince of the Air would hint that, if the offers
had come in a more seductive fashion from Valville himself, they might not have been so summarily
rejected. But let it be observed that these considerations, while possibly unfair to Marianne,
are not in the least derogatory to Marivaux himself. On the contrary, it is greatly to his
credit that he should have created a character of sufficient lifelikeness and sufficient complexity
to serve as basis for "problem"-discussions of the kind.

[334] To put the drift of the above in other words, we do not need to hear any more of Marianne
in any position, because we have had enough shown us to know generally what she would do, say,
and think, in all positions.

[335] It has been observed that there is actually a Meredithian quality in Aristides of Smyrna,
though he wrote no novel. A tale in Greek, to illustrate the parallel, would be an admirable
subject for a University Prize.

[336] Two descriptions of "Marivaudage" (which, by the way, was partly anticipated by Fontenelle)--both,
if I do not mistake, by Crébillon fils--are famous: "Putting down not only everything you said
and thought, but also everything you would like to have thought and said, but did not," and,
"Introducing to each other words which never had thought of being acquainted." Both of these
perhaps hit the modern forms of the phenomenon even harder than they hit their original butt.

[337] It is only fair to the poor Prioress to say that there is hardly a heroine in fiction
who is more deeply in love with her own pretty little self than Marianne.

[338] One does not know whether it was prudence, or that materialism which, though he was no
philosophe, he shared with most of his contemporaries, which prevented Marivaux from completing
this sharp though mildly worded criticism. The above-mentioned profane have hinted that both
the placidity and the indifference of the persons concerned, whether Catholic or Calvinist,
arise from their certainty of their own safety in another world, and their looking down on
less "guaranteed" creatures in this. It may be just permissible to add that a comparison of
Chaucer's and Marivaux's prioresses will suggest itself to many persons, and should be found
delectable by all fit ones.

[339] His books on Margaret of Anjou and William the Conqueror are odd crosses between actual
historical essays and the still unborn historical novel.

[340] Mlle. de Launay, better known as Mme. de Staal-Delaunay, saw, as most would have seen,
a resemblance in this to the famous Mlle. Aïssé's. But the latter was bought as a little child
by her provident "protector," M. de Ferréol. Mlle. Aïssé herself had earlier read the Mémoires
d'un Homme de Qualité and did not think much of them. But this was the earlier part. It would
be odd if she had not appreciated Manon had she read it: but she died in the year of its appearance.

[341] The excellent but rather stupid editor of the [Dutch] Oeuvres Choisies above noticed
has given abstracts of Prévost's novels as well as of Richardson's, which the Abbé translated.
These, with Sainte-Beuve's of the Mémoires, will help those who want something more than what
is in the text, while declining the Sahara of the original. But, curiously enough, the Dutchman
does not deal with the end of Cléveland.

[342] He had a fit of apoplexy when walking, and instead of being bled was actually cut open
by a village super-Sangrado, who thought him dead and only brought him to life--to expire actually
in torment.

[343] Crébillon père, tragedian and academician, is one of the persons who have never had justice
done to them: perhaps because they never quite did justice to themselves. His plays are unequal,
rhetorical, and as over-heavy as his son's work is over-light. But, if we want to find the
true tragic touch of verse in the French eighteenth century, we must go to him.

[344] "Be it mine to read endless romances of Marivaux and Crébillon."

[345] Learnt, no doubt, to a great extent from Anthony Hamilton, with whose family, as has
been noticed, he had early relations.

[346] He goes further, and points out that, as she is his really beloved Marquise's most intimate
friend, she surely wouldn't wish him to declare himself false to that other lady?--having also
previously observed that, after what has occurred, he could never think of deceiving his Célie
herself by false declarations. These topsy-turvinesses are among Crébillon's best points, and
infinitely superior to the silly "platitudes reversed" which have tried to produce the same
effect in more recent times.

[347] It has been said more than once that Crébillon had early access to Hamilton's MSS. He
refers directly to the Facardins in Ah! Quel Conte! and makes one of his characters claim to
be grand-daughter of Cristalline la Curieuse herself.

[348] Nor perhaps even then, for passion is absolutely unknown to our author. One touch of
it would send the curious Rupert's drop of his microcosm to shivers, as Manon Lescaut itself
in his time, and Adolphe long after, show.

[349] Some remarks are made by "Madame Hépenny"--a very pleasing phoneticism, and, though an
actual name, not likely to offend any actual person.

[350] No sneer is intended in this adjective. Except in one or two of the personages of Les
Égarements, Crébillon's intended gentlemen are nearly always well-bred, however ill-moralled
they may be, and his ladies (with the same caution) are ladies. It is with him, in this last
point at any rate, as with our own Congreve, whom he rather closely resembles in some ways:
though I was amused the other day to find some twentieth-century critical objections to actresses'
rendering of Love for Love as "too well-bred." The fact is that the tradition of "breeding"
never broke down in France till the philosophe period, while with us it lasted till--when shall
we say?

CHAPTER XI

THE PHILOSOPHE NOVEL

[Sidenote: The use of the novel for "purpose"--Voltaire.]

It has been for some time a commonplace--though, like most commonplaces, it is probably much
more often simply borrowed than an actual and (even in the sense of communis) original perception
of the borrowers--that nothing shows the comparative inevitableness of the novel in the eighteenth
century better than the use of it by persons who would, at other times, have used quite different
forms to subserve similar purposes. The chief instance of this with us is, of course, Johnson
in Rasselas, but it is much more variously and voluminously, if not in any single instance
much better, illustrated in France by the three great leaders of the philosophe movement; by
considerable, if second-rate figures, more or less connected with that movement, like Marmontel
and Bernardin de Saint-Pierre; and by many lesser writers.

There can be no question that, in more ways than one, Voltaire[351] deserves the first place
in this chapter, not only by age, by volume, and by variety of general literary ability, but
because he, perhaps more than any of the others, is a tale-teller born. That he owes a good
deal to Hamilton, and something directly to Hamilton's master, Saint-Évremond, has been granted
elsewhere; but that he is dependent on these models to such an extent as to make his actual
production unlikely if the models had not been ready for him, may be roundly denied. There
are in literature some things which must have existed, and of which it is not frivolous to
say that if their actual authors had not been there, or had declined to write them, they would
have found somebody else to do it. Of these, Candide is evidently one, and more than one of
Candide's smaller companions have at least something of the same characteristic. Yet one may
also say that if Voltaire himself had not written these, he must have written other things
of the kind. The mordant wit, the easy, fluent, rippling style, so entirely free from boisterousness
yet with constant "wap" of wavelet and bursting of foam-bubble; above all, the pure unadulterated
faculty of tale-telling, must have found vent and play somehow. It had been well if the playfulness
had not been, as playfulness too often is, of what contemporary English called an "unlucky"
(that is, a "mischievous") kind; and if the author had not been constantly longing to make
somebody or many bodies uncomfortable,[352] to damage and defile shrines, to exhibit a misanthropy
more really misanthropic, because less passionate and tragical, than Swift's, and, in fact,
as his patron, persecutor, and counterpart, Frederick the Jonathan-Wildly Great, most justly
observed of him, to "play monkey-tricks," albeit monkey-tricks of immense talent, if not actually
of genius. If the recent attempts to interpret monkey-speech were to come to something, and
if, as a consequence, monkeys were taught to write, one may be sure that prose fiction would
be their favourite department, and that their productions would be, though almost certainly
disreputable, quite certainly amusing. In fact there would probably be some among these which
would be claimed, by critics of a certain type, as hitherto unknown works of Voltaire himself.

Yet if the straightforward tale had not, owing to the influences discussed in the foregoing
chapters, acquired a firm hold, it is at least possible that he would not have adopted it (for
originality of form was not Voltaire's forte), but would have taken the dialogue, or something
else capable of serving his purpose. As it was, the particular field or garden had already
been marked out and hedged after a fashion; tools and methods of cultivation had been prepared;
and he set to work to cultivate it with the application and intelligence recommended in the
famous moral of his most famous tale--a moral which, it is only fair to say, he did carry out
almost invariably. A garden of very questionable plants was his, it may be; but that is another
matter. The fact and the success of the cultivation are both undeniable.

[Sidenote: General characteristics of his tales.]

At the same time, Voltaire--if indeed, as was doubted just now, he be a genius at all--is not
a genius, or even a djinn, of the kind that creates and leaves something Melchisedec-like;
alone and isolated from what comes before and what comes after. He is an immense talent--perhaps
the greatest talent-but-not-genius ever known--who utilises and improves and develops rather
than invents. It is from this that his faculty of never boring, except when he has got upon
the Scriptures, comes; it is because of this also that he never conceives anything really,
simply, absolutely great. His land is never exactly weary, but there is no imposing and sheltering
and refreshing rock in it. These romans and contes and nouvelles of his stimulate, but they
do not either rest or refresh. They have what is, to some persons at any rate, the theatrical
quality, not the poetical or best-prosaic. But as nearly consummate works of art, or at least
craft, they stand almost alone.

He had seen[353] the effect of which the fairy tale of the sophisticated kind was capable,
and the attraction which it had for both vulgars, the great and the small: and he made the
most of it. He kept and heightened its haut goût; he discarded the limitations to a very partial
and conventional society which Crébillon put on it; but he limited it in other ways to commonplace
and rather vulgar fancy, without the touches of imagination which Hamilton had imparted. Yet
he infused an even more accurate appreciation of certain phases of human nature than those
predecessors or partial contemporaries of his who were discussed in the last chapter had introduced;
he practicalised it to the nth, and he made it almost invariably subordinate to a direct, though
a sometimes more or less ignoble, purpose. There is no doubt that he had learnt a great deal
from Lucian and from Lucian's French imitators, perhaps as far back as Bonaventure des Périers;
there is, I think, little that he had added as much as he could add from Swift.[354] His stolen
or borrowed possessions from these sources, and especially this last, remind one in essence
rather of the pilferings of a "light horseman," or river-pirate who has hung round an "old
three-decker," like that celebrated in Mr. Kipling's admirable poem, and has caught something
even of the light from "her tall poop-lanterns shining so far above him," besides picking up
overboard trifles, and cutting loose boats and cables. But when he gets to shore and to his
own workshop, his almost unequalled power of sheer wit, and his general craftsmanship, bring
out of these lootings something admirable in its own way.

[Sidenote: Candide.]

Candide is almost "great," and though the breed of Dr. Pangloss in its original kind is nearly
extinct, the England which suffered the approach, and has scarcely yet allowed itself to comprehend
the reality, of the war of 1914, ought to know that there have been and are Panglossotins of
almost appalling variety. The book does not really require the smatches of sculduddery, which
he has smeared over it, to be amusing; for its lifelikeness carries it through. As is well
known, Johnson admitted the parallel with Rasselas, which is among the most extraordinary coincidences
of literature. I have often wondered whether anybody ever took the trouble to print the two
together. There would be many advantages in doing so; but they might perhaps be counter-balanced
by the fact that some of the most fervent admirers of Rasselas would be infinitely shocked
by Candide, and that perhaps more of the special lovers of Candide would find themselves bored
to extinction by Rasselas. Let those who can not only value but enjoy both be thankful, but
not proud.

Many people have written about the Consolations of Old Age, not seldom, it is to be feared,
in a "Who's afraid?" sort of spirit. But there are a few, an apple or two by the banks of Ulai,
which we may pluck as the night approaches. One is almost necessarily accidental, for it would
be rash and somewhat cold-blooded to plan it. It consists in the reading, after many years,
of a book once familiar almost to the point of knowing by heart, and then laid aside, not from
weariness or disgust, but merely as things happened. This, as in some other books mentioned
in this history, was the case with the present writer in respect of Candide. From twenty to
forty, or thereabouts, I must have read it over and over again; the sentences drop into their
places almost without exercising any effort of memory to recognise them. From forty to seventy
I do not think I read it at all; because no reason made reading necessary, and chance left
it untouched on the shelf. Sometimes, as everybody knows, the result of renewed acquaintance
in such cases is more or less severe disappointment; in a few of the happiest, increased pleasure.
But it is perhaps the severest test of a classic (in the exact but limited sense of that word)
that its effect shall be practically unchanged, shall have been established in the mind and
taste with such a combination of solidity and netteté, that no change is possible. I do not
think I have ever found this to be more the case than with the history of Candide (who was
such a good fellow, without being in the least a prig, as I am afraid Zadig was, that one wonders
how Voltaire came to think of him) and of Mademoiselle Cunégonde (nobody will ever know anything
about style who does not feel what the continual repetition in Candide's mouth of the "Mademoiselle"
does) of the indomitable Pangloss, and the detestable baron, and the forgivable Paquette, and
that philosopher Martin, who did not "let cheerfulness break in," and the admirable Cacambo,
who shows that, much as he hated Rousseau, Voltaire himself was not proof against the noble
savage mania.[355]

As a piece (v. sup.) of art or craft, the thing is beyond praise or pay. It could not be improved,
on its own specification, except that perhaps the author might have told us how Mademoiselle
Cunégonde, who had kept her beauty through some very severe experiences, suddenly lost it.
It is idle as literary, though not as historical, criticism to say, as has been often said
about the Byng passage, that Voltaire's smartness rather "goes off through the touch-hole,"
seeing that the admiral's execution did very considerably "encourage the others." It is superfluous
to urge the unnecessary "smuts," which are sometimes not in the least amusing. All these and
other sought-for knots are lost in the admirable smoothness of this reed, which waves in the
winds of time with unwitherable greenness, and slips through the hand, as you stroke it, with
a coaxing tickle. To praise its detail would again be idle--nobody ought to read such praise
who can read itself; and if anybody, having read its first page, fails to see that it is, and
how it is, praiseworthy, he never will or would be converted if all the eulogies of the most
golden-mouthed critics of the world were poured upon him in a steady shower. As a whole it
is undoubtedly the best, and (except part of Zadig) it is nowhere else matched in the book
of the romances of Voltaire, while for those who demand "purposes" and "morals," it stands
almost alone. It is the comic "Vanity of Human Wishes" in prose, as Rasselas is the tragic
or, at least, serious version: and, as has been said, the two make an unsurpassable sandwich,
or, at least, tartine. Nor could it have been told, in any other way than by prose fiction,
with anything like the same effect, either as regards critical judgment or popular acceptance.

[Sidenote: Zadig and its satellites.]

Zadig, as has been indicated already, probably ranks in point of merit next to Candide. If
it had stopped about half-way, there could be no doubt about the matter. The successive disappointments
of the almost too perfect[356] hero are given with the simplicity just edged with irony which
is Voltaire's when he is at his best, though he undoubtedly learnt it from the masters already
assigned, and--the suggestion would have made him very angry, and would probably have attracted
one of his most Yahoo-like descents on this humble and devoted head--from Lesage. But though
the said head has no objection--much the reverse--to "happy endings," the romance-finish of
Zadig has always seemed to it a mistake. Still, how many mistakes would one pardon if they
came after such a success? Babouc, the first of those miniature contes (they are hardly "tales"
in one sense), which Voltaire managed so admirably, has the part-advantage part-disadvantage
of being likewise the first of a series of satires on French society, which, piquant as they
are, would certainly have been both more piquant and more weighty if there had been fewer of
them. It is full of the perfect, if not great, Voltairian phrases,--the involuntary Mene Tekel,
"Babouc conclut qu'une telle société ne pouvait subsister"; the palinode after a fashion, "Il
s'affectionnait à la ville, dont le peuple était doux [oh! Nemesis!] poli et bien-faisant,
quoique léger, médisant et plein de vanité"; and the characteristic collection of parallel
between Babouc and Jonah, surely not objectionable even to the most orthodox, "Mais quand on
a été trois jours dans le corps d'une baleine on n'est pas de si bonne humeur que quand on
a été à l'opéra, à la comédie et qu'on a soupé en bonne compagnie."

[Sidenote: Micromégas.]

Memnon, ou La Sagesse Humaine is still less of a tale, only a lively sarcastic apologue; but
he would be a strange person who would quarrel with its half-dozen pages, and much the same
may be said of the Voyages de Scarmentado. Still, one feels in both of them, and in many of
the others, that they are after all not much more than chips of an inferior rehandling of Gulliver.
Micromégas, as has been said, does not disguise its composition as something of the kind; but
the desire to annoy Fontenelle, while complimenting him after a fashion as the "dwarf of Saturn,"
and perhaps other strokes of personal scratching, have put Voltaire on his mettle. You will
not easily find a better Voltairism of its particular class than, "Il faut bien citer ce qu'on
ne comprend point du tout, dans la langue qu'on entend le moins." But, as so often happens,
the cracker in the tail is here the principal point. Micromégas, the native of Sirius, who
may be Voltaire himself, or anybody else--after his joint tour through the universes (much
more amusing than that of the late Mr. Bailey's Festus), with the smaller but still gigantic
Saturnian--writes a philosophical treatise to instruct us poor microbes of the earth, and it
is taken to Paris, to the secretary of the Academy of Science (Fontenelle himself). "Quand
le sécretaire l'eut ouvert il ne vit rien qu'un livre tout blanc. 'Ah!' dit-il, 'je m'en étais
bien douté.'" Voltaire did a great deal of harm in the world, and perhaps no solid good;[357]
but it is things like this which make one feel that it would have been, a loss had there been
no Voltaire.

[Sidenote: L'Ingénu.]

L'Ingénu, which follows Candide in the regular editions, falls perhaps as a whole below all
these, and L'Homme aux Quarante Écus, which follows it, hardly concerns us at all, being mere
political economy of a sort in dialogue. L'Ingénu is a story, and has many amusing things in
it. But it is open to the poser that if Voltaire really accepted the noble savage business
he was rather silly, and that if he did not, the piece is a stale and not very biting satire.
It is, moreover, somewhat exceptionally full (there is only one to beat it) of the vulgar little
sniggers which suggest the eunuch even more than the schoolboy, and the conclusion is abominable.
The seducer and, indirectly, murderer Saint-Pouange may only have done after his kind in regard
to Mlle. de Saint-Yves; but the Ingénu himself neither acted up to his Huron education, nor
to his extraction as a French gentleman, in forgiving the man and taking service under him.

[Sidenote: La Princesse de Babylone.]

La Princesse de Babylone is more like Hamilton than almost any other of the tales, and this,
it need hardly be said here, is high praise, even for a work of Voltaire. For it means that
it has what we commonly find in that work, and also something that we do not. But it has that
defect which has been noticed already in Zadig, and which, by its absence, constitutes the
supremacy of Candide. There is in it a sort of "break in the middle." The earlier stages of
the courtship of Formosante are quite interesting; but when she and her lover begin separately
to wander over the world, in order that their chronicler may make satiric observations on the
nations thereof, one feels inclined to say, as Mr. Mowbray Morris said to Mr. Matthew Arnold
(who thought it was Mr. Traill):

    Can't you give us something new?

[Sidenote: Some minors.]

Le Blanc et le Noir rises yet again, and though it has perhaps not many of Voltaire's mots
de flamme, it is more of a fairy moral tale--neither a merely fantastic mow, nor sicklied over
with its morality--than almost any other. It is noteworthy, too, that the author has hardly
any recourse to his usual clove of garlic to give seasoning. Jeannot et Colin might have been
Marmontel's or Miss Edgeworth's, being merely the usual story of two rustic lads, one of whom
becomes rich and corrupt till, later, he is succoured by the other. Now Marmontel and Miss
Edgeworth are excellent persons and writers; but their work is not work for Voltaire.

The Lettres d'Amabed[358] are the dirtiest and the dullest of the whole batch, and the Histoire
de Jenni, though not particularly dirty, is very dull indeed, being the "History of a Good
Deist," a thing without which (as Mr. Carlyle used to say) we could do. The same sort of "purpose"
mars Les Oreilles du Comte de Chesterfield, in which, after the first page, there is practically
nothing about Lord Chesterfield or his deafness, but which contains a good deal of Voltaire's
crispest writing, especially the definition of that English freedom which he sometimes used
to extol. With thirty guineas a year,[359] the materialist doctor Sidrac informs the unfortunate
Goudman, who has lost a living by the said deafness, "on peut dire tout ce qu'on pense de la
compagnie des Indes, du parlement, de nos colonies, du roi, de l'état en général, de l'homme
et de Dieu--ce qui est un grand amusement." But the piece itself would be more amusing if Voltaire
could let the Bible alone, though he does not here come under the stroke of Diderot's sledge-hammer
as he does in Amabed.

One seldom, however, echoes this last wish, and remembers the stroke referred to, more than
in reference to Le Taureau Blanc. Here, if there were nobody who reverenced the volume which
begins with Genesis and ends with Revelation, the whole thing would be utterly dead and stupid:
except for a few crispnesses of the Egyptian Mambrès, which could, almost without a single
exception, have been uttered on any other theme. The identification of Nebuchadnezzar with
the bull Apis is not precisely an effort of genius; but the assembling, and putting through
their paces, of Balaam's ass and Jonah's whale, the serpent of Eden, and the raven of the Ark,
with the three prophets Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel, and with an historical King Amasis and
an unhistorical Princess Amaside thrown in, is less a conte à dormir debout, as Voltaire's
countrymen and he himself would say, than a tale to make a man sleep when he is running at
full speed--a very dried poppy-head of the garden of tales. On the other hand, the very short
and very early Le Crocheteur Borgne, which, curiously enough, Voltaire never printed, and the
not much longer Cosi-Sancta, which he printed in his queer ostrich-like manner, are, though
a little naughty, quite nice; and have a freshness and demure grace about their naughtiness
which contrasts remarkably with the ugly and wearisome snigger of later work.

[Sidenote: Voltaire--the Kehl edition--and Plato.]

The half-dozen others,[360] filling scarce twenty pages between them, which conclude the usual
collection, need little comment; but a "Kehl" note to the first of them is for considerable
thoughts:

     M. de Voltaire s'est égayé quelquefois sur Platon, dont le
     galimatias, regardé autrefois comme sublime, a fait plus de
     mal au genre humain qu'on ne le croit communément.

One should not hurry over this, but muse a little. In copying the note, I felt almost inclined
to write "M. de Platon" in order to put the whole thing in a consistent key; for somehow "Plato"
by itself, even in the French form, transports one into such a very different world that adjustment
of clocks and compasses becomes at once necessary and difficult. "Galimatias" is good, "autrefois"
is possibly better, the "evils inflicted on the human race" better still, but égayé perhaps
best of all. The monkey, we know, makes itself gay with the elephant, and probably would do
so with the lion and the tiger if these animals had not an unpleasant way of dealing with jokers.
And the tomtit and canary have, no doubt, at least private agreement that the utterances of
the nightingale are galimatias, while the carrion crow thinks the eagle a fool for dwelling
so high and flying so much higher. But as for the other side of the matter, how thin and poor
and puerile even those smartest things of Voltaire's, some of which have been quoted and praised,
sound, if one attempts to read them after the last sentence of the Apology, or after passage
on passage of the rest of the "galimatias" of Plato!

Nevertheless, though you may answer a fool according to his folly, you should not, especially
when he is not a fool absolute, judge him solely thereby. When Voltaire was making himself
gay with Plato, with the Bible, and with some other things, he was talking, not merely of something
which he did not completely understand, but of something altogether outside the range of his
comprehension. But in the judgment of literature the process of "cancelling" does not exist.
A quality is not destroyed or neutralised by a defect, and, properly speaking (though it is
hard for the critic to observe this), to strike a balance between the two is impossible. It
is right to enter the non-values; but the values remain and require chief attention.

[Sidenote: An attempt at different evaluation of himself.]

From what has been already said, it will be clear that there is no disposition here to give
Voltaire anything short of the fullest credit, both as an individual writer of prose fiction
and as a link in the chain of its French producers. He worked for the most part in miniature,
and even Candide runs but to its bare hundred pages. But these are of the first quality in
their own way, and give the book the same position for the century, in satiric and comic fiction,
which Manon Lescaut holds in that of passion. That both should have taken this form, while,
earlier, Manon, if written at all, would probably have been a poem, and Candide would have
been a treatise, shows on the one side the importance of the position which the novel had assumed,
and on the other the immense advantages which it gave, as a kind, to the artist in literature.
I like poetry better than anything, but though the subject could have been, and often has been,
treated satirically in verse, a verse narrative could hardly have avoided inferiority, while
even Berkeley (who himself borrowed a little of novel-form for Alciphron) could not have made
Candide more effective than it is. It is of course true that Voltaire's powers as a "fictionist"
were probably limited in fact, to the departments, or the department, which he actually occupied,
and out of which he wisely did not go. He must have a satiric purpose, and he must be allowed
a very free choice of subject and seasoning. In particular, it may be noted that he has no
grasp whatever of individual character. Even Candide is but a "humour," and Pangloss a very
decided one; as are Martin, Gordon in L'Ingénu, and others. His women are all slightly varied
outline-sketches of what he thought women in general were, not persons. Plot he never attempted;
and racy as his dialogue often is, it is on the whole merely a setting for these very sparkles
of wit some of which have been quoted.

It is in these scintillations, after all, that the chief delight of his tales consists; and
though, as has been honestly confessed and shown, he learnt this to some extent from others,
he made the thing definitely his own. When the Babylonian public has been slightly "elevated"
by the refreshments distributed at the great tournament for the hand of the Princess Formosante,
it decides that war, etc., is folly, and that the essence of human nature is to enjoy itself,
"Cette excellente morale," says Voltaire gravely, "n'a jamais été démentie" (the words really
should be made to come at the foot of a page so that you might have to turn over before coming
to the conclusion of the sentence) "que par les faits." Again, in the description of the Utopia
of the Gangarides (same story), where not only men but beasts and birds are all perfectly wise,
well conducted, and happy, a paragraph of quite sober description, without any flinging up
of heels or thrusting of tongue in cheek, ends, "Nous avons surtout des perroquets qui prêchent
à merveille," and for once Voltaire exercises on himself the Swiftian control, which he too
often neglected, and drops his beloved satire of clerics after this gentle touch at it.[361]

He is of course not constantly at his best; but he is so often enough to make him, as was said
at the beginning, very delectable reading, especially for the second time and later, which
will be admitted to be no common praise. When you read him for the first time his bad taste,
his obsession with certain subjects, his repetition of the same gibes, and other things which
have been duly mentioned, strike and may disgust--will certainly more or less displease anybody
but a partisan on the same side. On a second or later reading you are prepared for them, and
either skip them altogether or pass them by without special notice, repeating the enjoyment
of what is better in an unalloyed fashion. And so doth the excellent old chestnut-myth, which
probably most of us have heard told with all innocence as an original witticism, justify itself,
and one should "prefer the second hour" of the reading to the first. But if there is a first
there will almost certainly be a second, and it will be a very great pity if there is no reading
at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Rousseau--the novel-character of the Confessions.]

According to the estimate of the common or vulgate (I do not say "vulgar," though in the best
English there is little or no difference) literary history, Rousseau[362] ranks far higher
in the scale of novel-writing than Voltaire, having left long and ambitious books of the kind
against Voltaire's handful of short, shorter, and shortest stories. It might be possible to
accept this in one sense, but in one which would utterly disconcert the usual valuers. The
Confessions, if it were not an autobiography, would be one of the great novels of the world.
A large part of it is probably or certainly "fictionised"; if the whole were fictitious, it
would lose much of its repulsiveness, retain (except for a few very matter-of-fact judges)
all its interest, and gain the enormous advantage of art over mere reportage of fact. Of course
Rousseau's art of another kind, his mere mastery of style and presentation, does redeem this
reportage to some extent; but this would remain if the thing were wholly fiction, and the other
art of invention, divination, mimesis--call it what you will--would come in. Yet it is not
worth while to be idly unlike other people and claim it as an actual novel. It may be worth
while to point out how it displays some of the great gifts of the novel-writer. The first of
these--the greatest and, in fact, the mother of all the rest--is the sheer faculty, so often
mentioned but not, alas! so invariably found, of telling the tale and holding the reader, not
with any glittering eye or any enchantment, white or black, but with the pure grasping--or,
as French admirably has it, "enfisting"--power of the tale itself. Round this there cluster--or,
rather, in this necessarily abide--the subsidiary arts of managing the various parts of the
story, of constructing characters sufficient to carry it on, of varnishing it with description,
and to some extent, though naturally to a lesser one than if it had been fiction pure and simple,
"lacing" it, in both senses of the word, with dialogue. Commonplace (but not the best commonplace)
taste often cries "Oh! if this were only true!" The wiser mind is fain sometimes--not often,
for things are not often good enough--to say, "Oh! if this were only false!"

[Sidenote: The ambiguous position of Émile.]

But if a severe auditor were to strike the Confessions out of Rousseau's novel-account to the
good, on the score of technical insufficiency or disqualification, he could hardly refuse to
do the same with Émile on the other side of the sheet. In fact its second title (de l'Éducation),
its opening remarks, and the vastly larger part of the text, not only do not pretend to be
a novel but frankly decline to be one. In what way exactly the treatise, from the mere assumption
of a supposed "soaring human boy" named Émile, who serves as the victim of a few Sandford-and-Merton-like
illustrations, burgeoned into the romance of actual novel-kind with Sophie in the Fifth Book,
and the purely novel-natured, but unfinished and hardly begun, sequel of Émile et Sophie ou
Les Solitaires, it is impossible to say. From the sketch of the intended conclusion of this
latter given by Prévost[363] it would seem that we have not lost much, though with Rousseau
the treatment is so constantly above the substance that one cannot tell. As it is, the novel
part is nearly worthless. Neither Émile nor Sophie is made in the least a live person; the
catastrophe of their at first ideal union might be shown, by an advocate of very moderate skill,
to be largely if not wholly due to the meddlesome, muddle-headed, and almost inevitably mischievous
advice given to them just after their marriage by their foolish Mentor; and one neither finds
nor foresees any real novel interest whatever. Anilities in the very worst style of the eighteenth
century--such as the story how Émile instigated mutiny in an Algerian slave-gang, failed, made
a noble protest, and instead of being impaled, flayed, burnt alive, or otherwise taught not
to do so, was made overseer of his own projects of reformed discipline--are sufficiently unrefreshing
in fact. And the sort of "double arrangement" foreshadowed in the professorial programme of
the unwritten part, where, in something like Davenant and Dryden's degradation of The Tempest,
Émile and Sophie, she still refusing to be pardoned her fault, are brought together after all,
and are married, in an actual though not consummated cross-bigamy, with a mysterious couple,
also marooned on a desert island, is the sort of thing that Rousseau never could have managed,
though Voltaire, probably to the discontent of Mrs. Grundy, could have done it in one way,
and Sir William Gilbert would have done it delightfully in another. But Jean-Jacques's absolute
lack of humour would have ensured a rather ghastly failure, relieved, it may be, by a few beautiful
passages.

[Sidenote: La Nouvelle Héloïse.]

If, therefore, Rousseau had nothing but Émile, or even nothing but Émile and the Confessions
to put to his credit, he could but obtain a position in our "utmost, last, provincial band,"
and that more because of his general literary powers than of special right. But, as everybody
knows, there is a third book among his works which, whether universally or only by a majority,
whether in whole or in part, whether with heavy deductions and allowances or with light ones,
has been reckoned among the greatest and most epoch-making novels of the world. The full title
of it is Julie, ou la Nouvelle Héloïse, ou Lettres de deux Amans, habitans d'une petite ville
au pied des Alpes, recueillies et publiées, par J. J. Rousseau.[364] Despite its immense fame,
direct and at second-hand--for Byron's famous outburst, though scarcely less rhetorical, is
decidedly more poetical than most things of his, and has inscribed itself in the general memory--one
rather doubts whether the book is as much read as it once was. Quotations, references, and
those half-unconscious reminiscences of borrowing which are more eloquent than anything else,
have not recently been very common either in English or in French. It has had the fate--elsewhere,
I think, alluded to--of one of the two kinds of great literature, that it has in a manner seeded
itself out. An intense love-novel--it is some time since we have seen one till the other day--would
be a descendant of Rousseau's book, but would not bear more than a family likeness to it. Yet
this, of itself, is a great testimony.

[Sidenote: Its numerous and grave faults.]

Except in rhetoric or rhapsody, the allowances and deductions above referred to must be heavy;
and, according to a custom honoured both by time and good result, it is well to get them off
first. That peculiarity of being a novelist only par interim, much more than Aramis was a mousquetaire,
appears, even in Julie, so glaringly as to be dangerous and almost fatal. The book fills, in
the ordinary one-volume editions, nearly five hundred pages of very small and very close print.
Of these the First Part contains rather more than a hundred, and it would be infinitely better
if the whole of the rest, except a few passages (which would be almost equally good as fragments),
were in the bosom of the ocean buried. Large parts of them are mere discussions of some of
Rousseau's own fads; clumsy parodies of Voltaire's satiric manners-painting; waterings out
of the least good traits in the hero and heroine; uninteresting and superfluous appearances
of the third and only other real person, Claire; a dreary account of Julie's married life;
tedious eccentricities of the impossible and not very agreeable Lord Edward Bomston, who shares
with Dickens's Lord Frederick Verisopht the peculiarity of being alternately a peer and a person
with a courtesy "Lord"-ship; a rather silly end for the heroine herself;[365] and finally,
a rather repulsive and quite incongruous acknowledgment of affection for the creature Saint-Preux,
with a refusal to "implement" it (as they say in Scotland) matrimonially, by Claire, who is
by this time a widow.[366] If mutilating books[367] were not a crime deserving terrible retribution
in this life or after it, one could be excused for tearing off the Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth,
and Sixth Parts, with the Amours de Lord Édouard which follow. If one was rich, one would be
amply justified in having a copy of Part I., and the fragments above indicated, printed for
oneself on vellum.

[Sidenote: The minor characters.]

But this is not all. Even the First Part--even the presentation of the three protagonists--is
open to some, and even to severe, criticism. The most guiltless, but necessarily much the least
important, is Claire. She is, of course, an obvious "borrow" from Richardson's lively second
heroines; but she is infinitely superior to them. It is at first sight, though not perhaps
for long, curious--and it is certainly a very great compliment to Madame de Warens or Vuarrens
and Madame d'Houdetot, and perhaps other objects of his affections--that Rousseau, cad as he
was, and impossible as it was for him to draw a gentleman, could and did draw ladies. It was
horribly bad taste in both Julie and Claire to love such a creature as Saint-Preux; but then
cela s'est vu from the time of the Lady of the Strachy downwards, if not from that of Princess
Michal. But Claire is faithful and true as steel, and she is lively without being, as Charlotte
Grandison certainly is, vulgar. She is very much more a really "reasonable woman," even putting
passion aside, than the somewhat sermonising and syllogising Julie; and it would have been
both agreeable and tormenting to be M. d'Orbe. (Tormenting because she only half-loved him,
and agreeable because she did love him a little, and, whether it was little or much, allowed
herself to be his.) He himself, slight and rather "put upon" as he is, is also much the most
agreeable of the "second" male characters. Of Bomston and Wolmar we shall speak presently;
and there is so little of the Baron d'Étange that one really does not know whether he was or
was not something more than the tyrannical husband and father, and the ill-mannered specimen
of the lesser nobility, that it pleased Saint-Preux or Rousseau to represent him as being.
He had provocation enough, even in the case of his otherwise hardly pardonable insolence to
Bomston.[368]

[Sidenote: The delinquencies of Saint-Preux.]

But Saint-Preux himself? How early was the obvious jest made that he is about as little of
a preux as he is of a saint? I have heard, or dreamt, of a schoolboy who, being accidentally
somewhat precocious in French, and having read the book, ejaculated, "What a sweep he is!"
and I remember no time of my life at which I should not have heartily agreed with that youth.
I do not suppose that either of us--though perhaps we ought to be ashamed of ourselves for
not doing so--founded our condemnation on Saint-Preux's "forgetfulness of all but love." That
is a "forfeit," in French and English sense alike, which has itself registered and settled
in various tariffs and codes, none of which concerns the present history. It is not even that
he is a most unreasonable creature now and then; that can be pardoned, being understood, though
he really does strain the benefit of amare et sapere etc. It is that, except when he is in
the altitudes of passion, and not always then, he never "knows how to behave," as the simple
and sufficient old phrase had it. If M. d'Étange had had the wits, and had deigned to do it,
he might even, without knowing his deepest cause of quarrel with the treacherous tutor, have
pointed out that Saint-Preux's claim to be one of God Almighty's gentlemen was as groundless
as his "proofs," in the French technical sense of gentility, were non-existent. It is impossible
to imagine anything in worse taste than his reply to the Baron's no doubt offensive letter,
and Julie's enclosed renunciation. Even the adoring Julie herself, and the hardly less adoring
Claire--the latter not in the least a prude, nor given to giving herself "airs"--are constantly
obliged to pull him up for his want of délicatesse. He is evidently a coxcomb, still more evidently
a prig; selfish beyond even that selfishness which is venial in a lover; not in the least,
though he can exceed in wine, a "good fellow," and in many ways thoroughly unmanly. A good
English school and college might have made him tolerable: but it is rather to be doubted, and
it is certain that his way as a transgressor would have been hard at both. As it is, he is
very largely the embodiment--and it is more charitable than uncharitable to regard him as largely
the cause--of the faults of the worst kind of French, and not quite only French, novel-hero
ever since.

[Sidenote: And the less charming points of Julie. Her redemption.]

One approaches Julie herself, in critical intent, with mixed feelings. One would rather say
nothing but good of her, and there is plenty of good to say: how much will be seen in a moment.
Most of what is not so good belongs, in fact, to the dreary bulk of sequel tacked on by mistaken
judgment to that more than true history of a hundred pages, which leaves her in despair, and
might well have left her altogether. Even here she is not faultless, quite independently of
her sins according to Mrs. Grundy and the Pharisees. If she had not been, as Claire herself
fondly but truly calls her, such a prêcheresse, she might not have fallen a victim to such
a prig. One never can quite forgive her for loving him, except on the all-excusing ground that
she loved him so much; and though she is perhaps not far beyond the licence of "All's fair,
in certain conditions," there is no doubt that, like her part-pattern Clarissa, she is not
passionately attached to the truth. It might be possible to add some cavils, but for the irresistible
plea just glanced at, which stops one.

Quia multum amavit! Nobody--at least no woman--had loved like that in a prose novel before;
nobody at all except Des Grieux, and he is but as a sketch to an elaborate picture. She will
wander after Pallas, and would like to think that she would like to be of the train of Dian
(one shudders at imagining the scowl and the shrug and the twist of the skirt of the goddess!).
But the kiss of Aphrodite has been on her, and has mastered her whole nature. How the thing
could be done, out of poetry, has always been a marvel to me; but I have explained it by the
supposition that the absolute impossibility of writing poetry at this time in French necessitated
the break-out in prose. Rousseau's wonderful style--so impossible to analyse, but so irresistible--does
much; the animating sense of his native scenery something. But, after all, what gives the thing
its irresistibleness is the strange command he had of Passion and of Sorrow--two words, the
first of which is actually, in the original sense, a synonym of the second, though it has been
expanded to cover the very opposite.

[Sidenote: And the better side of the book generally.]

But it would be unfair to Rousseau, especially in such a place as this, to confine the praise
of Julie as a novel to its exhibition of passion, or even to the charm of Julie herself. Within
its proper limits--which are, let it be repeated, almost if not quite exactly those of the
First Part--many other gifts of the particular class of artist are shown. The dangerous letter-scheme,
which lends itself so easily, and in the other parts surrenders itself so helplessly and hopelessly,
to mere "piffle" about this and that, is kept well in hand. Much as Rousseau owes to Richardson,
he has steered entirely clear of that system of word-for-word and incident-for-incident reporting
which makes the Englishman's work so sickening to some. You have enough of each and no more,
this happy mean affecting both dialogue and description. The plot (or rather the action) is
constantly present, probably managed, always enlivened by the imminence of disastrous discovery.
As has been already pointed out, one may dislike--or feel little interest in--some of the few
characters; but it is impossible to say that they are out of drawing or keeping. Saint-Preux,
objectionable and almost loathsome as he may be sometimes, is a thoroughly human creature,
and is undoubtedly what Rousseau meant him to be, for the very simple reason that he is (like
the Byronic hero who followed) what Rousseau wished to be, if not exactly what he was, himself.
Bomston is more of a lay figure; but then the Anglais philosophe de qualité of the French imagination
in the eighteenth century was a lay figure, and, as has been excellently said by De Quincey
in another matter, nothing can be wrong which conforms to the principles of its own ideal.
As for Julie and Claire, they once more

    Answer the ends of their being created.

Even the "talking-book" is here hardly excessive, and comes legitimately under the excuse of
showing how the relations between the hero and heroine originally got themselves established.[369]

[Sidenote: But little probability of more good work in novel from its author.]

Are we, then, from the excellence of the "Confessions" in pari materia and in ipsa of Julie,
to lament that Rousseau did not take to novel-writing as a special and serious occupation?
Probably not. The extreme weakness and almost fadeur of the strictly novel part of Émile, and
the going-off of Julie itself, are very open warnings; the mere absence of any other attempts
worth mentioning[370] is evidence of a kind; and the character of all the rest of the work,
and of all this part of the work but the opening of Julie, and even of that opening itself,
counsel abstention, here as everywhere, from quarrelling with Providence. Rousseau's superhuman
concentration on himself, while it has inspired the relevant parts of the Confessions and of
Julie, has spoilt a good deal else that we have, and would assuredly have spoilt other things
that we have not. It has been observed, by all acute students of the novel, that the egotistic
variety will not bear heavy crops of fruit by itself; and that it is incapable, or capable
with very great difficulty, of letting the observed and so far altruistic kind grow from the
same stool. Of what is sometimes called the dramatic faculty (though, in fact, it is only one
side of that),--the faculty which in different guise and with different means the general novelist
must also possess,--Rousseau had nothing. He could put himself in no other man's skin, being
so absolutely wrapped up in his own, which was itself much too sensitive to be disturbed, much
less shed. Anything or anybody that was (to use Mill's language) a permanent or even a temporary
possibility of sensation to him was within his power; anything out of immediate or closely
impending contact was not. Now some of the great novelists have the external power--or at least
the will to use that power--alone, others have had both; but Rousseau had the internal only,
and so was, except by miracle of intensive exercise, incapable of further range.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: The different case of Diderot.]

Neither of the disabilities which weighed on Voltaire and Rousseau--the incapacity of the former
to construct any complex character, and of the latter to portray any but his own, or some other
brought into intensest communion, actually or as a matter of wish, with his own--weighed upon
the third of the great trio of philosophe leaders. There is every probability that Diderot
might have been a very great novelist if he had lived a hundred years later; and not a little
evidence that he only missed being such, even as it was, because of that mysterious curse which
was epigrammatically expressed about him long ago (I really forget who said it first), "Good
pages, no good book." So far from being self-centred or of limited interests, he could, as
hardly any other man ever could, claim the hackneyed Homo sum, etc., as his rightful motto.
He had, when he allowed himself to give it fair play, an admirable gift of tale-telling; he
could create character, and set it to work, almost after the fashion of the very greatest novelists;
his universal interest and "curiosity" included such vivid appreciation of literature, and
of art, and of other things useful to the novel-writer, that he never could have been at a
loss for various kinds of "seasoning." He had keen observation, an admittedly marvellous flow
of ideas, and a style which (though, like everything else about him, careless) was of singular
vigour and freshness when, once more, he let it have fair play. But his time, his nature, and
his circumstances combined to throw in his way traps and snares and nets which he could not,
or would not, avoid. His anti-religiosity, though sometimes greatly exaggerated, was a bad
stumbling-block; although he was free from the snigger of Voltaire and of Sterne, you could
not prevent him, as Horace Walpole complains of his distinguished sire, from blurting out the
most improper remarks and stories at the most inconvenient times and in the most unsuitable
companies; while his very multiscience, and his fertility of thought and imagination, kept
him in a whirl which hindered his "settling" to anything. Although in one sense he had the
finest and wisest critical taste of any man then living--I do not bar even Gray or even Lessing--his
taste in some other ways was utterly untrustworthy and sometimes horribly bad; while even his
strictly critical faculty seems never to have been exercised on his own books--a failure forming
part of the "ostrich-like indifference" with which he produced and abandoned them.[371]

[Sidenote: His gifts and the waste of them.]

It is sometimes contended, and in many cases, no doubt, is the fact, that "Selections" are
disgraceful and unscholarly. But what has been said will show that this is an exceptional case.
The present writer waded through the whole of twenty-volume edition of Assézat and Tourneux
when it first appeared, and is very glad he did; nor is there perhaps one volume (he does not
say one page, chapter, or even work) which he has not revisited more or fewer times during
the forty years in which (alas! for the preterite) they remained on his shelves. But it is
scarcely to be expected that every one, that many, or that more than a very few readers, have
done or will do the same. It so happens, however, that Génin's Oeuvres Choisies--though it
has been abused by some anti-Ydgrunites as too much Bowdlerised--gives a remarkably full and
satisfactory idea of this great and seldom[372] quite rightly valued writer. It must have cost
much, besides use of paste and scissors, to do; for the extracts are often very short, and
the bulk of matter to be thoroughly searched for extraction is, as has just been said, huge.
A third volume might perhaps be added;[373] but the actual two are far from unrepresentative,
while the Bowdlerising is by no means ultra-Bowdlerish.

[Sidenote: The various display of them.]

The reader, even of this selection, will see how, in quite miscellaneous or heterogeneous writing,
Diderot bubbles out into a perfectly told tale or anecdote, no matter what the envelope (as
we may call it) of this tale or anecdote may be. All his work is more or less like conversation:
and these excursus are like the stories which, if good, are among the best, just as, if bad,
they are the worst, sets-off to conversation itself. Next to these come the longer histoires--as
one would call them in the Heroic novel and its successors--things sometimes found by themselves,
sometimes ensconced in larger work[374]--the story of Desroches and Mme. de la Carlière, Les
Deux Amis de Bourbonne, the almost famous Le Marquis des Arcis et Mme. de la Pommeraye, of
which more may be said presently; and things which are not exactly tales, but which have the
tale-quality in part, like the charming Regrets sur ma Vieille Robe de Chambre, Ceci n'est
pas un conte, etc. Thirdly, and to be spoken of in more detail, come the things that are nearest
actual novels, and in some cases are called so, Le Neveu de Rameau, the "unspeakable" Bijoux
Indiscrets, Jacques le Fataliste (the matrix of Le Marquis des Arcis) and La Religieuse.

The "unspeakable" one does not need much speaking from any point of view. If it is not positively
what Carlyle called it, "the beastliest of all dull novels, past, present, or to come," it
really would require a most unpleasant apprenticeship to scavenging in order to discover a
dirtier and duller. The framework is a flat imitation of Crébillon, the "insets" are sometimes
mere pornography, and the whole thing is evidently scribbled at a gallop--it was actually a
few days' work, to get money, from some French Curll or Drybutter, to give (the appropriateness
of the thing at least is humorous) to the mistress of the moment, a Madame de Puisieux,[375]
who, if she was like Crébillon's heroines in morals, cannot have been like the best of them
in manners. Its existence shows, of course, Diderot's worst side, that is to say, the combination
of want of breeding with readiness to get money anyhow. If it is worth reading at all, which
may be doubted, it is to show the real, if equivocal, value of Crébillon himself. For it is
vulgar, which he never is.

[Sidenote: Le Neveu de Rameau.]

Le Neveu de Rameau, has only touches of obscenity, and it has been enormously praised by great
persons. It is very clever, but it seems to me that, as a notable critic is said to have observed
of something else, "it has been praised quite enough." It is a sketch, worked out in a sort
of monologue,[376] of something like Diderot's own character without his genius and without
his good fellowship--a gutter-snipe of art and letters possessed of some talent and of infinite
impudence. It shows Diderot's own power of observation and easy fluid representation of character
and manners, but not, as I venture to think, much more.

[Sidenote: Jacques le Fataliste.]

Jacques le Fataliste is what may be called, without pedantry or preciousness, eminently a "document."
It is a document of Diderot's genius only indirectly (save in part), and to those who can read
not only in the lines but between them: it is a document, directly, of the insatiable and restless
energy of the man, and of the damage which this restlessness, with its accompanying and inevitable
want of self-criticism, imposed upon that genius. Diderot, though he did not rhapsodise about
Sterne as he rhapsodised about Richardson, was, like most of his countrymen then, a great admirer
of "Tristram," and in an evil hour he took it into his head to Shandyise. The book starts with
an actual adaptation of Sterne,[377] which is more than once repeated; its scheme--of a master
(who is as different as possible from my Uncle Toby, except that when not in a passion he is
rather good-natured, and at almost all times very easily humbugged) and a man (who is what
Trim never is, both insolent and indecent)--is at least partially the same. But the most constant
and the most unfortunate imitation is of Sterne's literally eccentric, or rather zigzag and
pillar-to-post, fashion of narration. In the Englishman's own hands, by some prestidigitation
of genius, this never becomes boring, though it probably would have become so if either book
had been finished; for which reason we may be quite certain that it was not only his death
which left both in fragments. In the hands of his imitators the boredom--simple or in the form
of irritation--has been almost invariable;[378] and with all his great intellectual power,
his tale-telling faculty, his bonhomie, and other good qualities, Diderot has not escaped it--has,
in fact, rushed upon it and compelled it to come in. It is comparatively of little moment that
the main ostensible theme--the very unedifying account of the loves, or at least the erotic
exercises, of Jacques and his master--is deliberately, tediously, inartistically interrupted
and "put off." The great feature of the book, which has redeemed it with some who would otherwise
condemn it entirely, the Arcis and La Pommeraye episode (v. inf.), is handled after a fashion
which suggests Mr. Ruskin's famous denunciation in another art. The inkpot is "flung in the
face of the public" by a purely farcical series of interruptions, occasioned by the affairs
of the inn-landlady, who tells the story, by her servants, dog, customers, and Heaven only
knows what else; while the minor incidents and accidents of the book are treated in the same
way, in and out of proportion to their own importance; the author's "simple plan," though by
no means "good old rule," being that everything shall be interrupted. Although, in the erotic
part, the author never returns quite to his worst Bijoux Indiscrets style, he once or twice
goes very near it, except that he is not quite so dull; and when the book comes to an end in
a very lame and impotent fashion (the farce being kept up to the last, and even this end being
"recounted" and not made part of the mainly dialogic action), one is rather relieved at there
being no more. One has seen talent; one has almost glimpsed genius; but what one has been most
impressed with is the glaring fashion in which both the certainty and the possibility have
been thrown away.

[Sidenote: Its "Arcis-Pommeraye" episode.]

The story which has been referred to in passing as muddled, or, to adopt a better French word,
for which we have no exact equivalent, affublé (travestied and overlaid) with eccentricities
and interruptions, the Histoire of the Marquis des Arcis and the Marquise de la Pommeraye,
has received a great deal of praise, most of which it deserves. The Marquis and the Marquise
have entered upon one of the fashionable liaisons which Crébillon described in his own way.
Diderot describes this one in another. The Marquis gets tired--it is fair to say that he has
offered marriage at the very first, but Madame de la Pommeraye, a widow with an unpleasant
first experience of the state, has declined it. He shows his tiredness in a gentlemanly manner,
but not very mistakably. His mistress, who is not at first femina furens, but who possesses
some feminine characteristics in a dangerous degree, as he might perhaps have found out earlier
if he had been a different person, determines to make sure of it. She intimates her tiredness,
and the Marquis makes his first step downwards by jumping at the release. They are--the old,
old hopeless folly!--to remain friends, but friends only. But she really loves him, and after
almost assuring herself that he has really ceased to love her (which, in the real language
of love, means that he has never loved her at all), devises a further, a very clever, but a
rather diabolical system of last proof, involving vengeance if it fails. She has known, in
exercises of charity (the femme du monde has seldom quite abandoned these), a mother and daughter
who, having lost their means, have taken to a questionable, or rather a very unquestionable
manner of life, keeping a sort of private gaming-house, and extending to those frequenters
of it who choose, what the late George Augustus Sala not inelegantly called, in an actual police-court
instance, "the thorough hospitality characteristic of their domicile." She prevails on them
to leave the house, get rid of all their belongings (down to clothes) which could possibly
be identified, change their name, move to another quarter of Paris, and set up as dévotes under
the full protection of the local clergy. Then she manages an introduction, of an apparently
accidental kind, to the Marquis. He falls in love at once with the daughter, who is very pretty,
and with masculine (or at least some masculine) fatuity, makes Madame de la Pommeraye his confidante.
She gives him rope, but he uses it, of course, only to hang himself. He tries the usual temptations;
but though the mother at least would not refuse them, Madame de la Pommeraye's hand on the
pair is too tight. At last he offers marriage, and--with her at least apparent consent--is
married. The next day she tells him the truth. But her diabolism fails. At first there is of
course a furious outburst. But the girl is beautiful, affectionate, and humble; the mother
is pensioned off; the Marquis and Marquise des Arcis retire for some years to those invaluable
terres, after a sojourn at which everything is forgotten; and the story ends. Diderot, by not
too skilfully throwing in casuistical attacks and defences of the two principal characters,
but telling us nothing of Madame de la Pommeraye's subsequent feelings or history, does what
he can, unluckily after his too frequent fashion, to spoil or at least to blunt his tale. It
is not necessary to imitate him by discussing the pros and cons at length. I think myself that
the Marquis, both earlier and later, is made rather too much of a benêt, or, in plain English,
a nincompoop. But nincompoops exist: in fact how many of us are not nincompoops in certain
circumstances? Madame de la Pommeraye is, I fear, rather true, and is certainly sketched with
extraordinary ability. On a larger scale the thing would probably, at that time and by so hasty
and careless a workman, have been quite spoilt. But it is obviously the skeleton--and something
more--of a really great novel.

[Sidenote: La Religieuse.]

It may seem that a critic who speaks in this fashion, after an initial promise of laudation,
is a sort of Balaam topsyturvied, and merely curses where he is expected to bless. But ample
warning was given of the peculiar position of Diderot, and when we come to his latest known
and by far his best novel, La Religieuse, the paradox (he was himself very fond of paradoxes,[379]
though not of the wretched things which now disgrace the name) remains. The very subject of
the book, or of the greatest part of it, was for a long time, if it is not still, taboo; and
even if this had not been the case, it has other drawbacks. It originated in, and to some extent
still retains traces of, one of the silly and ill-bred "mystifications" in which the eighteenth
and early nineteenth century delighted.[380] It is, at least in appearance, badly tainted with
purpose; and while it is actually left unfinished, the last pages of it, as they stand, are
utterly unworthy of the earlier part, and in fact quite uninteresting. Momus or Zoilus must
be allowed to say so much: but having heard him, let us cease to listen to the half-god or
the whole philologist.

[Sidenote: Its story.]

Yet La Religieuse, for all its drawbacks, is almost a great, and might conceivably have been
a very great book. Madame d'Holbach is credited by Diderot's own generosity with having suggested
its crowning mot,[381] and her influence may have been in other ways good by governing the
force and fire, so often wasted or ill-directed, of Diderot's genius. Soeur Sainte-Suzanne
is the youngest daughter of a respectable middle-class family. She perceives, or half-perceives
(for, though no fool, she is a guileless and unsuspicious creature), that she is unwelcome
there; the most certain sign of which is that, while her sisters are married and dowered handsomely,
she is condemned to be a nun. She has, though quite real piety, no "vocation," and though she
allows herself to be coaxed through her novitiate, she at last, in face of almost insuperable
difficulties, summons up courage enough to refuse, at the very altar, the final profession.
There is, of course, a terrible scandal; she has more black looks in the family than ever,
and at last her mother confesses that she is an illegitimate child, and therefore hated by
her putative father, whose love for his wife, however, has induced him to forgive her, and
not actually renounce (as indeed, by French law, he could not) the child. Broken in heart and
spirit, Suzanne at last accepts her doom. She is fortunate in one abbess, but the next persecutes
her, brings all sorts of false accusations against her, strips, starves, imprisons, and actually
tortures her by means of the amende honorable. She manages to get her complaints known and
to secure a counsel, and though she cannot obtain liberation from her vows, the priest who
conducts the ecclesiastical part of the enquiry is a just man, and utterly repudiates the methods
of persecution, while he and her lay lawyer procure her transference to another convent. Here
her last trial (except those of the foolish post-scrap, as we may call it) begins, as well
as the most equivocal and the greatest part of the book. Her new superior is in every respect
different from any she has known--of a luxurious temperament, good-natured, though capricious,
and inclined to be very much too affectionate. Her temptation of the innocent Suzanne is defeated
by this very innocence, and by timely revelation, though the revealer does not know what she
reveals, to a "director"; and the wayward and corrupted fancy turns by degrees to actual madness,
which proves fatal, Suzanne remaining unharmed, though a piece of not inexcusable eavesdropping
removes the ignorance of her innocence.

[Sidenote: A hardly missed, if missed, masterpiece.]

If the subject be not simply ruled out, and the book indexed for silence, it is practically
impossible to suggest that it could have been treated better. Even the earlier parts, which
could easily have been made dull, are not so; and it is noteworthy that, anti-religionist as
Diderot was, and directly as the book is aimed at the conventual system,[382] all the priests
who are introduced are men of honour, justice, and humanity. But the wonder is in the treatment
of the "scabrous" part of the matter by the author of Diderot's other books. Whether Madame
d'Holbach's[383] influence, as has been suggested, was more widely and subtly extended than
we know, or whatever else may be the cause, there is not a coarse word, not even a coarsely
drawn situation, in the whole. Suzanne's innocence is, in the subtlest manner, prevented from
being in the least bête. The fluctuations and ficklenesses of the abbess's passion, and in
a less degree of that of another young nun, whom Suzanne has partially ousted from her favour,
are marvellously and almost inoffensively drawn, and the stages by which erotomania passes
into mania general and mortal, are sketched slightly, but with equal power. There is, I suppose,
hardly a book which one ought to discommend to the young person more than La Religieuse. There
are not many in which the powers required by the novelist, in delineating morbid, and not only
morbid, character, are more brilliantly shown.

It is not the least remarkable thing about this remarkable book, and not the least characteristic
of its most remarkable author, that its very survival has something extraordinary about it.
Grimm, who was more likely than any one else to know, apparently thought it was destroyed or
lost; it never appeared at all during Diderot's life, nor for a dozen years after his death,
nor till seven after the outbreak of the Revolution, and six after the suppression of the religious
orders in France. That it might have brought its author into difficulties is more than probable;
but the undisguised editor of the Encyclopédie, the author, earlier, of the actually disgraceful
Bijoux Indiscrets, and the much more than suspected principal begetter of the Système de la
Nature, could not have been much influenced by this. The true cause of its abscondence, as
in so much else of his work, was undoubtedly that ultra-Bohemian quality of indifference which
distinguished Diderot--the first in a way, probably for ever the greatest, and, above all,
the most altruistic of literary Bohemians. Ask him to do something definite, especially for
somebody else's profit, to be done off-hand, and it was done. Ask him to bear the brunt of
a dangerous, laborious, by no means lucrative, but rather exciting adventure, and he would,
one cannot quite say consecrate, but devote (which has two senses) his life to it. But set
him to elaborate artistic creation, confine him to it, and expect him to finish it, and you
were certain to be disappointed. At another time, even at this time, if his surroundings and
his society, his education and his breeding had been less unfortunate, he might, as it seems
to me, have become a very great novelist indeed. As it is, he is a great possibility of novel
and of much other writing, with occasional outbursts of actuality. The Encyclopédie itself,
for aught I care, might have gone in all its copies, and with all possibility of recovering
or remembering it on earth, to the place where so many people at the time would have liked
to send it. But in the rest of him, and even in some of his own Encyclopædia articles,[384]
there is much of quite different stuff. And among the various gifts, critical and creative,
which this stuff shows, not the least, I think, was the half-used and mostly ill-used gift
of novel-writing.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: The successors--Marmontel.]

What has been called the second generation of the philosophes, who were naturally the pupils
of the first, "were not like [that] first," that is to say, they did not reproduce the special
talents of their immediate masters in this department of ours, save in two instances. Diderot's
genius did not propagate itself in the novel way at all[385]: indeed, as has been said, his
best novel was not known till this second generation itself was waning. The most brilliant
of his direct hearers, Joubert, took to another department; or rather, in his famous Pensées,
isolated and perfected the utterances scattered through the master's immense and disorderly
work. Naigeon, the most devoted, who might have taken for his motto a slight alteration of
the Mahometan confession of faith, "There is no God; but there is only one Diderot, and I am
his prophet," was a dull fellow, and also, to adopt a Carlylian epithet, a "dull-snuffling"
one, who could not have told a neck-tale if the Hairibee of the guillotine had caught him and
given him a merciful chance. Voltaire in Marmontel, and Rousseau in Bernardin de Saint-Pierre,
were more fortunate, though both the juniors considerably transformed their masters' fashions;
and Marmontel was always more or less, and latterly altogether, an apostate from the principle
that the first and last duty of man is summed up in écrasons l'infâme.

This latter writer has had vicissitudes both in English and French appreciation. We translated
him early, and he had an immense influence on the general Edgeworthian school, and on Miss
Edgeworth herself. Much later Mr. Ruskin "took him up."[386] But neither his good nor his bad
points have, for a long time, been such as greatly to commend themselves, either to the major
part of the nineteenth century, or to what has yet passed of the twentieth, on either side
of the channel.

He was, no doubt, only a second-class man of letters, and though he ranks really high in this
class, he was unfortunately much influenced by more or less passing fashions, fads, and fancies
of his time--sensibilité (see next chapter) philosophism, politico-philanthropic economy, and
what not. He was also much of a "polygraph," and naturally a good deal of his polygraphy does
not concern us, though parts of his Memoirs, especially the rather well-known accounts of his
sufferings as a new-comer[387] in the atrocious Bastille, show capital tale-telling faculty.
His unequal criticism, sometimes very acute, hardly concerns us at all; his Essai sur les Romans
being very disappointing.[388] But he wrote not a little which must, in different ways and
"strengths," be classed as actual fiction, and this concerns us pretty nearly, both as evidencing
that general set towards the novel which is so important, and also in detail.

[Sidenote: His "Telemachic" imitations worth little.]

It divides itself quite obviously into two classes, the almost didactic matter of Bélisaire
and Les Incas, and the still partly didactic, but much more "fictionised" Contes Moraux. The
first part (which is evidently of the family of Télémaque) may be rapidly dismissed. Except
for its good French and good intentions, it has long had, and is likely always to have, very
little to say for itself. We have seen that Prévost attempted a sort of quasi-historical novel.
Of actual history there is little in Bélisaire, rather more in Les Incas. But historical fact
and story-telling art are entirely subordinated in both to moral purpose, endless talk about
virtue and the affections and justice and all the rest of it--the sort of thing, in short,
which provoked the immortal outburst, "In the name of the Devil and his grandmother, be virtuous
and have done with it!" There is, as has just been said, a great deal of this in the Contes
also; but fortunately there is something else.

[Sidenote: The best of his Contes Moraux worth a good deal.]

The something else is not to be found in the "Sensibility" parts,[389] and could not be expected
to be. They do, indeed, contain perhaps the most absolutely ludicrous instance of the absurdest
side of that remarkable thing, except Mackenzie's great trouvaille of the press-gang who unanimously
melted into tears[390] at the plea of an affectionate father. Marmontel's masterpiece is not
so very far removed in subject from this. It represents a good young man, who stirs up the
timorous captain and crew of a ship against an Algerine pirate, and in the ensuing engagement,
sabre in hand, makes a terrible carnage: "As soon as he sees an African coming on board, he
runs to him and cuts him in half, crying, 'My poor mother!'" The filial hero varies this a
little, when "disembowelling" the Algerine commander, by requesting the Deity to "have pity
on" his parent--a proceeding faintly suggestive of a survival in his mind of the human-sacrifice
period.

Fortunately, as has been said, it is not always thus: and some of the tales are amusing in
almost the highest degree, being nearly as witty as Voltaire's, and entirely free from ill-nature
and sculduddery. Not that Marmontel--though a great advocate for marriage, and even (for a
Frenchman of his time) wonderfully favourable to falling in love before marriage--pretends
to be altogether superior to the customs of his own day. We still sometimes have the "Prendre-Avoir-Quitter"
series of Crébillon,[391] though with fewer details; and Mrs. Newcome would have been almost
more horrified than she was at Joseph Andrews by the perusal of one of Marmontel's most well-intentioned
things, Annette et Lubin. But he never lays himself out for attractions of a doubtful kind,
and none of his best stories, even when they may sometimes involve bowing in the house of Ashtoreth
as well as that of Rimmon, derive their bait from this kind. Indeed they rather "assume and
pass it by" as a fashion of the time.

[Sidenote: Alcibiade ou le Moi.]

We may take three or four of them as examples. One is the very first of the collection, Alcibiade
ou le Moi. Hardly anybody need be told that the Alcibiades of the tale, though nominally, is
not in the least really the Alcibiades of history, or that his Athens is altogether Paris;
while his Socrates is a kind of philosophe, the good points of Voltaire, Rousseau, and Diderot
being combined with the faults of none of them, and his ladies are persons who--with one exception--simply
could not have existed in Greece. This Alcibiades wishes to be loved "for himself," and is
(not without reason) very doubtful whether he ever has been, though he is the most popular
and "successful" man in Athens. His avoir, for the moment, is concerned with a "Prude." (Were
there prudes in Greece? I think Diogenes would have gladly lent his lantern for the search.)
He is desperately afraid that she only loves him for herself. He determines to try her; takes
her, not at her deeds, but at her words, which are, of course, such as would have made the
Greeks laugh as inextinguishably as their gods once did. She expresses gratitude for his unselfishness,
but is anything but pleased. Divers experiments are tried by her, and when at last he hopes
she will not tempt him any more, exclaiming that he is really "l'amant le plus fidèle, le plus
tendre et le plus respectueux" ... "et le plus sot," adds she, sharply, concluding the conversation
and shutting her, let us say, doors[392] on him.

He is furious, and tries "Glicerie" (the form might be more Greek), an ingénue of fifteen,
who was "like a rose," who had attracted already the vows of the most gallant youths, etc.
The most brilliant of these youths instantly retire before the invincible Alcibiades. But in
the first place she wishes that before "explanations"[393] take place, a marriage shall be
arranged; while he, oddly enough, wishes that the explanations should precede the hymen. Also
she is particular about the consent of her parents: and, finally, when he asks her whether
she will swear constancy against every trial, to be his, and his only, whatever happens, she
replies, with equal firmness and point, "Never!" So he is furious again. But there is a widow,
and, as we have seen in former cases, there was not, in the French eighteenth century, the
illiberal prejudice against widows expressed by Mr. Weller. She is, of course, inconsolable
for her dear first, but admits, after a time, the possibility of a dear second. Only it must
be kept secret as yet. For a time Alcibiades behaves nobly, but somehow or other he finds that
everybody knows the fact; he is treated by his lady-love with obvious superiority; and breaks
with her. An interlude with a "magistrate's" wife, on less proper and more Crébillonish lines,
is not more successful. So one day meeting by the seashore a beautiful courtesan, Erigone,
he determines, in the not contemptible language of that single-speech poetess, Maria del Occidente,
to "descend and sip a lower draught." He is happy after a fashion with her for two whole months:
but at the end of that time he is beaten in a chariot race, and, going to Erigone for consolation,
finds the winner's vehicle at her door. Socrates, on being consulted, recommends Glicerie as,
after all, the best of them, in a rather sensible discourse. But the concluding words of the
sage and the story are, as indeed might be expected from Xanthippe's husband, not entirely
optimist: "If your wife is well conducted and amiable, you will be a happy man; if she is ill-tempered
and a coquette, you will become a philosopher--so you must gain in any case." An "obvious,"
perhaps, but a neat and uncommonly well-told story.

[Sidenote: Soliman the Second.]

Soliman the Second is probably the best known of Marmontel's tales, and it certainly has great
merits. It is hardly inferior in wit to Voltaire, and is entirely free from the smears of uncomeliness
and the sniggers of bad taste which he would have been sure to put in. The subject is, of course,
partly historical, though the reader of Knollys (and one knows more unhappy persons) will look
in vain there, not, indeed, for Roxelana, but for the nez retroussé, which is the important
point of the story. The great Sultan tires of his Asiatic harem, complaisant but uninteresting,
and orders European damsels to be caught or bought for him. The most noteworthy of the catch
or batch are Elmire, Delia, and Roxelane. Elmire comes first to Soliman's notice, charms him
by her sentimental ways, and reigns for a time, but loses her piquancy, and (by no means wholly
to her satisfaction) is able to avail herself of the conditional enfranchisement, and return
to her country, which his magnanimity has granted her. Her immediate supplanter, Delia, is
an admirable singer, and possessed of many of the qualifications of an accomplished hetæra.
But for that very reason the Sultan tires of her likewise; and for the same, she is not inconsolable
or restive: indeed she acts as a sort of Lady Pandara, if not to introduce, at any rate to
tame, the third, Roxelane, a French girl of no very regular beauty, but with infinite attractions,
and in particular possessed of what Mr. Dobson elegantly calls "a madding ineffable nose" of
the retroussé type.

The first thing the Sultan hears of this damsel is that the Master of the Eunuchs cannot in
the least manage her; for she merely laughs at all he says. The Sultan, out of curiosity, orders
her to be brought to him, and she immediately cries: "Thank Heaven! here is a face like a man's.
Of course you are the sublime Sultan whose slave I have the honour to be? Please cashier this
disgusting old rascal." To which extremely irreverent address Soliman makes a dignified reply
of the proper kind, including due reference to "obedience" and his "will." This brings down
a small pageful of raillery from the young person, who asks "whether this is Turkish gallantry?"
suggests that the restrictions of the seraglio involve a fear that "the skies should rain men,"
and more than hints that she should be very glad if they did. For the moment Soliman, though
much taken with her, finds no way of saving his dignity except by a retreat. The next time
he sends for her, or rather announces his own arrival, she tells the messenger to pack himself
off: and when the Commander of the Faithful does visit her and gives a little good advice,
she is still incorrigible. She will, once more, have nothing to do with the words dois and
devoir. When asked if she knows what he is and what she is, she answers with perfect aplomb,
"What we are? You are powerful, and I am pretty; so we are quite on an equality." In the most
painfully confidential and at the same time quite decent manner, she asks him what he can possibly
do with five hundred wives? and, still more intolerably, tells him that she likes his looks,
and has already loved people who were not worth him. The horror with which this Turkish soldan,
himself so full of sin, ejaculates, "Vous avez aimé?" may be easily imagined, and again she
simply puts him to flight. When he gets over it a little, he sends Delia to negotiate. But
Roxelane tells the go-between to stay to supper, declaring that she herself does not feel inclined
for a tête-à-tête yet, and finally sends him off with this obliging predecessor and substitute,
presenting her with the legendary handkerchief, which she has actually borrowed from the guileless
Padishah. There is some, but not too much more of it; there can but be one end; and as he takes
her to the Mosque to make her legitimate Sultana, quite contrary to proper Mussulman usage,
he says to himself, "Is it really possible that a little retroussé nose should upset the laws
of an empire?" Probably, though Marmontel does not say so, he looked down at the said nose,
as he communed with himself, and decided that cause and effect were not unworthy of each other.
There is hardly a righter and better hit-off tale of the kind, even in French.

[Sidenote: The Four Flasks.]

"The Four Flasks" or "The Adventures of Alcidonis of Megara," a sort of outside fairy tale,
is good, but not quite so good as either of the former. Alcidonis has a fairy protectress,
if not exactly godmother, who gives him the flasks in question to use in amatory adventures.
One, with purple liquor in it, sets the drinker in full tide of passion; the second (rose-coloured)
causes a sort of flirtation; the third (blue) leads to sentimental and moderate affection;
and the last (pure white) recovers the experimenter from the effects of any of the others.
He tries all, and all but the last are unsatisfactory, though, much as in the case of Alcibiades
and Glicerie, the blue has a second chance, the results of which are not revealed. This is
the least important of the group, but is well told.

[Sidenote: Heureusement.]

There is also much good in Heureusement, the nearest to a "Crébillonnade" of all, though the
Crébillonesque situations are ingeniously broken off short. It is told by an old marquise[394]
to an almost equally old abbé, her crony, who only at the last discovers that, long ago, he
himself was very nearly the shepherd of the proverbial hour. And Le Mari Sylphe, which is still
more directly connected with one of Crébillon's actual pieces, and with some of the weaker
stories (v. sup.) of the Cabinet des Fées, would be good if it were not much too long. Others
might be mentioned, but my own favourite, though it has nothing quite so magnetic in it as
the nez de Roxelane, is Le Philosophe Soi-disant, a sort of apology for his own clan, in a
satire on its less worthy members, which may seem to hit rather unfairly at Rousseau, but which
is exceedingly amusing.

[Sidenote: Le Philosophe Soi-disant.]

Clarice--one of those so useful young widows of whom the novelists of this time might have
pleaded that they took their ideas of them from the Apostle St. Paul--has for some time been
anxious to know a philosophe, though she has been warned that there are philosophes and philosophes,
and that the right kind is neither common nor very fond of society. She expresses surprise,
and says that she has always heard a philosophe defined as an odd creature who makes it his
business to be like nobody else. "Oh," she is told, "there is no difficulty about that kind,"
and one, by name Ariste, is shortly added to her country-house party. She politely asks him
whether he is not a philosophe, and whether philosophy is not a very beautiful thing? He replies
(his special line being sententiousness) that it is simply the knowledge of good and evil,
or, if she prefers it, Wisdom. "Only that?" says wicked Doris; but Clarice helps him from replying
to the scoffer by going on to ask whether the fruit of Wisdom is not happiness? "And, Madame,
the making others happy." "Dear me," says naïve Lucinde, half under her breath, "I must be
a philosophe, for I have been told a hundred times that it only depended on myself to be happy
by making others happy." There is more wickedness from Doris; but Ariste, with a contemptuous
smile, explains that the word "happiness" has more than one meaning, and that the philosophe
kind is different from that at the disposal and dispensation of a pretty woman. Clarice, admitting
this, asks what his kind of happiness is? The company then proceeds, in the most reprehensible
fashion, to "draw" the sage: and they get from him, among other things, an admission that he
despises everybody, and an unmistakable touch of disgust when somebody speaks of "his semblables."[395]

Clarice, however, still plays the amiable and polite hostess, lets him take her to dinner,
and says playfully that she means to reconcile him to humanity. He altogether declines. Man
is a vicious beast, who persecutes and devours others, he says, making all the time a particularly
good dinner while denouncing the slaughter of animals, and eulogising the "sparkling brook"
while getting slightly drunk. He declaims against the folly and crime of the modern world in
not making philosophers kings, and announces his intention of seeking complete solitude. But
Clarice, still polite, decides that he must stay with them a little while, in order to enlighten
and improve the company.

After this, Ariste, in an alley alone, to digest his dinner and walk off his wine, persuades
himself that Clarice has fallen in love with him, and that, to secure her face and her fortune,
he has only got to go on playing the misanthrope and give her a chance of "taming the bear."
The company, perfectly well knowing his thoughts, determine to play up to them--not for his
greater glory; and Clarice, not quite willingly, agrees to take the principal part. In a long
tête-à-tête he makes his clumsy court, airs his cheap philosophy, and lets by no means the
mere suggestion of a cloven foot appear, on the subject of virtue and vice. However, she stands
it, though rather disgusted, and confesses to him that people are suggesting a certain Cléon,
a member of the party, as her second husband; whereon he decries marriage, but proposes himself
as a lover. She reports progress, and is applauded; but the Présidente de Ponval, another widow,
fat, fifty, fond of good fare, possessed of a fine fortune, but very far from foolish, vows
that she will make the greatest fool of Ariste. Cléon, however, accepts his part; and appears
to be much disturbed at Clarice's attentions to Ariste, who, being shown to his room, declaims
against its luxuries, but avails himself of them very cheerfully. In the morning he, though
rather doubtfully, accepts a bath; but on his appearance in company Clarice makes remonstrances
on his dress, etc., and actually prevails on him to let a valet curl his hair. This is an improvement;
but she does not like his brown coat.[396] He must write to Paris and order a suit of gris-de-lin
clair, and after some wrangling he consents. But now the Présidente takes up the running. After
expressing the extremest admiration for his coiffure, she makes a dead set at him, tells him
she wants a second husband whom she can love for himself, and goes off with a passionate glance,
the company letting him casually know that she has ten thousand crowns a year. He affects to
despise this, which is duly reported to her next morning. She vows vengeance; but he dreams
of her (and the crowns) meanwhile, and with that morning the new suit arrives. He is admiring
himself in it when Cléon comes in, and throws himself on his mercy. He adores Clarice; Ariste
is evidently gaining fatally on her affections; will he not be generous and abstain from using
his advantages? But if he is really in love Cléon will give her up.

The hook is, of course, more than singly baited and barbed. Ariste can at once play the magnanimous
man, and be rewarded by the Présidente's ten thousand a year. He will be off with Clarice and
on with Mme. de Ponval, whom he visits in his new splendour. She admires it hugely, but is
alarmed at seeing him in Clarice's favourite colour. An admirable conversation follows, in
which she constantly draws her ill-bred, ill-blooded, and self-besotted suitor into addressing
her with insults, under the guise of compliments, and affects to enjoy them. He next visits
Clarice, with whom he finds Cléon, in the depths of despair. She begins to admire the coat,
and to pride herself on her choice, when he interrupts her, and solemnly resigns her to Cléon.
Doris and Lucinde come in, and everybody is astounded at Ariste's generosity as he takes Clarice's
hand and places it in that of his rival. Then he goes to the Présidente, and tells her what
he has done. She expresses her delight, and he falls at her feet. Thereupon she throws round
his neck a rose-coloured ribbon (her colours), calls him "her Charming man,"[397] and insists
on showing him to the public as her conquest and captive. He has no time to refuse, for the
door opens and they all appear. "Le voilà," says she, "cet homme si fier qui soupire à mes
genoux pour les beaux yeux de ma cassette! Je vous le livre. Mon rôle est joué." So Ariste,
tearing his curled hair, and the gris-de-lin clair coat, and, doubtless, the Présidente's "red
rose chain," cursing also terribly, goes off to write a book against the age, and to prove
that nobody is wise but himself.

I can hardly imagine more than one cavil being made against this by the most carping of critics
and the most wedded to the crotchet of "kinds"--that it is too dramatic for a story, and that
we ought to have had it as a drama. If this were further twisted into an accusation of plagiarism
from the actual theatre, I think it could be rebutted at once. The situations separately might
be found in many dramas; the characters in more; but I at least am not aware of any one in
which they had been similarly put together. Of course most if not all of us have seen actresses
who would make Clarice charming, Madame de Ponval amusing, and Doris and Lucinde very delectable
adjuncts; as well as actors by whom the parts of Cléon and Ariste would be very effectively
worked out. But why we should be troubled to dress, journey, waste time and money, and get
a headache, by going to the theatre, when we can enjoy all this "in some close corner of [our]
brain," I cannot see. As I read the story in some twenty minutes, I can see my Clarice, my
Madame de Ponval, my Doris and Lucinde and Cléon and Ariste and Jasmin--the silent but doubtless
highly appreciative valet,--and I rather doubt whether the best company in the world could
give me quite that.

[Sidenote: A real advance in these.]

But, even in saying this, full justice has not yet been done to Marmontel. He has, from our
special point of view, made a real further progress towards the ideal of the ordinary novel--the
presentation of ordinary life. He has borrowed no supernatural aid;[398] he has laid under
contribution no "fie-fie" seasonings; he has sacrificed nothing, or next to nothing, in these
best pieces, whatever he may have done elsewhere, to purpose and crotchet. He has discarded
stuffing, digression, episode, and other things which weighed on and hampered his predecessors.
In fact there are times when it seems almost unjust, in this part of his work, to "second"
him in the way we have done; though it must be admitted that if you take his production as
a whole he relapses into the second order.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Bernardin de Saint-Pierre.]

The actual books, in anything that can be called fiction, of Bernardin de Saint-Pierre are
of far less merit than Marmontel's; but most people who have even the slightest knowledge of
French literature know why he cannot be excluded here. Personally, he seems to have been an
ineffectual sort of creature, and in a large part of his rather voluminous work he is (when
he ceases to produce a sort of languid amusement) a distinctly boring one.[399] He appears
to have been unlucky, but to have helped his own bad luck with the only signs of effectualness
that he ever showed. It is annoying, no doubt, to get remonstrances from headquarters as to
your not sending any work (plans, reports, etc.) as an engineer, and to find, or think you
find, that your immediate C.O. has suppressed them. But when you charge him with his disgraceful
proceeding, and he, as any French officer in his position at his time was likely to do, puts
his hand on his sword, it is undiplomatic to rush on another officer who happens to be present,
grab at and draw his weapon (you are apparently not entitled to one), and attack your chief.
Nor when, after some more unsuccessful experiences at home and abroad, you are on half or no
pay, and want employment, would it seem to be exactly the wisdom of Solomon to give a minister
the choice of employing you on (1) the civilisation of Corsica, (2) the exploration of the
unknown parts of the Western Continent, (3) the discovery of the sources of the Nile, and (4)
a pedestrian tour throughout India. But, except in the first instance (for the "Citizen of
Geneva" did not meddle much with cold steel), it was all very like a pupil, and (in the Citizen's
later years) a friend, of Rousseau, carrying out his master's ideas with a stronger dose of
Christianity, but with quite as little common sense. I have not seen (or remembered) any more
exact account of Saint-Pierre's relations with Napoleon than that given by the excellent Aimé-Martin,
an academic euphemiser of the French kind. But, even reading between his lines, they must have
been very funny.[400]

Paul et Virginie, however, is one of those books which, having attained and long kept a European
reputation, cannot be neglected, and it may be added that it does deserve, though for one thing
only, never to be entirely forgotten. It is chock-full of sensibilité, the characters have
no real character, and all healthy-minded persons have long ago agreed that the concomitant
facts, if not causes, of Virginie's fate are more nasty than the nastiest thing in Diderot
or Rabelais.[401] But the descriptions of the scenery of Mauritius, as sets-off to a novel,
are something new, and something immensely important. La Chaumière Indienne, though less of
a story in size and general texture, is much better from the point of view of taste. It has
touches of real irony, and almost of humour, though its hero, the good pariah, is a creature
nearly as uninteresting as he is impossible. Yet his "black and polished" baby is a vivid property,
and the descriptions are again famous. The shorter pieces, Le Café de Surate, etc., require
little notice.

       *       *       *       *       *

It will, however, have been seen by anybody who can "seize points," that this philosophe novel,
as such, is a really important agent in bringing on the novel itself to its state of full age.
That men like the three chiefs should take up the form is a great thing; that men who are not
quite chiefs, like Marmontel and Saint-Pierre, should carry it on, is not a small one. They
all do something to get it out of the rough; to discard--if sometimes also they add--irrelevances;
to modernise this one kind which is perhaps the predestined and acceptable literary product
of modernity. Voltaire originates little, but puts his immense power and diable au corps into
the body of fiction. Rousseau enchains passion in its service, as Madame de la Fayette, as
even Prévost, had not been able to do before. Diderot indicates, in whatever questionable material,
the vast possibilities of psychological analysis. Marmontel--doing, like other second-rate
talents, almost more useful work than his betters--rescues the conte from the "demi-rep" condition
into which it had fallen, and, owing to the multifariousness of his examples, does not entirely
subjugate it even to honest purpose; while Bernardin de Saint-Pierre carries the suggestions
of Rousseau still further in the invaluable department of description. No one, except on the
small scale, is great in plot; no one produces a really individual character;[402] and it can
hardly be said that any one provides thoroughly achieved novel dialogue. But they have inspired
and enlivened the whole thing as a whole; and if, against this, is to be set the crime of purpose,
that is one not difficult to discard.[403]

FOOTNOTES:

[351] His verse tales, even if stories in verse had not by this time fallen out of our proper
range, require little notice. The faculty of "telling" did not remain with him here, perhaps
because it was prejudicially affected by the "dryness" and unpoetical quality of his poetry,
and of the French poetry of the time generally, perhaps for other reasons. At any rate, as
compared with La Fontaine or Prior, he hardly counts. Le Mondain, Le Pauvre Diable, etc., are
skits or squibs in verse, not tales. The opening one of the usual collection, Ce qui plaît
aux Dames,--in itself a flat rehandling of Chaucer and Dryden,--is saved by its charming last
line--

    Ah! croyez-moi, l'erreur a son mérite,

a rede which he himself might well have recked.

[352] In justice to Voltaire it ought to be remembered that no less great, virtuous, and religious
a person than Milton ranked as one of the two objects to which "all mortals most aspire," "to
offend your enemies."

[353] It has been noted above (see p. 266, note), how some have directly traced Zadig to the
work of a person so much inferior to Hamilton as Gueulette.

[354] Micromégas and one or two other things avowed--in fact, Voltaire, if not "great," was
"big" enough to make as a rule little secret of his levies on others; and he had, if not adequate,
a considerable, respect for the English Titan.

[355] Cacambo was not a savage, but he had savage or, at least, non-European blood in him.

[356] Not in the Grandisonian sense, thank heaven! But as has been hinted, he is a little of
a prig.

[357] He has been allowed a great deal of credit for the Calas and some other similar businesses.
It is unlucky that the injustices he combated were somehow always clerical, in this or that
fashion.

[358] It was said of them at their appearance "[cet] ouvrage est sans goût, sans finesse, sans
invention, un rabâchage de toutes les vieilles polissonneries que l'auteur a débitées sur Moïse,
et Jésus-Christ, les prophètes et les apôtres, l'Église, les papes, les cardinaux, les prêtres
et les moines; nul intêret, nulle chaleur, nulle vraisemblance, force ordures, une grosse gaieté....
Je n'aime pas la religion: mais je ne la hais pas assez pour trouver cela bon." The authorship,
added to the justice of it, makes this one of the most crushing censures ever committed to
paper; for the writer was Diderot (Oeuvres, Ed. Assézat, vi. 36).

[359] It is a singular coincidence that this was exactly the sum which Johnson mentioned to
Boswell as capable of affording decent subsistence in London during the early middle eighteenth
century.

[360] Songe de Platon, Bababec et les Fakirs, Aventure de la Mémoire, Les Aveugles Juges des
Conteurs, Aventure Indienne, and Voyage de la Raison.

[361] It is only fair to mention in this place, and in justice to a much abused institution,
that this Babylonian story is said to be the only thing of its kind and its author that escaped
the Roman censorship. If this is true, the unfeathered perroquets were not so spiteful as the
feathered ones too often are. Or perhaps each chuckled at the satire on his brethren.

[362] As with other controverted points, not strictly relevant, it is permissible for us to
neglect protests about la légende des philosophes and the like. Of course Rousseau was not
only, at one time or another, the personal enemy of Voltaire and Diderot--he was, at one time
or another, the personal enemy of everybody, including (not at any one but at all times) himself--but
held principles very different from theirs. Yet their names will always be found together:
and for our object the junction is real.

[363] Not the Abbé, who had been dead for some years, but a Genevese professor who saw a good
deal of Jean-Jacques in his later days.

[364] "For short" La Nouvelle Héloïse has been usually adopted. I prefer Julie as actually
the first title, and for other reasons with which it is unnecessary to trouble the reader.

[365] She dies after slipping into the lake in a successful attempt to rescue one of her children;
but neither is drowned, and she does not succumb rapidly enough for "shock" to account for
it, or slowly enough for any other intelligible malady to hold its course.

[366] There is another curious anticipation of Dickens here: for Julie, as Dora does with Agnes,
entreats Claire to "fill her vacant place"--though, by the way, not with her husband. And a
third parallel, between Saint-Preux and Bradley Headstone, need not be quite farcical.

[367] You may tear out Introductions, if you do it neatly; and this I say, having written many.

[368] Also Rousseau, without meaning it, has made him by no means a fool. When, on learning
from his wife and daughter that Saint-Preux had been officiating as "coach," he asked if this
genius was a gentleman, and on hearing that he was not, replied, "What have you paid him, then?"
it was not, as the novelist and his hero took it, in their vanity, to be, mere insolence of
caste. M. d'Étange knew perfectly well that though he could not trust a French gentleman with
his wife, there was not nearly so much danger with his daughter--while a roturier was not only
entitled to be paid, and might accept pay without derogation, but was not unlikely, as the
old North Country saying goes, to take it in malt if he did not receive it in meal.

[369] I observe that I have not yet fulfilled the promise of saying something of Wolmar, but
the less said of him the better. He belongs wholly to that latter portion which has been wished
away; he is a respectable Deist--than which it is essentially impossible, one would suppose,
for orthodoxy and unorthodoxy alike to imagine anything more uninteresting; and his behaviour
to Saint-Preux appears to me to be simply nauseous. He cannot, like Rowena, "forgive as a Christian,"
because he is not one, and any other form of forgiveness or even of tolerance is, in the circumstances,
disgusting. But it was Rousseau's way to be disgusting sometimes.

[370] We have spoken of his attempt at the fairy tale; qui Gomersal non odit in English verse,
amet Le Lévite d'Ephraïm in French prose, etc. etc.

[371] He did not even, as Rousseau did with his human offspring, habitually take them to the
Foundling Hospital--that is to say, in the case of literature, the anonymous press. He left
them in MS., gave them away, and in some cases behaved to them in such an incomprehensible
fashion that one wonders how they ever came to light.

[372] Carlyle's Essay and Lord Morley of Blackburn's book are excepted. But Carlyle had not
the whole before him, and Lord Morley was principally dealing with the Encyclopédie.

[373] Especially as Génin, like Carlyle, did not know all. There is, I believe, a later selection,
but I have not seen it.

[374] Even the long, odd, and sometimes tedious Rêve de D'Alembert, which Carlyle thought "we
could have done without," but which others have extolled, has vivid narrative touches, though
one is not much surprised at Mlle. de Lespinasse having been by no means grateful for the part
assigned to her.

[375] The cleansing effect of war is an old cliché. It has been curiously illustrated in this
case: for the first proof of the present passage reached me on the very same day with the news
of the expulsion of the Germans from the village of Puisieux. So the name got "red-washed"
from its old reproach.

[376] There really are touches of resemblance in it to Browning, especially in things like
Mr. Sludge the Medium.

[377] The corporal's wound in the knee.

[378] Of course, there are exceptions, and with one of the chief of them, Xavier de Maistre,
we may have, before long, to deal.

[379] His longest, most avowed, and most famous, the Paradoxe sur le Comédien, has been worthily
Englished by Mr. Walter H. Pollock.

[380] Its heroine, Suzanne Simonin, was, as far as the attempt to relieve herself of her vows
went, a real person; and a benevolent nobleman, the Marquis de Croixmare, actually interested
himself in this attempt--which failed. But Diderot and his evil angel Grimm got up sham letters
between themselves and her patron, which are usually printed with the book.

[381] Mon père, je suis damnée ... the opening words, and the only ones given, of the confession
of the half-mad abbess.

[382] Evangelical Protestantism has more than once adopted the principle that the Devil should
not be allowed to have all the best tunes: and I remember in my youth an English religious
novel of ultra-anti-Roman purpose, which, though, of course, dropping the "scabrousness," had,
as I long afterwards recognised when I came to read La Religieuse, almost certainly borrowed
a good deal from our most unsaintly Denis of Langres.

[383] She seems to have been, in many ways, far too good for her society, and altogether a
lady.--The opinions of the late M. Brunetière and mine on French literature were often very
different--though he was good enough not to disapprove of some of my work on it. But with the
terms of his expression of mere opinion one had seldom to quarrel. I must, however, take exception
to his attribution of grossièreté to La Religieuse. Diderot, as has been fully admitted, was
too often grossier: sometimes when it was almost irrelevant to the subject. But here, "scabrous"
as the subject might be, the treatment is scrupulously not coarse. Nor do I think, after intimate
and long familiarity with the whole of his work, that he was ever a faux bonhomme.

[384] They have hardly had a fair opportunity of comparison with Voltaire's Dictionnaire Philosophique;
but they can stand it.

[385] Unless Dulaurens' not quite stupid, but formless and discreditable, Compère Mathieu be
excepted.

[386] In consequence of which Mr. Ruskin's favourite publisher, the late Mr. George Allen,
asked the present writer, some twenty years ago, to revise and "introduce" the old translation
of his Contes Moraux. The volume had, at least, the advantage of very charming illustrations
by Miss Chris. Hammond.

[387] They were even worse than Leigh Hunt's in the strictly English counterpart torture-house
for the victims of tyranny--consisting, for instance, in the supply of so good a dinner, at
His Most Christian Majesty's expense, for the prisoner's servant, that the prisoner ate it
himself, and had afterwards, on the principles of rigid virtue and distributive justice, to
resign, to the minion who accompanied him, his own still better one which came later, also
supplied by the tyrant.

[388] One expects something of value from the part-contemporary, part-successor of the novelists
from Lesage to Rousseau. But where it is not mere blether about virtue and vice, and le coeur
humain and so on, it has some of the worst faults of eighteenth-century criticism. He thinks
it would have been more "moral" if Mme. de Clèves had actually succumbed as a punishment for
her self-reliance (certainly one of the most remarkable topsyturvifications of morality ever
crotcheted); is, of course, infinitely shocked at being asked and induced to "interest himself
in a prostitute and a card-sharper" by Manon Lescaut; and, equally of course, extols Richardson,
though it is fair to say that he speaks well of Tom Jones.

[389] See next chapter.

[390] I wonder whether any one else has noticed that Thackeray, in the very agreeable illustration
to one of not quite his greatest "letterpress" things, A New Naval Drama (Oxford Ed. vol. viii.
p. 421), makes the press-gang weep ostentatiously in the picture, though not in the text, where
they only wave their cutlasses. It may be merely a coincidence: but it may not.

[391] There are reasons for thinking that Marmontel was deliberately "antidoting the fanfreluches"
of the older tale-teller.

[392] In the original, suiting the rest of the setting, it is rideaux.

[393] "Explanations" is quite admirable, and, I think, neither borrowed from, nor, which is
more surprising, by others.

[394] She declares that she has never actually "stooped to folly"; but admits that on more
than one occasion it was only an accidental interruption which "luckily" (heureusement) saved her.

[395] It is necessary to retain the French here: for our "likes" is ambiguous.

[396] Cf. the stories, contradictory of each other, as to our brown-coated philosopher's appearance
in France. (Boswell, p. 322, Globe ed.)

[397] Cf. again the bestowal of this title by Horace Walpole, in his later days, on Edward
Jerningham, playwright, poetaster, and petit maître, who, unluckily for himself, lived into
the more roughly satirical times of the Revolutionary War.

[398] "The sylphishness of Le Mari Sylphe is only an ingenious and defensible fraud; and the
philtre-flasks of Alcidonis are little more than "properties.""

[399] Here is a specimen of his largest and most ambitious production, the Études de la Nature.
"La femelle du tigre, exhalant l'odeur du carnage, fait retentir les solitudes de l'Afrique
de ses miaulements affreux, et paraît remplie d'attraits à ses cruels amants." By an odd chance,
I once saw a real scene contrasting remarkably with Saint-Pierre's sentimental melodrama. It
was in the Clifton Zoological Gardens, which, as possibly some readers may know, were at one
time regarded as particularly home-like by the larger carnivora. It was a very fine day, and
an equally fine young tigress was endeavouring to attract the attention of her cruel lover.
She rolled delicately about, like a very large, very pretty, and exceptionally graceful cat;
she made fantastic gestures with her paws and tail; and she purred literally "as gently as
any sucking dove"--roucoulement was the only word for it. But her "lover," though he certainly
looked "cruel" and as if he would very much like to eat me, appeared totally indifferent to
her attractions.

[400] So, also, when one is told that he called his son Paul and his daughter Virginie, it
is cheerful to remember, with a pleasant sense of contrast, Scott's good-humoured contempt
for the tourists who wanted to know whether Abbotsford was to be called Tullyveolan or Tillietudlem.

[401] As the story is not now, I believe, the universal school-book it once was, something
more than mere allusion may be desirable. The ship in which Virginie is returning to the Isle
of France gets into shallows during a hurricane, and is being beaten to pieces close to land.
One stalwart sailor, stripped to swim for his life, approaches Virginie, imploring her to strip
likewise and let him try to pilot her through the surf. But she (like the lady in the coach,
at an early part of Joseph Andrews) won't so much as look at a naked man, clasps her arms round
her own garments, and is very deservedly drowned. The sailor, to one's great relief, is not.

[402] Julie herself is an intense type rather than individual.

[403] I have not thought it necessary, except in regard to those of them who have been touched
in treating of the Cabinet des Fées, to speak at any length of the minor tale-tellers of the
century. They are sometimes not bad reading; but as a whole minor in almost all senses.

CHAPTER XII

"SENSIBILITY." MINOR AND LATER NOVELISTS.

THE FRENCH NOVEL, C. 1800

[Sidenote: "Sensibility."]

Frequent reference has been made, in the last two chapters, to the curious phenomenon called
in French sensibilité (with a derivative of contempt, sensiblerie), the exact English form
of which supplies part of the title, and the meaning an even greater part of the subject, of
one of Miss Austen's novels. The thing itself appears first definitely[404] in Madame de la
Fayette, largely, though not unmixedly, in Marivaux, and to some extent in Prévost and Marmontel,
while it is, as it were, sublimed in Rousseau, and present very strongly in Saint-Pierre. There
are, however, some minor writers and books displaying it in some cases even more extensively
and intensively; and in this final chapter of the present volume they may appropriately find
a place, not merely because some of them are late, but because Sensibility is not confined
to any part of the century, but, beginning before its birth, continued till after its end.
We may thus have to encroach on the nineteenth a little, but more in appearance than in reality.
In quintessence, and as a reigning fashion, Sensibility was the property of the eighteenth
century.[405]

[Sidenote: A glance at Miss Austen.]

To recur for a moment to Miss Austen and Sense and Sensibility, everybody has laughed, let
us hope not unkindly, over Marianne Dashwood's woes. But she herself was only an example, exaggerated
in the genial fashion of her creatress, of the proper and recognised standard of feminine feeling
in and long before her time. The "man of feeling" was admitted as something out of the way--on
which side of the way opinions might differ. But the woman of feeling was emphatically the
accepted type--a type which lasted far into the next century, though it was obsolete at least
by the Mid-Victorian period, of which some do so vainly talk. The extraordinary development
of emotion which was expected from women need not be illustrated merely from love-stories.
The wonderful transports of Miss Ferrier's heroines at sight of their long-lost mothers; even
those of sober Fanny Price in Mansfield Park, at the recovery of her estimable but not particularly
interesting brother William, give the keynote much better than any more questionable ecstasies.
"Sensibility, so charming," was the pet affectation of the period--an affectation carried on
till it became quite natural, and was only cured by the half-caricature, half-reaction of Byronism.

[Sidenote: The thing essentially French.]

The thing, however, was not English in origin, and never was thoroughly English at all. The
main current of the Sensibility novelists, who impressed their curious morals or manners on
all men and women in civilised Europe, was French in unbroken succession, from the day when
Madame de la Fayette first broke ground against the ponderous romances of Madeleine de Scudéry,
to the day when Benjamin Constant forged, in Adolphe, the link between eighteenth-century and
nineteenth-century romance, between the novel of sentiment and the novel of analysis.

[Sidenote: Its history.]

Of the relations to it of the greater novelists of the main century we have already spoken:
and as for the two greatest of the extreme close, Chateaubriand and Madame de Staël, they mix
too many secondary purposes with their philandering, and moreover do not form part of the plan
of the present volume. For the true Sensibility, the odd quintessence of conventional feeling,
played at steadily till it is half real, if not wholly so, which ends in the peculiarities
of two such wholesome young Britonesses as Marianne Dashwood and Fanny Price, we must look
elsewhere. After Madame de la Fayette, and excluding with her other names already treated,
we come to Madame de Fontaines, Madame de Tencin (most heartless and therefore naturally not
least sentimental of women), Madame Riccoboni, the group of lady-novelists of whom Mesdames
de Souza and de Duras are the chief, and, finally, the two really remarkable names of Xavier
de Maistre and Benjamin Constant. These are our "documents." Even the minor subjects of this
inquiry are pleasant pieces of literary bric-à-brac; perhaps they are something a little more
than that. For Sensibility was actually once a great power in the world. Transformed a little,
it did wonderful things in the hands of Rousseau and Goethe and Chateaubriand and Byron. It
lingers in odd nooks and corners even at the present day, when it is usually and irreverently
called "gush," and Heaven only knows whether it may not be resuscitated in full force before
some of us are dead.[406] For it has exactly the peculiarities which characterise all recurrent
fashions--the appeal to something which is genuine connected with the suggestion of a great
deal that is not.

[Sidenote: Mme. de Tencin and Le Comte de Comminge.]

In the followers of Madame de la Fayette[407] we find that a good many years have passed by.
The jargon appropriated to the subject has grown still more official; and instead of using
it to express genuine sentiments, which in another language might deserve expression well enough,
the characters are constantly suspected by the callous modern reader or elaborately, though
perhaps unconsciously, feigning the sentiments which the jargon seems to imply that they ought
to have. This is somewhat less noticeable in the work of Madame de Tencin than elsewhere, because
d'Alembert's mother was so very much cleverer a person than the generality of the novel-writers
of her day that she could hardly fail to hide defects more cunningly. But it is evident enough
in the Comte de Comminge and in the Malheurs de l'Amour. Having as questionable morals as any
lady of the time (the time of the Regency), Madame de Tencin of course always had a moral purpose
in her writings, and this again gives her books a certain difference. But, like the former,
this difference only exposes, all the more clearly, the defects of the style, and the drawbacks
from which it was almost impossible that those who practised it should escape.

Madame de Tencin tried to escape by several gates. Besides her moral purposes and her esprit,
she indulged in a good deal of rather complicated and sometimes extravagant incident. M. de
Comminge, which is very short, contains, not to mention other things, the rather startling
detail of a son who, out of chivalrous affection for his lady-love, burns certain of his father's
title-deeds which he has been charged to recover, and the still more startling incident of
the heroine living for some years in disguise as a monk. The following epistle, however, from
the heroine to the hero, will show better than anything else the topsy-turvy condition which
sensibility had already reached. All that need be said in explanation of it is that the father
(who is furious with his son, and not unreasonably so) has shut him up in a dungeon, in order
to force him to give up his beloved Adelaide.[408]

     Your father's fury has told me all I owe you: I know what
     your generosity had concealed from me. I know, too, the
     terrible situation in which you are, and I have no means of
     extracting you therefrom save one. This will perhaps make
     you more unhappy still. But I shall be as unhappy as
     yourself, and this gives me the courage to do what I am
     required to do. They would have me, by engaging myself to
     another, give a pledge never to be yours: 'tis at this price
     that M. de Comminge sets your liberty. It will cost me
     perhaps my life, certainly my peace. But I am resolved. I
     shall in a few days be married to the Marquis de Bénavidés.
     What I know of his character forewarns me of what I shall
     have to suffer; but I owe you at least so much constancy as
     to make only misery for myself in the engagement I am
     contracting.

The extremity of calculated absurdity indicated by the italicised passages was reached, let
it be remembered, by one of the cleverest women of the century: and the chief excuse for it
is that the restrictions of the La Fayette novel, confined as it was to the upper classes and
to a limited number of elaborately distressing situations, were very embarrassing.

[Sidenote: Mme. Riccoboni and Le Marquis de Cressy.]

Madame Riccoboni, mentioned earlier as continuing Marianne, shows the completed product very
fairly. Her Histoire du Marquis de Cressy is a capital example of the kind. The Marquis is
beloved by a charming girl of sixteen and by a charming widow of six-and-twenty. An envious
rival betrays his attentions to Adelaide de Bugei, and her father makes her write an epistle
which pretty clearly gives him the option of a declaration in form or a rupture. For a Sensible
man, it must be confessed, the Marquis does not get out of the difficulty too well. She has
slipped into her father's formal note the highly Sensible postscript, "Vous dire de m'oublier?
Ah! Jamais. On m'a forcé de l'écrire; rien ne peut m'obliger à le penser ni le désirer." Apparently
it was not leap-year, for the Marquis replied in a letter nearly as bad as Willoughby's celebrated
epistle in Sense and Sensibility.

     MADEMOISELLE,--Nothing can console me for having been the
     innocent cause of fault being found with the conduct of a
     person so worthy of respect as you. I shall approve whatever
     you may think proper to do, without considering myself
     entitled to ask the reason of your behaviour. How happy
     should I be, mademoiselle, if my fortune, and the
     arrangements which it forces me to make, did not deprive me
     of the sweet hope of an honour of which my respect and my
     sentiments would perhaps make me worthy, but which my
     present circumstances permit me not to seek.

Sensibility does not seem to have seen anything very unhandsome in this broad refusal to throw
the handkerchief; but though not unhandsome, it could not be considered satisfactory to the
heart. So M. de Cressy despatches this private note to Adelaide by "Machiavel the waiting-maid"--

     Is it permitted to a wretch who has deprived himself of the
     greatest of blessings, to dare to ask your pardon and your
     pity? Never did love kindle a flame purer and more ardent
     than that with which my heart burns for the amiable
     Adelaide. Why have I not been able to give her those proofs
     of it which she had the right to expect? Ah! mademoiselle,
     how could I bind you to the lot of a wretch all whose wishes
     even you perhaps would not fulfil? who, when he possessed
     you, though master of so dear, so precious a blessing, might
     regret others less estimable, but which have been the object
     of his hope and desire, etc. etc.

This means that M. de Cressy is ambitious, and wants a wife who will assist his views. The
compliment is doubtful, and Adelaide receives it in approved fashion. She opens it "with a
violent emotion," and her "trouble was so great in reading it through, that she had to begin
it again many times before she understood it." The exceedingly dubious nature of the compliment,
however, strikes her, and "tears of regret and indignation rise to her eyes"--tears which indeed
are excusable even from a different point of view than that of Sensibility. She is far, however,
from blaming that sacred emotion. "Ce n'est pas," she says; "de notre sensibilité, mais de
l'objet qui l'a fait naître, que nous devons nous plaindre." This point seems arguable if it
were proper to argue with a lady.

The next letter to be cited is from Adelaide's unconscious rival, whose conduct is--translated
into the language of Sensibility, and adjusted to the manners of the time and class--a ludicrous
anticipation of the Pickwickian widow. She buys a handsome scarf, and sends it anonymously
to the victorious Marquis just before a Court ball, with this letter--

     A sentiment, tender, timid, and shy of making itself known,
     gives me an interest in penetrating the secrets of your
     heart. You are thought indifferent; you seem to me
     insensible. Perhaps you are happy, and discreet in your
     happiness. Deign to tell me the secret of your soul, and be
     sure that I am not unworthy of your confidence. If you have
     no love for any one, wear this scarf at the ball. Your
     compliance may lead you to a fate which others envy. She who
     feels inclined to prefer you is worthy of your attentions,
     and the step she takes to let you know it is the first
     weakness which she has to confess.

The modesty of this perhaps leaves something to desire, but its Sensibility is irreproachable.
There is no need to analyse the story of the Marquis de Cressy, which is a very little book[409]
and not extremely edifying. But it supplies us with another locus classicus on sentimental
manners. M. de Cressy has behaved very badly to Adelaide, and has married the widow with the
scarf. He receives a letter from Adelaide on the day on which she takes the black veil--

     'Tis from the depths of an asylum, where I fear no more the
     perfidy of your sex, that I bid you an eternal adieu. Birth,
     wealth, honours, all vanish from my sight. My youth withered
     by grief, my power of enjoyment destroyed, love past, memory
     present, and regret still too deeply felt, all combine to
     bury me in this retreat.

And so forth, all of which, if a little high-flown, is not specially unnatural; but the oddity
of the passage is to come. Most men would be a little embarrassed at receiving such a letter
as this in presence of their wives (it is to be observed that the unhappy Adelaide is profuse
of pardons to Madame as well as to Monsieur de Cressy), and most wives would not be pleased
when they read it. But Madame de Cressy has the finest Sensibility of the amiable kind. She
reads it, and then--

     The Marquise, having finished this letter, cast herself into
     the arms of her husband, and clasping him with an
     inexpressible tenderness, "Weep, sir, weep," she cried,
     bathing him with her own tears; "you cannot show too much
     sensibility for a heart so noble, so constant in its love.
     Amiable and dear Adelaide! 'Tis done, then, and we have lost
     you for ever. Ah! why must I reproach myself with having
     deprived you of the only possession which excited your
     desires? Can I not enjoy this sweet boon without telling
     myself that my happiness has destroyed yours?"

[Sidenote: Her other work--Milady Catesby.]

All Madame Riccoboni's work is, with a little good-will, more or less interesting. Much of
it is full of italics, which never were used so freely in France as in England, but which seem
to suit the queer, exaggerated, topsy-turvyfied sentiments and expressions very well. The Histoire
d'Ernestine in particular is a charming little novelette. But if it were possible to give an
abstract of any of her work here, Milady Catesby, which does us the honour to take its scene
and personages from England, would be the one to choose. Milady Catesby is well worth comparing
with Evelina, which is some twenty years its junior, and the sentimental parts of which are
quite in the same tone with it. Lord Ossery is indeed even more "sensible" than Lord Orville,
but then he is described in French. Lady Catesby herself is, however, a model of the style,
as when she writes--

     Oh! my dear Henrietta! What agitation in my senses! what
     trouble in my soul!... I have seen him.... He has spoken to
     me.... Himself.... He was at the ball.... Yes! he. Lord
     Ossery.... Ah! tell me not again to see him.... Bid me not
     hear him once more.

That will do for Lady Catesby, who really had no particular occasion or excuse for all this
excitement except Sensibility. But Sensibility was getting more and more exacting. The hero
of a novel must always be in the heroics, the heroine in a continual state of palpitation.
We are already a long way from Madame de la Fayette's stately passions, from Marianne's whimsical
minauderies. All the resources of typography--exclamations, points, dashes--have to be called
in to express the generally disturbed state of things. Now unfortunately this sort of perpetual
tempest in a teacup (for it generally is in a teacup) requires unusual genius to make it anything
but ludicrous. I myself have not the least desire to laugh when I read such a book as La Nouvelle
Héloïse, and I venture to think that any one who does laugh must have something of the fool
and something of the brute in his composition. But then Rousseau is Rousseau, and there are
not many like him. At the Madame Riccobonis of this world, however clever they may be, it is
difficult not to laugh, when they have to dance on such extraordinary tight ropes as those
which Sensibility prescribed. In Madame de Genlis's tiny novelette of Mademoiselle de Clermont,
the amount of tears shed, the way in which the knees of the characters knock together, their
palenesses, blushes, tears, sighs, and other performances of the same kind, are surprising.
In the Lettres du Marquis de Roselle of Madame Élie de Beaumont (wife of the young advocate
who defended the Calas family), a long scene between a brother and sister, in which the sister
seeks to deter the brother from what she regards as a misalliance, ends (or at least almost
ends, for the usual flood of tears is the actual conclusion) in this remarkable passage.

     "And I," cried he suddenly with a kind of fury, "I suppose
     that a sister who loves her brother, pities and does not
     insult him; that the Marquis de Roselle knows better what
     can make him happy than the Countess of St. Séver; and that
     he is free, independent, able to dispose of himself, in
     spite of all opposition." With these words he turned to
     leave the room brusquely. I run to him, I stop him, he
     resists. "My brother!" "I have no sister." He makes a
     movement to free himself: he was about to escape me. "Oh, my
     father!" I cried. "Oh, my mother! come to my help." At these
     sacred names he started, stopped, and allowed himself to be
     conducted to a sofa.

[Sidenote: Mme. de Souza.]

This unlucky termination might be paralleled from many other places, even from the agreeable
writings of Madame de Souza. This writer, by the way, when the father of one of her heroes
refuses to consent to his son's marriage, makes the stern parent yield to a representation
that by not doing so he will "authorise by anticipation a want of filial attachment and respect"
in the grandchildren who do not as yet exist. These excursions into the preposterous in search
of something new in the way of noble sentiment or affecting emotion--these whippings and spurrings
of the feelings and the fancy--characterise all the later work of the school.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Xavier de Maistre.]

Two names of great literary value and interest close the list of the novelists of Sensibility
in France, and show at once its Nemesis and its caricature. They were almost contemporaries,
and by a curious coincidence neither was a Frenchman by birth. It would be impossible to imagine
a greater contrast than existed personally between Xavier de Maistre and Henri Benjamin de
Constant-Rebecque, commonly called Benjamin Constant. But their personalities, interesting
as both are, are not the matter of principal concern here. The Voyage autour de ma Chambre,
its sequel the Expédition Nocturne, and the Lépreux de la Cité d'Aoste, exhibit one branch
of the river of Sensibility (if one may be permitted to draw up a new Carte de Tendre), losing
itself in agreeable trifling with the surface of life, and in generous, but fleeting, and slightly,
though not consciously, insincere indulgence of the emotions. In Adolphe the river rushes violently
down a steep place, and in nigras lethargi mergitur undas. It is to be hoped that most people
who will read these pages know Xavier de Maistre's charming little books; it is probable that
at least some of them do not know Adolphe. Constant is the more strictly original of the two
authors, for Xavier de Maistre owes a heavy debt to Sterne, though he employs the borrowed
capital so well that he makes it his own, while Adolphe can only be said to come after Werther
and René in time, not in the least to follow them in nature.

The Voyage autour de ma Chambre (readers may be informed or reminded) is a whimsical description
of the author's meditations and experiences when confined to barracks for some military peccadillo.
After a fashion which has found endless imitators since, the prisoner contemplates the various
objects in his room, spins little romances to himself about them and about his beloved Madame
de Hautcastel, moralises on the faithfulness of his servant Joannetti, and so forth. The Expédition
Nocturne, a less popular sequel, is not very different in plan. The Lépreux de la Cité d'Aoste
is a very short story, telling how the narrator finds a sufferer from the most terrible of
all diseases lodged in a garden-house, and of their dialogue. The chief merit of these works,
as of the less mannerised and more direct Prisonnier du Caucase and Jeune Sibérienne, resides
in their dainty style, in their singular narrative power (Sainte-Beuve says justly enough that
the Prisonnier du Caucase has been equalled by no other writer except Mérimée), and in the
remarkable charm of the personality of the author, which escapes at every moment from the work.
The pleasant picture of the Chevalier de B---- in the Soirées de St. Pétersbourg, which Joseph
de Maistre is said to have drawn from his less formidable brother, often suggests itself as
one follows the whimsicalities of the Voyage and the Expédition. The affectation is so natural,
the mannerism so simple, that it is some time before one realises how great in degree both are.

[Sidenote: His illustrations on the lighter side of Sensibility.]

Looked at from a certain point of view, Xavier de Maistre illustrates the effect of the Sensibility
theory on a thoroughly good-natured, cultivated, and well-bred man of no particular force or
character or strength of emotion. He has not the least intention of taking Sensibility seriously,
but it is the proper thing to take it somehow or other. So he sets himself to work to be a
man of feeling and a humorist at the same time. His encounter with the leper is so freshly
and simply told, there is such an air of genuineness about it, that it seems at first sight
not merely harsh, but unappreciative, to compare it to Sterne's account of his proceedings
with his monks and donkeys, his imaginary prisoners, and his fictitious ensigns. Yet there
is a real contact between them. Both have the chief note of Sensibility, the taking an emotion
as a thing to be savoured and degusted deliberately--to be dealt with on scientific principles
and strictly according to the rules of the game. One result of this proceeding, when pursued
for a considerable time, is unavoidably a certain amount of frivolity, especially in dealing
with emotions directly affecting the player. Sympathy such as that displayed with the leper
may be strong and genuine, because there is no danger about it; there is the suave mari magno
preservative from the risk of a too deep emotion. But in matters which directly affect the
interest of the individual it does not do to be too serious. The tear of Sensibility must not
be dropped in a manner giving real pain to the dropper. Hence the humoristic attitude. When
Xavier de Maistre informs us that "le grand art de l'homme de génie est de savoir bien élever
sa bête," he means a great deal more than he supposes himself to mean. The great art of an
easy-going person, who believes it to be his duty to be "sensible," is to arrange for a series
of emotions which can be taken gently.

The author of the Voyage takes his without any extravagance. He takes good care not to burn
his fingers metaphorically in this matter, though he tells us that in a fit of absence he did
so literally. His affection for Madame de Hautcastel is certainly not a very passionate kind
of affection, for all his elaborately counted and described heartbeats as he is dusting her
portrait. Indeed, with his usual candour, he leaves us in no doubt about the matter. "La froide
raison," he says, "reprit bientôt son empire." Of course it did; the intelligent, and in the
other sense sensible, person who wishes to preserve his repose must take care of that. We do
not even believe that he really dropped a tear of repentance on his left shoe when he had unreasonably
rated his servant; it is out of keeping with his own part. He borrowed that tear, either ironically
or by oversight, from Sterne, just as he did "Ma chère Jenny." He is much more in his element
when he proves that a lover is to his mistress, when she is about to go to a ball, only a "decimal
of a lover," a kind of amatory tailor or ninth part of man; or when, in the Expédition, he
meditates on a lady's slipper in the balcony fathoms below his garret.

[Sidenote: A sign of decadence.]

All this illustrates what may be called the attempt to get rid of Sensibility by the humorist
gate of escape. Supposing no such attempt consciously to exist, it is, at any rate, the sign
of an approaching downfall of Sensibility, of a feeling, on the part of those who have to do
with it, that it is an edged tool, and an awkward one to handle. In comparing Xavier de Maistre
with his master Sterne, it is very noticeable that while the one in disposition is thoroughly
insincere, and the other thoroughly sincere, yet the insincere man is a true believer in Sensibility,
and the sincere one evidently a semi-heretic. How far Sterne consciously simulated his droppings
of warm tears, and how far he really meant them, may be a matter of dispute. But he was quite
sincere in believing that they were very creditable things, and very admirable ones. Xavier
de Maistre does not seem by any means so well convinced of this. He is, at times, not merely
evidently pretending and making believe, but laughing at himself for pretending and making
believe. He still thinks Sensibility a gratissimus error, a very pretty game for persons of
refinement to play at, and he plays at it with a great deal of industry and with a most exquisite
skill. But the spirit of Voltaire, who himself did his sensibilité (in real life, if not in
literature) as sincerely as Sterne, has affected Xavier de Maistre "with a difference." The
Savoyard gentleman is entirely and unexceptionably orthodox in religion; it may be doubted
whether a severe inquisition in matters of Sensibility would let him off scatheless. It is
not merely that he jests--as, for instance, that when he is imagining the scene at the Rape
of the Sabines, he suddenly fancies that he hears a cry of despair from one of the visitors.
"Dieux immortels! Pourquoi n'ai-je amené ma femme à la fête?" That is quite proper and allowable.
It is the general tone of levity in the most sentimental moments, the undercurrent of mockery
at his own feelings in this man of feeling, which is so shocking to Sensibility, and yet it
was precisely this that was inevitable.

Sensibility, to carry it out properly, required, like other elaborate games, a very peculiar
and elaborate arrangement of conditions. The parties must be in earnest so far as not to have
the slightest suspicion that they were making themselves ridiculous, and yet not in earnest
enough to make themselves really miserable. They must have plenty of time to spare, and not
be distracted by business, serious study, political excitement, or other disturbing causes.
On the other hand, to get too much absorbed, and arrive at Werther's end, was destructive not
only to the individual player, but to the spirit of the game. As the century grew older, and
this danger of absorption grew stronger, that game became more and more difficult to play seriously
enough, and yet not too seriously. When the players did not blow their brains out, they often
fell into the mere libertinism from which Sensibility, properly so called, is separated by
a clear enough line. Two such examples in real life as Rousseau and Mademoiselle de Lespinasse,
one such demonstration of the same moral in fiction as Werther, were enough to discourage the
man of feeling. Therefore, when he still exists, he takes to motley, the only wear for the
human race in troublesome circumstances which beset it with unpleasant recurrence. When you
cannot exactly believe anything in religion, in politics, in literature, in art, and yet neither
wish nor know how to do without it, the safe way is to make a not too grotesque joke of it.
This is a text on which a long sermon might be hung were it worth while. But as it is, it is
sufficient to point out that Xavier de Maistre is an extremely remarkable illustration of the
fact in the particular region of sentimental fiction.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Benjamin Constant--Adolphe.]

Benjamin Constant's masterpiece, which (the sequel to it never having appeared, though it was
in existence in manuscript less than a century ago) is also his only purely literary work,
is a very small book, but it calls here for something more than a very small mention. The books
which make an end are almost fewer in literature than those which make a beginning, and this
is one of them. Like most such books, it made a beginning also, showing the way to Beyle, and
through Beyle to all the analytic school of the nineteenth century. Space would not here suffice
to discuss the singular character of its author, to whom Sainte-Beuve certainly did some injustice,
as the letters to Madame Recamier show, but whose political and personal experiences as certainly
call for a large allowance of charity. The theory of Adolphe's best editor, M. de Lescure (which
also was the accepted theory long before M. de Lescure's time), that the heroine of the novel
was Madame de Staël, will not, I think, hold water. In every characteristic, personal and mental,
Ellénore and Madame de Staël are at opposite poles. Ellénore was beautiful, Madame de Staël
was very nearly hideous; Ellénore was careless of her social position, Corinne was as great
a slave to society as any one who ever lived; Ellénore was somewhat uncultivated, had little
esprit, was indifferent to flattery, took not much upon herself in any way except in exacting
affection where no affection existed; the good Corinne was one of the cleverest women of her
time, and thought herself one of the cleverest of all times, could not endure that any one
in company should be of a different opinion on this point, and insisted on general admiration
and homage.

However, this is a very minor matter, and anybody is at liberty to regard the differences as
deliberate attempts to disguise the truth. What is important is that Madame de Staël was almost
the last genuine devotee of Sensibility, and that Adolphe was certainly written by a lover
of Madame de Staël, who had, from his youth up, been a Man of Feeling of a singularly unfeeling
kind. When Constant wrote the book he had run through the whole gamut of Sensibility. He had
been instructed as a youth[410] by ancient women of letters; he had married and got rid of
his wife à la mode Germanorum; he had frequently taken a hint from Werther, and threatened
suicide with the best possible results; he had given, perhaps, the most atrocious example of
the atrocious want of taste which accompanied the decadence of Sensibility, by marrying Charlotte
von Hardenburg out of pique, because Madame de Staël would not marry him, then going to live
with his bride near Coppet, and finally deserting her, newly married as she was, for her very
uncomely but intellectually interesting rival. In short, according to the theory of a certain
ethical school, that the philosopher who discusses virtue should be thoroughly conversant with
vice, Benjamin Constant was a past master in Sensibility. It was at a late period in his career,
and when he had only one trial to go through (the trial of, as it seems to me, a sincere and
hopeless affection for Madame Recamier), that he wrote Adolphe. But the book has nothing whatever
to do with 1815, the date which it bears. It is, as has been said, the history of the Nemesis
of Sensibility, the prose commentary by anticipation on Mr. Swinburne's admirable "Stage Love"--

    Time was chorus, gave them cues to laugh and cry,
    They would kill, befool, amuse him, let him die;
    Set him webs to weave to-day and break to-morrow,
    Till he died for good in play and rose in sorrow.

That is a history, in one stanza, of Sensibility, and no better account than Adolphe exists
of the rising in sorrow.

The story of the book opens in full eighteenth century. A young man, fresh from the University
of Göttingen, goes to finish his education at the residenz of D----. Here he finds much society,
courtly and other. His chief resort is the house of a certain Count de P----, who lives, unmarried,
with a Polish lady named Ellénore. In the easy-going days of Sensibility the ménage holds a
certain place in society, though it is looked upon a little askance. But Ellénore is, on her
own theory, thoroughly respectable, and the Count de P----, though in danger of his fortune,
is a man of position and rank. As for Adolphe, he is the result of the struggle between Sensibility,
an unquiet and ironic nature, and the teaching of a father who, though not unquiet, is more
ironically given than himself. His main character is all that a young man's should be from
the point of view of Sensibility. "Je ne demandais alors qu'à me livrer à ces impressions primitives
et fougueuses," etc. But his father snubs the primitive and fiery impressions, and the son,
feeling that they are a mistake, is only more determined to experience them. Alternately expanding
himself as Sensibility demands, and making ironic jests as his own nature and his father's
teaching suggest, he acquires the character of "un homme immoral, un homme peu sûr," the last
of which expressions may be paralleled from the British repertory by "an ill-regulated young
man," or "a young man on whom you can never depend."

All this time Adolphe is not in love, and as the dominant teaching of Sensibility lays it down
that he ought to be, he feels that he is wrong. "'Je veux être aimé,' me dis-je, et je regardai
autour de moi. Je ne voyais personne qui m'inspirait de l'amour; personne qui me parut susceptible
d'en prendre." In parallel case the ordinary man would resign himself as easily as if he were
in face of the two conditions of having no appetite and no dinner ready. But this will not
do for the pupil of Sensibility. He must make what he does not find, and so Adolphe pitches
on the luckless Ellénore, who "me parut une conquête digne de moi." To do Sensibility justice,
it would not, at an earlier time, have used language so crude as this, but it had come to it
now. Here is the portrait of the victim, drawn by her ten years younger lover.

     Ellénore's wits were not above the ordinary, but her
     thoughts were just, and her expression, simple as it was,
     was sometimes striking by reason of the nobility and
     elevation of the thought. She was full of prejudices, but
     she was always prejudiced against her own interest. There
     was nothing she set more value on than regularity of
     conduct, precisely because her own conduct was
     conventionally irregular.[411] She was very religious,
     because religion rigidly condemned her mode of life. In
     conversation she frowned on pleasantries which would have
     seemed quite innocent to other women, because she feared
     that her circumstances might encourage the use of such as
     were not innocent. She would have liked to admit to her
     society none but men of the highest rank and most
     irreproachable reputation, because those women with whom she
     shuddered at the thought of being classed usually tolerate
     mixed society, and, giving up the hope of respect, seek only
     amusement. In short, Ellénore and her destiny were at
     daggers drawn; every word, every action of hers was a kind
     of protest against her social position. And as she felt that
     facts were too strong for her, and that the situation could
     be changed by no efforts of hers, she was exceedingly
     miserable.... The struggle between her feelings and her
     circumstances had affected her temper. She was often silent
     and dreamy: sometimes, however, she spoke with impetuosity.
     Beset as she was by a constant preoccupation, she was never
     quite calm in the midst of the most miscellaneous
     conversation, and for this very reason her manner had an
     unrest and an air of surprise about it which made her more
     piquant than she was by nature. Her strange position, in
     short, took the place of new and original ideas in her.

The difference of note from the earlier eighteenth century will strike everybody here. If we
are still some way from Emma Bovary, it is only in point of language: we are poles asunder
from Marianne. But the hero is still, in his own belief, acting under the influence of Sensibility.
He is not in the least impassioned, he is not a mere libertine, but he has a "besoin d'amour."
He wants a "conquête." He is still actuated by the odd mixture of vanity, convention, sensuality,
which goes by the name of our subject. But his love is a "dessin de lui plaire"; he has taken
an "engagement envers son amour propre." In other words, he is playing the game from the lower
point of view--the mere point of view of winning. It does not take him very long to win. Ellénore
at first behaves unexceptionably, refuses to receive him after his first declaration, and retires
to the country. But she returns, and the exemplary Adolphe has recourse to the threat which,
if his creator's biographers may be believed, Constant himself was very fond of employing in
similar cases, and which the great popularity of Werther made terrible to the compassionate
and foolish feminine mind. He will kill himself. She hesitates, and very soon she does not
hesitate any longer. The reader feels that Adolphe is quite worthless, that nothing but the
fact of his having been brought up in a time when Sensibility was dominant saves him. But the
following passage, from the point of view alike of nature and of expression, again pacifies
the critic:[412]

     I passed several hours at her feet, declaring myself the
     happiest of men, lavishing on her assurances of eternal
     affection, devotion, and respect. She told me what she had
     suffered in trying to keep me at a distance, how often she
     had hoped that I should detect her notwithstanding her
     efforts, how at every sound that fell on her ears she had
     hoped for my arrival; what trouble, joy, and fear she had
     felt on seeing me again; how she had distrusted herself, and
     how, to unite prudence and inclination, she had sought once
     more the distractions of society and the crowds which she
     formerly avoided. I made her repeat the smallest details,
     and this history of a few weeks seemed to us the history of
     a whole life. Love makes up, as it were by magic, for the
     absence of far-reaching memory. All other affections have
     need of the past: love, as by enchantment, makes its own
     past and throws it round us. It gives us the feeling of
     having lived for years with one who yesterday was all but a
     stranger. Itself a mere point of light, it dominates and
     illuminates all time. A little while and it was not: a
     little while and it will be no more: but, as long as it
     exists, its light is reflected alike on the past and on the
     future.

This calm, he goes on to say, lasted but a short time; and, indeed, no one who has read the
book so far is likely to suppose that it did. Adolphe has entered into the liaison to play
the game, Ellénore (unluckily for herself) to be loved. The difference soon brings discord.
In the earlier Sensibility days men and women were nearly on equal terms. It was only in the
most strictly metaphorical way that the unhappy lover was bound to expire, and his beloved
rarely took the method of wringing his bosom recommended by Goldsmith, when anybody else of
proper Sensibility was there to console her. But the game had become unequal between the Charlottes
and the Werthers, the Adolphes and the Ellénores. The Count de P---- naturally perceives the
state of affairs before long, and as naturally does not like it. Adolphe, having played his
game and won it, does not care to go on playing for love merely. "Ellénore était sans doute
un vif plaisir dans mon existence, mais elle n'était pas plus un but--elle était devenue un
lien." But Ellénore does not see this accurate distinction. After many vicissitudes and a few
scenes ("Nous vécûmes ainsi quatre mois dans des rapports forcés, quelque fois doux, jamais
complétement libres, y rencontrant encore du plaisir mais n'y trouvant plus de charme") a crisis
comes. The Count forbids Ellénore to receive Adolphe any more: and she thereupon breaks the
ten years old union, and leaves her children and home.

Her young lover receives this riveting of his chains with consternation, but he does his best.
He defends her in public, he fights with a man who speaks lightly of her, but this is not what
she wants.

     Of course I ought to have consoled her. I ought to have
     pressed her to my heart and said, "Let us live for each
     other; let us forget the misjudgments of men; let us be
     happy in our mutual regard and our mutual love." I tried to
     do so, but what can a resolution made out of duty do to
     revive a sentiment that is extinct? Ellénore and I each
     concealed something from the other. She dared not tell me
     her troubles, arising from a sacrifice which she knew I had
     not asked of her. I had accepted that sacrifice; I dared not
     complain of ills which I had foreseen, and which I had not
     had courage enough to forestall. We were therefore silent on
     the very subject which occupied us both incessantly. We were
     prodigal of caresses, we babbled of love, but when we spoke
     of it we spoke for fear of speaking of something else.

Here is the full Nemesis of the sentiment that, to use Constant's own words, is "neither passion
nor duty," and has the strength of neither, when it finds itself in presence of a stronger
than itself. There were none of these unpleasant meetings in Sensibility proper. There sentiment
met sentiment, and "exchanged itself," in Chamfort's famous phrase. When the rate of exchange
became unsatisfactory it sought some other customer--a facile and agreeable process, which
was quite consistent in practice with all the sighs and flames. Adolphe is not to be quit so
easily of his conquest. He is recalled by his father, and his correspondence with Ellénore
is described in one of the astonishingly true passages which make the book so remarkable.

     During my absence I wrote regularly to Ellénore. I was
     divided between the desire of not hurting her feelings and
     the desire of truthfully representing my own. I should have
     liked her to guess what I felt, but to guess it without
     being hurt by it. I felt a certain satisfaction when I had
     substituted the words "affection," "friendship," "devotion,"
     for the word "love." Then suddenly I saw poor Ellénore
     sitting sad and solitary, with nothing but my letters for
     consolation: and at the end of two cold and artificial pages
     I added in a hurry a few phrases of ardour or of tenderness
     suited to deceive her afresh. In this way, never saying
     enough to satisfy her, I always said enough to mislead her,
     a species of double-dealing the very success of which was
     against my wishes and prolonged my misery.

This situation, however, does not last. Unable to bear his absence, and half puzzled, half
pained by his letters, Ellénore follows him, and his father for the first time expresses displeasure
at this compromising step. Ellénore being threatened with police measures, Adolphe is once
more perforce thrown on her side, and elopes with her to neutral territory. Then events march
quickly. Her father's Polish property, long confiscated, is restored to him and left to her.
She takes Adolphe (still struggling between his obligations to her and his desire to be free)
to Warsaw, rejects an offer of semi-reconciliation from the Count de P----, grows fonder and
more exacting the more weary of her yoke her lover becomes; and at last, discovering his real
sentiments from a correspondence of his with an artful old diplomatic friend of his father's,
falls desperately ill and dies in his arms. A prologue and epilogue, which hint that Adolphe,
far from taking his place in the world (from which he had thought his liaison debarred him),
wandered about in aimless remorse, might perhaps be cut away with advantage, though they are
defensible, not merely on the old theory of political justice, but on sound critical grounds.

[Sidenote: Mme. de Duras's "postscript."]

[Sidenote: Sensibilité and engouement.]

This was the end of sensibility in more senses than one. It is true that, five years later
than Adolphe, appeared Madame de Duras's agreeable novelettes of Ourika and Édouard, in which
something of the old tone revives. But they were written late in their author's life, and avowedly
as a reminiscence of a past state of sentiment and of society. "Le ton de cette société," says
Madame de Duras herself, "était l'engouement." As happy a sentence, perhaps, as can be anywhere
found to describe what has been much written about, and, perhaps it may be said without presumption,
much miswritten about. Engouement itself is a nearly untranslatable word.[413] It may be clumsily
but not inaccurately defined as a state of fanciful interest in persons and things which is
rather more serious than mere caprice, and a good deal less serious than genuine enthusiasm.
The word expresses exactly the attitude of French polite society in the eighteenth century
to a vast number of subjects, and, what is more, it helps to explain the sensibilité which
dominated that society. The two terms mutually involve each other, and sensibilité stands to
mere flirtation on the one hand, and genuine passion on the other, exactly as engouement does
to caprice and enthusiasm. People flirted admirably in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries,
and the art was, I fancy, recovered in the nineteenth with some success, but I do not think
they flirted, properly speaking, in the eighteenth.[414] Sensibility (and its companion "sensuality")
prevented that. Yet, on the other hand, they did not, till the society itself and its sentiments
with it were breaking up, indulge in anything that can be called real passion. Sensibility
prevented that also. The kind of love-making which was popular may be compared without much
fancifulness to the favourite card-game of the period, quadrille. You changed partners pretty
often, and the stakes were not very serious; but the rules of the game were elaborate and precise,
and it did not admit of being treated with levity.

[Sidenote: Some final words on the matter.]

Only a small part, though the most original and not the least remarkable part, of the representation
of this curious phenomenon in literature has been attempted in this discussion. The English
and German developments of it are interesting and famous, and, merely as literature, contain
perhaps better work than the French, but they are not so original, and they are out of our
province. Marivaux[415] served directly as model to both English and German novelists, though
the peculiarity of the national temperament quickly made itself felt in both cases. In England
the great and healthy genius of Fielding applied the humour cure to Sensibility at a very early
period; in Germany the literature of Sensibility rapidly became the literature of suicide--a
consummation than which nothing could be more alien from the original conception. It is true
that there is a good deal of dying in the works of Madame de la Fayette and her imitators.
But it is quite transparent stage-dying, and the virtuous Prince of Clèves and the penitent
Adelaide in the Comte de Comminge do not disturb the mind at all. We know that, as soon as
the curtain has dropped, they will get up again and go home to supper quite comfortably. It
is otherwise with Werther and Adolphe. With all the first-named young man's extravagance, four
generations have known perfectly well that there is something besides absurdity in him, while
in Adolphe there is no extravagance at all. The wind of Sensibility had been sown, in literature
and in life, for many a long year, and the whirlwind had begun to be reaped.[416]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Its importance here.]

This, however, is the moral side of the matter, with which we have not much to do. As a division
of literature these sentimental novels, artificial as they are, have a good deal of interest;
and in a History such as the present they have very great importance. They are so entirely
different in atmosphere from the work of later times, that reading them has all the refreshing
effect of a visit to a strange country; and yet one feels that they themselves have opened
that country for coming writers as well as readers. They are often extraordinarily ingenious,
and the books to which in form they set the example, though the power of the writers made them
something very different in matter--Julie, La Religieuse, Paul et Virginie,[417] Corinne, René--give
their progenitors not a little importance, or at least not a little interest of curiosity.
Besides, it was in the school of Sensibility that the author of Manon Lescaut somehow or other
developed that wonderful little book. I do not know that it would be prudent to recommend modern
readers to study Sensibility for themselves in the original documents just surveyed. Disappointment
and possibly maledictions would probably be the result of any such attempt, except in the case
of Xavier de Maistre and Constant. But these others are just the cases in which the office
of historical critic justifies itself. It is often said (and nobody knows the truth of it better
than critics themselves) that a diligent perusal of all the studies and causeries that have
ever been written, on any one of the really great writers, will not give as much knowledge
of them as half an hour's reading of their own work. But then in that case the metal is virgin,
and to be had on the surface and for the picking up. The case is different where tons of ore
have to be crushed and smelted, in order to produce a few pennyweights of metal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whatever fault may be found with the "Sensibility" novel, it is, as a rule, "written by gentlemen
[and ladies] for [ladies and] gentlemen." Of the work of two curious writers, who may furnish
the last detailed notices of this volume, as much cannot, unfortunately, be said.

[Sidenote: Restif de la Bretonne.]

It may, from different points of view, surprise different classes of readers to find Restif
de la Bretonne (or as some would call him, Rétif) mentioned here at all--at any rate to find
him taken seriously, and not entirely without a certain respect. One of these classes, consisting
of those who know nothing about him save at second-hand, may ground their surprise on the notion
that his work is not only matter for the Index Expurgatorius, but also vulgar and unliterary,
such as a French Ned Ward, without even Ned's gutter-wit, might have written. And these might
derive some support from the stock ticket-jingle Rousseau du ruisseau, which, though not without
some real pertinency, is directly misleading. Another class, consisting of some at least, if
not most, of those who have read him to some extent, may urge that Decency--taking her revenge
for the axiom of the boatswain in Mr. Midshipman Easy--forbids Duty to let him in. And yet
others, less under the control of any Mrs. Grundy, literary or moral, may ask why he is let
in, and Choderlos de Laclos[418] and Louvet de Courray, with some more, kept out, as they most
assuredly will be.

In the first place, there is no vulgarity in Restif. If he had had a more regular education
and society, literary or other, and could have kept his mind, which was to a certainty slightly
unhinged, off the continual obsession of morbid subjects, he might have been a very considerable
man of letters, and he is no mean one, so far as style goes,[419] as it is. He avails himself
duly of the obscurity of a learned language when he has to use (which is regrettably often)
words that do not appear in the dictionary of the Academy: and there is not the slightest evidence
of his having taken to pornography for money, as Louvet and Laclos--as, one must regretfully
add, Diderot, if not even Crébillon--certainly did. When a certain subject, or group of subjects,
gets hold of a man--especially one of those whom a rather celebrated French lady called les
cérébraux--he can think of nothing else: and though this is not absolutely true of Restif (for
he had several minor crazes), it is very nearly true of him, and perhaps more true than of
any one else who can be called a man of letters.

Probably no one has read all he wrote;[420] even the late M. Assézat, who knew more about him
than anybody else, does not, I think, pretend to have done so. He was himself a printer, and
therefore found exceptional means of getting the mischief, which his by no means idle hands
found to do, into publicity of a kind, though even their subject does not seem to have made
his books popular.[421] His largest work, Les Contemporaines, is in forty-two volumes, and
contains some three hundred different sections, reminding one vaguely, though the differences
in detail are very great, of Amory's plan, at least, for the Memoirs of Several Ladies. His
most remarkable by far, the quasi-autobiographical Monsieur Nicolas,[422] in fourteen. He could
write with positive moral purpose, as in the protest against Le Paysan Parvenu, above referred
to; in La Vie de Mon Père (a book agreeably free from any variety of that sin of Ham which
some biographical writings of sons about their fathers display); and in the unpleasantly titled
Pornographe, which is also morally intended, and dull enough to be as moral as Mrs. Trimmer
or Dr. Forsyth.

Indeed, this moral intention, so often idly and offensively put forward by those who are themselves
mere pornographers, pervades Restif throughout, and, while it certainly sometimes does carry
dulness with it, undoubtedly contributes at others a kind of piquancy, because of its evident
sincerity, and the quaint contrast with the subjects the author is handling. These subjects
make explicit dealing with himself difficult, if not impossible: but his differentia as regards
them may, with the aid of a little dexterity, be put without offence. In the first place, as
regards the comparison with Rousseau, Restif is almost a gentleman: and he could not possibly
have been guilty of Rousseau's blackguard tale-telling in the cases of Madame de Warens (or,
as I believe, we are now told to spell it "Vuarrens") or Madame de Larnage. The way in which
he speaks of his one idealised mistress, Madame "Parangon," is almost romantic. He is, indeed,
savage in respect to his wife--whom he seems to have married in a sort of clairvoyant mixture
of knowledge of her evil nature and fascination by her personal charms and allurements, though
he had had no difficulty in enjoying these without marriage. But into none other of his scores
and hundreds of actual loves in some cases and at least passing intimacies in others,[423]
does he ever appear to have taken either the Restoration and Regency tone on the one hand,
or that of "sickly sentimentality" on the other. Against commerce for money he lifts up his
testimony unceasingly; he has, as his one editor has put it, a manie de paternité, and denounces
any vice disconnected with it. With the privileges of Solomon or Haroun al Raschid, Restif
would have been perfectly contented: and he never would have availed himself of that of Schahriar
before the two divine sisters put a stop to it.

All this, however, strictly speaking, is outside our present subject, and is merely intended
as a sort of excuse for the introduction of a writer who has been unfairly ostracised, not
as a passport for Restif to the young person. But his actual qualities as tale-teller are very
remarkable. The second title of Monsieur Nicolas--Le Coeur Humain Dévoilé--ambitious as it
is, is not fatuous. It is a human heart in a singularly morbid condition which is unveiled:
but as, if I remember rightly, either Goethe or Schiller, or both, saw and said near the time,
there is no charlatanery about the unveiling, and no bungling about the autopsy. Restif has
been compared, and not unfairly, to Defoe, as well as to Rousseau; in a certain way he may
be likened to Pepys; and all four share an intense and unaffected reality, combined, however,
in the Frenchman's case with a sort of exaggeration of a dreamy kind, and with other dream-character,
which reminds one of Borrow, and even of De Quincey. His absolute shamelessness is less unconnected
with this dream-quality than may at first appear, and, as in all such cases, is made much less
offensive by it. Could he ever have taken holiday from his day-long and night-long devotion to

        Cotytto or Venus
    Astarte or Ashtoreth,

he might have been a most remarkable novelist, and as it is his mere narrative faculty is such
as by no means every novelist possesses. Moreover, he counts, once more, in the advance towards
real things in fiction. "A pretty kind of reality!" cries Mrs. Grundy. But the real is not
always the pretty, and the pretty is not always the real.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Pigault-Lebrun--the difference of his positive and relative importance.]

There is also a good deal that is curious, as well as many things that are disgusting, for
the student of the novel in Pigault-Lebrun.[424] In the first place, one is constantly reminded
of that redeeming point which the benevolent Joe Gargery found in Mr. Pumblechook--

    And, wotsume'er the failings on his part,
    He were a corn-and-seedsman in his hart.

If Pigault cannot exactly be said to have been a good novelist, he "were" a novelist "in his
hart." Beside his polissonneries, his frequent dulness, his singular gropings and failures
at anything like good novelist faire, one constantly finds what might be pedantically and barbarously
called a "novelistic velleity." His much too ambitiously titled Mélanges Littéraires turn to
stories, though stories touched with the polisson brush. His Nouvelles testify at least to
his ambition and his industry in the craft of fiction. "Je ne suis pas Voltaire," he says somewhere,
in reference, I think, to his plays, not his tales. He most certainly is not; neither is he
Marmontel, as far as the tale is concerned. But as for the longer novel, in a blind and blundering
way, constantly trapped and hindered by his want of genius and his want of taste, by his literary
ill-breeding and other faults, he seems to have more of a "glimmering" of the real business
than they have, or than any other Frenchman had before him.

[Sidenote: His general characteristics.]

Pigault-Lebrun[425] spent nearly half of his long life in the nineteenth century, and did not
die till Scott was dead in England, and the great series of novel-romances had begun, with
Hugo and others, in France. But he was a man of nearly fifty in 1800, and the character of
his work, except in one all-important point, or group of points, is thoroughly of the eighteenth,
while even the excepted characteristics are of a more really transitional kind than anything
in Chateaubriand and Madame de Staël, whom we have postponed, as well as in Constant and Xavier
de Maistre, whom we have admitted. He has no high reputation in literature, and, except from
our own special point of view, he does not deserve even a demi-reputation. Although he is not
deliberately pornographic, he is exceedingly coarse, with a great deal of the nastiness which
is not even naughty, but nastiness pure and simple. There is, in fact, and in more ways than
one, something in him of an extremely inferior Smollett. Comparing him with his elder contemporary,
Restif de la Bretonne, he is vulgar, which Restif never is. Passing to more purely literary
matters, it would be difficult, from the side of literature as an art--I do not say as a craft--to
say anything for him whatever. His style[426] is, I should suppose (for I think no foreigner
has any business to do more than "suppose" in that matter), simply wretched; he has sentences
as long as Milton's or Clarendon's or Mr. Ruskin's, not merely without the grandeur of the
first, the beauty of the last, and the weighty sense of the second, but lacking any flash of
graceful, pithy, or witty phrase; character of the model-theatre and cut-out paper kind; a
mere accumulation of incidents instead of a plot; hardly an attempt at dialogue, and, where
description is attempted at all, utter ineffectiveness or sheer rhyparography.[427]

It is a fair riposte to the last paragraph to ask, "Then why do you drag him in here at all?"
But the counter-parry is easy. The excepted points above supply it. With all his faults--admitting,
too, that every generation since his time has supplied some, and most much better, examples
of his kind--the fact remains that he was the first considerable representative, in his own
country, of that variety of professional novelist who can spin yarns, of the sort that his
audience or public[428] wants, with unwearied industry, in great volume, and of a quality which,
such as it is, does not vary very much. He is, in short, the first notable French novelist-tradesman--the
first who gives us notice that novel-production is established as a business. There is even
a little more than this to be said for him. He has really made considerable progress, if we
compare him with his predecessors and contemporaries, in the direction of the novel of ordinary
life, as that life was in his own day. There are extravagances of course, but they are scarcely
flagrant. His atmosphere is what the cooks, housemaids, footmen, what the grocers and small-
or middle-class persons who, I suppose, chiefly read him, were, or would have liked to be,
accustomed to. His scene is not a paradise in either the common or the Greek sense; it is a
sort of cabbage-garden, with a cabbage-garden's lack of beauty, of exquisiteness in any form,
with its presence of untidiness, and sometimes of evil odour, but with its own usefulness,
and with a cultivator of the most sedulous. Pigault-Lebrun, for France, may be said to be the
first author-in-chief of the circulating library. It may not be a position of exceeding honour;
but it is certainly one which gives him a place in the story of the novel, and which justifies
not merely these general remarks on him, but some analysis (not too abundant) of his particular
works. As for translating him, a Frenchman might as well spend his time in translating the
English newspaper feuilletons of "family" papers in the earlier and middle nineteenth century.
Indeed that Minnigrey, which I remember reading as a boy, and which long afterwards my friend,
the late Mr. Henley, used to extol as one of the masterpieces of literature, is worth all Pigault
put together and a great deal more.

[Sidenote: L'Enfant du Carnaval and Les Barons de Felsheim.]

The worst of it is, that to be amused by him--to be, except as a student, even interested in
a large part of his work--you must be almost as ill-bred in literature as he himself is. He
is like a person who has had before him no models for imitation or avoidance in behaviour:
and this is where his successor, Paul de Kock, by the mere fact of being his successor, had
a great advantage over him. But to the student he is interesting, and the interest has nothing
factitious in it, and nothing to be ashamed of. There is something almost pathetic in his struggles
to master his art: and his frequent remonstrances with critics and readers appear to show a
genuine consciousness of his state, which is not always the case with such things.

The book which stands first in his Works, L'Enfant du Carnaval, starts with an ultra-Smollettian[429]
passage of coarseness, and relapses now and then. The body of it--occupied with the history
of a base-born child, who tumbles into the good graces of a Milord and his little daughter,
is named by them "Happy," and becomes first the girl's lover and then her husband--is a heap
of extravagances, which, nevertheless, bring the picaresque pattern, from which they are in
part evidently traced, to a point, not of course anywhere approaching in genius Don Quixote
or Gil Blas, but somehow or other a good deal nearer general modern life. Les Barons de Felsheim,
which succeeds it, seems to have taken its origin from a suggestion of the opening of Candide,
and continues with a still wilder series of adventures, satirising German ways, but to some
extent perhaps inspired by German literature. Very commonly Pigault falls into a sort of burlesque
melodramatic style, with frequent interludes of horse-play, resembling that of the ineffably
dreary persons who knock each others' hats off on the music-hall stage. There is even something
dreamlike about him, though of a very low order of dream; he has at any rate the dream-habit
of constantly attempting something and finding that he cannot bring it off.

At the close of one of his most extravagant, most indecent, and stupidest novels, La Folie
Espagnole--a supposed tale of chivalry, which of course shows utter ignorance of time, place,
and circumstance, and is, in fact, only a sort of travestied Gil Blas, with a rank infusion
of further vulgarised Voltairianism[430]--the author has a rather curious note to the reader,
whom he imagines (with considerable probability) to be throwing the book away with a suggested
cry of "Quelles misères! quel fatras!" He had, he says, previously offered Angélique et Jeanneton,
a little work of a very different kind, and the public would neither buy nor read it. His publisher
complained, and he must try to please. As for La Folie, everybody, including his cook, can
understand this. One remembers similar expostulations from more respectable authors; but it
is quite certain that Pigault-Lebrun--a Lebrun so different from his contemporary "Pindare"
of that name--thoroughly meant what he said. He was drawing a bow, always at a venture, with
no higher aim than to hit his public, and he did hit it oftener than he missed. So much the
worse, perhaps, both for him and for his public; but the fact is a fact, and it is in the observation
and correlation of facts that history consists.

[Sidenote: Angélique et Jeanneton.]

Angélique et Jeanneton itself, as might be expected from the above reference, is, among its
author's works, something like Le Rêve among Zola's; it is his endeavour to be strictly proper.
But, as it is also one of his most Sternian exercises, the propriety is chequered. It begins
in sufficiently startling fashion; a single gentleman of easy fortune and amiable disposition,
putting his latchkey in the door of his chambers one night, is touched and accosted by an interesting
young person with an "argentine" voice. This may look louche; but the silvery accents appeal
only for relief of needs, which, as it shortly appears, are those most properly to be supplied
by a maternity hospital. It is to be understood that the suppliant is an entire stranger to
the hero. He behaves in the most amiable and, indeed, noble fashion, instals her in his rooms,
turns himself and his servant out to the nearest hotel, fetches the proper ministress, and,
not content with this Good Samaritanism, effects a legitimate union between Jeanneton and her
lover, half gives and half procures them a comfortable maintenance, resists temptation of repayment
(not in coin) on more than one occasion, and sets out, on foot, to Caudebec, to see about a
heritage which has come to Jeanneton's husband. On the way he falls in with Angélique (a lady
this time), falls also in love with her, and marries her. The later part of the story, as is
rather the way with Pigault, becomes more "accidented." There are violent scenes, jealousies,
not surprising, between the two heroines, etc. But the motto-title of Marmontel's Heureusement
governs all, and the end is peace, though not without some spots in its sun. That the public
of 1799 did not like the book and did like La Folie Espagnole is not surprising; but the bearing
of this double attempt on the growth of novel-writing as a regular craft is important.

[Sidenote: Mon Oncle Thomas.]

Perhaps on the whole Mon Oncle Thomas, which seems to have been one of the most popular, is
also one of the most representative, if not the best, of Pigault-Lebrun's novels. Its opening,
and not its opening only, is indeed full of that mere nastiness which we, with Smollett and
others to our discredit, cannot disclaim for our own parallel period, and which was much worse
among the French, who have a choice selection of epithets for it. But the fortunes of the youthful
Thomas--child of a prostitute of the lowest class, though a very good mother, who afterwards
marries a miserly and ruffianly corporal of police--are told with a good deal of spirit--one
even thinks of Colonel Jack--and the author shows his curious vulgar common sense, and his
knowledge of human nature of a certain kind, pretty frequently, at least in the earlier part
of the book.

[Sidenote: Jérôme.]

Jérôme is another of Pigault's favourite studies of boys--distinctly blackguard boys as a rule--from
their mischievous, or, as the early English eighteenth century would have put it, "unlucky"
childhood, to their most undeserved reward with a good and pretty wife (whom one sincerely
pities), and more or less of a fortune. There is, however, more vigour in Jérôme than in most,
and, if one has the knack of "combing out" the silly and stale Voltairianism, and paying little
attention to the far from exciting sculduddery, the book may be read. It contains, in particular,
one of the most finished of its author's sketches, of a type which he really did something
to introduce into his country's literature--that of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic routier
or professional soldier--brave as you like, and--at least at some times when neither drunk
nor under the influence of the garden god--not ungenerous; with a certain simplicity too: but
as braggart as he is brave; a mere brute beast as regards the other sex; utterly ignorant,
save of military matters, and in fact a kind of caricature of the older type, which the innocent
Rymer was so wrath with Shakespeare for neglecting in Iago.

[Sidenote: The redeeming points of these.]

It may seem that too much space is being given to a reprobate and often dull author; but something
has been said already to rebut the complaint, and something more may be added now and again.
French literature, from the death of Chénier to the appearance of Lamartine, has generally
been held to contain hardly more than two names--those of Chateaubriand and Madame de Staël--which
can even "seem to be" those of "pillars"; and it may appear fantastic and almost insulting
to mention one, who in long stretches of his work might almost be called a mere muckheap-raker,
in company with them. Yet, in respect to the progress of his own department, it may be doubted
whether he is not even more than their equal. René and Corinne contain great suggestions, but
they are suggestions rather for literature generally than for the novel proper. Pigault used
the improperest materials; he lacked not merely taste, but that humour which sometimes excuses
taste's absence; power of creating real character, decency almost always, sense very often.[431]
But all the same, he made the novel march, as it had not marched, save in isolated instances
of genius, before.

[Sidenote: Others--Adélaïde de Méran and Tableaux de Société.]

[Sidenote: L'Officieux.]

Yet Pigault could hardly have deserved even the very modified praise which has been given to
him, if he had been constant to the muckheap. He could never quite help approaching it now
and then; but as time went on and the Empire substituted a sort of modified decency for the
Feasts of Republican Reason and ribaldry, he tried things less uncomely. Adélaïde de Méran
(his longest single book), Tableaux de Société, L'Officieux, and others, are of this class;
and without presenting a single masterpiece in their own kind, they all, more or less, give
evidence of that advance in the kind generally with which their author has been credited. Adélaïde
is very strongly reminiscent of Richardson, and more than reminiscent of "Sensibility"; it
is written in letters--though all by and to the same persons, except a few extracts--and there
is no individuality of character. Pigault, it has been said, never has any, though he has some
of type. But by exercising the most violent constraint upon himself, he indulges only in one
rape (though there have been narrow escapes before), in not more than two or three questionable
incidents, and in practically no "improper" details--conduct almost deserving the description
of magnanimity and self-denial. Moreover, the thing really is a modern novel, though a bad
and rickety one; the indefinable naturaleza is present in it after a strange fashion. There
is less perhaps in the very inappropriately named Tableaux de Société--the autobiography of
a certain Fanchette de Francheville, who, somewhat originally for a French heroine, starts
by being in the most frantic state of mutual passion with her husband, though this is soon
to be succeeded by an infatuation (for some time virtuously resisted) on her side for a handsome
young naval officer, and by several others (not at all virtuously resisted) for divers ladies
on the husband's. With his usual unskilfulness in managing character, Pigault makes very little
of the opportunities given by his heroine's almost unconscious transference of her affections
to Sainte-Luce; while he turns the uxorious husband, not out of jealousy merely, into a faithless
one, and something like a general ruffian, after a very clumsy and "unconvincing" fashion.
As for his throwing in, at the end, another fatal passion on part of their daughter for her
mother's lover, it is, though managed with what is for the author, perfect cleanliness, entirely
robbed of its always doubtful effect by the actual marriage of Fanchette and her sailor, and
that immediately after the poor girl's death. If he had had the pluck to make this break off
the whole thing, the book might have been a striking novel, as it is actually an attempt at
one; but Pigault, like his friends of the gallery, was almost inviolably constant to happy
endings.[432] L'Officieux, if he had only had a little humour, might have been as good comically
as the Tableaux might have been tragically; for it is the history, sometimes not ill-sketched
as far as action goes, of a parvenu rich, but brave and extremely well-intentioned marquis,
who is perpetually getting into fearful scrapes from his incorrigible habit of meddling with
other people's affairs to do them good. The situations--as where the marquis, having, through
an extravagance of officiousness, got himself put under arrest by his commanding officer, and
at the same time insulted by a comrade, insists on fighting the necessary duel in his own drawing-room,
and thereby reconciling duty and honour, to the great terror of a lady with whom he has been
having a tender interview in the adjoining apartment--are sometimes good farce, and almost
good comedy; but Pigault, like Shadwell, has neither the pen nor the wits to make the most of them.

La Famille Luceval--something of an expanded and considerably Pigaultified story à la Marmontel--is
duller than any of these, and the opening is marred by an exaggerated study of a classical
mania on the part of the hero; but still the novel quality is not quite absent from it.

[Sidenote: Further examples.]

Of the rest, M. Botte, which seems to have been a favourite, is a rather conventional extravaganza
with a rich, testy, but occasionally generous uncle; a nephew who falls in love with the charming
but penniless daughter of an émigré; a noble rustic, who manages to keep some of his exiled
landlord's property together, etc. M. de Roberval, though in its original issue not so long
as Adélaïde de Méran, becomes longer by a suite of another full volume, and is a rather tedious
chronicle of ups and downs. There may be silence about the remainder.

[Sidenote: Last words on him.]

The stock and, as it may be called, "semi-official" ticket for Pigault-Lebrun in such French
literary history as takes notice of him, appears to be verve: and the recognised dictionary-sense
of verve is "heat of imagination, which animates the artist in his composition." In the higher
sense in which the word imagination is used with us, it could never be applied here; but he
certainly has a good deal of "go," which is perhaps not wholly improper as a colloquial Anglicising
of the label. But Pigault has this "go"--never perhaps for a whole book, but sometimes for
passages of considerable length, which possess "carrying" power. It undoubtedly gave him his
original popularity, and we need not despise it now, inasmuch as it makes less tedious the
task of ascertaining and justifying his true place in the further "domestication"--if only
in domesticities too often mean and grimy--of the French novel.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: The French novel in 1800.]

There are more reasons than the convenience of furnishing a separately published first volume
with an interim conclusion, for making, at the close of this, a few remarks on the general
state of the French novel at the end of the eighteenth century. No thoroughly similar point
is reached in the literary history of France, or of any country known to me, in regard to a
particular department of literature. In England--the only place, which can, in this same department,
be even considered in comparison, although at this very time two novelists, vastly superior
to any of whom France has to boast, were just writing, or just about to write, and were a little
later to revolutionise the novel itself--the general state and history of the kind had, for
nearly two generations, reached a stage far beyond anything that France could claim. She had
made earlier "running"; on the whole period of some seven hundred years she had always, till
very recently, been in front. But in the novel, as distinguished from the romance, she had
absolutely nothing to show like our great quartette of the mid-eighteenth century, and hardly
anything to match the later developments of Miss Burney and others in domestic, of Mrs. Radcliffe
and others still in revived romantic fiction. Very great Frenchmen or French writers had written
novels; but, with the exceptions of Lesage in Gil Blas, Prévost in that everlastingly wonderful
"single-speech" of his, and Rousseau in La Nouvelle Héloïse, none had written a great novel.
No single writer of any greatness had been a novelist pure and simple. No species[433] of fiction,
except the short tale, in which, through varying forms, France held an age-long mastery, had
been thoroughly developed in her literature.

The main point, where England went right and France went wrong--to be only in the most equivocal
way corrected by such a writer as Pigault-Lebrun--was the recognition of the connection--the
intimate and all but necessary connection--of the completed novel with ordinary life. Look
over the long history of fiction which we have surveyed in the last three or four or five chapters.
There is much and sometimes great literary talent; sometimes, again, even genius; there are
episodes of reality; there are most artful adjustments of type and convention and the like,
of fashion in morals (or immorals) and sentiments. But a real objective novel of ordinary life,
such as Tom Jones, or even Humphry Clinker, nay, such inferior approaches to it as exist elsewhere
in English, you will not find. Of the Scudéry romances we need not speak again; for all their
key-references to persons, and their abstention from the supernatural, etc., they are, as wholes,
hardly more real than Amadis and its family themselves. Scarron has some and Furetière more
objectivity that may be argued for, but the Spanish picaresque has become a convention, and
they, especially Scarron, are aiming more at the pattern than at the life-model. Madame de
la Fayette has much, and some of her followers a little, real passion; but her manners, descriptions,
etc., are all conventional, though of another kind. The fairy tales are of course not "real."
Marivaux is aiming directly at Sensibility, preciousness, "psychology," if you like, but not
at holding up the glass to any ordinary nature as such.[434] And though Crébillon might plead
that his convention was actually the convention of hundreds and almost thousands of accomplished
ladies and gentlemen, no one can deny that it was almost as much a convention as the historical
or legendary acting of the Comédie Humaine by living persons a hundred years later at Venice.

No writer perhaps illustrates what is being said better than Prévost. No one of his books,
voluminous as they are, has the very slightest reality, except Manon Lescaut; and that, like
La Princesse de Clèves, though with much more intensity and fortunately with no alloy of convention
whatever, is simply a study of passion, not of life at large at all. With the greater men the
case alters to some extent in proportion to their greatness, but, again with one exception,
not to such an extent as to affect the general rule. Voltaire avowedly never attempts ordinary
representation of ordinary life--save as the merest by-work, it is all "purpose," satire, fancy.
Rousseau may not, in one sense, go beyond that life in Julie, but in touching it he is almost
as limited and exclusive as Prévost in his masterpiece. Diderot has to get hold of the abnormal,
if not the unreal, before he can give you something like a true novel. Marmontel is half-fanciful,
and though he does touch reality, subordinates it constantly to half-allegorical and wholly
moral purpose. All the minor "Sensibility" folk follow their leaders, and so do all the minor
conteurs.

The people (believed to be a numerous folk) who are uncomfortable with a fact unless some explanation
of it is given, may be humoured here. The failure of a very literary nation--applying the most
disciplined literary language in Europe to a department, in the earlier stages of which they
had led Europe itself--to get out of the trammels which we had easily discarded, is almost
demonstrably connected with the very nature of their own literary character. Until the most
recent years, if not up to the very present day, few Frenchmen have ever been happy without
a type, a "kind," a set of type-and kind-rules, a classification and specification, as it were,
which has to be filled up and worked over. Of all this the novel had nothing in ancient times,
while in modern it had only been wrestling and struggling towards something of the sort, and
had only in one country discovered, and not quite consciously there, that the beauty of the
novel lies in having no type, no kind, no rules, no limitations, no general precept or motto
for the craftsman except "Here is the whole of human life before you. Copy it, or, better,
recreate it--with variation and decoration ad libitum--as faithfully, but as freely, as you
can." Of this great fact even Fielding, the creator of the modern novel, was perhaps not wholly
aware as a matter of theory, though he made no error about it in practice. Indeed the "comic
prose epic" notion might reduce to rules like those of the verse. Both Scott and Miss Austen
abstained likewise from formalising it. But every really great novel has illustrated it; and
attempts, such as have been recently made, to contest it and draw up a novelists' code, have
certainly not yet justified themselves according to the Covenant of Works, and have at least
not disposed some of us to welcome them as a Covenant of Faith. It is because Pigault-Lebrun,
though a low kind of creature from every point of view, except that of mere craftsmanship,
did, like his betters, recognise the fact in practice, that he has been allowed here a place
of greater consideration than perhaps has ever fallen to his lot before in literary history.

Still, even putting out of sight the new developments which had shown the irrepressible vitality
of the French conte, the seven hundred years had not been wasted. The product of the first
half of them remained, indeed, at this time sealed up in the "gazophile" of the older age,
or was popularised only by well-meaning misinterpreters like the Comte de Tressan;[435] but
the treasure-house was very soon to be broken open and utilised. It is open to any one to contend--it
is, indeed, pretty much the opinion of the present writer--that it was this very neglect which
had made the progress of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries themselves so slow and so
imperfect in its total results. For those who like to look for literary causes outside literature,
there may be other explanations. But any intelligent reader can do something for himself if
he has the facts before him. It is these facts that it has been and will be our business to
give and to summarise here.

They have been given; let us attempt to summarise them in the briefest possible way. France
possibly did not invent Romance; no man or men could do that; it was a sort of deferred heritage
which Humankind, like the Heir of Lynne, discovered when it was ready to hang itself (speaking
in terms of literature) during the Dark Ages. But she certainly grew the seed for all other
countries, and dispersed the growth to the ends of the earth. Very much the same was the case
with the short tale in the "Middle" period. From the fifteenth century to the eighteenth (both
included) she entered upon a curious kind of wilderness, studded with oases of a more curious
character still. In one of them Rabelais was born, and found Quintessence, and of that finding--more
fortunate than the result of True Thomas finding the Elf Queen--was born Pantagruelism. In
another came Lesage, and though his work was scarcely original, it was consummate. None of
these happy sojourns produced a Don Quixote or a Tom Jones, but divers smaller things resulted.
And again and again, as had happened in the Middle Ages themselves, but on a smaller scale,
what France did found development and improvement in other lands; while her own miniature masterpieces,
from the best of the Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles and the Heptameron, through all others that we
noticed down to Adolphe, showed the enormous power which was working half blindly. How the
strength got eyes, and the eyes found the right objects to fix upon, must be left, if fortune
favour, for the next volume to tell.[436]

FOOTNOTES:

[404] We have seen above how things were "shaping for" it, in the Pastoral and Heroic romances.
But the shape was not definitely taken in them.

[405] In the following pages, and here only in this volume, the author has utilised, though
with very considerable alterations, some previously published work, A Study of Sensibility,
which appeared originally in the Fortnightly Review for September 1882, and was republished
in a volume (Essays on French Novelists, London, 1891) which has been for some years out of
print. Much of the original essay, dealing with Marivaux and others already treated here, has
been removed, and the whole has been cut down, revised, and adjusted to its new contexts. But
it seemed unnecessary to waste time in an endeavour to say the same thing differently about
matters which, though as a whole indispensable, are, with perhaps one exception, individually
not of the first importance.

[406] These words were originally written more than thirty years ago. I am not sure that there
was not something prophetic in them.

[407] Madame de Fontaines in La Comtesse de Savoie and Amenophis "follows her leader" in more
senses than one--including a sort of pseudo-historical setting or insetting which became almost
a habit. But she is hardly important.

[408] Readers of Thackeray may remember in The Paris Sketch Book ("On the French School of
Painting," p. 52, Oxford ed.) some remarks on Jacquand's picture, "The Death of Adelaide de
Comminge," which he thought "neither more nor less than beautiful." But from his "it appears,"
in reference to the circumstances, it would seem that he did not know the book, save perhaps
from a catalogue-extract or summary.

[409] The extreme shortness of all these books may be just worth noticing. Reaction from the
enormous romances of the preceding century may have had something to do with it; and the popularity
of the "tale" something more. But the causa verissima was probably the impossibility of keeping
up sentiment at high pressure for any length of time, incident, or talk.

[410] Vide on the process Crébillon's Les Égarements du Coeur et de l'Esprit, as above, pp.
371, 372.

[411] The parallel with "George Eliot" will strike most people.

[412] But for uniformity's sake I should not have translated this, for fear of doing it injustice.
"Not presume to dictate," in Mr. Jingle's constantly useful phrase, but it seems to me one
of the finest in French prose.

[413] "Craze" has been suggested; but is, I think, hardly an exact synonym.

[414] This may seem to contradict, or at any rate to be inconsistent with, a passage above
(p. 367) on the "flirtations" of Crébillon's personages. It is, however, only a more strictly
accurate use of the word.

[415] Two remarkable and short passages of his, not quoted in the special notice of him, may
be given--one in English, because of its remarkable anticipation of the state of mind of Catherine
Morland in Northanger Abbey; the other in French, as a curious "conclusion of the whole matter."
They are both from Marianne.

"I had resolved not to sleep another night in the house. I cannot indeed tell you what was
the exact object of my fear, or why it was so lively. All that I know is that I constantly
beheld before me the countenance of my landlord, to which I had hitherto paid no particular
attention, and then I began to find terrible things in this countenance His wife's face, too,
seemed to be gloomy and dark; the servants looked like scoundrels; all their faces made me
in a state of unbearable alarm. I saw before me swords, daggers, murders, thefts, insults.
My blood grew cold at the perils I imagined."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Enfin ces agitations, tant agréables que pénibles, s'affaiblirent et se passèrent. L'âme s'accoutume
à tout; sa sensibilité s'use: et je me familiarisais avec mes espérances et mes inquiétudes."

[416] Since, long ago, I formed the opinion of Adolphe embodied above, I have, I think, seen
French criticisms which took it rather differently--as a personal confession of the "confusions
of a wasted youth," misled by passion. The reader must judge which is the juster view.

[417] By a little allowance for influence, if not for intrinsic value.

[418] On representations from persons of distinction I have given Laclos a place in an outhouse
(see "Add. and Corr."). But I have made this place as much of a penitentiary as I could.

[419] I must apologise by anticipation to the official French critic. To him, I know, even
if he is no mere minor Malherbe, Restif's style is very faulty; but I should not presume to
take his point of view, either for praise or blame.

[420] There is a separate bibliography by Cubières-Palmézeaux (1875). The useful Dictionnaire
des Littératures of Vapereau contains a list of between thirty and forty separate works of
Restif's, divided into nearer two than one hundred volumes. He followed Prévost in Nouveaux
Mémoires d'un Homme de Qualité as he had followed Marivaux in the Paysan Perverti. He completed
this work of his own with La Paysanne Pervertie; he wrote, besides the Pornographe, numerous
books of social, general, and would-be philosophical reform--Le Mimographe, dealing with the
stage; Les Gynographes, with a general plan for rearranging the status of women; L'Andrographe,
a "whole duty of man" of a very novel kind; Le Thesmographe, etc.,--besides, close upon the
end and after the autobiography above described, a Philosophie de M. Nicolas. His more or less
directly narrative pieces, Le Pied de Fanchette, Lucile, Adèle, La Femme Infidèle, Ingénue
Saxancour, are nearly always more or less tinged with biography of himself and of persons closely
connected with him, as La Vie de Mon Père, his most respectable book, is wholly. It may be
added, perhaps, that the notice in Vapereau, while not bearing very hard on Restif on the whole,
repeats the words cynisme and cynique in regard to him. Unless the term is in part limited
and in part extended, so as to mean nothing but "exposure of things generally kept secret without
apparent shame," it is entirely misplaced. Not merely outside of, but actually in his erotomania,
Restif was a sentimental philanthropist of the all but most genuine kind, tainted indeed with
the vanity and self-centredness which had reached their acme in Rousseau, but very much more
certainly sincere, and of a temperament as different as possible from what is commonly called
cynicism.

[421] There are, however, contradictory statements on this point.

[422] Nicolas [Edme] Restif being apparently his baptismal name, and "de la Bretonne" merely
one of the self-bestowed agnominal nourishes so common in the French eighteenth century. He
chose to consider the surname evidence of descent from the Emperor Pertinax; and as for his
Christian name he seems to have varied it freely. Rose Lambelin, one of his harem, and a soubrette
of some literature, used to address him as "Anne-Augustin," Anne being, as no doubt most readers
know, a masculine as well as a feminine prénom in French.

