     A proof that even the humblest fortune may grant happiness, which
     depends not on circumstances but constitution.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 22: From "The Vicar of Wakefield," by Oliver Goldsmith, a celebrated English author
(1728-1774).]

     EXPRESSION: In this selection and the two which follow we have
     three other specimens of English prose fiction. You will observe
     that they are very different in style, as well as in subject, from
     the three specimens at the beginning of this book. Compare them
     with one another. Reread the selections from Dickens, Thackeray,
     and George Eliot, and compare them with these. Which do you like
     best? Why?

II.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 23: From "The Pilgrim's Progress," by John Bunyan, a famous English preacher and
writer (1628-1688).]

     EXPRESSION: What peculiarities do you observe in Bunyan's style of
     writing? Select the three most striking passages in this story, and
     read them with spirit and correct expression.

"'A man can but do his best!' as Hubert says," answered Locksley.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 24: From "Ivanhoe," by Sir Walter Scott.]

     EXPRESSION: Compare this selection with the two which precede it.
     "Pilgrim's Progress," "The Vicar of Wakefield," and "Ivanhoe" rank
     high among the world's most famous books. Notice how long ago each
     was written. Talk with your teacher about Bunyan, Goldsmith, and
     Scott--their lives and their writings. He paused--for naught
     Told what was going on within;
   How keen the stars, his only thought,--
     The air how cold and calm and thin,
       In the solemn midnight,
         Centuries ago!

   Oh, strange indifference! low and high
     Drowsed over common joys and cares;
   The earth was still--but knew not why;
     The world was listening unawares.
   How calm a moment may precede
     One that shall thrill the world forever!
   To that still moment none would heed
     Man's doom was linked no more to sever,
       In the solemn midnight,
         Centuries ago.

   It is the calm and solemn night:
     A thousand bells ring out and throw
   Their joyous peals abroad, and smite
     The darkness--charmed and holy now!
   The night that erst no name had worn,
     To it a happy name is given;
   For in that stable lay, newborn,
     The peaceful Prince of earth and heaven,
       In the solemn midnight,
         Centuries ago.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 26: From "A Christmas Carol," by Charles Dickens.]

THE CHRISTMAS HOLLY[27]

   The holly! the holly! oh, twine it with bay--
     Come give the holly a song;
   For it helps to drive stern winter away,
     With his garment so somber and long;
   It peeps through the trees with its berries of red,
     And its leaves of burnished green,
   When the flowers and fruits have long been dead,
     And not even the daisy is seen.
   Then sing to the holly, the Christmas holly,
     That hangs over peasant and king;
   While we laugh and carouse 'neath its glittering boughs,
     To the Christmas holly we'll sing.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 27: By Eliza Cook, an English poet (1818-1889).]

     EXPRESSION: Imagine that you see Mr. Fezziwig with his apprentices
     preparing for the Christmas festivities. What is your opinion of
     him? Now read the story, paragraph by paragraph, trying to make it
     as interesting to your hearers as a real visit to Fezziwig
     warehouse would have been.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 28: By Charles Lamb, an English essayist and humorist (1775-1834).]

     EXPRESSION: What holidays are named in this selection? What
     holidays do you know about that were not present at this dinner?
     Refer to the dictionary and learn about all the days here
     mentioned. Select the humorous passages in this story, and tell why
     you think they are humorous.

THE TOWN PUMP[29]

[SCENE.--The corner of two principal streets. The Town Pump talking through its nose.]

Noon, by the north clock! Noon, by the east! High noon, too, by those hot sunbeams which fall,
scarcely aslope, upon my head, and almost make the water bubble and smoke in the trough under
my nose. Truly, we public characters have a tough time of it! And among all the town officers,
chosen at the annual meeting, where is he that sustains, for a single year, the burden of such
manifold duties as are imposed in perpetuity, upon the Town Pump?

The title of town treasurer is rightfully mine, as guardian of the best treasure the town has.
The overseers of the poor ought to make me their chairman since I provide bountifully for the
pauper, without expense to him that pays taxes. I am at the head of the fire department, and
one of the physicians of the board of health. As a keeper of the peace all water drinkers confess
me equal to the constable. I perform some of the duties of the town clerk, by promulgating
public notices, when they am pasted on my front.

To speak within bounds, I am chief person of the municipality, and exhibit, moreover, an admirable
pattern to my brother officers by the cool, steady, upright, downright, and impartial discharge
of my business, and the constancy with which I stand to my post. Summer or winter, nobody seeks
me in vain; for, all day long I am seen at the busiest corner, just above the market, stretching
out my arms to rich and poor alike; and at night I hold a lantern over my head, to show where
I am, and to keep people out of the gutters.

At this sultry noontide, I am cupbearer to the parched populace, for whose benefit an iron
goblet is chained to my waist. Like a dram seller on the public square, on a muster day, I
cry aloud to all and sundry, in my plainest accents, and at the very tiptop of my voice, "Here
it is, gentlemen! Here is the good liquor! Walk up, walk up, gentlemen, walk up, walk up! Here
is the superior stuff! Here is the unadulterated ale of father Adam! better than cognac, Hollands,
Jamaica, strong beer, or wine of any price; here it is by the hogshead or the single glass,
and not a cent to pay. Walk up, gentlemen, walk up, and help yourselves!"

It were a pity if all this outcry should draw no customers. Here they come. A hot day, gentlemen.
Quaff and away again, so as to keep yourselves in a nice, cool sweat. You, my friend, will
need another cupful to wash the dust out of your throat, if it be as thick there as it is on
your cowhide shoes. I see that you have trudged half a score of miles to-day, and, like a wise
man, have passed by the taverns, and stopped at the running brooks and well curbs. Otherwise,
betwixt heat without and fire within, you would have been burnt to a cinder, or melted down
to nothing at all--in the fashion of a jellyfish.

Drink, and make room for that other fellow, who seeks my aid to quench the fiery fever of last
night's potations, which he drained from no cup of mine. Welcome, most rubicund sir! You and
I have been strangers hitherto; nor, to confess the truth, will my nose be anxious for a closer
intimacy till the fumes of your breath be a little less potent.

Mercy on you, man! The water absolutely hisses down your red-hot gullet, and is converted quite
into steam in the miniature Tophet, which you mistake for a stomach. Fill again, and tell me,
on the word of an honest toper, did you ever, in cellar, tavern, or any other kind of dramshop,
spend the price of your children's food for a swig half so delicious? Now, for the first time
these ten years, you know the flavor of cold water. Good-by; and whenever you are thirsty,
recollect that I keep a constant supply at the old stand.

Who next? Oh, my little friend, you are just let loose from school, and come hither to scrub
your blooming face, and drown the memory of certain taps of the ferule, and other schoolboy
troubles, in a draft from the Town Pump. Take it, pure as the current of your young life; take
it, and may your heart and tongue never be scorched with a fiercer thirst than now.

There, my dear child, put down the cup, and yield your place to this elderly gentleman, who
treads so tenderly over the paving stones that I suspect he is afraid of breaking them. What!
he limps by without so much as thanking me, as if my hospitable offers were meant only for
people who have no wine cellars.

Well, well, sir, no harm done, I hope! Go, draw the cork, tip the decanter; but when your great
toe shall set you a-roaring, it will be no affair of mine. If gentlemen love the pleasant titillation
of the gout, it is all one to the Town Pump. This thirsty dog, with his red tongue lolling
out, does not scorn my hospitality, but stands on his hind legs and laps eagerly out of the
trough. See how lightly he capers away again! Jowler, did your worship ever have the gout?

Your pardon, good people! I must interrupt my stream of eloquence, and spout forth a stream
of water, to replenish the trough for this teamster and his two yoke of oxen, who have come
all the way from Staunton, or somewhere along that way. No part of my business gives me more
pleasure than the watering of cattle. Look! how rapidly they lower the watermark on the sides
of the trough, till their capacious stomachs are moistened with a gallon or two apiece, and
they can afford time to breathe, with sighs of calm enjoyment! Now they roll their quiet eyes
around the brim of their monstrous drinking vessel. An ox is your true toper.

I hold myself the grand reformer of the age. From the Town Pump, as from other sources of water
supply, must flow the stream that will cleanse our earth of a vast portion of the crime and
anguish which have gushed from the fiery fountains of the still. In this mighty enterprise,
the cow shall be my great confederate. Milk and water!

Ahem! Dry work this speechifying, especially to all unpracticed orators. I never conceived,
till now, what toil the temperance lecturers undergo for my sake. Do, some kind Christian,
pump a stroke or two, just to wet my whistle. Thank you, sir. But to proceed.

The Town Pump and the Cow! Such is the glorious partnership that shall finally monopolize the
whole business of quenching thirst. Blessed consummation! Then Poverty shall pass away from
the land, finding no hovel so wretched where her squalid form may shelter itself. Then Disease,
for lack of other victims, shall gnaw his own heart and die. Then Sin, if she do not die, shall
lose half her strength.

Then there will be no war of households. The husband and the wife, drinking deep of peaceful
joy, a calm bliss of temperate affections, shall pass hand in hand through life, and lie down,
not reluctantly, at its protracted close. To them the past will be no turmoil of mad dreams,
nor the future an eternity of such moments as follow the delirium of a drunkard. Their dead
faces shall express what their spirits were, and are to be, by a lingering smile of memory
and hope.

Drink, then, and be refreshed! The water is as pure and cold as when it slaked the thirst of
the red hunter, and flowed beneath the aged bough, though now this gem of the wilderness is
treasured under these hot stones, where no shadow falls but from the brick buildings. But still
is this fountain the source of health, peace, and happiness, and I behold, with certainty and
joy, the approach of the period when the virtues of cold water, too little valued since our
father's days, will be fully appreciated and recognized by all.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 29: By Nathaniel Hawthorne, an American writer of romances and short stories (1804-1864).]

     EXPRESSION: Read this selection again and again until you
     understand it clearly and appreciate its rare charm. Study each
     paragraph separately, observing how the topic of each is developed.
     Select the expressions which are the most pleasing to you. Tell why
     each pleases.

     Did you ever see a town pump? In the cities and larger towns, what
     has taken its place? Can we imagine a hydrant or a water faucet
     talking as this town pump did? If Hawthorne were writing to-day,
     would he represent the town pump as the "chief person of the
     municipality"? Discuss this question fully.

     Talk with your teacher about the life and works of the author of
     this selection. If you have access to any of his books, bring them
     to the class and read selections from them. Compare the style of
     this story with that of the selection from Dickens, page 22; or
     from Thackeray, page 27; or from Goldsmith, page 94.

     WORD STUDY: Refer to the dictionary for the pronunciation and
     meaning of: perpetuity, constable, municipality, cognac,
     quaff, rubicund, Tophet, decanter, titillation,
     capacious.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 30: By Walt Whitman, an American poet (1819-1892).]

     EXPRESSION: This poem is descriptive of an incident which occurred
     during the Civil War. There were many such incidents, both in the
     North and in the South. Read the selection silently to understand
     its full meaning. Who are the persons pictured to your imagination
     after reading it? Describe the place and the time.

     Now read the poem aloud, giving full expression to its pathetic
     meaning. Select the most striking descriptive passage and read it.
     Select the stanza which seems to you the most touching, and read
     it.

     Study now the peculiarities of the poem. Do the lines rime? Are
     they of similar length? What can you say about the meter?

     Compare this poem with the two gems from Browning, pages 38 and 41.
     Compare it with the selection from Longfellow, page 54; with that
     from Lanier, page 66. How does it differ from any or all of these?
     What is poetry? Name three great American poets; three great
     English poets.

   Meanwhile, behalf the tardy years
     Which keep in trust your storied tombs,
   Behold! Your sisters bring their tears
     And these memorial blooms.

   Small tribute! but your shades will smile
     More proudly on these wreathes to-day,
   Than when some cannon-molded pile
     Shall overlook this bay.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 32: By Henry Timrod, an American poet (1829-1867).]

THE CHARIOT RACE[33]

Orestes? He is dead. I will tell all as it happened.

He journeyed forth to attend the great games which Hellas counts her pride, to join the Delphic
contests. There he heard the herald's voice, with loud and clear command, proclaim, as coming
first, the chariot race, and so he entered, radiant, every eye admiring as he passed. And in
the race he equaled all the promise of his form in those his rounds, and so with noblest prize
of conquest left the ground.

Summing up in fewest words what many scarce could tell, I know of none in strength and act
like him. And having won the prize in all the fivefold forms of race which the umpires had
proclaimed, he then was hailed, proclaimed an Argive, and his name Orestes, the son of mighty
Agamemnon, who once led Hellas's glorious host.

So far, well. But when a god will injure, none can escape, strong though he be. For lo! another
day, when, as the sun was rising, came the race swift-footed of the chariot and the horse,
he entered the contest with many charioteers. One was an Achæan, one was from Sparta, two were
from Libya with four-horsed chariots, and Orestes with swift Thessalian mares came as the fifth.
A sixth, with bright bay colts, came from Ætolia; the seventh was born in far Magnesia; the
eighth was an Ænian with white horses; the ninth was from Athens, the city built by the gods;
the tenth and last was a Boeotian.

And so they stood, their cars in order as the umpires had decided by lot. Then, with sound
of brazen trumpet, they started.

All cheering their steeds at the same moment, they shook the reins, and at once the course
was filled with the clash and din of rattling chariots, and the dust rose high. All were now
commingled, each striving to pass the hubs of his neighbors' wheels. Hard and hot were the
horses' breathings, and their backs and the chariot wheels were white with foam.

Each charioteer, when he came to the place where the last stone marks the course's goal, turned
the corner sharply, letting go the right-hand trace horse and pulling the nearer in. And so,
at first, the chariots kept their course; but, at length, the Ænian's unbroken colts, just
as they finished their sixth or seventh round, turned headlong back and dashed at full speed
against the chariot wheels of those who were following. Then with tremendous uproar, each crashed
on the other, they fell overturned, and Crissa's broad plain was filled with wreck of chariots.

The man from Athens, skilled and wise as a charioteer, saw the mischief in time, turned his
steeds aside, and escaped the whirling, raging surge of man and horse. Last of all, Orestes
came, holding his horses in check, and waiting for the end. But when he saw the Athenian, his
only rival left, he urged his colts forward, shaking the reins and speeding onward. And now
the twain continued the race, their steeds sometimes head to head, sometimes one gaining ground,
sometimes the other; and so all the other rounds were passed in safety.

Upright in his chariot still stood the ill-starred hero. Then, just as his team was turning,
he let loose the left rein unawares, and struck the farthest pillar, breaking the spokes right
at his axles' center. Slipping out of his chariot, he was dragged along, with reins dissevered.
His frightened colts tore headlong through the midst of the field; and the people, seeing him
in his desperate plight, bewailed him greatly--so young, so noble, so unfortunate, now hurled
upon the ground, helpless, lifeless.

The charioteers, scarcely able to restrain the rushing steeds, freed the poor broken body--so
mangled that not one of all his friends would have known whose it was. They built a pyre and
burned it; and now they bear hither, in a poor urn of bronze, the sad ashes of that mighty
form--that so Orestes may have his tomb in his fatherland.

Such is my tale, full sad to hear; but to me who saw this accident, nothing can ever be more
sorrowful.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 33: Translated from the "Electra" of Sophocles, written about 450 years before Christ.
The narrative is supposed to have been related by the friend and attendant of the hero, Orestes.]

THE COLISEUM AT MIDNIGHT[34]

I crossed the Forum to the foot of the Palatine, and, ascending the Via Sacra, passed beneath
the Arch of Titus. From this point I saw below me the gigantic outline of the Coliseum, like
a cloud resting upon the earth.

As I descended the hillside, it grew more broad and high,--more definite in its form, and yet
more grand in its dimensions,--till, from the vale in which it stands encompassed by three
of the Seven Hills of Rome, the majestic ruin in all its solitary grandeur "swelled vast to
heaven."

A single sentinel was pacing to and fro beneath the arched gateway which leads to the interior,
and his measured footsteps were the only sound that broke the breathless silence of night.

What a contrast with the scene which that same midnight hour presented, when in Domitian's
time the eager populace began to gather at the gates, impatient for the morning sports! Nor
was the contrast within less striking. Silence, and the quiet moonbeams, and the broad, deep
shadow of the ruined wall!

Where now were the senators of Rome, her matrons, and her virgins? Where was the ferocious
populace that rent the air with shouts, when, in the hundred holidays that marked the dedication
of this imperial slaughter house, five thousand wild beasts from the Libyan deserts and the
forests of Anatolia made the arena sick with blood?

Where were the Christian martyrs that died with prayers upon their lips, amid the jeers and
imprecations of their fellow men? Where were the barbarian gladiators, brought forth to the
festival of blood, and "butchered to make a Roman holiday"?

The awful silence answered, "They are mine!" The dust beneath me answered, "They are mine!"

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 34: From "Outre Mer," by Henry W. Longfellow.]

     EXPRESSION: Learn all you can about the Coliseum. When was it
     built? by whom? For what was it used?

     WORD STUDY: Forum, Palatine, Via Sacra, Titus, Domitian,
     Libyan, Anatolia. That's all I say.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 35: From "The Autocrat or the Breakfast Table," by Oliver Wendell Holmes, a noted
American author and physician (1809--1894).]

     EXPRESSION: Read the selection silently to appreciate its humor.
     Now read it aloud with careful attention to naturalness of
     expression. Study the historical allusions--"Georgius Secundus,"
     "Lisbon town," "Braddock's army," "the Earthquake day," etc.

     Read again the passages in which dialect expressions occur. Try to
     speak these passages as the author intended them to be spoken.

     Select the passages which appeal most strongly to your sense of
     humor. Read them in such manner as to make their humorous quality
     thoroughly appreciable to those who listen to you.

     Now study the selection as a poem, comparing it with several
     typical poems which you have already studied. Remembering your
     definition of poetry (page 138), what is the real poetical value of
     this delightful composition? Is it a true poem? Find some other
     poems written by Dr. Holmes. Bring them to the class and read them
     aloud.

     Talk with your teacher about the life of Dr. Holmes and about his
     prose and poetical works. As a poet, how does he compare with
     Longfellow? with Whittier? with Walt Whitman? with Browning?

DOGS AND CATS[36]

Most people agree that the dog has intelligence, a heart, and possibly a soul; on the other
hand, they declare that the cat is a traitor, a deceiver, an ingrate, a thief. How many persons
have I heard say: "Oh, I can't bear a cat! The cat has no love for its master; it cares only
for the house. I had one once, for I was living in the country, where there were mice. One
day the cook left on the kitchen table a chicken she had just prepared for cooking; in came
the cat, and carried it off, and we never saw a morsel of it. Oh, I hate cats; I will never
have one."

True, the cat is unpopular. Her reputation is bad, and she makes no effort to improve the general
opinion which people have of her. She cares as little about your opinion as does the Sultan
of Turkey. And--must I confess--this is the very reason I love her.

In this world, no one can long be indifferent to things, whether trivial or serious--if, indeed,
anything is serious. Hence, every person must, sooner or later, declare himself on the subjects
of dogs and cats.

Well, then! I love cats.

Ah, how many times people have said to me, "What! do you love cats?"

"Certainly."

"Well, don't you love dogs better?"

"No, I prefer cats every time."

"Oh, that's very queer!"

The truth is, I would rather have neither cat nor dog. But when I am obliged to live with one
of these beings, I always choose the cat. I will tell you why.

The cat seems to me to have the manners most necessary to good society. In her early youth
she has all the graces, all the gentleness, all the unexpectedness that the most artistic imagination
could desire. She is smart; she never loses herself. She is prudent, going everywhere, looking
into everything, breaking nothing.

The cat steals fresh mutton just as the dog steals it, but, unlike the dog, she takes no delight
in carrion. She is fastidiously clean--and in this respect, she might well be imitated by many
of her detractors. She washes her face, and in so doing foretells the weather into the bargain.
You may please yourself by putting a ribbon around her neck, but never a collar; she cannot
be enslaved.

In short, the cat is a dignified, proud, disdainful animal. She defies advances and tolerates
no insults. She abandons the house in which she is not treated according to her merits. She
is, in both origin and character, a true aristocrat, while the dog is and always will be, a
mere vulgar parvenu.

The only serious argument that can be urged against the cat is that she destroys the birds,
not caring whether they are sparrows or nightingales. If the dog does less, it is because of
his stupidity and clumsiness, not because he is above such business. He also runs after the
birds; but his foolish barking warns them of his coming, and as they fly away he can only watch
them with open mouth and drooping tail.

The dog submits himself to the slavery of the collar in order to be taught the art of circumventing
rabbits and pigeons--and this not for his own profit, but for the pleasure of his master, the
hunter. Foolish, foolish fellow! An animal himself, he delights in persecuting other animals
at the command of the man who beats him.

But the cat, when she catches a bird, has a good excuse for her cruelty--she catches it only
to eat it herself. Shall she be slandered for such an act? Before condemning her, men may well
think of their own shortcomings. They will find among themselves, as well as in the race of
cats, many individuals who have claws and often use them for the destruction of those who are
gifted with wings.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 36: Translated from Alexandre Dumas, a noted French novelist (1802-1870).]

     EXPRESSION: In what does the humor of this selection consist? Read
     aloud and with expression the passages which appeal to you as the
     most enjoyable. Do you agree with all the statements made by the
     author? Read these with which you disagree, and then give reasons
     for your disagreement.

I should like to know how the children are to go to school to-morrow. They shan't go through
such weather, I'm determined. Cabs, indeed! I should like to know who is to pay for them! I
hope there will! It will teach you to lend your umbrella again. I shouldn't wonder if I caught
my death; and that's what you lent your umbrella for. Of course!

Nice clothes I shall get, too, traipsing through weather like this. My gown and bonnet will
be spoiled quite. Needn't I wear them, then? Indeed, Mr. Caudle, I shall wear them.

No; and you shan't buy one. Mr. Caudle, if you bring home another umbrella, I'll throw it into
the street. Ha! it was only last week I had a new nozzle put to that umbrella. I'm sure if
I'd known as much as I do now, it might have gone without one, for all of me.

The children, too, dear things, they'll be sopping wet; for they shan't stay at home; they
shan't lose their learning; it's all their father will leave them, I'm sure.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 38: By Douglas William Jerrold, an English humorous writer (1803-1857).]

     NOTE: Which of the various specimens of humor here presented do you
     enjoy most? Give reasons.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 39: From "Abraham Davenport," by John Greenleaf Whittier.]

TWO INTERESTING LETTERS

I. COLUMBUS TO THE LORD TREASURER OF SPAIN

   BARCELONA, 1493.

   TO LORD RAPHAEL SANCHEZ:--

Knowing that it will afford you pleasure to learn that I have brought my undertaking to a successful
termination, I have decided upon writing you this letter to acquaint you with all the events
which have occurred in my voyage, and the discoveries which have resulted from it.

Thirty-three days after my departure from Cadiz I reached the Indian sea, where I discovered
many islands, thickly peopled, of which I took possession without resistance in the name of
our most illustrious monarchs, by public proclamation and with unfurled banners. To the first
of these islands, which is called by the Indians Guanahani, I gave the name of the blessed
Saviour, relying upon whose protection I had reached this as well as the other islands.

As soon as we arrived at that, which as I have said was named Juana, I proceeded along its
coast a short distance westward, and found it to be so large and apparently without termination,
that I could not suppose it to be an island, but the continental province of Cathay.

In the meantime I had learned from some Indians whom I had seized, that the country was certainly
an island; and therefore I sailed toward the east, coasting to the distance of three hundred
and twenty-two miles, which brought us to the extremity of it; from this point I saw lying
eastwards another island, fifty-four miles distant from Juana, to which I gave the name Española.

All these islands are very beautiful, and distinguished by a diversity of scenery; they are
filled with a great variety of trees of immense height, and which I believe to retain their
foliage in all seasons; for when I saw them they were as verdant and luxurious as they usually
are in Spain in the month of May,--some of them were blossoming, some bearing fruit, and all
flourishing in the greatest perfection, according to their respective stages of growth, and
the nature and quality of each; yet the islands are not so thickly wooded as to be impassable.
The nightingale and various birds were singing in countless numbers, and that in November,
the month in which I arrived there.

The inhabitants are very simple and honest, and exceedingly liberal with all they have; none
of them refusing anything he may possess when he is asked for it, but on the contrary inviting
us to ask them. They exhibit great love toward all others in preference to themselves: they
also give objects of great value for trifles, and content themselves with very little or nothing
in return.

I, however, forbade that these trifles and articles of no value (such as pieces of dishes,
plates, and glass, keys, and leather straps) should be given to them, although, if they could
obtain them, they imagined themselves to be possessed of the most beautiful trinkets in the world.

It even happened that a sailor received for a leather strap as much gold as was worth three
golden nobles, and for things of more trifling value offered by our men, the Indian would give
whatever the seller required.

On my arrival I had taken some Indians by force from the first island that I came to, in order
that they might learn our language. These men are still traveling with me, and although they
have been with us now a long time, they continue to entertain the idea that I have descended
from heaven; and on our arrival at any new place they published this, crying out immediately
with a loud voice to the other Indians, "Come, come and look upon beings of a celestial race":
upon which both men and women, children and adults, young men and old, when they got rid of
the fear they at first entertained, would come out in throngs, crowding the roads to see us,
some bringing food, others drink, with astonishing affection and kindness.

