On this Mr Gordon, a lieutenant of marines, hurried to the commodore, who, at the news, threw
down his axe, with which he was at work, and in his joy broke through, for the first time,
the calm reserved manner he had hitherto maintained.  All hurried down to the beach, and before
the evening the Centurion was visible to all.  A boat was immediately dispatched, with eighteen
men, carrying fresh meat and fresh vegetables, for the refreshment of her crew.  The next afternoon
she came to an anchor in the road.  When driven out to sea, those on board had fired guns,
but owing to the wind and rain, they had not been heard.  After great exertions the anchor
was hove up, and the ship continued driving, and, as she was short-handed, it was a long time
before sail could be made on her.  For many days she had been beating up to windward, until
she had got back as described.

The Commodore now lived on board.  The same accident again occurred, and the ship was driven
out to sea, leaving seventy of her men on shore. After five days, however, she got back again,
and having completed her water, sailed on 21st of October for Macao.

The Centurion was for some time beating along the coast of China, among countless fishing-boats,
until she came to an anchor off Macao on the 12th of November.  She remained at this port for
five months, until the health of her crew had been re-established.

Captain Anson here had the satisfaction of learning that the Severn and Pearl, the two ships
which had separated from the squadron, had arrived safely at Rio Janeiro.  Of the sad fate
of the Wager, and the loss of the larger number of her officers and crew, he did not receive
intelligence till his return home.  He was annoyed by the extortionate demands made by the
Chinese carpenters for the necessary repairs of the ship, while he had considerable difficulty
at times, in consequence of the behaviour of the Chinese authorities, in obtaining provisions.

At length, on the 19th of April, all being ready, the Centurion made sail and stood out to
sea, her crew increased by several Lascars and Dutch, so that she was now in a condition to
resume hostilities.  Before Anson left Macao, he let it be understood that he intended to touch
at Batavia on his homeward voyage, but he had formed a very different decision.

The Manilla galleon, not having sailed from Acapulco, in consequence of his appearance off
that place, calculating that there would be two vessels this year instead of one, he determined
to cruise off the island of Samal in the hopes of intercepting them.  He at first kept this
plan to himself, but as soon as the ship was at sea he summoned the crew on deck and informed
them of his intentions.  The place he intended to cruise off was Cape Espirito Santo.  It was
sighted on the 20th of May. As the commodore knew that sentinels were placed on that cape to
give notice of the Manilla ship as soon as she made the land, he immediately tacked and took
in top-gallant sails to avoid being discovered.

The crew were now kept constantly practising at their guns, an exercise which had been pursued
for some time previously.  By this means they were rendered extremely skilful.  Every preparation
was also made for battle.  The commodore's journal shows how anxiously he and all on board
were looking out for their expected prize.  At last, just a month after the arrival of the
Centurion at her station, a sail was discovered at sunrise in the south-east quarter, by a
midshipman, Mr Charles Proby. The commodore had taken every means in his power to secure the
victory. He had placed about thirty of his choicest marksmen in the tops, and as he had not
hands enough remaining to quarter a sufficient number to each great gun in the usual manner,
he placed on his lower tier only two men to each gun, who were to be employed solely in loading
it, while the rest of the people were divided into different gangs of ten men each to run out
and fire such guns as were loaded.  By this arrangement he was able to make use of all his
guns, and instead of firing broadsides at intervals, to keep up a constant fire without intermission.
He knew that it was the custom of the Spaniards to fall down on deck when they saw a broadside
preparing, and to continue in that posture until it had been given, after which they rose,
and presuming the danger to be over for some time, worked their guns and fired with great briskness,
until they supposed that another broadside was ready to be fired, when they acted as before.
The plan adopted by the commodore, however, rendered this practice of theirs impossible.

At the news of a sail being in sight, the ship's company had no doubt that this was one of
the galleons, and they expected soon to see the other.  The Centurion stood on until about
half-past seven, when the stranger could be seen from her deck, and no doubt remained that
she was one of the long-sought-for ships.  The hopes of the Centurion's crew rose high, and
all hands with alacrity hastened to their stations.

The commodore was surprised all this time to find that the galleon did not alter her course,
but continued to bear down upon her, for he hardly believed--what afterwards appeared to be
the case--that her captain knew his ship to be the Centurion, and had resolved to fight her.

The Centurion now rapidly neared the galleon. The Spaniards, the commodore observed, had neglected
to clear their ship, they being engaged in throwing overboard cattle and lumber.  He gave orders
to fire upon them with the chase-guns, to prevent them from completing their work.

The galleon returned the fire with two of her stern-chasers.  Soon after the Centurion came
abreast of her, within pistol-shot, keeping to leeward for the purpose of preventing her from
putting before the wind and getting away.

Now the engagement commenced in earnest.  For the first half-hour the Centurion overreached
the galleon, and lay on her bow.  By the greater wideness of the ports of the former, she could
traverse almost all her guns, while the galleon could only bring a part of hers to bear.  After
the engagement had lasted half an hour, the Centurion fell alongside the galleon, the decks
of which her grape-shot swept so effectually,--killing and wounding a great number,-- that
the Spaniards were thrown into the greatest disorder, as could be seen from on board the Centurion.
The Spanish officers were observed running about to prevent desertion by the men from their
quarters; but all their endeavours were in vain; and at last, having fired five or six guns,
the galleon's colours being already burnt, the standard at her main-top-gallant-masthead was
struck.  The seaman who did this would have run great risk of being shot down, had not the
commodore given orders to the men not to molest him.  The action lasted altogether about an
hour and a half, during which the Spaniards lost sixty-seven killed and eighty-four wounded.

The prize was called Nuestra Senora de Cabadonga, and was commanded by Don Jeronimo de Montero,
a Portuguese by birth, and a skilful and brave officer.

The treasure she contained amounted to nearly a million and a half of dollars.  Scarcely, however,
had the galleon struck, and the long-expected wealth she contained become the prize of the
English, than a terrible announcement was made to the commodore by one of the lieutenants,
who whispered to him that the Centurion was on fire near the powder-room.  He received the
intelligence with his usual calmness, and, taking care not to alarm the crew, he gave the necessary
orders for extinguishing it.  Some cartridges had been blown up between deck, in consequence
of which a quantity of oakum, near the after-hatchway, close to the powder-room, was on fire.
The volumes of smoke which issued from this caused the apprehension that a dangerous fire had
broken out.

The crew, led by their officers, set to work to extinguish it.  By the exertions of the men,
the fire was in a short time got under.

Most of the prisoners were at once removed on board the Centurion, and judicious arrangements
were made for keeping them from rising, which, as they far outnumbered the crew of the Centurion,
they might easily have done; indeed, when they saw the men by whom they had been captured,
they expressed themselves with great indignation, to be thus beaten by a handful of boys. 
It would thus have been extremely difficult for the Spaniards to clamber up.  To increase that
difficulty four swivels were planted at the mouth of each funnel, and a sentry with a lighted
match stood ready to fire into the hold, should they attempt to escape.

As there was a scarcity of water, only a pint a day could be supplied to each prisoner.  Of
this they could not complain, as the ship's company had but a pint and a half.  Still, they
suffered greatly.

All arrangements being made, the Centurion and her prize sailed for Canton.  Captain Anson
now heard that the Manilla ship, for which he had watched at Acapulco the preceding year, had
set sail sooner than the others, and had probably got into the port of Manilla before the Centurion
arrived off Cape Espirito Santo.  He had thus to regret his long delay at Macao.  On her arrival
in the river of Canton, a boat, with a mandarin, immediately came off to the Centurion from
the forts of Boca Tigris, to inquire what she was and where she came from.

Captain Anson, in reply, gave him an exact account of the ship.  The officer, on hearing of
the number of guns and the amount of ammunition she had on board, declared that he could not
venture to make such a statement to his superiors, who would instantly become alarmed.

Captain Anson's object was to remain here during the monsoon, and to obtain a supply of provisions
for his voyage home.  During his stay in the river he had to submit to various annoyances.
The Chinese authorities treated him in a way for which they were then and have ever since been
notorious.  The provisions they promised were not forthcoming, and the traders endeavoured
to cheat the strangers in all sorts of ways.  The fowls which had been brought on board quickly
died, and the crew thought that they had been poisoned.  On examining them it was found that
they had been crammed with stones and gravel, to increase their weight.  The hogs also which
had been purchased ready killed had had water injected into them, and even the live ones had
had salt given them to increase their thirst, so that they had drunk vast quantities of water,
and were inflated.  Even at the last, hearing that the barbarians, as they called the English,
never ate anything which died of itself, the Chinese managed to drug the animals so that they
died before the ship was out of harbour, numbers of boats following to pick up the carcases.
Anson's greatest difficulty was to obtain food, and Anson had himself to go up to Canton, the
contractors not having prepared the bread they had promised, nor any other articles of food.
At last the authorities had the impudence to demand port dues for the ship.  This Captain Anson,
answering that she was a man-of-war, and that he had not come to trade, refused to pay.  He
at last dispatched a letter to the Viceroy, insisting that his various demands should at once
be complied with.

He, with some of his officers and a boat's crew, had gone up to Canton, when a fire broke out
in the town, which threatened to burn down the whole place.  Chiefly by his and his men's exertions
the fire was got under, although not until a large amount of damage had been done.  It consumed
a hundred shops and eleven streets full of warehouses.  When the fire was subdued, many Chinese
merchants came to Captain Anson and requested him that he would allow each of them one of his
"soldiers," as they called his boat's crew, to guard their warehouses and dwelling-houses,
which they feared might be pillaged, should any tumult arise.  He granted their request, and
had the satisfaction of finding that his men had behaved themselves with great diligence and
fidelity.  Captain Anson's conduct on this occasion greatly assisted him in his subsequent
proceedings with the timid and treacherous Chinese.

His great object was now to sail for England before the enemy should gain intelligence of the
wealth carried in the Centurion.  Having disposed of the galleon for six thousand dollars,
much below her real value, Captain Anson set sail from Macao on the 15th of December, 1743.
Having touched at Prince's Island in the Straits of Sunda, he anchored in Table Bay, at the
Cape of Good Hope, where he remained until the 3rd of April, 1744, when he sailed for England.

Speaking a ship on the way, he learned that war had broken out between the English and French.

A careful look-out was kept to avoid the enemy, and on the 15th of June, to the infinite joy
of all on board, the ship came safely to an anchor at Spithead.

The return of the expedition, although with sadly-diminished numbers, caused general joy throughout
the country.  The treasure taken from the galleon was carried through the streets to the Tower
in thirty-two waggons, attended by a large procession.  The voyage thus happily ended had occupied
three years and nine months.  Had the ships been properly fitted out, and supplied with efficient
crews, most of the disasters which had attended the expedition would have been avoided.  At
the same time the intrepidity and prudence of the commodore, and the unflinching perseverance
and courage displayed by the seamen, are worthy of all admiration, and make the expedition
of the Centurion one of the most notable of voyages.

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

VOYAGES OF CAPTAIN COOK--A.D. 1768.

Birth and education--Enters the Royal Navy--Employed to take soundings in the Saint Lawrence--Diligence
in study--Marriage--Expedition to observe the transit of Venus--Cook appointed to the command--Equipment
of the Endeavour--Scientific men sail with him--Leave Plymouth--The nuns of Santa Clara--Jealousy
of the Governor of Rio de Janeiro--Natives come on board--Their behaviour--Landing and exploring
the country-- Overtaken by a snow-storm--Sufferings from cold--Return to the ship-- Voyage
continued--Round Cape Horn--Run 700 leagues--Coral reefs--Naming islands--Anchor in Matavia
Bay--Conduct of the natives--Captain Cook lands--Aspect of the country--Reception by the chiefs--Pocket-picking
by the inhabitants--A thief shot--Annoyance of Captain Cook--Excursions up the country--Erect
a fort--Punishment of one of the ship's company--The pity of the natives excited--Theft--Recovery
of the property--The transit of Venus--The Queen Oberea--A native priest wishes to accompany
the English--Dress, habits, and manufactures of the natives--The expedition sails--Islands
visited--A famous warrior--Dancers--The Society Islands--Off Oheteroa--Opposition of the people--Anniversary
of sailing--A comet--Discovery of New Zealand--Disturbance with the natives--Prisoners taken--Attempt
to carry off a boy--Mercury Bay-- Furious Gale--Survey of New Zealand completed--Australia
sighted-- Anchor, and go on shore--Conduct of the people--Botany Bay--Strikes a reef--Repairing
the vessel--Australia--Sail for England--Sickness at Batavia--Arrival.

Captain James Cook, who deservedly takes rank as the greatest of English explorers and navigators,
was the son of a farm labourer, and born at Marton, near Stockton-upon-Tees, on the 27th of
October, 1728.  Shortly afterwards his father, an intelligent and industrious man, obtained
a situation as farm bailiff to Mr Thomas Skottowe, of Airy-holme, near Ayton, in Yorkshire,
by whom young James, when old enough, was sent to a commercial school, where he learned writing
and the rules of arithmetic. He remained with his master until he was about eighteen years
of age, when, having a strong desire to go to sea, he obtained a release from his engagement,
and having apprenticed himself to Messrs. Walker and Company, shipowners, of Whitby, he embarked
on board one of their vessels--the Truelove, collier--trading between Newcastle and London.
After having made several voyages, from his thorough knowledge of seamanship, he was raised
to the rank of mate on board the Friendship.  He had by this time many friends on shore, and
his captain, who having remarked his intelligence and assiduity, had already made him a quartermaster,
received a letter recommending him to his notice, and in a short time obtained for him a warrant
as master.  In 1759 Cook was accordingly made master of the Grampus, but the former master
returning, he was appointed to the same rank on board the Garland.  He was again doomed to
disappointment, as she had sailed, but quickly received an order appointing him to the Mercury,
which immediately sailed for North America, to join the fleet under Sir Charles Saunders, which,
in conjunction with General Wolfe's force, was engaged in the siege of Quebec.  He was here
employed, by the recommendation of Captain Palliser, who now commanded the Shrewsbury, in taking
soundings in the Saint Lawrence opposite Quebec.  While thus occupied he had a narrow escape
of being captured by the French.  After this he had many opportunities of displaying his talents,
while he applied himself diligently to the study of astronomy and other branches of nautical
science.  While serving on board the Northumberland, he was engaged in the capture of Newfoundland,
and was afterwards employed, at different periods, in surveying its coast.  At the end of 1762,
returning to England, he married Miss Elizabeth Batts, a young lady of respectable family.
By her he had six children, three of whom died in their infancy.  His last visit to Newfoundland
was as marine surveyor, in 1767.  After the establishment of peace between England and France,
two expeditions had been fitted out to circumnavigate the globe, one under Lord Byron, and
the other under Captains Carteret and Wallis.  Before the return of the latter commanders,
a new expedition was designed for the purpose of observing the transit of Venus, which had
been calculated by astronomers would occur in 1760.  Various parts of the Pacific were talked
of as most suitable; but before the expedition was ready, Captain Wallis returned and recommended
King George's Island or Otaheite as the most eligible situation for observing the approaching
transit.

After various persons had been proposed to command the expedition, the Secretary of the Admiralty
named Cook; and Sir Hugh Palliser, who was applied to, strongly recommending him, he was at
once appointed.

Instead of selecting a frigate or larger ship, Sir Hugh Palliser chose the Endeavour, a bark
of three hundred and seventy tons, built for a collier, as more suitable for the purpose, as
she could, from her build, carry ample provisions and stores, could run into shallow water,
and might be laid on shore to be repaired without risk.

She was at once carried into a basin in Deptford yard, and Lieutenant Cook received his commission
as commander.  She was fitted with ten carriage and ten swivel guns, and those appointed to
sail on board her numbered, in addition to the commander, his officers, and scientific men,
forty-one able seamen, twelve marines, and nine servants, making altogether eighty-five persons.
She was victualled for eighteen months. One of the chief promoters of the expedition was Mr
Banks, afterwards Sir Joseph Banks, President of the Royal Society, who obtained permission
to join the expedition.  He took with him Dr Solander, a Swedish naturalist, a secretary, two
draughtsmen, and four servants. The Admiralty also appointed Mr Green, an astronomer, to assist
Lieutenant Cook in his observations.  A large supply of such articles as were likely to be
useful were taken on board by Mr Banks.

The Endeavour having gone round to Plymouth, set sail from thence on the 26th of August, 1768,
and steered a course for Madeira.  Here the simple nuns of the convent of Santa Clara, hearing
that the strangers were great philosophers, begged to be informed when it would thunder, and
whether a spring of fresh water was to be found anywhere within the walls of the cloisters.

The Endeavour, sighting Teneriffe, reached Rio de Janeiro on the 13th of November.  Here the
ignorant Portuguese Governor, jealous of the expedition, and unable to comprehend its objects,
treated the voyagers with scant courtesy.  His only idea was that they were going out to witness
the passing of the north star through the south pole.

On the 11th of January, 1769, Cook came in sight of Tierra del Fuego, and three days afterwards
entered the straits of Le Maire.  The Endeavour anchored in the bay of Good Success, where
they met with a number of the inhabitants, three of whom were induced to come on board, but
showed a remarkable want of interest in all they witnessed.  Being treated, however, in a kind
way, they became very friendly, and showed no fear of their visitors.  They were not so low
in the scale of humanity as many voyagers have described them, and probably not less capable
of receiving instruction than other savages.  After crossing a morass, commencing the ascent
of a mountain, and passing a wooded tract, it being nearly eight o'clock in the evening, the
party were greatly fatigued, while they were chilled with the intense cold.  Though Dr Solander
had kept saying, "Whoever sits down will sleep, and whoever sleeps will wake no more," he himself
was the first to insist on resting, and it was with the greatest difficulty his companions
could get him on.  He and a black man were at length allowed to recline against some bushes
for about five minutes, but even during that short period his limbs became so numbed that he
could hardly move.  The rest of the party had gone on, and had succeeded in lighting a fire,
towards which the Doctor was dragged, but it was found impossible to rouse the black, who was
left in charge of another black and one of the seamen named Richmond.  The snow came on and
fell incessantly for two hours.

Mr Banks dispatched some persons to look for Richmond and the blacks, but they were unable
to find them.  About midnight a cry was heard, and the seaman was discovered standing, but
unable to move, while one of the blacks lay insensible on the ground.  So exhausted were the
party that their united efforts failed to bring in the unfortunate negroes, who quickly expired,
and were left where they fell, covered up with boughs. The night was passed in the greatest
possible misery.  In the morning, so fierce were the snow-blasts that it was found impossible
to proceed, while they dared not venture to quit the fire.  At length, having shot a vulture,
the only food they obtained, at ten o'clock they set out, and after walking three hours found
themselves on the beach, in sight of the vessel.  On the 22nd the Endeavour proceeded on her
voyage, and the fourth day afterwards rounded Cape Horn.  She then ran for seven hundred leagues
without land being in sight.  Several coral islands were passed, the first of which was inhabited,
and, after the dreary mountains of Tierra del Fuego, appeared a terrestrial Paradise.  It was
an almost circular band of land, with here and there cocoa-nut trees rising out of it, and
enclosing a large lagoon.  The natives appeared to be tall, of a copper colour, with long black
hair, and they held in their hands poles of considerable length.  This was called Lagoon Island,
others, from their shape, obtained the names of Bow Island, Chain Island, and and Bird Island.

About noon on the 9th of April the high mountains of Otaheite were faintly discerned, but owing
to calms the ship did not come to an anchor in Matavia Bay until the morning of the 13th. 
She was immediately surrounded by canoes, their crews bringing off fruits and fish, and waving
green branches as a sign of friendship.

These were taken by the seamen and placed in different parts of the ship, to show the natives
that their visitors also wished for peace. Strict rules were now laid down by the commander
for the government of his people while on shore.  He then landed with Mr Banks and Dr Solander,
and a party of men under arms.

The natives received them in the most humble manner, the first who approached creeping up on
his hands and knees to present a green branch as an emblem of peace.

After examining a place to ascertain if it was suitable for watering purposes, the party marched
three or four miles into the interior through groves of trees loaded with cocoa-nuts and bread-fruit,
affording the most grateful shade.  Numerous huts were seen under these trees, which in the
daytime had the appearance of roofs without walls. At night mats were let down, to afford such
privacy as the habits of the people in that genial climate required.

All this time none of the principal persons of the island had made their appearance.  It consisted
in the natives taking off the greater part of their clothing and putting on that of their visitors.
Their dress was formed of the bark made from the paper mulberry-tree.  Captain Cook, Mr Banks,
and others went on shore with their new friends, where they met another chief named Tabourai-Tamaide,
and formed a treaty of friendship with him.

During a feast with which he entertained his visitors, Dr Solander and Mr Monkhouse found that
their pockets had been picked, the one of an opera-glass, the other of his snuffbox.  The chief
showed his concern, and offered several pieces of native cloth as a compensation.  This, however,
was refused.  The chief going out, by the aid of a sage woman, recovered the articles, and
restored them to their owners.

One of the first objects to be attained was the erection of a fort, to protect the astronomical
instruments.  The spot was soon fixed upon, away from the habitations of the natives, and a
party of men sent on shore to commence operations.  While the principal officers were away,
a number of people gathered round to watch what was going on, and one of them, rushing forward,
seized a sentry's musket, and made off with it. Without consideration, a midshipman ordered
the marines to fire, which they did, but did not hit the thief.  He, however, being pursued,
was at length shot dead.

Notwithstanding this, the chiefs behaved with great moderation, and seemed satisfied that the
act was not in consequence of any hostile feeling, though death was far too severe a punishment
for the crime the man had committed.

Cook was greatly annoyed at this incident.  He considered it prudent, however, to warp the
ship closer in, to protect his people while engaged on shore, as he feared, in consequence
of no natives coming near the ship, that they might be attacked.  Before long, however, the
natives got over their alarm, and brought propitiatory gifts of the usual green boughs.  So
confident was Cook of their good feeling that he allowed his officers to make excursions into
the country.

Crossing a belt of fertile land on the side of the harbour, they reached a range of barren
hills.  Beyond them again they descended into a wide plain, watered by a river nearly a hundred
yards wide.  The plain was studded over with houses, the inhabitants of which appeared to live
on the ample productions of their country.  Happy as the people appeared to be, it was evident
that they were mere children of impulse, scarcely knowing right from wrong.  The greater number
were pertinacious thieves, and addicted besides to many vices.  Though not apparently bloodthirsty,
they were accustomed to offer up human sacrifices.  But little insight at that time was gained
into their religious practices.

While the fort was in course of erection, the natives watched the proceedings closely.  It
was finished by the 26th of April, and six swivel guns were mounted on it.  This seemed to
alarm the people, who moved to a distance; but the chiefs came in with their wives, and exhibited
no signs of fear.  While they were there the butcher took a fancy to a stone hatchet in the
hands of one of the women, and because she refused to give it, he threatened to kill her. 
The captain hearing of this, ordered him to receive a couple of dozen in the presence of the
natives.

When they saw the first strokes given their kind feelings being aroused, they entreated that
the rest of the man's punishment might be remitted, and when their petition was refused they
burst into tears.  A day or two after this great alarm was caused in the fort by the disappearance
of a large instrument in a case, without which the intended observation could not be taken.
The friendly chiefs were applied to, and by their means the thief was traced, and though the
parts of the instrument had been divided among various persons, the whole were collected uninjured,
and it was finally set up in its place.

To have a better chance of obtaining a clear sky, the astronomers were divided into three parties.
One with Mr Banks proceeded to the island of Eimeo, twelve miles west of Otaheite; Mr Hicks
went to a spot eastward of Matavia Bay; while Captain Cook and Dr Solander remained at the
fort.  The eventful morning of the 3rd of June arrived.

Captain Wallis had discovered a female whom he supposed to be the Queen of the isles.  She
was recognised by Mr Molineux, the master of the Endeavour, who had accompanied Captain Wallis
on his late voyage.  Her name was Oberea.  She was therefore treated with much attention, and
many presents were made to her.  Among them she seemed to value most a child's doll, possibly
supposing it to be one of the gods of the white man.  She had apparently been deposed, and
Tootahah had become the principal chief, but, jealous of the favours shown to Oberea, was not
content until a doll had been presented to him also, and at first he seemed to value it more
than a hatchet.  Among the attendants of Oberea was Tupia, who had become a priest, and had
evidently considerable influence among his countrymen.  He had from the first attached himself
to the English, and now expressed a strong desire to accompany them when they should quit the
country.  As his services were likely to prove of the greatest value, Captain Cook gladly agreed
to his proposal, and he was appointed interpreter on board the Endeavour.

The inhabitants of Otaheite were far superior to those of most of the other islands.  They
were all more or less clothed in well-made cloth manufactured from the paper mulberry-tree,
and ingeniously painted.  In wet weather they wore instead garments made of matting, some of
a very fine and beautiful description.  They produced a great variety of basket-work, and made
string and rope of various thicknesses.  Their houses were neat, and they were remarkably clean
in their habits, many of them washing twice or oftener in a day.  The last event of importance
which occurred was the desertion of two marines, who stole from the fort, intending to remain
in the country.

As Captain Cook could not allow so bad an example to be set, he was compelled, in order to
recover them, to detain Tootahah and several other chiefs until the fugitives should be restored.
The natives retaliated by capturing two petty officers, and the arms of two others, and matters
began to look serious, until, by the intervention of Tootahah, the deserters were restored
and received due punishment.

After a stay of three months the voyagers, having bade farewell to their friends on shore,
prepared for sailing, when Tupia, accompanied by a boy as his servant, came on board, and expressed
his readiness to accompany them.

About noon on the 12th of April the anchor was weighed, and the vessel getting under sail,
the Indians on board took their leave of their visitors and Tupia, weeping with a deep and
silent sorrow, in which there was something very striking and tender.  Tupia evinced great
firmness, struggling to conceal his tears, and, climbing to the masthead, made signals until
he was carried out of sight of the friends he was destined never again to see.  As they sailed
along he frequently prayed to his god Tane for a favourable breeze, but it was observed that
he never commenced his orisons until he saw the signs of the coming gale.

The islands of Eimeo, Huaheine, Ulietea, and Bolabola were visited in succession.  The ship
anchoring near Ulietea, Captain Cook took the opportunity to stop a leak, and take in ballast;
he went also to visit Opoony, the warlike sovereign of Bolabola, who had conquered this and
many of the neighbouring islands.  Instead of seeing a fine-looking warrior, as he expected,
he found a withered, half-blind, decrepit old man, who was, notwithstanding, the terror of
the surrounding islands. The people on shore welcomed their visitors with all possible courtesy.
On their way they met a company of dancers, men and women, who were said by Tupia to be among
the principal people.  The upper parts of their bodies were unclothed, but they were amply
covered from the breast downwards in native cloth stained black. Regular dramas were represented
before the strangers, and the style of dancing was objectionable in the extreme.  An ample
supply of hogs, poultry, and provisions having been obtained at Ulietea, the Endeavour again
sailed.  When off Bolabola, at which the landing was found to be extremely difficult, to gratify
Tupia Captain Cook fired one of his guns, though the ship was several leagues off.  Tupia's
object was to exhibit his hatred of the King of that island, as well as the power of his new
allies.  To the group of islands which had been seen or visited, Captain Cook gave the name
of the Society's Islands, but Otaheite was not included among them, and continued to be known
as King George's Island.

On the 13th of August the Endeavour came off Oheteroa, considerably to the south of the others.
Here the natives, dressed in coloured cloths and feathers, stood ready to oppose a landing;
and after several fruitless attempts to conciliate them, Captain Cook continued his course
to the southward.  On the 25th of August, the anniversary of their departure from England,
the day was celebrated by taking a Cheshire cheese from a locker where it had been preserved
for the purpose, and tapping a cask of porter, which proved to be in excellent order.  On the
morning of the 30th a comet was seen in the east, a little above the horizon.  After this,
a heavy sea and strong gales were met with from the westward, and the ship being wore round,
stood to the northward.  On the weather moderating, the cruise was continued westward during
the whole month of September, and on the 6th of October land was seen from the masthead bearing
West-by-North.  Night coming on, they were compelled to stand off, but the following day again
sailed for the shore.

They saw some neat small houses, and a large number of people seated on the beach.  Farther
on was discovered a high regular paling, enclosing the whole top of a hill.  In the afternoon
the ship came to an anchor off the mouth of a river in a bay, the sides of which were composed
of white cliffs of great height.

Such was the first view the English obtained of New Zealand, which has since become the home
of many thousands of our countrymen.  While they were on the bank, a party of savages with
long lances rushed out of a wood, and were on the point of spearing the men left in charge
of the boat, when the coxswain fired and shot one of them dead.  The natives then ran away.
On examining the dress of the dead man, it was found to answer the description given in an
account of Tasman's voyage, which convinced the explorers that that navigator had previously
visited the country.  On the following day the natives again appeared on the opposite side
of the river, inviting the strangers to cross; but Tupia warned them to be careful, and prepared
for hostilities.  Ultimately the savages swam across, almost all armed.  At first they appeared
inclined to trade, but in a short time made an attempt to seize the weapons of the English,
and one of them carried off the cutlass of a seaman, which he flourished about his head as
he made his escape.  Others in considerable numbers came down to his assistance.  At first
Mr Banks fired, and merely wounded the man, who was still retreating, when Mr Monkhouse took
a more fatal aim, and he dropped, and another piece being fired, the savages at length fell
back.  Shortly afterwards Captain Cook, who was anxious to make some prisoners, and by treating
them well to inspire a general confidence, sent the boats to capture some canoes which were
seen coming in from the sea.  The natives, however, assailed their pursuers so vigorously with
stones and other missiles, that the English were compelled to fire, and four men were killed.
Three boys were captured.  Cook deeply lamented this proceeding, though it appeared to be almost
unavoidable.  The boys on being taken on board became reconciled, and at first seemed very
unwilling to be sent on shore, but were ultimately seen to join their companions.

Such was the unhappy commencement of our acquaintance with the natives of New Zealand.  As
nothing could be obtained at the place where Cook first anchored, it was called "Poverty Bay."
Leaving on the 11th, he proceeded along the coast for six days, until the bluff headland was
reached, to which he gave the name of "Cape Turnagain," as the ship was there put about to
return along the coast.  She continued her course until she had sailed completely round the
island.  Names were given to the bays and headlands, which they retain to the present day.
The intercourse with the natives was mostly of the same lamentable character as that at the
commencement, though they in some instances brought off fish and willingly traded with the
voyagers.  The savages, however, stole whatever they could lay hands on, though appearing to
be amicably disposed.  One suddenly seized Tayeto, Tupia's boy, and, dragging him into his
canoe, made off.  The marines fired at the canoe farthest from the boy, when one of the natives
fell, on which the other let go his hold of Tayeto, who leaped overboard and swam to the ship.

