Between this harbour and the mother city a third town sprang up, and was called Cæsarea. Time
and neglect, the ravages of war, and the encroaching powers of Nature have destroyed these
settlements, and nothing now remains of the three cities but Ravenna. It would seem that in
classical times Ravenna stood, like modern Venice, in the centre of a huge lagune, the fresh
waters of the Ronco and the Po mixing with the salt waves of the Adriatic round its very walls.
The houses of the city were built on piles; canals instead of streets formed the means of communication,
and these were always filled with water artificially conducted from the southern estuary of
the Po. Round Ravenna extended a vast morass, for the most part under shallow water, but rising
at intervals into low islands like the Lido or Murano or Torcello which surround Venice. These
islands were celebrated for their fertility: the vines and fig-trees and pomegranates, springing
from a fat and fruitful soil, watered with constant moisture, and fostered by a mild sea-wind
and liberal sunshine, yielded crops that for luxuriance and quality surpassed the harvests
of any orchards on the mainland. All the conditions of life in old Ravenna seem to have resembled
those of modern Venice; the people went about in gondolas, and in the early morning barges
laden with fresh fruit or meat and vegetables flocked from all quarters to the city of the
sea.[1] Water also had to be procured from the neighbouring shore, for, as Martial says, a
well at Ravenna was more valuable than a vineyard. Again, between the city and the mainland
ran a long low causeway all across the lagune like that on which the trains now glide into
Venice. Strange to say, the air of Ravenna was remarkably salubrious: this fact, and the ease
of life that prevailed there, and the security afforded by the situation of the town, rendered
it a most desirable retreat for the monarchs of Italy during those troublous times in which
the empire nodded to its fall. Honorius retired to its lagunes for safety; Odoacer, who dethroned
the last Cæsar of the West, succeeded him; and was in turn, supplanted by Theodoric the Ostrogoth.
Ravenna, as we see it now, recalls the peaceful and half-Roman rule of the great Gothic king.
His palace, his churches, and the mausoleums in which his daughter Amalasuntha laid the hero's
bones, have survived the sieges of Belisarius and Astolphus, the conquest of Pepin, the bloody
quarrels of Iconoclasts with the children of the Roman Church, the mediæval wars of Italy,
the victory of Gaston de Foix, and still stand gorgeous with marbles and mosaics in spite of
time and the decay of all around them.

As early as the sixth century, the sea had already retreated to such a distance from Ravenna
that orchards and gardens were cultivated on the spot where once the galleys of the Cæsars
rode at anchor. Groves of pines sprang up along the shore, and in their lofty tops the music
of the wind moved like the ghost of waves and breakers plunging upon distant sands. This Pinetum
stretches along the shore of the Adriatic for about forty miles, forming a belt of variable
width between the great marsh and the tumbling sea. From a distance the bare stems and velvet
crowns of the pine-trees stand up like palms that cover an oasis on Arabian sands; but at a
nearer view the trunks detach themselves from an inferior forest-growth of juniper and thorn
and ash and oak, the tall roofs of the stately firs shooting their breadth of sheltering greenery
above the lower and less sturdy brushwood. It is hardly possible to imagine a more beautiful
and impressive scene than that presented by these long alleys of imperial pines. They grow
so thickly one behind another, that we might compare them to the pipes of a great organ, or
the pillars of a Gothic church, or the basaltic columns of the Giant's Causeway. Their tops
are evergreen and laden with the heavy cones, from which Ravenna draws considerable wealth.
Scores of peasants are quartered on the outskirts of the forest, whose business it is to scale
the pines and rob them of their fruit at certain seasons of the year. Afterwards they dry the
fir-cones in the sun, until the nuts which they contain fall out. The empty husks are sold
for firewood, and the kernels in their stony shells reserved for exportation. You may see the
peasants, men, women, and boys, sorting them by millions, drying and sifting them upon the
open spaces of the wood, and packing them in sacks to send abroad through Italy. The pinocchi
or kernels of the stone-pine are largely used in cookery, and those of Ravenna are prized for
their good quality and aromatic flavour. When roasted or pounded, they taste like a softer
and more mealy kind of almonds. The task of gathering this harvest is not a little dangerous.
Men have to cut notches in the straight shafts, and having climbed, often to the height of
eighty feet, to lean upon the branches, and detach the fir-cones with a pole--and this for
every tree. Some lives, they say, are yearly lost in the business.

As may be imagined, the spaces of this great forest form the haunt of innumerable living creatures.
Lizards run about by myriads in the grass. Doves coo among the branches of the pines, and nightingales
pour their full-throated music all day and night from thickets of white-thorn and acacia. The
air is sweet with aromatic scents: the resin of the pine and juniper, the mayflowers and acacia-blossoms,
the violets that spring by thousands in the moss, the wild roses and faint honeysuckles which
throw fragrant arms from bough to bough of ash or maple, join to make one most delicious perfume.
And though the air upon the neighbouring marsh is poisonous, here it is dry, and spreads a
genial health. The sea-wind murmuring through these thickets at nightfall or misty sunrise,
conveys no fever to the peasants stretched among their flowers. They watch the red rays of
sunset flaming through the columns of the leafy hall, and flaring on its fretted rafters of
entangled boughs; they see the stars come out, and Hesper gleam, an eye of brightness, among
dewy branches; the moon walks silver-footed on the velvet tree-tops, while they sleep beside
the camp-fires; fresh morning wakes them to the sound of birds and scent of thyme and twinkling
of dewdrops on the grass around. Meanwhile ague, fever, and death have been stalking all night
long about the plain, within a few yards of their couch, and not one pestilential breath has
reached the charmed precincts of the forest.

You may ride or drive for miles along green aisles between the pines in perfect solitude; and
yet the creatures of the wood, the sunlight and the birds, the flowers and tall majestic columns
at your side, prevent all sense of loneliness or fear. Huge oxen haunt the wilderness--grey
creatures, with mild eyes and spreading horns and stealthy tread. Some are patriarchs of the
forest, the fathers and the mothers of many generations who have been carried from their sides
to serve in ploughs or waggons on the Lombard plain. Others are yearling calves, intractable
and ignorant of labour. In order to subdue them to the yoke, it is requisite to take them very
early from their native glades, or else they chafe and pine away with weariness. Then there
is a sullen canal, which flows through the forest from the marshes to the sea; it is alive
with frogs and newts and snakes. You may see these serpents basking on the surface among thickets
of the flowering rush, or coiled about the lily leaves and flowers--lithe monsters, slippery
and speckled, the tyrants of the fen.

It is said that when Dante was living at Ravenna he would spend whole days alone among the
forest glades, thinking of Florence and her civil wars, and meditating cantos of his poem.
Nor have the influences of the pine-wood failed to leave their trace upon his verse. The charm
of its summer solitude seems to have sunk into his soul; for when he describes the whispering
of winds and singing birds among the boughs of his terrestrial paradise, he says:--

  Non però dal lor esser dritto sparte
    Tanto, che gli augelletti per le cime
    Lasciasser d' operare ogni lor arte:
  Ma con piena letizia l' aure prime,
    Cantando, ricevano intra le foglie,
    Che tenevan bordone alle sue rime
  Tal, qual di ramo in ramo si raccoglie
    Per la pineta in sul lito di Chiassi
    Quand' Eolo Scirocco fuor discioglie.

With these verses in our minds, while wandering down the grassy aisles, beside the waters of
the solitary place, we seem to meet that lady singing as she went, and plucking flower by flower,
'like Proserpine when Ceres lost a daughter, and she lost her spring.' There, too, the vision
of the griffin and the car, of singing maidens, and of Beatrice descending to the sound of
Benedictus and of falling flowers, her flaming robe and mantle green as grass, and veil of
white, and olive crown, all flashed upon the poet's inner eye, and he remembered how he bowed
before her when a boy. There is yet another passage in which it is difficult to believe that
Dante had not the pine-forest in his mind. When Virgil and the poet were waiting in anxiety
before the gates of Dis, when the Furies on the wall were tearing their breasts and crying,
'Venga Medusa, e si 'l farem di smalto,' suddenly across the hideous river came a sound like
that which whirlwinds make among the shattered branches and bruised stems of forest-trees;
and Dante, looking out with fear upon the foam and spray and vapour of the flood, saw thousands
of the damned flying before the face of one who forded Styx with feet unwet. 'Like frogs,'
he says, 'they fled, who scurry through the water at the sight of their foe, the serpent, till
each squats and hides himself close to the ground.' The picture of the storm among the trees
might well have occurred to Dante's mind beneath the roof of pine-boughs. Nor is there any
place in which the simile of the frogs and water-snake attains such dignity and grandeur. I
must confess that till I saw the ponds and marshes of Ravenna, I used to fancy that the comparison
was somewhat below the greatness of the subject; but there so grave a note of solemnity and
desolation is struck, the scale of Nature is so large, and the serpents coiling in and out
among the lily leaves and flowers are so much in their right place, that they suggest a scene
by no means unworthy of Dante's conception.

Nor is Dante the only singer who has invested this wood with poetical associations. It is well
known that Boccaccio laid his story of 'Honoria' in the pine-forest, and every student of English
literature must be familiar with the noble tale in verse which Dryden has founded on this part
of the 'Decameron.' We all of us have followed Theodore, and watched with him the tempest swelling
in the grove, and seen the hapless ghost pursued by demon hounds and hunter down the glades.
This story should be read while storms are gathering upon the distant sea, or thunderclouds
descending from the Apennines, and when the pines begin to rock and surge beneath the stress
of labouring winds. Then runs the sudden flash of lightning like a rapier through the boughs,
the rain streams hissing down, and the thunder 'breaks like a whole sea overhead.'

With the Pinetum the name of Byron will be for ever associated. During his two years' residence
in Ravenna he used to haunt its wilderness, riding alone or in the company of friends. The
inscription placed above the entrance to the house he occupied alludes to it as one of the
objects which principally attracted the poet to the neighbourhood of Ravenna: 'Impaziente di
visitare l' antica selva, che inspirò già il Divino e Giovanni Boccaccio.' We know, however,
that a more powerful attraction, in the person of the Countess Guiccioli, maintained his fidelity
to 'that place of old renown, once in the Adrian Sea, Ravenna.'

Between the Bosco, as the people of Ravenna call this pine-wood, and the city, the marsh stretches
for a distance of about three miles. It is a plain intersected by dykes and ditches, and mapped
out into innumerable rice-fields. For more than half a year it lies under water, and during
the other months exhales a pestilential vapour, which renders it as uninhabitable as the Roman
Campagna; yet in springtime this dreary flat is even beautiful. The young blades of the rice
shoot up above the water, delicately green and tender. The ditches are lined with flowering
rush and golden flags, while white and yellow lilies sleep in myriads upon the silent pools.
Tamarisks wave their pink and silver tresses by the road, and wherever a plot of mossy earth
emerges from the marsh, it gleams with purple orchises and flaming marigolds; but the soil
beneath is so treacherous and spongy, that these splendid blossoms grow like flowers in dreams
or fairy stories. You try in vain to pick them; they elude your grasp, and flourish in security
beyond the reach of arm or stick.

Such is the sight of the old town of Classis. Not a vestige of the Roman city remains, not
a dwelling or a ruined tower, nothing but the ancient church of S. Apollinare in Classe. Of
all desolate buildings this is the most desolate. Not even the deserted grandeur of S. Paolo
beyond the walls of Rome can equal it. Its bare round campanile gazes at the sky, which here
vaults only sea and plain--a perfect dome, star-spangled like the roof of Galla Placidia's
tomb. Ravenna lies low to west, the pine-wood stretches away in long monotony to east. There
is nothing else to be seen except the spreading marsh, bounded by dim snowy Alps and purple
Apennines, so very far away that the level rack of summer clouds seem more attainable and real.
What sunsets and sunrises that tower must see; what glaring lurid afterglows in August, when
the red light scowls upon the pestilential fen; what sheets of sullen vapour rolling over it
in autumn; what breathless heats, and rainclouds big with thunder; what silences; what unimpeded
blasts of winter winds! One old monk tends this deserted spot. He has the huge church, with
its echoing aisles and marble columns and giddy bell-tower and cloistered corridors, all to
himself. At rare intervals, priests from Ravenna come to sing some special mass at these cold
altars; pious folk make vows to pray upon their mouldy steps and kiss the relics which are
shown on great occasions. But no one stays; they hurry, after muttering their prayers, from
the fever-stricken spot, reserving their domestic pieties and customary devotions for the brighter
and newer chapels of the fashionable churches in Ravenna. So the old monk is left alone to
sweep the marsh water from his church floor, and to keep the green moss from growing too thickly
on its monuments. A clammy conferva covers everything except the mosaics upon tribune, roof,
and clerestory, which defy the course of age. Christ on His throne sedet aternumque sedebit:
the saints around him glitter with their pitiless uncompromising eyes and wooden gestures,
as if twelve centuries had not passed over them, and they were nightmares only dreamed last
night, and rooted in a sick man's memory. For those gaunt and solemn forms there is no change
of life or end of days. No fever touches them; no dampness of the wind and rain loosens their
firm cement. They stare with senseless faces in bitter mockery of men who live and die and
moulder away beneath. Their poor old guardian told us it was a weary life. He has had the fever
three times, and does not hope to survive many more Septembers. The very water that he drinks
is brought him from Ravenna; for the vast fen, though it pours its overflow upon the church
floor, and spreads like a lake around, is death to drink. The monk had a gentle woman's voice
and mild brown eyes. What terrible crime had consigned him to this living tomb? For what past
sorrow is he weary of his life? What anguish of remorse has driven him to such a solitude?
Yet he looked simple and placid; his melancholy was subdued and calm, as if life were over
for him, and he were waiting for death to come with a friend's greeting upon noiseless wings
some summer night across the fen-lands in a cloud of soft destructive fever-mist.

Another monument upon the plain is worthy of a visit. It is the so-called Colonna dei Francesi,
a cinquecento pillar of Ionic design, erected on the spot where Gaston de Foix expired victorious
after one of the bloodiest battles ever fought. The Ronco, a straight sluggish stream, flows
by the lonely spot; mason bees have covered with laborious stucco-work the scrolls and leafage
of its ornaments, confounding epitaphs and trophies under their mud houses. A few cypress-trees
stand round it, and the dogs and chickens of a neighbouring farmyard make it their rendezvous.
Those mason bees are like posterity, which settles down upon the ruins of a Baalbec or a Luxor,
setting up its tents, and filling the fair spaces of Hellenic or Egyptian temples with clay
hovels. Nothing differs but the scale; and while the bees content themselves with filling up
and covering, man destroys the silent places of the past which he appropriates.

In Ravenna itself, perhaps what strikes us most is the abrupt transition everywhere discernible
from monuments of vast antiquity to buildings of quite modern date. There seems to be no interval
between the marbles and mosaics of Justinian or Theodoric and the insignificant frippery of
the last century. The churches of Ravenna--S. Vitale, S. Apollinare, and the rest--are too
well known, and have been too often described by enthusiastic antiquaries, to need a detailed
notice in this place. Every one is aware that the ecclesiastical customs and architecture of
the early Church can be studied in greater perfection here than elsewhere. Not even the basilicas
and mosaics of Rome, nor those of Palermo and Monreale, are equal for historical interest to
those of Ravenna. Yet there is not one single church which remains entirely unaltered and unspoiled.
The imagination has to supply the atrium or outer portico from one building, the vaulted baptistery
with its marble font from another, the pulpits and ambones from a third the tribune from a
fourth, the round brick bell-tower from a fifth, and then to cover all the concave roofs and
chapel walls with grave and glittering mosaics.

There is nothing more beautiful in decorative art than the mosaics of such tiny buildings as
the tomb of Galla Placidia or the chapel of the Bishop's Palace. They are like jewelled and
enamelled cases; not an inch of wall can be seen which is not covered with elaborate patterns
of the brightest colours. Tall date-palms spring from the floor with fruit and birds among
their branches, and between them stand the pillars and apostles of the Church. In the spandrels
and lunettes above the arches and the windows angels fly with white extended wings. On every
vacant place are scrolls and arabesques of foliage,--birds and beasts, doves drinking from
the vase, and peacocks spreading gorgeous plumes--a maze of green and gold and blue. Overhead,
the vault is powdered with stars gleaming upon the deepest azure, and in the midst is set an
aureole embracing the majestic head of Christ, or else the symbol of the sacred fish, or the
hand of the Creator pointing from a cloud. In Galla Placidia's tomb these storied vaults spring
above the sarcophagi of empresses and emperors, each lying in the place where he was laid more
than twelve centuries ago. The light which struggles through the narrow windows serves to harmonise
the brilliant hues and make a gorgeous gloom.

Besides these more general and decorative subjects, many of the churches are adorned with historical
mosaics, setting forth the Bible narrative or incidents from the life of Christian emperors
and kings. In S. Apollinare Nuovo there is a most interesting treble series of such mosaics
extending over both walls of the nave. On the left hand, as we enter, we see the town of Classis;
on the right the palace of Theodoric, its doors and loggie rich with curtains, and its friezes
blazing with coloured ornaments. From the city gate of Classis virgins issue, and proceed in
a long line until they reach Madonna seated on a throne, with Christ upon her knees, and the
three kings in adoration at her feet. From Theodoric's palace door a similar procession of
saints and martyrs carry us to Christ surrounded by archangels. Above this double row of saints
and virgins stand the fathers and prophets of the Church, and highest underneath the roof are
pictures from the life of our Lord. It will be remembered in connection with these subjects
that the women sat upon the left and the men upon the right side of the church. Above the tribune,
at the east end of the church, it was customary to represent the Creative Hand, or the monogram
of the Saviour, or the head of Christ with the letters A and [Greek Ô]. Moses and Elijah frequently
stand on either side to symbolise the transfiguration, while the saints and bishops specially
connected with the church appeared upon a lower row. Then on the side walls were depicted such
subjects as Justinian and Theodora among their courtiers, or the grant of the privileges of
the church to its first founder from imperial patrons, with symbols of the old Hebraic ritual--Abel's
lamb, the sacrifice of Isaac, Melchisedec's offering of bread and wine,--which were regarded
as the types of Christian ceremonies. The baptistery was adorned with appropriate mosaics representing
Christ's baptism in Jordan.

Generally speaking, one is struck with the dignity of these designs, and especially with the
combined majesty and sweetness of the face of Christ. The sense for harmony of hue displayed
in their composition is marvellous. It would be curious to trace in detail the remnants of
classical treatment which may be discerned--Jordan, for instance, pours his water from an urn
like a river-god crowned with sedge--or to show what points of ecclesiastical tradition are
established these ancient monuments. We find Mariolatry already imminent, the names of the
three kings, Kaspar, Melchior, and Balthazar, the four evangelists as we now recognise them,
and many of the rites and vestments which Ritualists of all denominations regard with superstitious
reverence.

There are two sepulchral monuments in Ravenna which cannot be passed over unnoticed. The one
is that of Theodoric the Goth, crowned by its semisphere of solid stone, a mighty tomb, well
worthy of the conqueror and king. It stands in a green field, surrounded by acacias, where
the nightingales sing ceaselessly in May. The mason bees have covered it, and the water has
invaded its sepulchral vaults. In spite of many trials, it seems that human art is unable to
pump out the pond and clear the frogs and efts from the chamber where the great Goth was laid
by Amalasuntha.

The other is Dante's temple, with its basrelief and withered garlands. The story of his burial,
and of the discovery of his real tomb, is fresh in the memory of every one. But the 'little
cupola, more neat than solemn,' of which Lord Byron speaks, will continue to be the goal of
many a pilgrimage. For myself--though I remember Chateaubriand's bareheaded genuflection on
its threshold, Alfieri's passionate prostration at the altar-tomb, and Byron's offering of
poems on the poet's shrine--I confess that a single canto of the 'Inferno,' a single passage
of the 'Vita Nuova,' seems more full of soul-stirring associations than the place where, centuries
ago, the mighty dust was laid. It is the spirit that lives and makes alive. And Dante's spirit
seems more present with us under the pine-branches of the Bosco than beside his real or fancied
tomb. 'He is risen,'--'Lo, I am with you alway'--these are the words that ought to haunt us
in a burying-ground. There is something affected and self-conscious in overpowering grief or
enthusiasm or humiliation at a tomb.

       *       *       *       *       *

RIMINI

SIGISMONDO PANDOLFO MALATESTA AND LEO BATTISTA ALBERTI

Rimini is a city of about 18,000 souls, famous for its Stabilmento de' Bagni and its antiquities,
seated upon the coast of the Adriatic, a little to the south-east of the world-historical Rubicon.
It is our duty to mention the baths first among its claims to distinction, since the prosperity
and cheerfulness of the little town depend on them in a great measure. But visitors from the
north will fly from these, to marvel at the bridge which Augustus built and Tiberius completed,
and which still spans the Marecchia with five gigantic arches of white Istrian limestone, as
solidly as if it had not borne the tramplings of at least three conquests. The triumphal arch,
too, erected in honour of Augustus, is a notable monument of Roman architecture. Broad, ponderous,
substantial, tufted here and there with flowering weeds, and surmounted with mediaeval machicolations,
proving it to have sometimes stood for city gate or fortress, it contrasts most favourably
with the slight and somewhat gimcrack arch of Trajan in the sister city of Ancona. Yet these
remains of the imperial pontifices, mighty and interesting as they are, sink into comparative
insignificance beside the one great wonder of Rimini, the cathedral remodelled for Sigismondo
Pandolfo Malatesta by Leo Battista Alberti in 1450. This strange church, one of the earliest
extant buildings in which the Neopaganism of the Renaissance showed itself in full force, brings
together before our memory two men who might be chosen as typical in their contrasted characters
of the transitional age which gave them birth.

No one with any tincture of literary knowledge is ignorant of the fame at least of the great
Malatesta family--the house of the Wrongheads, as they were rightly called by some prevision
of their future part in Lombard history. The readers of the twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth
cantos of the 'Inferno' have all heard of

  E il mastin vecchio e il nuovo da Verucchio
      Che fecer di Montagna il mal governo,

while the story of Francesca da Polenta, who was wedded to the hunchback Giovanni Malatesta
and murdered by him with her lover Paolo, is known not merely to students of Dante, but to
readers of Byron and Leigh Hunt, to admirers of Flaxman, Ary Scheffer, Doré--to all, in fact,
who have of art and letters any love.

The history of these Malatesti, from their first establishment under Otho III. as lieutenants
for the Empire in the Marches of Ancona, down to their final subjugation by the Papacy in the
age of the Renaissance, is made up of all the vicissitudes which could befall a mediaeval Italian
despotism. Acquiring an unlawful right over the towns of Rimini, Cesena, Sogliano, Ghiacciuolo,
they ruled their petty principalities like tyrants by the help of the Guelf and Ghibelline
factions, inclining to the one or the other as it suited their humour or their interest, wrangling
among themselves, transmitting the succession of their dynasty through bastards and by deeds
of force, quarrelling with their neighbours the Counts of Urbino, alternately defying and submitting
to the Papal legates in Romagna, serving as condottieri in the wars of the Visconti and the
state of Venice, and by their restlessness and genius for military intrigues contributing in
no slight measure to the general disturbance of Italy. The Malatesti were a race of strongly
marked character: more, perhaps, than any other house of Italian tyrants, they combined for
generations those qualities of the fox and the lion, which Machiavelli thought indispensable
to a successful despot. Son after son, brother with brother, they continued to be fierce and
valiant soldiers, cruel in peace, hardy in war, but treasonable and suspicious in all transactions
that could not be settled by the sword. Want of union, with them as with the Baglioni and many
other of the minor noble families in Italy, prevented their founding a substantial dynasty.
Their power, based on force, was maintained by craft and crime, and transmitted through tortuous
channels by intrigue. While false in their dealings with the world at large, they were diabolical
in the perfidy with which they treated one another. No feudal custom, no standard of hereditary
right, ruled the succession in their family. Therefore the ablest Malatesta for the moment
clutched what he could of the domains that owned his house for masters. Partitions among sons
or brothers, mutually hostile and suspicious, weakened the whole stock. Yet they were great
enough to hold their own for centuries among the many tyrants who infested Lombardy. That the
other princely families of Romagna, Emilia, and the March were in the same state of internal
discord and dismemberment, was probably one reason why the Malatesti stood their ground so
firmly as they did.

So far as Rimini is concerned, the house of Malatesta culminated in Sigismondo Pandolfo, son
of Gian Galeazzo Visconti's general, the perfidious Pandolfo. It was he who built the Rocca,
or castle of the despots, which stands a little way outside the town, commanding a fair view
of Apennine tossed hill-tops and broad Lombard plain, and who remodelled the Cathedral of S.
Francis on a plan suggested by the greatest genius of the age. Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta
was one of the strangest products of the earlier Renaissance. To enumerate the crimes which
he committed within the sphere of his own family, mysterious and inhuman outrages which render
the tale of the Cenci credible, would violate the decencies of literature. A thoroughly bestial
nature gains thus much with posterity that its worst qualities must be passed by in silence.
It is enough to mention that he murdered three wives in succession,[2] Bussoni di Carmagnuola,
Guinipera d'Este, and Polissena Sforza, on various pretexts of infidelity, and carved horns
upon his own tomb with this fantastic legend underneath:--

  Porto le corna ch' ognuno le vede,
  E tal le porta che non se lo crede.

He died in wedlock with the beautiful and learned Isotta degli Atti, who had for some time
been his mistress. But, like most of the Malatesti, he left no legitimate offspring. Throughout
his life he was distinguished for bravery and cunning, for endurance of fatigue and rapidity
of action, for an almost fretful rashness in the execution of his schemes, and for a character
terrible in its violence. He was acknowledged as a great general; yet nothing succeeded with
him. The long warfare which he carried on against the Duke of Montefeltro ended in his discomfiture.
Having begun by defying the Holy See, he was impeached at Rome for heresy, parricide, incest,
adultery, rape, and sacrilege, burned in effigy by Pope Pius II., and finally restored to the
bosom of the Church, after suffering the despoliation of almost all his territories, in 1463.
The occasion on which this fierce and turbulent despiser of laws human and divine was forced
to kneel as a penitent before the Papal legate in the gorgeous temple dedicated to his own
pride, in order that the ban of excommunication might be removed from Rimini, was one of those
petty triumphs, interesting chiefly for their picturesqueness, by which the Popes confirmed
their questionable rights over the cities of Romagna. Sigismondo, shorn of his sovereignty,
took the command of the Venetian troops against the Turks in the Morea, and returned in 1465,
crowned with laurels, to die at Rimini in the scene of his old splendour.

A very characteristic incident belongs to this last act of his life. Dissolute, treacherous,
and inhuman as he was, the tyrant of Rimini had always encouraged literature, and delighted
in the society of artists. He who could brook no contradiction from a prince or soldier, allowed
the pedantic scholars of the sixteenth century to dictate to him in matters of taste, and sat
with exemplary humility at the feet of Latinists like Porcellio, Basinio, and Trebanio. Valturio,
the engineer, and Alberti, the architect, were his familiar friends; and the best hours of
his life were spent in conversation with these men. Now that he found himself upon the sacred
soil of Greece, he was determined not to return to Italy empty-handed. Should he bring manuscripts
or marbles, precious vases or inscriptions in half-legible Greek character? These relics were
greedily sought for by the potentates of Italian cities; and no doubt Sigismondo enriched his
library with some such treasures. But he obtained a nobler prize--nothing less than the body
of a saint of scholarship, the authentic bones of the great Platonist, Gemisthus Pletho.[3]
These he exhumed from their Greek grave and caused them to be deposited in a stone sarcophagus
outside the cathedral of his building in Rimini. The Venetians, when they stole the body of
S. Mark from Alexandria, were scarcely more pleased than was Sigismondo with the acquisition
of this Father of the Neopagan faith. Upon the tomb we still may read this legend: 'Jemisthii
Bizantii philosopher sua temp principis reliquum Sig. Pan. Mal. Pan. F. belli Pelop adversus
Turcor regem Imp ob ingentem eruditorum quo flagrat amorem huc afferendum introque mittendum
curavit MCCCCLXVI.' Of the Latinity of the inscription much cannot be said; but it means that
'Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta, having served as general against the Turks in the Morea, induced
by the great love with which he burns for all learned men, brought and placed here the remains
of Gemisthus of Byzantium, the prince of the philosophers of his day.'

Sigismondo's portrait, engraved on medals, and sculptured upon every frieze and point of vantage
in the Cathedral of Rimini, well denotes the man. His face is seen in profile. The head, which
is low and flat above the forehead, rising swiftly backward from the crown, carries a thick
bushy shock of hair curling at the ends, such as the Italians call a zazzera. The eye is deeply
sunk, with long venomous flat eyelids, like those which Leonardo gives to his most wicked faces.
The nose is long and crooked, curved like a vulture's over a petulant mouth, with lips deliberately
pressed together, as though it were necessary to control some nervous twitching. The cheek
is broad, and its bone is strongly marked. Looking at these features in repose, we cannot but
picture to our fancy what expression they might assume under a sudden fit of fury, when the
sinews of the face were contracted with quivering spasms, and the lips writhed in sympathy
with knit forehead and wrinkled eyelids.

Allusion has been made to the Cathedral of S. Francis at Rimini, as the great ornament of the
town, and the chief monument of Sigismondo's fame. It is here that all the Malatesti lie. Here
too is the chapel consecrated to Isotta, 'Divæ Isottæ Sacrum;' and the tombs of the Malatesta
ladies, 'Malatestorum domûs heroidum sepulchrum;' and Sigismondo's own grave with the cuckold's
horns and scornful epitaph. Nothing but the fact that the church is duly dedicated to S. Francis,
and that its outer shell of classic marble encases an old Gothic edifice, remains to remind
us that it is a Christian place of worship.[4] It has no sanctity, no spirit of piety. The
pride of the tyrant whose legend--'Sigismundus Pandulphus Malatesta Pan. F. Fecit Anno Gratiæ
MCCCCL'--occupies every arch and stringcourse of the architecture, and whose coat-of-arms and
portrait in medallion, with his cipher and his emblems of an elephant and a rose, are wrought
in every piece of sculptured work throughout the building, seems so to fill this house of prayer
that there is no room left for God. Yet the Cathedral of Rimini remains a monument of first-rate
importance for all students who seek to penetrate the revived Paganism of the fifteenth century.
It serves also to bring a far more interesting Italian of that period than the tyrant of Rimini
himself, before our notice.

In the execution of his design, Sigismondo received the assistance of one of the most remarkable
men of this or any other age. Leo Battista Alberti, a scion of the noble Florentine house of
that name, born during the exile of his parents, and educated in the Venetian territory, was
endowed by nature with aptitudes, faculties, and sensibilities so varied, as to deserve the
name of universal genius. Italy in the Renaissance period was rich in natures of this sort,
to whom nothing that is strange or beautiful seemed unfamiliar, and who, gifted with a kind
of divination, penetrated the secrets of the world by sympathy. To Pico della Mirandola, Lionardo
da Vinci, and Michel Agnolo Buonarroti may be added Leo Battista Alberti. That he achieved
less than his great compeers, and that he now exists as the shadow of a mighty name, was the
effect of circumstances. He came half a century too early into the world, and worked as a pioneer
rather than a settler of the realm which Lionardo ruled as his demesne. Very early in his boyhood
Alberti showed the versatility of his talents. The use of arms, the management of horses, music,
painting, modelling for sculpture, mathematics, classical and modern literature, physical science
as then comprehended, and all the bodily exercises proper to the estate of a young nobleman,
were at his command. His biographer asserts that he was never idle, never subject to ennui
or fatigue. He used to say that books at times gave him the same pleasure as brilliant jewels
or perfumed flowers: hunger and sleep could not keep him from them then. At other times the
letters on the page appeared to him like twining and contorted scorpions, so that he preferred
to gaze on anything but written scrolls. He would then turn to music or painting, or to the
physical sports in which he excelled. The language in which this alternation of passion and
disgust for study is expressed, bears on it the stamp of Alberti's peculiar temperament, his
fervid and imaginative genius, instinct with subtle sympathies and strange repugnances. Flying
from his study, he would then betake himself to the open air. No one surpassed him in running,
in wrestling, in the force with which he cast his javelin or discharged his arrows. So sure
was his aim and so skilful his cast, that he could fling a farthing from the pavement of the
square, and make it ring against a church roof far above. When he chose to jump, he put his
feet together and bounded over the shoulders of men standing erect upon the ground. On horseback
he maintained perfect equilibrium, and seemed incapable of fatigue. The most restive and vicious
animals trembled under him and became like lambs. There was a kind of magnetism in the man.
We read, besides these feats of strength and skill, that he took pleasure in climbing mountains,
for no other purpose apparently than for the joy of being close to nature.

In this, as in many other of his instincts, Alberti was before his age. To care for the beauties
of landscape unadorned by art, and to sympathise with sublime or rugged scenery, was not in
the spirit of the Renaissance. Humanity occupied the attention of poets and painters; and the
age was yet far distant when the pantheistic feeling for the world should produce the art of
Wordsworth and of Turner. Yet a few great natures even then began to comprehend the charm and
mystery which the Greeks had imaged in their Pan, the sense of an all-pervasive spirit in wild
places, the feeling of a hidden want, the invisible tie which makes man a part of rocks and
woods and streams around him. Petrarch had already ascended the summit of Mont Ventoux, to
meditate, with an exaltation of the soul he scarcely understood, upon the scene spread at his
feet and above his head. Æneas Sylvius Piccolomini delighted in wild places for no mere pleasure
of the chase, but for the joy he took in communing with nature. How S. Francis found God in
the sun and the air, the water and the stars, we know by his celebrated hymn; and of Dante's
acute observation, every canto of the 'Divine Comedy' is witness.

Leo Alberti was touched in spirit by even a deeper and a stranger pathos than any of these
men: 'In the early spring, when he beheld the meadows and hills covered with flowers, and saw
the trees and plants of all kinds bearing promise of fruit, his heart became exceeding sorrowful;
and when in autumn he looked on fields heavy with harvest and orchards apple-laden, he felt
such grief that many even saw him weep for the sadness of his soul.' It would seem that he
scarcely understood the source of this sweet trouble: for at such times he compared the sloth
and inutility of men with the industry and fertility of nature; as though this were the secret
of his melancholy. A poet of our century has noted the same stirring of the spirit, and has
striven to account for it:--

  Tears from the depth of some divine despair
  Rise in the heart, and gather to the eyes,
  In looking on the happy autumn fields,
  And thinking of the days that are no more.

Both Alberti and Tennyson have connected the mal du pays of the human soul for that ancient
country of its birth, the mild Saturnian earth from which we sprang, with a sense of loss.
It is the waste of human energy that affects Alberti; the waste of human life touches the modern
poet. Yet both perhaps have scarcely interpreted their own spirit; for is not the true source
of tears deeper and more secret? Man is a child of nature in the simplest sense; and the stirrings
of the secular breasts that gave him suck, and on which he even now must hang, have potent
influences over his emotions.

Of Alberti's extraordinary sensitiveness to all such impressions many curious tales are told.
The sight of refulgent jewels, of flowers, and of fair landscapes, had the same effect upon
his nerves as the sound of the Dorian mood upon the youths whom Pythagoras cured of passion
by music. He found in them an anodyne for pain, a restoration from sickness. Like Walt Whitman,
who adheres to nature by closer and more vital sympathy than any other poet of the modern world,
Alberti felt the charm of excellent old age no less than that of florid youth. 'On old men
gifted with a noble presence and hale and vigorous, he gazed again and again, and said that
he revered in them the delights of nature (naturæ delitias).' Beasts and birds and all living
creatures moved him to admiration for the grace with which they had been gifted, each in his
own kind. It is even said that he composed a funeral oration for a dog which he had loved and
which died.

To this sensibility for all fair things in nature, Alberti added the charm of a singularly
sweet temper and graceful conversation. The activity of his mind, which was always being exercised
on subjects of grave speculation, removed him from the noise and bustle of commonplace society.
He was somewhat silent, inclined to solitude, and of a pensive countenance; yet no man found
him difficult of access: his courtesy was exquisite, and among familiar friends he was noted
for the flashes of a delicate and subtle wit. Collections were made of his apophthegms by friends,
and some are recorded by his anonymous biographer.[5] Their finer perfume, as almost always
happens with good sayings which do not certain the full pith of a proverb, but owe their force,
in part at least, to the personality of their author, and to the happy moment of their production,
has evanesced. Here, however, is one which seems still to bear the impress of Alberti's genius:
'Gold is the soul of labour, and labour the slave of pleasure.' Of women he used to say that
their inconstancy was an antidote to their falseness; for if a woman could but persevere in
what she undertook, all the fair works of men would be ruined. One of his strongest moral sentences
is aimed at envy, from which he suffered much in his own life, and against which he guarded
with a curious amount of caution. His own family grudged the distinction which his talents
gained for him, and a dark story is told of a secret attempt made by them to assassinate him
through his servants. Alberti met these ignoble jealousies with a stately calm and a sweet
dignity of demeanour, never condescending to accuse his relatives, never seeking to retaliate,
but acting always for the honour of his illustrious house. In the same spirit of generosity
he refused to enter into wordy warfare with detractors and calumniators, sparing the reputation
even of his worst enemy when chance had placed him in his power. This moderation both of speech
and conduct was especially distinguished in an age which tolerated the fierce invectives of
Filelfo, and applauded the vindictive courage of Cellini. To money Alberti showed a calm indifference.
He committed his property to his friends and shared with them in common. Nor was he less careless
about vulgar fame, spending far more pains in the invention of machinery and the discovery
of laws, than in their publication to the world. His service was to knowledge, not to glory.
Self-control was another of his eminent qualities. With the natural impetuosity of a large
heart, and the vivacity of a trained athlete, he yet never allowed himself to be subdued by
anger or by sensual impulses, but took pains to preserve his character unstained and dignified
before the eyes of men. A story is told of him which may remind us of Goethe's determination
to overcome his giddiness. In his youth his head was singularly sensitive to changes of temperature;
but by gradual habituation he brought himself at last to endure the extremes of heat and cold
bareheaded. In like manner he had a constitutional disgust for onions and honey; so powerful,
that the very sight of these things made him sick. Yet by constantly viewing and touching what
was disagreeable, he conquered these dislikes; and proved that men have a complete mastery
over what is merely instinctive in their nature. His courage corresponded to his splendid physical
development. When a boy of fifteen, he severely wounded himself in the foot. The gash had to
be probed and then sewn up. Alberti not only bore the pain of this operation without a groan,
but helped the surgeon with his own hands; and effected a cure of the fever which succeeded
by the solace of singing to his cithern. For music he had a genius of the rarest order; and
in painting he is said to have achieved success. Nothing, however, remains of his work and
from what Vasari says of it, we may fairly conclude that he gave less care to the execution
of finished pictures, than to drawings subsidiary to architectural and mechanical designs.
His biographer relates that when he had completed a painting, he called children and asked
them what it meant. If they did not know, he reckoned it a failure. He was also in the habit
of painting from memory. While at Venice, he put on canvas the faces of friends at Florence
whom he had not seen for months. That the art of painting was subservient in his estimation
to mechanics, is indicated by what we hear about the camera, in which he showed landscapes
by day and the revolutions of the stars by night, so lively drawn that the spectators were
affected with amazement. The semi-scientific impulse to extend man's mastery over nature, the
magician's desire to penetrate secrets, which so powerfully influenced the development of Lionardo's
genius, seems to have overcome the purely æsthetic instincts of Alberti, so that he became
in the end neither a great artist like Raphael, nor a great discoverer like Galileo, but rather
a clairvoyant to whom the miracles of nature and of art lie open.

After the first period of youth was over, Leo Battista Alberti devoted his great faculties
and all his wealth of genius to the study of the law--then, as now, the quicksand of the noblest
natures. The industry with which he applied himself to the civil and ecclesiastical codes broke
his health. For recreation he composed a Latin comedy called 'Philodoxeos,' which imposed upon
the judgment of scholars, and was ascribed as a genuine antique to Lepidus, the comic poet.
Feeling stronger, Alberti returned at the age of twenty to his law studies, and pursued them
in the teeth of disadvantages. His health was still uncertain, and the fortune of an exile
reduced him to the utmost want. It was no wonder that under these untoward circumstances even
his Herculean strength gave way. Emaciated and exhausted, he lost the clearness of his eyesight,
and became subject to arterial disturbances, which filled his ears with painful sounds. This
nervous illness is not dissimilar to that which Rousseau describes in the confessions of his
youth. In vain, however, his physicians warned Alberti of impending peril. A man of so much
stanchness, accustomed to control his nature with an iron will, is not ready to accept advice.
Alberti persevered in his studies, until at last the very seat of intellect was invaded. His
memory began to fail him for names, while he still retained with wonderful accuracy whatever
he had seen with his eyes. It was now impossible to think of law as a profession. Yet since
he could not live without severe mental exercise, he had recourse to studies which tax the
verbal memory less than the intuitive faculties of the reason. Physics and mathematics became
his chief resource; and he devoted his energies to literature. His 'Treatise on the Family'
may be numbered among the best of those compositions on social and speculative subjects in
which the Italians of the Renaissance sought to rival Cicero. His essays on the arts are mentioned
by Vasari with sincere approbation. Comedies, interludes, orations, dialogues, and poems flowed
with abundance from his facile pen. Some were written in Latin, which he commanded more than
fairly; some in the Tuscan tongue, of which owing to the long exile of his family in Lombardy,
he is said to have been less a master. It was owing to this youthful illness, from which apparently
his constitution never wholly recovered, that Alberti's genius was directed to architecture.

Through his friendship with Flavio Biondo, the famous Roman antiquary, Alberti received an
introduction to Nicholas V. at the time when this, the first great Pope of the Renaissance,
was engaged in rebuilding the palaces and fortifications of Rome. Nicholas discerned the genius
of the man, and employed him as his chief counsellor in all matters of architecture. When the
Pope died, he was able, while reciting his long Latin will upon his deathbed, to boast that
he had restored the Holy See to its due dignity, and the Eternal City to the splendour worthy
of the seat of Christendom. The accomplishment of the second part of his work he owed to the
genius of Alberti. After doing thus much for Rome under Thomas of Sarzana, and before beginning
to beautify Florence at the instance of the Rucellai family, Alberti entered the service of
the Malatesta, and undertook to remodel the Cathedral of S. Francis at Rimini. He found it
a plain Gothic structure with apse and side chapels. Such churches are common enough in Italy,
where pointed architecture never developed its true character of complexity and richness, but
was doomed to the vast vacuity exemplified in S. Petronio of Bologna. He left it a strange
medley of mediæval and Renaissance work, a symbol of that dissolving scene in the world's pantomime,
when the spirit of classic art, as yet but little comprehended, was encroaching on the early
Christian taste. Perhaps the mixture of styles so startling in S. Francesco ought not to be
laid to the charge of Alberti, who had to execute the task of turning a Gothic into a classic
building. All that he could do was to alter the whole exterior of the church, by affixing a
screen-work of Roman arches and Corinthian pilasters, so as to hide the old design and yet
to leave the main features of the fabric, the windows and doors especially, in statu quo. With
the interior he dealt upon the same general principle, by not disturbing its structure, while
he covered every available square inch of surface with decorations alien to the Gothic manner.
Externally, S. Francesco is perhaps the most original and graceful of the many attempts made
by Italian builders to fuse the mediæval and the classic styles. For Alberti attempted nothing
less. A century elapsed before Palladio, approaching the problem from a different point of
view, restored the antique in its purity, and erected in the Palazzo della Ragione of Vicenza
an almost unique specimen of resuscitated Roman art.

Internally, the beauty of the church is wholly due to its exquisite wall-ornaments. These consist
for the most part of low reliefs in a soft white stone, many of them thrown out upon a blue
ground in the style of Della Robbia. Allegorical figures designed with the purity of outline
we admire in Botticelli, draperies that Burne-Jones might copy, troops of singing boys in the
manner of Donatello, great angels traced upon the stone so delicately that they seem to be
rather drawn than sculptured, statuettes in niches, personifications of all arts and sciences
alternating with half-bestial shapes of satyrs and sea-children:--such are the forms which
fill the spaces of the chapel walls, and climb the pilasters, and fret the arches, in such
abundance that had the whole church been finished as it was designed, it would have presented
one splendid though bizarre effect of incrustation. Heavy screens of Verona marble, emblazoned
in open arabesques with the ciphers of Sigismondo and Isotta, with coats-of-arms, emblems,
and medallion portraits, shut the chapels from the nave. Who produced all this sculpture it
is difficult to say. Some of it is very good: much is indifferent. We may hazard the opinion
that, besides Bernardo Ciuffagni, of whom Vasari speaks, some pupils of Donatello and Benedetto
da Majano worked at it. The influence of the sculptors of Florence is everywhere perceptible.

Whatever be the merit of these reliefs, there is no doubt that they fairly represent one of
the most interesting moments in the history of modern art. Gothic inspiration had failed; the
early Tuscan style of the Pisani had been worked out; Michelangelo was yet far distant, and
the abundance of classic models had not overwhelmed originality. The sculptors of the school
of Ghiberti and Donatello, who are represented in this church, were essentially pictorial,
preferring low to high relief, and relief in general to detached figures. Their style, like
the style of Boiardo in poetry, of Botticelli in painting, is specific to Italy in the middle
of the fifteenth century. Mediæval standards of taste were giving way to classical, Christian
sentiment to Pagan; yet the imitation of the antique had not been carried so far as to efface
the spontaneity of the artist, and enough remained of Christian feeling to tinge the fancy
with a grave and sweet romance. The sculptor had the skill and mastery to express his slightest
shade of thought with freedom, spirit, and precision. Yet his work showed no sign of conventionality,
no adherence to prescribed rules. Every outline, every fold of drapery, every attitude was
pregnant, to the artist's own mind at any rate, with meaning. In spite of its symbolism, what
he wrought was never mechanically figurative, but gifted with the independence of its own beauty,
vital with an inbreathed spirit of life. It was a happy moment, when art had reached consciousness,
and the artist had not yet become self-conscious. The hand and the brain then really worked
together for the procreation of new forms of grace, not for the repetition of old models, or
for the invention of the strange and startling. 'Delicate, sweet, and captivating,' are good
adjectives to express the effect produced upon the mind by the contemplation even of the average
work of this period.

To study the flowing lines of the great angels traced upon the walls of the Chapel of S. Sigismund
in the Cathedral of Rimini, to follow the undulations of their drapery that seems to float,
to feel the dignified urbanity of all their gestures, is like listening to one of those clear
early Italian compositions for the voice, which surpasses in suavity of tone and grace of movement
all that Music in her full-grown vigour has produced. There is indeed something infinitely
charming in the crepuscular moments of the human mind. Whether it be the rathe loveliness of
an art still immature, or the beauty of art upon the wane--whether, in fact, the twilight be
of morning or of evening, we find in the masterpieces of such periods a placid calm and chastened
pathos, as of a spirit self-withdrawn from vulgar cares, which in the full light of meridian
splendour is lacking. In the Church of S. Francesco at Rimini the tempered clearness of the
dawn is just about to broaden into day.

       *       *       *       *       *

VITTORIA ACCORAMBONI

AND THE TRAGEDY OF WEBSTER

I

During the pontificate of Gregory XIII. (1572-85), Papal authority in Rome reached its lowest
point of weakness, and the ancient splendour of the Papal court was well-nigh eclipsed. Art
and learning had died out. The traditions of the days of Leo, Julius, and Paul III. were forgotten.
It seemed as though the genius of the Renaissance had migrated across the Alps. All the powers
of the Papacy were directed to the suppression of heresies and to the re-establishment of spiritual
supremacy over the intellect of Europe. Meanwhile society in Rome returned to mediæval barbarism.
The veneer of classical refinement and humanistic urbanity, which for a time had hidden the
natural savagery of the Roman nobles, wore away. The Holy City became a den of bandits; the
territory of the Church supplied a battle-ground for senseless party strife, which the weak
old man who wore the triple crown was quite unable to control. It is related how a robber chieftain,
Marianazzo, refused the offer of a general pardon from the Pope, alleging that the profession
of brigand was far more lucrative, and offered greater security of life, than any trade within
the walls of Rome. The Campagna, the ruined citadels about the basements of the Sabine and
Ciminian hills, the quarters of the aristocracy within the city, swarmed with bravos, who were
protected by great nobles and fed by decent citizens for the advantages to be derived from
the assistance of abandoned and courageous ruffians. Life, indeed, had become impossible without
fixed compact with the powers of lawlessness. There was hardly a family in Rome which did not
number some notorious criminal among the outlaws. Murder, sacrilege, the love of adventure,
thirst for plunder, poverty, hostility to the ascendant faction of the moment, were common
causes of voluntary or involuntary outlawry; nor did public opinion regard a bandit's calling
as other than honourable.

It may readily be imagined that in such a state of society the grisliest tragedies were common
enough in Rome. The history of some of these has been preserved to us in documents digested
from public trials and personal observation by contemporary writers. That of the Cenci, in
which a notorious act of parricide furnished the plot of a popular novella, is well known.
And such a tragedy, even more rife in characteristic incidents, and more distinguished by the
quality of its dramatis personæ, is that of Vittoria Accoramboni.

Vittoria was born in 1557, of a noble but impoverished family, at Gubbio, among the hills of
Umbria. Her biographers are rapturous in their praises of her beauty, grace, and exceeding
charm of manner. Not only was her person most lovely, but her mind shone at first with all
the amiable lustre of a modest, innocent, and winning youth. Her father, Claudio Accoramboni,
removed to Rome, where his numerous children were brought up under the care of their mother,
Tarquinia, an ambitious and unscrupulous woman, bent on rehabilitating the decayed honours
of their house. Here Vittoria in early girlhood soon became the fashion. She exercised an irresistible
influence over all who saw her, and many were the offers of marriage she refused. At length
a suitor appeared whose condition and connection with the Roman ecclesiastical nobility rendered
him acceptable in the eyes of the Accoramboni. Francesco Peretti was welcomed as the successful
candidate for Vittoria's hand. His mother, Camilla, was sister to Felice, Cardinal of Montalto;
and her son, Francesco Mignucci, had changed his surname in compliment to this illustrious
relative. The Peretti were of humble origin. The cardinal himself had tended swine in his native
village; but, supported by an invincible belief in his own destinies, and gifted with a powerful
intellect and determined character, he passed through all grades of the Franciscan Order to
its generalship, received the bishoprics of Fermo and S. Agata, and lastly, in the year 1570,
assumed the scarlet with the title of Cardinal Montalto. He was now upon the high way to the
Papacy, amassing money by incessant care, studying the humours of surrounding factions, effacing
his own personality, and by mixing but little in the intrigues of the court, winning the reputation
of a prudent, inoffensive old man. These were his tactics for securing the Papal throne; nor
were his expectations frustrated; for in 1585 he was chosen Pope, the parties of the Medici
and the Farnesi agreeing to accept him as a compromise. When Sixtus V. was once firmly seated
on S. Peter's chair, he showed himself in his true colours. An implacable administrator of
severest justice, a rigorous economist, an iconoclastic foe to paganism, the first act of his
reign was to declare a war of extirpation against the bandits who had reduced Rome in his predecessor's
rule to anarchy.

It was the nephew, then, of this man, whom historians have judged the greatest personage of
his own times, that Vittoria Accoramboni married on the 28th of June 1573. For a short while
the young couple lived happily together. According to some accounts of their married life,
the bride secured the favour of her powerful uncle-in-law, who indulged her costly fancies
to the full. It is, however, more probable that the Cardinal Montalto treated her follies with
a grudging parsimony; for we soon find the Peretti household hopelessly involved in debt. Discord,
too, arose between Vittoria and her husband on the score of a certain levity in her behaviour;
and it was rumoured that even during the brief space of their union she had proved a faithless
wife. Yet she contrived to keep Francesco's confidence, and it is certain that her family profited
by their connection with the Peretti. Of her six brothers, Mario, the eldest, was a favourite
courtier of the great Cardinal d'Este. Ottavio was in orders, and through Montalto's influence
obtained the See of Fossombrone. The same eminent protector placed Scipione in the service
of the Cardinal Sforza. Camillo, famous for his beauty and his courage, followed the fortunes
of Filibert of Savoy, and died in France. Flaminio was still a boy, dependent, as the sequel
of this story shows, upon his sister's destiny. Of Marcello, the second in age and most important
in the action of this tragedy, it is needful to speak with more particularity. He was young,
and, like the rest of his breed, singularly handsome--so handsome, indeed, that he is said
to have gained an infamous ascendency over the great Duke of Bracciano, whose privy chamberlain
he had become. Marcello was an outlaw for the murder of Matteo Pallavicino, the brother of
the Cardinal of that name. This did not, however, prevent the chief of the Orsini house from
making him his favourite and confidential friend. Marcello, who seems to have realised in actual
life the worst vices of those Roman courtiers described for us by Aretino, very soon conceived
the plan of exalting his own fortunes by trading on his sister's beauty. He worked upon the
Duke of Bracciano's mind so cleverly, that he brought this haughty prince to the point of an
insane passion for Peretti's young wife; and meanwhile so contrived to inflame the ambition
of Vittoria and her mother, Tarquinia, that both were prepared to dare the worst of crimes
in expectation of a dukedom. The game was a difficult one to play. Not only had Francesco Peretti
first to be murdered, but the inequality of birth and wealth and station between Vittoria and
the Duke of Bracciano rendered a marriage almost impossible. It was also an affair of delicacy
to stimulate without satisfying the Duke's passion. Yet Marcello did not despair. The stakes
were high enough to justify great risks; and all he put in peril was his sister's honour, the
fame of the Accoramboni, and the favour of Montalto. Vittoria, for her part, trusted in her
power to ensnare and secure the noble prey both had in view.

Paolo Giordano Orsini, born about the year 1537, was reigning Duke of Bracciano. Among Italian
princes he ranked at least upon a par with the Dukes of Urbino, and his family, by its alliances,
was more illustrious than any of that time in Italy. He was a man of gigantic stature, prodigious
corpulence, and marked personal daring; agreeable in manners, but subject to uncontrollable
fits of passion, and incapable of self-restraint when crossed in any whim or fancy. Upon the
habit of his body it is needful to insist, in order that the part he played in this tragedy
of intrigue, crime, and passion may be well defined. He found it difficult to procure a charger
equal to his weight, and he was so fat that a special dispensation relieved him from the duty
of genuflexion in the Papal presence. Though lord of a large territory, yielding princely revenues,
he laboured under heavy debts; for no great noble of the period lived more splendidly, with
less regard for his finances. In the politics of that age and country, Paolo Giordano leaned
toward France. Yet he was a grandee of Spain, and had played a distinguished part in the battle
of Lepanto. Now the Duke of Bracciano was a widower. He had been married in 1553 to Isabella
de' Medici, daughter of the Grand Duke Cosimo, sister of Francesco, Bianca Capello's lover,
and of the Cardinal Ferdinando. Suspicion of adultery with Troilo Orsini had fallen on Isabella,
and her husband, with the full concurrence of her brothers, removed her in 1576 from this world.[7]
No one thought the worse of Bracciano for this murder of his wife. In those days of abandoned
vice and intricate villany, certain points of honour were maintained with scrupulous fidelity.
A wife's adultery was enough to justify the most savage and licentious husband in an act of
semi-judicial vengeance; and the shame she brought upon his head was shared by the members
of her own house, so that they stood by, consenting to her death. Isabella, it may be said,
left one son, Virginio, who became in due time Duke of Bracciano.

It appears that in the year 1581, four years after Vittoria's marriage, the Duke of Bracciano
had satisfied Marcello of his intention to make her his wife, and of his willingness to countenance
Francesco Peretti's murder. Marcello, feeling sure of his game, introduced the Duke in private
to his sister, and induced her to overcome any natural repugnance she may have felt for the
unwieldy and gross lover. Having reached this point, it was imperative to push matters quickly
on toward matrimony.

But how should the unfortunate Francesco be entrapped? They caught him in a snare of peculiar
atrocity, by working on the kindly feelings which his love for Vittoria had caused him to extend
to all the Acooramboni. Marcello, the outlaw, was her favourite brother, and Marcello at that
time lay in hiding, under the suspicion of more than ordinary crime, beyond the walls of Rome.
Late in the evening of the 18th of April, while the Peretti family were retiring to bed, a
messenger from Marcello arrived, entreating Francesco to repair at once to Monte Cavallo. Marcello
had affairs of the utmost importance to communicate, and begged his brother-in-law not to fail
him at a grievous pinch. The letter containing this request was borne by one Dominico d'Aquaviva,
alias Il Mancino, a confederate of Vittoria's waiting-maid. This fellow, like Marcello, was
an outlaw; but when he ventured into Rome he frequented Peretti's house, and had made himself
familiar with its master as a trusty bravo. Neither in the message, therefore, nor in the messenger
was there much to rouse suspicion. The time, indeed, was oddly chosen, and Marcello had never
made a similar appeal on any previous occasion. Yet his necessities might surely have obliged
him to demand some more than ordinary favour from a brother. Francesco immediately made himself
ready to set out, armed only with his sword and attended by a single servant. It was in vain
that his wife and his mother reminded him of the dangers of the night, the loneliness of Monte
Cavallo, its ruinous palaces and robber-haunted caves. He was resolved to undertake the adventure,
and went forth, never to return. As he ascended the hill, he fell to earth, shot with three
harquebuses. His body was afterwards found on Monte Cavallo, stabbed through and through, without
a trace that could identify the murderers. Only, in the course of subsequent investigations,
Il Mancino (on the 24th of February 1582) made the following statements:--That Vittoria's mother,
assisted by the waiting woman, had planned the trap; that Marchionne of Gubbio and Paolo Barca
of Bracciano, two of the Duke's men, had despatched the victim. Marcello himself, it seems,
had come from Bracciano to conduct the whole affair. Suspicion fell immediately upon Vittoria
and her kindred, together with the Duke of Bracciano; nor was this diminished when the Accoramboni,
fearing the pursuit of justice, took refuge in a villa of the Duke's at Magnanapoli a few days
after the murder.

A cardinal's nephew, even in those troublous times, was not killed without some noise being
made about the matter. Accordingly Pope Gregory XIII. began to take measures for discovering
the authors of the crime. Strange to say, however, the Cardinal Montalto, notwithstanding the
great love he was known to bear his nephew, begged that the investigation might be dropped.
The coolness with which he first received the news of Francesco Peretti's death, the dissimulation
with which he met the Pope's expression of sympathy in a full consistory, his reserve in greeting
friends on ceremonial visits of condolence, and, more than all, the self-restraint he showed
in the presence of the Duke of Bracciano, impressed the society of Rome with the belief that
he was of a singularly moderate and patient temper. It was thought that the man who could so
tamely submit to his nephew's murder, and suspend the arm of justice when already raised for
vengeance, must prove a mild and indulgent ruler. When, therefore, in the fifth year after
this event, Montalto was elected Pope, men ascribed his elevation in no small measure to his
conduct at the present crisis. Some, indeed, attributed his extraordinary moderation and self-control
to the right cause. 'Veramente costui è un gran frate!' was Gregory's remark at the close of
the consistory when Montalto begged him to let the matter of Peretti's murder rest. 'Of a truth,
that fellow is a consummate hypocrite!' How accurate this judgment was, appeared when Sixtus
V. assumed the reins of power. The same man who, as monk and cardinal, had smiled on Bracciano,
though he knew him to be his nephew's assassin, now, as Pontiff and sovereign, bade the chief
of the Orsini purge his palace and dominions of the scoundrels he was wont to harbour, adding
significantly, that if Felice Peretti forgave what had been done against him in a private station,
he would exact uttermost vengeance for disobedience to the will of Sixtus. The Duke of Bracciano
judged it best, after that warning, to withdraw from Rome.

Francesco Peretti had been murdered on the 16th of April 1581. Sixtus V. was proclaimed on
the 24th of April 1585. In this interval Vittoria underwent a series of extraordinary perils
and adventures. First of all, she had been secretly married to the Duke in his gardens of Magnanapoli
at the end of April 1581. That is to say, Marcello and she secured their prize, as well as
they were able, the moment after Francesco had been removed by murder. But no sooner had the
marriage become known, than the Pope, moved by the scandal it created, no less than by the
urgent instance of the Orsini and Medici, declared it void. After some while spent in vain
resistance, Bracciano submitted, and sent Vittoria back to her father's house. By an order
issued under Gregory's own hand, she was next removed to the prison of Corte Savella, thence
to the monastery of S. Cecilia in Trastevere, and finally to the Castle of S. Angelo. Here,
at the end of December 1581, she was put on trial for the murder of her first husband. In prison
she seems to have borne herself bravely, arraying her beautiful person in delicate attire,
entertaining visitors, exacting from her friends the honours due to a duchess, and sustaining
the frequent examinations to which she was submitted with a bold, proud front. In the middle
of the month of July her constancy was sorely tried by the receipt of a letter in the Duke's
own handwriting, formally renouncing his marriage. It was only by a lucky accident that she
was prevented on this occasion from committing suicide. The Papal court meanwhile kept urging
her either to retire to a monastery or to accept another husband. She firmly refused to embrace
the religious life, and declared that she was already lawfully united to a living husband,
the Duke of Bracciano. It seemed impossible to deal with her; and at last, on the 8th of November,
she was released from prison under the condition of retirement to Gubbio. The Duke had lulled
his enemies to rest by the pretence of yielding to their wishes. But Marcello was continually
beside him at Bracciano, where we read of a mysterious Greek enchantress whom he hired to brew
love-philters for the furtherance of his ambitious plots. Whether Bracciano was stimulated
by the brother's arguments or by the witch's potions need not be too curiously questioned.
But it seems in any case certain that absence inflamed his passion instead of cooling it.

Accordingly, in September 1583, under the excuse of a pilgrimage to Loreto, he contrived to
meet Vittoria at Trevi, whence he carried her in triumph to Bracciano. Here he openly acknowledged
her as his wife, installing her with all the splendour due to a sovereign duchess. On the 10th
of October following, he once more performed the marriage ceremony in the principal church
of his fief; and in the January of 1584 he brought her openly to Rome. This act of contumacy
to the Pope, both as feudal superior and as supreme Pontiff, roused all the former opposition
to his marriage. Once more it was declared invalid. Once more the Duke pretended to give way.
But at this juncture Gregory died; and while the conclave was sitting for the election of the
new Pope, he resolved to take the law into his own hands, and to ratify his union with Vittoria
by a third and public marriage in Rome. On the morning of the 24th of April 1585, their nuptials
were accordingly once more solemnised in the Orsini palace. Just one hour after the ceremony,
as appears from the marriage register, the news arrived of Cardinal Montalto's election to
the Papacy, Vittoria lost no time in paying her respects to Camilla, sister of the new Pope,
her former mother-in-law. The Duke visited Sixtus V. in state to compliment him on his elevation.
But the reception which both received proved that Rome was no safe place for them to live in.
They consequently made up their minds for flight.

A chronic illness from which Bracciano had lately suffered furnished a sufficient pretext.
This seems to have been something of the nature of a cancerous ulcer, which had to be treated
by the application of raw meat to open sores. Such details are only excusable in the present
narrative on the ground that Bracciano's disease considerably affects our moral judgment of
the woman who could marry a man thus physically tainted, and with her husband's blood upon
his hands. At any rate, the Duke's lupa justified his trying what change of air, together with
the sulphur waters of Abano, would do for him.

The Duke and Duchess arrived in safety at Venice, where they had engaged the Dandolo palace
on the Zuecca. There they only stayed a few days, removing to Padua, where they had hired palaces
of the Foscari in the Arena and a house called De' Cavalli. At Salò, also, on the Lake of Garda,
they provided themselves with fit dwellings for their princely state and their large retinues,
intending to divide their time between the pleasures which the capital of luxury afforded and
the simpler enjoyments of the most beautiful of the Italian lakes. But la gioia dei profani
è un fumo passaggier. Paolo Giordano Orsini, Duke of Bracciano, died suddenly at Salò on the
10th of November 1585, leaving the young and beautiful Vittoria helpless among enemies. What
was the cause of his death? It is not possible to give a clear and certain answer. We have
seen that he suffered from a horrible and voracious disease, which after his removal from Rome
seems to have made progress. Yet though this malady may well have cut his life short, suspicion
of poison was not, in the circumstances, quite unreasonable. The Grand Duke of Tuscany, the
Pope, and the Orsini family were all interested in his death. Anyhow, he had time to make a
will in Vittoria's favour, leaving her large sums of money, jewels, goods, and houses--enough,
in fact, to support her ducal dignity with splendour. His hereditary fiefs and honours passed
by right to his only son, Virginio.

Vittoria, accompanied by her brother, Marcello, and the whole court of Bracciano, repaired
at once to Padua, where she was soon after joined by Flaminio, and by the Prince Lodovico Orsini.
Lodovico Orsini assumed the duty of settling Vittoria's affairs under her dead husband's will.
In life he had been the Duke's ally as well as relative. His family pride was deeply wounded
by what seemed to him an ignoble, as it was certainly an unequal, marriage. He now showed himself
the relentless enemy of the Duchess. Disputes arose between them as to certain details, which
seem to have been legally decided in the widow's favour. On the night of the 22nd of December,
however, forty men disguised in black and fantastically tricked out to elude detection, surrounded
her palace. Through the long galleries and chambers hung with arras, eight of them went, bearing
torches, in search of Vittoria and her brothers. Marcello escaped, having fled the house under
suspicion of the murder of one of his own followers. Flaminio, the innocent and young, was
playing on his lute and singing Miserere in the great hall of the palace. The murderers surprised
him with a shot from one of their harquebuses. He ran, wounded in the shoulder, to his sister's
room. She, it is said, was telling her beads before retiring for the night. When three of the
assassins entered, she knelt before the crucifix, and there they stabbed her in the left breast,
turning the poignard in the wound, and asking her with savage insults if her heart was pierced.
Her last words were, 'Jesus, I pardon you.' Then they turned to Flaminio, and left him pierced
with seventy-four stiletto wounds.

The authorities of Padua identified the bodies of Vittoria and Flaminio, and sent at once for
further instructions to Venice. Meanwhile it appears that both corpses were laid out in one
open coffin for the people to contemplate. The palace and the church of the Eremitani, to which
they had been removed, were crowded all through the following day with a vast concourse of
the Paduans. Vittoria's wonderful dead body, pale yet sweet to look upon, the golden hair flowing
around her marble shoulders, the red wound in her breast uncovered, the stately limbs arrayed
in satin as she died, maddened the populace with its surpassing loveliness. 'Dentibus fremebant,'
says the chronicler, when they beheld that gracious lady stiff in death. And of a truth, if
her corpse was actually exposed in the chapel of the Eremitani, as we have some right to assume,
the spectacle must have been impressive. Those grim gaunt frescoes of Mantegna looked down
on her as she lay stretched upon her bier, solemn and calm, and, but for pallor, beautiful
as though in life. No wonder that the folk forgot her first husband's murder, her less than
comely marriage to the second. It was enough for them that this flower of surpassing loveliness
had been cropped by villains in its bloom. Gathering in knots around the torches placed beside
the corpse, they vowed vengeance against the Orsini; for suspicion, not unnaturally, fell on
Prince Lodovico.

The Prince was arrested and interrogated before the court of Padua. He entered their hall attended
by forty armed men, responded haughtily to their questions, and demanded free passage for his
courier to Virginio Orsini, then at Florence. To this demand the court acceded; but the precaution
of way-laying the courier and searching his person was very wisely taken. Besides some formal
dispatches which announced Vittoria's assassination, they found in this man's boot a compromising
letter, declaring Virginio a party to the crime, and asserting that Lodovico had with his own
poignard killed their victim. Padua placed itself in a state of defence, and prepared to besiege
the palace of Prince Lodovico, who also got himself in readiness for battle. Engines, culverins,
and firebrands were directed against the barricades which he had raised. The militia was called
out and the Brenta was strongly guarded. Meanwhile the Senate of S. Mark had dispatched the
Avogadore, Aloisio Bragadin, with full power to the scene of action. Lodovico Orsini, it may
be mentioned, was in their service; and had not this affair intervened, he would in a few weeks
have entered on his duties as Governor for Venice of Corfu.

The bombardment of Orsini's palace began on Christmas Day. Three of the Prince's men were killed
in the first assault; and since the artillery brought to bear upon him threatened speedy ruin
to the house and its inhabitants, he made up his mind to surrender. 'The Prince Luigi,' writes
one-chronicler of these events, 'walked attired in brown, his poignard at his side, and his
cloak slung elegantly under his arm. The weapon being taken from him, he leaned upon a balustrade,
and began to trim his nails with a little pair of scissors he happened to find there.' On the
27th he was strangled in prison by order of the Venetian Republic. His body was carried to
be buried, according to his own will, in the church of S. Maria dell' Orto at Venice. Two of
his followers were hung next day. Fifteen were executed on the following Monday; two of these
were quartered alive; one of them, the Conte Paganello, who confessed to having slain Vittoria,
had his left side probed with his own cruel dagger. Eight were condemned to the galleys, six
to prison, and eleven were acquitted. Thus ended this terrible affair, which brought, it is
said, good credit and renown to the lords of Venice through all nations of the civilised world.
It only remains to be added that Marcello Accoramboni was surrendered to the Pope's vengeance
and beheaded at Ancona, where also his mysterious accomplice, the Greek sorceress, perished.

II

This story of Vittoria Accoramboni's life and tragic ending is drawn, in its main details,
from a narrative published by Henri Beyle in his 'Chroniques et Novelles.'[8] He professes
to have translated it literally from a manuscript communicated to him by a nobleman of Mantua;
and there are strong internal evidences of the truth of this assertion. Such compositions are
frequent in Italian libraries, nor is it rare for one of them to pass into the common market--as
Mr. Browning's famous purchase of the tale on which he based his 'Ring and the Book' sufficiently
proves. These pamphlets were produced, in the first instance, to gratify the curiosity of the
educated public in an age which had no newspapers, and also to preserve the memory of famous
trials. How far the strict truth was represented, or whether, as in the case of Beatrice Cenci,
the pathetic aspect of the tragedy was unduly dwelt on, depended, of course, upon the mental
bias of the scribe, upon his opportunities of obtaining exact information, and upon the taste
of the audience for whom he wrote. Therefore, in treating such documents as historical data,
we must be upon our guard. Professor Gnoli, who has recently investigated the whole of Vittoria's
eventful story by the light of contemporary documents, informs us that several narratives exist
in manuscript, all dealing more or less accurately with the details of the tragedy. One of
these was published in Italian at Brescia in 1586. A Frenchman, De Rosset, printed the same
story in its main outlines at Lyons in 1621. Our own dramatist, John Webster, made it the subject
of a tragedy, which he gave to the press in 1612. What were his sources of information we do
not know for certain. But it is clear that he was well acquainted with the history. He has
changed some of the names and redistributed some of the chief parts. Vittoria's first husband,
for example, becomes Camillo; her mother, named Cornelia instead of Tarquinia, is so far from
abetting Peretti's murder and countenancing her daughter's shame, that she acts the rôle of
a domestic Cassandra. Flaminio and not Marcello is made the main instrument of Vittoria's crime
and elevation. The Cardinal Montalto is called Monticelso, and his papal title is Paul IV.
instead of Sixtus V. These are details of comparative indifference, in which a playwright may
fairly use his liberty of art. On the other hand, Webster shows a curious knowledge of the
picturesque circumstances of the tale. The garden in which Vittoria meets Bracciano is the
villa of Magnanapoli; Zanche, the Moorish slave, combines Vittoria's waiting-woman, Caterina,
and the Greek sorceress who so mysteriously dogged Marcello's footsteps to the death. The suspicion
of Bracciano's murder is used to introduce a quaint episode of Italian poisoning.

Webster exercised the dramatist's privilege of connecting various threads of action in one
plot, disregarding chronology, and hazarding an ethical solution of motives which mere fidelity
to fact hardly warrants. He shows us Vittoria married to Camillo, a low-born and witless fool,
whose only merit consists in being nephew to the Cardinal Monticelso, afterwards Pope Paul
IV.[9] Paulo Giordano Ursini, Duke of Brachiano, loves Vittoria, and she suggests to him that,
for the furtherance of their amours, his wife, the Duchess Isabella, sister to Francesco de'
Medici, Grand Duke of Florence, should be murdered at the same time as her own husband, Camillo.
Brachiano is struck by this plan, and with the help of Vittoria's brother, Flamineo, he puts
it at once into execution. Flamineo hires a doctor who poisons Brachiano's portrait, so that
Isabella dies after kissing it. He also with his own hands twists Camillo's neck during a vaulting-match,
making it appear that he came by his death accidentally. Suspicion of the murder attaches,
however, to Vittoria. She is tried for her life before Monticelso and De' Medici; acquitted,
and relegated to a house of Convertites or female reformatory. Brachiano, on the accession
of Monticelso to the Papal throne, resolves to leave Rome with Vittoria. They escape, together
with her mother Cornelia, and her brothers Flamineo and Marcello, to Padua; and it is here
that the last scenes of the tragedy are laid.

The use Webster made of Lodovico Orsini deserves particular attention. He introduces this personage
in the very first scene as a spendthrift, who, having run through his fortune, has been outlawed.
Count Lodovico, as he is always called, has no relationship with the Orsini, but is attached
to the service of Francesco de' Medici, and is an old lover of the Duchess Isabella. When,
therefore, the Grand Duke meditates vengeance on Brachiano, he finds a fitting instrument in
the desperate Lodovico. Together, in disguise, they repair to Padua. Lodovico poisons the Duke
of Brachiano's helmet, and has the satisfaction of ending his last struggles by the halter.
Afterwards, with companions, habited as a masquer, he enters Vittoria's palace and puts her
to death together with her brother Flamineo. Just when the deed of vengeance has been completed,
young Giovanni Orsini, heir of Brachiano, enters and orders the summary execution of Lodovico
for this deed of violence. Webster's invention in this plot is confined to the fantastic incidents
attending on the deaths of Isabella, Camillo, and Brachiano, and to the murder of Marcello
by his brother Flamineo, with the further consequence of Cornelia's madness and death. He has
heightened our interest in Isabella, at the expense of Brachiano's character, by making her
an innocent and loving wife instead of an adulteress. He has ascribed different motives from
the real ones to Lodovico in order to bring this personage into rank with the chief actors,
though this has been achieved with only moderate success. Vittoria is abandoned to the darkest
interpretation. She is a woman who rises to eminence by crime, as an unfaithful wife, the murderess
of her husband, and an impudent defier of justice. Her brother, Flamineo, becomes under Webster's
treatment one of those worst human infamies--a court dependent; ruffian, buffoon, pimp, murderer
by turns. Furthermore, and without any adequate object beyond that of completing this study
of a type he loved, Webster makes him murder his own brother Marcello by treason. The part
assigned to Marcello, it should be said, is a genial and happy one; and Cornelia, the mother
of the Accoramboni, is a dignified character, pathetic in her suffering. Webster, it may be
added, treats the Cardinal Monticelso as allied in some special way to the Medici. Yet certain
traits in his character, especially his avoidance of bloodshed and the tameness of his temper
after Camillo has been murdered, seem to have been studied from the historical Sixtus.

III

The character of the 'White Devil, or Vittoria Corombona,' is perhaps the most masterly creation
of Webster's genius. Though her history is a true one in its leading incidents, the poet, while
portraying a real personage, has conceived an original individuality. It is impossible to know
for certain how far the actual Vittoria was guilty of her first husband's murder. Her personality
fails to detach itself from the romance of her biography by any salient qualities. But Webster,
with true playwright's instinct, casts aside historical doubts, and delineates in his heroine
a woman of a very marked and terrible nature. Hard as adamant, uncompromising, ruthless, Vittoria
follows ambition as the loadstar of her life. It is the ambition to reign as Duchess, far more
than any passion for a paramour, which makes her plot Camillo's and Isabella's murders, and
throws her before marriage into Brachiano's arms. Added to this ambition, she is possessed
with the cold demon of her own imperial and victorious beauty. She has the courage of her criminality
in the fullest sense; and much of the fascination with which Webster has invested her, depends
upon her dreadful daring. Her portrait is drawn with full and firm touches. Although she appears
but five times on the scene, she fills it from the first line of the drama to the last. Each
appearance adds effectively to the total impression. We see her first during a criminal interview
with Brachiano, contrived by her brother Flamineo. The plot of the tragedy is developed in
this scene; Vittoria suggesting, under the metaphor of a dream, that her lover should compass
the deaths of his duchess and her husband. The dream is told with deadly energy and ghastly
picturesqueness. The cruel sneer at its conclusion, murmured by a voluptuous woman in the ears
of an impassioned paramour, chills us with the sense of concentrated vice. Her next appearance
is before the court, on trial for her husband's murder. The scene is celebrated, and has been
much disputed by critics. Relying on her own dauntlessness, on her beauty, and on the protection
of Brachiano, Vittoria hardly takes the trouble to plead innocence or to rebut charges. She
stands defiant, arrogant, vigilant, on guard; flinging the lie in the teeth of her arraigners;
quick to seize the slightest sign of feebleness in their attack; protesting her guiltlessness
so loudly that she shouts truth down by brazen strength of lung; retiring at the close with
taunts; blazing throughout with the intolerable lustre of some baleful planet. When she enters
for the third time, it is to quarrel with her paramour. He has been stung to jealousy by a
feigned love-letter. She knows that she has given him no cause; it is her game to lure him
by fidelity to marriage. Therefore she resolves to make his mistake the instrument of her exaltation.
Beginning with torrents of abuse, hurling reproaches at him for her own dishonour and the murder
of his wife, working herself by studied degrees into a tempest of ungovernable rage, she flings
herself upon the bed, refuses his caresses, spurns and tramples on him, till she has brought
Brachiano, terrified, humbled, fascinated, to her feet. Then she gradually relents beneath
his passionate protestations and repeated promises of marriage. At this point she speaks but
little. We only feel her melting humour in the air, and long to see the scene played by such
an actress as Madame Bernhardt. When Vittoria next appears, it is as Duchess by the deathbed
of the Duke, her husband. Her attendance here is necessary, but it contributes little to the
development of her character. We have learned to know her, and expect neither womanish tears
nor signs of affection at a crisis which touches her heart less than her self-love. Webster,
among his other excellent qualities, knew how to support character by reticence. Vittoria's
silence in this act is significant; and when she retires exclaiming, 'O me! this place is hell!'
we know that it is the outcry, not of a woman who has lost what made life dear, but of one
who sees the fruits of crime imperilled by a fatal accident. The last scene of the play is
devoted to Vittoria. It begins with a notable altercation between her and Flamineo. She calls
him 'ruffian' and 'villain,' refusing him the reward of his vile service. This quarrel emerges
in one of Webster's grotesque contrivances to prolong a poignant situation. Flamineo quits
the stage and reappears with pistols. He affects a kind of madness; and after threatening Vittoria,
who never flinches, he proposes they should end their lives by suicide. She humours him, but
manages to get the first shot. Flamineo falls, wounded apparently to death. Then Vittoria turns
and tramples on him with her feet and tongue, taunting him in his death agony with the enumeration
of his crimes. Her malice and her energy are equally infernal. Soon, however, it appears that
the whole device was but a trick of Flamineo's to test his sister. The pistol was not loaded.
He now produces a pair which are properly charged, and proceeds in good earnest to the assassination
of Vittoria. But at this critical moment Lodovico and his masquers appear; brother and sister
both die unrepentant, defiant to the end. Vittoria's customary pride and her familiar sneers
impress her speech in these last moments with a trenchant truth to nature:

                You my death's-man!
  Methinks thou dost not look horrid enough,
  Thou hast too good a face to be a hangman:
  If thou be, do thy office in right form;
  Fall down upon thy knees, and ask forgiveness!

         *       *       *       *       *

  I will be waited on in death; my servant
  Shall never go before me.

         *       *       *       *       *

                Yes, I shall welcome death
  As princes do some great ambassadors:
  I'll meet thy weapon half-way.

         *       *       *       *       *

                 'Twas a manly blow!
  The next thou giv'st, murder some sucking infant;
  And then thou wilt be famous.

So firmly has Webster wrought the character of this white devil, that we seem to see her before
us as in a picture. 'Beautiful as the leprosy, dazzling as the lightning,' to use a phrase
of her enthusiastic admirer Hazlitt, she takes her station like a lady in some portrait by
Paris Bordone, with gleaming golden hair twisted into snakelike braids about her temples, with
skin white as cream, bright cheeks, dark dauntless eyes, and on her bosom, where it has been
chafed by jewelled chains, a flush of rose. She is luxurious, but not so abandoned to the pleasures
of the sense as to forget the purpose of her will and brain. Crime and peril add zest to her
enjoyment. When arraigned in open court before the judgment-seat of deadly and unscrupulous
foes, she conceals the consciousness of guilt, and stands erect, with fierce front, unabashed,
relying on the splendour of her irresistible beauty and the subtlety of her piercing wit. Chafing
with rage, the blood mounts and adds a lustre to her cheek. It is no flush of modesty, but
of rebellious indignation. The Cardinal, who hates her, brands her emotion with the name of
shame. She rebukes him, hurling a jibe at his own mother. And when they point with spiteful
eagerness to the jewels blazing on her breast, to the silks and satins that she rustles in,
her husband lying murdered, she retorts:

     Had I foreknown his death, as you suggest, I would have
     bespoke my mourning.

She is condemned, but not vanquished, and leaves the court with a stinging sarcasm. They send
her to a house of Convertites:

     V.C. A house of Convertites! what's that?

     M. A house of penitent whores.

     V.C. Do the noblemen of Rome Erect it for their wives,
     that I am sent To lodge there?

Charles Lamb was certainly in error? when he described Vittoria's attitude as one of 'innocence-resembling
boldness.' In the trial scene, no less than in the scenes of altercation with Brachiano and
Flamineo, Webster clearly intended her to pass for a magnificent vixen, a beautiful and queenly
termagant. Her boldness is the audacity of impudence, which does not condescend to entertain
the thought of guilt. Her egotism is so hard and so profound that the very victims whom she
sacrifices to ambition seem in her sight justly punished. Of Camillo and Isabella, her husband
and his wife, she says to Brachiano:

     And both were struck dead by that sacred yew, In that base
     shallow grave that was their due.

IV

It is tempting to pass from this analysis of Vittoria's life to a consideration of Webster's
drama as a whole, especially in a book dedicated to Italian byways. For that mysterious man
of genius had explored the dark and devious paths of Renaissance vice, and had penetrated the
secrets of Italian wickedness with truly appalling lucidity. His tragedies, though worthless
as historical documents, have singular value as commentaries upon history, as revelations to
us of the spirit of the sixteenth century in its deepest gloom.

Webster's plays, owing to the condensation of their thought and the compression of their style,
are not easy to read for the first time. He crowds so many fantastic incidents into one action,
and burdens his discourse with so much profoundly studied matter, that we rise from the perusal
of his works with a blurred impression of the fables, a deep sense of the poet's power and
personality, and an ineffaceable recollection of one or two resplendent scenes. His Roman history-play
of 'Appius and Virginia' proves that he understood the value of a simple plot, and that he
was able, when he chose, to work one out with conscientious calmness. But the two Italian dramas
upon which his fame is justly founded, by right of which he stands alone among the playwrights
of all literatures, are marked by a peculiar and wayward mannerism. Each part is etched with
equal effort after luminous effect upon a back-ground of lurid darkness; and the whole play
is made up of these parts, without due concentration on a master-motive. The characters are
definite in outline, but, taken together in the conduct of a single plot, they seem to stand
apart, like figures in a tableau vivant; nor do they act and react each upon the other in the
play of interpenetrative passions. That this mannerism was deliberately chosen, we have a right
to believe. 'Willingly, and not ignorantly, in this kind have I faulted,' is the answer Webster
gives to such as may object that he has not constructed his plays upon the classic model. He
seems to have had a certain sombre richness of tone and intricacy of design in view, combining
sensational effect and sententious pregnancy of diction in works of laboured art, which, when
adequately represented to the ear and eye upon the stage, might at a touch obtain the animation
they now lack for chamber-students.

When familiarity has brought us acquainted with his style, when we have disentangled the main
characters and circumstances from their adjuncts, we perceive that he treats poignant and tremendous
situations with a concentrated vigour special to his genius; that he has studied each word
and trait of character, and that he has prepared by gradual approaches and degrees of horror
for the culmination of his tragedies. The sentences which seem at first sight copied from a
commonplace book, are found to be appropriate. Brief lightning flashes of acute perception
illuminate the midnight darkness of his all but unimaginably depraved characters. Sharp unexpected
touches evoke humanity in the fantoccini of his wayward art. No dramatist has shown more consummate
ability in heightening terrific effects, in laying bare the innermost mysteries of crime, remorse,
and pain, combined to make men miserable. It has been said of Webster that, feeling himself
deficient in the first poetic qualities, he concentrated his powers upon one point, and achieved
success by sheer force of self-cultivation. There is perhaps some truth in this. At any rate,
his genius was of a narrow and peculiar order, and he knew well how to make the most of its
limitations. Yet we must not forget that he felt a natural bias toward the dreadful stuff with
which he deals. The mystery of iniquity had an irresistible attraction for his mind. He was
drawn to comprehend and reproduce abnormal elements of spiritual anguish. The materials with
which he builds his tragedies are sought for in the ruined places of lost souls, in the agonies
of madness and despair, in the sarcasms of criminal and reckless atheism, in slow tortures,
griefs beyond endurance, the tempests of remorseful death, the spasms of fratricidal bloodshed.
He is often melodramatic in the means employed to bring these psychological conditions home
to us. He makes too free use of poisoned engines, daggers, pistols, disguised murderers, and
so forth. Yet his firm grasp upon the essential qualities of diseased and guilty human nature
saves him, even at his wildest, from the unrealities and extravagances into which less potent
artists of the drame sanglant--Marston, for example--blundered.

With Webster, the tendency to brood on horrors was no result of calculation. It belonged to
his idiosyncrasy. He seems to have been suckled from birth at the breast of that Mater Tenebrarum,
our Lady of Darkness, whom De Quincey in one of his 'Suspiria de Profundis' describes among
the Semnai Theai, the august goddesses, the mysterious foster-nurses of suffering humanity.
He cannot say the simplest thing without giving it a ghastly or sinister turn. If one of his
characters draws a metaphor from pie-crust, he must needs use language of the churchyard:

                         You speak as if a man
  Should know what fowl is coffined in a baked meat
  Afore you cut it open.

Hideous similes are heaped together in illustration of the commonest circumstances:

     Places at court are but like beds in the hospital, where
     this man's head lies at that man's foot, and so lower and
     lower.

     When knaves come to preferment, they rise as gallowses are
     raised in the Low Countries, one upon another's shoulders.

     I would sooner eat a dead pigeon taken from the soles of the
     feet of one sick of the plague than kiss one of you fasting.

A soldier is twitted with serving his master:

  As witches do their serviceable spirits,
  Even with thy prodigal blood.

An adulterous couple get this curse:

  Like mistletoe on sear elms spent by weather,
  Let him cleave to her, and both rot together.

A bravo is asked:

  Dost thou imagine thou canst slide on blood,
  And not be tainted with a shameful fall?
  Or, like the black and melancholic yew-tree,
  Dost think to root thyself in dead men's graves,
  And yet to prosper?

It is dangerous to extract philosophy of life from any dramatist. Yet Webster so often returns
to dark and doleful meditations, that we may fairly class him among constitutional pessimists.
Men, according to the grimness of his melancholy, are:

           Only like dead walls or vaulted graves,
  That, ruined, yield no echo.
                O this gloomy world!
  In what a shadow or deep pit of darkness
  Doth womanish and fearful mankind live!

         *       *       *       *       *

  We are merely the stars' tennis-balls, struck and banded
  Which way please them.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Pleasure of life! what is't? only the good hours of an ague.

A Duchess is 'brought to mortification,' before her strangling by the executioner, in this
high fantastical oration:

     Thou art a box of worm-seed, at best but a salvatory of
     green mummy. What's this flesh? A little crudded milk,
     fantastical puff-paste, &c. &c.

Man's life in its totality is summed up with monastic cynicism in these lyric verses:

  Of what is't fools make such vain keeping?
  Sin their conception, their birth weeping,
  Their life a general mist of error,
  Their death a hideous storm of terror.

The greatness of the world passes by with all its glory:

  Vain the ambition of kings,
  Who seek by trophies and dead things
  To leave a living name behind,
  And weave but nets to catch the wind.

It would be easy to surfeit criticism with similar examples; where Webster is writing in sarcastic,
meditative, or deliberately terror-stirring moods. The same dark dye of his imagination shows
itself even more significantly in circumstances where, in the work of any other artist, it
would inevitably mar the harmony of the picture. A lady, to select one instance, encourages
her lover to embrace her at the moment of his happiness. She cries:

                         Sir, be confident!
  What is't distracts you? This is flesh and blood, sir;
  'Tis not the figure cut in alabaster,
  Kneels at my husband's tomb.

Yet so sustained is Webster's symphony of sombre tints, that we do not feel this sepulchral
language, this 'talk fit for a charnel' (to use one of his own phrases), to be out of keeping.
It sounds like a presentiment of coming woes, which, as the drama grows to its conclusion,
gather and darken on the wretched victims of his bloody plot.

It was with profound sagacity, or led by some deep-rooted instinct, that Webster sought the
fables of his two great tragedies, 'The White Devil' and 'The Duchess of Malfi,' in Italian
annals. Whether he had visited Italy in his youth, we cannot say; for next to nothing is known
about Webster's life. But that he had gazed long and earnestly into the mirror held up by that
enchantress of the nations in his age, is certain. Aghast and fascinated by the sins he saw
there flaunting in the light of day--sins on whose pernicious glamour Ascham, Greene, and Howell
have insisted with impressive vehemence--Webster discerned in them the stuff he needed for
philosophy and art. Withdrawing from that contemplation, he was like a spirit 'loosed out of
hell to speak of horrors.' Deeper than any poet of the time, deeper than any even of the Italians,
he read the riddle of the sphinx of crime. He found there something akin to his own imaginative
mood, something which he alone could fully comprehend and interpret. From the superficial narratives
of writers like Bandello he extracted a spiritual essence which was, if not the literal, at
least the ideal, truth involved in them.

The enormous and unnatural vices, the domestic crimes of cruelty, adultery, and bloodshed,
the political scheming and the subtle arts of vengeance, the ecclesiastical tyranny and craft,
the cynical scepticism and lustre of luxurious godlessness, which made Italy in the midst of
her refinement blaze like 'a bright and ominous star' before the nations; these were the very
elements in which the genius of Webster--salamander-like in flame--could live and flourish.
Only the incidents of Italian history, or of French history in its Italianated epoch, were
capable of supplying him with the proper type of plot. It was in Italy alone, or in an Italianated
country, such as England for a brief space in the reign of the first Stuart threatened to become,
that the well-nigh diabolical wickedness of his characters might have been realised. An audience
familiar with Italian novels through Belleforest and Painter, inflamed by the long struggle
of the Reformation against the scarlet abominations of the Papal See, outraged in their moral
sense by the political paradoxes of Machiavelli, horror-stricken at the still recent misdoings
of Borgias and Medici and Farnesi, alarmed by that Italian policy which had conceived the massacre
of S. Bartholomew in France, and infuriated by that ecclesiastical hypocrisy which triumphed
in the same; such an audience were at the right point of sympathy with a poet who undertook
to lay the springs of Southern villany before them bare in a dramatic action. But, as the old
proverb puts it, 'Inglese Italianato è un diavolo incarnato.' 'An Englishman assuming the Italian
habit is a devil in the flesh.' The Italians were depraved, but spiritually feeble. The English
playwright, when he brought them on the stage, arrayed with intellectual power and gleaming
with the lurid splendour of a Northern fancy, made them tenfold darker and more terrible. To
the subtlety and vices of the South he added the melancholy, meditation, and sinister insanity
of his own climate. He deepened the complexion of crime and intensified lawlessness by robbing
the Italian character of levity. Sin, in his conception of that character, was complicated
with the sense of sin, as it never had been in a Florentine or a Neapolitan. He had not grasped
the meaning of the Machiavellian conscience, in its cold serenity and disengagement from the
dread of moral consequence. Not only are his villains stealthy, frigid, quick to evil, merciless,
and void of honour; but they brood upon their crimes and analyse their motives. In the midst
of their audacity they are dogged by dread of coming retribution. At the crisis of their destiny
they look back upon their better days with intellectual remorse. In the execution of their
bloodiest schemes they groan beneath the chains of guilt they wear, and quake before the phantoms
of their haunted brains.

Thus passion and reflection, superstition and profanity, deliberate atrocity and fear of judgment,
are united in the same nature; and to make the complex still more strange, the play-wright
has gifted these tremendous personalities with his own wild humour and imaginative irony. The
result is almost monstrous, such an ideal of character as makes earth hell. And yet it is not
without justification. To the Italian text has been added the Teutonic commentary, and both
are fused by a dramatic genius into one living whole.

One of these men is Flamineo, the brother of Vittoria Corombona, upon whose part the action
of the 'White Devil' depends. He has been bred in arts and letters at the university of Padua;
but being poor and of luxurious appetites, he chooses the path of crime in courts for his advancement.
A duke adopts him for his minion, and Flamineo acts the pander to this great man's lust. He
contrives the death of his brother-in-law, suborns a doctor to poison the Duke's wife, and
arranges secret meetings between his sister and the paramour who is to make her fortune and
his own. His mother appears like a warning Até to prevent her daughter's crime. In his rage
he cries:

  What fury raised thee up? Away, away!

And when she pleads the honour of their house he answers:

                        Shall I,
  Having a path so open and so free
  To my preferment, still retain your milk
  In my pale forehead?

Later on, when it is necessary to remove another victim, he runs his own brother through the
body and drives his mother to madness. Yet, in the midst of these crimes, we are unable to
regard him as a simple cut-throat. His irony and reckless courting of damnation open-eyed to
get his gust of life in this world, make him no common villain. He can be brave as well as
fierce. When the Duke insults him he bandies taunt for taunt:

     Brach. No, you pander?

     Flam. What, me, my lord?
      Am I your dog?

     B. A bloodhound; do you brave, do you stand me?

     F. Stand you! let those that have diseases run;
     I need no plasters.

     B. Would you be kicked?

     F. Would you have your neck broke?
     I tell you, duke, I am not in Russia;
     My shins must be kept whole.

     B. Do you know me?

     F. Oh, my lord, methodically:
     As in this world there are degrees of evils,
     So in this world there are degrees of devils.
     You're a great duke, I your poor secretary.

When the Duke dies and his prey escapes him, the rage of disappointment breaks into this fierce
apostrophe:

     I cannot conjure; but if prayers or oaths. Will get the
     speech of him, though forty devils Wait on him in his livery
     of flames, I'll speak to him and shake him by the hand,
     Though I be blasted.

As crimes thicken round him, and he still despairs of the reward for which he sold himself,
conscience awakes:

                              I have lived
     Riotously ill, like some that live in court,
     And sometimes when my face was full of smiles Have felt the
     maze of conscience in my breast.

The scholar's scepticism, which lies at the root of his perversity, finds utterance in this
meditation upon death:

     Whither shall I go now? O Lucian, thy ridiculous purgatory!
     to find Alexander the Great cobbling shoes, Pompey tagging
     points, and Julius Cæsar making hair-buttons!

     Whether I resolve to fire, earth, water, air, or all the
     elements by scruples, I know not, nor greatly care.

At the last moment he yet can say:

     We cease to grieve, cease to be Fortune's slaves, Nay, cease
     to die, by dying.

And again, with the very yielding of his spirit:

     My life was a black charnel.

It will be seen that in no sense does Flamineo resemble Iago. He is not a traitor working by
craft and calculating ability to well-considered ends. He is the desperado frantically clutching
at an uncertain and impossible satisfaction. Webster conceives him as a self-abandoned atheist,
who, maddened by poverty and tainted by vicious living, takes a fury to his heart, and, because
the goodness of the world has been for ever lost to him, recklessly seeks the bad.

Bosola, in the 'Duchess of Malfi,' is of the same stamp. He too has been a scholar. He is sent
to the galleys 'for a notorious murder,' and on his release he enters the service of two brothers,
the Duke of Calabria and the Cardinal of Aragon, who place him as their intelligencer at the
court of their sister.

     Bos. It seems you would create me
     One of your familiars.

     Ferd. Familiar! what's that?

     Bos. Why, a very quaint invisible devil in flesh,
     An intelligencer.

     Ferd. Such a kind of thriving thing
      I would wish thee; and ere long thou may'st arrive
      At a higher place by it.

Lured by hope of preferment, Bosola undertakes the office of spy, tormentor, and at last of
executioner. For:

    Discontent and want
  Is the best clay to mould a villain of.

But his true self, though subdued to be what he quaintly styles 'the devil's quilted anvil,'
on which 'all sins are fashioned and the blows never heard,' continually rebels against this
destiny. Compared with Flamineo, he is less unnaturally criminal. His melancholy is more fantastic,
his despair more noble. Throughout the course of craft and cruelty on which he is goaded by
a relentless taskmaster, his nature, hardened as it is, revolts.

At the end, when Bosola presents the body of the murdered Duchess to her brother, Webster has
wrought a scene of tragic savagery that surpasses almost any other that the English stage can
show. The sight, of his dead sister maddens Ferdinand, who, feeling the eclipse of reason gradually
absorb his faculties, turns round with frenzied hatred on the accomplice of his fratricide.
Bosola demands the price of guilt. Ferdinand spurns him with the concentrated eloquence of
despair and the extravagance of approaching insanity. The murderer taunts his master coldly
and laconically, like a man whose life is wrecked, who has waded through blood to his reward,
and who at the last moment discovers the sacrifice of his conscience and masculine freedom
to be fruitless. Remorse, frustrated hopes, and thirst for vengeance convert Bosola from this
hour forward into an instrument of retribution. The Duke and his brother the Cardinal are both
brought to bloody deaths by the hand which they had used to assassinate their sister.

It is fitting that something should be said about Webster's conception of the Italian despot.
Brachiano and Ferdinand, the employers of Flamineo and Bosola, are tyrants such as Savonarola
described, and as we read of in the chronicles of petty Southern cities. Nothing is suffered
to stand between their lust and its accomplishment. They override the law by violence, or pervert
its action to their own advantage:

    The law to him
  Is like a foul black cobweb to a spider;
  He makes it his dwelling and a prison
  To entangle those shall feed him.

They are eaten up with parasites, accomplices, and all the creatures of their crimes:

     He and his brother are like plum-trees that grow crooked
     over standing pools; they are rich and over-laden with
     fruit, but none but crows, pies, and caterpillars feed on
     them.

In their lives they are without a friend; for society in guilt brings nought of comfort, and
honours are but emptiness:

     Glories, like glow-worms, afar off shine bright;
     But looked to near, have neither heat nor light.

Their plots and counterplots drive repose far from them:

     There's but three furies found in spacious hell;
     But in a great man's breast three thousand dwell.

Fearful shapes afflict their fancy; shadows of ancestral crime or ghosts of their own raising:

                      For these many years
  None of our family dies, but there is seen
  The shape of an old woman; which is given
  By tradition to us to have been murdered
  By her nephews for her riches.

Apparitions haunt them:

    How tedious is a guilty conscience!
  When I look into the fish-ponds in my garden,
  Methinks I see a thing armed with a rake
  That seems to strike at me.

Continually scheming against the objects of their avarice and hatred, preparing poisons or
suborning bravoes, they know that these same arts will be employed against them. The wine-cup
hides arsenic; the headpiece is smeared with antimony; there is a dagger behind every arras,
and each shadow is a murderer's. When death comes, they meet it trembling. What irony Webster
has condensed in Brachiano's outcry:

  On pain of death, let no man name death to me;
  It is a word infinitely horrible.

And how solemn are the following reflections on the death of princes:

  O thou soft natural death, that art joint-twin
  To sweetest slumber! no rough-bearded comet
  Stares on thy mild departure; the dull owl
  Beats not against thy casement, the hoarse wolf
  Scents not thy carrion: pity winds thy corse,
  Whilst horror waits on princes.

After their death, this is their epitaph:

               These wretched eminent things
  Leave no more fame behind'em than should one
  Fall in a frost and leave his print in snow.

Of Webster's despots, the finest in conception and the firmest in execution is Ferdinand of
Aragon. Jealousy of his sister and avarice take possession of him and torment him like furies.
The flash of repentance over her strangled body is also the first flash of insanity. He survives
to present the spectacle of a crazed lunatic, and to be run through the body by his paid assassin.
In the Cardinal of Aragon, Webster paints a profligate Churchman, no less voluptuous, blood-guilty,
and the rest of it, than his brother the Duke of Calabria. It seems to have been the poet's
purpose in each of his Italian tragedies to unmask Rome as the Papal city really was. In the
lawless desperado, the intemperate tyrant, and the godless ecclesiastic, he portrayed the three
curses from which Italian society was actually suffering.

It has been needful to dwell upon the gloomy and fantastic side of Webster's genius. But it
must not be thought that he could touch no finer chord. Indeed, it might be said that in the
domain of pathos he is even more powerful than in that of horror. His mastery in this region
is displayed in the creation of that dignified and beautiful woman, the Duchess of Malfi, who,
with nothing in her nature, had she but lived prosperously, to divide her from the sisterhood
of gentle ladies, walks, shrined in love and purity and conscious rectitude, amid the snares
and pitfalls of her persecutors, to die at last the victim of a brother's fevered avarice and
a desperado's egotistical ambition. The apparatus of infernal cruelty, the dead man's hand,
the semblances of murdered sons and husband, the masque of madmen, the dirge and doleful emblems
of the tomb with which she is environed in her prison by the torturers who seek to goad her
into lunacy, are insufficient to disturb the tranquillity and tenderness of her nature. When
the rope is being fastened to her throat, she does not spend her breath in recriminations,
but turns to the waiting-woman and says:

                        Farewell, Cariola!
  I pray thee look thou givest my little boy
  Some syrup for his cold, and let the girl
  Say her prayers ere she sleep.

In the preceding scenes we have had enough, nay, over-much, of madness, despair, and wrestling
with doom. This is the calm that comes when death is present, when the tortured soul lays down
its burden of the flesh with gladness. But Webster has not spared another touch of thrilling
pathos.

The death-struggle is over; the fratricide has rushed away, a maddened man; the murderer is
gazing with remorse upon the beautiful dead body of his lady, wishing he had the world wherewith
to buy her back to life again; when suddenly she murmurs 'Mercy!' Our interest, already overstrained,
revives with momentary hope. But the guardians of the grave will not be exorcised; and 'Mercy!'
is the last groan of the injured Duchess.

Webster showed great skill in his delineation of the Duchess. He had to paint a woman in a
hazardous situation: a sovereign stooping in her widowhood to wed a servant; a lady living
with the mystery of this unequal marriage round her like a veil. He dowered her with no salient
qualities of intellect or heart or will; but he sustained our sympathy with her, and made us
comprehend her. To the last she is a Duchess; and when she has divested state and bowed her
head to enter the low gate of heaven--too low for coronets--her poet shows us, in the lines
already quoted, that the woman still survives.

The same pathos surrounds the melancholy portrait of Isabella in 'Vittoria Corombona.' But
Isabella, in that play, serves chiefly to enhance the tyranny of her triumphant rival. The
main difficulty under which these scenes of rarest pathos would labour, were they brought upon
the stage, is their simplicity in contrast with the ghastly and contorted horrors that envelop
them. A dialogue abounding in the passages I have already quoted--a dialogue which bandies
'O you screech-owl!' and 'Thou foul black cloud!'--in which a sister's admonition to her brother
to think twice of suicide assumes a form so weird as this:

                 I prithee, yet remember,
  Millions are now in graves, which at last day
  Like mandrakes shall rise shrieking.--

such a dialogue could not be rendered save by actors strung up to a pitch of almost frenzied
tension. To do full justice to what in Webster's style would be spasmodic were it not so weighty,
and at the same time to maintain the purity of outline and melodious rhythm of such characters
as Isabella, demands no common histrionic power.

In attempting to define Webster's touch upon Italian tragic story, I have been led perforce
to concentrate attention on what is painful and shocking to our sense of harmony in art. He
was a vigorous and profoundly imaginative playwright. But his most enthusiastic admirers will
hardly contend that good taste or moderation determined the movement of his genius. Nor, though
his insight into the essential dreadfulness of Italian tragedy was so deep, is it possible
to maintain that his portraiture of Italian life was true to its more superficial aspects.
What place would there be for a Correggio or a Raphael in such a world as Webster's? Yet we
know that the art of Raphael and Correggio is in exact harmony with the Italian temperament
of the same epoch which gave birth to Cesare Borgia and Bianca Gapello. The comparatively slighter
sketch of Iachimo in 'Cymbeline' represents the Italian as he felt and lived, better than the
laboured portrait of Flamineo. Webster's Italian tragedies are consequently true, not so much
to the actual conditions of Italy, as to the moral impression made by those conditions on a
Northern imagination.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARMA

Parma is perhaps the brightest Residenzstadt of the second class in Italy. Built on a sunny
and fertile tract of the Lombard plain, within view of the Alps, and close beneath the shelter
of the Apennines, it shines like a well-set gem with stately towers and cheerful squares in
the midst of verdure. The cities of Lombardy are all like large country houses: walking out
of their gates, you seem to be stepping from a door or window that opens on a trim and beautiful
garden, where mulberry-tree is married to mulberry by festoons of vines, and where the maize
and sunflower stand together in rows between patches of flax and hemp. But it is not in order
to survey the union of well-ordered husbandry with the civilities of ancient city-life that
we break the journey at Parma between Milan and Bologna. We are attracted rather by the fame
of one great painter, whose work, though it may be studied piecemeal in many galleries of Europe,
in Parma has a fulness, largeness, and mastery that can nowhere else be found. In Parma alone
Correggio challenges comparison with Raphael, with Tintoret, with all the supreme decorative
painters who have deigned to make their art the handmaid of architecture. Yet even in the cathedral
and the church of S. Giovanni, where Correggio's frescoes cover cupola and chapel wall, we
could scarcely comprehend his greatness now--so cruelly have time and neglect dealt with those
delicate dream-shadows of celestial fairyland--were it not for an interpreter, who consecrated
a lifetime to the task of translating his master's poetry of fresco into the prose of engraving.
That man was Paolo Toschi--a name to be ever venerated by all lovers of the arts; since without
his guidance we should hardly know what to seek for in the ruined splendours of the domes of
Parma, or even seeking, how to find the object of our search. Toschi's labour was more effectual
than that of a restorer however skilful, more loving than that of a follower however faithful.
He respected Correggio's handiwork with religious scrupulousness, adding not a line or tone
or touch of colour to the fading frescoes; but he lived among them, aloft on scaffoldings,
and face to face with the originals which he designed to reproduce. By long and close familiarity,
by obstinate and patient interrogation, he divined Correggio's secret, and was able at last
to see clearly through the mist of cobweb and mildew and altar smoke, and through the still
more cruel travesty of so-called restoration. What he discovered, he faithfully committed first
to paper in water colours, and then to copperplate with the burin, so that we enjoy the privilege
of seeing Correggio's masterpieces as Toschi saw them, with the eyes of genius and of love
and of long scientific study. It is not too much to say that some of Correggio's most charming
compositions--for example, the dispute of S. Augustine and S. John--have been resuscitated
from the grave by Toschi's skill. The original offers nothing but a mouldering surface from
which the painter's work has dropped in scales. The engraving presents a design which we doubt
not was Correggio's, for it corresponds in all particulars to the style and spirit of the master.
To be critical in dealing with so successful an achievement of restoration and translation
is difficult. Yet it may be admitted once and for all that Toschi has not unfrequently enfeebled
his original. Under his touch Correggio loses somewhat of his sensuous audacity, his dithyrambic
ecstasy, and approaches the ordinary standard of prettiness and graceful beauty. The Diana
of the Camera di S. Paolo, for instance, has the strong calm splendour of a goddess: the same
Diana in Toschi's engraving seems about to smile with girlish joy. In a word, the engraver
was a man of a more common stamp--more timid and more conventional than the painter. But this
is after all a trifling deduction from the value of his work.

Our debt to Paolo Toschi is such that it would be ungrateful not to seek some details of his
life. The few that can be gathered even at Parma are brief and bald enough. The newspaper articles
and funeral panegyrics which refer to him are as barren as all such occasional notices in Italy
have always been; the panegyrist seeming more anxious about his own style than eager to communicate
information. Yet a bare outline of Toschi's biography may be supplied. He was born at Parma
in 1788. His father was cashier of the post-office, and his mother's name was Anna Maria Brest.
Early in his youth he studied painting at Parma under Biagio Martini; and in 1809 he went to
Paris, where he learned the art of engraving from Bervic and of etching from Oortman. In Paris
he contracted an intimate friendship with the painter Gérard. But after ten years he returned
to Parma, where he established a company and school of engravers in concert with his friend
Antonio Isac. Maria Louisa, the then Duchess, under whose patronage the arts flourished at
Parma (witness Bodoni's exquisite typography), soon recognised his merit, and appointed him
Director of the Ducal Academy. He then formed the project of engraving a series of the whole
of Correggio's frescoes. The undertaking was a vast one. Both the cupolas of S. John and the
cathedral, together with the vault of the apse of S. Giovanni[10] and various portions of the
side aisles, and the so-called Camera di S. Paolo, are covered by frescoes of Correggio and
his pupil Parmegiano. These frescoes have suffered so much from neglect and time, and from
unintelligent restoration, that it is difficult in many cases to determine their true character.
Yet Toschi did not content himself with selections, or shrink from the task of deciphering
and engraving the whole. He formed a school of disciples, among whom were Carlo Raimondi of
Milan, Antonio Costa of Venice, Edward Eichens of Berlin, Aloisio Juvara of Naples, Antonio
Dalcò, Giuseppe Magnani, and Lodovico Bisola of Parma, and employed them as assistants in his
work. Death overtook him in 1854, before it was finished, and now the water-colour drawings
which are exhibited in the Gallery of Parma prove to what extent the achievement fell short
of his design. Enough, however, was accomplished to place the chief masterpieces of Correggio
beyond the possibility of utter oblivion.

To the piety of his pupil Carlo Raimondi, the bearer of a name illustrious in the annals of
engraving, we owe a striking portrait of Toschi. The master is represented on his seat upon
the scaffold in the dizzy half-light of the dome. The shadowy forms of saints and angels are
around him. He has raised his eyes from his cartoon to study one of these. In his right hand
is the opera-glass with which he scrutinises the details of distant groups. The upturned face,
with its expression of contemplative intelligence, is like that of an astronomer accustomed
to commerce with things above the sphere of common life, and ready to give account of all that
he has gathered from his observation of a world not ours. In truth the world created by Correggio
and interpreted by Toschi is very far removed from that of actual existence. No painter has
infused a more distinct individuality into his work, realising by imaginative force and powerful
projection an order of beauty peculiar to himself, before which it is impossible to remain
quite indifferent. We must either admire the manner of Correggio, or else shrink from it with
the distaste which sensual art is apt to stir in natures of a severe or simple type.

What, then, is the Correggiosity of Correggio? In other words, what is the characteristic which,
proceeding from the personality of the artist, is impressed on all his work? The answer to
this question, though by no means simple, may perhaps be won by a process of gradual analysis.
The first thing that strikes us in the art of Correggio is, that he has aimed at the realistic
representation of pure unrealities. His saints and angels are beings the like of whom we have
hardly seen upon the earth. Yet they are displayed before us with all the movement and the
vivid truth of nature. Next we feel that what constitutes the superhuman, visionary quality
of these creatures, is their uniform beauty of a merely sensuous type. They are all created
for pleasure, not for thought or passion or activity or heroism. The uses of their brains,
their limbs, their every feature, end in enjoyment; innocent and radiant wantonness is the
condition of their whole existence. Correggio conceived the universe under the one mood of
sensuous joy: his world was bathed in luxurious light; its inhabitants were capable of little
beyond a soft voluptuousness. Over the domain of tragedy he had no sway, and very rarely did
he attempt to enter on it: nothing, for example, can be feebler than his endeavour to express
anguish in the distorted features of Madonna, S. John, and the Magdalen, who are bending over
the dead body of a Christ extended in the attitude of languid repose. In like manner he could
not deal with subjects which demand a pregnancy of intellectual meaning. He paints the three
Fates like young and joyous Bacchantes, places rose-garlands and thyrsi in their hands instead
of the distaff and the thread of human destinies, and they might figure appropriately upon
the panels of a banquet-chamber in Pompeii. In this respect Correggio might be termed the Rossini
of painting. The melodies of the 'Stabat Mater'--Fac ut portem or Quis est homo--are the exact
analogues in music of Correggio's voluptuous renderings of grave or mysterious motives. Nor,
again, did he possess that severe and lofty art of composition which subordinates the fancy
to the reason, and which seeks for the highest intellectual beauty in a kind of architectural
harmony supreme above the melodies of gracefulness in detail. The Florentines and those who
shared their spirit--Michelangelo and Lionardo and Raphael--deriving this principle of design
from the geometrical art of the Middle Ages, converted it to the noblest uses in their vast
well-ordered compositions. But Correggio ignored the laws of scientific construction. It was
enough for him to produce a splendid and brilliant effect by the life and movement of his figures,
and by the intoxicating beauty of his forms. His type of beauty, too, is by no means elevated.
Lionardo painted souls whereof the features and the limbs are but an index. The charm of Michelangelo's
ideal is like a flower upon a tree of rugged strength. Raphael aims at the loveliness which
cannot be disjoined from goodness. But Correggio is contented with bodies 'delicate and desirable.'
His angels are genii disimprisoned from the perfumed chalices of flowers, houris of an erotic
paradise, elemental spirits of nature wantoning in Eden in her prime. To accuse the painter
of conscious immorality or of what is stigmatised as sensuality, would be as ridiculous as
to class his seraphic beings among the products of the Christian imagination. They belong to
the generation of the fauns; like fauns, they combine a certain savage wildness, a dithyrambic
ecstasy of inspiration, a delight in rapid movement as they revel amid clouds or flowers, with
the permanent and all-pervading sweetness of the master's style. When infantine or childlike,
these celestial sylphs are scarcely to be distinguished for any noble quality of beauty from
Murillo's cherubs, and are far less divine than the choir of children who attend Madonna in
Titian's 'Assumption.' But in their boyhood and their prime of youth, they acquire a fulness
of sensuous vitality and a radiance that are peculiar to Correggio. The lily-bearer who helps
to support S. Thomas beneath the dome of the cathedral at Parma, the groups of seraphs who
crowd behind the Incoronata of S. Giovanni, and the two wild-eyed open-mouthed S. Johns stationed
at each side of the celestial throne, are among the most splendid instances of the adolescent
loveliness conceived by Correggio. Where the painter found their models may be questioned but
not answered; for he has made them of a different fashion from the race of mortals: no court
of Roman emperor or Turkish sultan, though stocked with the flowers of Bithynian and Circassian
youth, have seen their like. Mozart's Cherubino seems to have sat for all of them. At any rate
they incarnate the very spirit of the songs he sings.

As a consequence of this predilection for sensuous and voluptuous forms, Correggio had no power
of imagining grandly or severely. Satisfied with material realism in his treatment even of
sublime mysteries, he converts the hosts of heaven into a 'fricassee of frogs,' according to
the old epigram. His apostles, gazing after the Virgin who has left the earth, are thrown into
attitudes so violent and so dramatically foreshortened, that seen from below upon the pavement
of the cathedral, little of their form is distinguishable except legs and arms in vehement
commotion. Very different is Titian's conception of this scene. To express the spiritual meaning,
the emotion of Madonna's transit, with all the pomp which colour and splendid composition can
convey, is Titian's sole care; whereas Correggio appears to have been satisfied with realising
the tumult of heaven rushing to meet earth, and earth straining upwards to ascend to heaven
in violent commotion--a very orgasm of frenetic rapture. The essence of the event is forgotten:
its external manifestation alone is presented to the eye; and only the accessories of beardless
angels and cloud-encumbered cherubs are really beautiful amid a surge of limbs in restless
movement. More dignified, because designed with more repose, is the Apocalypse of S. John painted
upon the cupola of S. Giovanni. The apostles throned on clouds, with which the dome is filled,
gaze upward to one point. Their attitudes are noble; their form is heroic; in their eyes there
is the strange ecstatic look by which Correggio interpreted his sense of supernatural vision:
it is a gaze not of contemplation or deep thought, but of wild half-savage joy, as if these
saints also had become the elemental genii of cloud and air, spirits emergent from ether, the
salamanders of an empyrean intolerable to mortal sense. The point on which their eyes converge,
the culmination of their vision, is the figure of Christ. Here all the weakness of Correggio's
method is revealed. He had undertaken to realise by no ideal allegorical suggestion, by no
symbolism of architectural grouping, but by actual prosaic measurement, by corporeal form in
subjection to the laws of perspective and foreshortening, things which in their very essence
admit of only a figurative revelation. Therefore his Christ, the centre of all those earnest
eyes, is contracted to a shape in which humanity itself is mean, a sprawling figure which irresistibly
reminds one of a frog. The clouds on which the saints repose are opaque and solid; cherubs
in countless multitudes, a swarm of merry children, crawl about upon these feather-beds of
vapour, creep between the legs of the apostles, and play at bopeep behind their shoulders.
There is no propriety in their appearance there. They take no interest in the beatific vision.
They play no part in the celestial symphony; nor are they capable of more than merely infantine
enjoyment. Correggio has sprinkled them lavishly like living flowers about his cloudland, because
he could not sustain a grave and solemn strain of music, but was forced by his temperament
to overlay the melody with roulades. Gazing at these frescoes, the thought came to me that
Correggio was like a man listening to sweetest flute-playing, and translating phrase after
phrase as they passed through his fancy into laughing faces, breezy tresses, and rolling mists.
Sometimes a grander cadence reached his ear; and then S. Peter with the keys, or S. Augustine
of the mighty brow, or the inspired eyes of S. John, took form beneath his pencil. But the
light airs returned, and rose and lily faces bloomed again for him among the clouds. It is
not therefore in dignity or sublimity that Correggio excels, but in artless grace and melodious
tenderness. The Madonna della Scala clasping her baby with a caress which the little child
returns, S. Catherine leaning in a rapture of ecstatic love to wed the infant Christ, S. Sebastian
in the bloom of almost boyish beauty, are the so-called sacred subjects to which the painter
was adequate, and which he has treated with the voluptuous tenderness we find in his pictures
of Leda and Danae and Io. Could these saints and martyrs descend from Correggio's canvas, and
take flesh, and breathe, and begin to live; of what high action, of what grave passion, of
what exemplary conduct in any walk of life would they be capable? That is the question which
they irresistibly suggest; and we are forced to answer, None! The moral and religious world
did not exist for Correggio. His art was but a way of seeing carnal beauty in a dream that
had no true relation to reality.

Correggio's sensibility to light and colour was exactly on a par with his feeling for form.
He belongs to the poets of chiaroscuro and the poets of colouring; but in both regions he maintains
the individuality so strongly expressed in his choice of purely sensuous beauty. Tintoretto
makes use of light and shade for investing his great compositions with dramatic intensity.
Rembrandt interprets sombre and fantastic moods of the mind by golden gloom and silvery irradiation,
translating thought into the language of penumbral mystery. Lionardo studies the laws of light
scientifically, so that the proper roundness and effect of distance should be accurately rendered,
and all the subtleties of nature's smiles be mimicked. Correggio is content with fixing on
his canvas the [Greek: anêrithmon gelasma], the many-twinkling laughter of light in motion,
rained down through fleecy clouds or trembling foliage, melting into half-shadows, bathing
and illuminating every object with a soft caress. There are no tragic contrasts of splendour
sharply defined on blackness, no mysteries of half-felt and pervasive twilight, no studied
accuracies of noonday clearness in his work. Light and shadow are woven together on his figures
like an impalpable Coan gauze, aërial and transparent, enhancing the palpitations of voluptuous
movement which he loved. His colouring, in like manner, has none of the superb and mundane
pomp which the Venetians affected; it does not glow or burn or beat the fire of gems into our
brain; joyous and wanton, it seems to be exactly such a beauty-bloom as sense requires for
its satiety. There is nothing in his hues to provoke deep passion or to stimulate the yearnings
of the soul: the pure blushes of the dawn and the crimson pyres of sunset are nowhere in the
world that he has painted. But that chord of jocund colour which may fitly be married to the
smiles of light, the blues which are found in laughing eyes, the pinks that tinge the cheeks
of early youth, and the warm yet silvery tones of healthy flesh, mingle as in a marvellous
pearl-shell on his pictures. Both chiaroscuro and colouring have this supreme purpose in art,
to effect the sense like music, and like music to create a mood in the soul of the spectator.
Now the mood which Correggio stimulates is one of natural and thoughtless pleasure. To feel
his influence, and at the same moment to be the subject of strong passion, or fierce lust,
or heroic resolve, or profound contemplation, or pensive melancholy, is impossible. Wantonness,
innocent because unconscious of sin, immoral because incapable of any serious purpose, is the
quality which prevails in all that he has painted. The pantomimes of a Mohammedan paradise
might be put upon the stage after patterns supplied by this least spiritual of painters.

It follows from this analysis that the Correggiosity of Correggio, that which sharply distinguished
him from all previous artists, was the faculty of painting a purely voluptuous dream of beautiful
beings in perpetual movement, beneath the laughter of morning light, in a world of never-failing
April hues. When he attempts to depart from the fairyland of which he was the Prospero, and
to match himself with the masters of sublime thought or earnest passion, he proves his weakness.
But within his own magic circle he reigns supreme, no other artist having blended the witcheries
of colouring, chiaroscuro,and faunlike loveliness of form into a harmony so perfect in its
sensuous charm. Bewitched by the strains of the siren, we pardon affectations of expression,
emptiness of meaning, feebleness of composition, exaggerated and melodramatic attitudes. There
is what Goethe called a demonic influence in the art of Correggio: 'In poetry,' said Goethe
to Eckermann, 'especially in that which is unconscious, before which reason and understanding
fall short, and which therefore produces effects so far surpassing all conception, there is
always something demonic.' It is not to be wondered that Correggio, possessed of this demonic
power in the highest degree, and working to a purely sensuous end, should have exercised a
fatal influence over art. His successors, attracted by an intoxicating loveliness which they
could not analyse, which had nothing in common with the reason or the understanding, but was
like a glamour cast upon the soul in its most secret sensibilities, threw themselves blindly
into the imitation of Correggio's faults. His affectation, his want of earnest thought, his
neglect of composition, his sensuous realism, his all-pervading sweetness, his infantine prettiness,
his substitution of thaumaturgical effects for conscientious labour, admitted only too easy
imitation, and were but too congenial with the spirit of the late Renaissance. Cupolas through
the length and breadth of Italy began to be covered with clouds and simpering cherubs in the
convulsions of artificial ecstasy. The attenuated elegance of Parmigiano, the attitudinising
of Anselmi's saints and angels, and a general sacrifice of what is solid and enduring to sentimental
gewgaws on the part of all painters who had submitted to the magic of Correggio, proved how
easy it was to go astray with the great master. Meanwhile no one could approach him in that
which was truly his own--the delineation of a transient moment in the life of sensuous beauty,
the painting of a smile on Nature's face, when light and colour tremble in harmony with the
movement of joyous living creatures. Another demonic nature of a far more powerful type contributed
his share to the ruin of art in Italy. Michelangelo's constrained attitudes and muscular anatomy
were imitated by painters and sculptors, who thought that the grand style lay in the presentation
of theatrical athletes, but who could not seize the secret whereby the great master made even
the bodies of men and women--colossal trunks and writhen limbs--interpret the meanings of his
deep and melancholy soul.

It is a sad law of progress in art, that when the æsthetic impulse is on the wane, artists
should perforce select to follow the weakness rather than the vigour, of their predecessors.
While painting was in the ascendant, Raphael could take the best of Perugino and discard the
worst; in its decadence Parmigiano reproduces the affectations of Correggio, and Bernini carries
the exaggerations of Michelangelo to absurdity. All arts describe a parabola. The force which
produces them causes them to rise throughout their growth up to a certain point, and then to
descend more gradually in a long and slanting line of regular declension. There is no real
break of continuity. The end is the result of simple exhaustion. Thus the last of our Elizabethan
dramatists, Shirley and Crowne and Killigrew, pushed to its ultimate conclusion the principle
inherent in Marlowe, not attempting to break new ground, nor imitating the excellences so much
as the defects of their forerunners. Thus too the Pointed style of architecture in England
gave birth first to what is called the Decorated, next to the Perpendicular, and finally expired
in the Tudor. Each step was a step of progress--at first for the better--at last for the worse--but
logical, continuous, necessitated.[11]

It is difficult to leave Correggio without at least posing the question of the difference between
moralised and merely sensual art. Is all art excellent in itself and good in its effect that
is beautiful and earnest? There is no doubt that Correggio's work is in a way most beautiful;
and it bears unmistakable signs of the master having given himself with single-hearted devotion
to the expression of that phase of loveliness which he could apprehend. In so far we must admit
that his art is both excellent and solid. Yet we are unable to conceive that any human being
could be made better--stronger for endurance, more fitted for the uses of the world, more sensitive
to what is noble in nature--by its contemplation. At the best Correggio does but please us
in our lighter moments, and we are apt to feel that the pleasure he has given is of an enervating
kind. To expect obvious morality of any artist is confessedly absurd. It is not the artist's
province to preach, or even to teach, except by remote suggestion. Yet the mind of the artist
may be highly moralised, and then he takes rank not merely with the ministers to refined pleasure,
but also with the educators of the world. He may, for example, be penetrated with a just sense
of humanity like Shakspere, or with a sublime temperance like Sophocles, instinct with prophetic
intuition like Michelangelo, or with passionate experience like Beethoven. The mere sight of
the work of Pheidias is like breathing pure health-giving air. Milton and Dante were steeped
in religious patriotism; Goethe was pervaded with philosophy, and Balzac with scientific curiosity.
Ariosto, Cervantes, and even Boccaccio are masters in the mysteries of common life. In all
these cases the tone of the artist's mind is felt throughout his work: what he paints, or sings,
or writes, conveys a lesson while it pleases. On the other hand, depravity in an artist or
a poet percolates through work which has in it nothing positive of evil, and a very miasma
of poisonous influence may rise from the apparently innocuous creations of a tainted soul.
Now Correggio is moralised in neither way--neither as a good nor as a bad man, neither as an
acute thinker nor as a deliberate voluptuary. He is simply sensuous. On his own ground he is
even very fresh and healthy: his delineation of youthful maternity, for example, is as true
as it is beautiful; and his sympathy with the gleefulness of children is devoid of affectation.
We have then only to ask ourselves whether the defect in him of all thought and feeling which
is not at once capable of graceful fleshly incarnation, be sufficient to lower him in the scale
of artists. This question must of course be answered according to our definition of the purposes
of art. There is no doubt that the most highly organised art--that which absorbs the most numerous
human qualities and effects a harmony between the most complex elements--is the noblest. Therefore
the artist who combines moral elevation and power of thought with a due appreciation of sensual
beauty, is more elevated and more beneficial than one whose domain is simply that of carnal
loveliness. Correggio, if this be so, must take a comparatively low rank. Just as we welcome
the beautiful athlete for the radiant life that is in him, but bow before the personality of
Sophocles, whose perfect form enshrined a noble and highly educated soul, so we gratefully
accept Correggio for his grace, while we approach the consummate art of Michelangelo with reverent
awe. It is necessary in æsthetics as elsewhere to recognise a hierarchy of excellence, the
grades of which are determined by the greater or less comprehensiveness of the artist's nature
expressed in his work. At the same time, the calibre of the artist's genius must be estimated;
for eminent greatness even of a narrow kind will always command our admiration: and the amount
of his originality has also to be taken into account. What is unique has, for that reason alone,
a claim on our consideration. Judged in this way, Correggio deserves a place, say, in the sweet
planet Venus, above the moon and above Mercury, among the artists who have not advanced beyond
the contemplations which find their proper outcome in love. Yet, even thus, he aids the culture
of humanity. 'We should take care,' said Goethe, apropos of Byron, to Eckermann, 'not to be
always looking for culture in the decidedly pure and moral. Everything that is great promotes
cultivation as soon as we are aware of it.'

       *       *       *       *       *

CANOSSA

Italy is less the land of what is venerable in antiquity, than of beauty, by divine right young
eternally in spite of age. This is due partly to her history and art and literature, partly
to the temper of the races who have made her what she is, and partly to her natural advantages.
Her oldest architectural remains, the temples of Paestum and Girgenti, or the gates of Perugia
and Volterra, are so adapted to Italian landscape and so graceful in their massive strength,
that we forget the centuries which have passed over them. We leap as by a single bound from
the times of Roman greatness to the new birth of humanity in the fourteenth century, forgetting
the many years during which Italy, like the rest of Europe, was buried in what our ancestors
called Gothic barbarism. The illumination cast upon the classic period by the literature of
Rome and by the memory of her great men is so vivid, that we feel the days of the Republic
and the Empire to be near us; while the Italian Renaissance is so truly a revival of that former
splendour, a resumption of the music interrupted for a season, that it is extremely difficult
to form any conception of the five long centuries which elapsed between the Lombard invasion
in 568 and the accession of Hildebrand to the Pontificate in 1073. So true is it that nothing
lives and has reality for us but what is spiritual, intellectual, self-possessed in personality
and consciousness. When the Egyptian priest said to Solon, 'You Greeks are always children,'
he intended a gentle sarcasm, but he implied a compliment; for the quality of imperishable
youth belonged to the Hellenic spirit, and has become the heritage of every race which partook
of it. And this spirit in no common degree has been shared by the Italians of the earlier and
the later classic epoch. The land is full of monuments pertaining to those two brilliant periods;
and whenever the voice of poet has spoken or the hand of artist has been at work, that spirit,
as distinguished from the spirit of mediaevalism, has found expression.

Yet it must be remembered that during the five centuries above mentioned Italy was given over
to Lombards, Franks, and Germans. Feudal institutions, alien to the social and political ideals
of the classic world, took a tolerably firm hold on the country. The Latin element remained
silent, passive, in abeyance, undergoing an important transformation. It was in the course
of those five hundred years that the Italians as a modern people, separable from their Roman
ancestors, were formed. At the close of this obscure passage in Italian history, their communes,
the foundation of Italy's future independence, and the source of her peculiar national development,
appeared in all the vigour and audacity of youth. At its close the Italian genius presented
Europe with its greatest triumph of constructive ability, the Papacy. At its close again the
series of supreme artistic achievements, starting with the architecture of churches and public
palaces, passing on to sculpture and painting, and culminating in music, which only ended with
the temporary extinction of national vitality in the seventeenth century, was simultaneously
begun in all the provinces of the peninsula.

So important were these five centuries of incubation for Italy, and so little is there left
of them to arrest the attention of the student, dazzled as he is by the ever-living glories
of Greece, Rome, and the Renaissance, that a visit to the ruins of Canossa is almost a duty.
There, in spite of himself, by the very isolation and forlorn abandonment of what was once
so formidable a seat of feudal despotism and ecclesiastical tyranny, he is forced to confront
the obscure but mighty spirit of the middle ages. There, if anywhere, the men of those iron-hearted
times anterior to the Crusades will acquire distinctness for his imagination, when he recalls
the three main actors in the drama enacted on the summit of Canossa's rock in the bitter winter
of 1077.

Canossa lies almost due south of Reggio d'Emilia, upon the slopes of the Apennines. Starting
from Reggio, the carriage-road keeps to the plain for some while in a westerly direction, and
then bends away towards the mountains. As we approach their spurs, the ground begins to rise.
The rich Lombard tilth of maize and vine gives place to English-looking hedgerows, lined with
oaks, and studded with handsome dark tufts of green hellebore. The hills descend in melancholy
earth-heaps on the plain, crowned here and there with ruined castles. Four of these mediaeval
strongholds, called Bianello, Montevetro, Monteluzzo, and Montezano, give the name of Quattro
Castelli to the commune. The most important of them, Bianello, which, next to Canossa, was
the strongest fortress possessed by the Countess Matilda and her ancestors, still presents
a considerable mass of masonry, roofed and habitable. The group formed a kind of advance-guard
for Canossa against attack from Lombardy. After passing Quattro Castelli we enter the hills,
climbing gently upwards between barren slopes of ashy grey earth--the débris of most ancient
Apennines--crested at favourable points with lonely towers. In truth the whole country bristles
with ruined forts, making it clear that during the middle ages Canossa was but the centre of
a great military system, the core and kernel of a fortified position which covered an area
to be measured by scores of square miles, reaching far into the mountains, and buttressed on
the plain. As yet, however, after nearly two hours' driving, Canossa has not come in sight.
At last a turn in the road discloses an opening in the valley of the Enza to the left: up this
lateral gorge we see first the Castle of Rossena on its knoll of solid red rock, flaming in
the sunlight; and then, further withdrawn, detached from all surrounding objects, and reared
aloft as though to sweep the sea of waved and broken hills around it, a sharp horn of hard
white stone. That is Canossa--the alba Canossa, the candida petra of its rhyming chronicler.
There is no mistaking the commanding value of its situation. At the same time the brilliant
whiteness of Canossa's rocky hill, contrasted with the red gleam of Rossena, and outlined against
the prevailing dulness of these earthy Apennines, secures a picturesque individuality concordant
with its unique history and unrivalled strength.

There is still a journey of two hours before the castle can be reached: and this may be performed
on foot or horseback. The path winds upward over broken ground; following the arête of curiously
jumbled and thwarted hill-slopes; passing beneath the battlements of Rossena, whence the unfortunate
Everelina threw herself in order to escape the savage love of her lord and jailor; and then
skirting those horrid earthen balze which are so common and so unattractive a feature of Apennine
scenery. The most hideous balze to be found in the length and breadth of Italy are probably
those of Volterra, from which the citizens themselves recoil with a kind of terror, and which
lure melancholy men by intolerable fascination on to suicide. For ever crumbling, altering
with frost and rain, discharging gloomy glaciers of slow-crawling mud, and scarring the hillside
with tracts of barrenness, these earth-precipices are among the most ruinous and discomfortable
failures of nature. They have not even so much of wildness or grandeur as forms, the saving
merit of nearly all wasteful things in the world, and can only be classed with the desolate
ghiare of Italian river-beds.

Such as they are, these balze form an appropriate preface to the gloomy and repellent isolation
of Canossa. The rock towers from a narrow platform to the height of rather more than 160 feet
from its base. The top is fairly level, forming an irregular triangle, of which the greatest
length is about 260 feet, and the width about 100 feet. Scarcely a vestige of any building
can be traced either upon the platform or the summit, with the exception of a broken wall and
windows supposed to belong to the end of the sixteenth century. The ancient castle, with its
triple circuit of walls, enclosing barracks for the garrison, lodgings for the lord and his
retainers, a stately church, a sumptuous monastery, storehouses, stables, workshops, and all
the various buildings of a fortified stronghold, have utterly disappeared. The very passage
of approach cannot be ascertained; for it is doubtful whether the present irregular path that
scales the western face of the rock be really the remains of some old staircase, corresponding
to that by which Mont S. Michel in Normandy is ascended. One thing is tolerably certain--that
the three walls of which we hear so much from the chroniclers, and which played so picturesque
a part in the drama of Henry IV.'s penance, surrounded the cliff at its base, and embraced
a large acreage of ground. The citadel itself must have been but the acropolis or keep of an
extensive fortress.

There has been plenty of time since the year 1255, when the people of Reggio sacked and destroyed
Canossa, for Nature to resume her undisputed sway by obliterating the handiwork of men; and
at present Nature forms the chief charm of Canossa. Lying one afternoon of May on the crisp
short grass at the edge of a precipice purple with iris in full blossom, I surveyed, from what
were once the battlements of Matilda's castle, a prospect than which there is none more spirit-stirring
by reason of its beauty and its manifold associations in Europe. The lower castle-crowded hills
have sunk. Reggio lies at our feet, shut in between the crests of Monte Carboniano and Monte
delle Celle. Beyond Reggio stretches Lombardy--the fairest and most memorable battlefield of
nations, the richest and most highly cultivated garden of civilised industry. Nearly all the
Lombard cities may be seen, some of them faint like bluish films of vapour, some clear with
dome and spire. There is Modena and her Ghirlandina. Carpi, Parma, Mirandola, Verona, Mantua,
lie well defined and russet on the flat green map; and there flashes a bend of lordly Po; and
there the Euganeans rise like islands, telling us where Padua and Ferrara nestle in the amethystine
haze Beyond and above all to the northward sweep the Alps, tossing their silvery crests up
into the cloudless sky from the violet mist that girds their flanks and drowns their basements.
Monte Adamello and the Ortler, the cleft of the Brenner, and the sharp peaks of the Venetian
Alps are all distinctly visible. An eagle flying straight from our eyrie might traverse Lombardy
and light among the snow-fields of the Valtelline between sunrise and sundown. Nor is the prospect
tame to southward. Here the Apennines roll, billow above billow, in majestic desolation, soaring
to snow summits in the Pellegrino region. As our eye attempts to thread that labyrinth of hill
and vale, we tell ourselves that those roads wind to Tuscany, and yonder stretches Garfagnana,
where Ariosto lived and mused in honourable exile from the world he loved.

It was by one of the mountain passes that lead from Lucca northward that the first founder
of Canossa is said to have travelled early in the tenth century. Sigifredo, if the tradition
may be trusted, was very wealthy; and with his money he bought lands and signorial rights at
Reggio, bequeathing to his children, when he died about 945, a patrimony which they developed
into a petty kingdom. Azzo, his second son, fortified Canossa, and made it his principal place
of residence. When Lothair, King of Italy, died in 950, leaving his beautiful widow to the
ill-treatment of his successor, Berenger, Adelaide found a protector in this Azzo. She had
been imprisoned on the Lake of Garda; but managing to escape in man's clothes to Mantua, she
thence sent news of her misfortunes to Canossa. Azzo lost no time in riding with his knights
to her relief, and brought her back in safety to his mountain fastness. It is related that
Azzo was afterwards instrumental in calling Otho into Italy and procuring his marriage with
Adelaide, in consequence of which events Italy became a fief of the Empire. Owing to the part
he played at this time, the Lord of Canossa was recognised as one of the most powerful vassals
of the German Emperor in Lombardy. Honours were heaped upon him; and he grew so rich and formidable
that Berenger, the titular King of Italy, laid siege to his fortress of Canossa. The memory
of this siege, which lasted for three years and a half, is said still to linger in the popular
traditions of the place. When Azzo died at the end of the tenth century, he left to his son
Tedaldo the title of Count of Reggio and Modena; and this title was soon after raised to that
of Marquis. The Marches governed as Vicar of the Empire by Tedaldo included Reggio, Modena,
Ferrara, Brescia, and probably Mantua. They stretched, in fact, across the north of Italy,
forming a quadrilateral between the Alps and Apennines. Like his father, Tedaldo adhered consistently
to the Imperial party; and when he died and was buried at Canossa, he in his turn bequeathed
to his son Bonifazio a power and jurisdiction increased by his own abilities. Bonifazio held
the state of a sovereign at Canossa, adding the duchy of Tuscany to his father's fiefs, and
meeting the allied forces of the Lombard barons in the field of Coviolo like an independent
potentate. His power and splendour were great enough to rouse the jealousy of the Emperor;
but Henry III. seems to have thought it more prudent to propitiate this proud vassal, and to
secure his kindness, than to attempt his humiliation. Bonifazio married Beatrice, daughter
of Frederick, Duke of Lorraine--her whose marble sarcophagus in the Campo Santo at Pisa is
said to have inspired Niccola Pisano with his new style of sculpture. Their only child, Matilda,
was born, probably at Lucca, in 1046; and six years after her birth, Bonifazio, who had swayed
his subjects like an iron-handed tyrant, was murdered. To the great House of Canossa, the rulers
of one-third of Italy, there now remained only two women, Bonifazio's widow Beatrice, and his
daughter Matilda. Beatrice married Godfrey, Duke of Lorraine, who was recognised by Henry IV.
as her husband and as feudatory of the Empire in the full place of Boniface. He died about
1070; and in this year Matilda was married by proxy to his son, Godfrey the Hunchback, whom,
however, she did not see till the year 1072. The marriage was not a happy one; and the question
has even been disputed among Matilda's biographers whether it was ever consummated. At any
rate it did not last long; for Godfrey was killed at Antwerp in 1076. In this year Matilda
also lost her mother, Beatrice, who died at Pisa, and was buried in the cathedral.

By this rapid enumeration of events it will be seen how the power and honours of the House
of Canossa, including Tuscany, Spoleto, and the fairest portions of Lombardy, had devolved
upon a single woman of the age of thirty at the moment when the fierce quarrel between Pope
and Emperor began in the year 1076. Matilda was destined to play a great, a striking, and a
tragic part in the opening drama of Italian history. Her decided character and uncompromising
course of action have won for her the name of 'la gran donna d'Italia,' and have caused her
memory to be blessed or execrated, according as the temporal pretensions and spiritual tyranny
of the Papacy may have found supporters or opponents in posterity. She was reared from childhood
in habits of austerity and unquestioning piety. Submission to the Church became for her not
merely a rule of conduct, but a passionate enthusiasm. She identified herself with the cause
of four successive Popes, protected her idol, the terrible and iron-hearted Hildebrand, in
the time of his adversity; remained faithful to his principles after his death; and having
served the Holy See with all her force and all that she possessed through all her lifetime,
she bequeathed her vast dominions to it on her deathbed. Like some of the greatest mediaeval
characters--like Hildebrand himself--Matilda was so thoroughly of one piece, that she towers
above the mists of ages with the massive grandeur of an incarnated idea. She is for us the
living statue of a single thought, an undivided impulse, the more than woman born to represent
her age. Nor was it without reason that Dante symbolised in her the love of Holy Church; though
students of the 'Purgatory' will hardly recognise the lovely maiden, singing and plucking flowers
beside the stream of Lethe, in the stern and warlike chatelaine of Canossa. Unfortunately we
know but little of Matilda's personal appearance. Her health was not strong; and it is said
to have been weakened, especially in her last illness, by ascetic observances. Yet she headed
her own troops, armed with sword and cuirass, avoiding neither peril nor fatigue in the quarrels
of her master Gregory. Up to the year 1622 two strong suits of mail were preserved at Quattro
Castelli, which were said to have been worn by her in battle, and which were afterwards sold
on the market-place at Reggio. This habit of donning armour does not, however, prove that Matilda
was exceptionally vigorous; for in those savage times she could hardly have played the part
of heroine without participating personally in the dangers of warfare.

No less monumental in the plastic unity of his character was the monk Hildebrand, who for twenty
years before his elevation to the Papacy had been the maker of Popes and the creator of the
policy of Rome. When he was himself elected in the year 1073, and had assumed the name of Gregory
VII., he immediately began to put in practice the plans for Church aggrandisement he had slowly
matured during the previous quarter of a century. To free the Church from its subservience
to the Empire, to assert the Pope's right to ratify the election of the Emperor and to exercise
the right of jurisdiction over him, to place ecclesiastical appointments in the sole power
of the Roman See, and to render the celibacy of the clergy obligatory, were the points he had
resolved to carry. Taken singly and together, these chief aims of Hildebrand's policy had but
one object--the magnification of the Church at the expense both of the people and of secular
authorities, and the further separation of the Church from the ties and sympathies of common
life that bound it to humanity. To accuse Hildebrand of personal ambition would be but shallow
criticism, though it is clear that his inflexible and puissant nature found a savage selfish
pleasure in trampling upon power and humbling pride at warfare with his own. Yet his was in
no sense an egotistic purpose like that which moved the Popes of the Renaissance to dismember
Italy for their bastards. Hildebrand, like Matilda, was himself the creature of a great idea.
These two potent personalities completely understood each other, and worked towards a single
end. Tho mythopoeic fancy might conceive of them as the male and female manifestations of one
dominant faculty, the spirit of ecclesiastical dominion incarnate in a man and woman of almost
super-human mould.

Opposed to them, as the third actor in the drama of Canossa, was a man of feebler mould. Henry
IV., King of Italy, but not yet crowned Emperor, had none of his opponents' unity of purpose
or monumental dignity of character. At war with his German feudatories, browbeaten by rebellious
sons, unfaithful and cruel to his wife, vacillating in the measures he adopted to meet his
divers difficulties, at one time tormented by his conscience into cowardly submission, and
at another treasonably neglectful of the most solemn obligations, Henry was no match for the
stern wills against which he was destined to break in unavailing passion. Early disagreements
with Gregory had culminated in his excommunication. The German nobles abandoned his cause;
and Henry found it expedient to summon a council in Augsburg for the settlement of matters
in dispute between the Empire and the Papacy. Gregory expressed his willingness to attend this
council, and set forth from Rome accompanied by the Countess Matilda in December 1076. He did
not, however, travel further than Vercelli, for news here reached him that Henry was about
to enter Italy at the head of a powerful army. Matilda hereupon persuaded the Holy Father to
place himself in safety among her strongholds of Canossa. Thither accordingly Gregory retired
before the ending of that year; and bitter were the sarcasms uttered by the imperial partisans
in Italy upon this protection offered by a fair countess to the monk who had been made a Pope.
The foul calumnies of that bygone age would be unworthy of even so much as this notice, if
we did not trace in them the ineradicable Italian tendency to cynical insinuation--a tendency
which has involved the history of the Renaissance Popes in an almost impenetrable mist of lies
and exaggerations. Henry was in truth upon his road to Italy, but with a very different attendance
from that which Gregory expected. Accompanied by Bertha, his wife, and his boy son Conrad,
the Emperor elect left Spires in the condition of a fugitive, crossed Burgundy, spent Christmas
at Besançon, and journeyed to the foot of Mont Cenis. It is said that he was followed by a
single male servant of mean birth; and if the tale of his adventures during the passage of
the Alps can be credited, history presents fewer spectacles more picturesque than the straits
to which this representative of the Cæsars, this supreme chief of feudal civility, this ruler
destined still to be the leader of mighty armies and the father of a line of monarchs, was
exposed. Concealing his real name and state, he induced some shepherds to lead him and his
escort through the thick snows to the summit of Mont Cenis; and by the help of these men the
imperial party were afterwards let down the snow-slopes on the further side by means of ropes.
Bertha and her women were sewn up in hides and dragged across the frozen surface of the winter
drifts. It was a year memorable for its severity. Heavy snow had fallen in October, which continued
ice-bound and unyielding till the following April.

No sooner had Henry reached Turin, than he set forward again in the direction of Canossa. The
fame of his arrival had preceded him, and he found that his party was far stronger in Italy
than he had ventured to expect. Proximity to the Church of Rome divests its fulminations of
half their terrors. The Italian bishops and barons, less superstitious than the Germans, and
with greater reason to resent the domineering graspingness of Gregory, were ready to espouse
the Emperor's cause. Henry gathered a formidable force as he marched onward across Lombardy;
and some of the most illustrious prelates and nobles of the South were in his suite. A more
determined leader than Henry proved himself to be, might possibly have forced Gregory to some
accommodation, in spite of the strength of Canossa and the Pope's invincible obstinacy, by
proper use of these supporters. Meanwhile the adherents of the Church were mustered in Matilda's
fortress; among whom may be mentioned Azzo, the progenitor of Este and Brunswick; Hugh, Abbot
of Clugny; and the princely family of Piedmont. 'I am become a second Rome,' exclaims Canossa,
in the language of Matilda's rhyming chronicler; 'all honours are mine; I hold at once both
Pope and King, the princes of Italy and those of Gaul, those of Rome, and those from far beyond
the Alps.' The stage was ready; the audience had assembled; and now the three great actors
were about to meet. Immediately upon his arrival at Canossa, Henry sent for his cousin, the
Countess Matilda, and besought her to intercede for him with Gregory. He was prepared to make
any concessions or to undergo any humiliations, if only the ban of excommunication might be
removed; nor, cowed as he was by his own superstitious conscience, and by the memory of the
opposition he had met with from his German vassals, does he seem to have once thought of meeting
force with force, and of returning to his northern kingdom triumphant in the overthrow of Gregory's
pride. Matilda undertook to plead his cause before the Pontiff. But Gregory was not to be moved
so soon to mercy. 'If Henry has in truth repented,' he replied, 'let him lay down crown and
sceptre, and declare himself unworthy of the name of king.' The only point conceded to the
suppliant was that he should be admitted in the garb of a penitent within the precincts of
the castle. Leaving his retinue outside the walls, Henry entered the first series of outworks,
and was thence conducted to the second, so that between him and the citadel itself there still
remained the third of the surrounding bastions. Here he was bidden to wait the Pope's pleasure;
and here, in the midst of that bitter winter weather, while the fierce winds of the Apennines
were sweeping sleet upon him in their passage from Monte Pellegrino to the plain, he knelt
barefoot, clothed in sackcloth, fasting from dawn till eve, for three whole days. On the morning
of the fourth day, judging that Gregory was inexorable, and that his suit would not be granted,
Henry retired to the Chapel of S. Nicholas, which stood within this second precinct. There
he called to his aid the Abbot of Clugny and the Countess, both of whom were his relations,
and who, much as they might sympathise with Gregory, could hardly be supposed to look with
satisfaction on their royal kinsman's outrage. The Abbot told Henry that nothing in the world
could move the Pope; but Matilda, when in turn he fell before her knees and wept, engaged to
do for him the utmost. She probably knew that the moment for unbending had arrived, and that
her imperious guest could not with either decency or prudence prolong the outrage offered to
the civil chief of Christendom. It was the 25th of January when the Emperor elect was brought,
half dead with cold and misery, into the Pope's presence. There he prostrated himself in the
dust, crying aloud for pardon. It is said that Gregory first placed his foot upon Henry's neck,
uttering these words of Scripture: 'Super aspidem et basiliscum ambulabis, et conculcabis leonem
et draconem,' and that then he raised him from the earth and formally pronounced his pardon.
The prelates and nobles who took part in this scene were compelled to guarantee with their
own oaths the vows of obedience pronounced by Henry; so that in the very act of reconciliation
a new insult was offered to him. After this Gregory said mass, and permitted Henry to communicate;
and at the close of the day a banquet was served, at which the King sat down to meat with the
Pope and the Countess.

It is probable that, while Henry's penance was performed in the castle courts beneath the rock,
his reception by the Pope, and all that subsequently happened, took place in the citadel itself.
But of this we have no positive information. Indeed the silence of the chronicles as to the
topography of Canossa is peculiarly unfortunate for lovers of the picturesque in historic detail,
now that there is no possibility of tracing the outlines of the ancient building. Had the author
of the 'Vita Mathildis' (Muratori, vol. v.) foreseen that his beloved Canossa would one day
be nothing but a mass of native rock, he would undoubtedly have been more explicit on these
points; and much that is vague about an event only paralleled by our Henry II.'s penance before
Becket's shrine at Canterbury, might now be clear.

Very little remains to be told about Canossa. During the same year, 1077, Matilda made the
celebrated donation of her fiefs to Holy Church. This was accepted by Gregory in the name of
S. Peter, and it was confirmed by a second deed during the pontificate of Urban IV. in 1102.
Though Matilda subsequently married Guelfo d'Este, son of the Duke of Bavaria, she was speedily
divorced from him; nor was there any heir to a marriage ridiculous by reason of disparity of
age, the bridegroom being but eighteen, while the bride was forty-three in the year of her
second nuptials. During one of Henry's descents into Italy, he made an unsuccessful attack
upon Canossa, assailing it at the head of a considerable force one October morning in 1092.
Matilda's biographer informs us that the mists of autumn veiled his beloved fortress from the
eyes of the beleaguerers. They had not even the satisfaction of beholding the unvanquished
citadel; and, what was more, the banner of the Emperor was seized and dedicated as a trophy
in the Church of S. Apollonio. In the following year the Countess opened her gates of Canossa
to an illustrious fugitive, Adelaide, the wife of her old foeman, Henry, who had escaped with
difficulty from the insults and the cruelty of her husband. After Henry's death, his son, the
Emperor Henry V., paid Matilda a visit in her castle of Bianello, addressed her by the name
of mother, and conferred upon her the vice-regency of Liguria. At the age of sixty-nine she
died, in 1115, at Bondeno de' Roncori, and was buried, not among her kinsmen at Canossa, but
in an abbey of S. Benedict near Mantua. With her expired the main line of the noble house she
represented; though Canossa, now made a fief of the Empire in spite of Matilda's donation,
was given to a family which claimed descent from Bonifazio's brother Conrad--a young man killed
in the battle of Coviolo. This family, in its turn, was extinguished in the year 1570; but
a junior branch still exists at Verona. It will be remembered that Michelangelo Buonarroti
claimed kinship with the Count of Canossa; and a letter from the Count is extant acknowledging
the validity of his pretension.

As far back as 1255 the people of Reggio destroyed the castle; nor did the nobles of Canossa
distinguish themselves in subsequent history among those families who based their despotisms
on the débris of the Imperial power in Lombardy. It seemed destined that Canossa and all belonging
to it should remain as a mere name and memory of the outgrown middle ages. Estensi, Carraresi,
Visconti, Bentivogli, and Gonzaghi belong to a later period of Lombard history, and mark the
dawn of the Renaissance.

As I lay and mused that afternoon of May upon the short grass, cropped by two grey goats, whom
a little boy was tending, it occurred to me to ask the woman who had served me as guide, whether
any legend remained in the country concerning the Countess Matilda. She had often, probably,
been asked this question by other travellers. Therefore she was more than usually ready with
an answer, which, as far as I could understand her dialect, was this. Matilda was a great and
potent witch, whose summons the devil was bound to obey. One day she aspired, alone of all
her sex, to say mass; but when the moment came for sacring the elements, a thunderbolt fell
from the clear sky, and reduced her to ashes.[12] That the most single-hearted handmaid of
the Holy Church, whose life was one long devotion to its ordinances, should survive in this
grotesque myth, might serve to point a satire upon the vanity of earthly fame. The legend in
its very extravagance is a fanciful distortion of the truth. Next came the Battle, and after
this the rearguard.

       *       *       *       *       *

FLORENCE AND THE MEDICI

     Di Firenze in prima si divisono intra loro i nobili, dipoi i
     nobili e il popolo, e in ultimo il popolo e la plebe; e
     molte volte occorse che una di queste parti rimasa
     superiore, si divise in due.--MACHIAVELLI.

I

Florence, like all Italian cities, owed her independence to the duel of the Papacy and Empire.
The transference of the imperial authority beyond the Alps had enabled the burghs of Lombardy
and Tuscany to establish a form of self-government. This government was based upon the old
municipal organisation of duumvirs and decemvirs. It was, in fact, nothing more or less than
a survival from the ancient Roman system. The proof of this was, that while vindicating their
rights as towns, the free cities never questioned the validity of the imperial title. Even
after the peace of Constance in 1183, when Frederick Barbarossa acknowledged their autonomy,
they received within their walls a supreme magistrate, with power of life and death and ultimate
appeal in all decisive questions, whose title of Potestà indicated that he represented the
imperial power--Potestas. It was not by the assertion of any right, so much as by the growth
of custom, and by the weakness of the Emperors, that in course of time each city became a sovereign
State. The theoretical supremacy of the Empire prevented any other authority from taking the
first place in Italy. On the other hand, the practical inefficiency of the Emperors to play
their part encouraged the establishment of numerous minor powers amenable to no controlling
discipline.

The free cities derived their strength from industry, and had nothing in common with the nobles
of the surrounding country. Broadly speaking, the population of the towns included what remained
in Italy of the old Roman people. This Roman stock was nowhere stronger than in Florence and
Venice--Florence defended from barbarian incursions by her mountains and marshes, Venice by
the isolation of her lagoons. The nobles, on the contrary, were mostly of foreign origin--Germans,
Franks, and Lombards, who had established themselves as feudal lords in castles apart from
the cities. The force which the burghs acquired as industrial communities was soon turned against
these nobles. The larger cities, like Milan and Florence, began to make war upon the lords
of castles, and to absorb into their own territory the small towns and villages around them.
Thus in the social economy of the Italians there were two antagonistic elements ready to range
themselves beneath any banners that should give the form of legitimate warfare to their mutual
hostility. It was the policy of the Church in the twelfth century to support the cause of the
cities, using them as a weapon against the Empire, and stimulating the growing ambition of
the burghers. In this way Italy came to be divided into the two world-famous factions known
as Guelf and Ghibelline. The struggle between Guelf and Ghibelline was the struggle of the
Papacy for the depression of the Empire, the struggle of the great burghs face to face with
feudalism, the struggle of the old Italie stock enclosed in cities with the foreign nobles
established in fortresses. When the Church had finally triumphed by the extirpation of the
House of Hohenstaufen, this conflict of Guelf and Ghibelline was really ended. Until the reign
of Charles V. no Emperor interfered to any purpose in Italian affairs. At the same time the
Popes ceased to wield a formidable power. Having won the battle by calling in the French, they
suffered the consequences of this policy by losing their hold on Italy during the long period
of their exile at Avignon. The Italians, left without either Pope or Emperor, were free to
pursue their course of internal development, and to prosecute their quarrels among themselves.
But though the names of Guelf and Ghibelline lost their old significance after the year 1266
(the date of King Manfred's death), these two factions had so divided Italy that they continued
to play a prominent part in her annals. Guelf still meant constitutional autonomy, meant the
burgher as against the noble, meant industry as opposed to feudal lordship. Ghibelline meant
the rule of the few over the many, meant tyranny, meant the interest of the noble as against
the merchant and the citizen. These broad distinctions must be borne in mind, if we seek to
understand how it was that a city like Florence continued to be governed by parties, the European
force of which had passed away.

II

Florence first rose into importance during the papacy of Innocent III. Up to this date she
had been a town of second-rate distinction even in Tuscany. Pisa was more powerful by arms
and commerce. Lucca was the old seat of the dukes and marquises of Tuscany. But between the
years 1200 and 1250 Florence assumed the place she was to hold thenceforward, by heading the
league of Tuscan cities formed to support the Guelf party against the Ghibellines. Formally
adopting the Guelf cause, the Florentines made themselves the champions of municipal liberty
in Central Italy; and while they declared war against the Ghibelline cities, they endeavoured
to stamp out the very name of noble in their State. It is not needful to describe the varying
fortunes of the Guelfs and Ghibellines, the burghers and the nobles, during the thirteenth
and the first half of the fourteenth centuries. Suffice it to say that through all the vicissitudes
of that stormy period the name Guelf became more and more associated with republican freedom
in Florence. At last, after the final triumph of that party in 1253, the Guelfs remained victors
in the city. Associating the glory of their independence with Guelf principles, the citizens
of Florence perpetuated within their State a faction that, in its turn, was destined to prove
perilous to liberty.

When it became clear that the republic was to rule itself henceforth untrammelled by imperial
interference, the people divided themselves into six districts, and chose for each district
two Ancients, who administered the government in concert with the Potestà and the Captain of
the People. The Ancients were a relic of the old Roman municipal organisation. The Potestà
who was invariably a noble foreigner selected by the people, represented the extinct imperial
right, and exercised the power of life and death within the city. The Captain of the People,
who was also a foreigner, headed the burghers in their military capacity, for at that period
the troops were levied from the citizens themselves in twenty companies. The body of the citizens,
or the popolo, were ultimately sovereigns in the State. Assembled under the banners of their
several companies, they formed a parlamento for delegating their own power to each successive
government. Their representatives, again, arranged in two councils, called the Council of the
People and the Council of the Commune, under the presidency of the Captain of the People and
the Potestà, ratified the measures which had previously been proposed and carried by the executive
authority or Signoria. Under this simple State system the Florentines placed themselves at
the head of the Tuscan League, fought the battles of the Church, asserted their sovereignty
by issuing the golden florin of the republic, and flourished until 1266.

III

In that year an important change was effected in the Constitution. The whole population of
Florence consisted, on the one hand, of nobles or Grandi, as they were called in Tuscany, and
on the other hand of working people. The latter, divided into traders and handicraftsmen, were
distributed in guilds called Arti; and at that time there were seven Greater and five Lesser
Arti, the most influential of all being the Guild of the Wool Merchants. These guilds had their
halls for meeting, their colleges of chief officers, their heads, called Consoli or Priors,
and their flags. In 1266 it was decided that the administration of the commonwealth should
be placed simply and wholly in the hands of the Arti, and the Priors of these industrial companies
became the lords or Signory of Florence. No inhabitant of the city who had not enrolled himself
as a craftsman in one of the guilds could exercise any function of burghership. To be scioperato,
or without industry, was to be without power, without rank or place of honour in the State.
The revolution which placed the Arts at the head of the republic had the practical effect of
excluding the Grandi altogether from the government. Violent efforts were made by these noble
families, potent through their territorial possessions and foreign connections, and trained
from boyhood in the use of arms, to recover the place from which the new laws thrust them:
but their menacing attitude, instead of intimidating the burghers, roused their anger and drove
them to the passing of still more stringent laws. In 1293, after the Ghibellines had been defeated
in the great battle of Campaldino, a series of severe enactments, called the Ordinances of
Justice, were decreed against the unruly Grandi. All civic rights were taken from them; the
severest penalties were attached to their slightest infringement of municipal law; their titles
to land were limited; the privilege of living within the city walls was allowed them only under
galling restrictions; and, last not least, a supreme magistrate, named the Gonfalonier of Justice,
was created for the special purpose of watching them and carrying out the penal code against
them. Henceforward Florence was governed exclusively by merchants and artisans. The Grandi
hastened to enrol themselves in the guilds, exchanging their former titles and dignities for
the solid privilege of burghership. The exact parallel to this industrial constitution for
a commonwealth, carrying on wars with emperors and princes, holding haughty captains in its
pay, and dictating laws to subject cities, cannot, I think, be elsewhere found in history.
It is as unique as the Florence of Dante and Giotto is unique. While the people was guarding
itself thus stringently against the Grandi, a separate body was created for the special purpose
of extirpating the Ghibellines. A permanent committee of vigilance, called the College or the
Captains of the Guelf Party, was established. It was their function to administer the forfeited
possessions of Ghibelline rebels, to hunt out suspected citizens, to prosecute them for Ghibellinism,
to judge them, and to punish them as traitors to the commonwealth. This body, like a little
State within the State, proved formidable to the republic itself through the unlimited and
undefined sway it exercised over burghers whom it chose to tax with treason. In course of time
it became the oligarchical element within the Florentine democracy, and threatened to change
the free constitution of the city into a government conducted by a few powerful families.

There is no need to dwell in detail on the internal difficulties of Florence during the first
half of the fourteenth century. Two main circumstances, however, require to be briefly noticed.
These are (i) the contest of the Blacks and Whites, so famous through the part played in it
by Dante; and (ii) the tyranny of the Duke[1] of Athens, Walter de Brienne. The feuds of the
Blacks and Whites broke up the city into factions, and produced such anarchy that at last it
was found necessary to place the republic under the protection of foreign potentates. Charles
of Valois was first chosen, and after him the Duke of Athens, who took up his residence in
the city. Entrusted with dictatorial authority, he used his power to form a military despotism.
Though his reign of violence lasted rather less than a year, it bore important fruits; for
the tyrant, seeking to support himself upon the favour of the common people, gave political
power to the Lesser Arts at the expense of the Greater, and confused the old State-system by
enlarging the democracy. The net result of these events for Florence was, first, that the city
became habituated to rancorous party-strife, involving exiles and proscriptions; and, secondly,
that it lost its primitive social hierarchy of classes.

IV

After the Guelfs had conquered the Ghibellines, and the people had absorbed the Grandi in their
guilds, the next chapter in the troubled history of Florence was the division of the Popolo
against itself. Civil strife now declared itself as a conflict between labour and capital.
The members of the Lesser Arts, craftsmen who plied trades subordinate to those of the Greater
Arts, rose up against their social and political superiors, demanding a larger share in the
government, a more equal distribution of profits, higher wages, and privileges that should
place them on an absolute equality with the wealthy merchants. It was in the year 1378 that
the proletariate broke out into rebellion. Previous events had prepared the way for this revolt.
First of all, the republic had been democratised through the destruction of the Grandi and
through the popular policy pursued to gain his own ends by the Duke of Athens. Secondly, society
had been shaken to its very foundation by the great plague of 1348. Both Boccaccio and Matteo
Villani draw lively pictures of the relaxed morality and loss of order consequent upon this
terrible disaster; nor had thirty years sufficed to restore their relative position to grades
and ranks confounded by an overwhelming calamity. We may therefore reckon the great plague
of 1348 among the causes which produced the anarchy of 1378. Rising in a mass to claim their
privileges, the artisans ejected the Signory from the Public Palace, and for awhile Florence
was at the mercy of the mob. It is worthy of notice that the Medici, whose name is scarcely
known before this epoch, now came for one moment to the front. Salvestro de' Medici was Gonfalonier
of Justice at the time when the tumult first broke out. He followed the faction of the handicraftsmen,
and became the hero of the day. I cannot discover that he did more than extend a sort of passive
protection to their cause. Yet there is no doubt that the attachment of the working classes
to the House of Medici dates from this period. The rebellion of 1378 is known in Florentine
history as the Tumult of the Ciompi. The name Ciompi strictly means the Wool-Carders. One set
of operatives in the city, and that the largest, gave its title to the whole body of the labourers.
For some months these craftsmen governed the republic, appointing their own Signory and passing
laws in their own interest; but, as is usual, the proletariate found itself incapable of sustained
government. The ambition and discontent of the Ciompi foamed themselves away, and industrious
working men began to see that trade was languishing and credit on the wane. By their own act
at last they restored the government to the Priors of the Greater Arti. Still the movement
had not been without grave consequences. It completed the levelling of classes, which had been
steadily advancing from the first in Florence. After the Ciompi riot there was no longer not
only any distinction between noble and burgher, but the distinction between greater and lesser
guilds was practically swept away. The classes, parties, and degrees in the republic were so
broken up, ground down, and mingled, that thenceforth the true source of power in the State
was wealth combined with personal ability. In other words, the proper political conditions
had been formed for unscrupulous adventurers. Florence had become a democracy without social
organisation, which might fall a prey to oligarchs or despots. What remained of deeply rooted
feuds or factions--animosities against the Grandi, hatred for the Ghibellines, jealousy of
labour and capital--offered so many points of leverage for stirring the passions of the people
and for covering personal ambition with a cloak of public zeal. The time was come for the Albizzi
to attempt an oligarchy, and for the Medici to begin the enslavement of the State.

V

The Constitution of Florence offered many points of weakness to the attacks of such intriguers.
In the first place it was in its origin not a political but an industrial organisation--a simple
group of guilds invested with the sovereign authority. Its two most powerful engines, the Gonfalonier
of Justice and the Guelf College, had been formed, not with a view to the preservation of the
government, but with the purpose of quelling the nobles and excluding a detested faction. It
had no permanent head, like the Doge of Venice; no fixed senate like the Venetian Grand Council;
its chief magistrates, the Signory, were elected for short periods of two months, and their
mode of election was open to the gravest criticism. Supposed to be chosen by lot, they were
really selected from lists drawn up by the factions in power from time to time. These factions
contrived to exclude the names of all but their adherents from the bags, or borse, in which
the burghers eligible for election had to be inscribed. Furthermore, it was not possible for
this shifting Signory to conduct affairs requiring sustained effort and secret deliberation;
therefore recourse was being continually had to dictatorial Commissions. The people, summoned
in parliament upon the Great Square, were asked to confer plenipotentiary authority upon a
committee called Balia, who proceeded to do what they chose in the State, and who retained
power after the emergency for which they were created passed away. The same instability in
the supreme magistracy led to the appointment of special commissioners for war, and special
councils, or Pratiche, for the management of each department. Such supplementary commissions
not only proved the weakness of the central authority, but they were always liable to be made
the instruments of party warfare. The Guelf College was another and a different source of danger
to the State. Not acting under the control of the Signory, but using its own initiative, this
powerful body could proscribe and punish burghers on the mere suspicion of Ghibellinism. Though
the Ghibelline faction had become an empty name, the Guelf College excluded from the franchise
all and every whom they chose on any pretext to admonish. Under this mild phrase, to admonish,
was concealed a cruel exercise of tyranny--it meant to warn a man that he was suspected of
treason, and that he had better relinquish the exercise of his burghership. By free use of
this engine of Admonition, the Guelf College rendered their enemies voiceless in the State,
and were able to pack the Signory and the councils with their own creatures. Another important
defect in the Florentine Constitution was the method of imposing taxes. This was done by no
regular system. The party in power made what estimate it chose of a man's capacity to bear
taxation, and called upon him for extraordinary loans. In this way citizens were frequently
driven into bankruptcy and exile; and since to be a debtor to the State deprived a burgher
of his civic rights, severe taxation was one of the best ways of silencing and neutralising
a dissentient.

I have enumerated these several causes of weakness in the Florentine State-system, partly because
they show how irregularly the Constitution had been formed by the patching and extension of
a simple industrial machine to suit the needs of a great commonwealth; partly because it was
through these defects that the democracy merged gradually into a despotism. The art of the
Medici consisted in a scientific comprehension of these very imperfections, a methodic use
of them for their own purposes, and a steady opposition to any attempts made to substitute
a stricter system. The Florentines had determined to be an industrial community, governing
themselves on the co-operative principle, dividing profits, sharing losses, and exposing their
magistrates to rigid scrutiny. All this in theory was excellent. Had they remained an unambitious
and peaceful commonwealth, engaged in the wool and silk trade, it might have answered. Modern
Europe might have admired the model of a communistic and commercial democracy. But when they
engaged in aggressive wars, and sought to enslave sister-cities like Pisa and Lucca, it was
soon found that their simple trading constitution would not serve. They had to piece it out
with subordinate machinery, cumbrous, difficult to manage, ill-adapted to the original structure.
Each limb of this subordinate machinery, moreover, was a point d'appui for insidious and self-seeking
party leaders.

Florence, in the middle of the fourteenth century, was a vast beehive of industry. Distinctions
of rank among burghers, qualified to vote and hold office, were theoretically unknown. Highly
educated men, of more than princely wealth, spent their time in shops and counting-houses,
and trained their sons to follow trades. Military service at this period was abandoned by the
citizens; they preferred to pay mercenary troops for the conduct of their wars. Nor was there,
as in Venice, any outlet for their energies upon the seas. Florence had no navy, no great port--she
only kept a small fleet for the protection of her commerce. Thus the vigour of the commonwealth
was concentrated on itself; while the influence of the citizens, through their affiliated trading-houses,
correspondents, and agents, extended like a network over Europe. In a community of this kind
it was natural that wealth--rank and titles being absent--should alone confer distinction.
Accordingly we find that out of the very bosom of the people a new plutocratic aristocracy
begins to rise. The Grandi are no more; but certain families achieve distinction by their riches,
their numbers, their high spirit, and their ancient place of honour in the State. These nobles
of the purse obtained the name of Popolani Nobili; and it was they who now began to play at
high stakes for the supreme power. In all the subsequent vicissitudes of Florence every change
takes place by intrigue and by clever manipulation of the political machine. Recourse is rarely
had to violence of any kind, and the leaders of revolutions are men of the yard-measure, never
of the sword. The despotism to which the republic eventually succumbed was no less commercial
than the democracy had been. Florence in the days of her slavery remained a Popolo.

VI

The opening of the second half of the fourteenth century had been signalised by the feuds of
two great houses, both risen from the people. These were the Albizzi and the Ricci. At this
epoch there had been a formal closing of the lists of burghers;--henceforth no new families
who might settle in the city could claim the franchise, vote in the assemblies, or hold magistracies.
The Guelf College used their old engine of admonition to persecute novi homines, whom they
dreaded as opponents. At the head of this formidable organisation the Albizzi placed themselves,
and worked it with such skill that they succeeded in driving the Ricci out of all participation
in the government. The tumult of the Ciompi formed but an episode in their career toward oligarchy;
indeed, that revolution only rendered the political material of the Florentine republic more
plastic in the hands of intriguers, by removing the last vestiges of class distinctions and
by confusing the old parties of the State.

When the Florentines in 1387 engaged in their long duel with Gian Galeazzo Visconti, the difficulty
of conducting this war without some permanent central authority still further confirmed the
power of the rising oligarchs. The Albizzi became daily more autocratic, until in 1393 their
chief, Maso degli Albizzi, a man of strong will and prudent policy, was chosen Gonfalonier
of Justice. Assuming the sway of a dictator he revised the list of burghers capable of holding
office, struck out the private opponents of his house, and excluded all names but those of
powerful families who were well affected towards an aristocratic government. The great house
of the Alberti were exiled in a body, declared rebels, and deprived of their possessions, for
no reason except that they seemed dangerous to the Albizzi. It was in vain that the people
murmured against these arbitrary acts. The new rulers were omnipotent in the Signory, which
they packed with their own men, in the great guilds, and in the Guelf College. All the machinery
invented by the industrial community for its self-management and self-defence was controlled
and manipulated by a close body of aristocrats, with the Albizzi at their head. It seemed as
though Florence, without any visible alteration in her forms of government, was rapidly becoming
an oligarchy even less open than the Venetian republic. Meanwhile the affairs of the State
were most flourishing. The strong-handed masters of the city not only held the Duke of Milan
in check, and prevented him from turning Italy into a kingdom; they furthermore acquired the
cities of Pisa, Livorno, Arezzo, Montepulciano, and Cortona, for Florence, making her the mistress
of all Tuscany, with the exception of Siena, Lucca, and Volterra. Maso degli Albizzi was the
ruling spirit of the commonwealth, spending the enormous sum of 11,500,000 golden florins on
war, raising sumptuous edifices, protecting the arts, and acting in general like a powerful
and irresponsible prince.

In spite of public prosperity there were signs, however, that this rule of a few families could
not last. Their government was only maintained by continual revision of the lists of burghers,
by elimination of the disaffected, and by unremitting personal industry. They introduced no
new machinery into the Constitution whereby the people might be deprived of its titular sovereignty,
or their own dictatorship might be continued with a semblance of legality. Again, they neglected
to win over the new nobles (nobili popolani) in a body to their cause; and thus they were surrounded
by rivals ready to spring upon them when a false step should be made. The Albizzi oligarchy
was a masterpiece of art, without any force to sustain it but the craft and energy of its constructors.
It had not grown up, like the Venetian oligarchy, by the gradual assimilation to itself of
all the vigour in the State. It was bound, sooner or later, to yield to the renascent impulse
of democracy inherent in Florentine institutions.

VII

Maso degli Albizzi died in 1417. He was succeeded in the government by his old friend, Niccolo
da Uzzano, a man of great eloquence and wisdom, whose single word swayed the councils of the
people as he listed. Together with him acted Maso's son, Rinaldo, a youth of even more brilliant
talents than his father, frank, noble, and high-spirited, but far less cautious.

The oligarchy, which these two men undertook to manage, had accumulated against itself the
discontent of overtaxed, disfranchised, jealous burghers. The times, too, were bad. Pursuing
the policy of Maso, the Albizzi engaged the city in a tedious and unsuccessful war with Filippo
Maria Visconti, which cost 350,000 golden florins, and brought no credit. In order to meet
extraordinary expenses they raised new public loans, thereby depreciating the value of the
old Florentine funds. "What was worse, they imposed forced subsidies with grievous inequality
upon the burghers, passing over their friends and adherents, and burdening their opponents
with more than could be borne. This imprudent financial policy began the ruin of the Albizzi.
It caused a clamour in the city for a new system of more just taxation, which was too powerful
to be resisted. The voice of the people made itself loudly heard; and with the people on this
occasion sided Giovanni de' Medici. This was in 1427.

It is here that the Medici appear upon that memorable scene where in the future they are to
play the first part. Giovanni de' Medici did not belong to the same branch of his family as
the Salvestro who favoured the people at the time of the Ciompi Tumult. But he adopted the
same popular policy. To his sons Cosimo and Lorenzo he bequeathed on his deathbed the rule
that they should invariably adhere to the cause of the multitude, found their influence on
that, and avoid the arts of factious and ambitious leaders. In his own life he had pursued
this course of conduct, acquiring a reputation for civic moderation and impartiality that endeared
him to the people and stood his children in good stead. Early in his youth Giovanni found himself
almost destitute by reason of the imposts charged upon him by the oligarchs. He possessed,
however, the genius for money-making to a rare degree, and passed his manhood as a banker,
amassing the largest fortune of any private citizen in Italy. In his old age he devoted himself
to the organisation of his colossal trading business, and abstained, as far as possible, from
political intrigues. Men observed that they rarely met him in the Public Palace or on the Great
Square.

Cosimo de' Medici was thirty years old when his father Giovanni died, in 1429. During his youth
he had devoted all his time and energy to business, mastering the complicated affairs of Giovanni's
banking-house, and travelling far and wide through Europe to extend its connections. This education
made him a consummate financier; and those who knew him best were convinced that his ambition
was set on great things. However quietly he might begin, it was clear that he intended to match
himself, as a leader of the plebeians, against the Albizzi. The foundations he prepared for
future action were equally characteristic of the man, of Florence, and of the age. Commanding
the enormous capital of the Medicean bank he contrived, at any sacrifice of temporary convenience,
to lend money to the State for war expenses, engrossing in his own hands a large portion of
the public debt of Florence. At the same time his agencies in various European capitals enabled
him to keep his own wealth floating far beyond the reach of foes within the city. A few years
of this system ended in so complete a confusion between Cosimo's trade and the finances of
Florence that the bankruptcy of the Medici, however caused, would have compromised the credit
of the State and the fortunes of the fund-holders. Cosimo, in a word, made himself necessary
to Florence by the wise use of his riches. Furthermore, he kept his eye upon the list of burghers,
lending money to needy citizens, putting good things in the way of struggling traders, building
up the fortunes of men who were disposed to favour his party in the State, ruining his opponents
by the legitimate process of commercial competition, and, when occasion offered, introducing
new voters into the Florentine Council by paying off the debts of those who were disqualified
by poverty from using the franchise. While his capital was continually increasing he lived
frugally, and employed his wealth solely for the consolidation of his political influence.
By these arts Cosimo became formidable to the oligarchs and beloved by the people. His supporters
were numerous, and held together by the bonds of immediate necessity or personal cupidity.
The plebeians and the merchants were all on his side. The Grandi and the Ammoniti, excluded
from the State by the practices of the Albizzi, had more to hope from the Medicean party than
from the few families who still contrived to hold the reins of government. It was clear that
a conflict to the death must soon commence between the oligarchy and this new faction.

VIII

At last, in 1433, war was declared. The first blow was struck by Rinaldo degli Albizzi, who
put himself in the wrong by attacking a citizen indispensable to the people at large, and guilty
of no unconstitutional act. On September 7th of that year, a year decisive for the future destinies
of Florence, he summoned Cosimo to the Public Palace, which he had previously occupied with
troops at his command. There he declared him a rebel to the State, and had him imprisoned in
a little square room in the central tower. The tocsin was sounded; the people were assembled
in parliament upon the piazza. The Albizzi held the main streets with armed men, and forced
the Florentines to place plenipotentiary power for the administration of the commonwealth at
this crisis in the hands of a Balia, or committee selected by themselves. It was always thus
that acts of high tyranny were effected in Florence. A show of legality was secured by gaining
the compulsory sanction of the people, driven by soldiery into the public square, and hastily
ordered to recognise the authority of their oppressors.

The bill of indictment against the Medici accused them of sedition in the year 1378--that is,
in the year of the Ciompi Tumult--and of treasonable practice during the whole course of the
Albizzi administration. It also strove to fix upon them the odium of the unsuccessful war against
the town of Lucca. As soon as the Albizzi had unmasked their batteries, Lorenzo de' Medici
managed to escape from the city, and took with him his brother Cosimo's children to Venice.
Cosimo remained shut up within the little room called Barberia in Arnolfo's tower. From that
high eagle's nest the sight can range Valdarno far and wide. Florence with her towers and domes
lies below; and the blue peaks of Carrara close a prospect westward than which, with its villa-jewelled
slopes and fertile gardens, there is nought more beautiful upon the face of earth. The prisoner
can have paid but little heed to this fair landscape. He heard the frequent ringing of the
great bell that called the Florentines to council, the tramp of armed men on the piazza, the
coming and going of the burghers in the palace halls beneath. On all sides lurked anxiety and
fear of death. Each mouthful he tasted might be poisoned. For many days he partook of only
bread and water, till his gaoler restored his confidence by sharing all his meals. In this
peril he abode twenty-four days. The Albizzi, in concert with the Balia they had formed, were
consulting what they might venture to do with him. Some voted for his execution. Others feared
the popular favour, and thought that if they killed Cosimo this act would ruin their own power.
The nobler natures among them determined to proceed by constitutional measures. At last, upon
September 29th, it was settled that Cosimo should be exiled to Padua for ten years. The Medici
were declared Grandi, by way of excluding them from political rights. But their property remained
untouched; and on October 3rd, Cosimo was released.

On the same day Cosimo took his departure. His journey northward resembled a triumphant progress.
He left Florence a simple burgher; he entered Venice a powerful prince. Though the Albizzi
seemed to have gained the day, they had really cut away the ground beneath their feet. They
committed the fatal mistake of doing both too much and too little--too much because they declared
war against an innocent man, and roused the sympathies of the whole people in his behalf; too
little, because they had not the nerve to complete their act by killing him outright and extirpating
his party. Machiavelli, in one of his profoundest and most cynical critiques, remarks that
few men know how to be thoroughly bad with honour to themselves. Their will is evil; but the
grain of good in them--some fear of public opinion, some repugnance to committing a signal
crime--paralyses their arm at the moment when it ought to have been raised to strike. He instances
Gian Paolo Baglioni's omission to murder Julius II., when that Pope placed himself within his
clutches at Perugia. He might also have instanced Rinaldo degli Albizzi's refusal to push things
to extremities by murdering Cosimo. It was the combination of despotic violence in the exile
of Cosimo with constitutional moderation in the preservation of his life, that betrayed the
weakness of the oligarchs and restored confidence to the Medicean party.

IX

In the course of the year 1434 this party began to hold up its head. Powerful as the Albizzi
were, they only retained the government by artifice; and now they had done a deed which put
at nought their former arts and intrigues. A Signory favourable to the Medici came into office,
and on September 26th, 1434, Rinaldo in his turn was summoned to the palace and declared a
rebel. He strove to raise the forces of his party, and entered the piazza at the head of eight
hundred men. The menacing attitude of the people, however, made resistance perilous. Rinaldo
disbanded his troops, and placed himself under the protection of Pope Eugenius IV., who was
then resident in Florence. This act of submission proved that Rinaldo had not the courage or
the cruelty to try the chance of civil war. Whatever his motives may have been, he lost his
hold upon the State beyond recovery. On September 29th, a new parliament was summoned; on October
2nd, Cosimo was recalled from exile and the Albizzi were banished. The intercession of the
Pope procured for them nothing but the liberty to leave Florence unmolested. Einaldo turned
his back upon the city he had governed, never to set foot in it again. On October 6th, Cosimo,
having passed through Padua, Ferrara, and Modena like a conqueror, reentered the town amid
the plaudits of the people, and took up his dwelling as an honoured guest in the Palace of
the Republic. The subsequent history of Florence is the history of his family. In after years
the Medici loved to remember this return of Cosimo. His triumphal reception was painted in
fresco on the walls of their villa at Cajano under the transparent allegory of Cicero's entrance
into Rome.

X

By their brief exile the Medici had gained the credit of injured innocence, the fame of martyrdom
in the popular cause. Their foes had struck the first blow, and in striking at them had seemed
to aim against the liberties of the republic. The mere failure of their adversaries to hold
the power they had acquired, handed over this power to the Medici; and the reprisals which
the Medici began to take had the show of justice, not of personal hatred, or petty vengeance.
Cosimo was a true Florentine. He disliked violence, because he knew that blood spilt cries
for blood. His passions, too, were cool and temperate. No gust of anger, no intoxication of
success, destroyed his balance. His one object, the consolidation of power for his family on
the basis of popular favour, was kept steadily in view; and he would do nothing that might
compromise that end. Yet he was neither generous nor merciful. We therefore find that from
the first moment of his return to Florence he instituted a system of pitiless and unforgiving
persecution against his old opponents. The Albizzi were banished, root and branch, with all
their followers, consigned to lonely and often to unwholesome stations through the length and
breadth of Italy. If they broke the bonds assigned them, they were forthwith declared traitors
and their property was confiscated. After a long series of years, by merely keeping in force
the first sentence pronounced upon them, Cosimo had the cruel satisfaction of seeing the whole
of that proud oligarchy die out by slow degrees in the insufferable tedium of solitude and
exile. Even the high-souled Palla degli Strozzi, who had striven to remain neutral, and whose
wealth and talents were devoted to the revival of classical studies, was proscribed because
to Cosimo he seemed too powerful. Separated from his children, he died in banishment at Padua.
In this way the return of the Medici involved the loss to Florence of some noble citizens,
who might perchance have checked the Medicean tyranny if they had stayed to guide the State.
The plebeians, raised to wealth and influence by Cosimo before his exile, now took the lead
in the republic. He used these men as catspaws, rarely putting himself forward or allowing
his own name to appear, but pulling the wires of government in privacy by means of intermediate
agents. The Medicean party was called at first Puccini from a certain Puccio, whose name was
better known in caucus or committee than that of his real master.

To rule through these creatures of his own making taxed all the ingenuity of Cosimo; but his
profound and subtle intellect was suited to the task, and he found unlimited pleasure in the
exercise of his consummate craft. We have already seen to what extent he used his riches for
the acquisition of political influence. Now that he had come to power, he continued the same
method, packing the Signory and the Councils with men whom he could hold by debt between his
thumb and finger. His command of the public moneys enabled him to wink at peculation in State
offices; it was part of his system to bind magistrates and secretaries to his interest by their
consciousness of guilt condoned but not forgotten. Not a few, moreover, owed their living to
the appointments he procured for them. While he thus controlled the wheel-work of the commonwealth
by means of organised corruption, he borrowed the arts of his old enemies to oppress dissentient
citizens. If a man took an independent line in voting, and refused allegiance to the Medicean
party, he was marked out for persecution. No violence was used; but he found himself hampered
in his commerce--money, plentiful for others, became scarce for him; his competitors in trade
were subsidised to undersell him. And while the avenues of industry were closed, his fortune
was taxed above its value, until he had to sell at a loss in order to discharge his public
obligations. In the first twenty years of the Medicean rule, seventy families had to pay 4,875,000
golden florins of extraordinary imposts, fixed by arbitrary assessment.

The more patriotic members of his party looked with dread and loathing on this system of corruption
and exclusion. To their remonstrances Cosimo replied in four memorable sayings: 'Better the
State spoiled than the State not ours.' 'Governments cannot be carried on with paternosters.'
'An ell of scarlet makes a burgher.' 'I aim at finite ends.' These maxims represent the whole
man,--first, in his egotism, eager to gain Florence for his family, at any risk of her ruin;
secondly, in his cynical acceptance of base means to selfish ends; thirdly, in his bourgeois
belief that money makes a man, and fine clothes suffice for a citizen; fourthly, in his worldly
ambition bent on positive success. It was, in fact, his policy to reduce Florence to the condition
of a rotten borough: nor did this policy fail. One notable sign of the influence he exercised
was the change which now came over the foreign relations of the republic. Up to the date of
his dictatorship Florence had uniformly fought the battle of freedom in Italy. It was the chief
merit of the Albizzi oligarchy that they continued the traditions of the mediæval State, and
by their vigorous action checked the growth of the Visconti. Though they engrossed the government
they never forgot that they were first of all things Florentines, and only in the second place
men who owed their power and influence to office. In a word, they acted like patriotic Tories,
like republican patricians. Therefore they would not ally themselves with tyrants or countenance
the enslavement of free cities by armed despots. Their subjugation of the Tuscan burghs to
Florence was itself part of a grand republican policy. Cosimo changed all this. When the Visconti
dynasty ended by the death of Filippo Maria in 1447, there was a chance of restoring the independence
of Lombardy. Milan in effect declared herself a republic, and by the aid of Florence she might
at this moment have maintained her liberty. Cosimo, however, entered into treaty with Francesco
Sforza, supplied him with money, guaranteed him against Florentine interference, and saw with
satisfaction how he reduced the duchy to his military tyranny. The Medici were conscious that
they, selfishly, had most to gain by supporting despots who in time of need might help them
to confirm their own authority. With the same end in view, when the legitimate line of the
Bentivogli was extinguished, Cosimo hunted out a bastard pretender of that family, presented
him to the chiefs of the Bentivogli faction, and had him placed upon the seat of his supposed
ancestors at Bologna. This young man, a certain Santi da Cascese, presumed to be the son of
Ercole de' Bentivogli, was an artisan in a wool factory when Cosimo set eyes upon him. At first
Santi refused the dangerous honour of governing a proud republic; but the intrigues of Cosimo
prevailed, and the obscure craftsman ended his days a powerful prince.

By the arts I have attempted to describe, Cosimo in the course of his long life absorbed the
forces of the republic into himself. While he shunned the external signs of despotic power
he made himself the master of the State. His complexion was of a pale olive; his stature short;
abstemious and simple in his habits, affable in conversation, sparing of speech, he knew how
to combine that burgher-like civility for which the Romans praised Augustus, with the reality
of a despotism all the more difficult to combat because it seemed nowhere and was everywhere.
When he died, at the age of seventy-five, in 1464, the people whom he had enslaved, but whom
he had neither injured nor insulted, honoured him with the title of Pater Patriæ. This was
inscribed upon his tomb in S. Lorenzo. He left to posterity the fame of a great and generous
patron,[14] the infamy of a cynical, self-seeking, bourgeois tyrant. Such combinations of contradictory
qualities were common enough at the time of the Renaissance. Did not Machiavelli spend his
days in tavern-brawls and low amours, his nights among the mighty spirits of the dead, with
whom, when he had changed his country suit of homespun for the habit of the Court, he found
himself an honoured equal?

XI

Cosimo had shown consummate skill by governing Florence through a party created and raised
to influence by himself. The jealousy of these adherents formed the chief difficulty with which
his son Piero had to contend. Unless the Medici could manage to kick down the ladder whereby
they had risen, they ran the risk of losing all. As on a former occasion, so now they profited
by the mistakes of their antagonists. Three chief men of their own party, Diotisalvi Neroni,
Agnolo Acciaiuoli, and Luca Pitti, determined to shake off the yoke of their masters, and to
repay the Medici for what they owed by leading them to ruin. Niccolo Soderini, a patriot, indignant
at the slow enslavement of his country, joined them. At first they strove to undermine the
credit of the Medici with the Florentines by inducing Piero to call in the moneys placed at
interest by his father in the hands of private citizens. This act was unpopular; but it did
not suffice to move a revolution. To proceed by constitutional measures against the Medici
was judged impolitic. Therefore the conspirators decided to take, if possible, Piero's life.
The plot failed, chiefly owing to the coolness and the cunning of the young Lorenzo, Piero's
eldest son. Public sympathy was strongly excited against the aggressors. Neroni, Acciaiuoli,
and Soderini were exiled. Pitti was allowed to stay, dishonoured, powerless, and penniless,
in Florence. Meanwhile, the failure of their foes had only served to strengthen the position
of the Medici. The ladder had saved them the trouble of kicking it down.

The congratulations addressed on this occasion to Piero and Lorenzo by the ruling powers of
Italy show that the Medici were already regarded as princes outside Florence. Lorenzo and Giuliano,
the two sons of Piero, travelled abroad to the Courts of Milan and Ferrara with the style and
state of more than simple citizens. At home they occupied the first place on all occasions
of public ceremony, receiving royal visitors on terms of equality, and performing the hospitalities
of the republic like men who had been born to represent its dignities. Lorenzo's marriage to
Clarice Orsini, of the noble Roman house, was another sign that the Medici were advancing on
the way toward despotism. Cosimo had avoided foreign alliances for his children. His descendants
now judged themselves firmly planted enough to risk the odium of a princely match for the sake
of the support outside the city they might win.

XII

Piero de' Medici died in December 1469. His son Lorenzo was then barely twenty-two years of
age. The chiefs of the Medicean party, all-powerful in the State, held a council, in which
they resolved to place him in the same position as his father and grandfather. This resolve
seems to have been formed after mature deliberation, on the ground that the existing conditions
of Italian politics rendered it impossible to conduct the government without a presidential
head. Florence, though still a democracy, required a permanent chief to treat on an equality
with the princes of the leading cities. Here we may note the prudence of Cosimo's foreign policy.
When he helped to establish despots in Milan and Bologna he was rendering the presidency of
his own family in Florence necessary.

Lorenzo, having received this invitation, called attention to his youth and inexperience. Yet
he did not refuse it; and, after a graceful display of diffidence, he accepted the charge,
entering thus upon that famous political career, in the course of which he not only established
and maintained a balance of power in Italy, with Florence for the central city, but also contrived
to remodel the government of the republic in the interest of his own family and to strengthen
the Medici by relations with the Papal See.

The extraordinary versatility of this man's intellectual and social gifts, his participation
in all the literary and philosophical interests of his century, his large and liberal patronage
of art, and the gaiety with which he joined the people of Florence in their pastimes--Mayday
games and Carnival festivities--strengthened his hold upon the city in an age devoted to culture
and refined pleasure. Whatever was most brilliant in the spirit of the Italian Benaissance
seemed to be incarnate in Lorenzo. Not merely as a patron and a dilettante, but as a poet and
a critic, a philosopher and scholar, he proved himself adequate to the varied intellectual
ambitions of his country. Penetrated with the passion for erudition which distinguished Florence
in the fifteenth century, familiar with her painters and her sculptors, deeply read in the
works of her great poets, he conceived the ideal of infusing the spirit of antique civility
into modern life, and of effecting for society what the artists were performing in their own
sphere. To preserve the native character of the Florentine genius, while he added the grace
of classic form, was the aim to which his tastes and instincts led him. At the same time, while
he made himself the master of Florentine revels and the Augustus of Renaissance literature,
he took care that beneath his carnival masks and ball-dress should be concealed the chains
which he was forging for the republic.

What he lacked, with so much mental brilliancy, was moral greatness. The age he lived in was
an age of selfish despots, treacherous generals, godless priests. It was an age of intellectual
vigour and artistic creativeness; but it was also an age of mean ambition, sordid policy, and
vitiated principles. Lorenzo remained true in all respects to the genius of this age: true
to its enthusiasm for antique culture, true to its passion for art, true to its refined love
of pleasure; but true also to its petty political intrigues, to its cynical selfishness, to
its lack of heroism. For Florence he looked no higher and saw no further than Cosimo had done.
If culture was his pastime, the enslavement of the city by bribery and corruption was the hard
work of his manhood. As is the case with much Renaissance art, his life was worth more for
its decorative detail than for its constructive design. In richness, versatility, variety,
and exquisiteness of execution, it left little to be desired; yet, viewed at a distance, and
as a whole, it does not inspire us with a sense of architectonic majesty.

XIII

Lorenzo's chief difficulties arose from the necessity under which, like Cosimo, he laboured
of governing the city through its old institutions by means of a party. To keep the members
of this party in good temper, and to gain their approval for the alterations he effected in
the State machinery of Florence, was the problem of his life. The successful solution of this
problem was easier now, after two generations of the Medicean ascendency, than it had been
at first. Meanwhile the people were maintained in good humour by public shows, ease, plenty,
and a general laxity of discipline. The splendour of Lorenzo's foreign alliances and the consideration
he received from all the Courts of Italy contributed in no small measure to his popularity
and security at home. By using his authority over Florence to inspire respect abroad, and by
using his foreign credit to impose upon the burghers, Lorenzo displayed the tact of a true
Italian diplomatist. His genius for statecraft, as then understood, was indeed of a rare order,
equally adapted to the conduct of a complicated foreign policy and to the control of a suspicious
and variable Commonwealth. In one point alone he was inferior to his grandfather. He neglected
commerce, and allowed his banking business to fall into disorder so hopeless that in course
of time he ceased to be solvent. Meanwhile his personal expenses, both as a prince in his own
palace, and as the representative of majesty in Florence, continually increased. The bankruptcy
of the Medici, it had long been foreseen, would involve the public finances in serious confusion.
And now, in order to retrieve his fortunes, Lorenzo was not only obliged to repudiate his debts
to the exchequer, but had also to gain complete disposal of the State purse. It was this necessity
that drove him to effect the constitutional revolution of 1480, by which he substituted a Privy
Council of seventy members for the old Councils of the State, absorbing the chief functions
of the commonwealth into this single body, whom he practically nominated at pleasure. The same
want of money led to the great scandal of his reign--the plundering of the Monte delle Doti,
or State Insurance Office Fund for securing dowers to the children of its creditors.

XIV

While tracing the salient points of Lorenzo de' Medici's administration I have omitted to mention
the important events which followed shortly after his accession to power in 1469. What happened
between that date and 1480 was not only decisive for the future fortunes of the Casa Medici,
but it was also eminently characteristic of the perils and the difficulties which beset Italian
despots. The year 1471 was signalised by a visit by the Duke Galeazzo Maria Sforza of Milan,
and his wife Bona of Savoy, to the Medici in Florence. They came attended by their whole Court--body
guards on horse and foot, ushers, pages, falconers, grooms, kennel-varlets, and huntsmen. Omitting
the mere baggage service, their train counted two thousand horses. To mention this incident
would be superfluous, had not so acute an observer as Machiavelli marked it out as a turning-point
in Florentine history. Now, for the first time, the democratic commonwealth saw its streets
filled with a mob of courtiers. Masques, balls, and tournaments succeeded each other with magnificent
variety; and all the arts of Florence were pressed into the service of these festivals. Machiavelli
says that the burghers lost the last remnant of their old austerity of manners, and became,
like the degenerate Romans, ready to obey the masters who provided them with brilliant spectacles.
They gazed with admiration on the pomp of Italian princes, their dissolute and godless living,
their luxury and prodigal expenditure; and when the Medici affected similar habits in the next
generation, the people had no courage to resist the invasion of their pleasant vices.

In the same year, 1471, Volterra was reconquered for the Florentines by Frederick of Urbino.
The honours of this victory, disgraced by a brutal sack of the conquered city, in violation
of its articles of capitulation, were reserved for Lorenzo, who returned in triumph to Florence.
More than ever he assumed the prince, and in his person undertook to represent the State.

In the same year, 1471, Francesco della Rovere was raised to the Papacy with the memorable
name of Sixtus IV. Sixtus was a man of violent temper and fierce passions, restless and impatiently
ambitious, bent on the aggrandisement of the beautiful and wanton youths, his nephews. Of these
the most aspiring was Girolamo Riario, for whom Sixtus bought the town of Imola from Taddeo
Manfredi, in order that he might possess the title of count and the nucleus of a tyranny in
the Romagna. This purchase thwarted the plans of Lorenzo, who wished to secure the same advantages
for Florence. Smarting with the sense of disappointment, he forbade the Roman banker, Francesco
Pazzi, to guarantee the purchase-money. By this act Lorenzo made two mortal foes--the Pope
and Francesco Pazzi. Francesco was a thin, pale, atrabilious fanatic, all nerve and passion,
with a monomaniac intensity of purpose, and a will inflamed and guided by imagination--a man
formed by nature for conspiracy, such a man, in fact, as Shakspere drew in Cassius. Maddened
by Lorenzo's prohibition, he conceived the notion of overthrowing the Medici in Florence by
a violent blow. Girolamo Riario entered into his views. So did Francesco Salviati, Archbishop
of Pisa, who had private reasons for hostility. These men found no difficulty in winning over
Sixtus to their plot; nor is it possible to purge the Pope of participation in what followed.
I need not describe by what means Francesco drew the other members of his family into the scheme,
and how he secured the assistance of armed cut-throats. Suffice it to say that the chief conspirators,
with the exception of the Count Girolamo, betook themselves to Florence, and there, after the
failure of other attempts, decided to murder Lorenzo and his brother Giuliano in the cathedral
on Sunday, April 26th, 1478. The moment when the priest at the high altar finished the mass,
was fixed for the assassination. Everything was ready. The conspirators, by Judas kisses and
embracements, had discovered that the young men wore no protective armour under their silken
doublets. Pacing the aisle behind the choir, they feared no treason. And now the lives of both
might easily have been secured, if at the last moment the courage of the hired assassins had
not failed them. Murder, they said, was well enough; but they could not bring themselves to
stab men before the newly consecrated body of Christ. In this extremity a priest was found
who, 'being accustomed to churches,' had no scruples. He and another reprobate were told off
to Lorenzo. Francesco de' Pazzi himself undertook Giuliano. The moment for attack arrived.
Francesco plunged his dagger into the heart of Giuliano. Then, not satisfied with this death-blow,
he struck again, and in his heat of passion wounded his own thigh. Lorenzo escaped with a flesh-wound
from the poniard of the priest, and rushed into the sacristy, where his friend Poliziano shut
and held the brazen door. The plot had failed; for Giuliano, of the two brothers, was the one
whom the conspirators would the more willingly have spared. The whole church was in an uproar.
The city rose in tumult. Rage and horror took possession of the people. They flew to the Palazzo
Pubblico and to the houses of the Pazzi, hunted the conspirators from place to place, hung
the archbishop by the neck from the palace windows, and, as they found fresh victims for their
fury, strung them one by one in a ghastly row at his side above the Square. About one hundred
in all were killed. None who had joined in the plot escaped; for Lorenzo had long arms, and
one man, who fled to Constantinople, was delivered over to his agents by the Sultan. Out of
the whole Pazzi family only Guglielmo, the husband of Bianca de' Medici, was spared. When the
tumult was over, Andrea del Castagno painted the portraits of the traitors head-downwards upon
the walls of the Bargello Palace, in order that all men might know what fate awaited the foes
of the Medici and of the State of Florence.[15] Meanwhile a bastard son of Giuliano's was received
into the Medicean household, to perpetuate his lineage. This child, named Giulio, was destined
to be famous in the annals of Italy and Florence under the title of Pope Clement VII.

XV

As is usual when such plots miss their mark, the passions excited redounded to the profit of
the injured party. The commonwealth felt that the blow struck at Lorenzo had been aimed at
their majesty. Sixtus, on the other hand, could not contain his rage at the failure of so ably
planned a coup de main. Ignoring that he had sanctioned the treason, that a priest had put
his hand to the dagger, that the impious deed had been attempted in a church before the very
Sacrament of Christ, whose vicar on earth he was, the Pope now excommunicated the republic.
The reason he alleged was, that the Florentines had dared to hang an archbishop.

Thus began a war to the death between Sixtus and Florence. The Pope inflamed the whole of Italy,
and carried on a ruinous campaign in Tuscany. It seemed as though the republic might lose her
subject cities, always ready to revolt when danger threatened the sovereign State. Lorenzo's
position became critical. Sixtus made no secret of the hatred he bore him personally, declaring
that he fought less with Florence than with the Medici. To support the odium of this long war
and this heavy interdict alone, was more than he could do. His allies forsook him. Naples was
enlisted on the Pope's side. Milan and the other States of Lombardy were occupied with their
own affairs, and held aloof. In this extremity he saw that nothing but a bold step could save
him. The league formed by Sixtus must be broken up at any risk, and, if possible, by his own
ability. On December 6th, 1479, Lorenzo left Florence, unarmed and unattended, took ship at
Leghorn, and proceeded to the court of the enemy, King Ferdinand, at Naples. Ferdinand was
a cruel and treacherous sovereign, who had murdered his guest, Jacopo Piccinino, at a banquet
given in his honour. But Ferdinand was the son of Alfonso, who, by address and eloquence, had
gained a kingdom from his foe and jailor, Filippo Maria Visconti. Lorenzo calculated that he
too, following Alfonso's policy, might prove to Ferdinand how little there was to gain from
an alliance with Rome, how much Naples and Florence, firmly united together for offence and
defence, might effect in Italy.

Only a student of those perilous times can appreciate the courage and the genius, the audacity
combined with diplomatic penetration, displayed by Lorenzo at this crisis. He calmly walked
into the lion's den, trusting he could tame the lion and teach it, and all in a few days. Nor
did his expectation fail. Though Lorenzo was rather ugly than handsome, with a dark skin, heavy
brows, powerful jaws, and nose sharp in the bridge and broad at the nostrils, without grace
of carriage or melody of voice, he possessed what makes up for personal defects--the winning
charm of eloquence in conversation, a subtle wit, profound knowledge of men, and tact allied
to sympathy, which placed him always at the centre of the situation. Ferdinand received him
kindly. The Neapolitan nobles admired his courage and were fascinated by his social talents.
On March 1st, 1480, he left Naples again, having won over the King by his arguments. When he
reached Florence he was able to declare that he brought home a treaty of peace and alliance
signed by the most powerful foe of the republic. The success of this bold enterprise endeared
Lorenzo more than ever to his countrymen. In the same year they concluded a treaty with Sixtus,
who was forced against his will to lay down arms by the capture of Otranto and the extreme
peril of Turkish invasion. After the year 1480 Lorenzo remained sole master in Florence, the
arbiter and peacemaker of the rest of Italy.

XVI

The conjuration of the Pazzi was only one in a long series of similar conspiracies. Italian
despots gained their power by violence and wielded it with craft. Violence and craft were therefore
used against them. When the study of the classics had penetrated the nation with antique ideas
of heroism, tyrannicide became a virtue. Princes were murdered with frightful frequency. Thus
Gian Maria Visconti was put to death at Milan in 1412; Galeazzo Maria Sforza in 1484; the Chiarelli
of Fabriano were massacred in 1435; the Baglioni of Perugia in 1500; Girolamo Gentile planned
the assassination of Galeazzo Sforza at Genoa in 1476; Niccolo d'Este conspired against his
uncle Ercole in 1476; Stefano Porcari attempted the life of Nicholas V. at Rome in 1453; Lodovico
Sforza narrowly escaped a violent death in 1453. I might multiply these instances beyond satiety.
As it is, I have selected but a few examples falling, all but one, within the second half of
the fifteenth century. Nearly all these attempts upon the lives of princes were made in church
during the celebration of sacred offices. There was no superfluity of naughtiness, no wilful
sacrilege, in this choice of an occasion. It only testified to the continual suspicion and
guarded watchfulness maintained by tyrants. To strike at them except in church was almost impossible.
Meanwhile the fate of the tyrannicides was uniform. Successful or not, they perished. Yet so
grievous was the pressure of Italian despotism, so glorious was the ideal of Greek and Roman
heroism, so passionate the temper of the people, that to kill a prince at any cost to self
appeared the crown of manliness. This bloodshed exercised a delirious fascination: pure and
base, personal and patriotic motives combined to add intensity of fixed and fiery purpose to
the murderous impulse. Those then who, like the Medici, aspired to tyranny and sought to found
a dynasty of princes, entered the arena against a host of unknown and unseen gladiators.

XVII

On his deathbed, in 1492, Lorenzo lay between two men--Angelo Poliziano and Girolamo Savonarola.
Poliziano incarnated the genial, radiant, godless spirit of fifteenth-century humanism. Savonarola
represented the conscience of Italy, self-convicted, amid all her greatness, of crimes that
called for punishment. It is said that when Lorenzo asked the monk for absolution, Savonarola
bade him first restore freedom to Florence. Lorenzo, turned his face to the wall and was silent.
How indeed could he make this city in a moment free, after sixty years of slow and systematic
corruption? Savonarola left him, and he died unshriven. This legend is doubtful, though it
rests on excellent if somewhat partial authority. It has, at any rate, the value of a mythus,
since it epitomises the attitude assumed by the great preacher to the prince. Florence enslaved,
the soul of Lorenzo cannot lay its burden down, but must go with all its sins upon it to the
throne of God.

The year 1492 was a memorable year for Italy. In this year Lorenzo's death removed the keystone
of the arch that had sustained the fabric of Italian federation. In this year Roderigo Borgia
was elected Pope. In this year Columbus discovered America; Vasco de Gama soon after opened
a new way to the Indies, and thus the commerce of the world passed from Italy to other nations.
In this year the conquest of Granada gave unity to the Spanish nation. In this year France,
through the lifelong craft of Louis XI., was for the first time united under a young hot-headed
sovereign. On every side of the political horizon storms threatened. It was clear that a new
chapter of European history had been opened. Then Savonarola raised his voice, and cried that
the crimes of Italy, the abominations of the Church, would speedily be punished. Events led
rapidly to the fulfilment of this prophecy. Lorenzo's successor, Piero de' Medici, was a vain,
irresolute, and hasty princeling, fond of display, proud of his skill in fencing and football-playing,
with too much of the Orsini blood in his hot veins, with too little of the Medicean craft in
his weak head. The Italian despots felt they could not trust Piero, and this want of confidence
was probably the first motive that impelled Lodovico Sforza to call Charles VIII. into Italy
in 1494.

It will not be necessary to dwell upon this invasion of the French, except in so far as it
affected Florence. Charles passed rapidly through Lombardy, engaged his army in the passes
of the Apennines, and debouched upon the coast where the Magra divided Tuscany from Liguria.
Here the fortresses of Sarzana and Pietra Santa, between the marble bulwark of Carrara and
the Tuscan sea, stopped his further progress. The keys were held by the Florentines. To force
these strong positions and to pass beyond them seemed impossible. It might have been impossible
if Piero de' Medici had possessed a firmer will. As it was, he rode off to the French camp,
delivered up the forts to Charles, bound the King by no engagements, and returned not otherwise
than proud of his folly to Florence. A terrible reception awaited him. The Florentines, in
their fury, had risen and sacked the Medicean palace. It was as much as Piero, with his brothers,
could do to escape beyond the hills to Venice. The despotism of the Medici, so carefully built
up, so artfully sustained and strengthened, was overthrown in a single day.

XVIII

Before considering what happened in Florence after the expulsion of the Medici, it will be
well to pause a moment and review the state in which Lorenzo had left his family. Piero, his
eldest son, recognised as chief of the republic after his father's death, was married to Alfonsina
Orsini, and was in his twenty-second year. Giovanni, his second son, a youth of seventeen,
had just been made cardinal. This honour, of vast importance for the Casa Medici in the future,
he owed to his sister Maddalena's marriage to Franceschetto Cybo, son of Innocent VIII. The
third of Lorenzo's sons, named Giuliano, was a boy of thirteen. Giulio, the bastard son of
the elder Giuliano, was fourteen. These four princes formed the efficient strength of the Medici,
the hope of the house; and for each of them, with the exception of Piero, who died in exile,
and of whom no more notice need be taken, a brilliant destiny was still in store. In the year
1495, however, they now wandered, homeless and helpless, through the cities of Italy, each
of which was shaken to its foundations by the French invasion.

XIX

Florence, left without the Medici, deprived of Pisa and other subject cities by the passage
of the French army, with no leader but the monk Savonarola, now sought to reconstitute her
liberties. During the domination of the Albizzi and the Medici the old order of the commonwealth
had been completely broken up. The Arti had lost their primitive importance. The distinctions
between the Grandi and the Popolani had practically passed away. In a democracy that has submitted
to a lengthened course of tyranny, such extinction of its old life is inevitable. Yet the passion
for liberty was still powerful; and the busy brains of the Florentines were stored with experience
gained from their previous vicissitudes, from \ the study of antique history, and from the
observation of existing constitutions in the towns of Italy. They now determined to reorganise
the State upon the model of the Venetian republic. The Signory was to remain, with its old
institution of Priors, Gonfalonier, and College, elected for brief periods. These magistrates
were to take the initiative in debate, to propose measures, and to consider plans of action.
The real power of the State, for voting supplies and ratifying the measures of the Signory,
was vested in a senate of one thousand members, called the Grand Council, from whom a smaller
body of forty, acting as intermediates between the Council and the Signory, were elected. It
is said that the plan of this constitution originated with Savonarola; nor is there any doubt
that he used all his influence in the pulpit of the Duomo to render it acceptable to the people.
Whoever may have been responsible for its formation, the new government was carried in 1495,
and a large hall for the assembly of the Grand Council was opened in the Public Palace.

Savonarola, meanwhile, had become the ruling spirit of Florence. He gained his great power
as a preacher: he used it like a monk. The motive principle of his action was the passion for
reform. To bring the Church back to its pristine state of purity, without altering its doctrine
or suggesting any new form of creed; to purge Italy of ungodly customs; to overthrow the tyrants
who encouraged evil living, and to place the power of the State in the hands of sober citizens:
these were his objects. Though he set himself in bold opposition to the reigning Pope, he had
no desire to destroy the spiritual supremacy of S. Peter's see. Though he burned with an enthusiastic
zeal for liberty, and displayed rare genius for administration, he had no ambition to rule
Florence like a dictator. Savonarola was neither a reformer in the northern sense of the word,
nor yet a political demagogue. His sole wish was to see purity of manners and freedom of self-government
re-established. With this end in view he bade the Florentines elect Christ as their supreme
chief; and they did so. For the same end he abstained from appearing in the State Councils,
and left the Constitution to work by its own laws. His personal influence he reserved for the
pulpit; and here he was omnipotent. The people believed in him as a prophet. They turned to
him as the man who knew what he wanted--as the voice of liberty, the soul of the new régime,
the genius who could breathe into the commonwealth a breath of fresh vitality. When, therefore,
Savonarola preached a reform of manners, he was at once obeyed. Strict laws were passed enforcing
sobriety, condemning trades of pleasure, reducing the gay customs of Florence to puritanical
austerity.

Great stress has been laid upon this reaction of the monk-led populace against the vices of
the past. Yet the historian is bound to pronounce that the reform effected by Savonarola was
rather picturesque than vital. Like all violent revivals of pietism, it produced a no less
violent reaction. The parties within the city who resented the interference of a preaching
friar, joined with the Pope in Rome, who hated a contumacious schismatic in Savonarola. Assailed
by these two forces at the same moment, and driven upon perilous ground by his own febrile
enthusiasm, Savonarola succumbed. He was imprisoned, tortured, and burned upon the public square
in 1498.

What Savonarola really achieved for Florence was not a permanent reform of morality, but a
resuscitation of the spirit of freedom. His followers, called in contempt I Piagnoni, or the
Weepers, formed the path of the commonwealth in future; and the memory of their martyr served
as a common bond of sympathy to unite them in times of trial. It was a necessary consequence
of the peculiar part he played that the city was henceforth divided into factions representing
mutually antagonistic principles. These factions were not created by Savonarola; but his extraordinary
influence accentuated, as it were, the humours that lay dormant in the State. Families favourable
to the Medici took the name of Palleschi. Men who chafed against puritanical reform, and who
were eager for any government that should secure them their old licence, were known as Compagnacci.
Meanwhile the oligarchs, who disliked a democratic Constitution, and thought it possible to
found an aristocracy without the intervention of the Medici, came to be known as Gli Ottimati.
Florence held within itself, from this epoch forward to the final extinction of liberty, four
great parties: the Piagnoni, passionate for political freedom and austerity of life; the Palleschi,
favourable to the Medicean cause, and regretful of Lorenzo's pleasant rule; the Compagnacci,
intolerant of the reformed republic, neither hostile nor loyal to the Medici, but desirous
of personal licence; the Ottimati, astute and selfish, watching their own advantage, ever-mindful
to form a narrow government of privileged families, disinclined to the Medici, except when
they thought the Medici might be employed as instruments in their intrigues.

XX

During the short period of Savonarola's ascendency, Florence was in form at least a Theocracy,
without any titular head but Christ; and as long as the enthusiasm inspired by the monk lasted,
as long as his personal influence endured, the Constitution of the Grand Council worked well.
After his death it was found that the machinery was too cumbrous. While adopting the Venetian
form of government, the Florentines had omitted one essential element--the Doge. By referring
measures of immediate necessity to the Grand Council, the republic lost precious time. Dangerous
publicity, moreover, was incurred; and so large a body often came to no firm resolution. There
was no permanent authority in the State; no security that what had been deliberated would be
carried out with energy; no titular chief, who could transact affairs with foreign potentates
and their ambassadors. Accordingly, in 1502, it was decreed that the Gonfalonier should hold
office for life--should be in fact a Doge. To this important post of permanent president Piero
Soderini was appointed; and in his hands were placed the chief affairs of the republic.

At this point Florence, after all her vicissitudes, had won her way to something really similar
to the Venetian Constitution. Yet the similarity existed more in form than in fact. The government
of burghers in a Grand Council, with a Senate of forty, and a Gonfalonier for life, had not
grown up gradually and absorbed into itself the vital forces of the commonwealth. It was a
creation of inventive intelligence, not of national development, in Florence. It had against
it the jealousy of the Ottimati, who felt themselves overshadowed by the Gonfalonier; the hatred
of the Palleschi, who yearned for the Medici; the discontent of the working classes, who thought
the presence of a Court in Florence would improve trade; last, but not least, the disaffection
of the Compagnacci, who felt they could not flourish to their heart's content in a free commonwealth.
Moreover, though the name of liberty was on every lip, though the Florentines talked, wrote,
and speculated more about constitutional independence than they had ever done, the true energy
of free institutions had passed from the city. The corrupt government of Cosimo and Lorenzo
bore its natural fruit now. Egotistic ambition and avarice supplanted patriotism and industry.
It is necessary to comprehend these circumstances, in order that the next revolution may be
clearly understood.

XXI

During the ten years which elapsed between 1502 and 1512, Piero Soderini administered Florence
with an outward show of great prosperity. He regained Pisa, and maintained an honourable foreign
policy in the midst of the wars stirred up by the League of Cambray. Meanwhile the young princes
of the House of Medici had grown to manhood in exile. The Cardinal Giovanni was thirty-seven
in 1512. His brother Giuliano was thirty-three. Both of these men were better fitted than their
brother Piero to fight the battles of the family. Giovanni, in particular, had inherited no
small portion of the Medicean craft. During the troubled reign of Julius II. he kept very quiet,
cementing his connections with powerful men in Rome, but making no effort to regain his hold
on Florence. Now the moment for striking a decisive blow had come. After the battle of Ravenna
in 1512, the French were driven out of Italy, and the Sforzas returned to Milan; the Spanish
troops, under the Viceroy Cardona, remained masters of the country. Following the camp of these
Spaniards, Giovanni de' Medici entered Tuscany in August, and caused the restoration of the
Medici to be announced in Florence. The people, assembled by Soderini, resolved to resist to
the uttermost. No foreign army should force them to receive the masters whom they had expelled.
Yet their courage failed on August 29th, when news reached them of the capture and the sack
of Prato. Prato is a sunny little city a few miles distant from the walls of Florence, famous
for the beauty of its women, the richness of its gardens, and the grace of its buildings. Into
this gem of cities the savage soldiery of Spain marched in the bright autumnal weather, and
turned the paradise into a hell. It is even now impossible to read of what they did in Prato
without shuddering.[16] Cruelty and lust, sordid greed for gold, and cold delight in bloodshed,
could go no further. Giovanni de' Medici, by nature mild and voluptuous, averse to violence
of all kinds, had to smile approval, while the Spanish Viceroy knocked thus with mailed hand
for him at the door of Florence. The Florentines were paralysed with terror. They deposed Soderini
and received the Medici. Giovanni and Giuliano entered their devastated palace in the Via Larga,
abolished the Grand Council, and dealt with the republic as they listed.

XXII

There was no longer any medium in Florence possible between either tyranny or some such government
as the Medici had now destroyed. The State was too rotten to recover even the modified despotism
of Lorenzo's days. Each transformation had impaired some portion of its framework, broken down
some of its traditions, and sowed new seeds of egotism in citizens who saw all things round
them change but self-advantage. Therefore Giovanni and Giuliano felt themselves secure in flattering
the popular vanity by an empty parade of the old institutions. They restored the Signory and
the Gonfalonier, elected for intervals of two months by officers appointed for this purpose
by the Medici. Florence had the show of a free government. But the Medici managed all things;
and soldiers, commanded by their creature, Paolo Vettori, held the Palace and the Public Square.
The tyranny thus established was less secure, inasmuch as it openly rested upon violence, than
Lorenzo's power had been; nor were there signs wanting that the burghers could ill brook their
servitude. The conspiracy of Pietro Paolo Boscoli and Agostino Capponi proved that the Medicean
brothers ran daily risk of life. Indeed, it is not likely that they would have succeeded in
maintaining their authority--for they were poor and ill-supported by friends outside the city--except
for one most lucky circumstance: that was the election of Giovanni de' Medici to the Papacy
in 1513.

The creation of Leo X. spread satisfaction throughout Italy. Politicians trusted that he would
display some portion of his father's ability, and restore peace to the nation. Men of arts
and letters expected everything from a Medicean Pope, who had already acquired the reputation
of polite culture and open-handed generosity. They at any rate were not deceived. Leo's first
words on taking his place in the Vatican were addressed to his brother Giuliano: 'Let us enjoy
the Papacy, now that God has given it to us;' and his notion of enjoyment was to surround himself
with court-poets, jesters, and musicians, to adorn his Roman palaces with frescoes, to collect
statues and inscriptions, to listen to Latin speeches, and to pass judgment upon scholarly
compositions. Any one and every one who gave him sensual or intellectual pleasure, found his
purse always open. He lived in the utmost magnificence, and made Rome the Paris of the Renaissance
for brilliance, immorality, and self-indulgent ease. The politicians had less reason to be
satisfied. Instead of uniting the Italians and keeping the great Powers of Europe in check,
Leo carried on a series of disastrous petty wars, chiefly with the purpose of establishing
the Medici as princes. He squandered the revenues of the Church, and left enormous debts behind
him--an exchequer ruined and a foreign policy so confused that peace for Italy could only be
obtained by servitude.

Florence shared in the general rejoicing which greeted Leo's accession to the Papacy. He was
the first Florentine citizen who had received the tiara, and the popular vanity was flattered
by this honour to the republic. Political theorists, meanwhile, began to speculate what greatness
Florence, in combination with Rome, might rise to. The Pope was young; he ruled a large territory,
reduced to order by his warlike predecessors. It seemed as though the republic, swayed by him,
might make herself the first city in Italy, and restore the glories of her Guelf ascendency
upon the platform of Renaissance statecraft. There was now no overt opposition to the Medici
in Florence. How to govern the city from Rome, and how to advance the fortunes of his brother
Giuliano and his nephew Lorenzo (Piero's son, a young man of twenty-one), occupied the Pope's
most serious attention. For Lorenzo Leo obtained the Duchy of Urbino and the hand of a French
princess. Giuliano was named Gonfalonier of the Church. He also received the French title of
Duke of Nemours and the hand of Filiberta, Princess of Savoy. Leo entertained a further project
of acquiring the crown of Southern Italy for his brother, and thus of uniting Rome, Florence,
and Naples under the headship of his house. Nor were the Medicean interests neglected in the
Church. Giulio, the Pope's bastard cousin, was made cardinal. He remained in Rome, acting as
vice-chancellor and doing the hard work of the Papal Government for the pleasure-loving pontiff.

To Lorenzo, Duke of Urbino, the titular head of the family, was committed the government of
Florence. During their exile, wandering from court to court in Italy, the Medici had forgotten
what it was to be burghers, and had acquired the manners of princes. Leo alone retained enough
of caution to warn his nephew that the Florentines must still be treated as free people. He
confirmed the constitution of the Signory and the Privy Council of seventy established by his
father, bidding Lorenzo, while he ruled this sham republic, to avoid the outer signs of tyranny.
The young duke at first behaved with moderation, but he could not cast aside his habits of
a great lord. Florence now for the first time saw a regular court established in her midst,
with a prince, who, though he bore a foreign title, was in fact her master. The joyous days
of Lorenzo the Magnificent returned. Masquerades and triumphs filled the public squares. Two
clubs of pleasure, called the Diamond and the Branch--badges adopted by the Medici to signify
their firmness in disaster and their power of self-recovery--were formed to lead the revels.
The best sculptors and painters devoted their genius to the invention of costumes and cars.
The city affected to believe that the age of gold had come again.

XXIII

Fortune had been very favourable to the Medici. They had returned as princes to Florence. Giovanni
was Pope. Giuliano was Gonfalonier of the Church. Giulio was Cardinal and Archbishop of Florence.
Lorenzo ruled the city like a sovereign. But this prosperity was no less brief than it was
brilliant. A few years sufficed to sweep off all the chiefs of the great house. Giuliano died
in 1516, leaving only a bastard son Ippolito. Lorenzo died in 1519, leaving a bastard son Alessandro,
and a daughter, six days old, who lived to be the Queen of France. Leo died in 1521. There
remained now no legitimate male descendants from the stock of Cosimo. The honours and pretensions
of the Medici devolved upon three bastards--on the Cardinal Giulio, and the two boys, Alessandro
and Ippolito. Of these, Alessandro was a mulatto, his mother having been a Moorish slave in
the Palace of Urbino; and whether his father was Giulio, or Giuliano, or a base groom, was
not known for certain. To such extremities were the Medici reduced. In order to keep their
house alive, they were obliged to adopt this foundling. It is true that the younger branch
of the family, descended from Lorenzo, the brother of Cosimo, still flourished. At this epoch
it was represented by Giovanni, the great general known as the Invincible, whose bust so strikingly
resembles that of Napoleon. But between this line of the Medici and the elder branch there
had never been true cordiality. The Cardinal mistrusted Giovanni. It may, moreover, be added,
that Giovanni was himself doomed to death in the year 1526.

Giulio de' Medici was left in 1521 to administer the State of Florence single-handed. He was
archbishop, and he resided in the city, holding it with the grasp of an absolute ruler. Yet
he felt his position insecure. The republic had no longer any forms of self-government; nor
was there a magistracy to whom the despot could delegate his power in his absence. Giulio's
ambition was fixed upon the Papal crown. The bastards he was rearing were but children. Florence
had therefore to be furnished with some political machinery that should work of itself. The
Cardinal did not wish to give freedom to the city, but clockwork. He was in the perilous situation
of having to rule a commonwealth without life, without elasticity, without capacity of self-movement,
yet full of such material as, left alone, might ferment, and breed a revolution. In this perplexity,
he had recourse to advisers. The most experienced politicians, philosophical theorists, practical
diplomatists, and students of antique history were requested to furnish him with plans for
a new constitution, just as you ask an architect to give you the plan of a new house. This
was the field-day of the doctrinaires. Now was seen how much political sagacity the Florentines
had gained while they were losing liberty. We possess these several drafts of constitutions.
Some recommend tyranny; some incline to aristocracy, or what Italians called Governo Stretto;
some to democracy, or Governo Largo; some to an eclectic compound of the other forms, or Governo
Misto. More consummate masterpieces of constructive ingenuity can hardly be imagined. What
is omitted in all, is just what no doctrinaire, no nostrum can communicate--the breath of life,
the principle of organic growth. Things had come, indeed, to a melancholy pass for Florence
when her tyrant, in order to confirm his hold upon her, had to devise these springs and irons
to support her tottering limbs.

XXIV

While the archbishop and the doctors were debating, a plot was hatching in the Rucellai Gardens.
It was here that the Florentine Academy now held their meetings. For this society Machiavelli
wrote his 'Treatise on the Art of War,' and his 'Discourses upon Livy.' The former was an exposition
of Machiavelli's scheme for creating a national militia, as the only safeguard for Italy, exposed
at this period to the invasions of great foreign armies. The latter is one of the three or
four masterpieces produced by the Florentine school of critical historians. Stimulated by the
daring speculations of Machiavelli, and fired to enthusiasm by their study of antiquity, the
younger academicians formed a conspiracy for murdering Giulio de' Medici, and restoring the
republic on a Roman model. An intercepted letter betrayed their plans. Two of the conspirators
were taken and beheaded. Others escaped. But the discovery of this conjuration put a stop to
Giulio's scheme of reforming the State. Henceforth he ruled Florence like a despot, mild in
manners, cautious in the exercise of arbitrary power, but firm in his autocracy. The Condottiere.
Alessandro Vitelli, with a company of soldiers, was taken into service for the protection of
his person and the intimidation of the citizens.

In 1523, the Pope, Adrian VI., expired after a short papacy, from which he gained no honour
and Italy no profit. Giulio hurried to Rome, and, by the clever use of his large influence,
caused himself to be elected with the title of Clement VII. In Florence he left Silvio Passerini,
Cardinal of Cortona, as his vicegerent and the guardian of the two boys Alessandro and Ippolito.
The discipline of many years had accustomed the Florentines to a government of priests. Still
the burghers, mindful of their ancient liberties, were galled by the yoke of a Cortonese, sprung
up from one of their subject cities; nor could they bear the bastards who were being reared
to rule them. Foreigners threw it in their teeth that Florence, the city glorious of art and
freedom, was become a stable for mules--stalla da muli, in the expressive language of popular
sarcasm. Bastardy, it may be said in passing, carried with it small dishonour among the Italians.
The Estensi were all illegitimate; the Aragonese house in Naples sprang from Alfonso's natural
son; and children of Popes ranked among the princes. Yet the uncertainty of Alessandro's birth
and the base condition of his mother made the prospect of this tyrant peculiarly odious; while
the primacy of a foreign cardinal in the midst of citizens whose spirit was still unbroken,
embittered the cup of humiliation. The Casa Medici held its authority by a slender thread,
and depended more upon the disunion of the burghers than on any power of its own. It could
always reckon on the favour of the lower populace, who gained profit and amusement from the
presence of a court. The Ottimati again hoped more from a weak despotism than from a commonwealth,
where their privileges would have been merged in the mass of the Grand Council. Thus the sympathies
of the plebeians and the selfishness of the rich patricians prevented the republic from asserting
itself. On this meagre basis of personal cupidity the Medici sustained themselves. What made
the situation still more delicate, and at the same time protracted the feeble rule of Clement,
was that neither the Florentines nor the Medici had any army. Face to face with a potentate
so considerable as the Pope, a free State could not be established without military force.
On the other hand, the Medici, supported by a mere handful of mercenaries, had no power to
resist a popular rising if any external event should inspire the middle classes with a hope
of liberty.

XXV

Clement assumed the tiara at a moment of great difficulty. Leo had ruined the finance of Rome.
France and Spain were still contending for the possession of Italy. While acting as Vice-Chancellor,
Giulio de' Medici had seemed to hold the reins with a firm grasp, and men expected that he
would prove a powerful Pope; but in those days he had Leo to help him; and Leo, though indolent,
was an abler man than his cousin. He planned, and Giulio executed. Obliged to act now for himself,
Clement revealed the weakness of his nature. That weakness was irresolution, craft without
wisdom, diplomacy without knowledge of men. He raised the storm, and showed himself incapable
of guiding it. This is not the place to tell by what a series of crooked schemes and cross
purposes he brought upon himself the ruin of the Church and Rome, to relate his disagreement
with the Emperor, or to describe again the sack of the Eternal City by the rabble of the Constable
de Bourbon's army. That wreck of Rome in 1527 was the closing scene of the Italian Renaissance--the
last of the Apocalyptic tragedies foretold by Savonarola--the death of the old age.

When the Florentines knew what was happening in Rome, they rose and forced the Cardinal Passerini
to depart with the Medicean bastards from the city. The youth demanded arms for the defence
of the town, and they received them. The whole male population was enrolled in a militia. The
Grand Council was reformed, and the republic was restored upon the basis of 1495. Niccolo Capponi
was elected Gonfalonier. The name of Christ was again registered as chief of the commonwealth--to
such an extent did the memory of Savonarola still sway the popular imagination. The new State
hastened to form an alliance with France, and Malatesta Baglioni was chosen as military Commander-in-Chief.
Meanwhile the city armed itself for siege--Michel Angelo Buonarroti and Francesco da San Gallo
undertaking the construction of new forts and ramparts. These measures were adopted with sudden
decision, because it was soon known that Clement had made peace with the Emperor, and that
the army which had sacked Rome was going to be marched on Florence.

XXVI

In the month of August 1529 the Prince of Orange assembled his forces at Terni, and thence
advanced by easy stages into Tuscany. As he approached, the Florentines laid waste their suburbs,
and threw down their wreath of towers, in order that the enemy might have no harbourage or
points of vantage for attack. Their troops were concentrated within the city, where a new Gonfalonier,
Francesco Carducci, furiously opposed to the Medici, and attached to the Piagnoni party, now
ruled. On September 4th the Prince of Orange appeared before the walls, and opened the memorable
siege. It lasted eight months, at the end of which time, betrayed by their generals, divided
among themselves, and worn out with delays, the Florentines capitulated. Florence was paid
as compensation for the insult offered to the pontiff in the sack of Rome.

The long yoke of the Medici had undermined the character of the Florentines. This, their last
glorious struggle for liberty, was but a flash in the pan--a final flare-up of the dying lamp.
The city was not satisfied with slavery; but it had no capacity for united action. The Ottimati
were egotistic and jealous of the people. The Palleschi desired to restore the Medici at any
price--some of them frankly wishing for a principality, others trusting that the old quasi-republican
government might still be reinstated. The Red Republicans, styled Libertini and Arrabbiati,
clung together in blind hatred of the Medicean party; but they had no further policy to guide
them. The Piagnoni, or Frateschi, stuck to the memory of Savonarola, and believed that angels
would descend to guard the battlements when human help had failed. These enthusiasts still
formed the true nerve of the nation--the class that might have saved the State, if salvation
had been possible. Even as it was, the energy of their fanaticism prolonged the siege until
resistance seemed no longer physically possible. The hero developed by the crisis was Francesco
Ferrucci, a plebeian who had passed his youth in manual labour, and who now displayed rare
military genius. He fell fighting outside the walls of Florence. Had he commanded the troops
from the beginning, and remained inside the city, it is just possible that the fate of the
war might have been less disastrous. As it was, Malatesta Baglioni, the Commander-in-Chief,
turned out an arrant scoundrel. He held secret correspondence with Clement and the Prince of
Orange. It was he who finally sold Florence to her foes, 'putting on his head,' as the Doge
of Venice said before the Senate, 'the cap of the biggest traitor upon record.'

XXVII

