It may be said that ready money for the moment was the one desire nearest to the heart of Mollett
pere, when he took that last journey over the Boggeragh mountains--ready money wherewith to
satisfy the pressing claims of Miss O'Dwyer, and bring back civility, or rather servility,
to the face and manner of Tom the waiter at the Kanturk Hotel. Very little of that servility
can be enjoyed by persons of the Mollett class when money ceases to be ready in their hands
and pocket, and there is, perhaps, nothing that they enjoy so keenly as servility. Mollett
pere had gone down determined that that comfort should at any rate be forthcoming to him, whatever
answer might be given to those other grander demands, and we know what success had attended
his mission. He had looked to find his tame milch-cow trembling in her accustomed stall, and
he had found a resolute bull there in her place--a bull whom he could by no means take by the
horns. He had got no money, and before he had reached Cork he had begun to comprehend that
it was not probable that he should get more from that source.

During a part of the interview between him and Mr. Prendergast, some spark of mercy towards
his victims had glimmered into his heart. When it was explained to him that the game was to
be given up, that the family at Castle Richmond was prepared to acknowledge the truth, and
that the effort made was with the view of proving that the poor lady up stairs was not entitled
to the name she bore rather than that she was so entitled, then some slight promptings of a
better spirit did for a while tempt him to be merciful. "Oh, what are you about to do?" he
would have said had Mr. Prendergast admitted of speech from him. "Why make this terrible sacrifice?
Matters have not come to that. There is no need for you to drag to the light this terrible
fact. I will not divulge it--no not although you are hard upon me in regard to these terms
of mine. I will still keep it to myself, and trust to you,--to you who are all so rich and
able to pay, for what consideration you may please to give me." This was the state of his mind
when Mrs. Jones's evidence was being slowly evoked from her; but it had undergone a considerable
change before he reached Cork. By that time he had taught himself to understand that there
was no longer a chance to him of any consideration whatever. Slowly he had brought it home
to himself that these people had resolutely determined to blow up the ground on which they
themselves stood. This he perceived was their honesty. He did not understand the nature of
a feeling which could induce so fatal a suicide, but he did understand that the feeling was
there, and that the suicide would be completed.

And now what was he to do next in the way of earning his bread? Various thoughts ran through
his brain, and different resolves--half-formed but still, perhaps, capable of shape-- presented
themselves to him for the future. It was still on the cards--on the cards, but barely so--that
he might make money out of these people; but he must wait perhaps for weeks before he again
commenced such an attempt. He might perhaps make money out of them, and be merciful to them
at the same time;--not money by thousands and tens of thousands; that golden dream was gone
for ever; but still money that might be comfortably luxurious as long as it could be made to
last. But then on one special point he made a firm and final resolution,--whatever new scheme
he might hatch he alone would manage. Never again would he call into his councils that son
of his loins whose rapacious greed had, as he felt sure, brought upon him all this ruin. Had
Aby not gone to Castle Richmond, with his cruelty and his greed, frightening to the very death
the soul of that poor baronet by the enormity of his demands, Mr. Prendergast would not have
been there. Of what further chance of Castle Richmond pickings there might be Aby should know
nothing. He and his son would no longer hunt in couples. He would shake him off in that escape
which they must both now make from Cork, and he would not care how long it might be before
he again saw his countenance.

But then that question of ready money; and that other question, perhaps as interesting, touching
a criminal prosecution! How was he to escape if he could not raise the wind? And how could
he raise the wind now that his milch-cow had run so dry? He had promised the O'Dwyers money
that evening, and had struggled hard to make that promise with an easy face. He now had none
to give them. His orders at the inn were treated almost with contempt. For the last three days
they had given him what he wanted to eat and drink, but would hardly give him all that he wanted.
When he called for brandy they brought him whisky, and it had only been by hard begging, and
by oaths as to the promised money, that he had induced them to supply him with the car which
had taken him on his fruitless journey to Castle Richmond. As he was driven up to the door
in South Main Street, his heart was very sad on all these subjects.

Aby was again sitting within the bar, but was no longer basking in the sunshine of Fanny's
smiles. He was sitting there because Fanny had not yet mustered courage to turn him out. He
was half-drunk, for it had been found impossible to keep spirits from him. And there had been
hot words between him and Fanny, in which she had twitted him with his unpaid bill, and he
had twitted her with her former love. And things had gone from bad to worse, and she had all
but called in Tom for aid in getting quit of him; she had, however, refrained, thinking of
the money that might be coming, and waiting also till her father should arrive. Fanny's love
for Mr. Abraham Mollett had not been long lived.

I will not describe another scene such as those which had of late been frequent in the Kanturk
Hotel. The father and the son soon found themselves together in the small room in which they
now both slept, at the top of the house, and Aby, tipsy as he was, understood the whole of
what had happened at Castle Richmond. When he heard that Mr. Prendergast was seen in that room
in lieu of Sir Thomas, he knew at once that the game had been abandoned. "But something may
yet be done at 'Appy 'ouse," Aby said to himself, "only one must be deuced quick."

The father and the son of course quarrelled frightfully, like dogs over the memory of a bone
which had been arrested from the jaws of both of them. Aby said that his father had lost everything
by his pusillanimity, and old Mollett declared that his son had destroyed all by his rashness.
But we need not repeat their quarrels, nor repeat all that passed between them and Tom before
food was forthcoming to satisfy the old man's wants. As he ate he calculated how much he might
probably raise upon his watch towards taking him to London, and how best he might get off from
Cork without leaving any scent in the nostrils of his son. His clothes he must leave behind
him at the inn, at least all that he could not pack upon his person. Lately he had made himself
comfortable in this respect, and he sorrowed over the fine linen which he had worn but once
or twice since it had been bought with the last instalment from Sir Thomas. Nevertheless in
this way he did make up his mind for the morrow's campaign.

And Aby also made up his mind. Something, at any rate, he had learned from Fanny O'Dwyer in
return for his honeyed words. When Herbert Fitzgerald should cease to be the heir to Castle
Richmond, Owen Fitzgerald of Hap House would be the happy man. That knowledge was his own in
absolute independence of his father, and there might still be time for him to use it. He knew
well the locality of Hap House, and he would be there early on the following morning. These
tidings had probably not as yet reached the owner of that blessed abode, and if he could be
the first to tell him--! The game there too might be pretty enough, if it were played well,
by such a master-hand as his own. Yes; he would be at Hap House early in the morning;--but
then, how to get there?

He left his father preparing for bed, and going down into the bar found Mr. O'Dwyer and his
daughter there in close consultation. They were endeavouring to arrive, by their joint wisdom,
at some conclusion as to what they should do with their two guests. Fanny was for turning them
out at once. "The first loss is the least," said she. "And they is so disrispectable. I niver
know what they're afther, and always is expecting the p'lice will be down on them." But the
father shook his head. He had done nothing wrong; the police could not hurt him; and thirty
pounds, as he told his daughter, with much emphasis, was "a deuced sight of money." "The first
loss is the least," said Fanny, perseveringly; and then Aby entered to them.

"My father has made a mull of this matter again," said he, going at once into the middle of
the subject. "'E 'as come back without a shiner."

"I'll be bound he has," said Mr. O'Dwyer, sarcastically.

"And that when 'e'd only got to go two or three miles further, and hall his troubles would
have been over."

"Troubles over, would they?" said Fanny, "I wish he'd have the goodness to get over his little
troubles in this house, by paying us our bill. You'll have to walk if it's not done, and that
to-morrow, Mr. Mollett; and so I tell you; and take nothing with you, I can tell you. Father'll
have the police to see to that."

"Don't you be so cruel now, Miss Fanny," said Aby, with a leering look. "I tell you what it
is, Mr. O'Dwyer, I must go down again to them diggings very early to-morrow, starting, say,
at four o'clock."

"You'll not have a foot out of my stables," said Mr. O'Dwyer. "That's all."

"Look here, Mr. O'Dwyer; there's been a sight of money due to us from those Fitzgerald people
down there. You know 'em; and whether they're hable to pay or not. I won't deny but what father's
'ad the best of it,--'ad the best of it, and sent it trolling, bad luck to him. But there's
no good looking hafter spilt milk; is there?"

"If so be that Sir Thomas owed the likes of you money, he would have paid it without your tramping
down there time after time to look for it. He's not one of that sort."

"No, indeed," said Fanny; "and I don't believe anything about your seeing Sir Thomas."

"Oh, we've seed him hoften enough. There's no mistake about that. But now--" and then, with
a mysterious air and low voice, he explained to them, that this considerable balance of money
still due to them was to be paid by the cousin, "Mr. Owen of 'Appy 'ouse." And to substantiate
all his story, he exhibited a letter from Mr. Prendergast to his father, which some months
since had intimated that a sum of money would be paid on behalf of Sir Thomas Fitzgerald, if
Mr. Mollett would call at Mr. Prendergast's office at a certain hour. The ultimate effect of
all this was, that the car was granted for the morning, with certain dire threats as to any
further breach of engagement.

Very early on the following morning Aby was astir, hoping that he might manage to complete
his not elaborate toilet without disturbing his father's slumbers. For, it must be known, he
had been very urgent with the O'Dwyers as to the necessity of keeping this journey of his a
secret from his "governor." But the governor was wide awake, looking at him out of the corner
of his closed eye whenever his back was turned, and not caring much what he was about to do
with himself. Mollett pere wished to be left alone for that morning, that he also might play
his little game in his own solitary fashion, and was not at all disposed to question the movements
of his son.

At about five Aby started for Hap House. His toilet, I have said, was not elaborate; but in
this I have perhaps wronged him. Up there in the bed-room he did not waste much time over his
soap and water; but he was aware that first impressions are everything, and that one young
man should appear smart and clever before another if he wished to carry any effect with him;
so he took his brush and comb in his pocket, and a pot of grease with which he was wont to
polish his long side-locks, and he hurriedly grasped up his pins, and his rings, and the satin
stock which Fanny in her kinder mood had folded for him; and then, during his long journey
to Hap House, he did perform a toilet which may, perhaps, be fairly called elaborate.

There was a long, tortuous, narrow avenue, going from the Mallow and Kanturk road down to Hap
House, which impressed Aby with the idea that the man on whom he was now about to call was
also a big gentleman, and made him more uneasy than he would have been had he entered a place
with less pretence. There is a story current, that in the west of England the grandeur of middle-aged
maiden ladies is measured by the length of the tail of their cats; and Aby had a perhaps equally
correct idea, that the length of the private drive up to a gentleman's house, was a fair criterion
of the splendour of his position. If this man had about him as much grandeur as Sir Thomas
himself, would he be so anxious as Aby had hoped to obtain the additional grandeur of Sir Thomas?
It was in that direction that his mind was operating when he got down from the car and rang
at the door-bell.

Mr. Owen, as everybody called him, was at home, but not down; and so Aby was shown into the
dining-room. It was now considerably past nine; and the servant told him that his master must
be there soon, as he had to eat his breakfast and be at the hunt by eleven. The servant at
Hap House was more unsophisticated than those at Castle Richmond, and Aby's personal adornments
had had their effect. He found himself sitting in the room with the cups and saucers,--aye,
and with the silver teaspoons; and began again to trust that his mission might be successful.

And then the door opened, and a man appeared, clad from top to toe in hunting costume. This
was not Owen Fitzgerald, but his friend Captain Donnellan. As it had happened, Captain Donnellan
was the only guest who had graced the festivities of Hap House on the previous evening; and
now he appeared at the breakfast table before his host. Aby got up from his chair when the
gentleman entered, and was proceeding to business; but the Captain gave him to understand that
the master of the house was not yet in presence, and so Aby sat down again. What was he to
do when the master did arrive? His story was not one which would well bear telling before a
third person.

And then, while Captain Donnellan was scanning this visitor to his friend Owen, and bethinking
himself whether he might not be a sheriff's officer, and whether if so some notice ought not
to be conveyed upstairs to the master of the house, another car was driven up to the front
door. In this case the arrival was from Castle Richmond, and the two servants knew each other
well. "Thady," said Richard, with much authority in his voice, "this gentl'man is Mr. Prendergast
from our place, and he must see the masther before he goes to the hunt." "Faix and the masther'll
have something to do this blessed morning," said Thady, as he showed Mr. Prendergast also into
the dining-room, and went upstairs to inform his master that there was yet another gentleman
come upon business. "The Captain has got 'em both to hisself," said Thady, as he closed the door.

