In mercy to our readers and ourselves, we shall endeavour to prevent ourselves from pursuing
this argument any further--and perhaps quite enough has been said to show that Dr Kitchiner's
assertion, that persons who live in the country have firmer health and finer spirits than the
inhabitants of towns--is exceedingly problematical. But even admitting the fact to be as the
Doctor has stated it, we do not think he has attributed the phenomenon to the right cause.
He attributes it to "their enjoying plenty of sound sleep." The worthy Doctor is entirely out
in his conjecture. The working classes in the country enjoy, we don't doubt it, sound sleep--but
not plenty of it. They have but a short allowance of sleep--and whether it be sound or not,
depends chiefly on themselves; while as to the noises in towns and cities, they are nothing
to what one hears in the country--unless, indeed, you perversely prefer private lodgings at
a pewterer's. Did we wish to be personal, we could name a single waterfall who, even in dry
weather, keeps all the visitors from town awake within a circle of four miles diameter; and
in wet weather, not only keeps them all awake, but impresses them with a constantly recurring
conviction during the hours of night, that there is something seriously amiss about the foundation
of the river, and that the whole parish is about to be overflowed, up to the battlements of
the old castle that over-looks the linn. Then, on another point, we are certain--namely, that
rural thunder is many hundred times more powerful than villatic. London porter is above admiration--but
London thunder below contempt. An ordinary hackney-coach beats it hollow. But, my faith! a
thunderstorm in the country--especially if it be mountainous, with a few fine Woods and Forests,
makes you inevitably think of that land from whose bourne no traveller returns; and even our
town readers will acknowledge that country thunder much more frequently proves mortal than
the thunder you meet with in cities. In the country, few thunderstorms are contented to pass
over without killing at least one horse, some milch-kine, half-a-dozen sucking pigs or turkeys,
an old woman or two, perhaps the Minister of the parish, a man about forty, name unknown, and
a nursing mother at the ingle, the child escaping with singed eyebrows, and a singular black
mark on one of its great toes. We say nothing of the numbers stupified, who awake the day after,
as from a dream, with strange pains in their heads, and not altogether sure about the names
or countenances of the somewhat unaccountable people whom they see variously employed about
the premises, and making themselves pretty much at home. In towns, not one thunderstorm in
fifty that performs an exploit more magnanimous than knocking down an old wife from a chimney-top--singeing
a pair of worsted stockings that, knit in an ill-starred hour, when the sun had entered Aries,
had been hung out to dry on a line in the backyard, or garden as it is called--or cutting a
few inches off the tail of an old Whig weathercock that for years had been pecking the eyes
out of all the airts the wind can blaw, greedy of some still higher preferment.

Our dear deceased author proceeds to tell his Traveller how to eat and drink; and remarks,
"that people are apt to imagine that they may indulge a little more in high living when on
a journey. Travelling itself, however, acts as a stimulus; therefore less nourishment is required
than in a state of rest. What you might not consider intemperate at home, may occasion violent
irritation, fatal inflammations, &c., in situations where you are least able to obtain medical
assistance."

