Personally I mean to cling to the old city as long as it will cling to me; but even now across
one's aching sight comes a "dream of pastime premature" which shakes such resolves a little.
Peter, for example, has been having a disturbing effect on me. Only now and then, of course--when
I am not quite myself; when the two and thirty (what remains of them) are not so firmly gritted
as they should be; when even London seems unworthy of devotion.

But these moods pass. You will admit, though, that Peter has his lure. I read about him in
the Tavistock Gazette, one of the few papers, I fancy, which does not belong to Lord NORTHCLIFFE;
and this is how the lyric (it is really a lyric, although it masquerades as an advertisement)
runs, not only in the paper but in my head: "To be let, by Tender" (this is not an oath but
some odd legal or commercial term) "as and from Lady Day all that nice little PASTURE FARM
known as HIGHER CHURCH FARM, situate in the village of Peter Tavy." Now what could be more
unlike London under the German invasion and all that nasty little tunnel known as Lower Robert
Street, than Peter Tavy?

But I must not be tempted. I must stick it out here.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY GOSSIP À LA MODE.

The mystification practised by authors who have passed off as their own work the compositions
of others is familiar to all literary students. SHAKSPEARE'S assumption of borrowed plumes
is of course the classic example. But another and more subtle problem is the interchange of
functions between two men of letters; and the theory recently advanced by the distinguished
critic and occultist, Mr. Pullar Leggatt, deserves at least a respectful hearing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Briefly stated, it is that during his hermit existence at Putney the late Mr. SWINBURNE effected
an interchange of this sort with Sir W. ROBERTSON NICOLL; the Editor of The British Weekly
devoting himself to the composition of poems, while the poet assumed editorial control of the
famous newspaper. If the theory thus crudely stated sounds somewhat fantastic the arguments
on which it is based are extraordinarily plausible if not convincing.

       *       *       *       *       *

To begin with, experts in anagrams will not fail to notice that the names ALGERNON SWINBURNE
and W. ROBERTSON NICOLL contain practically the same number of letters--absolutely the same
if SWINBURNE is spelt without an "e"--and that the forenames of both end in "-on," as does
also the concluding syllable of WATTS-DUNTON. The fact that the Editor of The British Weekly
has never published any poems over his own name only tends to confirm the theory, as the argument
conclusively establishes.

       *       *       *       *       *

For it is impossible to believe that so versatile a polymath should not at some time or other
have courted the Muse, and if so, under what name could he have had a stronger motive for publishing
his poems than that of SWINBURNE? So austere a theologian would naturally shrink from revealing
his excursions into the realms of poesy, and under this disguise he was safe from detection.
Lastly, while Sir W. ROBERTSON NICOLL has always championed the Kailyard School, SWINBURNE
lived at The Pines. The connection is obvious; as thus: Kail, sea-kale, sea-coal, coke, coker-nut,
walnut, dessert, pine-apple, pine.

       *       *       *       *       *

As regards SWINBURNE'S conduct of The British Weekly, it is enough to point to such alliterative
and melodious combinations as "Rambling Remarks" and "Claudius Clear." The theological attitude
of the paper presents difficulties which are not so easy to overcome, but Mr. Pullar Leggatt
has promised to deal with this question later on. Meanwhile the diplomatic silence maintained
by Sir W. ROBERTSON NICOLL and Mr. EDMUND GOSSE must not be interpreted as conveying either
a complete acceptance or a total rejection of this remarkable theory.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW CRUMMLES.

HERTLING "is not Prussian."

       *       *       *       *       *

MY PYJAMAS.

A STUDY IN THE FASTIDIOUS.

I hope this is not going to be embarrassing. If so, it is not my fault. This is history, please
remember, not fiction. I wanted--I am obliged to say it--pyjamas for winter wear. I know all
about pyjamas for summer wear; what I wanted was pyjamas for winter wear, and I decided that
Agnes should make them. For years I have been trying to get proper pyjamas--by which I mean
pyjamas properly made--but the haberdasher always smiles depreciation and tells me that the
goods he offers me are what are always worn. Quite so; but what I say is that out of bed and
for the purpose of having your photograph taken Trade pyjamas are all right; but that in bed
they commit untold offences. I enter my bed clothed; I settle down in it half-naked. The jacket
has run up to my arm-pits; my legs are bare to the knee; my arms to the elbows; the loosely
buttoned front is ruckled up into a funnel, down which, whenever I move, the bedclothes like
a bellows draw a chill blast of air on to that particular part of my chest which is designed
for catching colds. When I turn over in my dreams I wake to find myself tied as with ropes.
Slumber's chains have indeed bound me. I am a man in the clothing of a nightmare. The cold,
cold sheets catch me in the most ticklesome delicacies of my back and make me jump again. Enough.

"Well," said Agnes, "if I am going to make your pyjamas you must tell me exactly what you want."

"My pyjamas," I said, "shall be buttoned round the ankle and capacious below the waist--there
I ask a Turkish touch. The jacket shall be buttoned at the wrists and baggy at the shoulder;
at the chest it shall strap me across like an R.F.C. tunic, and it shall be securely clipped
to the trousers."

"Why not have it all in one?"

"What!" I cried, "and parade hotel passages in search of the bath looking like a clown out
of a circus? No, thank you."

"You must make me a pattern then," said Agnes, "or I shan't know what to do."

I can't make patterns, but I can, and I did, make plans of ground and first-floor levels, a
section and back and front elevations, all to a scale of one inch to the foot exactly. I also
made a full-size detail of a toggle-and-cinch gear linking the upper storey to the lower.

"I think," Agnes said, "you had better come to the shop and choose the material."

I thought so too. I wanted something gaudy that would make me feel cheerful when I woke in
the morning; but I also had another idea in my mind. Mangle-proof buttons! Have the things
been invented yet?

The archbishop who attended to us deprecated the idea of india-rubber buttons.

"What kind are you now using?" he asked solicitously.

"At present, on No. 2," I said, "I am using splinters of mother-of-pearl. Last week, with No.
1, I used a steel ring hanging by its rim to a shred of linen, two safeties, and a hairpin
found on the floor."

I chose a flannel with broad green and violet stripes, and very large buttons of vitrified
brick which I hoped might break the mangle. These buttons were emerald in colour and gave me
a new idea. Trimmings.

"I want to look right if the house catches fire," I told Agnes. "Green sateen collar to match
the buttons--"

"And for the wristbands," said Agnes, catching my enthusiasm.

"And for the wristbands," I agreed; "but," I added, "not at the ankles. That would make the
other people in the street expect me to dance to them, and I don't know how to."

And now the good work is complete. Toggle and cinch perform their proud functions, and I sleep
undisturbed by Arctic nightmares, for I have substituted green ties for the stoneware buttons
which reduced my vitality by absorbing heat. My only trouble is my increasing reluctance to
rise in the morning. I don't like changing out of my beautiful things so early in the day.
I am beginning to want breakfast in bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE DUMP.

(LINES TO THE N.C.O. IN CHARGE.)

  Now is the hour of dusk and mist and midges,
    Now the tired planes drone homeward through the haze,
  And distant wood-fires wink behind the ridges,
    And the first flare some timorous Hun betrays;
  Now no shell circulates, but all men brood
      Over their evening food;
  The bats flit warily and owl and rat
    With muffled cries their shadowy loves pursue,
  And pleasant, Corporal, it is to chat
    In this hushed moment with a man like you.

  How strange a spectacle of human passions
    Is yours all day beside the Arras road,
  What mournful men concerned about their rations
    When here at eve the limbers leave their load,
  What twilight blasphemy, what horses' feet
      Entangled with the meat,
  What sudden hush when that machine-gun sweeps,
    And--flat as possible for men so round--
  The Quartermasters may be seen in heaps,
    While you sit still and chuckle, I'll be bound!

  Here all men halt awhile and tell their rumours;
    Here the young runners come to cull your tales,
  How Generals talked with you, in splendid humours,
    And how the Worcestershires have gone to Wales;
  Up yonder trench each lineward regiment swings,
      Saying some shocking things;
  And here at dark sad diggers stand in hordes
    Waiting the late elusive Engineer,
  While glowing pipes illume yon notice-boards,
    That say, "No LIGHTS. YOU MUST NOT LOITER HERE."

  And you sit ruminant and take no action,
    But daylong watch the aeroplanes at play,
  Or contemplate with secret satisfaction
    Your fellow-men proceeding towards the fray;
  Your sole solicitude when men report
      There is a shovel short,
  Or, numbering jealously your rusty store,
    Some mouldering rocket, some wet bomb you miss
  That was reserved for some ensuing war,
    But on no grounds to be employed in this.

  For Colonels flatter you, most firm of warders,
    For sandbags suppliant, and do no good,
  And high Staff officers and priests in orders
    In vain beleaguer you for bits of wood,
  While I, who have nor signature nor chit,
      But badly want a bit,
  I only talk to you of these high themes,
    Nor stoop to join the sycophantic choir,
  Seeing (I trust) my wicked batman, Jeames,
    Has meanwhile pinched enough to light my fire. Perhaps. But what we shall
be saying about it depends largely, I suppose, upon our definition
of the term prophetic; also a little upon our feeling with regard to
good taste and the permissible in fiction. My own contribution will
be a sincere regret that a writer as gifted as Mr. J.C. SNAITH should
have attempted the obviously impossible. His theme, symbolised by a
wrapper-design of three figures silhouetted against a golden sunrise,
is a second advent of the Messiah, embodied in the person of a village
carpenter named (with palpable significance) John Smith, whom local
prejudice sends, not inexcusably, to a madhouse, where he dies, after
converting the inmates and instituting a campaign of universal peace.
Frankly, the chief interest of such a wildly fantastic idea lies in
watching just how far Mr. SNAITH can carry it without too flagrant
offence. That his treatment is both sincere and careful hardly lessens
my feeling that the whole attempt is one to be deplored. Humour of the
intentional kind has, of course, no place in the author's scheme. How
remote is its banishment you may judge when I tell you that the Divine
message is represented as given to mankind in the form of a wonderful
play, which instantly achieves world-wide fame, being performed by no
fewer than fifty companies in America alone. The problem (to name but
one) of the resulting struggle between plenary inspiration and the
conditions of a fit-up tour is only another proof of my contention
that there are more things in heaven and earth than can be treated
in realistic fiction, and that Mr. SNAITH'S good intentions have
unfortunately betrayed him into selecting the least possible.

       *       *       *       *       *

If Humphrey Thorncot and his sister Edith had not bored one another and grown touchy--I judge
by their reported conversations--in a house with green shutters in Chelsea, they would never
have gone to St. Elizabeth, which is a Swiss resort, and would never have met the East-Prussian
family of the von Ludwigs in the year before the War. And Humphrey would never have fallen
(temporarily) in love with Hulda von Ludwig, nor would Karl von Ludwig have fallen (permanently)
in love with Edith Thorncot. The troubles and miseries of this latter couple are related by
Mr. HUGH SPENDER in The Gulf (COLLINS). Papa von Ludwig objects so violently to all this love-making
that he eventually succumbs to a regular East-Prussian stroke of apoplexy which all but leads
to a charge of parricide against Karl by his base brother, Wilhelm. Karl is really too good
for this world. He objects to atrocities and refuses at the risk of his own life to shoot innocent
Belgian villagers. Being imprisoned, he escapes by means of a secret sliding panel and an underground
passage which leads him, not immediately, but after many vicissitudes, to America. There he
is joined by his faithful Edith, who defies the Gulf caused by the War, and marries him. Mr.
SPENDER appears to have been in some doubt as to whether he should write the story of two souls
or the history of the first few weeks of the War. Eventually he elects to do both, and his
novel consequently suffers somewhat in grip. He certainly paints a very vivid picture of events
in the first period of active operations. May I hint a doubt, by the way, whether in 1913 a
French Professor would have mentioned HINDENBURG as one of Germany's most important men? Whatever
he may have been in Germany, HINDENBURG was for the outside world a later discovery.

       *       *       *       *       *

Further Memories (HUTCHINSON) is justly called by its publishers a "fascinating volume." The
designation will not surprise those who enjoyed the late Lord REDESDALE'S former book of recollections.
The present collection is a little haphazard (but none the worse for that), its chapters ranging
over such diverse subjects as Gardens and Trees, QUEEN VICTORIA, BUDDHA, and the Commune. Certainly
not the least interesting is that devoted to the story of the Wallace Collection, of which
Lord REDESDALE was one of the trustees. His account of the origin and devolution of the famous
treasures will invest them with a new interest in the happy days when they shall again be visible.
Mr. EDMUND GOSSE contributes a foreword to the present volume, in which he draws a pathetic
picture of the author, still unconquerably young, despite his years, facing the future with
only one fear, that of the unemployment to which his increasing deafness, and the break-up
of the world as it was before the War, seemed to be condemning him. Further Memories was, we
are told, undertaken as some sort of a safeguard against this menace of stagnation. It was
a measure for which we may all be glad, as we can share Mr. GOSSE'S thanksgiving that the writer's
death, coming when it did, saved him, as he had wished, "from all consciousness of decrepitude."

       *       *       *       *       *

