Night drops her curtain only to change the scene and invest it with holier attributes. The
moon sheds her light on the surface of the ocean. No sounds break the stillness of the hour
as the ship, urged by the favored breeze, quietly, yet perseveringly, pursues her course, save
the murmuring ripple of the waves, the measured tread of the officer of the watch as he walks
the deck, the low, half-stifled creaking of a block as if impatient of inactivity, the occasional
flap of a sail awakened out of its sleep, and the stroke of the bell every half hour to mark
the lapse of time, sending its musical, ringing notes far over the water. What a time is this
for study, for contemplation, for enjoyment! The poet Gilfillan, in describing a lovely night
at sea, says, with true poetic warmth and energy,

     "Night closed around the ship; no sound
     Save of the splashing sea
     Was heard.  The waters all around
     Murmured so pleasantly,
     You would have thought the mermaids sung
     Down in their coral caves,
     So softly and so sweetly rang
     The music of the waves!"

Were such scenes always met with at sea, was its surface always smooth, the winds favorable
and the sky unclouded, little resolution or physical endurance would be required to navigate
the ocean; the energies which call THE SAILOR into life would no longer be necessary; the sea
would be covered with pleasure yachts of the most fanciful description, manned by exquisites
in snow-white gloves, propelled with silken sails, and decked with streamers, perhaps with
flowers, while their broad decks would be thronged with a gay and happy bevy, of both sexes
and every age, bent on pleasure and eager to enjoy the beauties of the sea.

But this attractive spectacle is sometimes changed with magical rapidity! The scene shifts;
and instead of gentle zephyrs and smooth seas, the elements pour forth all their pent-up wrath
on the devoted ship, and events are conjured into being which rouse into action the noblest
faculties of man. If the records of the sea were truly kept, they would tell of hurricanes,
shipwrecks, sufferings, and perils too numerous and appalling to be imagined, to struggle successfully
against which demands those manifestations of courage and energy, that, when witnessed on the
land, elicit the admiration of mankind. These chronicles, if faithfully kept, would tell of
desperate encounters, of piracies where whole crews were massacred, of dark deeds of cruelty
and oppression, of pestilence on shipboard, without medical aid and with no Florence Nightingale
to soothe the pains and whisper comfort and peace to the dying!

And what may be said of the mariners, the life-long actors on this strange, eventful theatre,
the sea, who perform their unwritten and unrecorded parts, face danger and death in every shape,
and are heard and seen no more? Is it remarkable that, estranged from the enjoyments which
cluster around the most humble fireside, and familiar with scenes differing so widely from
those met with on the land, they should acquire habits peculiar to themselves and form a character
of their own?

The failings of this isolated class of men are well known; a catalogue of their imperfections
is scattered abroad by every wind that blows; they are acknowledged, even by themselves, and
enlarged upon and exaggerated by those who know them not.

Those who are familiar with a seafaring life, and have had opportunities for analyzing the
character of the sailor, know that it possesses many brilliant spots as well as blemishes,
and that it would be cruel and unjust on the part of those more favored with the smiles of
fortune, to steel their hearts against sympathy for his sufferings, or respect for his intrinsic
worth.

