Excellent buildings were erected in the cantonments here and the camps overseas, which served
as centers for uplifting influences, meeting the deepest needs of the soldier's life. In the
battle zones were the temporary huts where the workers resided, placed as near the front lines
as the military authorities could permit. Many times the workers went into the most advanced
trenches with the soldiers, serving them tobacco, coffee, chocolate, etc., and doing their
utmost to keep up spirits and fighting morale. Much of the uniform good discipline and behavior
attributed to the Negro troops undoubtedly was due to the beneficial influence of the "Y" men
and women.

As an example of the way the work was conducted it is well to describe a staff organization
in one of the buildings.

It was composed of a building secretary, who was the executive; a religious work secretary,
who had charge of the religious activities, including personal work among the soldiers, Bible
class and religious meetings; an educational secretary, who promoted lectures, educational
classes and used whatever means he had at hand to encourage intellectual development, and a
physical secretary, who had charge of athletics and various activities for the physical welfare
of the soldiers. He worked in closest relationship with the military officers and often was
made responsible for all the sports and physical activities of the camp. Then there was a social
secretary, who promoted all the social diversions, including entertainments, stunts and motion
pictures, and a business secretary, who looked after the sales of stamps, post cards and such
supplies as were handled, and who was made responsible for the proper accounting of finances.

The secretaries were either specialists in their lines or were trained until they became such.
Some idea of their tasks and problems, and of the tact and ability they had to use in meeting
them, may be gained by a contemplation of the classes with which they had to deal. The selective
draft assembled the most remarkable army the world has ever seen. Men of all grades from the
most illiterate to the highly trained university graduate messed together and drilled side
by side daily. There were men who had grown up under the best of influences and others whose
environment had been 370TH or vicious, all thrown together in a common cause, wearing the same
uniform and obeying the same orders.

The social diversions brought out some splendid talent. A great feature was the singing. It
was essential that the secretary should be a leader in this and possessed of a good voice.
These were not difficult to find, as the race is naturally musical and most of them sing well.
Noted singers were sent to sing for the boys, but it is said that frequently the plan of the
entertainment was reversed, as they requested the privilege of listening to the boys sing.

A wonderful work was done by "Y" secretaries among the illiterates. Its fruits are already
apparent and will continue to multiply. They found men who hardly knew their right hand from
their left. Others who could not write their names are said to have wept with joy when taught
to master the simple accomplishment. Many a poor illiterate was given the rudiments of an education
and started on the way to higher attainments.

Headquarters of the overseas work was at Paris, France, and was in charge of E.C. Carter, formerly
Senior Student secretary in America, and when war was declared, held the position of National
Secretary of India. Much of the credit for the splendid performance of the "Y" workers abroad
belonged to him and to his able aid, Dr. John Hope, president of Morehouse college, Atlanta,
Ga. The latter went over in August, 1918, as a special overseer of the Negro Y.M.C.A.

Three distinguished Negro women were sent over as "Y" hostesses, with a secretarial rating,
during the war. Their work was so successful that twenty additional women to serve in the same
capacities were sent over after the close of hostilities. They were to serve as hostesses,
social secretaries and general welfare workers among the thousands of Negro soldiers who had
been retained there with the Army of Occupation and the Service of Supply.

The first Negro woman to go abroad in the Y.M.C.A. service was Mrs. Helen Curtis of 208 134th
Street, New York, in May, 1918. For a number of years she had been a member of the committee
of management of the Colored Women's Branch of the Y.M.C.A., and had assisted at the Camp Upton
hostess house. Her late husband, James L. Curtis, was minister resident and consul general
for the United States to Liberia. Mrs. Curtis lived in Monrovia, Liberia, until her husband's
death there. She had also lived in France, where she studied domestic art for two years. Being
a fluent speaker of the French language, her appointment was highly appropriate.

So successful was the appointment of Mrs. Curtis that another Negro secretary in the person
of Mrs. Addie Hunton of 575 Greene Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y., followed the next month. Her husband
was for many years senior secretary of the International Committee of the Y.M.C.A. Negro Men's
Department, and her own work had always been with the organization.

A short time later Miss Catherine Johnson of Greenville, Ohio, followed in the wake of Mrs.
Curtis and Mrs. Hunton. She is a sister of Dr. Johnson of Columbus, Ohio, appointed early in
1919 minister to Liberia.

No less successful at home than abroad was the work of the Y.M.C.A. among the Negroes in cantonments
and training camps. It is known that the services rendered by the Association to the officers'
training camp at Fort Des Moines had much to do with making that institution such a remarkable
success. From that time on comment was frequent that the best work being done by the Association
in many of the camps was done by Negro secretaries.

The heroic exploit of Professor Cook, the "Y" secretary, which secured him a recommendation
for the Distinguished Service Cross, is mentioned elsewhere. It was only equalled by the valiant
performance of A.T. Banks of Dayton, Ohio, a Negro "Y" secretary who went over the top with
the 368th Infantry. Secretary Banks, during the action, tarried to give aid to a wounded soldier.
The two were forced to remain all night in a shell hole. During the hours before darkness and
early the following morning they were targets for a German sniper. The secretary succeeded
in getting the wounded man back to the lines, where he then proceeded to organize a party to
go after the sniper. They not only silenced him, but rendered him unfit for any further action
on earth. Mr. Banks returned to America with the sniper's rifle as a souvenir. His work was
additionally courageous when it is considered that he was a non-combatant and not supposed
to engage in hostilities. Had he been taken by the Germans he would not have been accorded
the treatment of a prisoner of war, but undoubtedly would have been put to death.

Were the records sufficiently complete at the present time to divulge them, scores of examples
of valorous conduct on the part of the "Y" workers, Red Cross and other non-combatants who
ministered to Negro soldiers could be recounted. The work of all was of a noble character.
It was accompanied by a heroic spirit and in many cases by great personal bravery and sacrifice.

In 1917 and 1918 our cause demanded speed. Every day that could be saved from the period of
training meant a day gained in putting troops at the front.

Half of the men in the Army must be skilled at special trades in order to perform their military
duties. To form the units quickly and at the same time supply them with the technical ability
required, the Army had to avail itself of the trade knowledge and experience which the recruit
brought with him from civil life. To discover this talent and assign it to those organizations
where it was needed was the task of the Army Personnel organization.

The army could hardly have turned the tide of victory if it had been forced to train from the
beginning any large proportion of the technical workers it needed. Every combat division required
64 mechanical draughtsmen, 63 electricians, 142 linemen, 10 cable splicers, 156 radio operators,
29 switchboard operators, 167 telegraphers, 360 telephone repairmen, 52 leather and canvas
workers, 78 surveyors, 40 transitmen, 62 topographers, 132 auto mechanics, 128 machinists,
167 utility mechanics, 67 blacksmiths, 151 carpenters, 691 chauffeurs (auto and truck), 128
tractor operators and 122 truckmasters.

Besides these specialists each division required among its enlisted men those familiar with
68 other trades. Among the latter were dock builders, structural steel workers, bricklayers,
teamsters, hostlers, wagoners, axemen, cooks, bakers, musicians, saddlers, crane operators,
welders, rigging and cordage workers, stevedores and longshoremen. Add to these the specialists
required in the technical units of engineers, ordnance, air service, signal corps, tanks, motor
corps and all the services of supply, and the impossibility of increasing an army of 190,000
in March 1917, to an army of 3,665,000 in November, 1918, becomes apparent unless every skilled
man was used where skill was demanded.

To furnish tables showing the number of Negroes which the selective draft produced for the
various occupations mentioned was at the compilement of this work not practicable. In many
cases the figures for white and black had not been separated. The Army Personnel organization
did not get into the full swing of its work until well along in 1918.

A good general idea of the percentages of white and black can be gained from the late drafts
of that year. Figures for white drafts were not available with the exception of that of September
3rd. But a very fair comparison may be made from the following table showing some occupations
to which both whites and blacks were called. Take any of the three general service drafts made
upon Negro selectives and it makes a splendid showing alongside the whites. Out of 100,000
men used as a basis for computation, it shows that among the Negro selectives an average of
slightly over 25 percent were available for technical requirements, compared with slightly
over 36 percent among the whites. It reveals a high number of mechanics and craftsmen among
a race which in the minds of many has been regarded as made up almost entirely of unskilled
laborers:

Supply per 100,000 in late Negro drafts for general service, compared with supply of white
men in same occupations for the September 3rd draft:

                                             Misc. Figures Sept. 3

                                     Sept. 1    Sept 25  Upon        Draft
Occupation--                         Draft      Draft    59,826 Men  White

