Wednesday 13. The morning was cloudy, the thermometer at 2° below 0, the wind from the southeast.
Captain Clarke returned last evening with all his hunting party: during their excursion they
had killed forty deer, three buffaloe, and sixteen elk; but most of the game was too lean for
use, and the wolves, who regard whatever lies out at night as their own, had appropriated a
large part of it: when he left the fort on the 4th instant, he descended on the ice twenty-two
miles to New Mandan island, near some of their old villages, and encamped, having killed nothing,
and therefore without food for the night.

Early on the 5th, the hunters went out and killed two buffaloe and a deer, but the last only
could be used, the others being too lean. After breakfast they proceeded down to an Indian
lodge and hunted during the day: the next morning, 6th, they encamped forty-four miles from
the fort on a sand point near the mouth of a creek on the southwest side, which they call Hunting
creek, and during this and the following day hunted through all the adjoining plains, with
much success, having killed a number of deer and elk. On the 8th, the best of the meat was
sent with the horses to the fort, and such parts of the remainder as were fit for use were
brought to a point of the river three miles below, and after the bones were taken out, secured
in pens built of logs, so as to keep off the wolves, ravens and magpies, who are very numerous
and constantly disappoint the hunter of his prey: they then went to the low grounds near the
Chisshetaw river where they encamped, but saw nothing except some wolves on the hills, and
a number of buffaloe too poor to be worth hunting. The next morning 9th, as there was no game
and it would have been inconvenient to send it back sixty miles to the fort, they returned
up the river, and for three days hunted along the banks and plains, and reached the fort in
the evening of the twelfth much fatigued, having walked thirty miles that day on the ice and
through the snow in many places knee deep, the moccasins too being nearly worn out: the only
game which they saw besides what is mentioned, was some growse on the sandbars in the river.

Thursday 14. Last night the snow fell three inches deep; the day was, however, fine. Four men
were despatched with sleds and three horses to bring up the meat which had been collected by
the hunters. They returned however, with intelligence that about twenty-one miles below the
fort a party of upwards of one hundred men, whom they supposed to be Sioux, rushed on them,
cut the traces of the sleds, and carried off two of the horses, the third being given up by
intercession of an Indian who seemed to possess some authority over them; they also took away
two of the men's knifes, and a tomahawk, which last however they returned. We sent up to the
Mandans to inform them of it, and to know whether any of them would join a party which intended
to pursue the robbers in the morning. About twelve o'clock two of their chiefs came down and
said that all their young men were out hunting, and that there were few guns in the village.
Several Indians however, armed some with bows and arrows, some with spears and battle-axes,
and two with fusils, accompanied captain Lewis, who set out,

Friday 15, at sunrise with twenty-four men. The morning was fine and cool, the thermometer
being at 16° below 0. In the course of the day one of the Mandan chiefs returned from captain
Lewis's party, his eye-sight having become so bad that he could not proceed. At this season
of the year the reflexion from the ice and snow is so intense as to occasion almost total blindness.
This complaint is very common, and the general remedy is to sweat the part affected by holding
the face over a hot stone, and receiving the fumes from snow thrown on it. A large red fox
was killed to-day.

Saturday 16. The morning was warm, mercury at 32° above 0, the weather cloudy: several of the
Indians who went with captain Lewis returned, as did also one of our men, whose feet had been
frostbitten.

Sunday 17. The weather continued as yesterday, though in the afternoon it became fair. Shotawhorora
and his son came to see us, with about thirty pounds of dried buffaloe meat and some tallow.

Monday 18. The morning was cloudy with some snow, but in the latter part of the day it cleared
up. Mr. M'Kenzie who had spent yesterday at the fort now left us. Our stock of meat is exhausted,
so that we must confine ourselves to vegetable diet, at least till the return of the party:
for this, however, we are at no loss, since both on this and the following day,

Tuesday 19, our blacksmith got large quantities of corn from the Indians who came in great
numbers to see us. The weather was fair and warm, the wind from the south.

Wednesday, 20th. The day was delightfully fine; the mercury being at sunrise 2° and in the
course of the day 22° above 0, the wind southerly. Kagohami came down to see us early: his
village is afflicted by the death of one of their eldest men, who from his account to us must
have seen one hundred and twenty winters. Just as he was dying, he requested his grandchildren
to dress him in his best robe when he was dead, and then carry him on a hill and seat him on
a stone, with his face down the river towards their old villages, that he might go straight
to his brother who had passed before him to the ancient village under ground. We have seen
a number of Mandans who have lived to a great age; chiefly however the men, whose robust exercises
fortify the body, while the laborious occupations of the women shorten their existence.

Thursday 21. We had a continuation of the same pleasant weather. Oheenaw and Shahaka came down
to see us, and mentioned that several of their countrymen had gone to consult their medicine
stone as to the prospects of the following year. The Minnetarees have a stone of a similar
kind, which has the same qualities and the same influence over the nation. Captain Lewis returned
from his excursion in pursuit of the Indians. On reaching the place where the Sioux had stolen
our horses, they found only one sled, and several pair of moccasins which were recognised to
be those of the Sioux. The party then followed the Indian tracks till they reached two old
lodges where they slept, and the next morning pursued the course of the river till they reached
some Indian camps, where captain Clarke passed the night some time ago, and which the Sioux
had now set on fire, leaving a little corn near the place in order to induce a belief that
they were Ricaras. From this point the Sioux tracks left the river abruptly and crossed into
the plains; but perceiving that there was no chance of overtaking them, captain Lewis went
down to the pen where captain Clarke had left some meat, which he found untouched by the Indians,
and then hunted in the low grounds on the river, till he returned with about three thousand
pounds of meat, some drawn in a sled by fifteen of the men, and the rest on horseback; having
killed thirty-six deer, fourteen elk, and one wolf.

Friday, 22nd. The morning was cloudy and a little snow fell, but in the afternoon the weather
became fair. We were visited by a number of Indians, among whom was Shotawhorora, a chief of
much consideration among the Mandan, although by birth a Ricara.

Saturday, 23d. The day is warm and pleasant. Having worked industriously yesterday and all
this morning we were enabled to disengage one of the periogues and haul it on shore, and also
nearly to cut out the second. The father of the boy whose foot had been so badly frozen, and
whom we had now cured, came to-day and carried him home in a sleigh.

Sunday, 24th. The weather is again fine. We succeeded in loosening the second periogue and
barge, though we found a leak in the latter. The whole of the next day,

Monday, 25th, we were occupied in drawing up the boats on the bank: the smallest one we carried
there with no difficulty, but the barge was too heavy for our elk-skin ropes which constantly
broke. We were visited by Orupsehara, or Black Moccasin, and several other chiefs, who brought
us presents of meat on the backs of their squaws, and one of the Minnetarees requested and
obtained permission for himself and his two wives to remain all night in the fort. The day
was exceedingly pleasant.

Tuesday 26. The weather is again fine. By great labour during the day we got all the boats
on the bank by sunset, an operation which attracted a great number of Indians to the fort.

Wednesday 27. The weather continues fine. All of us employed in preparing tools to build boats
for our voyage, as we find that small periogues will be much more convenient than the barge
in ascending the Missouri.

Thursday 28. The day is clear and pleasant. Sixteen men were sent out to examine the country
for trees suitable for boats, and were successful in finding them. Two of the N.W. company
traders arrived with letters; they had likewise a root which is used for the cure of persons
bitten by mad dogs, snakes, and other venomous animals: it is found on high grounds and the
sides of hills, and the mode of using it is to scarify the wound, and apply to it an inch or
more of the chewed or pounded root, which is to be renewed twice a day; the patient must not
however chew or swallow any of the root, as an inward application might be rather injurious
than beneficial.

Mr. Gravelines with two Frenchmen and two Indians arrived from the Ricara nation, with letters
from Mr. Anthony Tabeau. This last gentleman informs us that the Ricaras express their determination
to follow our advice, and to remain at peace with the Mandans and Minnetarees, whom they are
desirous of visiting; they also wish to know whether these nations would permit the Ricaras
to settle near them, and form a league against their common enemies the Sioux. On mentioning
this to the Mandans they agreed to it, observing that they always desired to cultivate friendship
with the Ricaras, and that the Ahnahaways and Minnetarees have the same friendly views.

Mr. Gravelines states that the band of Tetons whom we had seen was well disposed to us, owing
to the influence of their chief the Black Buffaloe; but that the three upper bands of Tetons,
with the Sisatoons, and the Yanktons of the north, mean soon to attack the Indians in this
quarter, with a resolution to put to death every white man they encounter. Moreover, that Mr.
Cameron of St. Peter's has armed the Sioux against the Chippeways, who have lately put to death
three of his men. The men who had stolen our horses we found to be all Sioux, who after committing
the outrage went to the Ricara villages, where they said that they had hesitated about killing
our men who were with the horses, but that in future they would put to death any of us they
could, as we were bad medicines and deserved to be killed. The Ricaras were displeased at their
conduct and refused to give them any thing to eat, which is deemed the greatest act of hostility
short of actual violence.

Friday, March 1. The day is fine, and the whole party is engaged, some in making ropes and
periogues, others in burning coal, and making battle axes to sell for corn.

Saturday 2. Mr. Laroche one of the N.W. company's traders has just arrived with merchandise
from the British establishments on the Assiniboin. The day is fine, and the river begins to
break up in some places, the mercury being between 28° and 36° above 0, and the wind from the
N.E. We were visited by several Indians.

Sunday 3. The weather pleasant, the wind from the E. with clouds; in the afternoon the clouds
disappeared and the wind came from the N.W. The men are all employed in preparing the boats;
we are visited by Poscapsahe and several other Indians with corn. A flock of ducks passed up
the river to-day.

Monday 4. A cloudy morning with N.W. wind, the latter part of the day clear. We had again some
Indian visitors with a small present of meat. The Assiniboins, who a few days since visited
the Mandans, returned, and attempted to take horses from the Minnetarees, who fired on them;
a circumstance which may occasion some disturbance between the two nations.

Tuesday 5. About four o'clock in the morning there was a slight fall of snow, but the day became
clear and pleasant with the mercury 40° above 0. We sent down an Indian and a Frenchman to
the Ricara villages with a letter to Mr. Tabeau.

Wednesday 6. The day was cloudy and smoky in consequence of the burning of the plains by the
Minnetarees; they have set all the neighbouring country on fire in order to obtain an early
crop of grass which may answer for the consumption of their horses, and also as an inducement
for the buffaloe and other game to visit it. The horses stolen two days ago by the Assiniboins
have been returned to the Minnetarees. Ohhaw second chief of the lower Minnetaree village came
to see us. The river rose a little and overran the ice, so as to render the crossing difficult.

Thursday, 7th. The day was somewhat cloudy, and colder than usual; the wind from the northeast.
Shotawhorora visited us with a sick child, to whom some medicine was administered. There were
also other Indians who brought corn and dried buffaloe meat in exchange for blacksmith's work.

Friday 8. The day cold and fair with a high easterly wind: we were visited by two Indians who
gave us an account of the country and people near the Rocky mountains where they had been.

Saturday 9. The morning cloudy and cool, the wind from the north. The grand chief of the Minnetarees,
who is called by the French Le Borgne, from his having but one eye, came down for the first
time to the fort. He was received with much attention, two guns were fired in honour of his
arrival, the curiosities were exhibited to him, and as he said that he had not received the
presents which we had sent to him on his arrival, we again gave him a flag, a medal, shirt,
armbraces and the usual presents on such occasions, with all which he was much pleased. In
the course of the conversation, the chief observed that some foolish young men of his nation
had told him there was a person among us who was quite black, and he wished to know if it could
be true. We assured him that it was true, and sent for York: the Borgne was very much surprised
at his appearance, examined him closely, and spit on his finger and rubbed the skin in order
to wash off the paint; nor was it until the negro uncovered his head, and showed his short
hair, that the Borgne could be persuaded that he was not a painted white man.

Sunday 10. A cold windy day. Tetuckopinreha, chief of the Ahnahaways, and the Minnetaree chief
Ompsehara, passed the day with us, and the former remained during the night. We had occasion
to see an instance of the summary justice of the Indians: a young Minnetaree had carried off
the daughter of Cagonomokshe, the Raven Man, second chief of the upper village of the Mandans;
the father went to the village and found his daughter, whom he brought home, and took with
him a horse belonging to the offender: this reprisal satisfied the vengeance of the father
and of the nation, as the young man would not dare to reclaim his horse, which from that time
became the property of the injured party. The stealing of young women is one of the most common
offenses against the police of the village, and the punishment of it always measured by the
power or the passions of the kindred of the female. A voluntary elopement is of course more
rigorously chastised. One of the wives of the Borgne deserted him in favour of a man who had
been her lover before the marriage, and who after some time left her, and she was obliged to
return to her father's house. As soon as he heard it the Borgne walked there and found her
sitting near the fire: without noticing his wife, he began to smoke with the father; when they
were joined by the old men of the village, who knowing his temper had followed in hopes of
appeasing him. He continued to smoke quietly with them, till rising to return, he took his
wife by the hair, led her as far as the door, and with a single stroke of his tomahawk put
her to death before her father's eyes: then turning fiercely upon the spectators, he said that
if any of her relations wished to avenge her, they might always find him at his lodge; but
the fate of the woman had not sufficient interest to excite the vengeance of the family. The
caprice or the generosity of the same chief gave a very different result to a similar incident
which occurred some time afterwards. Another of his wives eloped with a young man, who not
being able to support her as she wished they both returned to the village, and she presented
herself before the husband, supplicating his pardon for her conduct: the Borgne sent for the
lover: at the moment when the youth expected that he would be put to death, the chief mildly
asked them if they still preserved their affection for each other; and on their declaring that
want, and not a change of affection had induced them to return, he gave up his wife to her
lover, with the liberal present of three horses, and restored them both to his favour.

Monday 11. The weather was cloudy in the morning and a little snow fell, the wind then shifted
from southeast to northwest and the day became fair. It snowed again in the evening, but the
next day,

Tuesday 12, was fair with the wind from the northwest.

Wednesday 13. We had a fine day, and a southwest wind. Mr. M'Kenzie came to see us, as did
also many Indians who are so anxious for battle-axes that our smiths have not a moment's leisure,
and procure us an abundance of corn. The river rose a little to-day, and so continued.

Thursday 14. The wind being from the west, and the day fine, the whole party were employed
in building boats and in shelling corn.

Friday 15. The day is clear, pleasant and warm. We take advantage of the fine weather to hang
all our Indian presents and other articles out to dry before our departure.

Saturday 16. The weather is cloudy, the wind from the southeast. A Mr. Garrow, a Frenchman
who has resided a long time among the Ricaras and Mandans, explained to us the mode in which
they make their large beads, an art which they are said to have derived from some prisoners
of the Snake Indian nation, and the knowledge of which is a secret even now confined to a few
among the Mandans and Ricaras: the process is as follows: glass of different colours is first
pounded fine and washed, till each kind, which is kept separate, ceases to stain the water
thrown over it: some well seasoned clay, mixed with a sufficient quantity of sand to prevent
its becoming very hard when exposed to heat, and reduced by water to the consistency of dough,
is then rolled on the palm of the hand, till it becomes of the thickness wanted for the hole
in the bead; these sticks of clay are placed upright, each on a little pedestal or ball of
the same material about an ounce in weight, and distributed over a small earthen platter, which
is laid on the fire for a few minutes, when they are taken off to cool: with a little paddle
or shovel three or four inches long and sharpened at the end of the handle, the wet pounded
glass is placed in the palm of the hand: the beads are made of an oblong form wrapped in a
cylindrical form round the stick of clay which is laid crosswise over it, and gently rolled
backwards and forwards till it becomes perfectly smooth. If it be desired to introduce any
other colour, the surface of the bead is perforated with the pointed end of the paddle and
the cavity filled with pounded glass of that colour: the sticks with the string of beads are
then replaced on their pedestals, and the platter deposited on burning coals or hot embers:
over the platter an earthern pot containing about three gallons, with a mouth large enough
to cover the platter, is reversed, being completely closed except a small aperture at the top,
through which are watched the bead: a quantity of old dried wood formed into a sort of dough
or paste is placed round the pot so as almost to cover it, and afterwards set on fire: the
manufacturer then looks through the small hole in the pot, till he sees the beads assume a
deep red colour, to which succeeds a paler or whitish red, or they become pointed at the upper
extremity; on which the fire is removed and the pot suffered to cool gradually: at length it
is removed, the beads taken out, the clay in the hollow of them picked out with an awl or needle,
and it is then fit for use. The beads thus formed are in great demand among the Indians, and
used as pendants to their ears and hair, and are sometimes worn round the neck.

Sunday 17. A windy but clear and pleasant day, the river rising a little and open in several
places. Our Minnetaree interpreter Chaboneau, whom we intended taking with us to the Pacific,
had some days ago been worked upon by the British traders, and appeared unwilling to accompany
us, except on certain terms; such as his not being subject to our orders, and do duty, or to
return whenever he chose. As we saw clearly the source of his hesitation, and knew that it
was intended as an obstacle to our views, we told him that the terms were inadmissible, and
that we could dispense with his services: he had accordingly left us with some displeasure.
Since then he had made an advance towards joining us, which we showed no anxiety to meet; but
this morning he sent an apology for his improper conduct, and agreed to go with us and perform
the same duties as the rest of the corps; we therefore took him again into our service.

Monday 18. The weather was cold and cloudy, the wind from the north. We were engaged in packing
up the goods into eight divisions, so as to preserve a portion of each in case of accident.
We hear that the Sioux have lately attacked a party of Assiniboins and Knistenaux, near the
Assiniboin river, and killed fifty of them.

Tuesday 19. Some snow fell last night, and this morning was cold, windy, and cloudy. Shahaka
and Kagohami came down to see us, as did another Indian with a sick child, to whom we gave
some medicine. There appears to be an approaching war, as two parties have already gone from
the Minnetarees, and a third is preparing.

Wednesday 20. The morning was cold and cloudy, the wind high from the north, but the afternoon
was pleasant. The canoes being finished, four of them were carried down to the river, at the
distance of a mile and a half from where they were constructed.

Thursday 20. The remaining periogues were hauled to the same place, and all the men except
three, who were left to watch them returned to the fort. On his way down, which was about six
miles, captain Clarke passed along the points of the high hills, where he saw large quantities
of pumicestone on the foot, sides and tops of the hills, which had every appearance of having
been at some period on fire. He collected specimens of the stone itself, the pumicestone, and
the hard earth; and on being put into the furnace the hard earth melted and glazed, the pumicestone
melted, and the hardstone became a pumicestone glazed. This was a clear pleasant day, with
the wind from the S.S.W. We were visited by the second chief of the Minnetarees, to whom we
gave a medal and some presents, accompanied by a speech. Mr. M'Kenzie and Mr. Laroche also
came to see us. They all took their leave next day.

Saturday 23. Soon after their departure, a brother of the Borgne with other Indians came to
the fort. The weather was fine, but in the evening we had the first rain that has fallen during
the winter.

Sunday 24. The morning cloudy, but the afternoon fair, the wind from the N.E. We are employed
in preparing for our journey. This evening swans and wild geese flew towards the N.E.

Monday 25. A fine day, the wind S.W. The river rose nine inches, and the ice began breaking
away in several places, so as to endanger our canoes which we are hauling down to the fort.

Tuesday 26. The river rose only half an inch, and being choaked up with ice near the fort,
did not begin to run till towards evening. This day is clear and pleasant.

Wednesday 27. The wind is still high from the S.W.: the ice which is ocasionally stopped for
a few hours is then thrown over shallow sandbars when the river runs. We had all our canoes
brought down, and were obliged to cauk and pitch very attentively the cracks so common in cottonwood.

Thursday 28. The day is fair. Some obstacle above has prevented the ice from running. Our canoes
are now nearly ready, and we expect to set out as soon as the river is sufficiently clear to
permit us to pass.

Friday 29. The weather clear, and the wind from N.W. The obstruction above gave way this morning,
and the ice came down in great quantities; the river having fallen eleven inches in the course
of the last twenty-four hours. We have had few Indians at the fort for the last three or four
days, as they are now busy in catching the floating buffaloe. Every spring as the river is
breaking up the surrounding plains are set on fire, and the buffaloe tempted to cross the river
in search of the fresh grass which immediately succeeds to the burning: on their way they are
often insulated on a large cake or mass of ice, which floats down the river: the Indians now
select the most favourable points for attack, and as the buffaloe approaches dart with astonishing
agility across the trembling ice, sometimes pressing lightly a cake of not more than two feet
square: the animal is of course unsteady, and his footsteps insecure on this new element, so
that he can make but little resistance, and the hunter, who has given him his death wound,
paddles his icy boat to the shore and secures his prey.

Saturday 30. The day was clear and pleasant, the wind N.W. and the ice running in great quantities.
All our Indian presents were again exposed to the air, and the barge made ready to descend
the Missouri.

Monday 31. Early this morning it rained, and the weather continued cloudy during the day; the
river rose nine inches, the ice not running so much as yesterday. Several flocks of geese and
ducks fly up the river.

Monday, April 1, 1805. This morning there was a thunder storm, accompanied with large hail,
to which succeeded rain for about half an hour. We availed ourselves of this interval to get
all the boats in the water. At four o'clock P.M. it began to rain a second time, and continued
till twelve at night. With the exception of a few drops at two or three different times, this
is the first rain we have had since the 15th of October last.

Tuesday 2. The wind was high last night and this morning from N.W. and the weather continued
cloudy. The Mandans killed yesterday twenty-one elk, about fifteen miles below, but they were
so poor as to be scarcely fit for use.

Wednesday 3. The weather is pleasant, though there was a white frost and some ice on the edge
of the water. We were all engaged in packing up our baggage and merchandize.

Thursday 4. The day is clear and pleasant, though the wind is high from N.W. We now packed
up in different boxes a variety of articles for the president, which we shall send in the barge.
It has of late years excited much discussion to ascertain the period when the art of painting
was first discovered: how hopeless all researches of this kind are, is evident from the foregoing
fact. It is indebted for its origin to one of the strongest passions of the human heart; a
wish to preserve the features of a departed friend, or the memory of some glorious exploit:
this inherits equally the bosoms of all men either civilized or savage.

Friday, 5th. Fair and pleasant, but the wind high from the northwest: we were visited by a
number of Mandans, and are occupied in loading our boats in order to proceed on our journey.

Saturday, 6th. Another fine day with a gentle breeze from the south. The Mandans continue to
come to the fort; and in the course of the day informed us of the arrival of a party of Ricaras
on the other side of the river. We sent our interpreter to inquire into their reason for coming;
and in the morning,

Sunday, 7th, he returned with a Ricara chief and three of his nation. The chief, whose name
is Kagohweto, or Brave Raven, brought a letter from Mr. Tabeau, mentioning the wish of the
grand chiefs of the Ricaras to visit the president, and requesting permission for himself and
four men to join our boat when it descends; to which we consented, as it will then be manned
with fifteen hands and be able to defend itself against the Sioux. After presenting the letter,
he told us that he was sent with ten warriors by his nation to arrange their settling near
the Mandans and Minnetarees, whom they wished to join; that he considered all the neighboring
nations friendly except the Sioux, whose persecution they would no longer withstand, and whom
they hoped to repel by uniting with the tribes in this quarter: he added that the Ricaras intended
to follow our advice and live in peace with all nations, and requested that we would speak
in their favour to the Assiniboin Indians. This we willingly promised to do, and assured them
that their great father would protect them and no longer suffer the Sioux to have good guns,
or to injure his dutiful children. We then gave him a small medal, a certificate of his good
conduct, a carrot of tobacco, and some wampum, with which he departed for the Mandan village
well satisfied with his reception. Having made all our arrangements, we left the fort about
five o'clock in the afternoon. The party now consisted of thirty-two persons. Besides ourselves
were serjeants John Ordway, Nathaniel Pryor, and Patrick Gass: the privates were William Bratton,
John Colter, John Collins, Peter Cruzatte, Robert Frazier, Reuben Fields, Joseph Fields, George
Gibson, Silas Goodrich, Hugh Hall, Thomas P. Howard, Baptiste Lapage, Francis Labiche, Hugh
M'Neal, John Potts, John Shields, George Shannon, John B. Thompson, William Werner, Alexander
Willard, Richard Windsor, Joseph Whitehouse, Peter Wiser, and captain Clarke's black servant
York. The two interpreters, were George Drewyer and Toussaint Chaboneau. The wife of Chaboneau
also accompanied us with her young child, and we hope may be useful as an interpreter among
the Snake Indians. She was herself one of that tribe, but having been taken in war by the Minnetarees,
by whom she was sold as a slave to Chaboneau, who brought her up and afterwards married her.
One of the Mandans likewise embarked with us, in order to go to the Snake Indians and obtain
a peace with them for his countrymen. All this party with the baggage was stowed in six small
canoes and two large periogues. We left the fort with fair pleasant weather though the northwest
wind was high, and after making about four miles encamped on the north side of the Missouri,
nearly opposite the first Mandan village. At the same time that we took our departure, our
barge manned with seven soldiers, two Frenchmen, and Mr. Gravelines as pilot, sailed for the
United States loaded with our presents and despatches.

Monday, 8th. The day was clear and cool, the wind from the northwest, so that we travelled
slowly. After breakfasting at the second Mandan village we passed the Mahaha at the mouth of
Knife river, a handsome stream about eighty yards wide. Beyond this we reached the island which
captain Clarke had visited on the 30th October. This island has timber as well as the lowlands
on the north, but its distance from the water had prevented our encamping there during the
winter. From the head of this island we made three and a half miles to a point of wood on the
north, passing a high bluff on the south, and having come about fourteen miles. In the course
of the day one of our boats filled and was near sinking; we however saved her with the loss
of a little biscuit and powder.

Tuesday, April 9. We set off as soon as it was light, and proceeded five miles to breakfast,
passing a low ground on the south, covered with groves of cottonwood timber. At the distance
of six miles, we reached on the north a hunting camp of Minnetarees consisting of thirty lodges,
and built in the usual form of earth and timber. Two miles and a quarter farther, comes in
on the same side Miry creek, a small stream about ten yards wide, which, rising in some lakes
near the Mouse river, passes through beautiful level fertile plains without timber in a direction
nearly southwest; the banks near its entrance being steep, and rugged on both sides of the
Missouri. Three miles above this creek we came to a hunting party of Minnetarees, who had prepared
a park or inclosure and were waiting the return of the antelope: this animal, which in the
autumn retires for food and shelter to the Black mountains during the winter, recross the river
at this season of the year, and spread themselves through the plains on the north of the Missouri.
We halted and smoked a short time with them, and then proceeded on through handsome plains
on each side of the river, and encamped at the distance of twenty-three and a half miles on
the north side: the day was clear and pleasant, the wind high from the south, but afterwards
changed to a western steady breeze. The bluffs which we passed to-day are upwards of one hundred
feet high, composed of a mixture of yellow clay and sand, with many horizontal strata of carbonated
wood resembling pit-coal, from one to five feet in depth, and scattered through the bluff at
different elevations, some as high as eighty feet above the water: the hills along the river
are broken, and present every appearance of having been burned at some former period; great
quantities of pumicestone and lava or rather earth, which seems to have been boiled and then
hardened by exposure, being seen in many parts of these hills where they are broken and washed
down into gullies by the rain and melting snow. Its flavour as well as the stalk which issues
from it resemble those of the Jerusalem artichoke, except that the latter is much larger. A
large beaver was caught in a trap last night, and the musquitoes begin to trouble us.

Wednesday 10. We again set off early with clear pleasant weather, and halted about ten for
breakfast, above a sandbank which was falling in, and near a small willow island. At the distance
of twelve miles we reached the lower point of a bluff on the south; which is in some parts
on fire and throws out quantities of smoke which has a strong sulphurous smell, the coal and
other appearances in the bluffs being like those described yesterday: at one o'clock we overtook
three Frenchmen who left the fort a few days before us, in order to make the first attempt
on this river of hunting beaver, which they do by means of traps: their efforts promise to
be successful for they have already caught twelve which are finer than any we have ever seen:
they mean to accompany us as far as the Yellowstone river in order to obtain our protection
against the Assiniboins who might attack them. In the evening we encamped on a willow point
to the south opposite to a bluff, above which a small creek falls in, and just above a remarkable
bend in the river to the southwest, which we called the Little Basin. The low grounds which
we passed to-day possess more timber than is usual, and are wider: the current is moderate,
at least not greater than that of the Ohio in high tides; the banks too fall in but little;
so that the navigation comparatively with that lower down the Missouri is safe and easy. We
were enabled to make eighteen and a half miles: we saw the track of a large white bear, there
were also a herd of antelopes in the plains; the geese and swan are now feeding in considerable
quantities on the young grass in the low prairies; we shot a prairie hen, and a bald eagle
of which there were many nests in the tall cottonwood trees; but could procure neither of two
elk which were in the plain. Our old companions the musquitoes have renewed their visit, and
gave us much uneasiness.

Thursday, 11th. We set out at daylight, and after passing bare and barren hills on the south,
and a plain covered with timber on the north, breakfasted at five miles distance: here we were
regaled with a deer brought in by the hunters, which was very acceptable as we had been for
several days without fresh meat; the country between this and fort Mandan being so frequently
disturbed by hunters that the game has become scarce. We then proceeded with a gentle breeze
from the south which carried the periogues on very well; the day was however so warm that several
of the men worked with no clothes except round the waist, which is the less inconvenient as
we are obliged to wade in some places owing to the shallowness of the river. At seven miles
we reached a large sandbar making out from the north. We again stopped for dinner, after which
we went on to a small plain on the north covered with cottonwood where we encamped, having
made nineteen miles. A beaver was caught last night by one of the Frenchmen; we killed two
geese, and saw some cranes, the largest bird of that kind common to the Missouri and Mississippi,
and perfectly white except the large feathers on the two first joints of the wing which are
black. Under a bluff opposite to our encampment we discovered some Indians with horses, whom
we supposed were Minnetarees, but the width of the river prevented our speaking to them.

