"Say--ain't you got no feelings, you idjiot?"

"Oh--" said Seffy. And then: "But what's feelings got to do with cow-pasture?"

"Oach! No wonder he wants to be an anchel, and wiss the anchels stand--holding sings in his
hands and on his head! He's too good for this wile world. He'd linger shifering on the brink
and fear to launch away all his durn life--if some one didn't push him in. So here goes!"

This was spoken to the skies, apparently, but now he turned to his son again.

"Look a-yere, you young dummer-ux,[2] feelings is the same to gals like Sally, as money is
to you and me. You ken buy potatoes wiss 'em! Do you understand?"

Seffy said that he did, now.

"Well, then, I'fe tried to buy that pasture-field a sousand times--"

Seffy started.

"Yas, that's a little bit a lie--mebby a dozen times. And at last Sally's daddy said he'd lick
me if I efer said pasture-field ag'in, and I said it ag'in and he licked me! He was a big man--and
red-headed yit, like Sally. Now, look a-yere--you ken git that pasture-field wissout money
and wissout price--except you' dam' feelings which ain't no other use. Sally won't lick you--if
she is bigger--don't be a-skeered. You got tons of feelin's you ain't got no other use for--don't
waste 'em--they're good green money, and we'll git efen wiss Sally's daddy for licking me yit--and
somesing on the side! Huh?"

[Footnote 2: Dumb ox--a term of reproach.]

At last it was evident that Seffy fully understood, and his father broke into that discordant
whistle once more.

"A gal that ken jump a six-rail fence--and wissout no running start--don't let her git apast you!"

"Well, I'm going to set up with her to-night," said Seffy again, with a huge ahem. And the
tune his father whistled as he opened the door for him sounded something like "I want to be
an angel."

"But not to buy no pasture-land!" warned Seffy.

"Oach, no, of course not!" agreed his wily old father. "That's just one of my durn jokes. But
I expect I'll take the fence down to-morrow! Say, Sef, you chust marry the gal. I'll take keer
the fence!"

III

It took Seffy a long time to array himself as he had threatened. And when it was all done you
wouldn't have known him--you wouldn't have cared to know him. For his fine yellow hair was
changed to an ugly brown by the patent hair-oil with which he had dressed it--and you would
not have liked its fragrance, I trust. Bergamot, I think it was. His fine young throat was
garroted within a starched standing collar, his feet were pinched in creaking boots, his hands
close-gauntleted in buckskin gloves, and he altogether incomparable, uncomfortable, and triumphant.

Down stairs his father paced the floor, watch in hand. From time to time he would call out
the hour, like a watchman on a minaret. At last:

"Look a-yere, Seffy, it's about two inches apast seven--and by the time you git there--say,
nefer gif another feller a chance to git there afore you or to leave after you!"

Seffy descended at that moment with his hat poised in his left hand.

His father dropped his watch and picked it up.

Both stood at gaze for a moment.

"Sunder, Sef! You as beautiful as the sun, moon and stars--and as stinky as seferal apothecary
shops. Yere, take the watch and git along--so's you haf some time wiss you--now git along!
You late a'ready. Goshens! You wass behind time when you wass born! Yas, your mammy wass disapp'inted
in you right at first. You wass seventy-six hours late! But now you reformed--sank God! I always
knowed it wass a cure for it, but I didn't know it wass anysing as nice as Sally."

Seffy issued forth to his first conquest--lighted as far as the front gate by the fat lamp
held in his father's hand.

"A--Sef--Seffy, shall I set up for you tell you git home?" he called into the dark.

"No!" shouted Seffy.

"Aha--aha--aha! That sounds right! Don't you forgit when you bose--well--comfortable--aha--aha!
Mebby on one cheer aha--ha-ha. And we'll bose take the fence down to-morrow. Mebby all three!"

AN ARCHÆOLOGICAL CONGRESS

BY ROBERT J. BURDETTE

    "'There's none can tell about my birth
    For I'm as old as the big round earth;
    Ye young Immortals clear the track,
    I'm the bearded Joke on the Carpet tack."

    Thus spoke
    A Joke
    With boastful croak;
    And as he said,
    Upon his head
    He stood, and waited for the tread
    Of thoughtless wight,
    Who, in the night,
    Gets up, arrayed in garments white,
    And indiscreet,
    With unshod feet,
    Prowls round for something good to eat.

    But other Jokes
    His speech provokes;
    And old, and bald, and lame, and gray,
    With loftiest scorn they say him Nay;
    And bid him hold his unweaned tongue,
    For they were blind ere he was young.
    So hot
    They grew,
    This complot
    Crew,
    They laid a plan
    To catch a Man;
    That all the clan
    Might then trepan
    His skull with Jokes; they thus began:

    First Mule, his heel its skill to try,
      Amid his ribs like lightning laid--
    And back recoiled--he well knew why;
      "Insurance Man," he faintly sayed.

    Next Stove Pipe rushed, as hot as fire,
      "Put up!" he cried, in accents bold;
    With Elbow joint he struck the lyre,
      And knocked the Weather Prophet cold.

    But thou, Ice Cream, with hair so gray,
      Three thousand years before the Flood,
    Cold, bitter cold, will be the day
      Thou dost not warm the Jester's blood.
    "Spoons for the spooney," was her ancient song,
    That with slow measure dragged its deathless length along.

    And longer had she sung, but with a frown,
      Old Pie, impatient, rose
    And roared, "Behold, I am the Funny Clown!
      And without me there is no Joke that goes.

    "To every Jester in the land,
    I lend my omnipresent hand;
    I've filled in Jokes of every grade
    Since ever Jokes and Pies were made;
    Sewed, pegged and pasted, glued or cast,
    If not the first of Jokes, I'll be the last."

    With heart unripe and mottled hide,
    Pale summer watermeloncholly sighed,
    And--but the Muse would find it vain
    To give a list of all the train;
    The hairless, purblind, toothless crew,
    That burst on Man's astonished view--
    The Bull dog and the Garden gate;
    The Girl's Papa in wrathful state;
    Ma'ma in law; the Leathern Clam;
    The Woodshed Cat; the Rampant Ram;
    The Fly, the Goat, the Skating Rink,
    The Paste-brush plunging in the Ink;
    The Baby wailing in the Dark;
    The Songs they sang upon the Ark;
    Things that were old when Earth was new,
    And as they lived still old and older grew,
    And as these Jokes about him cried,
    And all their Ancient Arts upon him tried,
    Their hapless victim, Man, lay down and died.

A BOY'S VIEW OF IT

BY FRANK L. STANTON

    Mother--she's always a-sayin', she is,
      Boys must be looked after--got to be strict;
    When I tear my breeches like Billy tears his,
      It helps 'em considerable when I am licked!
    But it ain't leapin' over the fence or the post--
    It's jest that same lickin' 'at tears 'em the most!

    Mother--she's always a-sayin' to me,
      Boys must have people to foller 'em roun';
    Never kin tell where they're goin' to be;
      Sure to git lost, an' then have to be foun'.
    An' then--when they find 'em, they're so full of joy
    They can't keep from lovin' an' lickin' the boy!

    There's Jimmy Johnson--got lost on the road;
      Daddy wuz drivin' to market one day,
    Fell out the wagon, an' nobody knowed
      Till they come to a halt, an' his daddy said: "Hey!
    Wonder where Jimmy is gone to?" But Jim--
    Warn't no two hosses could keep up with him!

    Jest kept a-goin', an' got to a place
      Where wuz a circus; took up with the clown,
    Cut off his ringlets and painted his face,
      An' then come right back to his daddy's own town!
    An' what do you reckon? His folks didn't know,
    An' paid to see Jimmy that night in the show!

    An' there's Billy Jenkins--he jest run away
      (Folks at his house wuzn't treatin' him right);
    Went to the place where the red Injuns stay;
      An' once, when his daddy wuz travelin' at night
    An' the Injuns took after him, hollerin' loud,
    Bill run to his rescue, an' scalped the whole crowd!

    No use in talkin'--boys don't have no show!
      Wuzn't fer people a-follerin' 'em roun',
    Jest ain't no tellin' how fast they would grow;
      Bet you they'd fool everybody in town!
    But mother--she says they need lickin', an' so
    They're too busy hollerin' to git up an' grow!

"RINGWORM FRANK"

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

    Jest Frank Reed's his real name--though
      Boys all calls him "Ringworm Frank,"
    'Cause he allus runs round so.--
      No man can't tell where to bank
            Frank'll be,
            Next you see
      Er hear of him!--Drat his melts!--
      That man's allus somers else!

    We're old pards.--But Frank he jest
        Can't stay still!--Wuz prosper'n here,
      But lit out on furder West
      Somers on a ranch, last year:
            Never heard
            Nary a word
      How he liked it, tel to-day,
      Got this card, reads thisaway:--

    "Dad-burn climate out here makes
      Me homesick all Winter long,
    And when Springtime comes, it takes
      Two pee-wees to sing one song,--
            One sings 'pee'
            And the other one 'wee!'
      Stay right where you air, old pard.--
      Wisht I wuz this postal-card!"

THE COLONEL'S CLOTHES

BY CAROLINE HOWARD GILMAN

Every man has some peculiar taste or preference, and, I think, though papa dressed with great
elegance, his was a decided love of his old clothes; his garments, like his friends, became
dearer to him from their wear and tear in his service, and they were deposited successively
in his dressing-room, though mamma thought them quite unfit for him. He averred that he required
his old hunting-suits for accidents; his summer jackets and vests, though faded, were the coolest
in the world; his worm-eaten but warm roquelaure was admirable for riding about the fields,
etc. In vain mamma represented the economy of cutting up some for the boys, and giving others
to the servants; he would not consent, nor part with articles in which he said he felt at home.
Often did mamma remonstrate against the dressing-room's looking like a haberdasher's shop;
often did she take down a coat, hold it up to the light, and show him perforations that would
have honored New Orleans or Waterloo; often, while Chloe was flogging the pantaloons, which
ungallantly kicked in return, did she declare that it was a sin and a shame for her master
to have such things in the house; still the anti-cherubic shapes accumulated on the nails and
hooks, and were even considered as of sufficient importance to be preserved from the fire at
the burning of Roseland.

Our little circle about this time was animated by a visit from a peddler. As soon as he was
perceived crossing the lawn with a large basket on his arm, and a bundle slung across a stick
on his shoulder, a stir commenced in the house. Mamma assumed an air of importance and responsibility;
I felt a pleasurable excitement; Chloe's and Flora's eyes twinkled with expectation; while,
from different quarters, the house servants entered, standing with eyes and mouth silently
open, as the peddler, after depositing his basket and deliberately untying his bundle, offered
his goods to our inspection. He was a stout man, with a dark complexion, pitted with the small-pox,
and spoke in a foreign accent. I confess that I yielded myself to the pleasure of purchasing
some gewgaws, which I afterward gave to Flora, while mamma looked at the glass and plated ware.

"Ver sheap," said the peddler, following her eye, and taking up a pair of glass pitchers; "only
two dollar--sheap as dirt. If te lady hash any old closhes, it is petter as money."

Mamma took the pitchers in her hand with an inquisitorial air, balanced them, knocked them
with her small knuckles--they rang as clear as a bell--examined the glass--there was not a
flaw in it. Chloe went through the same process; they looked significantly at each other, nodded,
set the pitchers on the slab, and gave a little approbatory cough.

"They are certainly very cheap," said mamma, tentatively.

"They is, for true, my mistress," said Chloe, with solemnity, "and more handsomer than Mrs.
Whitney's that she gin six dollars for at Charleston."

"Chloe," said mamma, "were not those pantaloons you were shaking to-day quite shrunk and worn out?"

"Yes, ma'am," said she; "and they don't fit nohow. The last time the colonel wore them he seemed
quite on-restless."

"Just step up," said her mistress, "and bring them down; but stay--what did you say was the
price of these candlesticks, sir?"

"Tish only von dollars; but tish more cheaper for te old closhes. If te lady will get te old
closhes, I will put in te pellows and te prush, and it ish more sheaper, too."

Chloe and mamma looked at each other, and raised their eyebrows.

"I will just step up and see those pantaloons," said mamma, in a consulting tone. "It will
be a mercy to the colonel to clear out some of that rubbish. I am confident he can never wear
the pantaloons again; they are rubbed in the knees, and require seating, and he never will
wear seated pantaloons. These things are unusually cheap, and the colonel told me lately we
were in want of a few little matters of this sort." Thus saying, with a significant whisper
to me to watch the peddler, she disappeared with Chloe.

They soon returned, Chloe bearing a variety of garments, for mamma had taken the important
premier pas. The pantaloons were first produced. The peddler took them in his hand, which flew
up like an empty scale, to show how light they were; he held them up to the sun, and a half
contemptuous smile crossed his lips; then shaking his head, he threw them down beside his basket.
A drab overcoat was next inspected, and was also thrown aside with a doubtful expression.

"Mr. Peddler," said mamma, in a very soft tone, "you must allow me a fair price; these are
very excellent articles."

"Oh, ver fair," said he, "but te closhes ish not ver goot; te closhesman is not going to give
me noting for dish," and he laid a waistcoat on the other two articles.

Mamma and Chloe had by this time reached the depths of the basket, and, with sympathetic exclamations,
arranged several articles on the slab.

"You will let me have these pitchers," said mamma, with a look of concentrated resolution,
"for that very nice pair of pantaloons."

The peddler gave a short whistle expressive of contempt, shook his head, and said, "Tish not
possibles. I will give two pishers and von prush for te pantaloon and waistcoat."

Mamma and Chloe glanced at each other and at me; I was absorbed in my own bargains, and said,
carelessly, that the pitchers were perfect beauties. Chloe pushed one pitcher a little forward,
mamma pushed the other on a parallel line, then poised a decanter, and again applied her delicate
knuckles for the test. That, too, rang out the musical, unbroken sound, so dear to the housewife's
ear, and, with a pair of plated candlesticks, was deposited on the table. The peddler took
up the drab overcoat.

"Te closhesman's give noting for dish."

