The old philosopher, whose name was Martin, embarked then with Candide for Bordeaux. They had
both seen and suffered a great deal; and if the vessel had sailed from Surinam to Japan, by
the Cape of Good Hope, the subject of moral and natural evil would have enabled them to entertain
one another during the whole voyage.

Candide, however, had one great advantage over Martin, in that he always hoped to see Miss
Cunegonde; whereas Martin had nothing at all to hope. Besides, Candide was possessed of money
and jewels, and though he had lost one hundred large red sheep, laden with the greatest treasure
upon earth; though the knavery of the Dutch skipper still sat heavy upon his mind; yet when
he reflected upon what he had still left, and when he mentioned the name of Cunegonde, especially
towards the latter end of a repast, he inclined to Pangloss's doctrine.

"But you, Mr. Martin," said he to the philosopher, "what do you think of all this? what are
your ideas on moral and natural evil?"

"Sir," answered Martin, "our priests accused me of being a Socinian, but the real fact is I
am a Manichean."[21]

"You jest," said Candide; "there are no longer Manicheans in the world."

"I am one," said Martin. "I cannot help it; I know not how to think otherwise."

"Surely you must be possessed by the devil," said Candide.

"He is so deeply concerned in the affairs of this world," answered Martin, "that he may very
well be in me, as well as in everybody else; but I own to you that when I cast an eye on this
globe, or rather on this little ball, I cannot help thinking that God has abandoned it to some
malignant being. I except, always, El Dorado. I scarcely ever knew a city that did not desire
the destruction of a neighbouring city, nor a family that did not wish to exterminate some
other family. Everywhere the weak execrate the powerful, before whom they cringe; and the powerful
beat them like sheep whose wool and flesh they sell. A million regimented assassins, from one
extremity of Europe to the other, get their bread by disciplined depredation and murder, for
want of more honest employment. Even in those cities which seem to enjoy peace, and where the
arts flourish, the inhabitants are devoured by more envy, care, and uneasiness than are experienced
by a besieged town. Secret griefs are more cruel than public calamities. In a word I have seen
so much, and experienced so much that I am a Manichean."

"There are, however, some things good," said Candide.

"That may be," said Martin; "but I know them not."

In the middle of this dispute they heard the report of cannon; it redoubled every instant.
Each took out his glass. They saw two ships in close fight about three miles off. The wind
brought both so near to the French vessel that our travellers had the pleasure of seeing the
fight at their ease. At length one let off a broadside, so low and so truly aimed, that the
other sank to the bottom. Candide and Martin could plainly perceive a hundred men on the deck
of the sinking vessel; they raised their hands to heaven and uttered terrible outcries, and
the next moment were swallowed up by the sea.

"Well," said Martin, "this is how men treat one another."

"It is true," said Candide; "there is something diabolical in this affair."

While speaking, he saw he knew not what, of a shining red, swimming close to the vessel. They
put out the long-boat to see what it could be: it was one of his sheep! Candide was more rejoiced
at the recovery of this one sheep than he had been grieved at the loss of the hundred laden
with the large diamonds of El Dorado.

The French captain soon saw that the captain of the victorious vessel was a Spaniard, and that
the other was a Dutch pirate, and the very same one who had robbed Candide. The immense plunder
which this villain had amassed, was buried with him in the sea, and out of the whole only one
sheep was saved.

"You see," said Candide to Martin, "that crime is sometimes punished. This rogue of a Dutch
skipper has met with the fate he deserved."

"Yes," said Martin; "but why should the passengers be doomed also to destruction? God has punished
the knave, and the devil has drowned the rest."

The French and Spanish ships continued their course, and Candide continued his conversation
with Martin. They disputed fifteen successive days, and on the last of those fifteen days,
they were as far advanced as on the first. But, however, they chatted, they communicated ideas,
they consoled each other. Candide caressed his sheep.

"Since I have found thee again," said he, "I may likewise chance to find my Cunegonde."

XXI

CANDIDE AND MARTIN, REASONING, DRAW NEAR THE COAST OF FRANCE.

At length they descried the coast of France.

"Were you ever in France, Mr. Martin?" said Candide.

"Yes," said Martin, "I have been in several provinces. In some one-half of the people are fools,
in others they are too cunning; in some they are weak and simple, in others they affect to
be witty; in all, the principal occupation is love, the next is slander, and the third is talking
nonsense."

"But, Mr. Martin, have you seen Paris?"

"Yes, I have. All these kinds are found there. It is a chaos--a confused multitude, where everybody
seeks pleasure and scarcely any one finds it, at least as it appeared to me. I made a short
stay there. On my arrival I was robbed of all I had by pickpockets at the fair of St. Germain.
I myself was taken for a robber and was imprisoned for eight days, after which I served as
corrector of the press to gain the money necessary for my return to Holland on foot. I knew
the whole scribbling rabble, the party rabble, the fanatic rabble. It is said that there are
very polite people in that city, and I wish to believe it."

"For my part, I have no curiosity to see France," said Candide. "You may easily imagine that
after spending a month at El Dorado I can desire to behold nothing upon earth but Miss Cunegonde.
I go to await her at Venice. We shall pass through France on our way to Italy. Will you bear
me company?"

"With all my heart," said Martin. "It is said that Venice is fit only for its own nobility,
but that strangers meet with a very good reception if they have a good deal of money. I have
none of it; you have, therefore I will follow you all over the world."

"But do you believe," said Candide, "that the earth was originally a sea, as we find it asserted
in that large book belonging to the captain?"

"I do not believe a word of it," said Martin, "any more than I do of the many ravings which
have been published lately."

"But for what end, then, has this world been formed?" said Candide.

"To plague us to death," answered Martin.

"Are you not greatly surprised," continued Candide, "at the love which these two girls of the
Oreillons had for those monkeys, of which I have already told you?"

"Not at all," said Martin. "I do not see that that passion was strange. I have seen so many
extraordinary things that I have ceased to be surprised."

"Do you believe," said Candide, "that men have always massacred each other as they do to-day,
that they have always been liars, cheats, traitors, ingrates, brigands, idiots, thieves, scoundrels,
gluttons, drunkards, misers, envious, ambitious, bloody-minded, calumniators, debauchees, fanatics,
hypocrites, and fools?"

"Do you believe," said Martin, "that hawks have always eaten pigeons when they have found them?"

"Yes, without doubt," said Candide.

"Well, then," said Martin, "if hawks have always had the same character why should you imagine
that men may have changed theirs?"

"Oh!" said Candide, "there is a vast deal of difference, for free will----"

And reasoning thus they arrived at Bordeaux.

XXII

WHAT HAPPENED IN FRANCE TO CANDIDE AND MARTIN.

Candide stayed in Bordeaux no longer than was necessary for the selling of a few of the pebbles
of El Dorado, and for hiring a good chaise to hold two passengers; for he could not travel
without his Philosopher Martin. He was only vexed at parting with his sheep, which he left
to the Bordeaux Academy of Sciences, who set as a subject for that year's prize, "to find why
this sheep's wool was red;" and the prize was awarded to a learned man of the North, who demonstrated
by A plus B minus C divided by Z, that the sheep must be red, and die of the rot.

Meanwhile, all the travellers whom Candide met in the inns along his route, said to him, "We
go to Paris." This general eagerness at length gave him, too, a desire to see this capital;
and it was not so very great a détour from the road to Venice.

He entered Paris by the suburb of St. Marceau, and fancied that he was in the dirtiest village
of Westphalia.

Scarcely was Candide arrived at his inn, than he found himself attacked by a slight illness,
caused by fatigue. As he had a very large diamond on his finger, and the people of the inn
had taken notice of a prodigiously heavy box among his baggage, there were two physicians to
attend him, though he had never sent for them, and two devotees who warmed his broths.

"I remember," Martin said, "also to have been sick at Paris in my first voyage; I was very
poor, thus I had neither friends, devotees, nor doctors, and I recovered."

However, what with physic and bleeding, Candide's illness became serious. A parson of the neighborhood
came with great meekness to ask for a bill for the other world payable to the bearer. Candide
would do nothing for him; but the devotees assured him it was the new fashion. He answered
that he was not a man of fashion. Martin wished to throw the priest out of the window. The
priest swore that they would not bury Candide. Martin swore that he would bury the priest if
he continued to be troublesome. The quarrel grew heated. Martin took him by the shoulders and
roughly turned him out of doors; which occasioned great scandal and a law-suit.

Candide got well again, and during his convalescence he had very good company to sup with him.
They played high. Candide wondered why it was that the ace never came to him; but Martin was
not at all astonished.

Among those who did him the honours of the town was a little Abbé of Perigord, one of those
busybodies who are ever alert, officious, forward, fawning, and complaisant; who watch for
strangers in their passage through the capital, tell them the scandalous history of the town,
and offer them pleasure at all prices. He first took Candide and Martin to La Comédie, where
they played a new tragedy. Candide happened to be seated near some of the fashionable wits.
This did not prevent his shedding tears at the well-acted scenes. One of these critics at his
side said to him between the acts:

"Your tears are misplaced; that is a shocking actress; the actor who plays with her is yet
worse; and the play is still worse than the actors. The author does not know a word of Arabic,
yet the scene is in Arabia; moreover he is a man that does not believe in innate ideas; and
I will bring you, to-morrow, twenty pamphlets written against him."[22]

"How many dramas have you in France, sir?" said Candide to the Abbé.

"Five or six thousand."

"What a number!" said Candide. "How many good?"

"Fifteen or sixteen," replied the other.

"What a number!" said Martin.

Candide was very pleased with an actress who played Queen Elizabeth in a somewhat insipid tragedy[23]
sometimes acted.

"That actress," said he to Martin, "pleases me much; she has a likeness to Miss Cunegonde;
I should be very glad to wait upon her."

