An important member of the zoophyte family, and one often introduced into aquaria, is the actinia,
or sea-anemone, sometimes called sea-rose. Sea-anemones were for a long time considered as
vegetables, beautiful and gayly colored flowers of the ocean, and only comparatively recent
investigation has discovered them to be animals, and blood-thirsty, voracious little robbers
and murderers of the worst character.

One of the most common among the many varieties of sea-anemones is the Actinia mesembryanthemum.
The polypus-hunter who finds this living flower clinging to sea-coast rocks, and bears it home
as an addition to his aquarium, unless he is already acquainted with the nature of his prize,
will behold with astonishment and delight the wondrous variations in the appearance of this
little creature. Clinging to the rocks, the anemone probably appeared like a round leathery
bag drawn in at the centre; but when placed on the miniature cliffs of the aquarium, a wondrous
transformation takes place. The bag gradually expands, a mouth appears in the centre, and from
it unfold a multitude of petals of a variety of colors--pale scarlet, blood-red, orange, and
white--which wave gently back and forth like a graceful nodding flower. Now drop a small earth-worm
or tiny fish in the water. The instant it touches the least of these petal-like tentacles the
whole flower is in commotion, all the arms reaching toward the struggling victim, and holding
it in a grasp so firm that escape is impossible, and it is soon drawn into the capacious and
hungry stomach. Every animated thing that comes within reach of the tentacles of the anemone
is mercilessly seized and devoured. Even small mollusks and Crustacea are unable to resist
the power of the grasping threads, and crabs are often conquered and swallowed by this voracious
living flower. For this reason sea-anemones are dangerous inhabitants of an aquarium stocked
with creatures having the power of locomotion, and are best placed in a tank with other zoophytes
like themselves. How often they eat when free in their natural element is unknown, but weekly
feeding is said to be sufficient to sustain them in an aquarium. Small bits of meat are acceptable
food, which can be dropped into the water. The instant a descending morsel touches the petals,
or tentacles, of a hungry anemone, it is eagerly seized and drawn into the open, greedy mouth.
The Actinia mesembryanthemum is a very long-lived creature, and certain specimens are reported
to have lived over twenty years in aquaria in England.

There are many varieties of sea-anemones, and although all possess the same distinguishing
characteristics, they vary in the form and color of the open flower. The Actinia gemmacia,
which is like a gorgeous sunflower, is said to be the most voracious of its kind. An English
naturalist describes a specimen which swallowed a shell as large as a saucer, its own diameter
not being over two inches. Its elastic stomach extended sufficiently to receive this enormous
prey; but as the shell completely separated the upper half of the animal from the lower, a
new mouth began immediately to form, through which to convey nourishment to the lower portion,
thus presenting the curious spectacle of a double-headed monster in miniature. So remarkable
are the anemones in their reproductive power, that if the tentacles are injured or broken off,
new ones immediately form, and if the animal be cut in two, new mouths form, and soon two perfect
animals are waving their graceful tentacles to and fro in the water.

The locomotive power of the anemone, or actinia, is very sluggish. It will remain days and
weeks in the same spot, and it moves only by sliding one edge of its base very slowly along
the object to which it is fastened, and drawing the other after it. It can therefore never
pursue its food, and appears to have no sense except that of touch, as a worm or shiner may
float in the water all about the anemone without causing it the slightest agitation; but if
the tiniest tip of one of its tentacles be touched, or brushed even, the whole creature is
alive in an instant, and grasping for its prey. In the centre of the illustration are two specimens
of this animal-plant, the wondrous flesh-eating flower of the ocean. To the left may be seen
a specimen of the Eledone moschata--a small and very common member of the octopus family. The
eledone is a hideous-looking beast. Its small eyes, which it can open and shut at will, are
glistening, and of changing iris. Its long arms are strong enough to grasp a mussel shell,
and hold it firmly until its contents are devoured. At the least touch a dark color instantly
appears spread over the whole body of this curious creature, and dark prickly spines arise,
which impart a stinging sensation when handled, like the anemone and sea-nettle.

The two odd-looking things in the background of the engraving are specimens of the limulus,
or arrow-tailed crab. The upper side of the limulus is covered with two smooth overlapping
shields, in which are two tiny eyes. Armed with six pairs of nippers, the limulus often fights
its companions in the aquarium, and boldly engages in battle with the eledone, which, with
its long arms, is more than a match for the pugilistic crab, whose retreat and utter discomfiture
generally end the battle, for, thrown on its back, it can with difficulty right itself. If
a limulus and eledone be confined in the same tank, almost daily must the former be rescued
from the arms of the latter.

The palm-like creature to the right of the picture is a Spirographis, or tube-worm. This savage
little beast lives in a tube formed of particles of lime or grains of sand, and stretches its
gill-like threads upward, in search of food, in the form of a spiral wreath. It is very sensitive,
and at the least touch on the surface of the water, or on the walls of the tank, the threads
are instantly withdrawn into the tube.

In the background may be seen the waving, bell-like Medusa aurita, armed with prickly threads.
It belongs to the jelly-fish family, and loves to lie near the surface of the water, but it
is with great difficulty kept alive in an aquarium. When it dies, it dissolves itself into
the watery element of which it is so largely composed, and its fairy-like skin can scarcely
be discovered in the tank.

EASY BOTANY.

APRIL.

Now it is April, and the time has come to explore the woods and wilds.

Let us hasten to welcome the first blossom, so delicate and yet daring to face the uncertain
sky of early spring.

Happy are they who live in the country, who have the freedom of rural roads, rocky banks, wooded
hills, and smiling meadows! The young botanical student can not expect to become acquainted
with all the wild plants in his vicinity in one summer, nor is this desirable; the pursuit
will last for a lifetime, becoming more and more enchanting. But every one can make a pretty
collection; and if, in addition to studying out the flowers, and keeping an accurate list of
them, and pressing some of the most interesting, the young student will learn to draw with
pen or pencil a few of the most simple and graceful, the pleasure will be greatly increased.
A great deal of information might be given on botanical subjects, but in this brief article
little more can be done than to mention the names of those plants which may be looked for during
the month, and the localities they choose. Most of the flowers mentioned are found from Maine
to Florida, and West and South as well, though some that are abundant in the Middle estates
and on Western prairies avoid the chills of New England. The wild flowers delight in the semi-seclusion
of pastures and meadows, and spring up along the lines of old fences in fields and on the hills
and in the dim woods.

Among the earliest come the anemones, and one of the prettiest of these is the wood-anemone,
or wind-flower. It grows from six to eight inches high, beside old stumps in the moist woodlands;
the stem is smooth, and on the top nods a single flower, drooping, graceful, softly white,
and shaded on the outside with pinkish-purple. Another of the same family, the rue-anemone,
has a central blossom, pretty large, which is surrounded by a row of little buds and blossoms,
which has given it the name of hen-and-chickens.

Another delightful April flower is the hepatica, growing sometimes in New England woods, but
abundantly in the Middle States. This charming little plant is fond of the loveliest shades
of deepest blue, fading into the palest purple and white, and on the Orange mountains, in New
Jersey, are clumps of the most beautiful rose-color. The hepatica grows finely if transplanted.

Do not fail to find the snow-white bud of the bloodroot, which comes up wrapped in a charming
little green cloak, and also the smallest of all the floral tribe, the Draba verna, with atoms
of white flowers, and stems only an inch or two high. Some plants that may be easily found are:

  Wood-anemone, margins of fields; New England.
  Rue-anemone, same localities; New England.
  Hepatica, woody hill-sides; Middle States.
  Bloodroot, rich open woods; New England.
  Blue violet, fields, meadows, hills; everywhere.
  Draba verna, sandy fields and road-sides.
  Spring beauty, moist open woods; New Jersey, South.
  Wild geranium, open woods and fields; New England.
  Erigenia, damp soil; New York, Pennsylvania.
  Quaker ladies, road-sides, fields; everywhere.
  Dandelion, road-sides, fields; everywhere.
  Azalea, New England woods and elsewhere.
  Benzoin--spice-bush--damp woods; New Jersey, Pennsylvania.
  American mistletoe, New Jersey and South.

TWO ANCIENT FAMILIES.

A PAPER READ BEFORE THE "LITTLE LITERATI" BY MOTHER.

I fear I appear before you but illy prepared for the evening duties, as, mother-like, my week
has been full of cares--unusually so. Being left to choose my own subject, I thought to speak
briefly of a worthy but almost extinct family, or, indeed, I should say two families.

Many grown persons persist in declaring that the families have passed entirely out of existence,
but I find there are a few of them to be found still on the rugged mountain-sides, on the plains,
and down in the deep green valleys. Little children know them best, as they seem to be modest,
retiring families, seldom or never intruding themselves on the notice of others. I conjecture,
from the freedom with which little children use their names, that they must be a kindly, simple
people. My little Mary, or Minnie, tells me almost every day of little Johnnie He or little
Sallie She, and in my mind's eye I see little Johnnie He coming through his father's gate on
his way to school--a plump, rosy-cheeked little fellow in white pants and blouse.

  Most amiable and fair he looks,
    That little Johnnie He,
  While following close behind his heels
    Is little Sallie She.
  With flaxen curls and laughing eyes,
    This little girl we greet,
  Exclaim, "How fair is Johnnie He!
    And Sallie She, how sweet!"

Very little is known of the ancestors of these simple people who dwell among the hills. It
is believed they were a worthy, renowned family in their day and generation; but, alas! history
has given us all too little of them. It is known that they were born hundreds of years ago,
living bright and useful lives in the earliest ages of civilization. History speaks freely
of one who may have been the great-great-grandfather of the present Hes (much less is known
of the Shes), and while speaking of him forgets not to take his travelling artist along to
sketch him. This noble ancestor is Mr. Zaccheus He, and he is in the act of performing the
feat that saves his name from utter oblivion. The deed is made doubly impressive by the travelling
artist sketching the same. The poet too lends his sublime aid to render the act one never to
be forgotten. In the present age of the world, many parents, from some deep-seated prejudice,
strive to blot out this unpretending family entirely; but little children with tearful eyes
bring the Historian, the Artist, and the Poet at once to the rescue, exclaiming, "Then why
does the book say,

  "Zaccheus He
  Did climb the tree?'"

CHIN-FAN, THE CANTON BOAT-BOY.

BY THOMAS W. KNOX.

How many readers of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE are aware that in China, on the other side of the
world, there are thousands and thousands of boys and girls that live in boats? There is a great
city in China called Canton, and at this city there is a river which is so crowded with boats
that it is not easy to get around among them. They are not large boats like the great steamers
on American rivers, and they do not have comfortable rooms where you can sleep as well as in
a bed on shore. Some of them are so small that they can only hold three or four persons, and
there is no space for walking around; but these three or four must live there from day to day
and from week to week, and if they ever go on shore at all, it is only for a few minutes at
a time. A whole family will often be found living on a boat which we would hardly think large
enough to cross in from one side of the Hudson River to the other. They cook and eat and sleep
on the boat, and they manage to earn a little money by carrying passengers over the river,
or doing other work. The kitchen where they do their cooking is only a little heap of coals
that a man might put in his hat, and it rests on a box of sand about a foot square. When there
are any passengers on board, they sit under an awning in the front part of the boat, and the
children are kept in a sort of well, like a dry-goods box, near the stern, but at other times
they can run or creep about the deck. The smaller children are secured by means of cords tied
around their waists, so as to save them in case they fall overboard. Sometimes the cord that
holds a baby is fastened to the side of the boat, and sometimes it is tied to a stick of wood
that serves as a float to keep him from sinking. The latter mode is generally preferred, as
the baby has more freedom, and can drag himself along the deck where he likes. It is very common
to see infants crawling around in this way, and it is surprising how soon they learn to keep
out of danger. A Chinese child has only to fall overboard once or twice to make up his mind
to keep away from the side of the boat as much as possible.

One day a baby was creeping around the deck of one of these Canton boats, and wondering how
he should amuse himself. He looked over the side, and as the sun was shining, and reflecting
his face in the water, he thought he discovered a new baby that would be a nice playmate for
him. His mother was in the forward part of the boat, and busy at the oars, and his father was
working on a ship that lay in the harbor. So this baby, whose name was Chin-Fan, was quite
alone, and could do as he pleased. He felt lonesome, and when he saw the strange child in the
water, he smiled at him, and wanted to make his acquaintance. The strange baby smiled in reply;
and then Chin-Fan held out his chubby little hand to lift him out of the water. Of course the
other one held up a hand to meet him, but he could not reach far enough. Then Chin-Fan reached
down, while the stranger reached up, and pretty soon Chin-Fan lost his balance, and tumbled
into the water.

Wasn't he in a dangerous place? His mother did not know what had happened, and she kept on
rowing the boat right away from where the poor little fellow was struggling and trying to keep
from being drowned. An American baby would have screamed and sunk, but Chin-Fan was not American,
and so he did nothing of the sort. He dropped all thoughts of the strange baby, and considered
nobody but himself; he managed to get hold of the billet of wood to which his cord was fastened,
and by holding on firmly he kept his head out of water. The current of the river carried him
along, and very luckily it carried him to where a ship was anchored, with her great cable sloping
down the stream. He struck against this cable, and as he did so, he let go of the billet, so
that it went one side of the cable, while Chin-Fan went the other. Then he took hold of the
cable with both his chubby hands, and next he screamed as loud as his little lungs would let him.

A sailor on the bow of the ship heard the scream, and was not long in finding that it came
from the cable. Chin-Fan kept it up until he was rescued, and just about the time he was taken
on board the ship he was missed by his mother. She came paddling down the river in search of
him, and shouted to everybody she met that her baby was missing. The sailor held little Chin-Fan
up so that she could see him, and in a very short time he was back in his place on the deck
of the boat.

For a good while after that incident Chin-Fan kept at a respectful distance from the side of
the boat, and he did not show any desire to make the acquaintance of strange babies in the
water. His mother taught him how to swim, and he became a boatman at Canton, and afterward
he was a sailor on one of the great steamers that run between San Francisco and China. He did
a great many brave things in and on the water, and his mother was very proud of him; she said
she always knew he would be a famous sailor, when he showed so much good sense and coolness
at the time of his first plunge.

THE STORY OF GEORGE WASHINGTON.

BY EDWARD CARY.

CHAPTER I.

One hundred and fifty years ago a sturdy, hard-working farmer lived near the southern bank
of the Potomac River, in what was then the English colony of Virginia. On the 22d day of February,
1732, a son was born in the modest farm-house, who afterward came to be the most famous, and
one of the noblest, of Americans. His name was George Washington. He grew up a healthy, hardy
boy, quiet in his ways, fond of study, and still more fond of out-door sport. His playmates
loved him because he was fair and generous, and looked up to him as a leader, because he had
a way of doing what he set out to do.

George's father died when he was only eleven years old, but his mother proved a good care-taker
for him. She was a bright-minded woman, gentle but firm, and George always loved her dearly.

At the age of seventeen he began to earn his own living as a surveyor. It was no light work
in those days, for the country where he had most to do was in the backwoods. Many a day he
trudged through the forest from dawn to sunset, and lay down at night with nothing but a blanket
between him and the stormy sky. But he was faithful and careful, and got plenty of work.

From early boyhood Washington had a strong liking for a soldier's life. He used to train his
school-mates as soldiers, was an eager student of drill and tactics, expert in the use of the
sword, and a skillful horseman. At that time the Indians swarmed through the forest in the
back country, and were often urged on by the French (who claimed the Ohio and Mississippi valleys
as their own) to attack the whites. So the colony of Virginia had to keep a good many men under
arms to protect the homes and the lives of the people. When Washington was about twenty-two
years old he became a Major in this little army, and devoted a great deal of time and hard
work to training his men.

In 1755 the French and Indians became so troublesome that quite a large army was sent over
from England to clear the borders of them. General Braddock was at their head, and he asked
Washington to go with him, with the rank of Colonel, as one of his aides; that is, to be always
with him, and help him with advice, or in carrying orders, and in any way he could. The gallant
young officer was glad to go. The English General did not know much about fighting in the woods,
and his slow and stately march toward the Ohio did not suit Washington's ideas, for he knew
that nothing could be done against the French unless it was done swiftly.

When the army neared the French fort, at what is now Pittsburgh, Washington, who was on his
back in an ambulance, sick with fever, insisted on going to the front, for he knew there would
soon be fighting, and hard fighting, too. The fighting began before it was looked for. The
British troops crossed the Monongahela River, and marched up a wooded hollow toward the French
fort. As they swept up the hollow in close ranks, with gay red uniforms and gleaming arms,
there suddenly blazed upon them, from unseen guns on every side, a murderous fire, before which
they shrank quickly back. Startled, but not cowed, their officers rallied them again and again;
but they could not see the enemies whose fire was mowing them down, and they slowly and in
great disorder tried to get back across the river.

General Braddock was mortally wounded. More than half the army were killed or wounded. Colonel
Washington behaved "with the greatest courage and resolution." He rode from point to point
carrying orders, and seemed reckless of death.

Fifteen years later an old Indian, who was in the fight on the French side, told him that he
had fired at him many times, and ordered his young warriors to do so. None of the shots hit,
and the Indians, thinking the young officer was under the special care of the Great Spirit,
ceased to fire at him.

After this battle, Colonel Washington was kept in bed for four long months with a fever, which
was made worse by his exposure on the battle-field. He had little more hard fighting to do,
but he learned many a good lesson from the war--especially to rely on himself, and to study
his own way out of any troubles that he met. His fame went, too, to the other colonies, and
the young Colonel of Militia was becoming known as a man on whose courage and faithfulness
and sound good sense it would do for his country to lean in time of trial.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

PUCK AND BLOSSOM.

From the German of Marie Von Olfers.

PART I.

Once upon a time Puck and his little sister Blossom lived together in a great big egg.

"It's too close in here," said Puck: "let's go and see how it looks outside." Bang! went his
head, right through the wall.

Outside it was raining, so he drew back his head in a hurry; but the rain came pattering in
after him. "Oh, my doodness!" moaned Blossom, "is that how it is outside? Now we shall det
wet to the skin."

"Come," said Puck, "let's go find us another house; it'll be better by-and-by."

So they went, and they went, till they came to old Mother Bee, who lived with her children
in the leafy house of the linden-tree.

"Oh, come in," said she; "but you must sit quite still, or else my children will sting you.
As for me, I must go and gather honey."

For a little while they sat quite still. "Sister Blossom," said Puck, "it's too close in here.
I must go see where they keep the honey." He was starting off that very minute, but all the
Bee children flew up in such a rage, and fastened themselves upon Puck and Blossom, that they
got away, they hardly knew how.

"I didn't even det a taste of their old honey, and I'm all stung up," sobbed Blossom.

"Never mind," said Puck, comfortingly, "it'll be better by-and-by."

