The earliest holder of the manor of whom we have any record is the De Blemund mentioned above.
There are intermediate links missing at a later date, but with the possession of the Southampton
family in the very beginning of the seventeenth century the history becomes clear again. In
1668 the manor passed into the hands of the Bedfords by marriage with the heiress of the Southamptons.
This family also held St. Giles's, which, it will be remembered, was originally also part of
the Prebendary of St. Paul's.

The Royal Mews was established at Bloomsbury (Lomesbury) from very early times to 1537, when
it was burnt down and the mews removed to the site of the present National Gallery (see The
Strand, same series).

The parish is largely composed of squares, containing three large and two small ones, from
which nearly all the streets radiate. The British Museum forms an imposing block in the centre.
This is on the site of Montague House, built for the first Baron Montague, and burnt to the
ground in 1686. It was rebuilt again in great magnificence, with painted ceilings, according
to the taste of the time, and Lord Montague, then Duke of Montague, died in it in 1709. The
house and gardens occupied seven acres. The son and heir of the first Duke built for himself
a mansion at Whitehall (see Westminster, same series, p. 83), and Montague House was taken
down in 1845, when the present buildings of the Museum were raised in its stead.

The Museum has rather a curious history. Like many of our national institutions, it was the
result of chance, and not of a detailed scheme. In 1753 Sir Hans Sloane, whose name is associated
so strongly with Chelsea, died, and left a splendid collection comprising "books, drawings,
manuscripts, prints, medals, seals, cameos, precious stones, rare vessels, mathematical instruments,
and pictures," which had cost him something like £50,000. By his will Parliament was to have
the first refusal of this collection for £20,000. Though it was in the reign of the needy George
II., the sum was voted, and by the same Act was bought the Harleian collection of MSS. to add
to it; to this was added the Cottonian Library of MSS., and the nation had a ready-made collection.
The money to pay for the Sloane and Harleian collections was raised by an easy method of which
modern morals do not approve--that is to say, by lottery. Many suggestions were made as to
the housing of this national collection. Buckingham House, now Buckingham Palace, was spoken
of, also the old Palace Yard; of course, the modern Houses of Parliament were not then built.
Eventually Montague House was bought, and the Museum was opened to the public in 1757. However,
it had not ceased growing. George III. presented some antiquities, which necessitated the opening
of a new department; to these were added the Hamilton and Townley antiquities by purchase,
and in 1816 the Elgin Marbles were taken in temporarily. On the death of George III., George
IV. presented his splendid library, known as the King's Library, to the Museum, not from any
motive of generosity, but because he did not in the least appreciate it. It was therefore presented
to the British Museum."

It then became necessary to pull down Montague House and build a Museum worthy of the treasures
to be enshrined. Sir Robert Smirke was the architect, and the present massive edifice is from
his designs. The buildings cost more than £800,000.

As this is no guide-book, no attempt is made to classify the departments of the Museum or to
indicate its riches. These may be found by experiment, or read in the official guides to be
bought on the spot.

On the east is Montague Street, running into Russell Square.

Southampton House, the ancient manor-house, celebrated for the famous
lime-trees surrounding it, stood on the ground now occupied by Bedford
Place. Noorthouck describes it as "elegant though low, having but one
storey." It is commonly supposed to have been the work of Inigo Jones.
When the property came into the Bedford family, it was occasionally
called Russell House, after their family name. Maitland says that, when
he wrote, one of the Parliamentary forts, two batteries, and a
breastwork, remained in the garden. The house was demolished in 1800,
and Russell Square was begun soon after. A double row of the lime-trees
belonging to Bedford House had extended over the site of this Square.
All this ground had previously been known as Southampton Fields, or Long
Fields, and was the resort of low classes of the people, who here fought
their pitched battles, generally on Sundays. It was known during the
period of Monmouth's Rebellion as the Field of the Forty Footsteps,
owing to the tradition that two brothers killed each other here in a
duel, while the lady who was the cause of the conflict looked on.
Subsequently no grass grew on the spots where the brothers had planted
their feet. Southey adds his full
    confidence in the tradition of the indestructibility of the steps,
    even after ploughing up, and of the conclusions to be drawn from
    the circumstance (Notes and Queries, No. 12).

A long-forgotten novel, called "Coming Out; or, The Field of the Forty Footsteps," was founded
on this legend, as was also a melodrama.

Russell Square is very little inferior to Lincoln's Inn Fields in size, and at the time of
its building had a magnificent situation, with an uninterrupted prospect right up to the hills
of Hampstead and Highgate, and the only house then standing was on the east side; it belonged
to the profligate Lord Baltimore, and was later occupied by the Duke of Bolton. The new Russell
Hotel, at the corner of Guilford Street, and Pitman's School of Shorthand, in the south-eastern
corner, are the only two buildings to note. A bronze statue of Francis, Duke of Bedford, executed
by Westmacott, stands on the south side of the Square; this faces a similar statue of Fox in
Bloomsbury Square.

The Square seems to have been peculiarly attractive to men high up in the profession of the
law. Sir Samuel Romilly, the great law reformer, lived here until his sad death in 1818; he
committed suicide in grief at the loss of his wife. In the same year his neighbour Charles
Abbot, afterwards first Baron Tenterden, was made Lord Chief Justice. He was buried at the
Foundling Hospital by his own request. In 1793 Alexander Wedderburn (first Baron Loughborough
and first Earl of Rosslyn), also a resident in the Square, was appointed Lord Chancellor. After
this he probably moved to the official residence in Bedford Square.

Frederick D. Maurice was at No. 5 from 1856 to 1862. Sir Thomas Lawrence lived for twenty years
at No. 65, and while he was executing the portrait of Platoff, the Russian General, the Cossacks,
mounted on small white horses, stood on guard in the Square before his door.

