McCLURE'S MAGAZINE

VOL. XXXI    JULY, 1908    No. 3

Copyright, 1908, by The S. S. McClure Co. All rights reserved

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  ILLUSTRATIONS                                                      241
  GUARDIANS OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH. By Samuel Hopkins Adams.           241
    Our Health Boards and Their Powers                               242
    Our Absurd Vital Statistics                                      244
    The Criminal Negligence of Physicians                            246
    "Business Interests" and Yellow Fever                            246
    Newspapers, Politicians, and the Bubonic Plague                  248
    Fighting Prejudice and the Death Rate in Charleston              250
    Killing Off the City Negro                                       251
    Private Interests in Public Murder                               251
  A LITTLE VICTORY FOR THE GENERAL. By Josephine Daskam Bacon.       253
  AMERICAN IMPRESSIONS. By Ellen Terry.                              263
  THE HERITAGE OF HAM. By Lieutenant Hugh M. Kelly, U. S. A.         277
  THE SINGER'S HEART. By Harris Merton Lyon.                         291
  THE REPUDIATION OF JOHNSON'S POLICY. By Carl Schurz.               297
    The Fourteenth Amendment                                         298
    A Campaign to Destroy a President                                298
    Killing of Negroes at Memphis and New Orleans                    300
    Johnson "Swings Around the Circle"                               301
    New Congress Overwhelmingly Anti-Johnson                         304
    The Movement Toward Negro Suffrage                               304
    Reconstruction Under Military Control                            305
    The Public Fear of Johnson                                       306
    The Fatal Bungling of Reconstruction                             307
  THE THIRTEENTH MOVE. By Alberta Bancroft.                          308
  GIFFORD PINCHOT, FORESTER. By Will C. Barnes.                      319
  CHIEF KITSAP, FINANCIER. By Joseph Blethen.                        328
  THE WAYFARERS. By Mary Stewart Cutting.                            337
  THE CATHEDRAL. By Florence Wilkinson.                              357
  THE NEW GOSPEL IN CRIMINOLOGY. By Judge McKenzie Cleland.
  ADA REHAN AS KATHARINE IN "THE TAMING OF THE SHREW"
  HELENA MODJESKA
  MARY ANDERSON
  JOSEPH JEFFERSON AS RIP VAN WINKLE
  ALL DAY LONG OLD SERGEANT WILSON SAT IN THE CORNER OF THE SQUAD ROOM,
        CLASPING AND UNCLASPING HIS STRAINING HANDS
  CABLE THE PRESIDENT! WHAT A JOKE!
  THE CIRCLE CLOSED IN AS THE SEA SURGES UP UPON THE LAND
  HARRY BARNES, OLD ACTOR
  HE GRINNED AND WINKED AND FRISKED AND CAPERED
  'OH, YOU DIVVIL, YOU! YOU OLD, BLATHERSKITING DIVVIL'
  HE SAT STARING INTO THE BLANKNESS OF THE LITTLE ROOM
  JOHN POTTER STOCKTON, THE DEMOCRATIC SENATOR FROM NEW JERSEY
  SENATOR CARL SCHURZ
  SENATOR PRESTON KING
  SENATOR JAMES LANE
  SENATOR ZACHARIAH CHANDLER
  'I'VE BEEN FOLLOWING YOU EVER SINCE YOU LEFT YOUR OFFICE,' HE SAID
  'IT'S A DESPICABLE LETTER,' SHE TOLD HERSELF
  'HOW DO YOU SUPPOSE I FEEL, BEING IN THIS POSITION--TO YOU?'
  GIFFORD PINCHOT
  A SECTION OF THE BIG HORN NATIONAL FOREST, WYOMING, SHOWING THE FOREST
        SERVICE METHODS OF LUMBERING
  SECTION OF A REDWOOD FOREST IN CALIFORNIA, SHOWING WASTEFUL AND
        DESTRUCTIVE METHODS OF LUMBERING
  THE EFFECT OF EROSION ON A HILLSIDE FROM WHICH THE FOREST COVER HAS
        BEEN REMOVED
  THE SAME HILLSIDE AFTER TWO YEARS OF CAREFUL AND SYSTEMATIC GRAZING
  HERD OF SHEEP GRAZING UPON A NATIONAL FOREST
  KITSAP, THE CLERK, DONNED THE TRIBAL FINERY OF HIS ANCESTORS
  ON ALL SIDES THE HOP-PICKERS WERE MAKING MERRY
  PICKING PROGRESSED TO AN END, AND THE INDIANS HELD THEIR LAST FEAST
        AND DEPARTED
  STOOD THERE LEANING AGAINST 'DADDY'S' SIDE
  IT WAS SWEET TO BE CHAFFED, TO BE HEEDLESSLY YOUNG ONCE MORE
  SHE CREPT OUT UPON THE LANDING OF THE STAIRS, AND SAT THERE DESOLATELY
        ON THE TOP STEP
  SHE TOOK THE PISTOL FROM HIS RELAXED HOLD
  THE TWO WOMEN SITTING ON THE BENCH, WRAPPED AROUND BY THE LONELINESS
        AND THE INTENSE STILLNESS OF THE ONCOMING NIGHT
  'THEY'LL GET FULL OF EARTH AGAIN,' SHE PROTESTED
  LOIS STOLE INTO THE ROOM

John Chinaman is the logician of hygiene. To his family doctor he says: "I pay you to keep
me well. Earn your money." Let him or his fall sick, and the physician's recompense stops until
health returns to that household. Being fair-minded as well as logical, the Oriental obeys
his physical guardian's directions. Now, it may be possible to criticize certain Chinese medical
methods, such as burning parallel holes in a man's back to cure him of appendicitis, or banging
for six hours a day on a brass tom-tom to eliminate the devil of headache; but the underlying
principle of "No health, no pay" is worthy of consideration.

This principle it is which, theoretically, we have adopted in the matter of the public health.
To our city, State, or national doctors we pay a certain stipend (when we pay them at all)
on the tacit understanding that they are to keep us free from illness. With the cure of disease
they have no concern. The minute you fall ill, Mr. Taxpayer, you pass into the hands of your
private physician. No longer are you an item of interest to your health officer, except as
you may communicate your disease to your fellow citizens. If he looks after you at all, it
is not that you may become well, but that others may not become ill through you. Being less
logical in our conduct than the Chinese, we, as a people, pay little or no heed to the instructions
of the public doctors whom we employ. We grind down their appropriations; we flout the wise
and by no means over-rigorous regulations which they succeed in getting established, usually
against the stupid opposition of unprogressive legislatures; we permit--nay, we influence our
private physicians to disobey the laws in our interest, preferring to imperil our neighbors
rather than submit to the inconvenience necessary to prevent the spread of disease; and we
doggedly, despite counsel and warning, continue to poison ourselves perseveringly with bad
air, bad water, and bad food, the three B's that account for 90 per cent. of our unnecessary
deaths. Then, if we are beset by some well-deserved epidemic, we resentfully demand to know
why such things are allowed to occur. For it usually happens that the virtuous public which
fell asleep with a germ in its mouth, wakes up with a stone in its hand to throw at the health
officer. Considering what we, as a people, do and fail to do, we get, on the whole, better
public health service than we deserve, and worse than we can afford.

Our Health Boards and Their Powers

As a nation, we have no comprehensive health organization. The crying need for one I shall
point out in a future article. Our only Federal guardianship is vested in the United States
Public Health and Marine Hospital Service, which, by some mystery of governmental construction,
got itself placed in the Treasury Department, where it certainly does not belong. It is, with
the exception of a few ancient political appointees now relegated to unimportant posts, a highly
trained and efficient body of hygienists and medical men, the best of whom have also qualified
as diplomats in trying crises. Any germ-beleaguered city may call upon this Service for aid.
It is a sort of flying squadron of sanitative defence. When yellow fever broke out in New Orleans,
it was the M. H. S. men who, working quietly and inconspicuously with the local volunteers,
mapped out the campaign which rid the city of the scourge. In the San Francisco panic eight
years ago, when bubonic plague beset the city, it was the Marine Hospital Service which restored
confidence: and a Service man has been there ever since as the city's chief adviser. The Federal
"surgeons," as they are called, may be in St. Louis helping to check smallpox, or in Seattle,
blocking the spread of a plague epidemic, or in Mobile, Alabama, fighting to prevent the establishment
of an unnecessary and injurious quarantine against the city by outsiders, because of a few
cases of yellow jack; and all the while the Service is studying and planning a mighty "Kriegspiel"
against the endemic diseases in their respective strongholds--malaria, typhoid, tuberculosis,
and the other needless destroyers of life which we have always with us. In the Marine Hospital
Service is the germ of a mighty force for national betterment.

Of the State boards, perhaps a fourth may be regarded as actively efficient. The rest are honorary
and ornamental. Undoubtedly a majority would be ready and willing to perform the services for
which they are not (as a rule) paid anything; but they lack any appropriation upon which to
work. South Carolina, for example, has an excellent State board. Its president, Dr. Robert
Wilson, is an able and public-spirited physician of the highest standing; an earnest student
of conditions, and eager for the sanitary betterment of his State. But when he and his board
undertook to get one thousand dollars from the legislature to demonstrate the feasibility of
enforcing the pure food law and of turning away the decayed meat for which the State is a dumping-ground,
they were blandly informed that there was no money available for that purpose. It was in South
Carolina, by the way, that a medical politician who served on the public health committee of
the legislature addressed this question to a body of physicians who had come there to appeal
for certain sanitary reforms: "What do you want of laws to prevent folks being sick? Ain't
that the way you make your livin'?" Which is, I fear, typical of the kind of physicians that
go into politics and get into our legislatures, where, unhappily, they are usually assigned
to the public health committees.

Under the State boards, in the well-organized States, are the county boards and officers, who
report to the State boards and may call upon the latter for advice or help in time of epidemic
or danger.

In certain circumstances the State officials may arbitrarily take charge. This is done in Indiana,
in Maryland, in Pennsylvania, and in Massachusetts. The last State not only grants extraordinary
powers to its health executive, Dr. Charles Harrington, but it appropriated last year for the
work the considerable sum of $136,000. By the issuance alone of vaccine and antitoxin, the
Board saved to the citizens of the State $210,000, or $74,000 more than the total appropriation
for all the varied work of the institution. Some vague idea of the economy in lives which it
achieves may be gained from the established fact that death results in only sixteen out of
every thousand cases of diphtheria, when the antitoxin is given on or before the second day
of the illness; 110, when given on the third day; and 210 when the inoculation is performed
later. The old death rate from diphtheria, before antitoxin was discovered, ranged from 35
to 50 per cent. of those stricken.

Finally, there are the city bureaus, with powers vested, as a rule, in a medical man designated
as "health officer," "agent," or "superintendent." What Massachusetts is to the State boards,
New York City is to the local boards, but with even greater powers. Under the charter it has
full power to make a sanitary code. Matters ranging from flat wheels on the Metropolitan Street
Railway Company's antiquated cars, to soft coal smoke belched forth from factory chimneys,
are subject to control by the New York City Department of Health. The Essex Street resident
who keeps a pig in the cellar, and the Riverside Drive house-holder who pounds his piano at
1 A.M. to the detriment of his neighbor's slumber, are alike amenable to the metropolis' hired
doctors.

The province of the city, State, and Federal health organization is broad. "Control over all
matters affecting the public health" is a comprehensive term. "All the powers not already given
to the school committees," observed a Massachusetts judge, "are now ceded to the Boards of
Health." In theory, then, almost unlimited powers are vested in the authorities. But how carefully
they must be exercised in order not to excite public jealousy and suspicion, every city health
official well knows. More serious than interference and opposition, however, is the lack of
any general equipment. At the very outset the loosely allied army of the public health finds
itself lacking in the primal weapon of the campaign; comprehensive vital statistics.

Our Absurd Vital Statistics

Vital statistics in this country are an infant science. Yet they are the very basis and fundament
of any attempt to better the general health. Knowledge of what is killing us before our time
is the first step toward saving our lives. The Census Bureau does its best to acquire this
essential information. For years Director North has been persistently hammering away at this
point. But progress is slow. Only fifteen States, representing 48 per cent. of our population,
are comprised in the "registration area"; that is, record all deaths, and forbid burial without
a legal permit giving the cause of death and other details. Outside of this little group of
States, the decedent may be tucked away informally underground and no one be the wiser for
it. This is convenient for the enterprising murderers, and saves trouble for the undertakers.
Indeed, so interested are the latter class, that in Iowa they secured the practical repeal
of a law which would have brought that State within the area; and in Virginia this year they
snowed under a similar bill in the legislature, by a flood of telegrams. Ohio, the third largest
State in the Union, keeps no accurate count of the ravages of disease. Probably not more than
60 per cent. of its deaths are reported. Why? Inertia, apparently, on the part of the officials
who should take the matter in charge. Governor Harris in his January message made a strong
plea for registration, but without result. As for births, there is no such thing as general
registration of them. So this matter is neglected, upon which depend such vital factors as
school attendance, factory employment, marriage, military duty, and the very franchise which
is the basis of citizenship. It is curious to note that Uruguay, in its official tables of
comparative statistics, regrets its inability to draw satisfactory conclusions regarding the
United States of America, because that nation has not yet attained to any scientific method
of treating the subject. Patriotism may wince; but let us not haughtily demand any explanation
from our sneering little neighbor. Explanations might be embarrassing. For the taunt is well
founded.

Is it strange that, having no basis in national statistics, our local health figures "speak
a varied language"? We have no standards even of death on which to base comparisons. But a
dead man is a dead man, isn't he, whether in Maine or California? Not necessarily and unqualifiedly.
In some Southern cities he may be a "dead colored man," hence thrown out of the figures on
the "white death rate" which we are asked to regard as the true indication of health conditions.
In New Orleans, until recently, he might be a "death in county hospital," and as such not counted--this
to help produce a low death rate. In Salt Lake City he's a "dead stranger," and unpopular on
account of raising the total figures for the city. They reckon their total rate there as 16.38,
but their home rate or "real" rate as 10.88. That is to say, less than 11 out of every 1,000
residents die in a year. If this be true, the Salt Lake citizens must send their moribund into
hasty exile, or give them rough on rats, so that they may not "die in the house." As for the
"strangers within our gates" who raise the rate over 50 per cent. by their pernicious activity
in perishing, the implication is clear: either Salt Lake City is one of the deadliest places
in the world to a stranger, or else the newcomers simply commit suicide in large batches out
of a malevolent desire to vitiate the mortality figures. The whole thing is an absurdity; as
absurd as the illiterate and fallacious three-page leaflet which constitutes this community's
total attempt at an annual health report.

St. Joseph, Missouri, claimed, one year, a rate of 6.5 deaths out of every 1,000 inhabitants.
Were this figure authentic, the thriving Missouri city, by the law of probability, should be
full of centenarians. It isn't. I essayed to study the local reports, hoping to discover some
explanation of the phenomenon, but was politely and regretfully informed that St. Joseph's
health authorities issued no annual reports. The natural explanation of the impossibly low
rate is that the city is juggling its returns. In the first place, that favorite method of
securing a low per capita death rate--estimating a population greatly in advance of its actual
numbers--is indicated; since the community has fewer lines of sewers and a smaller area of
parks than other cities of the size it claims--two elements which, by the way, would in themselves
tend to militate against a low mortality. Perhaps, too, the city has that ingenious way of
eliminating one disturbing feature, the deaths under one week or ten days, by regarding them
as "still-births." Chicago used to have this habit; also the trick of counting out non-residents,
who were so thoughtless as to die in the city. At present, it is counting honestly, I believe.
Buffalo used to pad for publication purposes. One year it vaunted itself as the healthiest
large city in the country. The boast was made on the original assumption of a population nearly
25,000 in excess of the United States Census figures, to which 20,000 more was added arbitrarily,
the given reason being a "general belief" that the city had grown to that extent.

Perhaps as complete returns as any are obtained in Maryland, where the health official, Dr.
Price, culls the death notices from 60 papers, checks up the returns from the official registrars,
and if any are missing, demands an explanation by mail. It behooves the registrar to present
a good excuse. Otherwise he is haled to court and fined. The Board has thus far never failed
to secure a conviction.

Now, if the most concrete and easily ascertainable fact in public health statistics, the total
of deaths, is often qualified or perverted, it follows that dependent data, such as the assigned
causes of death, as required by law, are still more unreliable; so I shall keep as far away
from statistics as possible except where some specific condition can be shown by approved figures
or by figures so inherently self-disproved that they carry their own refutation.

The Criminal Negligence of Physicians

This unreliability may be set down to the account of the medical profession. Realizing though
they do the danger of concealment from the proper authorities, and in the face of the law which,
as it gives them special privileges, requires of them a certain return, a considerable percentage
of physicians falsify the returns to protect the sensibilities of their patrons. That they
owe protection rather to the lives of the public, they never stop to think. Tuberculosis is
the disease most misreported. In many communities it is regarded as a disgrace to die of consumption.
So it is. But the stigma rests upon the community which permits the ravage of this preventable
disease; not upon the victims of it, except as they contribute to the general lethargy. In
order to save the feelings of the family, a death from consumption is reported as bronchitis
or pneumonia. The man is buried quietly. The premises are not disinfected, as they should be,
and perhaps some unknowing victim moves into that germ-reeking atmosphere, as into a pitfall.
Let me give an instance. A clergyman in a New York city told me of a death from consumption
in his parish. The family had moved away, and the following week a young married couple with
a six-months-old baby moved in.

"What can I do about it?" asked the clergyman. "Mr. Blank's death was said to be from pneumonia;
but that was only the final cause. He had been consumptive for a year."

"Warn the new tenants," I suggested, "and have them ask the Health Board to disinfect."

More than a year later I met the clergyman on a train and recalled the case to him. "Yes,"
he said, "those people thought it was too much trouble to disinfect, particularly since the
reports did not give tuberculosis as the cause of death. Now their child is dying of tuberculosis
of the intestines."

In this case, had the death been properly reported by the dead man's physician, as the law
required, the City Board would have compelled disinfection of the house before the new tenants
were allowed to move in. The physician who obligingly falsified that report is morally guilty
of homicide through criminal negligence.

In Salt Lake City, in 1907, 43 deaths were ascribed to tuberculosis--undoubtedly a broad understatement.
And in the face of the ordinance requiring registration of all cases of consumption, only five
persons were reported as ill of the disease. By all the recognized rules of proportion, 43
deaths in a year meant at least 500 cases, which, unreported, and hence in many instances unattended
by any measures for prevention of the spread of infection, constituted so many separate radiating
centers of peril to the whole community.

Why is such negligence on the part of physicians not punished? Because health officials dread
to offend the medical profession. In this respect, however, a vast improvement is coming about.
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Indiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and other States are
not afraid to prosecute and fine delinquents; nor are a growing number of cities, among them
Boston, New York, Rochester, Providence, and New Orleans. The great majority of such prosecutions,
however, are for failure to notify the authorities of actively contagious diseases, such as
scarlet fever, diphtheria, and smallpox.

"Business Interests" and Yellow Fever

