"That tall one, that's l, an' there's round o, then r, an' then i with a dot. L-o lo, r-i ri,
lori; m, e, an' then another tall l on the end--that's m-e-l mel, lorimel. Now what's the capertin's
name?--lorimel, lorimel; I've heerd that name some'eres. Why, it's her that came that day mother
lay a-dyin' an' spoke so soft like; an' the gennelman with her he called her 'lorimel'--no
that warn't it--Florimel, Florimel, that's the name!

"Tain't yourn now, Nance. You know where it belongs. You ain't got no right to it now."

And then came other thoughts.

"What's a gold thimble to her? She can buy all she wants--gold thimbles, and gold scissors,
and gold needles; and sit in a gold chair, and sew on a gold gown. She hadn't no business leavin'
a gold thimble in a rag bag. Them that's careless has to pay for it."

       *       *       *       *       *

The curtains were drawn in an elegant house on the Avenue. A bright fire burned in the grate,
throwing a warm glow on the delicate walls, the beautiful pictures, and the snowy marble statues,
and reflecting itself in the long mirrors, seemed, as it sparkled and glowed, the only thing
of life in the room; for the young girl who lay back in the luxurious depths of the large chair
by the hearth, with her fair hands lying listlessly in her lap, was as white and motionless
as the statues around her.

Now and then her lip quivered, and an occasional tear stole from under her long lashes, but
she did not look up till a gentleman entered the room. Then she sprang into his arms, and sobbed
out, in reply to his question of how she had spent the day,

"I've been perfectly miserable, papa. I've lost my thimble--the thimble Uncle Phil gave me.
I'd give everything in the world to see it again."

"Why, my dear little girl, that would hardly be worth while, when you can get another for a
few dollars. We'll go to-morrow and buy the prettiest--"

"Ah! papa, you don't understand. All the money in the world can't buy a thimble to take the
place of the one Uncle Phil gave me. It was the last thing he ever bought."

"Was it, darling?"

"Yes; and he said that morning, 'Florimel, can you sew pretty well?' and I laughed, and said,
'Of course not, Uncle Phil; what's the need of my sewing?' 'Great need, great need, little
niece,' he said. 'Sewing is woman's most womanly work, and though you may never need to sew
for yourself, if you knew how, you might teach hundreds of poor girls to sew and clothe themselves
and their families.'"

"My little daughter teaching a sewing-school! How funny it would be!"

"So that afternoon we went into Shreve's and selected one, and had my name engraved on it;
and that night Uncle Phil was taken ill. So of course I feel badly, papa; don't you see why?"

"Yes, Florimel; but perhaps we shall find this thimble. Have you had Janet search for it?"

"Indeed I have, all day long. I had it yesterday at work on my Kensington, and think Janet
must have taken it up among the bits of worsted when she put them into the scrap bag; and Ann
sold all the scraps last night to the ragman. Oh dear! I shall never see it again."

"Hif you please, sir," said Jacobs, appearing in the doorway, "there's a vagrant at the basement
door. Three times hi've sent 'er away, han' three times she 'as returned, hevery time hasking
for Miss Florimel, han' sayin' she must see 'er."

"To see me? At the basement door? How strange!" and Florimel forgot her tears in her eagerness
to see what the poor child at the door could want.

Her papa hurried down stairs after her, and saw her face radiant with joy as she held in her
hand a gold thimble, while a scantily clothed girl stood beside her awkwardly twisting the
corner of her shabby shawl.

"Oh, papa! this girl Nancy found my thimble among some rags, and brought it back to me. Oh,
what can I do for her, papa?"

"How did you know whose the thimble was, my child?"

"I warn't sure, sir," faltered Nance, whose honor had outweighed her longing for money and
the comfort it would bring, and had brought her through the long city to seek the rightful
owner of the thimble--"I warn't sure; but I knew her name, for herself an' a gennelman came
onst to see mother long ago."

"That was Uncle Phil," said Florimel. "He used often to take me when he went to visit the poor.
But how did you know where I lived?"'

"I knew the house, 'cause he told me to come here onst for some soup for mother, an' I came
an' got it."

"How is your mother now?"

"She's dead, miss," sobbed Nance.

"And so is Uncle Phil;" and the two girls--the one so fair and beautiful and carefully guarded,
the other so pale and pinched and friendless--forgot for a moment all but their sorrow, their
longing for the dear dead faces they could never see again.

But Florimel's papa called Janet to see that Nancy was warmed and fed after her long cold walk,
and took Florimel into the library to see what they really could do for this poor but honest girl.

Florimel at first insisted upon having her for her own little maid, but her papa convinced
her that Nancy was too ignorant for such a position; and they finally decided that the best
thing to do for her would be to give her a good home, where she could learn to do all kinds
of nice work, and could also go to school.

"Why, papa, I know the very place for Nancy. Nurse Susan lives all alone, now her niece has
gone out to service, and Nancy could live with her."

"That is a very bright thought, little daughter. It would be a comfort to Susan to have a young
girl with her, and the money we should pay for Nancy's board would lighten her expenses. Let
us send now for Nancy, and see if she likes the idea."

Did Nance like the idea?

Did she like to think she need never go back to the bustling, dusty mill; that she need not
go again to that miserable tenement-house which she called home, where she shared one tiny
room with seven other girls; that she need not know again what it was to battle with hunger
and cold? Did she like to feel that she should have a home in the sweet fresh country; that
her work should be in a garden, in a dairy, in a neat little cottage; that clothing, food,
and the learning to be a good woman would lie within her reach?

LIFE ON BOARD A TRAINING-SHIP.

Training-ships, on board which boys are taught to become first-rate seamen, form an important
portion of every navy; and in the accompanying sketches our artist has endeavored to convey
correct ideas of the daily life of these boys to those of our readers who live far inland,
are not familiar with ships and sailors, and who perhaps have never seen the sea.

The first sketch is one showing the boys undergoing a part of their sail drill, and engaged
in furling the mizzen top-gallant-sail and royal. The sails of a man-of-war are furled and
stowed with the utmost care and precision, so that the ends of the yard look exactly alike,
and sometimes the boys have to do their work over and over again before the critical eye of
the officer watching them is satisfied. In storms, when the great ship rolls so that the yard-arms
sometimes touch the water, lying out on them and furling sails is very difficult and dangerous
work, and it is only on account of the constant drill they have received during fair weather
that the boys are able to accomplish the task under these circumstances.

Above all things, on these training-ships the boys are obliged to keep themselves neat and
clean. They are expected to bathe frequently, and are always compelled to do so on Sunday.
The bath-room, provided with tubs, basins, and a plentiful supply of water, is located in the
bows, in the extreme forward part of the ship.

Generally amidships, but sometimes in the stern of the ship, is the school-room; for sailor
boys have other things to learn besides the practical sailing of a ship. In this school-room
the young sailors spend four or five hours of each day, and are taught reading, writing, arithmetic,
history, geography, and grammar.

At noon, or eight bells, as they say on shipboard, the bugles sound the dinner call, and from
all parts of the ship the boys tumble down the hatchways to the berth-deck, where is a long
row of short tables swung from the ceiling, and where the young sailors eat the bountiful dinner
provided for them as only healthy, hearty boys can eat.

The fourth or lowest deck of the ship is called the "orlop deck," and it is here that the boys
stow away their muskets and cutlasses after drill. On this deck also the boys receive at four
bells, or six o'clock in the evening, the allowance of bread and molasses, or treacle, that
composes their regular supper.

Next to the sail drill, perhaps the most important is the gun drill, or practice with the heavy
guns. This gun drill is not important merely because the guns are to be used in case of a fight,
but because they are also used in the firing of salutes. These salutes must be fired whenever
another man-of-war comes into port or a distinguished officer comes on board, on national holidays,
and at many other times; therefore it is very important that the boys should be familiar with
the great guns. Each gun has its crew, each one of whom has an especial duty to perform. The
long cord that the boy in the last picture holds in his hand is called a lanyard; and as he
pulls it with a smart jerk, a hammer falls on the breech of the gun, and with a roar that shakes
the ship, the great gun is fired.

  SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.

     I am twelve years old, and go to the Lincoln School. It is so
     called because it has a statue of Abraham Lincoln in front of it.
     It was built in 1864, has over twelve hundred pupils enrolled, and
     I think it is the best school in the city. I have been making vases
     out of Farallon eggs to send East to my cousins. The eggs come from
     the Farallon Islands, twenty-one miles outside of the Golden Gate.
     They are of a blue color, and have marks on them that look like
     hieroglyphics. The birds that lay them are a species of gull. I was
     born in San Francisco, and have lived here most of my life. Four
     years I spent up in the mountains on a farm, or ranch, as they call
     it here.

  CHARLES W. S.

Farallon, the name of these islands near the entrance to San Francisco Bay, is a Spanish word
signifying a small pointed islet in the ocean. The islands, of which there are six, are so
called because they consist of rugged towering peaks of granite! A more desolate place could
not well be imagined. There is nearly always a fierce wind blowing, and the waves dash wildly
into the numerous spouting caves along the rocky coast. There is a light-house here three hundred
and sixty feet above the sea, and its keepers are the only human inhabitants of the desolate
sea-bound rock; but thousands of sea-lions congregate upon the cliffs, and vast numbers of
gulls and wild rabbits make their home there. During the egging season men visit the islands,
and gather thousands of eggs for the San Francisco market. A very interesting account of these
islands, is given in Mr. Nordhoff's book on Northern California, Oregon, and the Sandwich Islands.

       *       *       *       *       *

  FORT ASSINIBOINE, MONTANA TERRITORY.

     I am always glad to see YOUNG PEOPLE come with papa's mail. Out
     here in the wilderness we do not often see nice papers; but then we
     see what city people never see--plenty of Indians. Many of them are
     very poor, and so hungry that they pick bread and scraps of meat
     out of the swill barrels to eat--old stuff that the soldiers have
     thrown away. I think people should send the poor Indians something
     to eat. I send you a picture of some Indians as they look hunting
     for food this cold day. I am only nine years old, and can not draw
     very good pictures.

  BERTIE BROWN.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.

     I have a canary, which is the only live pet I ever had. It was
     eight months old the 17th of February. I plant canary-seed, and let
     it grow until it is about two inches high, and then I give it to my
     canary. It likes to eat it very much.

  LOUIE E. WARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I live way off in Washington Territory, and thought I would tell
     you something about this distant country. We live near the Simcoe
     Mountains. They are covered with evergreen pines. We can see the
     snow-capped mountains every day in the year--Mounts Jefferson,
     Hood, St. Helen's, and Adams. It snows here sometimes in winter,
     but the wind comes up from the sea, and takes it away in a few
     days. I do not live near any school, but I study and recite my
     lessons at home. Six miles away, at the new town of Goldendale,
     there is an academy, and they are teaching in it now. I am ten
     years old, and was born in this country. Sometimes troops of
     Indians come riding past on their spotted ponies. They bring salmon
     from the Columbia River, huckleberries from the mountains, and now
     and then ponies to sell. I am very fond of reading, and am
     delighted with YOUNG PEOPLE. I read every word in it.

  GERTRUDE BALCH.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HECKATOO, ARKANSAS.

     I am a little girl eight years old. I take YOUNG PEOPLE, and like
     it very much. I have a doll named Laura Martin. I live on a cotton
     plantation on the Arkansas River, and I can stand on the front
     gallery of our house and see all the boats that pass. We have never
     been to school, and we have no governess now, so mamma has to teach
     us. We have a great many pecan-nut trees here, and there is a pond
     near our house with a boat on it, and my sister and I row
     sometimes.

  CYNTHIA R. SMITH.

       *       *       *       *       *

  UTICA, NEW YORK.

     I am six years old. My birthday was the 18th of January, and mamma
     gave me a little party. We had a nice time, and sat down to tea all
     by ourselves, without any grown people. I have two birdies; they
     will put their little heads clear out of the cage, and take seeds
     from my mouth. Sometimes they nip my tongue, and one birdie will
     fly out right into the cup I keep seed in. I taught them to eat in
     that way by not letting them have anything until they would take
     it.

  BESSIE L. CARTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Papa brought me the numbers of YOUNG PEOPLE a few days ago. I had
     been waiting anxiously for them, and I was so delighted when he
     gave them to me. I have known all about Harpers' publications for a
     long time. Mamma says that papa took HARPER'S MAGAZINE long ago,
     before the war. I like the stories, letter-box, and puzzles in
     YOUNG PEOPLE very much, and I have succeeded in getting answers to
     some of the puzzles. My pets are cats and dogs, and I would like to
     get a parrot. Alabama was my native place, but now I live in
     Maryland.

  LIDIE B. DUKE.

       *       *       *       *       *

  RUSSELVILLE, ARKANSAS.

