Transcriber's Notes:

      The original book cites Holland's Her[Greek: ô]ologia in several
      places, but consistently misspells it Hero[Greek: ô]logia. This
      has been corrected based on the image of the original title page
      of Her[Greek: ô]ologia at the Library of Congress, www.loc.gov.

      The original book occasionally uses a numeral or letter enclosed
      in square brackets. In this e-book, these have been changed to
      curly brackets to avoid confusion with footnote markers.

SHAKESPEAREAN PLAYHOUSES

A History of English Theatres from the Beginnings to the Restoration

by

JOSEPH QUINCY ADAMS Cornell University

Gloucester, Mass. Peter Smith 1960

Copyright, 1917, by Joseph Quincy Adams

Reprinted, 1960, by Permission of Houghton Mifflin Co.

TO

LANE COOPER

IN GRATITUDE AND ESTEEM

PREFACE

The method of dramatic representation in the time of Shakespeare has long received close study.
Among those who have more recently devoted their energies to the subject may be mentioned W.J.
Lawrence, T.S. Graves, G.F. Reynolds, V.E. Albright, A.H. Thorndike, and B. Neuendorff, each
of whom has embodied the results of his investigations in one or more noteworthy volumes. But
the history of the playhouses themselves, a topic equally important, has not hitherto been
attempted. If we omit the brief notices of the theatres in Edmond Malone's The Plays and Poems
of William Shakespeare (1790) and John Payne Collier's The History of English Dramatic Poetry
(1831), the sole book dealing even in part with the topic is T.F. Ordish's The Early London
Theatres in the Fields. This book, however, though good for its time, was written a quarter
of a century ago, before most of the documents relating to early theatrical history were discovered,
and it discusses only six playhouses. The present volume takes advantage of all the materials
made available by the industry of later scholars, and records the history of seventeen regular,
and five temporary or projected, theatres. The book is throughout the result of a first-hand
examination of original sources, and represents an independent interpretation of the historical
evidences. As a consequence of this, as well as of a comparison (now for the first time possible)
of the detailed records of the several playhouses, many conclusions long held by scholars have
been set aside. I have made no systematic attempt to point out the cases in which I depart
from previously accepted opinions, for the scholar will discover them for himself; but I believe
I have never thus departed without being aware of it, and without having carefully weighed
the entire evidence. Sometimes the evidence has been too voluminous or complex for detailed
presentation; in these instances I have had to content myself with reference by footnotes to
the more significant documents bearing on the point.

In a task involving so many details I cannot hope to have escaped errors--errors due not only
to oversight, but also to the limitations of my knowledge or to mistaken interpretation. For
such I can offer no excuse, though I may request from my readers the same degree of tolerance
which I have tried to show other laborers in the field. In reproducing old documents I have
as a rule modernized the spelling and the punctuation, for in a work of this character there
seems to be no advantage in preserving the accidents and perversities of early scribes and
printers. I have also consistently altered the dates when the Old Style conflicted with our
present usage.

I desire especially to record my indebtedness to the researches of Professor C.W. Wallace,
the extent of whose services to the study of the Tudor-Stuart drama has not yet been generally
realized, and has sometimes been grudgingly acknowledged; and to the labors of Mr. E.K. Chambers
and Mr. W.W. Greg, who, in the Collections of The Malone Society, and elsewhere, have rendered
accessible a wealth of important material dealing with the early history of the stage.

Finally, I desire to express my gratitude to Mr. Hamilton Bell and the editor of The Architectural
Record for permission to reproduce the illustration and description of Inigo Jones's plan of
the Cockpit; to the Governors of Dulwich College for permission to reproduce three portraits
from the Dulwich Picture Gallery, one of which, that of Joan Alleyn, has not previously been
reproduced; to Mr. C.W. Redwood, formerly technical artist at Cornell University, for expert
assistance in making the large map of London showing the sites of the playhouses, and for other
help generously rendered; and to my colleagues, Professor Lane Cooper and Professor Clark S.
Northup, for their kindness in reading the proofs.

JOSEPH QUINCY ADAMS

ITHACA, NEW YORK

CONTENTS

    I. THE INN-YARDS                                                 1

   II. THE HOSTILITY OF THE CITY                                    18

  III. THE THEATRE                                                  27

   IV. THE CURTAIN                                                  75

    V. THE FIRST BLACKFRIARS                                        91

   VI. ST. PAUL'S                                                  111

  VII. THE BANKSIDE AND THE BEAR GARDEN                            119

 VIII. NEWINGTON BUTTS                                             134

   IX. THE ROSE                                                    142

    X. THE SWAN                                                    161

   XI. THE SECOND BLACKFRIARS                                      182

  XII. THE GLOBE                                                   234

 XIII. THE FORTUNE                                                 267

  XIV. THE RED BULL                                                294

   XV. WHITEFRIARS                                                 310

  XVI. THE HOPE                                                    324

 XVII. ROSSETER'S BLACKFRIARS, OR PORTER'S HALL                    342

XVIII. THE PHOENIX, OR COCKPIT IN DRURY LANE                       348

  XIX. SALISBURY COURT                                             368

   XX. THE COCKPIT-IN-COURT, OR THEATRE ROYAL AT WHITEHALL         384

  XXI. MISCELLANEOUS: WOLF'S THEATRE IN NIGHTINGALE LANE;
        THE PROJECTED "AMPHITHEATRE"; OGILBY'S DUBLIN THEATRE;
        THE FRENCH PLAYERS' TEMPORARY THEATRE IN DRURY LANE;
        DAVENANT'S PROJECTED THEATRE IN FLEET STREET               410

       BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                433

       MAPS AND VIEWS OF LONDON                                    457

       INDEX                                                       461

ILLUSTRATIONS

MAP OF LONDON SHOWING THE PLAYHOUSES                    Frontispiece

AN INN-YARD                                                          4

MAP OF LONDON SHOWING THE INN-PLAYHOUSES                             9

THE SITE OF THE FIRST PLAYHOUSES                                    27

THE SITE OF THE FIRST PLAYHOUSES                                    31

A PLAN OF BURBAGE'S HOLYWELL PROPERTY                               33

THE SITE OF THE CURTAIN PLAYHOUSE                                   79

BLACKFRIARS MONASTERY                                               93

THE SITE OF THE TWO BLACKFRIARS PLAYHOUSES                          94

A PLAN OF FARRANT'S PLAYHOUSE                                       97

THE BANKSIDE                                                       120

THE BANKSIDE                                                       121

THE BEAR- AND BULL-BAITING RINGS                                   123

THE BEAR GARDEN                                                    127

THE BEAR GARDEN AND THE ROSE                                       147

THE BEAR GARDEN AND THE ROSE                                       149

JOAN WOODWARD ALLEYN                                               152

THE MANOR OF PARIS GARDEN AND THE SWAN PLAYHOUSE                   163

THE SWAN PLAYHOUSE                                                 165

THE INTERIOR OF THE SWAN PLAYHOUSE                                 169

PLAN ILLUSTRATING THE SECOND BLACKFRIARS PLAYHOUSE                 187

REMAINS OF BLACKFRIARS                                             196

RICHARD BURBAGE                                                    234

WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE                                                238

A PLAN OF THE GLOBE PROPERTY                                       242

THE BEAR GARDEN, THE ROSE, AND THE FIRST GLOBE                     245

THE BEAR GARDEN, THE ROSE, AND THE FIRST GLOBE                     246

THE FIRST GLOBE                                                    248

THE FIRST GLOBE                                                    253

MERIAN'S VIEW OF LONDON                                            256

THE SECOND GLOBE                                                   260

THE TRADITIONAL SITE OF THE GLOBE                                  262

THE SITE OF THE FORTUNE PLAYHOUSE                                  270

THE FORTUNE PLAYHOUSE?                                             278

EDWARD ALLEYN                                                      282

THE SITE OF THE RED BULL PLAYHOUSE                                 294

A PLAN OF WHITEFRIARS                                              312

MICHAEL DRAYTON                                                    314

THE SITES OF THE WHITEFRIARS AND THE SALISBURY COURT PLAYHOUSES    318

THE HOPE PLAYHOUSE, OR SECOND BEAR GARDEN                          326

THE HOPE PLAYHOUSE, OR SECOND BEAR GARDEN                          331

THE SITE OF THE COCKPIT IN DRURY LANE                              350

A PLAN OF THE SALISBURY COURT PROPERTY                             371

THE COCKPIT AT WHITEHALL                                           390

INIGO JONES'S PLANS FOR THE COCKPIT-IN-COURT                       396

FISHER'S SURVEY OF WHITEHALL SHOWING THE COCKPIT-IN-COURT          398

THE THEATRO OLYMPICO AT VICENZA                                    399

THE COCKPIT-IN-COURT                                               407

SHAKESPEAREAN PLAYHOUSES

CHAPTER I

THE INN-YARDS

Before the building of regular playhouses the itinerant troupes of actors were accustomed,
except when received into private homes, to give their performances in any place that chance
provided, such as open street-squares, barns, town-halls, moot-courts, schoolhouses, churches,
and--most frequently of all, perhaps--the yards of inns. These yards, especially those of carriers'
inns, were admirably suited to dramatic representations, consisting as they did of a large
open court surrounded by two or more galleries. Many examples of such inn-yards are still to
be seen in various parts of England; a picture of the famous White Hart, in Southwark, is given
opposite page 4 by way of illustration. In the yard a temporary platform--a few boards, it
may be, set on barrel-heads[1]--could be erected for a stage; in the adjacent stables a dressing-room
could be provided for the actors; the rabble--always the larger and more enthusiastic part
of the audience--could be accommodated with standing-room about the stage; while the more aristocratic
members of the audience could be comfortably seated in the galleries overhead. Thus a ready-made
and very serviceable theatre was always at the command of the players; and it seems to have
been frequently made use of from the very beginning of professionalism in acting. (Poetaster,
III, i.)]

One of the earliest extant moralities, Mankind, acted by strollers in the latter half of the
fifteenth century, gives us an interesting glimpse of an inn-yard performance. The opening
speech makes distinct reference to the two classes of the audience described above as occupying
the galleries and the yard:

     O ye sovereigns that sit, and ye brothers that stand right
     up.

The "brothers," indeed, seem to have stood up so closely about the stage that the actors had
great difficulty in passing to and from their dressing-room. Thus, Nowadays leaves the stage
with the request:

     Make space, sirs, let me go out!

New Gyse enters with the threat:

     Out of my way, sirs, for dread of a beating!

While Nought, with even less respect, shouts:

     Avaunt, knaves! Let me go by!

Language such as this would hardly be appropriate if addressed to the "sovereigns" who sat
in the galleries above; but, as addressed to the "brothers," it probably served to create a
general feeling of good nature. And a feeling of good nature was desirable, for the actors
were facing the difficult problem of inducing the audience to pay for its entertainment.

This problem they met by taking advantage of the most thrilling moment of the plot. The Vice
and his wicked though jolly companions, having wholly failed to overcome the hero, Mankind,
decide to call to their assistance no less a person than the great Devil himself; and accordingly
they summon him with a "Walsingham wystyle." Immediately he roars in the dressing-room, and shouts:

     I come, with my legs under me!

There is a flash of powder, and an explosion of fireworks, while the eager spectators crane
their necks to view the entrance of this "abhomynabull" personage. But nothing appears; and
in the expectant silence that follows the actors calmly announce a collection of money, facetiously
making the appearance of the Devil dependent on the liberality of the audience:

     New Gyse. Now ghostly to our purpose, worshipful sovereigns,
     We intend to gather money, if it please your negligence.
     For a man with a head that of great omnipotence--

     Nowadays [interrupting]. Keep your tale, in goodness, I
     pray you, good brother!

     [Addressing the audience, and pointing towards the
     dressing-room, where the Devil roars again.]

     He is a worshipful man, sirs, saving your reverence.
     He loveth no groats, nor pence, or two-pence;
     Give us red royals, if ye will see his abominable presence.

     New Gyse. Not so! Ye that may not pay the one, pay the other.

And with such phrases as "God bless you, master," "Ye will not say nay," "Let us go by," "Do
them all pay," "Well mote ye fare," they pass through the audience gathering their groats,
pence, and twopence; after which they remount the stage, fetch in the Devil, and continue their
play without further interruption.

In the smaller towns the itinerant players might, through a letter of recommendation from their
noble patron, or through the good-will of some local dignitary, secure the use of the town-hall,
of the schoolhouse, or even of the village church. In such buildings, of course, they could
give their performances more advantageously, for they could place money-takers at the doors,
and exact adequate payment from all who entered. In the great city of London, however, the
players were necessarily forced to make use almost entirely of public inn-yards--an arrangement
which, we may well believe, they found far from satisfactory. Not being masters of the inns,
they were merely tolerated; they had to content themselves with hastily provided and inadequate
stage facilities; and, worst of all, for their recompense they had to trust to a hat collection,
at best a poor means of securing money. Often too, no doubt, they could not get the use of
a given inn-yard when they most needed it, as on holidays and festive occasions; and at all
times they had to leave the public in uncertainty as to where or when plays were to be seen.
Their street parade, with the noise of trumpets and drums, might gather a motley crowd for
the yard, but in so large a place as London it was inadequate for advertisement among the better
classes. And as the troupes of the city increased in wealth and dignity, and as the playgoing
public grew in size and importance, the old makeshift arrangement became more and more unsatisfactory.

At last the unsatisfactory situation was relieved by the specific dedication of certain large
inns to dramatic purposes; that is, the proprietors of certain inns found it to their advantage
to subordinate their ordinary business to the urgent demands of the actors and the playgoing
public. Accordingly they erected in their yards permanent stages adequately equipped for dramatic
representations, constructed in their galleries wooden benches to accommodate as many spectators
as possible, and were ready to let the use of their buildings to the actors on an agreement
by which the proprietor shared with the troupe in the "takings" at the door. Thus there came
into existence a number of inn-playhouses, where the actors, as masters of the place, could
make themselves quite at home, and where the public without special notification could be sure
of always finding dramatic entertainment.

Richard Flecknoe, in his Discourse of the English Stage (1664), goes so far as to dignify these
reconstructed inns with the name "theatres." At first, says he, the players acted "without
any certain theatres or set companions, till about the beginning of Queen Elizabeth's reign
they began here to assemble into companies, and set up theatres, first in the city (as in the
inn-yards of the Cross Keys and Bull in Grace and Bishop's Gate Street at this day to be seen),
till that fanatic spirit [i.e., Puritanism], which then began with the stage and after ended
with the throne, banished them thence into the suburbs"--that is, into Shoreditch and the Bankside,
where, outside the jurisdiction of the puritanical city fathers, they erected their first regular
playhouses.

The "banishment" referred to by Flecknoe was the Order of the Common Council issued on December
6, 1574. This famous document described public acting as then taking place "in great inns,
having chambers and secret places adjoining to their open stages and galleries"; and it ordered
that henceforth "no inn-keeper, tavern-keeper, nor other person whatsoever within the liberties
of this city shall openly show, or play, nor cause or suffer to be openly showed or played
within the house yard or any other place within the liberties of this city, any play," etc.

How many inns were let on special occasions for dramatic purposes we cannot say; but there
were five "great inns," more famous than the rest, which were regularly used by the best London
troupes. Thus Howes, in his continuation of Stow's Annals (p. 1004), in attempting to give
a list of the playhouses which had been erected "within London and the suburbs," begins with
the statement, "Five inns, or common osteryes, turned to playhouses." These five were the Bell
and the Cross Keys, hard by each other in Gracechurch Street, the Bull, in Bishopsgate Street,
the Bell Savage, on Ludgate Hill, and the Boar's Head, in Whitechapel Street without Aldgate.[2]

[Footnote 2: All historians of the drama have confused this great carriers' inn with the Boar's
Head in Eastcheap made famous by Falstaff. The error seems to have come from the Analytical
Index of the Remembrancia, which (p. 355) incorrectly catalogues the letter of March 31, 1602,
as referring to the "Boar's Head in Eastcheap." The letter itself, however, when examined,
gives no indication whatever of Eastcheap, and other evidence shows conclusively that the inn
was situated in Whitechapel just outside of Aldgate.]

Although Flecknoe referred to the Order of the Common Council as a "banishment," it did not
actually drive the players from the city. They were able, through the intervention of the Privy
Council, and on the old excuse of rehearsing plays for the Queen's entertainment, to occupy
the inns for a large part of each year.[3] John Stockwood, in a sermon preached at Paul's Cross,
August 24, 1578, bitterly complains of the "eight ordinary places" used regularly for plays,
referring, it seems, to the five inns and the three playhouses--the Theatre, Curtain, and Blackfriars--recently
opened to the public.

[Footnote 3: See especially The Acts of the Privy Council and The Remembrancia of the City
of London.]

Richard Reulidge, in A Monster Lately Found Out and Discovered (1628), writes that "soon after
1580" the authorities of London received permission from Queen Elizabeth and her Privy Council
"to thrust the players out of the city, and to pull down all playhouses and dicing-houses within
their liberties: which accordingly was effected; and the playhouses in Gracious Street [i.e.,
the Bell and the Cross Keys], Bishopsgate Street [i.e., the Bull], that nigh Paul's [i.e.,
Paul's singing school?], that on Ludgate Hill [i.e., the Bell Savage], and the Whitefriars[4]
were quite put down and suppressed by the care of these religious senators."

[Footnote 4: There is some error here. The city had no jurisdiction over Whitefriars, or Blackfriars
either; but there was a playhouse in Blackfriars at the time, and it was suppressed in 1584,
though not by the city authorities. Possibly Reulidge should have written "Whitechapel."]

Yet, in spite of what Reulidge says, these five inns continued to be used by the players for
many years.[5] No doubt they were often used surreptitiously. In Martin's Month's Mind (1589),
we read that a person "for a penie may have farre better [entertainment] by oddes at the Theatre
and Curtaine, and any blind playing house everie day."[6] But the more important troupes were
commonly able, through the interference of the Privy Council, to get official permission to
use the inns during a large part of each year.

[Footnote 5: The Remembrancia shows that the inn-playhouses remained for many years as sharp
thorns in the side of the puritanical city fathers.]

[Footnote 6: Grosart, Nash, I, 179.]

There is not enough material about these early inn-playhouses to enable one to write their
separate histories. Below, however, I have recorded in chronological order the more important
references to them which have come under my observation.

1557. On September 5 the Privy Council instructed the Lord Mayor of London "that some of his
officers do forthwith repair to the Boar's Head without Aldgate, where, the Lords are informed,
a lewd play called A Sackful of News shall be played this day," to arrest the players, and
send their playbook to the Council.[7]

[Footnote 7: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, VI, 168.]

1573. During this year there were various fencing contests held at the Bull in Bishopsgate.[8]

[Footnote 8: W. Rendle, The Inns of Old Southwark, p. 235.]

1577. In February the Office of the Revels made a payment of 10d. "ffor the cariadge of the
parts of ye well counterfeit from the Bell in gracious strete to St. Johns, to be performed
for the play of Cutwell."[9]

[Footnote 9: A. Feuillerat, Documents Relating to the Office of the Revels in the Time of Queen
Elizabeth, p. 277.]

1579. On June 23 James Burbage was arrested for the sum of £5 13d. "as he came down Gracious
Street towards the Cross Keys there to a play." The name of the proprietor of this inn-playhouse
is preserved in one of the interrogatories connected with the case: "Item. Whether did you,
John Hynde, about xiii years past, in anno 1579, the xxiii of June, about two of the clock
in the afternoon, send the sheriff's officer unto the Cross Keys in Gratious Street, being
then the dwelling house of Richard Ibotson, citizen and brewer of London," etc.[10] Nothing
more, I believe, is known of this person.

[Footnote 10: Burbage v. Brayne, printed in C.W. Wallace, The First London Theatre, pp. 82,
90. Whether Burbage was going to the Cross Keys as a spectator or as an actor is not indicated;
but the presumption is that he was then playing at the inn, although he was proprietor of the
Theatre.]

1579. Stephen Gosson, in The Schoole of Abuse, writes favorably of "the two prose books played
at the Bell Savage, where you shall find never a word without wit, never a line without pith,
never a letter placed in vain; the Jew and Ptolome, shown at the Bull ... neither with amorous
gesture wounding the eye, nor with slovenly talk hurting the ears of the chast hearers."[11]

[Footnote 11: Arber's English Reprints, p. 40.]

1582. On July 1 the Earl of Warwick wrote to the Lord Mayor requesting the city authorities
to "give license to my servant, John David, this bearer, to play his profest prizes in his
science and profession of defence at the Bull in Bishopsgate, or some other convenient place
to be assigned within the liberties of London." The Lord Mayor refused to allow David to give
his fencing contest "in an inn, which was somewhat too close for infection, and appointed him
to play in an open place of the Leaden Hall," which, it may be added, was near the Bull.[12]

[Footnote 12: See The Malone Society's Collections, I, 55-57.]

1583. William Rendle, in The Inns of Old Southwark, p. 235, states that in this year "Tarleton,
Wilson, and others note the stay of the plague, and ask leave to play at the Bull in Bishopsgate,
or the Bell in Gracechurch Street," citing as his authority merely "City MS." The Privy Council
on November 26, 1583, addressed to the Lord Mayor a letter requesting "that Her Majesty's Players
[i.e., Tarleton, Wilson, etc.] may be suffered to play within the liberties as heretofore they
have done."[13] And on November 28 the Lord Mayor issued to them a license to play "at the
sign of the Bull in Bishopsgate Street, and the sign of the Bell in Gracious Street, and nowhere
else within this City."[14]

[Footnote 13: See The Remembrancia, in The Malone Society's Collections, I, 66.]

[Footnote 14: C.W. Wallace, The First London Theatre, p. 11.]

1587. "James Cranydge played his master's prize the 21 of November, 1587, at the Bellsavage
without Ludgate, at iiij sundry kinds of weapons.... There played with him nine masters."[15]

[Footnote 15: MS. Sloane, 2530, f. 6-7, quoted by J.O. Halliwell in his edition of Tarlton's
Jests, p. xi. The Bell Savage seems to have been especially patronized by fencers. George Silver,
in his Paradoxe of Defence (1599), tells how he and his brother once challenged two Italian
fencers to a contest "to be played at the Bell Savage upon the scaffold, when he that went
in his fight faster back than he ought, should be in danger to break his neck off the scaffold."]

Before 1588. In Tarlton's Jests[16] we find a number of references to that famous actor's pleasantries
in the London inns used by the Queen's Players. It is impossible to date these exactly, but
Tarleton became a member of the Queen's Players in 1583, and he died in 1588.

[Footnote 16: First printed in 1611; reprinted by J.O. Halliwell for The Shakespeare Society
in 1844.]

     At the Bull in Bishops-gate-street, where the Queen's
     Players oftentimes played, Tarleton coming on the stage, one
     from the gallery threw a pippin at him.

     There was one Banks, in the time of Tarleton, who served the
     Earl of Essex, and had a horse of strange qualities; and
     being at the Cross Keys in Gracious Street getting money
     with him, as he was mightily resorted to. Tarleton then,
     with his fellows playing at the Bell by, came into the Cross
     Keys, amongst many people, to see fashions.

     At the Bull at Bishops-gate was a play of Henry the Fifth.

The several "jests" which follow these introductory sentences indicate that the inn-yards differed
in no essential way from the early public playhouses.

1588. There is some difficulty with the date. One of the "masters" before whom the prize was
played was "Rycharde Tarlton," whom Halliwell takes to be the famous actor of that name; but
Tarleton the actor died on September 3, 1588. Probably Halliwell in transcribing the manuscript
silently modernized the date from the Old Style.]

1589. In November Lord Burghley directed the Lord Mayor to "give order for the stay of all
plays within the city." In reply the Lord Mayor wrote:

     According to which your Lordship's good pleasure, I
     presently sent for such players as I could hear of; so as
     there appeared yesterday before me the Lord Strange's
     Players, to whom I specially gave in charge and required
     them in Her Majesty's name to forbear playing until further
     order might be given for their allowance in that respect.
     Whereupon the Lord Admiral's Players very dutifully obeyed;
     but the others, in very contemptuous manner departing from
     me, went to the Cross Keys and played that afternoon.[18]

[Footnote 18: Lansdowne MSS. 60, quoted by Collier, History of English Dramatic Poetry (1879),
I, 265.]

1594. On October 8, Henry, Lord Hunsdon, the Lord Chamberlain and the patron of Shakespeare's
company, wrote to the Lord Mayor:

     After my hearty commendations. Where my now company of
     players have been accustomed for the better exercise of
     their quality, and for the service of Her Majesty if need so
     require, to play this winter time within the city at the
     Cross Keys in Gracious Street, these are to require and pray
     your Lordship (the time being such as, thanks to God, there
     is now no danger of the sickness) to permit and suffer them
     so to do.[19]

[Footnote 19: The Remembrancia, The Malone Society's Collections, I, 73.]

By such devices as this the players were usually able to secure permission to act "within the
city" during the disagreeable months of the winter when the large playhouses in the suburbs
were difficult of access.

1594. Anthony Bacon, the elder brother of Francis, came to lodge in Bishopsgate Street. This
fact very much disturbed his good mother, who feared lest his servants might be corrupted by
the plays to be seen at the Bull near by.[20]

[Footnote 20: See W. Rendle, The Inns of Old Southwark, p. 236.]

1596. William Lambarde, in his Perambulation of Kent,[21] observes that none of those who go
"to Paris Garden, the Bell Savage, or Theatre, to behold bear-baiting, interludes, or fence
play, can account of any pleasant spectacle unless they first pay one penny at the gate, another
at the entry of the scaffold, and the third for a quiet standing."

[Footnote 21: The passage does not appear in the earlier edition of 1576, though it was probably
written shortly after the erection of the Theatre in the autumn of 1576.]

1602. On March 31 the Privy Council wrote to the Lord Mayor that the players of the Earl of
Oxford and of the Earl of Worcester had been "joined by agreement together in one company,
to whom, upon notice of Her Majesty's pleasure, at the suit of the Earl of Oxford, toleration
hath been thought meet to be granted." The letter concludes:

     And as the other companies that are allowed, namely of me
     the Lord Admiral, and the Lord Chamberlain, be appointed
     their certain houses, and one and no more to each company,
     so we do straightly require that this third company be
     likewise [appointed] to one place. And because we are
     informed the house called the Boar's Head is the place they
     have especially used and do best like of, we do pray and
     require you that the said house, namely the Boar's Head, may
     be assigned unto them.[22]

[Footnote 22: The Remembrancia, The Malone Society's Collections, I, 85.]

That the strong Oxford-Worcester combination should prefer the Boar's Head to the Curtain or
the Rose Playhouse,[23] indicates that the inn-yard was not only large, but also well-equipped
for acting.

[Footnote 23: They had to use the Rose nevertheless; see page 158.]

1604. In a draft of a license to be issued to Queen Anne's Company, those players are allowed
to act "as well within their now usual houses, called the Curtain and the Boar's Head, within
our County of Middlesex, as in any other playhouse not used by others."[24]

[Footnote 24: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 265.]

In 1608 the Boar's Head seems to have been occupied by the newly organized Prince Charles's
Company. In William Kelly's extracts from the payments of the city of Leicester we find the
entry: "Itm. Given to the Prince's Players, of Whitechapel, London, xx s."

In 1664, as Flecknoe tells us, the Cross Keys and the Bull still gave evidence of their former
use as playhouses; perhaps even then they were occasionally let for fencing and other contests.
In 1666 the great fire completely destroyed the Bell, the Cross Keys, and the Bell Savage;
the Bull, however, escaped, and enjoyed a prosperous career for many years after. Samuel Pepys
was numbered among its patrons, and writers of the Restoration make frequent reference to it.
What became of the Boar's Head without Aldgate I am unable to learn; its memory, however, is
perpetuated to-day in Boar's Head Yard, between Middlesex Street and Goulston Street, Whitechapel.

CHAPTER II

THE HOSTILITY OF THE CITY

As the actors rapidly increased in number and importance, and as Londoners flocked in ever
larger crowds to witness plays, the animosity of two forces was aroused, Puritanism and Civic
Government,--forces which opposed the drama for different reasons, but with almost equal fervor.
And when in the course of time the Governors of the city themselves became Puritans, the combined
animosity thus produced was sufficient to drive the players out of London into the suburbs.

The Puritans attacked the drama as contrary to Holy Writ, as destructive of religion, and as
a menace to public morality. Against plays, players, and playgoers they waged in pulpit and
pamphlet a warfare characterized by the most intense fanaticism. The charges they made--of
ungodliness, idolatrousness, lewdness, profanity, evil practices, enormities, and "abuses"
of all kinds--are far too numerous to be noted here; they are interesting chiefly for their
unreasonableness and for the violence with which they were urged.

And, after all, however much the Puritans might rage, they were helpless; authority to restrain
acting was vested in the Lord Mayor, his brethren the Aldermen, and the Common Council. The
attitude of these city officials towards the drama was unmistakable: they had no more love
for the actors than had the Puritans. They found that "plays and players" gave them more trouble
than anything else in the entire administration of municipal affairs. The dedication of certain
"great inns" to the use of actors and to the entertainment of the pleasure-loving element of
the city created new and serious problems for those charged with the preservation of civic
law and order. The presence in these inns of private rooms adjoining the yard and balconies
gave opportunity for immorality, gambling, fleecing, and various other "evil practices"--an
opportunity which, if we may believe the Common Council, was not wasted. Moreover, the proprietors
of these inns made a large share of their profits from the beer, ale, and other drinks dispensed
to the crowds before, during, and after performances (the proprietor of the Cross Keys, it
will be recalled, was described as "citizen and brewer of London"); and the resultant intemperance
among "such as frequented the said plays, being the ordinary place of meeting for all vagrant
persons, and masterless men that hang about the city, theeves, horse-stealers, whoremongers,
cozeners, cony-catching persons, practicers of treason, and such other like,"[25] led to drunkenness,
frays, bloodshed, and often to general disorder. Sometimes, as we know, turbulent apprentices
and other factions met by appointment at plays for the sole purpose of starting riots or breaking
open jails. "Upon Whitsunday," writes the Recorder to Lord Burghley, "by reason no plays were
the same day, all the city was quiet."[26]

[Footnote 25: So the Lord Mayor characterized playgoers; see The Remembrancia, in The Malone
Society's Collections, I, 75.]

[Footnote 26: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 164.]

Trouble of an entirely different kind arose when in the hot months of the summer the plague
was threatening. The meeting together at plays of "great multitudes of the basest sort of people"
served to spread the infection throughout the city more quickly and effectively than could
anything else. On such occasions it was exceedingly difficult for the municipal authorities
to control the actors, who were at best a stubborn and unruly lot; and often the pestilence
had secured a full start before acting could be suppressed.

These troubles, and others which cannot here be mentioned, made one of the Lord Mayors exclaim
in despair: "The Politique State and Government of this City by no one thing is so greatly
annoyed and disquieted as by players and plays, and the disorders which follow thereupon."[27]

[Footnote 27: The Remembrancia, in The Malone Society's Collections, I, 69.]

This annoyance, serious enough in itself, was aggravated by the fact that most of the troupes
were under the patronage of great noblemen, and some were even high in favor with the Queen.
As a result, the attempts on the part of the Lord Mayor and his Aldermen to regulate the players
were often interfered with by other or higher authority. Sometimes it was a particular nobleman,
whose request was not to be ignored, who intervened in behalf of his troupe; most often, however,
it was the Privy Council, representing the Queen and the nobility in general, which championed
the cause of the actors and countermanded the decrees of the Lord Mayor and his brethren. One
of the most notable things in the City's Remembrancia is this long conflict of authority between
the Common Council and the Privy Council over actors and acting.

In 1573 the situation seems to have approached a crisis. The Lord Mayor had become strongly
puritanical, and in his efforts to suppress "stage-plays" was placing more and more obstacles
in the way of the actors. The temper of the Mayor is revealed in two entries in the records
of the Privy Council. On July 13, 1573, the Lords of the Council sent a letter to him requesting
him "to permit liberty to certain Italian players"; six days later they sent a second letter,
repeating the request, and "marveling that he did it not at their first request."[28] His continued
efforts to suppress the drama finally led the troupes to appeal for relief to the Privy Council.
On March 22, 1574, the Lords of the Council dispatched "a letter to the Lord Mayor to advertise
their Lordships what causes he hath to restrain plays." His answer has not been preserved,
but that he persisted in his hostility to the drama is indicated by the fact that in May the
Queen openly took sides with the players. To the Earl of Leicester's troupe she issued a special
royal license, authorizing them to act "as well within our city of London and liberties of
the same, as also within the liberties and freedoms of any our cities, towns, boroughs, etc.,
whatsoever"; and to the mayors and other officers she gave strict orders not to interfere with
such performances: "Willing and commanding you, and every of you, as ye tender our pleasure,
to permit and suffer them herein without any your lets, hindrances, or molestation during the
term aforesaid, any act, statute, proclamation, or commandment heretofore made, or hereafter
to be made, to the contrary notwithstanding."

[Footnote 28: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, VIII, 131, 132.]

This license was a direct challenge to the authority of the Lord
Mayor. He dared not answer it as directly; but on December 6, 1574, he
secured from the Common Council the passage of an ordinance which
placed such heavy restrictions upon acting as virtually to nullify the
license issued by the Queen, and to regain for the Mayor complete
control of the drama within the city. And whereas in time of God's visitation by the
     plague such assemblies of the people in throng and press
     have been very dangerous for spreading of infection.... And
     for that the Lord Mayor and his brethren the Aldermen,
     together with the grave and discreet citizens in the Common
     Council assembled, do doubt and fear lest upon God's
     merciful withdrawing his hand of sickness from us (which God
     grant), the people, specially the meaner and most unruly
     sort, should with sudden forgetting of His visitation,
     without fear of God's wrath, and without due respect of the
     good and politique means that He hath ordained for the
     preservation of common weals and peoples in health and good
     order, return to the undue use of such enormities, to the
     great offense of God....[29]

[Footnote 29: For the complete document see W.C. Hazlitt, The English Drama and Stage, p. 27.]

The restrictions on playing imposed by the ordinance may be briefly summarized:

1. Only such plays should be acted as were free from all unchastity, seditiousness, and "uncomely
matter."

2. Before being acted all plays should be "first perused and allowed in such order and form,
and by such persons as by the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen for the time being shall be
appointed."

3. Inns or other buildings used for acting, and their proprietors, should both be licensed
by the Lord Mayor and the Aldermen.

4. The proprietors of such buildings should be "bound to the Chamberlain of London" by a sufficient
bond to guarantee "the keeping of good order, and avoiding of" the inconveniences noted in
the Preamble.

5. No plays should be given during the time of sickness, or during any inhibition ordered at
any time by the city authorities.

6. No plays should be given during "any usual time of divine service," and no persons should
be admitted into playing places until after divine services were over.

7. The proprietors of such places should pay towards the support of the poor a sum to be agreed
upon by the city authorities.

In order, however, to avoid trouble with the Queen, or those noblemen who were accustomed to
have plays given in their homes for the private entertainment of themselves and their guests,
the Common Council added, rather grudgingly, the following proviso:

     Provided alway that this act (otherwise than touching the
     publishing of unchaste, seditious, and unmeet matters) shall
     not extend to any plays, interludes, comedies, tragedies, or
     shews to be played or shewed in the private house, dwelling,
     or lodging of any nobleman, citizen, or gentleman, which
     shall or will then have the same there so played or shewed
     in his presence for the festivity of any marriage, assembly
     of friends, or other like cause, without public or common
     collections of money of the auditory or beholders thereof.

Such regulations if strictly enforced would prove very annoying to the players. But, as the
Common Council itself informs us, "these orders were not then observed." The troupes continued
to play in the city, protected against any violent action on the part of the municipal authorities
by the known favor of the Queen and the frequent interference of the Privy Council. This state
of affairs was not, of course, comfortable for the actors; but it was by no means desperate,
and for several years after the passage of the ordinance of 1574 they continued without serious
interruption to occupy their inn-playhouses.

The long-continued hostility of the city authorities, however, of which the ordinance of 1574
was an ominous expression, led more or less directly to the construction of special buildings
devoted to plays and situated beyond the jurisdiction of the Common Council. As the Reverend
John Stockwood, in A Sermon Preached at Paules Crosse, 1578, indignantly puts it:

     Have we not houses of purpose, built with great charges
     for the maintenance of plays, and that without the
     liberties, as who would say "There, let them say what they
     will say, we will play!"

Thus came into existence playhouses; and with them dawned a new era in the history of the English
drama.

CHAPTER III

THE THEATRE

The hostility of the city to the drama was unquestionably the main cause of the erection of
the first playhouse; yet combined with this were two other important causes, usually overlooked.
The first was the need of a building specially designed to meet the requirements of the players
and of the public, a need yearly growing more urgent as plays became more complex, acting developed
into a finer art, and audiences increased in dignity as well as in size. The second and the
more immediate cause was the appearance of a man with business insight enough to see that such
a building would pay. The first playhouse, we should remember, was not erected by a troupe
of actors, but by a money-seeking individual.[30] Although he was himself an actor, and the
manager of a troupe, he did not, it seems, take the troupe into his confidence. In complete
independence of any theatrical organization he proceeded with the erection of his building
as a private speculation; and, we are told, he dreamed of the "continual great profit and commodity
through plays that should be used there every week."

[Footnote 30: I emphasize this point because the opposite is the accepted opinion. We find
it expressed in The Cambridge History of English Literature, VI, 431, as follows: "Certain
players, finding the city obdurate, and unwilling to submit to its severe regulations, began
to look about them for some means of carrying on their business out of reach of the mayor's
authority," etc.]

This man, "the first builder of playhouses,"--and, it might have been added, the pioneer in
a new field of business,--was James Burbage, originally, as we are told by one who knew him
well, "by occupation a joiner; and reaping but a small living by the same, gave it over and
became a common player in plays."[31] As an actor he was more successful, for as early as 1572
we find him at the head of Leicester's excellent troupe.

[Footnote 31: Deposition by Robert Myles, 1592, printed in Wallace's The First London Theatre,
p. 141.]

Having in 1575 conceived the notion of erecting a building specially designed for dramatic
entertainments, he was at once confronted with the problem of a suitable location. Two conditions
narrowed his choice: first, the site had to be outside the jurisdiction of the Common Council;
secondly, it had to be as near as possible to the city.

No doubt he at once thought of the two suburbs that were specially devoted to recreation, the
Bankside to the south, and Finsbury Field to the north of the city. The Bankside had for many
years been associated in the minds of Londoners with "sports and pastimes." Thither the citizens
were accustomed to go to witness bear-baiting and bull-baiting, to practice archery, and to
engage in various athletic sports. Thither, too, for many years the actors had gone to present
their plays. In 1545 King Henry VIII had issued a proclamation against vagabonds, ruffians,
idle persons, and common players,[32] in which he referred to their "fashions commonly used
at the Bank." The Bankside, however, was associated with the lowest and most vicious pleasures
of London, for here were situated the stews, bordering the river's edge. Since the players
were at this time subject to the bitterest attacks from the London preachers, Burbage wisely
decided not to erect the first permanent home of the drama in a locality already a common target
for puritan invective.

[Footnote 32: See page 134.]

The second locality, Finsbury Field, had nearly all the advantages, and none of the disadvantages,
of the Bankside. Since 1315 the Field had been in the possession of the city,[33] and had been
used as a public playground, where families could hold picnics, falconers could fly their hawks,
archers could exercise their sport, and the militia on holidays could drill with all "the pomp
and circumstance of glorious war." In short, the Field was eminently respectable, was accessible
to the city, and was definitely associated with the idea of entertainment. The locality, therefore,
was almost ideal for the purpose Burbage had in mind.[34]

[Footnote 33: See The Remembrancia, p. 274; Stow, Survey. The Corporation of London held the
manor on lease from St. Paul's Cathedral until 1867.]

[Footnote 34: Doubtless, too, Burbage was influenced in his choice by the fact that he had
already made his home in the Liberty of Shoreditch, near Finsbury Field.]

The new playhouse, of course, could not be erected in the Field itself, which was under the
control of the city; but just to the east of the Field certain vacant land, part of the dissolved
Priory of Holywell, offered a site in every way suitable to the purpose. The Holywell property,
at the dissolution of the Priory, had passed under the jurisdiction of the Crown, and hence
the Lord Mayor and the Aldermen could not enforce municipal ordinances there. Moreover, it
was distant from the city wall not much more than half a mile. The old conventual church had
been demolished, the Priory buildings had been converted into residences, and the land near
the Shoreditch highway had been built up with numerous houses. The land next to the Field,
however, was for the most part undeveloped. It contained some dilapidated tenements, a few
old barns formerly belonging to the Priory, and small garden plots, conspicuous objects in
the early maps.

Burbage learned that a large portion of this land lying next to the Field was in the possession
of a well-to-do gentleman named Gyles Alleyn,[35] and that Alleyn was willing to lease a part
of his holding on the conditions of development customary in this section of London. These
conditions are clearly revealed in a chancery suit of 1591:

     The ground there was for the most part converted first into
     garden plots, and then leasing the same to diverse tenants
     caused them to covenant or promise to build upon the same,
     by occasion whereof the buildings which are there were for
     the most part erected and the rents increased.[36]

[Footnote 35: For a detailed history of the property from the year 1128, and for the changes
in the ownership of Alleyn's portion after the dissolution, see Braines, Holywell Priory.]

[Footnote 36: Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 365. The suit concerns the Curtain property,
somewhat south of the Alleyn property, but a part of the Priory.]

The part of Alleyn's property on which Burbage had his eye was in sore need of improvement.
It consisted of five "paltry tenements," described as "old, decayed, and ruinated for want
of reparation, and the best of them was but of two stories high," and a long barn "very ruinous
and decayed and ready to have fallen down," one half of which was used as a storage-room, the
other half as a slaughter-house. Three of the tenements had small gardens extending back to
the Field, and just north of the barn was a bit of "void ground," also adjoining the Field.
It was this bit of "void ground" that Burbage had selected as a suitable location for his proposed
playhouse. The accompanying map of the property[37] will make clear the position of this "void
ground" and of the barns and tenements about it. Moreover, it will serve to indicate the exact
site of the Theatre. If one will bear in mind the fact that in the London of to-day Curtain
Road marks the eastern boundary of Finsbury Field, and New Inn Yard cuts off the lower half
of the Great Barn, he will be able to place Burbage's structure within a few yards.[38]

[Footnote 37: I have based this map in large measure on the documents presented by Braines
in his excellent pamphlet, Holywell Priory.]

[Footnote 38: For proof see Braines, op. cit.]

The property is carefully described in the lease--quoted below--which Burbage secured from
Alleyn, but the reader will need to refer to the map in order to follow with ease the several
paragraphs of description:[39]

     All those two houses or tenements, with appurtenances, which
     at the time of the said former demise made were in the
     several tenures or occupations of Joan Harrison, widow, and
     John Dragon.

     And also all that house or tenement with the appurtenances,
     together with the garden ground lying behind part of the
     same, being then likewise in the occupation of William
     Gardiner; which said garden plot doth extend in breadth from
     a great stone wall there which doth enclose part of the
     garden then or lately being in the occupation of the said
     Gyles, unto the garden there then in the occupation of Edwin
     Colefox, weaver, and in length from the same house or
     tenement unto a brick wall there next unto the fields
     commonly called Finsbury Fields.

     And also all that house or tenement, with the appurtenances,
     at the time of the said former demise made called or known
     by the name of the Mill-house; together with the garden
     ground lying behind part of the same, also at the time of
     the said former demise made being in the tenure or
     occupation of the aforesaid Edwin Colefox, or of his
     assigns; which said garden ground doth extend in length from
     the same house or tenement unto the aforesaid brick wall
     next unto the aforesaid Fields.

     And also all those three upper rooms, with the
     appurtenances, next adjoining to the aforesaid Mill-house,
     also being at the time of the said former demise made in the
     occupation of Thomas Dancaster, shoemaker, or of his
     assigns; and also all the nether rooms, with the
     appurtenances, lying under the same three upper rooms, and
     next adjoining also to the aforesaid house or tenement
     called the Mill-house, then also being in the several
     tenures or occupations of Alice Dotridge, widow, and Richard
     Brockenbury, or of their assigns; together with the garden
     ground lying behind the same, extending in length from the
     same nether rooms down unto the aforesaid brick wall next
     unto the aforesaid Fields, and then or late being also in
     the tenure or occupation of the aforesaid Alice Dotridge.

     And also so much of the ground and soil lying and being
     afore all the tenements or houses before granted, as
     extendeth in length from the outward part of the aforesaid
     tenements being at the time of the making of the said former
     demise in the occupation of the aforesaid Joan Harrison and
     John Dragon, unto a pond there being next unto the barn or
     stable then in the occupation of the right honorable the
     Earl of Rutland or of his assigns, and in breadth from the
     aforesaid tenement or Mill-house to the midst of the well
     being afore the same tenements.

     And also all that Great Barn, with the appurtenances, at the
     time of the making of the said former demise made being in
     the several occupations of Hugh Richards, innholder, and
     Robert Stoughton, butcher; and also a little piece of ground
     then inclosed with a pale and next adjoining to the
     aforesaid barn, and then or late before that in the
     occupation of the said Robert Stoughton; together also with
     all the ground and soil lying and being between the said
     nether rooms last before expressed, and the aforesaid Great
     Barn, and the aforesaid pond; that is to say, extending in
     length from the aforesaid pond unto a ditch beyond the brick
     wall next the aforesaid Fields.

     And also the said Gyles Alleyn and Sara his wife do by these
     presents demise, grant, and to farm lett unto the said James
     Burbage all the right, title, and interest which the said
     Gyles and Sara have or ought to have in or to all the
     grounds and soil lying between the aforesaid Great Barn and
     the barn being at the time of the said former demise in the
     occupation of the Earl of Rutland or of his assigns,
     extending in length from the aforesaid pond and from the
     aforesaid stable or barn then in the occupation of the
     aforesaid Earl of Rutland or of his assigns, down to the
     aforesaid brick wall next the aforesaid Fields.[40]

     And also the said Gyles and Sara do by these presents
     demise, grant, and to farm lett to the said James all the
     said void ground lying and being betwixt the aforesaid ditch
     and the aforesaid brick wall, extending in length from the
     aforesaid [great stone] wall[41] which encloseth part of the
     aforesaid garden being at the time of the making of the said
     former demise or late before that in the occupation of the
     said Gyles Allen, unto the aforesaid barn then in the
     occupation of the aforesaid Earl or of his assigns.

[Footnote 39: The original lease may be found incorporated in Alleyn v. Street, Coram Rege,
1599-1600, printed in full by Wallace, The First London Theatre, pp. 163-80, and again in Alleyn
v. Burbage, Queen's Bench, 1602, Wallace, op. cit., pp. 267-75. The lease, I think, was in
English not Latin, and hence is more correctly given in the first document; in the second document
the scrivener has translated it into Latin. The lease is also given in part on page 187.]

[Footnote 40: This part of the property was claimed by the Earl of Rutland, and was being used
by him. For a long time it was the subject of dispute. Ultimately, it seems, the Earl secured
the title, as he had always had the use of the property. This probably explains why Burbage
did not attempt to erect his playhouse there.]

[Footnote 41: The document by error reads "brick wall" but the mistake is obvious, and the
second version of the lease does not repeat the error. This clause merely means that the ditch,
not the brick wall, constituted the western boundary of the property.]

The lease was formally signed on April 13, 1576, and Burbage entered into the possession of
his property. Since the terms of the lease are important for an understanding of the subsequent
history of the playhouse, I shall set these forth briefly:

First, the lease was to run for twenty-one years from April 13, 1576, at an annual rental of £14.

Secondly, Burbage was to spend before the expiration of ten years the sum of £200 in rebuilding
and improving the decayed tenements.

Thirdly, in view of this expenditure of £200, Burbage was to have at the end of the ten years
the right to renew the lease at the same rental of £14 a year for twenty-one years, thus making
the lease good in all for thirty-one years:

     And the said Gyles Alleyn and Sara his wife did thereby
     covenant with the said James Burbage that they should and
     would at any time within the ten years next ensuing at or
     upon the lawful request or demand of the said James Burbage
     make or cause to be made to the said James Burbage a new
     lease or grant like to the same presents for the term of one
     and twenty years more, to begin from the date of making the
     same lease, yielding therefor the rent reserved in the
     former indenture.[42]

[Footnote 42: Quoted from Burbage v. Alleyn, Court of Requests, 1600, Wallace, op. cit., p.
182. He must have had faith and abundant courage, for he was a poor man, quite unequal to the
large expenditures called for by his plans. A person who had known him for many years, deposed
in 1592 that "James Burbage was not at the time of the first beginning of the building of the
premises worth above one hundred marks[44] in all his substance, for he and this deponent were
familiarly acquainted long before that time and ever since."[45] We are not surprised to learn,
therefore, that he was "constrained to borrow diverse sums of money," and that he actually
pawned the lease itself to a money-lender.[46] Even so, without assistance, we are told, he
"should never be able to build it, for it would cost five times as much as he was worth."

[Footnote 44: That is, about £80.]

[Footnote 45: Wallace, op. cit., p. 134; cf. p. 153.]

[Footnote 46: Wallace, op. cit., p. 151. Cuthbert Burbage declared in 1635: "The Theatre he
built with many hundred pounds taken up at interest." (Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 317.)]

Fortunately he had a wealthy brother-in-law, John Brayne,[47] a London grocer, described as
"worth five hundred pounds at the least, and by common fame worth a thousand marks."[48] In
some way Brayne became interested in the new venture. Like Burbage, he believed that large
profits would flow from such a novel undertaking; and as a result he readily agreed to share
the expense of erecting and maintaining the building. Years later members of the Brayne faction
asserted that James Burbage "induced" his brother-in-law to venture upon the enterprise by
unfairly representing the great profits to ensue;[49] but the evidence, I think, shows that
Brayne eagerly sought the partnership. Burbage himself asserted in 1588 that Brayne "practiced
to obtain some interest therein," and presumed "that he might easily compass the same by reason
that he was natural brother"; and that he voluntarily offered to "bear and pay half the charges
of the said building then bestowed and thereafter to be bestowed" in order "that he might have
the moiety[50] of the above named Theatre."[51] As a further inducement, so the Burbages asserted,
he promised that "for that he had no children," the moiety at his death should go to the children
of James Burbage, "whose advancement he then seemed greatly to tender."

[Footnote 47: The name is often spelled "Braynes."]

[Footnote 48: Wallace, op. cit., p. 109.]

[Footnote 49: See Wallace, op. cit., pp. 139 seq.]

[Footnote 50: That is, half-interest.]

[Footnote 51: Wallace, op. cit., p. 40.]

Whatever caused Brayne to interest himself in the venture, he quickly became fired with such
hopes of great gain that he not only spent upon the building all the money he could gather
or borrow, but sold his stock of groceries for £146, disposed of his house for £100, even pawned
his clothes, and put his all into the new structure. The spirit in which he worked to make
the venture a success, and the personal sacrifices that he and his wife made, fully deserve
the quotation here of two legal depositions bearing on the subject:

     This deponent, being servant, in Bucklersbury, aforesaid, to
     one Robert Kenningham, grocer, in which street the said John
     Brayne dwelled also, and of the same trade, he, the said
     Brayne, at the time he joined with the said James Burbage in
     the aforesaid lease, was reputed among his neighbors to be
     worth one thousand pounds at the least, and that after he
     had joined with the said Burbage in the matter of the
     building of the said Theatre, he began to slack his own
     trade, and gave himself to the building thereof, and the
     chief care thereof he took upon him, and hired workmen of
     all sorts for that purpose, bought timber and all other
     things belonging thereunto, and paid all. So as, in this
     deponent's conscience, he bestowed thereupon for his owne
     part the sum of one thousand marks at the least, in so much
     as his affection was given so greatly to the finishing
     thereof, in hope of great wealth and profit during their
     lease, that at the last he was driven to sell to this
     deponent's father his lease of the house wherein he dwelled
     for £100, and to this deponent all such wares as he had left
     and all that belonged thereunto remaining in the same, for
     the sum of £146 and odd money, whereof this deponent did pay
     for him to one Kymbre, an ironmonger in London, for iron
     work which the said Brayne bestowed upon the said Theatre,
     the sum of £40. And afterwards the said Brayne took the
     matter of the said building so upon him as he was driven to
     borrow money to supply the same, saying to this deponent
     that his brother Burbage was not able to help the same, and
     that he found not towards it above the value of fifty
     pounds, some part in mony and the rest in stuff.[52]

[Footnote 52: Wallace, op. cit., p. 136.]

In reading the next deposition, one should bear in mind the fact that the deponent, Robert
Myles, was closely identified with the Brayne faction, and was, therefore, a bitter enemy to
the Burbages. Yet his testimony, though prejudiced, gives us a vivid picture of Brayne's activity
in the building of the Theatre:

     So the said John Brayne made a great sum of money of purpose
     and intent to go to the building of the said playhouse, and
     thereupon did provide timber and other stuff needful for the
     building thereof, and hired carpenters and plasterers for
     the same purpose, and paid the workmen continually. So as he
     for his part laid out of his own purse and what upon credit
     about the same to the sum of £600 or £700 at the least. And
     in the same time, seeing the said James Burbage nothing able
     either of himself or by his credit to contribute any like
     sum towards the building thereof, being then to be finished
     or else to be lost that had been bestowed upon it already,
     the said Brayne was driven to sell his house he dwelled in
     in Bucklersbury, and all his stock that was left, and give
     up his trade, yea in the end to pawn and sell both his own
     garments and his wife's, and to run in debt to many for
     money, to finish the said playhouse, and so to employ
     himself only upon that matter, and all whatsoever he could
     make, to his utter undoing, for he saieth that in the latter
     end of the finishing thereof, the said Brayne and his wife,
     the now complainants, were driven to labor in the said work
     for saving of some of the charge in place of two laborers,
     whereas the said James Burbage went about his own business,
     and at sometimes when he did take upon him to do some thing
     in the said work, he would be and was allowed a workman's
     hire as other the workman there had.[53]

[Footnote 53: Brayne v. Burbage, 1592. Printed in full by Wallace, op cit. p. 141.]

The last fling at Burbage is quite gratuitous; yet it is probably true that the main costs
of erecting the playhouse fell upon the shoulders of Brayne. The evidence is contradictory;
some persons assert that Burbage paid half the cost of the building,[54] others that Brayne
paid nearly all,[55] and still others content themselves with saying that Brayne paid considerably
more than half. The last statement may be accepted as true. The assertion of Gyles Alleyn in
1601, that the Theatre was "erected at the costs and charges of one Brayne and not of the said
James Burbage, to the value of one thousand marks,"[56] is doubtless incorrect; more correct
is the assertion of Robert Myles, executor of the Widow Brayne's will, in 1597: "The said John
Brayne did join with the said James [Burbage] in the building aforesaid, and did expend thereupon
greater sums than the said James, that is to say, at least five or six hundred pounds."[57]
Since there is evidence that the playhouse ultimately cost about £700,[58] we might hazard
the guess that of this sum Brayne furnished about £500,[59] and Burbage about £200. To equalize
the expenditure it was later agreed that "the said Brayne should take and receive all the rents
and profits of the said Theatre to his own use until he should be answered such sums of money
which he had laid out for and upon the same Theatre more than the said Burbage had done."[60]

[Footnote 54: Wallace, op. cit., pp. 213, 217, 263, 265, et al.]

[Footnote 55: Wallace, op. cit., pp. 137, 141, 142, 148, 153.]

[Footnote 56: Alleyn v. Burbage, Star Chamber Proceedings, 1601-02; printed by Wallace, op.
cit., p. 277.]

[Footnote 57: Myles v. Burbage and Alleyn, 1597; printed by Wallace, op. cit., p. 159; cf.
pp. 263, 106, 152.]

[Footnote 58: See Wallace, op. cit., p. 277.]

[Footnote 59: This agrees with the claim of Brayne's widow.]

[Footnote 60: Wallace, op. cit., p. 120.]

But if Burbage at the outset was "nothing able to contribute any" great sum of ready money
towards the building of the first playhouse, he did contribute other things equally if not
more important. In the first place, he conceived the idea, and he carried it as far towards
realization as his means allowed. In the second place, he planned the building--its stage as
well as its auditorium--to meet the special demands of the actors and the comfort of the audience.
This called for bold originality and for ingenuity of a high order, for, it must be remembered,
he had no model to study--he was designing the first structure of its kind in England.[61]
For this task he was well prepared. In the first place, he was an actor of experience; in the
second place, he was the manager of one of the most important troupes in England; and, in the
third place, he was by training and early practice a carpenter and builder. In other words,
he had exact knowledge of what was needed, and the practical skill to meet those needs.

[Footnote 61: Mr. E.K. Chambers (The Mediæval Stage, I, 383, note 2; II, 190, note 4) calls
attention to a "theatre" belonging to the city of Essex as early as 1548. Possibly the Latin
document he cites referred to an amphitheatre of some sort near the city which was used for
dramatic performances; at any rate "in theatro" does not necessarily imply the existence of
a playhouse (cf., for example, op. cit., I, 81-82). There is also a reference (quoted by Chambers,
op. cit., II, 191, note 1, from Norfolk Archæology, XI, 336) to a "game-house" built by the
corporation of Yarmouth in 1538 for dramatic performances. What kind of house this was we do
not know, but the corporation leased it for other purposes, with the proviso that it should
be available "at all such times as any interludes or plays should be ministered or played."
Howes, in his continuation of Stow's Annals (1631), p. 1004, declares that before Burbage's
time he "neither knew, heard, nor read of any such theatres, set stages, or playhouses as have
been purposely built, within man's memory"; and Cuthbert Burbage confidently asserted that
his father "was the first builder of playhouses"--an assertion which, I think, cannot well
be denied.]

The building that he designed and erected he named--as by virtue of priority he had a right
to do--"The Theatre."

Of the Theatre, unfortunately, we have no pictorial representation, and no formal description,
so that our knowledge of its size, shape, and general arrangement must be derived from scattered
and miscellaneous sources. That the building was large we may feel sure; the cost of its erection
indicates as much. The Fortune, one of the largest and handsomest of the later playhouses,
cost only £520, and the Hope, also very large, cost £360. The Theatre, therefore, built at
a cost of £700, could not have been small. It is commonly referred to, even so late as 1601,
as "the great house called the Theatre," and the author of Skialetheia (1598) applied to it
the significant adjective "vast." Burbage, no doubt, had learned from his experience as manager
of a troupe the pecuniary advantage of having an auditorium large enough to receive all who
might come. Exactly how many people his building could accommodate we cannot say.

[Footnote 62: The rest of his speech indicates that he had the Theatre in mind. The passage,
of course, is rhetorical.]

In shape the building was probably polygonal, or circular. I see no good reason for supposing
that it was square; Johannes de Witt referred to it as an "amphitheatre," and the Curtain,
erected the following year in imitation, was probably polygonal.[63] It was built of timber,
and its exterior, no doubt, was--as in the case of subsequent playhouses--of lime and plaster.
The interior consisted of three galleries surrounding an open space called the "yard." The
German traveler, Samuel Kiechel, who visited London in the autumn of 1585, described the playhouses--i.e.,
the Theatre and the Curtain--as "singular [sonderbare] houses, which are so constructed that
they have about three galleries, one above the other."[64] And Stephen Gosson, in Plays Confuted
(c. 1581) writes: "In the playhouses at London, it is the fashion for youths to go first into
the yard, and to carry their eye through every gallery; then, like unto ravens, where they
spy the carrion, thither they fly, and press as near to the fairest as they can." The "yard"
was unroofed, and all persons there had to stand during the entire performance. The galleries,
however, were protected by a roof, were divided into "rooms," and were provided for the most
part with seats. Gyles Alleyn inserted in the lease he granted to Burbage the following condition:

     And further, that it shall or may [be] lawful for the said
     Gyles and for his wife and family, upon lawful request
     therefor made to the said James Burbage, his executors or
     assigns, to enter or come into the premises, and there in
     some one of the upper rooms to have such convenient place to
     sit or stand to see such plays as shall be there played,
     freely without anything therefor paying.[65]

[Footnote 63: One cannot be absolutely sure, yet the whole history of early playhouses indicates
that the Theatre was polygonal (or circular) in shape. The only reason for suspecting that
it might have been square, doubtfully presented by T.S. Graves in "The Shape of the First London
Theatre" (The South Atlantic Quarterly, July, 1914), seems to me to deserve no serious consideration.]

[Footnote 64: Quoted by W.B. Rye, England as Seen by Foreigners, p. 88.]

[Footnote 65: Wallace, op. cit., p. 177.]

The stage was a platform, projecting into the yard, with a tiring-house at the rear, and a
balcony overhead. The details of the stage, no doubt, were subject to alteration as experience
suggested, for its materials were of wood, and histrionic and dramatic art were both undergoing
rapid development.[66] The furnishings and decorations, as in the case of modern playhouses,
seem to have been ornate. Thus T[homas] W[hite], in A Sermon Preached at Pawles Crosse, on
Sunday the Thirde of November, 1577, exclaims: "Behold the sumptuous Theatre houses, a continual
monument of London's prodigality"; John Stockwood, in A Sermon Preached at Paules Cross, 1578,
refers to it as "the gorgeous playing place erected in the Fields"; and Gabriel Harvey could
think of no more appropriate epithet for it than "painted"--"painted theatres," "painted stage."

[Footnote 66: There is no reason whatever to suppose, with Ordish, Mantzius, Lawrence, and
others, that the stage of the Theatre was removable; for although the building was frequently
used by fencers, tumblers, etc., it was never, so far as I can discover, used for animal-baiting.]

The building was doubtless used for dramatic performances in the autumn of 1576, although it
was not completed until later; John Grigges, one of the carpenters, deposed that Burbage and
Brayne "finished the same with the help of the profits that grew by plays used there before
it was fully finished."[67] Access to the playhouse was had chiefly by way of Finsbury Field
and a passage made by Burbage through the brick wall mentioned in the lease.[68]

[Footnote 67: Wallace, op. cit., p. 135.]

[Footnote 68: For depositions to this effect see Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 350 ff.]

The terms under which the owners let it to the actors were simple: the actors retained as their
share the pennies paid at the outer doors for general admission, and the proprietors received
as their share the money paid for seats or standings in the galleries.[69] Cuthbert Burbage
states in 1635: "The players that lived in those first times had only the profits arising from
the doors, but now the players receive all the comings in at the doors to themselves, and half
the galleries."[70]

[Footnote 69: I suspect that the same terms were made with the actors by the proprietors of
the inn-playhouses.]

[Footnote 70: Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 317.]

Before the expiration of two years, or in the early summer of 1578, Burbage and Brayne began
to quarrel about the division of the money which fell to their share. Brayne apparently thought
that he should at once be indemnified for all the money he had expended on the playhouse in
excess of Burbage; and he accused Burbage of "indirect dealing"--there were even whispers of
"a secret key" to the "common box" in which the money was kept.[71] Finally they agreed to
"submit themselves to the order and arbitrament of certain persons for the pacification thereof,"
and together they went to the shop of a notary public to sign a bond agreeing to abide by the
decision of the arbitrators. There they "fell a reasoning together," in the course of which
Brayne asserted that he had disbursed in the Theatre "three times at the least as much more
as the sum then disbursed by the said James Burbage." In the end Brayne unwisely hinted at
"ill dealing" on the part of Burbage, whereupon "Burbage did there strike him with his fist,
and so they went together by the ears, in so much," says the notary, "that this deponent could
hardly part them." After they were parted, they signed a bond of £200 to abide by the decision
of the arbitrators. The arbitrators, John Hill and Richard Turnor, "men of great honesty and
credit," held their sessions "in the Temple church," whither they summoned witnesses. Finally,
on July 12, 1578, after "having thoroughly heard" both sides, they awarded that the profits
from the Theatre should be used first to pay the debts upon the building, then to pay Brayne
the money he had expended in excess of Burbage, and thereafter to be shared "in divident equally
between them."[72] These conditions, however, were not observed, and the failure to observe
them led to much subsequent discord.

[Footnote 71: Wallace, op. cit., pp. 142, 148.]

[Footnote 72: For the history of this quarrel, and for other details of the award see Wallace,
op. cit., pp. 102, 119, 138, 142, 143, 148, 152.]

The arbitrators also decided that "if occasion should move them [Burbage and Brayne] to borrow
any sum of money for the payment of their debts owing for any necessary use and thing concerning
the said Theatre, that then the said James Burbage and the said John Brayne should join in
pawning or mortgageing of their estate and interest of and in the same."[73] An occasion for
borrowing money soon arose. So on September 26, 1579, the two partners mortgaged the Theatre
to John Hide for the sum of £125 8s. 11d. At the end of a year, by non-payment, they forfeited
the mortgage, and the legal title to the property passed to Hide. It seems, however, that because
of some special clause in the mortgage Hide was unable to expel Burbage and Brayne, or to dispose
of the property to others. Hence he took no steps to seize the Theatre; but he constantly annoyed
the occupants by arrest and otherwise. This unfortunate transference of the title to Hide was
the cause of serious quarreling between the Burbages and the Braynes, and finally led to much
litigation.

[Footnote 73: Wallace, op. cit., p. 103.]

In 1582 a more immediate disaster threatened the owners of the Theatre. One Edmund Peckham
laid claim to the land on which the playhouse had been built, and brought suit against Alleyn
for recovery. More than that, Peckham tried to take actual possession of the playhouse, so
that Burbage "was fain to find men at his own charge to keep the possession thereof from the
said Peckham and his servants," and was even "once in danger of his own life by keeping possession
thereof." As a result of this state of affairs, Burbage "was much disturbed and troubled in
his possession of the Theatre, and could not quietly and peaceably enjoy the same. And therefore
the players forsook the said Theatre, to his great loss."[74] In order to reimburse himself
in some measure for this loss Burbage retained £30 of the rental due to Alleyn. The act led
to a bitter quarrel with Alleyn, and figured conspicuously in the subsequent litigation that
came near overwhelming the Theatre.

[Footnote 74: See Wallace, op. cit., pp. 201, 239, 240, 242.]

In 1585 Burbage, having spent the stipulated £200 in repairing and rebuilding the tenements
on the premises, sought to renew the lease, according to the original agreement, for the extended
period of twenty-one years. On November 20, 1585, he engaged three skilled workmen to view
the buildings and estimate the sum he had disbursed in improvements. They signed a formal statement
to the effect that in their opinion at least £220 had been thus expended on the premises. Burbage
then "tendered unto the said Alleyn a new lease devised by his counsel, ready written and engrossed,
with labels and wax thereunto affixed, agreeable to the covenant." But Alleyn refused to sign
the document. He maintained that the new lease was not a verbatim copy of the old lease, that
£200 had not been expended on the buildings, and that Burbage was a bad tenant and owed him
rent. In reality, Alleyn wanted to extort a larger rental than £14 for the property, which
had greatly increased in value.

On July 18, 1586, Burbage engaged six men, all expert laborers, to view the buildings again
and estimate the cost of the improvements. They expressed the opinion in writing that Burbage
had expended at least £240 in developing the property.[75] Still Alleyn refused to sign an
extension of the lease. His conduct must have been very exasperating to the owner of the Theatre.
Cuthbert Burbage tells us that his father "did often in gentle manner solicit and require the
said Gyles Alleyn for making a new lease of the said premises according to the purporte and
effect of the said covenant." But invariably Alleyn found some excuse for delay.

[Footnote 75: Wallace, op. cit., pp. 229, 234, 228, 233.]

The death of Brayne, in August, 1586, led John Hide, who by reason of the defaulted mortgage
was legally the owner of the Theatre, to redouble his efforts to collect his debt. He "gave
it out in speech that he had set over and assigned the said lease and bonds to one George Clough,
his ... father-in-law (but in truth he did not so)," and "the said Clough, his father-in-law,
did go about to put the said defendant [Burbage] out of the Theatre, or at least did threaten
to put him out." As we have seen, there was a clause in the mortgage which prevented Hide from
ejecting Burbage;[76] yet Clough was able to make so much trouble, "divers and sundry times"
visiting the Theatre, that at last Burbage undertook to settle the debt out of the profits
of the playhouse. As Robert Myles deposed in 1592, Burbage allowed the widow of Brayne for
"a certain time to take and receive the one-half of the profits of the galleries of the said
Theatre ... then on a sudden he would not suffer her to receive any more of the profits there,
saying that he must take and receive all till he had paid the debts. And then she was constrained,
as his servant, to gather the money and to deliver it unto him."[77]

[Footnote 76: Wallace, op. cit., p. 55.]

[Footnote 77: Ibid., p. 105.]

For some reason, however, the debt was not settled, and Hide continued his futile demands.
Several times Burbage offered to pay the sum in full if the title of the Theatre were made
over to his son Cuthbert Burbage; and Brayne's widow made similar offers in an endeavor to
gain the entire property for herself. But Hide, who seems to have been an honest man, always
declared that since Burbage and Brayne "did jointly mortgage it unto him" he was honor-bound
to assign the property back to Burbage and the widow of Brayne jointly. So matters stood for
a while.

At last, however, in 1589, Hide declared that "since he had forborne his money so long, he
could do it no more, so as they that came first should have it of him." Thereupon Cuthbert
Burbage came bringing not only the money in hand, but also a letter from his master and patron,
Walter Cape, gentleman usher to the Lord High Treasurer, requesting Hide to make over the Theatre
to Cuthbert, and promising in return to assist Hide with the Lord Treasurer when occasion arose.
Under this pressure, Hide accepted full payment of his mortgage, and made over the title of
the property to Cuthbert Burbage. Thus Brayne's widow was legally excluded from any share in
the ownership of the Theatre. Myles deposed, in 1592, that henceforth Burbage "would not suffer
her to meddle in the premises, but thrust her out of all."

This led at once to a suit, in which Robert Myles acted for the widow. He received an order
from the Court of Chancery in her favor, and armed with this, and accompanied by two other
persons, he came on November 16, 1590, to Burbage's "dwelling house near the Theatre," called
to the door Cuthbert Burbage, and in "rude and exclamable sort" demanded "the moiety of the
said Theatre." James Burbage "being within the house, hearing a noise at the door, went to
the door, and there found his son, the said Cuthbert, and the said Myles speaking loud together."
Words were bandied, until finally Burbage, "dared by the same Myles with great threats and
words that he would do this and could do that," lost his temper, and threatened to beat Myles
off the ground.[78]

[Footnote 78: Wallace, op. cit., pp. 57, 60, 62.]

Next the widow, attended by Robert Myles and others, visited the home of the Burbages "to require
them to perform the said award" of the court. They were met by James Burbage's wife, who "charged
them to go out of her grounds, or else she would make her son break their knaves' heads." Aroused
by this noise, "James Burbage, her husband, looking out a window upon them, called the complainant
[Widow Brayne] murdering whore, and ... the others villaines, rascals, and knaves." And when
Mistress Brayne spoke of the order of the court, "he cryed unto her, 'Go, go. A cart, a cart
for you! I will obey no such order, nor I care not for any such orders, and therefore it were
best for you and your companions to be packing betimes, for if my son [Cuthbert] come he will
thump you hence!'" Just then Cuthbert did "come home, and in very hot sort bid them get thence,
or else he would set them forwards, saying 'I care for no such order. The Chancery shall not
give away what I have paid for.'" And so, after "great and horrible oathes" by James Burbage
and his son, the widow and her attendants "went their ways."[79]

[Footnote 79: Ibid., p. 121.]

Receiving thus no satisfaction from these visits to the home of James Burbage, the widow and
Robert Myles came several times to the Theatre, bearing the order of the court in their hands;
but each time they were railed upon and driven out. Finally, the widow, with her ever-faithful
adjutant Robert Myles, his son Ralph, and his business partner, Nicholas Bishop, went "to the
Theatre upon a play-day to stand at the door that goeth up to the galleries of the said Theatre
to take and receive for the use of the said Margaret half of the money that should be given
to come up into the said gallery." In the Theatre they were met by Richard Burbage, then about
nineteen years old, and his mother, who "fell upon the said Robert Myles and beat him with
a broom staff, calling him murdering knave." When Myles's partner, Bishop, ventured to protest
at this contemptuous treatment of the order of the court, "the said Richard Burbage," so Bishop
deposed, "scornfully and disdainfully playing with this deponent's nose, said that if he dealt
in the matter, he would beat him also, and did challenge the field of him at that time." One
of the actors then coming in, John Alleyn--brother of the immortal Edward Alleyn--"found the
foresaid Richard Burbage, the youngest son of the said James Burbage, there with a broom staff
in his hand; of whom when this deponent Alleyn asked what stir was there, he answered in laughing
phrase how they came for a moiety, 'But,' quod he (holding up the said broom staff) 'I have,
I think, delivered him a moiety with this, and sent them packing.'" Alleyn thereupon warned
the Burbages that Myles could bring an action of assault and battery against them. "'Tush,'
quod the father, 'no, I warrant you; but where my son hath now beat him hence, my sons, if
they will be ruled by me, shall at their next coming provide charged pistols, with powder and
hempseed, to shoot them in the legs.'"[80]

[Footnote 80: Wallace, op. cit., pp. 63, 97, 100, 101, 114.]

But if the Burbages could laugh at the efforts of Myles and the widow to secure a moiety of
the Theatre from Cuthbert, they were seriously troubled by the continued refusal of Gyles Alleyn
to renew the lease. James Burbage many times urged his landlord to fulfill the original agreement,
but in vain. At last, Alleyn, "according to his own will and discretion, did cause a draft
of a lease to be drawn, wherein were inserted many unreasonable covenants." The new conditions
imposed by Alleyn were: (1) that Burbage should pay a rental of £24 instead of £14 a year;
(2) that he should use the Theatre as a place for acting for only five years after the expiration
of the original twenty-one-year lease, and should then convert the building to other uses;
(3) that he should ultimately leave the building in the possession of Alleyn.[81] The first
and third conditions, though unjust, Burbage was willing to accept, but the second condition--that
he should cease to use the Theatre for plays--he "utterly refused" to consider.

[Footnote 81: See Wallace, op. cit., pp. 195, 212, 216, 250, 258, et al.]

Finally, perceiving that it was useless to deal further with Alleyn, he made plans to secure
a new playhouse in the district of Blackfriars, a district which, although within the city
walls, was not under the jurisdiction of the city authorities. He purchased there the old Blackfriars
refectory for £600, and then at great expense made the refectory into a playhouse. But certain
influential noblemen and others living near by protested against this, and the Privy Council
ordered that the building should not be used as a public playhouse. All this belongs mainly
to the history of the Second Blackfriars Playhouse, and for further details the reader is referred
to the chapter dealing with that theatre.

Shortly after the order of the Privy Council cited above, Burbage died, just two months before
the expiration of his lease from Alleyn; and the Theatre with all its troubles passed to his
son Cuthbert. By every means in his power Cuthbert sought to induce Alleyn to renew the lease:
"Your said subject was thereof possessed, and being so possessed, your said servant did often
require the said Alleyn and Sara his wife to make unto him the said new lease of the premises,
according to the agreement of the said indenture." Cuthbert's importunity in the matter is
clearly set forth in a deposition by Henry Johnson, one of Alleyn's tenants. It was Alleyn's
custom to come to London at each of the four pay terms of the year, and stop at the George
Inn in Shoreditch to receive his rents; and on such occasions Johnson often observed Cuthbert's
entreaties with Alleyn. In his deposition he says that he "knoweth that the said complainant
[Cuthbert Burbage] hath many times labored and entreated the defendant [Gyles Alleyn] to make
him a new lease of the premises in question, for this deponent sayeth that many times when
the defendant hath come up to London to receive his rents, he, this deponent, hath been with
him paying him certain rent; and then he hath seen the plaintiff with his landlord, paying
his rent likewise; and then, finding opportunity, the plaintiff would be intreating the defendant
to make him a new lease of the premises in question; and sayeth that it is at least three years
since [i.e., in 1597] he, this deponent, first heard the plaintiff labor and entreat the defendant
for a new lease."[82] Cuthbert tells us that Alleyn did not positively refuse to renew the
lease, "but for some causes, which he feigned, did defer the same from time to time, but yet
gave hope to your subject, and affirmed that he would make him such a lease."[83]

[Footnote 82: Wallace, op. cit., p. 246.]

[Footnote 83: Ibid., p. 184.]

Cuthbert's anxiety in this matter is explained by the fact that the old lease gave him the
right to tear down the Theatre and carry away the timber and other materials to his own use,
provided he did so before the expiration of the twenty-one years. Yet, relying on Alleyn's
promises to renew the lease, he "did forbear to pull downe and carry away the timber and stuff
employed for the said Theatre and playing-house at the end of the said first term of one and
twenty years." A failure to renew the lease would mean, of course, the loss of the building.

Alleyn, though deferring to sign a new lease, allowed Burbage to continue in possession of
the property at "the old rent of £14." Yet the Theatre seems not to have been used for plays
after the original lease expired.[84] The Lord Chamberlain's Company, which had been occupying
the Theatre, and of which Richard Burbage was the chief actor, had moved to the Curtain; and
the author of Skialetheia, printed in 1598, refers to the old playhouse as empty: "But see,
yonder, one, like the unfrequented Theatre, walks in dark silence and vast solitude."[85]

[Footnote 84: The lease expired on April 13, 1597; on July 28 the Privy Council closed all
playhouses until November. The references to the Theatre in The Remembrancia (see The Malone
Society's Collections, I, 78) do not necessarily imply that the building was then actually
used by the players.]

[Footnote 85: The same fact is revealed in the author's remark, "If my dispose persuade me
to a play, I'le to the Rose or Curtain," for at this time only the Chamberlain's Men and the
Admiral's Men were allowed to play.]

To Cuthbert Burbage such a state of affairs was intolerable, and on September 29, 1598, he
made a new appeal to Alleyn. Alleyn proffered a lease already drawn up, but Cuthbert would
not "accept thereof" because of the "very unreasonable covenants therein contained."[86]

[Footnote 86: Wallace, op. cit., pp. 216, 249.]

Shortly after this fruitless interview, or late in 1598, Gyles Alleyn resolved to take advantage
of the fact that Cuthbert Burbage had not removed the Theatre before the expiration of the
first twenty-one years. He contended that since Cuthbert had "suffered the same there to continue
till the expiration of the said term ... the right and interest of the said Theatre was both
in law and conscience absolutely vested" now in himself; accordingly he planned "to pull down
the same, and to convert the wood and timber thereof to some better use for the benefit" of
himself.[87]

[Footnote 87: Ibid., pp. 277, 288.]

But, unfortunately for Alleyn, Cuthbert Burbage "got intelligence" of this purpose, and at
once set himself to the task of saving his property. He and his brother Richard, the great
actor, took into their confidence the chief members of the Lord Chamberlain's Company, then
performing at the Curtain Playhouse, namely William Shakespeare, John Heminges, Augustine Phillips,
Thomas Pope, and William Kempe. These men agreed to form with the Burbages a syndicate to finance
the erection of a new playhouse. The two Burbages agreed to bear one-half the expense, including
the timber and other materials of the old Theatre, and the five actors promised to supply the
other half. Together they leased a suitable plot of land on the Bankside near Henslowe's Rose,
the lease dating from December 25, 1598. These details having been arranged, it remained only
for the Burbages to save their building from the covetousness of Alleyn.

On the night of December 28, 1598,[88] Alleyn being absent in the country, Cuthbert Burbage,
his brother Richard, his friend William Smith, "of Waltham Cross, in the County of Hartford,
gentleman," Peter Street, "cheefe carpenter," and twelve others described as "laborers such
as wrought for wages," gathered at the Theatre and began to tear down the building. We learn
that the widow of James Burbage "was there, and did see the doing thereof, and liked well of
it";[89] and we may suspect that at some time during the day Shakespeare and the other actors
were present as interested spectators.

[Footnote 88: The date, January 20, 1599, seems to be an error.]

[Footnote 89: Wallace, op. cit., p. 238.]

The episode is thus vividly described by the indignant Gyles Allen:

     The said Cuthbert Burbage, having intelligence of your
     subject's purpose herein, and unlawfully combining and
     confederating himself with the said Richard Burbage and one
     Peter Street, William Smith, and diverse other persons to
     the number of twelve, to your subject unknown, did about
     the eight and twentieth day of December, in the one and
     fortieth year of your highness reign, and sithence your
     highness last and general pardon, by the confederacy
     aforesaid, riotously assembled themselves together, and then
     and there armed themselves with diverse and many unlawful
     and offensive weapons, as namely swords, daggers, bills,
     axes, and such like, and so armed did then repair unto the
     said Theatre, and then and there armed as aforesaid, in very
     riotous, outrageous, and forceable manner, and contrary to
     the laws of your highness realm, attempted to pull down the
     said Theatre. Whereupon, diverse of your subjects, servants
     and farmers, then going about in peaceable manner to procure
     them to desist from that unlawful enterprise, they, the said
     riotous persons aforesaid, notwithstanding procured then
     therein with great violence, not only then and there
     forcibly and riotously resisting your subjects, servants,
     and farmers, but also then and there pulling, breaking, and
     throwing down the said Theatre in very outrageous, violent,
     and riotous sort.[90]

[Footnote 90: Wallace, op. cit., pp. 278-79. This document was discovered by J.O. Halliwell-Phillipps,
who printed extracts in his Outlines. See also Ordish, Early London Theatres, pp. 75-76.]

The workmen, under the expert direction of Peter Street, carried the timber and other materials
of the old Theatre to the tract of land on the Bankside recently leased by the new syndicate--as
Gyles Alleyn puts it, "did then also in most forcible and riotous manner take and carry away
from thence all the wood and timber thereof unto the Bankside, in the Parish of St. Mary Overies,
and there erected a new playhouse with the said timber and wood."

The playhouse thus erected was, of course, an entirely new structure. Nearly a quarter of a
century had elapsed since James Burbage designed the old Theatre, during which time a great
development had taken place both in histrionic art and in play writing; and, no doubt, many
improvements were possible in the stage and in the auditorium to provide better facilities
for the actors and greater comfort for the spectators. In designing such improvements the architect
had the advice and help of the actors, including Shakespeare; and he succeeded in producing
a playhouse that was a model of excellence. The name selected by the syndicate for their new
building was "The Globe." For further details as to its construction, and for its subsequent
history, the reader is referred to the chapter dealing with that building.

When Gyles Alleyn learned that the Burbages had demolished the Theatre and removed the timber
to the Bankside, he was deeply incensed, not only at the loss of the building, but also, no
doubt, at being completely outwitted. At once he instituted suit against Cuthbert Burbage;
but he was so intemperate in his language and so reckless in his charges that he weakened his
case. The suit dragged for a few years, was in part referred to Francis Bacon, and finally
in the summer of 1601 was dismissed. Thus the history of the first London playhouse, which
is chiefly the history of quarrels and litigation, came to a close.

It is not possible now to indicate exactly the stay of the different troupes at the Theatre;
the evidence is scattered and incomplete, and the inferences to be drawn are often uncertain.

When the building was opened in 1576, it was, no doubt, occupied by the Earl of Leicester's
troupe, of which Burbage was the manager, and for which, presumably, the structure had been
designed. Yet other troupes of players may also have been allowed to use the building--when
Leicester's Men were touring the provinces, or, possibly, on days when Leicester's Men did
not act. This arrangement lasted about six years.

In 1582 the use of the Theatre was interrupted by the interference of Peckham. For a long time
the actors "could not enjoy the premises," and Burbage was forced to keep Peckham's servants
out of the building with an armed guard night and day. As a result of this state of affairs,
Leicester's troupe was dissolved; "many of the players," we are told, were driven away, and
the rest "forsook the said Theatre." The last notice of these famous players is a record of
their performance at Court on February 10, 1583.

Shortly after this, in March, 1583, Tilney, the Master of the Revels, organized under royal
patronage a new company called the Queen's Men. For this purpose he selected twelve of the
best actors of the realm, including some of the members of Leicester's company.[91] The two
best-known actors in the new organization were the Queen's favorite comedian, Richard Tarleton,
the immortal "Lord of Mirth," and John Lanham, the leader and apparently the manager of the
troupe. James Burbage, who may by this time, if not before, have retired from acting, was not
included.

[Footnote 91: For a list of the Queen's Men see Wallace, op. cit., p. 11.]

The newly organized Queen's Men in all probability occupied the Theatre which had been left
vacant by the dissolution of Leicester's company. Mr. Wallace denies this, mainly on the evidence
of a permit issued by the Lord Mayor, November 28, 1583, granting the Queen's Men the privilege
of acting "at the sign of the Bull [Inn] in Bishopgate Street, and the sign of the Bell [Inn]
in Gracious Street, and nowhere else within this city." But this permit, I think, lends scant
support to Mr. Wallace's contention. The Lord Mayor had no authority to issue a license for
the Queen's Men to play at the Theatre, for that structure was outside the jurisdiction of
the city. The Privy Council itself, no doubt, had issued such a general license when the company
was organized under royal patronage.[92] And now, ten months later, on November 26, 1583, the
Council sends to the Lord Mayor a request "that Her Majesty's players may be suffered to play
... within the city and liberties between this and shrovetide next"[93]--in other words, during
the winter season when access to the Theatre was difficult. It was customary for troupes to
seek permission to act within the city during the winter months.[94] Thus the Queen's Men,
in a petition written probably in the autumn of the following year, 1584, requested the Privy
Council to dispatch "favorable letters unto the Lord Mayor of London to permit us to exercise
within the city," and the Lord Mayor refused, with the significant remark that "if in winter
... the foulness of season do hinder the passage into the fields to play, the remedy is ill
conceived to bring them into London."[95] Obviously the Queen's Men were seeking permission
to play in the city only during the cold winter months; during the balmy spring, summer, and
autumn months--for actors the best season of the year--they occupied their commodious playhouse
in "the fields."

[Footnote 92: Such a license would include also permission to act in the provinces. This latter
was soon needed, for shortly after their organization the Queen's Men were driven by the plague
to tour the provinces. They were in Cambridge on July 9, and probably returned to London shortly
after. See The Malone Society's Collections, I, 67.]

[Footnote 95: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 170, 172.]

That this playhouse for a time, at least, was the Theatre is indicated by several bits of evidence.
Thus the author of Martin's Month's Mind (1589) speaks of "twittle-twattles that I had learned
in ale-houses and at the Theatre of Lanham and his fellows." Again, Nash, in Pierce Penniless
(1592), writes: "Tarleton at the Theatre made jests of him"; Harrington, in The Metamorphosis
of Ajax (1596): "Which word was after admitted into the Theatre with great applause, by the
mouth of Master Tarleton"; and the author of Tarlton's Newes out of Purgatory (c. 1589) represents
Tarleton as connected with the Theatre. Now, unless Lanham, Tarleton, and their "fellows" usually
or sometimes acted at the Theatre, it is hard to understand these and other similar passages.

The following episode tends to prove the same thing. On June 18, 1584, William Fleetwood, Recorder,
wrote to Lord Burghley:[96]

     Right honorable and my very good lord. Upon Whitsunday there
     was a very good sermon preached at the new churchyard near
     Bethelem, whereat my Lord Mayor was with his brethren; and
     by reason no plays were the same day, all the city was
     quiet. Upon Monday I was at the Court.... That night I
     returned to London and found all the wards full of watchers;
     the cause thereof was for that very near the Theatre or
     Curtain, at the time of the plays, there lay a prentice
     sleeping upon the grass; and one Challes, at Grostock, did
     turn upon the toe upon the belly of the same prentice.
     Whereupon the apprentice start up.

[Footnote 96: The letter is printed in full in The Malone Society's Collections, I, 164.]

In the altercation that followed, Challes remarked that "prentices were but the scum of the
world." This led to a general rising of apprentices, and much disorder throughout the city.
Fleetwood records the upshot thus:

     Upon Sunday my Lord [Mayor] sent two aldermen to the court
     for the suppressing and pulling down of the Theatre and
     Curtain. All the Lords [of the Privy Council] agreed
     thereunto saving my Lord Chamberlain and Mr.
     Vice-Chamberlain. But we obtained a letter to suppress them
     all. Upon the same night I sent for the Queen's Players [at
     the Theatre?] and my Lord Arundel's Players [at the
     Curtain?] and they all willingly obeyed the Lords's letters.
     The chiefest of Her Highness's Players advised me to send
     for the owner of the Theatre [James Burbage[97]], who was a
     stubborn fellow, and to bind him. I did so. He sent me word
     he was my Lord of Hundson's man, and that he would not come
     at me; but he would in the morning ride to my lord.

[Footnote 97: This could not have been Hide, as usually stated. Hide had nothing to do with
the management of the Theatre, and was not "my Lord of Hunsdon's man." Hide's connection with
the Theatre as sketched in this chapter shows the absurdity of such an interpretation of the
document.]

The natural inference from all this is that the Queen's Men and Lord Arundel's Men were then
playing outside the city where they could be controlled only by "the Lords's Letters"; that
the Queen's Men were occupying the Theatre, and that James Burbage was (as we know) not a member
of that company, but merely stood to them in the relation of "owner of the Theatre."

What Burbage meant by calling himself "my Lord of Hunsdon's man" is not clear. Mr. Wallace
contends that when Leicester's Men were dissolved, Burbage organized "around the remnants of
Leicester's Company" a troupe under the patronage of Lord Hunsdon, and that this troupe, and
not the Queen's Men, occupied the Theatre thereafter.[98] But we hear of Hunsdon's Men at Ludlow
in July, 1582; and we find them presenting a play at Court on December 27, 1582. Since Leicester's
troupe is recorded as acting at Court as late as February 10, 1583, it seems unlikely that
Mr. Wallace's theory as to the origin of Hunsdon's Men is true. It may be, however, that after
the dissolution of Leicester's Men, Burbage associated himself with Hunsdon's Men, and it may
be that he allowed that relatively unimportant company to occupy the Theatre for a short time.
Hunsdon's Men seem to have been mainly a traveling troupe; Mr. Murray states that notices of
them "occur frequently in the provinces," but we hear almost nothing of them in London. Indeed,
at the time of the trouble described by Fleetwood, Hunsdon's Men were in Bath.[99] If Burbage
was a member of the troupe, he certainly did not accompany them on their extended tours; and
when they played in London, if they used the Theatre, they must have used it jointly with the
Queen's Men.

[Footnote 98: Wallace, op. cit., p. 11.]

[Footnote 99: Murray, English Dramatic Companies, I, 321.]

Late in 1585 the Theatre was affiliated with the adjacent Curtain. Burbage and Brayne made
an agreement with the proprietor of that playhouse whereby the Curtain might be used "as an
easore" [easer?] to the Theatre, and "the profits of the said two playhouses might for seven
years space be in divident between them." This agreement, we know, was carried out, but whether
it led to an exchange of companies, or what effect it had upon the players, we cannot say.
Possibly to this period of joint management may be assigned the witticism of Dick Tarleton
recorded as having been uttered "at the Curtain" where the Queen's Men were then playing.[100]
It may even be that as one result of the affiliation of the two houses the Queen's Men were
transferred to the Curtain.

[Footnote 100: Tarlton's Jests, ed. by J.O. Halliwell, p. 16. Tarleton died in 1588.]

In 1590, as we learn from the deposition of John Alleyn, the Theatre was being used by the
Admiral's Men.[101] This excellent company had been formed early in 1589 by the separation
of certain leading players from Worcester's Men, and it had probably occupied the Theatre since
its organization. Its star actor, Edward Alleyn, was then at the height of his powers, and
was producing with great success Marlowe's splendid plays. We may suppose that the following
passage refers to the performance of the Admiral's Men at the Theatre:

     He had a head of hair like one of my devils in Dr.
     Faustus, when the old Theatre crackt and frightened the
     audience.[102]

[Footnote 101: Wallace, op. cit., pp. 101, 126.]

[Footnote 102: The Black Booke, 1604.]

Late in 1590 the Admiral's Men seem to have been on bad terms with Burbage,[103] and when John
Alleyn made his deposition, February 6, 1592, they had certainly left the Theatre. Mr. Greg,
from entirely different evidence, has concluded that they were dispersed in 1591,[104] and
this conclusion is borne out by the legal document cited above.

[Footnote 103: Wallace, op. cit., p. 101.]

[Footnote 104: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, II, 83. The Admiral's Men were reorganized in 1594,
and occupied the Rose under Henslowe's management.]

The next company that we can definitely associate with the Theatre was the famous Lord Chamberlain's
Men. On April 16, 1594, Lord Strange, the Earl of Derby, died, and the chief members of his
troupe--William Shakespeare, Richard Burbage, John Heminges, William Kempe, Thomas Pope, George
Bryan, and Augustine Phillips--organized a new company under the patronage of the Lord Chamberlain.
For ten days, in June, 1594, they acted at Newington Butts under the management of Philip Henslowe,
then went, probably at once, to the Theatre, which they made their home until the Burbage lease
of the property expired in the spring of 1597. Here, among other famous plays, they produced
the original Hamlet, thus referred to by Lodge in Wit's Miserie, 1596:

     He looks as pale as the visard of the ghost which cries so
     miserably at the Theatre, like an oyster-wife, "Hamlet,
     revenge!"

And here, too, they presented all of Shakespeare's early masterpieces.

Their connection with the building ceased in 1597 at the expiration of the Burbage lease; but
their association with the proprietors of the Theatre was permanent. Their subsequent history,
as also the history of the Burbage brothers, will be found in the chapters dealing with the
Globe and the Second Blackfriars.[105]

[Footnote 105: For other but unimportant references to the Theatre see The Malone Society's
Collections, vol. I: disorder at, October, 1577, p. 153; disorder at, on Sunday, April, 1580,
p. 46; fencing allowed at, July, 1582, p. 57; fencing forbidden at, May, 1583, p. 62; to be
closed during infection, May, 1583, p. 63; complaint against, by the Lord Mayor, September,
1594, p. 76. And see Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 363, for a special performance there
by a "virgin," February 22, 1582.]

CHAPTER IV

THE CURTAIN

Although James Burbage was, as his son asserted, "the first builder of playhouses," a second
public playhouse followed hard on the Theatre, probably within twelve months. It was erected
a short distance to the south of the Theatre,--that is, nearer the city,--and, like that building,
it adjoined Finsbury Field.[106] To the two playhouses the audiences came trooping over the
meadows, in "great multidudes," the Lord Mayor tells us; and the author of Tarlton's Newes
out of Purgatory (c. 1589) describes their return to London thus: "With that I waked, and saw
such concourse of people through the fields that I knew the play was done."[107]

[Footnote 106: The site is probably marked by Curtain Court in Chasserau's survey of 1745,
reproduced on page 79.]

[Footnote 107: Ed. by J.O. Halliwell, for The Shakespeare Society (1844), p. 105.]

The new playhouse derived its name from the Curtain estate, on which it was erected.[108] This
estate was formerly the property of the Priory of Holywell, and was described in 1538 as "scituata
et existentia extra portas ejusdem nuper monasterii prope pasturam dicte nuper Priorisse, vocatam
the Curteine."[109] Why it was so called is not clear. The name may have been derived from
some previous owner of the property; it may, as Collier thought, have come from some early
association with the walls (curtains) or defenses of the city; or, it may have come, as Tomlins
suggests, from the mediæval Latin cortina, meaning a court, a close, a farm enclosure.[110]
Whatever its origin--the last explanation seems the most plausible--the interesting point is
that it had no connection whatever with a stage curtain.

[Footnote 108: The Rose and the Red Bull derived their names in a similar way from the estates
on which they were erected.]

[Footnote 109: Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 364.]

[Footnote 110: Tomlins, Origin of the Curtain Theatre, and Mistakes Regarding It, in The Shakespeare
Society's Papers (1844), p. 29.]

The building was probably opened to the London public in the summer or autumn of 1577. This
is incorrect; White did preach a sermon at Paul's Cross on December 9, but not the sermon from
which this quotation is drawn.]

[Footnote 112: Ed. by J.P. Collier, for The Shakespeare Society (1843), p. 85.]

Like the Theatre, the Curtain was a peculiarly shaped building, specially designed for acting;
"those playhouses that are erected and built only for such purposes ... namely the Curtain
and the Theatre,"[113] writes the Privy Council; and the German traveler, Samuel Kiechel, who
visited London in 1585, describes them as "sonderbare" structures. They are usually mentioned
together, and in such a way as to suggest similarity of shape as well as of purpose. We may,
I think, reasonably suppose that the Curtain was in all essential details a copy of Burbage's
Theatre.[114] Presumably, then, it was polygonal (or circular) in shape,[115] was constructed
of timber, and was finished on the outside with lime and plaster. The interior, as the evidence
already cited in the chapter on the Theatre shows, consisted of three galleries surrounding
an open yard. There was a platform projecting into the middle of the yard, with dressing-rooms
at the rear, "heavens" overhead, and a flagpole rising above the "heavens." That some sign
was displayed in front of the door is likely. Malone writes: "The original sign hung out at
this playhouse (as Mr. Steevens has observed) was the painting of a curtain striped."[116]
Aubrey records that Ben Jonson "acted and wrote, but both ill, at the Green Curtain, a kind
of nursery or obscure playhouse somewhere in the suburbs, I think towards Shoreditch or Clerkenwell."[117]
By "at the Green Curtain" Aubrey means, of course, "at the sign of the Green Curtain"; but
the evidence of Steevens and of Aubrey is too vague and uncertain to warrant any definite conclusions.

[Footnote 113: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXVII, 313.]

[Footnote 114: It seems, however, to have been smaller than the Theatre.]

[Footnote 115: Johannes de Witt describes the Theatre and the Curtain along with the Swan and
the Rose as "amphitheatra" (see page 167). It is quite possible that Shakespeare refers to
the Curtain in the Prologue to Henry V as "this wooden O," though the reference may be to the
Globe.]

[Footnote 116: Malone, Variorum, III, 54; cf. also Ellis, The Parish of St. Leonard.]

[Footnote 117: Did Steevens base his statement on this passage in Aubrey?]

Of the early history of the Curtain we know little, mainly because it was not, like certain
other playhouses, the subject of extensive litigation. We do not even know who planned and
built it. The first evidence of its ownership appears fifteen years after its erection, in
some legal documents connected with the Theatre.[118] In July, 1592, Henry Lanman, described
as "of London, gentleman, of the age of 54 years," deposed: "That true it is about 7 years
now shall be this next winter, they, the said Burbage and Brayne, having the profits of plays
made at the Theatre, and this deponent having the profits of the plays done at the house called
the Curtain near to the same, the said Burbage and Brayne, taking the Curtain as an esore[119]
to their playhouse, did of their own motion move this deponent that he would agree that the
profits of the said two playhouses might for seven years space be in divident between them."[120]

[Footnote 118: Brayne v. Burbage, 1592, printed in full by Wallace, The First London Theatre,
pp. 109-52. See especially pp. 126, 148.]

[Footnote 119: Easer?]

[Footnote 120: Wallace, op. cit., p. 148; cf. p. 126.]

From this statement it is evident that Henry Lanman was the sole proprietor of the Curtain
as far back as 1585, and the presumption is that his proprietorship was of still earlier date.
This presumption is strengthened by the fact that in a sale of the Curtain estate early in
1582, he is specifically mentioned as having a tenure of an "edifice or building" erected in
the Curtain Close, that is, that section of the estate next to the Field, on which the playhouse
was built.[121] Since Lanman is not mentioned as having any other property on the estate, the
"edifice or building" referred to was probably the playhouse. The document gives no indication
as to how long he had held possession of the "edifice," but the date of sale, March, 1582,
carries us back to within four years of the erection of the Curtain, and it seems reasonable
to suppose, though of course we cannot be sure, that Lanman had been proprietor of the building
from the very beginning.[122]

[Footnote 121: Tomlins, op. cit., pp. 29-31.]

[Footnote 122: Of this Henry Lanman we know nothing beyond the facts here revealed. Possibly
he was a brother of the distinguished actor John Lanman (the name is variously spelled Lanman,
Laneman, Lenmann, Laneham, Laynman, Lanham), one of the chief members of Leicester's troupe,
and one of the twelve men selected in 1583 to form the Queen's Men. But speculation of this
sort is vain. It is to be hoped that in the future some student will investigate the life of
this obscure theatrical manager, and trace his connection with the early history of the drama.]

Certain records of the sale of the Curtain estate shortly before and shortly after the erection
of the playhouse are preserved, but these throw very little light upon the playhouse itself.
We learn that on February 20, 1567, Lord Mountjoy and his wife sold the estate to Maurice Longe,
clothworker, and his son William Longe, for the sum of £60; and that on August 23, 1571, Maurice
Longe and his wife sold it to the then Lord Mayor, Sir William Allyn, for the sum of £200.
In both documents the property is described in the same words: "All that house, tenement or
lodge commonly called the Curtain, and all that parcel of ground and close, walled and enclosed
with a brick wall on the west and north parts, called also the Curtain Close." The lodge here
referred to, generally known as "Curtain House," was on, or very near, Holywell Lane;[123]
the playhouse, as already stated, was erected in the close near the Field.[124]

[Footnote 123: Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 365.]

[Footnote 124: The Privy Council on March 10, 1601, refers to it as "The Curtaine in Moorefeildes";
in ancient times, says Stow, Moorefields extended to Holywell. See Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines,
I, 364.]

How long Sir William Allyn held the property, or why it reverted to the Longe family, we do
not know. But on March 18, 1582, we find William Longe, the son of "Maurice Longe, citizen
and clothworker, of London, deceased," selling the same property, described in the same words,
to one "Thomas Harberte, citizen and girdler, of London." In the meantime, of course, the playhouse
had been erected, but no clear or direct mention of the building is made in the deed of sale.
Possibly it was included in the conventionally worded phrase: "and all and singular other messuages,
tenements, edifices, and buildings, with all and singular their appurtenances, erected and
builded upon the said close called the Curtain."[125] Among the persons named as holding tenures
of the above-mentioned "edifices and buildings" in the close was Henry Lanman. It seems not
improbable, therefore, that the Curtain, like the Theatre, was erected on leased ground.

[Footnote 125: Tomlins, op. cit., p. 31.]

It is impossible to give a connected history of the Curtain. Most of the references to it that
we now possess are invectives in early puritanical writings, or bare mention, along with other
playhouses, in letters or ordinances of the Privy Council and the Lord Mayor. Such references
as these do not much help us in determining what companies successively occupied the building,
or what varying fortunes marked its ownership and management. Yet a few scattered facts have
sifted down to us, and these I have arranged in chronological order.

On the afternoon of April 6, 1580, an earthquake, especially severe in Holywell, shook the
building during the performance of a play, and greatly frightened the audience. Munday says
merely: "at the playhouses the people came running forth, surprised with great astonishment";[126]
but Stubbes, the Puritan, who saw in the event a "fearful judgment of God," writes with fervor:
"The like judgment almost did the Lord show unto them a little before, being assembled at their
theatres to see their bawdy interludes and other trumperies practised, for He caused the earth
mightily to shake and quaver, as though all would have fallen down; whereat the people, sore
amazed, some leapt down from the top of the turrets, pinnacles, and towers where they stood,
to the ground, whereof some had their legs broke, some their arms, some their backs, some hurt
one where, some another, and many score crushed and bruised."[127]

[Footnote 126: View of Sundry Examples, 1580.]

[Footnote 127: The Anatomy of Abuses, ed. F.J. Furnivall, New Shakspere Society, p. 180. For
other descriptions of this earthquake see Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 369.]

The disturbance at the Theatre and the Curtain in 1584, when one Challes "did turn upon the
toe upon the belly of" an apprentice "sleeping upon the grass" in the Field near by, has been
mentioned in the preceding chapter. If the interpretation of the facts there given is correct,
Lord Arundel's Players were then occupying the Curtain.

In the winter of 1585 Lanman entered into his seven years' agreement with Burbage and Brayne
by which the Theatre and the Curtain were placed under one management, and the profits shared
"in divident between them." This agreement was faithfully kept by both parties, but there is
no evidence that after the expiration of the seven years, in the winter of 1592, the affiliation
was continued. What effect the arrangement had upon the companies of players occupying the
two theatres we cannot now determine. To this period, however, I would assign the appearance
of the Queen's Men at the Curtain.[128]

[Footnote 128: Tarlton's Jests, ed. by J.O. Halliwell for the Shakespeare Society (1844), p.
16. For a discussion see the preceding chapter on the Theatre, p. 72.]

On July 28, 1597, as a result of the performance of Thomas Nashe's The Isle of Dogs, by Pembroke's
Men at the Swan,[129] the Privy Council ordered the plucking down of "the Curtain and the Theatre."[130]
The order, however, was not carried out, and in October plays were allowed again as before.

[Footnote 129: For details see the chapter on the Swan.]

[Footnote 130: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXVII, 313.]

At this time the Lord Chamberlain's men were at the Curtain, having recently moved thither
in consequence of the difficulties Cuthbert Burbage was having with Gyles Alleyn over the Theatre
property. During the stay of the Chamberlain's Company, which numbered among its members William
Shakespeare, Richard Burbage, William Kempe (who had succeeded Tarleton in popular favor as
a clown), John Heminges, Thomas Pope, and Augustine Phillips, the playhouse probably attained
its greatest distinction. Both Shakespeare and Jonson wrote plays for the troupe; Romeo and
Juliet, we are told, "won Curtain plaudities," as no doubt did many other of Shakespeare's
early masterpieces; and Jonson's Every Man in His Humour created such enthusiasm here on its
first performance as to make its author famous.[131]

[Footnote 131: Marston, The Scourge of Villainy (1598); Bullen, The Works of John Marston,
III, 372.]

In the summer of 1599 the Chamberlain's Men moved into their splendid new home, the Globe,
on the Bankside, and the Curtain thus abandoned fell on hard times. Perhaps it was let occasionally
to traveling troupes; in Jeaffreson's Middlesex County Records, under the date of March 11,
1600, is a notice of the arrest of one William Haukins "charged with a purse taken at a play
at the Curtain." But shortly after, in April, 1600, when Henslowe and Alleyn began to erect
their splendid new Fortune Playhouse, they were able to give the impression to Tilney, the
Master of the Revels, and to the Privy Council, that the Curtain was to be torn down. Thus
in the Council's warrant for the building of the Fortune, dated April 8, 1600, we read that
"another house is [to be] pulled down instead of it";[132] and when the Puritans later made
vigorous protests against the erection of the Fortune, the Council defended itself by stating
that "their Lordships have been informed by Edmund Tilney, Esquire, Her Majesty's servant,
and Master of the Revels, that the house now in hand to be built by the said Edward Alleyn
is not intended to increase the number of the playhouses, but to be instead of another, namely
the Curtain, which is either to be ruined and plucked down, or to be put to some other good
use."[133]

[Footnote 132: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 52.]

[Footnote 133: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 82.]

All this talk of the Curtain's being plucked down or devoted to other uses suggests a contemplated
change in the ownership or management of the building. We do not know when Lanman died (in
1592 he described himself as fifty-four years of age),[134] but we do know that at some date
prior to 1603 the Curtain had passed into the hands of a syndicate. When this syndicate was
organized, or who constituted its members, we cannot say. Thomas Pope, in his will, dated July
22, 1603, mentions his share "of, in, and to all that playhouse, with the appurtenances, called
the Curtain";[135] and John Underwood, in his will, dated October 4, 1624, mentions his "part
or share ... in the said playhouses called the Blackfriars, the Globe on the Bankside, and
the Curtain."[136] It may be significant that both Pope and Underwood were sharers also in
the Globe. Since, however, further information is wanting, it is useless to speculate. We can
only say that at some time after the period of Lanman's sole proprietorship, the Curtain passed
into the hands of a group of sharers; and that after a discussion in 1600 of demolishing the
building or devoting it to other uses, it entered upon a long and successful career.

[Footnote 134: Wallace, op. cit., p. 148.]

[Footnote 135: J.P. Collier, Lives of the Original Actors in Shakespeare's Plays, p. 127. In
exactly the same words Pope disposed of his share in the Globe.]

[Footnote 136: Ibid., p. 230.]

On May 10, 1601, "the actors at the Curtain"[137] gave serious offense by representing on the
stage persons "of good desert and quality, that are yet alive, under obscure manner, but yet
in such sort as all the hearers may take notice both of the matter and the persons that are
meant thereby." The Privy Council ordered the Justices of the Peace to examine into the case
and to punish the offenders.[138]

[Footnote 137: Possibly Derby's Men.]

[Footnote 138: See Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXXI, 346.]

Early in 1604 a draft of a royal patent for Queen Anne's Players--who had hitherto been under
the patronage of Worcester[139]--gives those players permission to act "within their now usual
houses, called the Curtain, and the Boar's Head."[140] On April 9, 1604, the Privy Council
authorized the three companies of players that had been taken under royal patronage "to exercise
their plays in their several and usual houses for that purpose, and no other, viz., the Globe,
scituate in Maiden Lane on the Bankside in the County of Surrey, the Fortune in Golding Lane,
and the Curtain in Holywell."[141] The King's Men (the Burbage-Shakespeare troupe) occupied
the Globe; Prince Henry's Men (the Henslowe-Alleyn troupe), the Fortune; and Queen Anne's Men,
the Curtain.

[Footnote 139: The company was formed by an amalgamation of Oxford's and Worcester's Men in
1602. See The Malone Society's Collections, I, 85.]

[Footnote 140: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 266.]

[Footnote 141: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 61; Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXXII, 511.]

But the Queen's Men were probably dissatisfied with the Curtain. It was small and antiquated,
and it must have suffered by comparison with the more splendid Globe and Fortune. So the Queen's
players had built for themselves a new and larger playhouse, called "The Red Bull." This was
probably ready for occupancy in 1605, yet it is impossible to say exactly when the Queen's
Men left the Curtain; their patent of April 15, 1609, gives them permission to act "within
their now usual houses called the Red Bull, in Clerkenwell, and the Curtain in Holywell."[142]
It may be that they retained control of the Curtain in order to prevent competition.

[Footnote 142: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 270.]

What company occupied the Curtain after Queen Anne's Men finally surrendered it is not clear.
Mr. Murray is of the opinion that Prince Charles's Men moved into the Curtain "about December,
1609, or early in 1610."[143]

[Footnote 143: English Dramatic Companies, I, 230.]

In 1613 "a company of young men" acted The Hector of Germany "at the Red Bull and at the Curtain."
Such plays, however, written and acted by amateurs, were not uncommon, and no significance
can be attached to the event.

In 1622, as we learn from the Herbert Manuscripts, the Curtain was being occupied by Prince
Charles's Servants.[144] In the same year the author of Vox Graculi, or The Jack Daw's Prognostication
for 1623, refers to it thus: "If company come current to the Bull and Curtain, there will be
more money gathered in one afternoon than will be given to Kingsland Spittle in a whole month;
also, if at this time about the hours of four and five it wax cloudy and then rain downright,
they shall sit dryer in the galleries than those who are the understanding men in the yard."

[Footnote 144: Malone, Variorum, III, 59; cf. Chalmers's Supplemental Apology, p. 213, note
y. Murray gives the date incorrectly as 1623.]

Prince Charles's Men did not remain long at the Curtain. At some date between June 10 and August
19, 1623, they moved to the larger and more handsome Red Bull.[145] After this, so far as I
can discover, there is no evidence to connect the playhouse with dramatic performances. Malone,
who presumably bases his statements on the now lost records of Herbert, says that shortly after
the accession of King Charles I it "seems to have been used only by prize-fighters."[146]

[Footnote 145: Murray, English Dramatic Companies, I, 237, note 1.]

[Footnote 146: Malone, Variorum, III, 54, note 2.]

The last mention of the Curtain is found in the Middlesex County Records under the date February
21, 1627.[147] It is merely a passing reference to "the common shoare near the Curtain playhouse,"
yet it is significant as indicating that the building was then still standing. What ultimately
became of it we do not know. For a time, however, its memory survived in Curtain Court (see
page 79), and to-day its fame is perpetuated in Curtain Road.

[Footnote 147: See Jeaffreson, Middlesex County Records, III, 164, from which the notice was
quoted by Ordish, Early London Theatres, p. 106.]

CHAPTER V

THE FIRST BLACKFRIARS

The choir boys of the Chapel Royal, of Windsor, and of Paul's were all engaged in presenting
dramatic entertainments before Queen Elizabeth. Each organization expected to be called upon
one or more times a year--at Christmas, New Year's, and other like occasions--to furnish recreation
to Her Majesty; and in return for its efforts each received a liberal "reward" in money. Richard
Farrant, Master of the Windsor Chapel, was especially active in devising plays for the Queen's
entertainment. But having a large family, he was poor in spite of his regular salary and the
occasional "rewards" he received for the performances of his Boys at Court; and doubtless he
often cast about in his mind for some way in which to increase his meagre income.

In the spring of 1576 James Burbage, having conceived the idea of a building devoted solely
to plays, had leased a plot of ground for the purpose, and had begun the erection of the Theatre.
By the autumn, no doubt, the building was nearing completion, if, indeed, it was not actually
open to the public; and the experiment, we may suppose, was exciting much interest in the dramatic
circles of London. It seems to have set Farrant to thinking. The professional actors, he observed,
had one important advantage over the child actors: not only could they present their plays
before the Queen and receive the usual court reward, but in addition they could present their
plays before the public and thus reap a second and richer harvest. Since the child actors had,
as a rule, more excellent plays than the professional troupes, and were better equipped with
properties and costumes, and since they expended just as much energy in devising plays and
in memorizing and rehearsing their parts, Farrant saw no reason why they, too, should not be
allowed to perform before the public. This, he thought, might be done under the guise of rehearsals
for the Court. Possibly the Queen might even wink at regular performances before the general
public when she understood that this would train the Boys to be more skilful actors, would
provide Her Majesty with more numerous and possibly more excellent plays, and would enable
the Master and his assistants to live in greater comfort without affecting the royal purse.

For Farrant to build a playhouse specifically for the use of the Children was out of the question.
In the first place, it would be too conspicuously a capitalization of the royal choristers
for private gain; and in the second place, it would be far too hazardous a business venture
for so poor a man as he to undertake. The more sensible thing for him to do was to rent somewhere
a large hall which could at small expense be converted into a place suitable for training the
Children in their plays, and for the entertainment of select--possibly at first invited--audiences.
The performances, of course, were not to be heralded by a trumpet-and-drum procession through
the street, by the flying of a flag, and by such-like vulgar advertising as of a public show;
instead, they were to be quiet, presumably "private," and were to attract only noblemen and
those citizens of the better class who were interested in the drama.[148]

[Footnote 148: From this notion of privacy, I take it, arose the term "private" theatre as
distinguished from "common" or "public" theatre. The interpretation of the term suggested by
Mr. W.J. Lawrence, and approved by Mr. William Archer, namely, that it was a legal device to
escape the city ordinance of 1574, cannot be accepted. The city had no jurisdiction over the
precinct of Blackfriars, nor did Farrant live in the building.]

Such was Farrant's scheme. In searching for a hall suitable for his purpose, his mind at once
turned to the precinct of Blackfriars, where in former years the Office of the Revels had been
kept, and where the Children had often rehearsed their plays. The precinct had once, as the
name indicates, been in the possession of the Dominican or "Black" Friars. The Priory buildings
had consisted chiefly of a great church two hundred and twenty feet long and sixty-six feet
broad, with a cloister on the south side of the church forming a square of one hundred and
ten feet, and a smaller cloister to the south of this. At the dissolution of the religious
orders, the property had passed into the possession of the Crown; hence, though within the
city walls, it was not under the jurisdiction of the city authorities. Farrant probably did
not anticipate any interference on the part of the Common Council with the royal choristers
"practicing" their plays in order "to yield Her Majesty recreation and delight," yet the absolute
certainty of being free from the adverse legislation of the London authorities was not to be
ignored. Moreover, the precinct was now the home of many noblemen and wealthy gentlemen, and
Farrant probably thought that, as one of the most fashionable residential districts in London,
it was suitable for "private" performances to be given by members of Her Majesty's household.

In furthering his project he sought the counsel and aid of his "very friend" Sir Henry Neville,
Lieutenant of Windsor, who, it is to be presumed, was interested in the Windsor Boys. It happened
that Neville knew of exactly such rooms as were desired, rooms in the old monastery of Blackfriars
which he himself had once leased as a residence, and which, he heard, were "to be let either
presently, or very shortly." These rooms were in the southwestern corner of the monastery,
on the upper floor of two adjoining buildings formerly used by the monks as a buttery and a
frater. A history of the rooms up to the time of their use as a theatre may be briefly sketched.

In 1548 the buttery and frater, with certain other buildings, were let by King Edward to Sir
Thomas Cawarden, Master of the Revels; and in 1550 they were granted to him outright. In 1554
Cawarden sold the northern section of the buttery, fifty-two feet in length, to Lord Cobham,
whose mansion it adjoined. The rest of the buttery, forty-six feet in length, and the frater,
he converted into lodgings. Since the frater was of exceptional breadth--fifty-two feet on
the outside, forty-six feet on the inside--he ran a partition through its length, dividing
it into two parts. The section of the frater on the west of this partition he let to Sir Richard
Frith; the section on the east, with the remainder of the buttery not sold to Lord Cobham,
he let to Sir John Cheeke. It is with the Cheeke Lodgings that we are especially concerned.

About September, 1554, Cheeke went to travel abroad, and surrendered his rooms in the Blackfriars.
Sir Thomas Cawarden thereupon made use of them "for the Office of the Queen's Majesty's Revells";
thus for a time the Cheeke Lodgings were intimately connected with dramatic activities. But
at the death of Cawarden, in 1559, the Queen transferred the Office of the Revels to St. John's,
and the Blackfriars property belonging to Cawarden passed into the possession of Sir William More.

In 1560 the new proprietor let the Cheeke Lodgings to Sir Henry Neville, with the addition
of "a void piece of ground" eighteen feet wide extending west to Water Lane.[149] During his
tenancy Neville erected certain partitions, built a kitchen in the "void piece of ground,"
and a large stairway leading to the rooms overhead. In 1568 he surrendered his lease, and More
let the rooms first to some "sylk dyers," and then in 1571 to Lord Cobham. In 1576 Cobham gave
up the rooms, and More was seeking a tenant. It was at this auspicious moment that Farrant
planned a private theatre, and enlisted the aid of Sir Henry Neville.

[Footnote 149: This was enclosed with brick walls, and the greater part used as a wood-yard.
This yard was later purchased by James Burbage when he secured the frater for his playhouse.
The kitchen, shed, and stairs, built on the eastern part, were sold to Cobham.]

On August 27 Farrant and Neville separately wrote letters to Sir William More about the matter.
Farrant respectfully solicited the lease, and made the significant request that he might "pull
down one partition, and so make two rooms--one." Neville, in a friendly letter beginning with
"hearty commendations unto you and to Mrs. More," and ending with light gossip, urged Sir William
to let the rooms to Farrant, and recommended Farrant as a desirable tenant ("I dare answer
for him"). Neither letter mentioned the purpose for which the rooms, especially the large room
referred to by Farrant, were to be used; but More doubtless understood that the Windsor Children
were to practice their plays there, with occasional private rehearsals. Largely as a result
of Neville's recommendation, More decided to let the rooms to Farrant. The progress of the
negotiations is marked by a letter from Farrant to More, dated September 17, 1576, requesting
that there be granted him also a certain "little dark room," which he found would be useful.

The lease as finally signed describes the property thus:

     Sir William More hath demised, granted, and to ferm letten,
     and by these presents doth demise, grant, and to ferm let
     unto the said Richard Farrant all those his six upper
     chambers, lofts, lodgings, or rooms, lying together within
     the precinct of the late dissolved house or priory of the
     Blackfriars, otherwise called the friars preachers, in
     London; which said six upper chambers, lofts, lodgings, or
     rooms, were lately, amongst others, in the tenure and
     occupation of the right honourable Sir William Brooke,
     Knight, Lord Cobham; and do contain in length from the north
     end thereof to the south end of the same one hundred fifty
     and six foot and a half of assize; whereof two of the said
     six upper chambers, lofts, lodgings, or rooms in the north
     end of the premises, together with the breadth of the little
     room under granted, do contain in length forty[150] and six
     foot and a half, and from the east to the west part thereof
     in breadth twenty and five foot of assize;[151] and the
     four other chambers, or rooms, residue of the said six upper
     chambers, do contain in length one hundred and ten foot, and
     in breadth from the east to the west part thereof twenty-two
     foot of assize.... And also ... the great stairs lately
     erected and made by the said Sir Henry Neville upon part of
     the said void ground and way.

[Footnote 150: By an error in the manuscript this reads "fifty"; but the rooms are often described
and always as "forty-six" feet in length; moreover, the error is made obvious by the rest of
the lease.]

[Footnote 151: The breadth is elsewhere given as twenty-six, and twenty-seven feet.]

It was agreed that the lease should run for twenty-one years, and that the rental should be
£14 per annum. But Sir William More, being a most careful and exacting landlord, with the interest
of his adjacent lodgings to care for, inserted in the lease the following important proviso,
which was destined to make trouble, and ultimately to wreck the theatre:

     Provided also that the said Richard Farrant, his executors
     or assigns, or any of them, shall not in any wise demise,
     let, grant, assign, set over, or by any ways or means put
     away his or their interest or term of years, or any part of
     the same years, of or in the said premises before letten, or
     any part, parcel, or member thereof to any person, or
     persons, at any time hereafter during this present lease and
     term of twenty-one years, without the special license,
     consent, and agreement of the said Sir William More, his
     heirs and assigns, first had, and obtained in writing under
     his and their hands and seals.

The penalty affixed to a violation of this provision was the immediate forfeiture of the lease.

Apparently Farrant entered into possession of the rooms on September 29[152] (although the
formal lease was not signed until December 20), and we may suppose that he at once set about
converting the two upper rooms at the north end of the lodgings into a suitable theatre.[153]
Naturally he took for his model the halls at Court in which the Children had been accustomed
to act. First, we are told, he "pulled down partitions to make that place apt for that purpose";
next, he "spoiled" the windows--by which is meant, no doubt, that he stopped up the windows,
for the performances were to be by candle-light. At one end of the hall he erected a platform
to serve as a stage, and in the auditorium he placed benches or chairs. There was, presumably,
no room for a gallery; if such had been erected, the indignant More would certainly have mentioned
it in his bill of complaints.[154] Chandeliers over the stage, and, possibly, footlights, completed
the necessary arrangements. For these alterations Farrant, we are told, became "greatly indebted,"
and he died three or four years later with the debt still unpaid. More complained that the
alterations had put the rooms into a state of "great ruin," which meant, of course, from the
point of view of a landlord desiring to let them again for residential purposes. Just how costly
or how extensive the alterations were we cannot now determine; but we may reasonably conclude
that Farrant made the hall not only "commodious for his purpose," but also attractive to the
aristocratic audiences he intended to gather there to see his plays.

[Footnote 152: The date from which the lease was made to run.]

[Footnote 153: It is usually said that he converted the entire seven rooms into his theatre,
but that seems highly unlikely. The northern section was 46 x 26 feet, the southern section
110 x 22--absurd dimensions for an auditorium. Moreover, that Farrant originally planned to
use only the northern section is indicated by his request to be allowed to "pull down one partition
and so make two rooms--one." The portion not used for the playhouse he rented; in 1580, we
are told, he let "two parcels thereof to two several persons."]

[Footnote 154: M. Feuillerat, I think, is wrong in supposing that there was a gallery. He deduces
no proof for his contention, and the evidence is against him.]

To reach the hall, playgoers had to come first into Water Lane, thence through "a way leading
from the said way called Water Lane" to "a certain void ground" before the building. Here "upon
part of the said void ground" they found a "great stairs, which said great stairs do serve
and lead into" the upper rooms--or, as we may now say, Blackfriars Playhouse.[155]

[Footnote 155: There must have been two stairways leading to the upper rooms; I have assumed
that playgoers used Neville's stairs to reach the theatre.]

Having thus provided a playhouse, Farrant next provided an adequate company of boy actors.
To do this, he combined the Children of Windsor with the Children of the Chapel Royal, of which
William Hunnis was master. What arrangement he made with Hunnis we do not know, but the Court
records show that Farrant was regarded as the manager of the new organization; he is actually
referred to in the payments as "Master of the Children of Her Majesty's Chapel," and Hunnis's
official connection with the Children is ignored.

Farrant may have been able to open his playhouse before the close of the year; or he may have
first begun performances there in the early months of 1577. He would certainly be anxious to
make use of the new play he was preparing for presentation at Court on Twelfth Day, January
6, 1577.

For four years, 1576-1580, the playhouse was operated without trouble. Sir William More, however,
was not pleased at the success with which the actors were meeting. He asserted that when he
made the lease he was given to understand that the building was to be used "only for the teaching
of the Children of the Chapel"--with, no doubt, a few rehearsals to which certain persons would
be privately invited. But, now, to his grief, he discovered that Farrant had "made it a continual
house for plays." He asserted that the playhouse had become offensive to the precinct; and
doubtless some complaints had been made to him, as landlord, by the more aristocratic inhabitants.[156]
At any rate, he became anxious to regain possession of the building.

[Footnote 156: I suspect that the theatre gave greater offense to More himself than it did
to any one else, for it adjoined his home, and the audience made use of the private passage
which led from Water Lane to his mansion. Unquestionably he suffered worse than any one else
both from the noise and the crowds.]

In the autumn of 1580 he saw an opportunity to break the lease and close the playhouse. Farrant
made the mistake of letting "two parcels thereof to two severall persons" without first gaining
the written consent of More, and at once More "charged him with forfeiture of his lease." But
before More could "take remedy against him" Farrant died, November 30, 1580. More, however,
"entered upon the house, and refused to receive any rent but conditionally."

By his will, proved March 1, 1581, Farrant left the lease of the Blackfriars to his widow,
Anne Farrant. But she had no authority over the royal choristers, nor was she qualified to
manage a company of actors, even if she had had the time to do so after caring for her "ten
little ones." What use, if any, was made of the playhouse during the succeeding winter we do
not know. The widow writes that she, "being a sole woman, unable of herself to use the said
rooms to such purpose as her said husband late used them, nor having any need or occasion to
occupy them to such commodity as would discharge the rents due for the said rooms in the bill
alledged, nor being able to sustain, repair, and amend the said rooms," etc.;[157] the natural
inference from which is that for a time the playhouse stood unused. The widow, of course, was
anxious to sublet the building to some one who could make use of it as a playhouse; and on
December 25, 1580, she addressed a letter to Sir William More asking his written permission
to make such a disposal of the lease. The letter has a pathetic interest that justifies its
insertion here:

     To the right worshipful Sir William More, Knight, at his
     house near Guilford, give these with speed.

     Right worshipful Sir:

     After my humble commendations, and my duty also
     remembered--where it hath pleased your worship to grant unto
     my husband in his life time one lease of your house within
     the Blackfriars, for the term of twenty-one years, with a
     proviso in the end thereof that he cannot neither let nor
     set the same without your worship's consent under your hand
     in writing. And now for that it hath pleased God to call my
     said husband unto His mercy, having left behind him the
     charge of ten small children upon my hand, and my husband
     besides greatly indebted, not having the revenue of one
     groat any way coming in, but by making the best I may of
     such things as he hath left behind him, to relieve my little
     ones. May it therefore please your worship, of your abundant
     clemency and accustomed goodness, to consider a poor widow's
     distressed estate, and for God's cause to comfort her with
     your worship's warrant under your hand to let and set the
     same to my best comodity during the term of years in the
     said lease contained, not doing any waste. In all which
     doing, I shall evermore most abundantly pray unto God for
     the preservation of your worship's long continuance. From
     Grenwich, the twenty-fifth of December,

     By a poor and sorrowful widow,

     ANNE FARRANT.[158]

[Footnote 157: Wallace, The Evolution of the English Drama, p. 163.]

[Footnote 158: Wallace, The Evolution of the English Drama, p. 153.]

Whether she secured in writing the permission she requested we do not know. Four years later
More said that she did not. Possibly, however, she was orally given to understand that she
might transfer the lease to her husband's former partner in the enterprise, William Hunnis.[159]
Hunnis naturally was eager to make use of the building in preparation for the Christmas plays
at Court. At some date before September 19, he secured the use of the playhouse on a temporary
agreement with the widow; but in order to avoid any difficulty with More, he interviewed the
latter, and presented a letter of recommendation from the Earl of Leicester. This letter has
been preserved among Sir William's papers:

     Sir William More:

     Whereas my friend, Mr. Hunnis, this bearer, informeth me
     that he hath of late bought of Farrant's widow her lease of
     that house in Blackfriars which you made to her husband,
     deceased, and means there to practice the Queen's Children
     of the Chapel, being now in his charge, in like sort as his
     predecessor did, for the better training them to do Her
     Majesty's service; he is now a suitor to me to recommend him
     to your good favour--which I do very heartily, as one that I
     wish right well unto, and will give you thanks for any
     continuance or friendship you shall show him for the
     furtherance of this his honest request. And thus, with my
     hearty commendations, I wish you right heartily well to
     fare. From the Court, this nineteenth of September, 1581.

     Your very friend,

     R. LEICESTER.[160]

[Footnote 159: More had "refused to accept any rent but conditionally." Probably he refused
written consent to the sublease for the same reason.]

[Footnote 160: Wallace, The Evolution of the English Drama, p. 154.]

The result of this interview we do not know. But on December 20 following, the widow made a
formal lease of the property to William Hunnis and John Newman, at a rental of £20 13s. 4d.
a year, an increase of £6 13s. 4d. over the rental she had to pay More. She required of them
a bond of £100 to guarantee their performance of all the covenants of the lease. Thereupon
the theatre under Hunnis and Newman resumed its career--if, indeed, this had ever been seriously
interrupted.

In the course of time, More's anxiety to recover possession of the hall seems to have increased.
The quarterly payments were not promptly met by the widow, and the repairs on the building
were not made to his satisfaction. Probably through fear of the increasing dissatisfaction
on the part of More, Hunnis and Newman transferred their lease, in 1583, to a young Welsh scrivener,
Henry Evans, who had become interested in dramatic affairs. This transfer of the lease without
More's written consent was a second clear breach of the original contract, and it gave More
exactly the opportunity he sought. Accordingly, he declared the original lease to Farrant void,
and made a new lease of the house "unto his own man, Thomas Smallpiece, to try the said Evans
his right." But Evans, being a lawyer, knew how to take care of himself. He "demurred in law,"
and "kept the same in his hands with long delays."

The widow, alarmed at the prospect of losing her lease, brought suit, in December, 1583, against
Hunnis and Newman separately for the forfeiture of their several bonds of £100, contending
that they had not paid promptly according to their agreement, and had not kept the building
in proper repair. Hunnis and Newman separately brought suit in the Court of Requests for relief
against the widow's suits. Meanwhile More was demanding judgment against Evans. Hunnis, it
seems, carried his troubles to the Court and there sought help. Queen Elizabeth could take
no direct action, because Sir William More was a good friend of hers, who had entertained her
in his home. But she might enlist the aid of one of her noblemen who were interested in the
drama. However this was, the young Earl of Oxford, himself a playwright and the patron of a
troupe of boy-actors, came to the rescue of the theatre. He bought the lease of the building
from Evans, and undertook to reorganize its affairs. To Hunnis's twelve Children of the Chapel
he added the Children of St. Paul's Cathedral, making thus a company of adequate size. He retained
Hunnis, no doubt, as one of the trainers of the Boys, and he kept Evans as manager of the troupe.
Moreover, shortly after the purchase, probably in June, 1583, he made a free gift of the lease
to his private secretary, John Lyly, a young man who had recently won fame with the first English
novel, Euphues. The object of this, like the preceding transfers of title, it seems, was to
put as many legal blocks in the path of Sir William More as possible. More realized this, and
complained specifically that "the title was posted from one to another"; yet he had firmly
made up his mind to recover the property, and in spite of Oxford's interference, he instructed
his "learned council" to "demand judgment."

Meanwhile the dramatic organization at Blackfriars continued under the direction of Hunnis,
Evans, and Lyly, with the Earl of Oxford as patron. Not only was Lyly the proprietor of the
theatre, but he attempted to supply it with the necessary plays. He had already shown his power
to tell in effective prose a pleasing love romance. That power he now turned to the production
of his first play, written in haste for the Christmas festivities. The play, Alexander and
Campaspe, was presented before Her Majesty on January 1, 1584, and at Blackfriars, with great
applause. Lyly's second play, Sapho and Phao, was produced at Court on March 3, following,
and also at Blackfriars before the general public.

But at the Easter term, 1584, Sir William More got judgment in his favor. The widow begged
Sir Francis Walsingham to intercede in her behalf, declaring that the loss of the lease "might
be her utter undoing."[161] Walsingham sent the letter to More, and apparently urged a consideration
of her case. More, however, refused to yield. He banished Lyly, Hunnis, Evans, and the Children
from the "great upper hall," and reconverted the building into tenements.

[Footnote 161: The letter is printed in full by Mr. Wallace in The Evolution of the English
Drama, p. 158. Mr. Wallace, however, misdates it. It was not written until after More had "recovered
it [the lease] against Evans."]

CHAPTER VI

ST. PAUL'S

As shown in the preceding chapter, not only were the Children of the Chapel Royal and of Windsor
called upon to entertain the Queen with dramatic performances, but the Children of St. Paul's
were also expected to amuse their sovereign on occasion. And following the example of the Children
of the Chapel and of Windsor in giving performances before the public in Blackfriars, the Paul's
Boys soon began to give such performances in a building near the Cathedral.[162] The building
so employed was doubtless one of the structures owned by the Church. Burbage and Heminges refer
to it as "the said house near St. Paul's Church."[163] Richard Flecknoe, in A Discourse of
the English Stage (1664), places it "behind the Convocation-house in Paul's";[164] and Howes,
in his continuation of Stow's Annals (1631), says that it was the "singing-school" of the Cathedral.[165]
That the auditorium was small we may well believe. So was the stage. Certain speakers in the
Induction to What You Will, acted at Paul's in 1600, say: "Let's place ourselves within the
curtains, for, good faith, the stage is so very little, we shall wrong the general eye else
very much." Both Fleay and Lawrence[166] contend that the building was "round, like the Globe,"
and as evidence they cite the Prologue to Marston's Antonio's Revenge, acted at Paul's in 1600,
in which the phrases "within this round" and "within this ring" are applied to the theatre.
The phrases, however, may have reference merely to the circular disposition of the benches
about the stage. That high prices of admission to the little theatre were charged we learn
from a marginal note in Pappe with an Hatchet (1589), which states that if a tragedy "be showed
at Paul's, it will cost you four pence; at the Theatre two pence."[167] The Children, indeed,
catered to a very select public. Persons who went thither were gentle by birth and by behavior
as well; and playwrights, we are told, could always feel sure there of the "calm attention
of a choice audience."[168] Lyly, in the Prologue to Midas, acted at Paul's in 1589, says:
"Only this doth encourage us, that presenting our studies before Gentlemen, though they receive
an inward dislike, we shall not be hissed with an open disgrace." Things were quite otherwise
in the public theatres of Shoreditch and the Bankside.

[Footnote 162: Murray, English Dramatic Companies, I, 325, erroneously says: "Their public
place was, probably, from the first, the courtyard of St. Paul's Cathedral."]

[Footnote 163: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 95.]

[Footnote 164: That is, in or near Pater Noster Row.]

[Footnote 165: Annales, or A Generall Chronicle of England, 1631, signature liii 1, verso.]

[Footnote 166: F.G. Fleay, A Biographical Chronicle of the English Drama, II, 76; W.J. Lawrence,
The Elizabethan Playhouse, p. 17.]

[Footnote 167: R.W. Bond, The Complete Works of John Lyly, III, 408. Higher prices of admission
were charged to all the private playhouses.]

[Footnote 168: John Marston, Antonio's Revenge, acted at Paul's in 1600.]

Under the direction of their master, Sebastian Westcott, the Boys acted before the public at
least as early as 1578,[169] for in December of that year the Privy Council ordered the Lord
Mayor to permit them to "exercise plays" within the city;[170] and Stephen Gosson, in his Plays
Confuted, written soon afterwards, mentions Cupid and Psyche as having been recently "plaid
at Paules."

[Footnote 169: There is a record of a play by the Paul's Boys in 1527 before ambassadors from
France, dealing with the heretic Luther; but exactly when they began to give public performances
for money we do not know.]

[Footnote 170: Malone, Variorum, III, 432.]

Westcott died in 1582, and was succeeded by Thomas Gyles. Shortly after this we find the Children
of Paul's acting publicly with the Children of the Chapel Royal at the little theatre in Blackfriars.
For them John Lyly wrote his two earliest plays, Campaspe and Sapho and Phao, as the title-pages
clearly state. But their stay at Blackfriars was short. When in 1584 Sir William More closed
up the theatre there, they fell back upon their singing-school as the place for their public
performances.

At the same time the Queen became greatly interested in promoting their dramatic activities.
To their master, Thomas Gyles, she issued, in April, 1585, a special commission "to take up
apt and meet children" wherever he could find them. It was customary for the Queen to issue
such a commission to the masters of her two private chapels, but never before, or afterwards,
had this power to impress children been conferred upon a person not directly connected with
the royal choristers. Its issuance to Gyles in 1585 clearly indicates the Queen's interest
in the Paul's Boys as actors, and her expectation of being frequently entertained by them.
And to promote her plans still further, she appointed the successful playwright John Lyly as
their vice-master, with the understanding, no doubt, that he was to keep them--and her--supplied
with plays. This he did, for all his comedies, except the two just mentioned, were written
for the Cathedral Children, and were acted by them at Court, and in their little theatre "behind
the Convocation House."

Unfortunately under Lyly's leadership the Boys became involved in the bitter Martin Marprelate
controversy, for which they were suppressed near the end of 1590. The printer of Lyly's Endimion,
in 1591, says to the reader: "Since the plays in Paul's were dissolved, there are certain comedies
come to my hands by chance, which were presented before Her Majesty at several times by the
Children of Paul's."

Exactly how long the Children were restrained it is hard to determine. In 1596 Thomas Nash,
in Have With You to Saffron Walden, expressed a desire to see "the plays at Paul's up again."
Mr. Wallace thinks they may have been allowed "up again" in 1598;[171] Fleay, in 1599 or 1600;[172]
the evidence, however, points, I think, to the spring or early summer of 1600. The Children
began, naturally, with old plays, "musty fopperies of antiquity"; the first, or one of the
first, new plays they presented was Marston's Jack Drum's Entertainment, the date of which
can be determined within narrow limits. References to Kempe's Morris, which was danced in February,
1600, as being still a common topic of conversation, and the entry of the play in the Stationers'
Registers on September 8, 1600, point to the spring or early summer of 1600 as the date of
composition. This makes very significant the following passage in the play referring to the
Paul's Boys as just beginning to act again after their long inhibition:

     Sir Ed. I saw the Children of Paul's last night,
     And troth they pleas'd me pretty, pretty well.
     The Apes in time will do it handsomely.

     Plan. S'faith, I like the audience that frequenteth there
     With much applause. A man shall not be choak't
     With the stench of garlic, nor be pasted
     To the barmy jacket of a beer-brewer.

     Bra. Ju. 'Tis a good, gentle audience; and I hope the Boys
     Will come one day into the Court of Requests.

[Footnote 171: The Children of the Chapel, p. 153.]

[Footnote 172: A Chronicle History of the London Stage, p. 152.]

Shortly after this the Boys were indeed called "into the Court of Requests," for on New Year's
Day, 1601, they were summoned to present a play before Her Majesty.

Their master now was Edward Pierce, who had succeeded Thomas Gyles. In 1605 the experienced
Edward Kirkham, driven from the management of the Blackfriars Theatre, became an assistant
to Pierce in the management of Paul's. In this capacity we find him in 1606 receiving the payment
for the two performances of the Boys at Court that year.[173]

[Footnote 173: Cunningham, Extracts from the Accounts of the Revels, p. XXXVIII.]

Among the playwrights engaged by Pierce to write for Paul's were Marston, Middleton, Chapman,
Dekker, Webster, and Beaumont; and, as a result, some of the most interesting dramas of the
period were first acted on the small stage of the singing-school. Details in the history of
the Children, however, are few. We find an occasional notice of their appearance at Court,
but our record of them is mainly secured from the title-pages of their plays.

The last notice of a performance by them is as follows: "On the 30th of July, 1606, the youths
of Paul's, commonly called the Children of Paul's, played before the two Kings [of England
and of Denmark] a play called Abuses, containing both a comedy and a tragedy, at which the
Kings seemed to take great delight and be much pleased."[174]

[Footnote 174: Nichols, The Progresses of James, IV, 1073.]

The reason why the Children ceased to act is made clear in the lawsuit of Keysar v. Burbage
et al., recently discovered and printed by Mr. Wallace.[175] From this we learn that when Rosseter
became manager of the Children of the Queen's Revels at the private playhouse of Whitefriars
in 1609, he undertook to increase his profits by securing a monopoly both of child-acting and
of private theatres. Blackfriars had been deserted, and the only other private theatre then
in existence was Paul's. So Rosseter agreed to pay Pierce a dead rent of £20 a year to keep
the Paul's playhouse closed:

     One Mr. Rosseter, a partner of the said complainant, dealt
     for and compounded with the said Mr. Pierce to the only
     benefit of him, the said Mr. Rosseter, the now complainant,
     the rest of their partners and Company [at the Whitefriars]
     ... that thereby they might ... advance their gains and
     profit to be had and made in their said house in the
     Whitefriars, that there might be a cessation of playing and
     plays to be acted in the said house near St. Paul's Church
     aforesaid, for which the said Rosseter compounded with the
     said Pierce to give him the said Pierce twenty pounds per
     annum.[176]

[Footnote 175: Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 80.]

[Footnote 176: Ibid., p. 95.]

In this attempt to secure a monopoly in private playhouses Rosseter was foiled by the coming
of Shakespeare's troupe to the Blackfriars; but the King's Men readily agreed to join in the
payment of the dead rent to Pierce, for it was to their advantage also to eliminate competition.

The agreement which Rosseter secured from Pierce was binding "for one whole year"; whether
it was renewed we do not know, but the Children never again acted in "their house near St.
Paul's Church."

CHAPTER VII

THE BANKSIDE AND THE BEAR GARDEN

From time out of mind the suburb of London known as "the Bankside"--the term was loosely applied
to all the region south of the river and west of the bridge--had been identified with sports
and pastimes. On Sundays, holidays, and other festive occasions, the citizens, their wives,
and their apprentices were accustomed to seek outdoor entertainment across the river, going
thither in boats (of which there was an incredible number, converting "the silver sliding Thames"
almost into a Venetian Grand Canal), or strolling on foot over old London Bridge. On the Bankside
the visitors could find maypoles for dancing, butts for the practice of archery, and broad
fields for athletic games; or, if so disposed, they could visit bull-baitings, bear-baitings,
fairs, stage-plays, shows, motions, and other amusements of a similar sort.

Not all the attractions of the Bankside, however, were so innocent. For here, in a long row
bordering the river's edge, were situated the famous stews of the city, licensed by authority
of the Bishop of Winchester; and along with the stews, of course, such places as thrive in
a district devoted to vice--houses for gambling, for coney-catching, and for evil practices
of various sorts. The less said of this feature of the Bankside the better.

More needs to be said of the bull- and bear-baiting, which probably constituted the chief amusement
of the crowds from the city, and which was later closely associated with the drama and with
playhouses. This sport, now surviving in the bull-fights of Spain and of certain Spanish-American
countries, was in former times one of the most popular species of entertainment cultivated
by the English. Even so early as 1174, William Fitz-Stephen, in his Descriptio Nobilissimæ
Ciuitatis Londoniæ, under the heading De Ludis, records that the London citizens diverted themselves
on holiday occasions with the baiting of beasts, when "strong horn-goring bulls, or immense
bears, contend fiercely with dogs that are pitted against them."[177] In some towns the law
required that bulls intended for the butcher-shop should first be baited for the amusement
of the public before being led to the slaughter-house. Erasmus speaks of the "many herds of
bears" which he saw in England "maintained for the purpose of baiting." The baiting was accomplished
by tying the bulls or bears to stakes, or when possible releasing them in an amphitheatre,
and pitting against them bull-dogs, bred through centuries for strength and ferocity. Occasionally
other animals, as ponies and apes, were brought into the fight, and the sport was varied in
miscellaneous ways. Some of the animals, by unusual courage or success, endeared themselves
to the heart of the sporting public. Harry Hunks, George Stone, and Sacarson were famous bears
in Shakespeare's time; and the names of many of the "game bulls" and "mastiff dogs" became
household words throughout London.

[Footnote 177: "Pingues tauri cornupetæ, seu vrsi immanes, cum obiectis depugnant canibus."]

The home of this popular sport was the Bankside. The earliest extant map of Southwark,[178]
drawn about 1542, shows in the very centre of High Street, just opposite London Bridge, a circular
amphitheatre marked "The Bull Ring"; and doubtless there were other places along the river
devoted to the same purpose. The baiting of bears was more closely identified with the Manor
of Paris Garden,[179] that section of the Bank lying to the west of the Clink, over towards
the marshes of Lambeth. The association of bear-baiting with this particular section was probably
due to the fact that in early days the butchers of London used a part of the Manor of Paris
Garden for the disposal of their offal,[180] and the entrails and other refuse from the slaughtered
beasts furnished cheap and abundant food for the bears and dogs. The Earl of Manchester wrote
to the Lord Mayor and the Common Council, in 1664, that he had been informed by the master
of His Majesty's Game of Bears and Bulls, and others, that "the Butcher's Company had formerly
caused all their offal in Eastcheap and Newgate Market to be conveyed by the beadle of the
Company unto two barrow houses, conveniently placed on the river side, for the provision and
feeding of the King's Game of Bears."

[Footnote 178: The map is reproduced in facsimile by Rendle as a frontispiece to Old Southwark
and its People.]

[Footnote 179: Or Parish Garden, possibly the more correct form. For the early history of the
Manor see William Bray, The History and Antiquities of the County of Surrey, III, 530; Wallace,
in Englische Studien (1911), XLIII, 341, note 3; Ordish, Early London Theatres, p. 125.]

[Footnote 180: Blount, in his Glossographia (1681), p. 473, says of Paris Garden: "So called
from Robert de Paris, who had a house and garden there in Richard II.'s time; who by proclamation,
ordained that the butchers of London should buy that garden for receipt of their garbage and
entrails of beasts, to the end the city might not be annoyed thereby."]

At first, apparently, the baiting of bears was held in open places,[181] with the bear tied
to a stake and the spectators crowding around, or at best standing on temporary scaffolds.
But later, permanent amphitheatres were provided. In Braun and Hogenberg's Map of London, drawn
between 1554 and 1558, and printed in 1572, we find two well-appointed amphitheatres, with
stables and kennels attached, labeled respectively "The Bear Baiting" and "The Bull Baiting."
When these amphitheatres were erected we do not know, but probably they do not antedate by
much the middle of the century.[182]

[Footnote 181: See Gilpin's Life of Cranmer for a description of a bear-baiting before the
King held on or near the river's edge. See also the proclamation of Henry VIII in 1546 against
the stews, which implies the non-existence of regular amphitheatres.]

[Footnote 182: Sir Sidney Lee (Shakespeare's England, II, 428) says that one of the amphitheatres
was erected in 1526. I do not know his authority; he was apparently misled by one of Rendle's
statements. Neither of the amphitheatres is shown in Wyngaerde's careful Map of London made
about 1530-1540; possibly they are referred to in the Diary of Henry Machyn under the date
of May 26, 1554. The old "Bull Ring" in High Street had then disappeared, and the baiting of
bulls was henceforth more or less closely associated, as was natural, with the baiting of bears.]

It is to be noted that at this time neither "The Bull Baiting" nor "The Bear Baiting" is in
the Manor of Paris Garden, but close by in the Liberty of the Clink. Yet the name "Paris Garden"
continued to be used of the animal-baiting place for a century and more. Possibly the identification
of bear-baiting with Paris Garden was of such long standing that Londoners could not readily
adjust themselves to the change; they at first confused the terms "Bear Garden" and "Paris
Garden," and later extended the term "Paris Garden" to include that section of the Clink devoted
to the baiting of animals.

The two amphitheatres, it seems, were used until 1583, when a serious catastrophe put an end
to one if not both of them. Stow, in his Annals, gives the following account of the accident:

     The same thirteenth day of January, being Sunday, about four
     of the clock in the afternoon, the old and underpropped
     scaffolds round about the Bear Garden, commonly called Paris
     Garden, on the south side of the river of Thamis over
     against the city of London, overcharged with people, fell
     suddenly down, whereby to the number of eight persons, men
     and women, were slain, and many others sore hurt and bruised
     to the shortening of their lives.[183]

[Footnote 183: Stow, Annals (ed. 1631), p. 696.]

Stubbes, the Puritan, writes in his more heightened style:

     Upon the 13 day of January last, being the Saboth day,
     Anno 1583, the people, men, women, and children, both
     young and old, an infinite number, flocking to those
     infamous places where these wicked exercises are usually
     practised (for they have their courts, gardens, and yards
     for the same purpose), when they were all come together and
     mounted aloft upon their scaffolds and galleries, and in the
     midst of all their jolity and pastime, all the whole
     building (not one stick standing) fell down with a most
     wonderful and fearful confusion. So that either two or three
     hundred men, women, and children (by estimation), whereof
     seven were killed dead, some were wounded, some lamed, and
     otherwise bruised and crushed almost to death. Some had
     their brains dashed out, some their heads all to-squashed,
     some their legs broken, some their arms, some their backs,
     some their shoulders, some one hurt, some another.[184]

[Footnote 184: Philip Stubbes, The Anatomie of Abuses (ed. Furnivall), p. 179.]

The building, which the Reverend John Field described as "old and rotten,"[185] was a complete
ruin; "not a stick was left so high as the bear was fastened to." The Puritan preachers loudly
denounced the unholy spectacles, pointing to the catastrophe as a clear warning from the Almighty;
and the city authorities earnestly besought the Privy Council to put an end to such performances.
Yet the owners of the building set to work at once, and soon had erected a new house, stronger
and larger and more pretentious than before. The Lord Mayor, in some indignation, wrote to
the Privy Council on July 3, 1583, that "the scaffolds are new builded, and the multitudes
on the Saboth day called together in most excessive number."[186]

[Footnote 185: A Godly Exhortation by Occasion of the Late Judgement of God, Shewed at Paris-Garden
(London, 1583). Another account of the disaster may be found in Vaughan's Golden Grove (1600).]

[Footnote 186: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 65.]

The New Bear Garden, octagonal in form, was probably modeled after the playhouses in Shoreditch,
and made in all respects superior to the old amphitheatre which it supplanted.[187] We find
that it was reckoned among the sights of the city, and was exhibited to distinguished foreign
visitors. For example, when Sir Walter Raleigh undertook to entertain the French Ambassador,
he carried him to view the monuments in Westminster Abbey and to see the new Bear Garden.

[Footnote 187: What became of the other amphitheatre labeled "The Bull Baiting" I do not know.
Stow, in his Survey, 1598, says: "Now to return to the west bank, there be two bear gardens,
the old and new places, wherein be kept bears, bulls, and other beasts to be baited."]

A picture of the building is to be seen in the Hondius View of London, 1610 (see page 149),
and in the small inset views from the title-pages of Holland's Her[Greek: ô]ologia, 1620, and
Baker's Chronicle, 1643 (see page 147), all three of which probably go back to a view of London
made between 1587 and 1597, and now lost. Another representation of the structure is to be
seen in the Delaram portrait of King James, along with the Rose and the Globe (see opposite
page 246). The best representation of the building, however, is in Visscher's View of London
(see page 127), printed in 1616, but drawn several years earlier.[188]

[Footnote 188: For a fuller discussion of these various maps and views see pages 146, 248,
and 328. Norden's map of 1594 (see page 147) merely indicates the site of the building.]

Although we are not directly concerned with the history of the Bear Garden,[189] a few descriptions
of "the royal game of bears, bulls, and dogs" drawn from contemporary sources will be of interest
and of specific value for the discussion of the Hope Playhouse--itself both a bear garden and
a theatre.

[Footnote 189: For such a history the reader is referred to Ordish, Early London Theatres;
Greg, Henslowe's Diary, II, and Henslowe Papers; Young, The History of Dulwich College; Rendle,
The Bankside, and The Playhouses at Bankside.]

Robert Laneham, in his Description of the Entertainment at Kenilworth (1575), writes thus of
a baiting of bears before the Queen:

     Well, syr, the Bearz wear brought foorth intoo the Coourt,
     the dogs set too them.... It was a Sport very pleazaunt of
     theez beastz; to see the bear with his pink nyez leering
     after hiz enemiez approoch, the nimbleness & wayt of ye dog
     to take his auauntage, and the fors & experiens of the bear
     agayn to auoyd the assauts: if he war bitten in one place,
     how he woold pynch in an oother to get free: that if he wear
     taken onez, then what shyft, with byting, with clawing, with
     rooring, tossing, & tumbling he woold woork to wynd hym self
     from them: and when he waz lose, to shake his earz tywse or
     thryse, wyth the blud and the slauer aboout his fiznomy, waz
     a matter of a goodly releef.

John Houghton, in his Collection for Improvement of Husbandry and Trade,[190] gives a vivid
account of the baiting of the bull. He says:

     The bull takes great care to watch his enemy, which is a
     mastiff dog (commonly used to the sport) with a short nose
     that his teeth may take the better hold; this dog, if right,
     will creep upon his belly that he may, if possible, get the
     bull by the nose; which the bull as carefully strives to
     defend by laying it close to the ground, where his horns are
     also ready to do what in them lies to toss the dog; and this
     is the true sport. But if more dogs than one come at once,
     or they are cowardly and come under his legs, he will, if he
     can, stamp their guts out. I believe I have seen a dog
     tossed by a bull thirty, if not forty foot high; and when
     they are tossed, either higher or lower, the men above
     strive to catch them on their shoulders, lest the fall might
     mischief the dogs. They commonly lay sand about that if they
     fall upon the ground it may be the easier. Notwithstanding
     this care a great many dogs are killed, more have their
     limbs broke, and some hold so fast that, by the bull's
     swinging them, their teeth are often broken out.... The true
     courage and art is to hold the bull by the nose 'till he
     roars, which a courageous bull scorns to do.... This is a
     sport the English much delight in; and not only the baser
     sort, but the greatest lords and ladies.

[Footnote 190: No. 108, August, 1694. Quoted by J.P. Malcolm, Anecdotes of the Manners and
Customs of London from the Roman Invasion to the Year 1700 (London, 1811), p. 433.]

An attendant upon the Duke of Nexara, who visited England in 1544, wrote the following account
of a bear-baiting witnessed in London:

     In another part of the city we saw seven bears, some of them
     of great size. They were led out every day to an enclosure,
     where being tied with a long rope, large and intrepid dogs
     are thrown to them, in order that they may bite and make
     them furious. It is no bad sport to see them fight, and the
     assaults they give each other. To each of the large bears
     are matched three or four dogs, which sometimes get the
     better and sometimes are worsted, for besides the fierceness
     and great strength of the bears to defend themselves with
     their teeth, they hug the dogs with their paws so tightly,
     that, unless the masters came to assist them, they would be
     strangled by such soft embraces. I quote the translation by
Frederick Madden, in Archæologia, XIII, 354-55.]

Orazio Busino, the chaplain of the Venetian Embassy in London, writes in his Anglipotrida (1618):

     The dogs are detached from the bear by inserting between the
     teeth ... certain iron spattles with a wooden handle; whilst
     they take them off the bull (keeping at a greater distance)
     with certain flat iron hooks which they apply to the thighs
     or even to the neck of the dog, whose tail is simultaneously
     dexterously seized by another of these rufflers. The bull
     can hardly get at anybody, as he wears a collar round his
     neck with only fifteen feet of rope, which is fastened to a
     stake deeply planted in the middle of the theatre. Other
     rufflers are at hand with long poles to put under the dog so
     as to break his fall after he has been tossed by the bull;
     the tips of these [poles] are covered with thick leather to
     prevent them from disembowelling the dogs. To this entertainment there often follows
     that of whipping a blinded bear, which is performed by five
     or six men standing circularly with whips, which they
     exercise upon him without any mercy, as he cannot escape
     from them because of his chain; he defends himself with all
     his force and skill, throwing down all who come within his
     reach, and are not active enough to get out of it, and
     tearing the whips out of their hands and breaking them.

The following passage is taken from the diary of the Duke of Wirtemberg (who visited London
in 1592), "noted down daily in the most concise manner possible, at his Highness's gracious
command, by his private secretary":[193]

     On the 1st of September his Highness was shown in London the
     English dogs, of which there were about 120, all kept in the
     same enclosure, but each in separate kennel. In order to
     gratify his Highness, and at his desire, two bears and a
     bull were baited; at such times you can perceive the breed
     and mettle of the dogs, for although they receive serious
     injuries from the bears, and are caught by the horns of the
     bull and tossed into the air so as frequently to fall down
     again upon the horns, they do not give in, [but fasten on
     the bull so firmly] that one is obliged to pull them back by
     the tails and force open their jaws. Four dogs at once were
     set on the bull; they however could not gain any advantage
     over him, for he so artfully contrived to ward off their
     attacks that they could not well get at him; on the
     contrary, the bull served them very scurvily by striking and
     beating at them.

[Footnote 193: The secretary was named Jacob Rathgeb, and the diary was published at Tübingen
in 1602 with a long title beginning: A True and Faithful Narrative of the Bathing Excursion
which His Serene Highness, etc. A translation will be found in Rye, England as Seen by Foreigners,
pp. 3-53.]

The following is a letter from one William Faunte to Edward Alleyn, then proprietor of the
Bear Garden, regarding the sale of some game bulls:

     I understood by a man which came with two bears from the
     garden, that you have a desire to buy one of my bulls. I
     have three western bulls at this time, but I have had very
     ill luck with them, for one of them hath lost his horn to
     the quick, that I think he will never be able to fight
     again; that is my old Star of the West: he was a very easy
     bull. And my bull Bevis, he hath lost one of his eyes, but I
     think if you had him he would do you more hurt than good,
     for I protest I think he would either throw up your dogs
     into the lofts, or else ding out their brains against the
     grates.[194]

[Footnote 194: Collier, The Alleyn Papers, p. 31.]

Finally, among the Alleyn papers of Dulwich College is an interesting bill, or advertisement,
of an afternoon's performance at the Bear Garden:

     To-morrow being Thursday shall be seen at the Bear Garden on
     the Bankside a great match played by the gamesters of Essex,
     who hath challenged all comers whatsoever to play five dogs
     at the single bear for five pounds, and also to weary a bull
     dead at the stake; and for your better content [you] shall
     have pleasant sport with the horse and ape and whipping of
     the blind bear. Vivat Rex!

In 1613 the Bear Garden was torn down, and a new and handsomer structure erected in its place.
For the history of this building the reader is referred to the chapter on "The Hope."

CHAPTER VIII

NEWINGTON BUTTS

The Bankside, as the preceding chapter indicates, offered unusual attractions to the actors.
It had, indeed, long been associated with the drama: in 1545 King Henry VIII, in a proclamation
against vagabonds, players,[195] etc., noted their "fashions commonly used at the Bank, and
such like naughty places, where they much haunt"; and in 1547 the Bishop of Winchester made
complaint that at a time when he intended to have a dirge and mass for the late King, the actors
in Southwark planned to exhibit "a solemn play, to try who shall have the most resort, they
in game or I in earnest."[196] The players, therefore, were no strangers to "the Bank." And
when later in the century the hostility of the Common Council drove them to seek homes in localities
not under the jurisdiction of the city, the suburb across the river offered them a suitable
refuge. For, although a large portion of Southwark was under the jurisdiction of London, certain
parts were not, notably the Liberty of the Clink and the Manor of Paris Garden, two sections
bordering the river's edge, and the district of Newington lying farther back to the southwest.
In these places the actors could erect their houses and entertain the public without fear of
the ordinances of the Corporation, and without danger of interruption by puritanical Lord Mayors.

[Footnote 195: It is just possible--but, I think, improbable--that the term "common players"
as used in this proclamation referred to gamblers. The term is regularly used in law to designate
actors.]

[Footnote 196: The Calendar of State Papers, Domestic, 1547, February 5, p. 1; cf. Tytler's
Edward VI and Mary, I, 20.]

Yet, as we have seen, the first public playhouses were erected not on the Bankside--a "naughty"
place,--but near Finsbury Field to the north of the city; and the reasons which led to the
selection of such a quiet and respectable district have been pointed out.[197] It was inevitable,
however, that sooner or later a playhouse should make its appearance in the region to the south
of the city. And at an early date--how early it is impossible to say, but probably not long
after the erection of the Theatre and the Curtain--there appeared in Southwark a building specially
devoted to the use of players. Whether it was a new structure modeled after the theatres of
Shoreditch, or merely an old building converted into a playhouse, we cannot say. It seems to
have been something more than an inn-yard fitted up for dramatic purposes, and yet something
less than the "sumptuous theatre houses" erected "on purpose" for plays to the north of the city.

[Footnote 197: See page 29.]

Whatever the building was, it was situated at Newington Butts (a place so called from the butts
for archery anciently erected there), and, unfortunately, at a considerable distance from the
river. Exactly how far playgoers from London had to walk to reach the theatre after crossing
over the river we do not know; but the Privy Council speaks of "the tediousness of the way"
thither,[198] and Stow notes that the parish church of Newington was "distant one mile from
London Bridge." Further information about the building--its exact situation, its size, its
exterior shape, its interior arrangement, and such-like details--is wholly lacking.

[Footnote 198: The Council again refers to the building in the phrase "in any of these remote
places." (Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XII, 15.)]

Nor are we much better off in regard to its ownership, management, and general history. This
seems to be due to the fact that it was not intimately associated with any of the more important
London troupes; and to the fact that after a few unsuccessful years it ceased to exist. Below
I have recorded the few and scattered references which constitute our meagre knowledge of its
history.

The first passage cited may refer to the playhouse at Newington Butts. It is an order of the
Privy Council, May 13, 1580, thus summarized by the clerk:

     A letter to the Justices of Peace of the County of Surrey,
     that whereas their Lordships do understand that
     notwithstanding their late order given to the Lord Mayor to
     forbid all plays within and about the city until Michaelmas
     next for avoiding of infection, nevertheless certain players
     do play sundry days every week at Newington Butts in that
     part of Surrey without the jurisdiction of the said Lord
     Mayor, contrary to their Lordship's order; their Lordships
     require the Justices not only to inquire who they be that
     disobey their commandment in that behalf, and not only to
     forbid them expressly for playing in any of these remote
     places near unto the city until Michaelmas, but to have
     regard that within the precinct of Surrey none be permitted
     to play; if any do, to commit them and to advertise them,
     &c.[199]

[Footnote 199: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XII, 15.]

The next passage clearly refers to "the theatre" at Newington Butts. On May 11, 1586, the Privy
Council dispatched a letter to the Lord Mayor, which the clerk thus summarized:

     A letter to the Lord Mayor: his Lordship is desired,
     according to his request made to their Lordships by his
     letters of the vii th of this present, to give order for the
     restraining of plays and interludes within and about the
     city of London, for the avoiding of infection feared to grow
     and increase this time of summer by the common assemblies of
     people at those places; and that their Lordships have taken
     the like order for the prohibiting of the use of plays at
     the theatre, and the other places about Newington, out of
     his charge.[200]

[Footnote 200: Ibid., XIV, 102.]

Chalmers[201] thought the word "theatre" was used of the Newington Playhouse, and for this
he was taken to task by Collier,[202] who says: "He confounds it with the playhouse emphatically
called 'the Theatre' in Shoreditch; and on consulting the Register, we find that no such playhouse
as the Newington Theatre is there spoken of." But Chalmers was right; for if we consult the
"Registers" we find the following letter, dispatched to the Justices of Surrey on the very
same day that the letter just quoted was sent to the Lord Mayor:

     A letter to the Justices of Surrey, that according to such
     direction as hath been given by their Lordships to the Lord
     Mayor to restrain and inhibit the use of plays and
     interludes in public places in and about the City of London,
     in respect of the heat of the year now drawing on, for the
     avoiding of the infection like to grow and increase by the
     ordinary assemblies of the people to those places, they are
     also required in like sort to take order that the plays and
     assemblies of the people at the theatre or any other places
     about Newington be forthwith restrained and forborn as
     aforesaid, &c.[203]

[Footnote 201: Apology, p. 403.]

[Footnote 202: History of English Dramatic Poetry (1879), III, 131.]

[Footnote 203: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XIV, 99.]

The phrase, "the theatre or any other places about Newington," when addressed to the "Justices
of the Peace of Surrey" could refer only to the Newington Butts Playhouse.

On June 23, 1592, because of a riot in Southwark, the Privy Council closed all the playhouses
in and about London.[204] Shortly after this the Lord Strange's Men, who were then occupying
the Rose, petitioned the Council to be allowed to resume acting in their playhouse. The Council
granted them instead permission to act three times a week at Newington Butts; but the players,
not relishing this proposal, chose rather to travel in the provinces. Soon finding that they
could not make their expenses in the country, they returned to London, and again appealed to
the Privy Council to be allowed to perform at the Rose.[205] The warrant issued by the Council
in reply to this second petition tells us for the first time something definite about the Newington
Butts Theatre:

     To the Justices, Bailiffs, Constables, and Others to Whom it
     Shall Appertain:

     Whereas not long since, upon some considerations, we did
     restrain the Lord Strange his servants from playing at the
     Rose on the Bankside, and enjoyned them to play three days
     [a week] at Newington Butts; now forasmuch as we are
     satisfied that by reason of the tediousness of the way, and
     that of long time plays have not there been used on working
     days, and for that a number of poor watermen are thereby
     relieved, you shall permit and suffer them, or any other,
     there [at the Rose] to exercise themselves in such sort as
     they have done heretofore, and that the Rose may be at
     liberty without any restraint so long as it shall be free
     from infection, any commandment from us heretofore to the
     contrary notwithstanding.[206]

[Footnote 204: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, II, 50, 73.]

[Footnote 205: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 42.]

[Footnote 206: Ibid., pp. 43-44.]

From this warrant we learn that so early as 1592 the Newington house was almost deserted, and
that "of long time" plays had been given there only occasionally.

Two years later, on June 3, 1594, Henslowe sent the Admiral's and the Chamberlain's Men to
play temporarily at the half-deserted old playhouse, probably in order to give opportunity
for needed repairs at the Rose.[207] The section of his Diary, under the heading, "In the name
of god Amen begininge at newington my Lord Admeralle men & my Lord Chamberlen men As followethe
1594," constitutes the fullest and clearest--and, one may add, the most illustrious--chapter
in the history of this obscure building; for although it extends over only ten days, it tells
us that Edward Alleyn, Richard Burbage, and William Shakespeare then trod the Newington stage,
and it records the performance there of such plays as The Jew of Malta, Andronicus, The Taming
of a Shrew, and Hamlet.

[Footnote 207: There is no evidence that Henslowe owned the house at Newington; he might very
well have rented it for this particular occasion.]

We next hear of the building near the end of the century: in 1599, says Mr. Wallace, it was
"only a memory, as shown by a contemporary record to be published later."[208]

[Footnote 208: Wallace, The First London Theatre, p. 2.]

Two other references close the history. In A Woman is a Weathercock, III, iii, printed in 1612,
but written earlier, one of the actors exclaims of an insufferable pun: "O Newington Conceit!"
The fact that this sneer is the only reference to the Newington Playhouse found in contemporary
literature is a commentary on the low esteem in which the building was held by the Elizabethans,
and its relative unimportance for the history of the drama.

The last notice is in Howe's continuation of Stow's Annals (1631).[209] After enumerating all
the theatres built in London and the suburbs "within the space of three-score years," he adds
vaguely, "besides one in former time at Newington Butts."

[Footnote 209: Page 1004.]

CHAPTER IX

THE ROSE

Doubtless one reason for the obscure rôle which the theatre at Newington played in the history
of the drama was "the tediousness of the way" thither. The Rose, the second theatre to make
its appearance in Surrey, was much more conveniently situated with respect to the city, for
it was erected in the Liberty of the Clink and very near the river's edge. As a result, it
quickly attained popularity with London playgoers, and before the end of the century had caused
the centre of dramatic activity to be shifted from Finsbury Field to the Bank.

The builder of the Rose was one Philip Henslowe, then, so far as our evidence goes, unknown
to the dramatic world, but destined soon to become the greatest theatrical proprietor and manager
of the Tudor-Stuart age. We find him living on the Bankside and in the Liberty of the Clink
at least as early as 1577. At first, so we are told, he was "but a poor man," described as
"servant ... unto one Mr. Woodward." Upon the death of his employer, Woodward, he married the
widow, Agnes Woodward, and thus came into the possession of considerable property. "All his
wealth came by her," swore the charwoman Joan Horton. This, however, simply means that Henslowe
obtained his original capital by his marriage; for, although very illiterate, he was shrewd
in handling money, and he quickly amassed "his wealth" through innumerable business ventures.

As one of these ventures, no doubt, he leased from the Parish of St. Mildred, on March 24,
1585, a small piece of property on the Bankside known as "The Little Rose." "Among the early
surveys, 1 Edward VI," says Rendle, "we see that this was not merely a name--the place was
a veritable Rose Garden."[210] At the time of the lease the property is described as consisting
of a dwelling-house called "The Rose," "two gardens adjoining the same" consisting of "void
ground," and at least one other small building. The dwelling-house Henslowe probably leased
as a brothel--for this was the district of the stews; and the small building mentioned above,
situated at the south end of one of the gardens, he let to a London grocer named John Cholmley,
who used it "to keep victualing in."[211]

[Footnote 210: W. Rendle, in The Antiquarian Magazine and Bibliographer, VIII, 60.]

[Footnote 211: For the earlier history of the Rose estate see Rendle, The Bankside, p. xv,
and Greg, Henslowe's Diary, II, 43. "The plan of the Rose estate in the vestry of St. Mildred's
Church in London marks the estate exactly, but not the precise site of the Rose Playhouse.
The estate consisted of three rods, and was east of Rose Alley." (Rendle, The Bankside, p. xxx.)]

Not satisfied, however, with the income from these two buildings, Henslowe a year and a half
later was planning to utilize a part of the "void ground" for the erection of a theatre. What
interested him in the drama we do not know, but we may suppose that the same reason which led
Burbage, Brayne, Lanman, and others to build playhouses influenced him, namely, the prospect
of "great gains to ensue therefrom."[212]

[Footnote 212: Possibly the fact that Burbage had just secured control of the Curtain, and
hence had a monopoly of playhouses, was one of the reasons for a new playhouse.]

For the site of his proposed playhouse he allotted a small parcel of ground ninety-four feet
square and lying in the corner formed by Rose Alley and Maiden Lane (see page 245). Then he
interested in the enterprise his tenant Cholmley, for, it seems, he did not wish to undertake
so expensive and precarious a venture without sharing the risk with another. On January 10,
1587, he and Cholmley signed a formal deed of partnership, according to which the playhouse
was to be erected at once and at the sole cost of Henslowe; Cholmley, however, was to have
from the beginning a half-interest in the building, paying for his share by installments of
£25 10s. a quarter for a period of eight years and three months.[213] The total sum to be paid
by Cholmley, £816, possibly represents the estimated cost of the building and its full equipment,
plus rental on the land.

[Footnote 213: The deed of partnership is preserved among the Henslowe papers at Dulwich College.
For an abstract of the deed see Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 2. Henslowe seems to have driven
a good bargain with Cholmley.]

The building is referred to in the deed of January 10 as "a playhouse now in framing and shortly
to be erected and set up." Doubtless it was ready for occupancy early in the summer. That performances
were given there before the close of the year is at least indicated by an order of the Privy
Council dated October 29, 1587:

     A letter to the Justices of Surrey, that whereas the
     inhabitants of Southwark had complained unto their Lordships
     declaring that the order by their Lordships set down for the
     restraining of plays and interludes within that county on
     the Sabbath Days is not observed, and especially within the
     Liberty of the Clink, and in the Parish of St.
     Saviours....[214]

[Footnote 214: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XV, 271.]

The Rose was in "the Liberty of the Clink and in the Parish of St. Saviours," and so far as
we have any evidence it was the only place there devoted to plays. Moreover, a distinct reference
to it by name appears in the Sewer Records in April, 1588, at which date the building is described
as "new."[215]

[Footnote 215: Discovered by Mr. Wallace and printed in the London Times, April 30, 1914.]

In Norden's Map of London (1593), the Rose and the adjacent Bear Garden are correctly placed
with respect to each other, but are crudely drawn (see page 147). The representation of both
as circular--the Bear Garden, we know, was polygonal--was due merely to this crudeness; yet
the Rose seems to have been indeed circular in shape, "the Bankside's round-house" referred
to in Tom Tell Troth's Message. The building is again pictured as circular, with the Bear Garden
at the left and the Globe at the right, in the Delaram portrait of King James (opposite page
246).[216]

[Footnote 216: The circular building pictured in these maps has been widely heralded as the
First Globe, but without reason; all the evidence shows that it was the Rose. For further discussion
see the chapters dealing with the Bear Garden, the Globe, and the Hope. In the Merian View,
issued in Frankfort in 1638, the Bear Garden and the Globe, each named, are shown conspicuously
in the foreground; in the background is vaguely represented an unnamed playhouse polygonal
in shape. This could not possibly be the Rose. Merian's View was a compilation from Visscher's
View of 1616 and some other view of London not yet identified; it has no independent authority,
and no value whatever so far as the Rose is concerned.]

From Henslowe's Diary we learn that the playhouse was of timber, the exterior of lath and plaster,
the roof of thatch; and that it had a yard, galleries, a stage, a tiring-house, heavens, and
a flagpole. Thus it differed in no essential way from the playhouses already erected in Shoreditch
or subsequently erected on the Bank.[217]

[Footnote 217: If we may believe Johannes de Witt, the Rose was "more magnificent" than the
theatres in Shoreditch. See page 167.]

What troupes of actors used the Rose during the first five years of its existence we do not
know; indeed, until 1592 we hear nothing further of the playhouse. As a result, some scholars
have wrongly inferred that the building was not erected until the spring of 1592.[218] It seems
likely, as Mr. Greg suggests, that Henslowe and Cholmley let the house to some company of players
at a stipulated annual rent, and so had nothing to do with the management of its finances.
This would explain the complete absence of references to the playhouse in Henslowe's accounts.

[Footnote 218: Ordish, Early London Theatres, p. 155; Mantzius, A History of Theatrical Art,
p. 58. Mr. Wallace's discovery of a reference to the Rose in the Sewer Records for April, 1588,
quite overthrows this hypothesis.]

During this obscure period of five years Cholmley disappears from the history of the Rose.
It may be that he withdrew from the undertaking at the outset;[219] it may be that he failed
to meet his payments, and so forfeited his moiety; or it may be that, becoming dissatisfied
with his bargain, he sold out to Henslowe. Whatever the cause, his interest in the playhouse
passed over to Henslowe, who appears henceforth as the sole proprietor.

[Footnote 219: This seems unlikely. At the beginning of Henslowe's Diary we find the scrawl
"Chomley when" (Greg, Henslowe's Diary I, 217); this was written not earlier than 1592, and
it shows that Cholmley was at that time in Henslowe's mind.]

ologia (1620), from a lost map of London drawn about 1589-1599.]

In the spring of 1592 the building was in need of repairs, and Henslowe spent a large sum of
money in thoroughly overhauling it.[220] The lathing and plastering of the exterior were done
over, the roof was re-thatched, new rafters were put in, and much heavy timber was used, indicating
important structural alterations. In addition, the stage was painted, the lord's room and the
tiring-house were provided with ceilings, a new flagpole was erected, and other improvements
were introduced. Clearly an attempt was made to render the building not only stronger, but
also more attractive in appearance and more modern in equipment.

[Footnote 220: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 7.]

The immediate occasion for these extensive alterations and repairs was the engagement of Lord
Strange's Men to occupy the playhouse under Henslowe's management. This excellent troupe, with
Edward Alleyn at its head, was perhaps the best company of actors then in London. It later
became the Lord Chamberlain's Company, with which Shakespeare was identified; even at this
early date, although documentary proof is lacking, he may have been numbered among its obscure
members. The troupe opened the Rose on February 19, 1592, with a performance of Robert Greene's
Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay, and followed this with many famous plays, such as The Spanish
Tragedy, The Jew of Malta, Orlando Furioso, and Henry VI.[221]

[Footnote 221: For a list of their plays see Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 13 ff.]

The coming of Lord Strange's Men to the Rose led to a close friendship between Henslowe and
Edward Alleyn, then twenty-six years of age, and at the height of his fame as an actor, a friendship
which was cemented in the autumn by Alleyn's marriage to Henslowe's stepdaughter (and only
child) Joan Woodward. The two men, it seems, were thoroughly congenial, and their common interests
led to the formation of a business partnership which soon became the most important single
force in the theatrical life of the time.

Lord Strange's Men continued to act at the Rose from February 19 until June 23, 1592, when
the Privy Council, because of a serious riot in Southwark, ordered the closing of all playhouses
in and about London until Michaelmas following. Strange's Men very soon petitioned the Council
to be allowed to reopen their playhouse; the Council, in reply, compromised by granting them
permission to act three days a week at Newington Butts. This, however, did not please the actors,
and they started on a tour of the provinces. In a short time, discovering that they could not
pay their expenses on the road, they again petitioned for permission to open the Rose, complaining
that "our company is great, and thereby our charge intolerable in traveling the country," and
calling attention to the fact that "the use of our playhouse on the Bankside, by reason of
the passage to and from the same by water, is a great relief to the poor watermen there."[222]
The petition was accompanied by a supporting petition from the watermen asking the Council
"for God's sake and in the way of charity to respect us your poor watermen." As a result of
these petitions the Council gave permission, probably late in August, 1592, for the reopening
of the playhouse.[223] But before Strange's Men could take advantage of this permission, a
severe outbreak of the plague caused a general inhibition of acting, and not until December
29, 1592, were they able to resume their performances at the Rose. A month later the plague
broke out again with unusual severity, and on February 1, 1593, playing was again inhibited.
The year rapidly developed into one of the worst plague-years in the history of the city; between
ten and fifteen thousand persons died of the epidemic, and most of the London companies, including
Strange's Men, went on an extended tour of the country.

[Footnote 222: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 42.]

[Footnote 223: See Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 43. For a general discussion of various problems
involved, see Greg, Henslowe's Diary, II, 51-2.]

Near the close of the year, and while Strange's Men were still traveling, the plague temporarily
subsided, and Sussex's Men, who were then in London, secured the use of the Rose. They began
to act there on December 27, 1593; but on February 6, 1594, the plague having again become
threatening, acting was once more inhibited. This brief occupation of the Rose by Sussex's
Men was notable only for the first performance of Titus Andronicus.[224]

[Footnote 224: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 16.]

At Easter, April 1, Strange's Men being still absent, Henslowe allowed the Rose to be used
for eight days by "the Queen's Men and my Lord of Sussex's together." This second brief chapter
in the long and varied history of the playhouse is interesting only for two performances of
the old King Leir.[225]

[Footnote 225: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 17.]

As a result of the severe plague and the long continued inhibition of acting, there was a general
confusion and subsequent reorganization of the various London troupes. The Admiral's Men, who
had been dispersed in 1591, some joining Strange's Men, some going to travel in Germany, were
brought together again; and Edward Alleyn, who had formerly been their leader, and who even
after he became one of Strange's Men continued to describe himself as "servant to the right
honorable the Lord Admiral,"[226] was induced to rejoin them. Alleyn thereupon brought them
to the Rose, where they began to perform on May 14, 1594. After three days, however, they ceased,
probably to allow Henslowe to make repairs or improvements on the building.

[Footnote 226: He is so described, for example, in the warrant issued by the Privy Council
on May 6, 1593, to Strange's Men.]

Strange's Men also had undergone reorganization. On April 16, 1594, they lost by death their
patron, the Earl of Derby. Shortly afterwards they secured the patronage of the Lord Chamberlain,
and before June 3, 1594, they had arrived in London and reported to their former manager, Henslowe.

At this time, apparently, the Rose was still undergoing repairs; so Henslowe sent both the
Admiral's and the Chamberlain's Men to act at Newington Butts, where they remained from June
3 to June 13, 1594. On June 15 the Admiral's Men moved back to the Rose, which henceforth they
occupied alone; and the Chamberlain's Men, thus robbed of their playhouse, went to the Theatre
in Shoreditch.

During the period of Lent, 1595, Henslowe took occasion to make further repairs on his playhouse,
putting in new pales, patching the exterior with new lath and plaster, repainting the woodwork,
and otherwise furbishing up the building. The total cost of this work was £108 10s. And shortly
after, as a part of these improvements, no doubt, he paid £7 2s. for "making the throne in
the heavens."[227]

[Footnote 227: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 4.]

Near the close of July, 1597, Pembroke's Men at the Swan acted Nashe's satirical play, The
Isle of Dogs, containing, it seems, a burlesque on certain persons high in authority. As a
result the Privy Council on July 28 ordered all acting in and about London to cease until November
1, and all public playhouses to be plucked down and ruined.[228]

[Footnote 228: For the details of this episode see the chapter on the Swan.]

The latter part of the order, happily, was not put into effect, and on October 11 the Rose
was allowed to open again. The Privy Council, however, punished the Swan and Pembroke's Company
by ordering that only the Admiral's Men at the Rose and the Chamberlain's Men at the Curtain
should henceforth be "allowed." As a consequence of this trouble with the authorities the best
actors of Pembroke's Company joined the Admiral's Men under Henslowe. This explains the entry
in the Diary: "In the name of God, amen. The xi of October began my Lord Admiral's and my Lord
Pembroke's Men to play at my house, 1597."[229] The two companies were very soon amalgamated,
and the strong troupe thus formed continued to act at the Rose under the name of the Admiral's Men.

[Footnote 229: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 54.]

The Chamberlain's Men, who in 1594 had been forced to surrender the Rose to the Admiral's Men
and move to the Theatre, and who in 1597 had been driven from the Theatre to the Curtain, at
last, in 1599, built for themselves a permanent home, the Globe, situated on the Bankside and
close to the Rose. Henslowe's ancient structure[230] was eclipsed by this new and handsome
building, "the glory of the Bank"; and the Admiral's Men, no doubt, felt themselves placed
at a serious disadvantage. As a result, in the spring of 1600, Henslowe and Alleyn began the
erection of a splendid new playhouse, the Fortune, designed to surpass the Globe in magnificence,
and to furnish a suitable and permanent home for the Admiral's Men. The building was situated
in the suburb to the north of the city, far away from the Bankside and the Globe.

[Footnote 230: In January, 1600, the Earl of Nottingham refers to "the dangerous decay" of
the Rose. See Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 45; cf. p. 52.]

The erection of this handsome new playhouse led to violent outbursts from the Puritans, and
vigorous protests from the city fathers. Accordingly the Privy Council on June 22, 1600, issued
the following order:[231]

     Whereas divers complaints have heretofore been made unto the
     Lords and other of Her Majesty's Privy Council of the
     manifold abuses and disorders that have grown and do
     continue by occasion of many houses erected and employed in
     and about London for common stage-plays; and now very lately
     by reason of some complaint exhibited by sundry persons
     against the building of the like house [the Fortune] in or
     near Golding Lane ... the Lords and the rest of Her
     Majesty's Privy Council with one and full consent have
     ordered in manner and form as follows. First, that there
     shall be about the city two houses, and no more, allowed to
     serve for the use of the common stage-plays; of the which
     houses, one [the Globe] shall be in Surrey, in that place
     which is commonly called the Bankside, or thereabouts; and
     the other [the Fortune], in Middlesex.

[Footnote 231: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXX, 395.]

This sealed the fate of the Rose.

In July the Admiral's Men had a reckoning with Henslowe, and prepared to abandon the Bankside.
After they had gone, but before they had opened the Fortune, Henslowe, on October 28, 1600,
let the Rose to Pembroke's Men for two days.[232] Possibly the troupe had secured special permission
to use the playhouse for this limited time; possibly Henslowe thought that since the Fortune
was not yet open to the public, no objection would be made. Of course, after the Admiral's
Men opened the Fortune--in November or early in December, 1600--the Rose, according to the
order of the Privy Council just quoted, had to stand empty.

[Footnote 232: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 131.]

Its career, however, was not absolutely run. In the spring of 1602 Worcester's Men and Oxford's
Men were "joined by agreement together in one company," and the Queen, "at the suit of the
Earl of Oxford," ordered that this company be "allowed." In Henslowe's Diary, we read: "Lent
unto my Lord of Worcester's Players as followeth, beginning the 17 day of August, 1602."

[Footnote 233: The Remembrancia, II, 189; The Malone Society's Collections, I, 85.]

This excellent company, destined to become the Queen's Company after the accession of King
James, included such important actors as William Kempe, John Lowin, Christopher Beeston, John
Duke, Robert Pallant, and Richard Perkins; and it employed such well-known playwrights as Thomas
Heywood (the "prose Shakespeare," who was also one of the troupe), Henry Chettle, Thomas Dekker,
John Day, Wentworth Smith, Richard Hathway, and John Webster. The company continued to act
at the Rose until March 16, 1603, when it had a reckoning with Henslowe and left the playhouse.[234]
In May, however, after the coming of King James, it returned to the Rose, and we find Henslowe
opening a new account: "In the name of God, amen. Beginning to play again by the King's license,
and laid out since for my Lord of Worcester's Men, as followeth, 1603, 9 of May."[235] Since
only one entry follows, it is probable that the company did not remain long at the Rose. No
doubt, the outbreak of the plague quickly drove them into the country; and on their return
to London in the spring of 1604 they occupied the Boar's Head and the Curtain.

[Footnote 234: On March 19 the Privy Council formally ordered the suppression of all plays.
This was five days before the death of Queen Elizabeth.]

[Footnote 235: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 190.]

After this there is no evidence to connect the playhouse with dramatic performances.

Henslowe's lease of the Little Rose property, on which his playhouse stood, expired in 1605,
and the Parish of St. Mildred's demanded an increase in rental. The following note in the Diary
refers to a renewal of the lease:

     Memorandum, that the 25 of June, 1603, I talked with Mr.
     Pope at the scrivener's shop where he lies,[236] concerning
     the taking of the lease anew of the little Rose, and he
     shewed me a writing betwixt the parish and himself which
     was to pay twenty pound a year rent,[237] and to bestow a
     hundred marks upon building, which I said I would rather
     pull down the playhouse than I would do so, and he bad me
     do, and said he gave me leave, and would bear me out, for it
     was in him to do it.[238]

[Footnote 236: Some scholars have supposed that this was Morgan Pope, a part owner of the Bear
Garden; but he is last heard of in 1585, and by 1605 was probably dead. Mr. Greg is of the
opinion that Thomas Pope, the well-known member of the King's Men at the Globe, is referred
to. From this has been developed the theory that Pope, acting for the Globe players, had rented
the Rose and closed it in order to prevent competition with the Globe on the Bankside. I believe,
however, that the "Mr. Pope" here referred to was neither of these men, but merely the agent
of the Parish of St. Mildred. It is said that he lived at a scrivener's shop. This could not
apply to the actor Thomas Pope, for we learn from his will, made less than a month later, that
he lived in a house of his own, furnished with plate and household goods, and cared for by
a housekeeper; and with him lived Susan Gasquine, whom he had "brought up ever since she was
born."]

[Footnote 237: The old rental was £7 a year.]

[Footnote 238: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 178.]

Henslowe did not renew his lease of the property. On October 4, 1605, the Commissioners of
the Sewers amerced him for the Rose, but return was made that it was then "out of his hands."[239]
From a later entry in the Sewer Records, February 14, 1606, we learn that the new owner of
the Rose was one Edward Box, of Bread Street, London. Box, it seems, either tore down the building,
or converted it into tenements. The last reference to it in the Sewer Records is on April 25,
1606, when it is referred to as "the late playhouse."[240]

[Footnote 239: Wallace in the London Times, April 30, 1914, p. 10. In view of these records
it seems unnecessary to refute those persons who assert that the Rose was standing so late
as 1622. I may add, however, that before Mr. Wallace published the Sewer Records I had successfully
disposed of all the evidence which has been collected to show the existence of the Rose after
1605. The chief source of this error is a footnote by Malone in Variorum, III, 56; the source
of Malone's error is probably to be seen in his footnote, ibid., p. 66.]

[Footnote 240: For the tourist the memory of the old playhouse to-day lingers about Rose Alley
on the Bank.]

CHAPTER X

THE SWAN

The Manor of Paris Garden,[241] situated on the Bankside just to the west of the Liberty of
the Clink and to the east of the Lambeth marshes, had once been in the possession of the Monastery
of Bermondsey. At the dissolution of the monasteries by Henry VIII, the property passed into
the possession of the Crown; hence it was free from the jurisdiction of the Lord Mayor and
Aldermen of London, and was on this account suitable for the erection of a playhouse. From
the Crown the property passed through several hands, until finally, in 1589, the entire "lordship
and manor of Paris Garden" was sold for £850 to Francis Langley, goldsmith and citizen of London.[242]

[Footnote 241: Or "Parish Garden." See the note on page 121.]

[Footnote 242: The sale took the form of a lease for one thousand years.]

Langley had purchased the Manor as an investment, and was ready to make thereon such improvements
as seemed to offer profitable returns. Burbage and Henslowe were reputed to be growing wealthy
from their playhouses, and Langley was tempted to erect a similar building on his newly acquired
property. Accordingly at some date before November, 1594, he secured a license to erect a theatre
in Paris Garden. The license was promptly opposed by the Lord Mayor of London, who addressed
to the Lord High Treasurer on November 3, 1594, the following letter:

     I understand that one Francis Langley ... intendeth to erect
     a new stage or theatre (as they call it) for the exercising
     of plays upon the Bankside. And forasmuch as we find by
     daily experience the great inconvenience that groweth to
     this city and the government thereof by the said plays, I
     have emboldened myself to be an humble suitor to your good
     Lordship to be a means for us rather to suppress all such
     places built for that kind of exercise, than to erect any
     more of the same sort.[243]

[Footnote 243: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 74-76.]

The protest of the Lord Mayor, however, went unheeded, and Langley proceeded with the erection
of his building. Presumably it was finished and ready for the actors in the earlier half of 1595.

The name given to the new playhouse was "The Swan." What caused Langley to adopt this name
we do not know;[244] but we may suppose that it was suggested to him by the large number of
swans which beautified the Thames. Foreigners on their first visit to London were usually very
much impressed by the number and the beauty of these birds. Hentzner, in 1598, stated that
the river "abounds in swans, swimming in flocks; the sight of them and their noise is vastly
agreeable to the boats that meet them in their course"; and the Italian Francesco Ferretti
observed that the "broad river of Thames" was "most charming, and quite full of swans white
as the very snow."[245]

[Footnote 244: The swan was not uncommon as a sign, especially along the river; for example,
it was the sign of one of the famous brothels on the Bankside, as Stow informs us.]

[Footnote 245: Quoted in Rye, England as Seen by Foreigners, p. 183.]

From a map of the Manor of Paris Garden carefully surveyed by order of the King in 1627[246]
(see page 163), we learn the exact situation of the building. It was set twenty-six poles,
or four hundred and twenty-six feet, from the bank of the river, in that corner of the estate
nearest London Bridge. Most of the playgoers from London, however, came not over the Bridge,
but by water, landing at the Paris Garden Stairs, or at the near-by Falcon Stairs, and then
walking the short distance to the theatre.

[Footnote 246: Reproduced by Rendle, The Bankside, Southwark, and the Globe Playhouse.]

An excellent picture of the exterior of the Swan is furnished by Visscher's View of London,
1616, (see page 165). From this, as well as from the survey of 1627 just mentioned, we discover
that the building was duodecahedral--at least on the outside, for the interior probably was
circular. At the time of its erection it was, so we are told, "the largest and the most magnificent
playhouse" in London. It contained three galleries surrounding an open pit, with a stage projecting
into the pit; and probably it differed in no essential respect from the playhouses already
built. In one point, however, it may have differed--although of this I cannot feel sure: it
may have been provided with a stage that could be removed so as to allow the building to be
used on occasions for animal-baiting. The De Witt drawing shows such a stage; and possibly
Stow in his Survey (1598) gives evidence that the Swan was in early times employed for bear-baiting:

     And to begin at the west bank as afore, thus it followeth.
     On this bank is the bear gardens, in number twain; to wit,
     the old bear garden [i.e., the one built in 1583?] and the
     new [i.e., the Swan?], places wherein be kept bears, bulls,
     and other beasts, to be baited at stakes for pleasure; also
     mastiffs to bait them in several kennels are there
     nourished.[247]

[Footnote 247: Stow's original manuscript (Harl. MSS., 544), quoted by Collier, History of
English Dramatic Poetry (1879), III, 96, note 3. The text of the edition of 1598 differs very
slightly.]

Moreover, in 1613 Henslowe used the Swan as the model for the Hope, a building designed for
both acting and animal-baiting. It should be noted, however, that in all documents the Swan
is invariably referred to as a playhouse, and there is no evidence--beyond that cited above--to
indicate that the building was ever employed for the baiting of bears and bulls.

In the summer of 1596 a Dutch traveler named Johannes de Witt, a priest of St. Mary's in Utrecht,
visited London, and saw, as one of the most interesting sights of the city, a dramatic performance
at the Swan. Later he communicated a description of the building to his friend Arend van Buchell,[248]
who recorded the description in his commonplace-book, along with a crude and inexact drawing
of the interior (see page 169), showing the stage, the three galleries, and the pit.[249] The
description is headed: "Ex Observationibus Londinensibus Johannis de Witt." After a brief notice
of St. Paul's, and a briefer reference to Westminster Cathedral, the traveler begins to describe
what obviously interested him far more. I give below a translation of that portion relating
to the playhouses:

     There are four amphitheatres in London [the Theatre,
     Curtain, Rose, and Swan] of notable beauty, which from their
     diverse signs bear diverse names. In each of them a
     different play is daily exhibited to the populace. The two
     more magnificent of these are situated to the southward
     beyond the Thames, and from the signs suspended before them
     are called the Rose and the Swan. The two others are outside
     the city towards the north on the highway which issues
     through the Episcopal Gate, called in the vernacular
     Bishopgate.[250] There is also a fifth [the Bear Garden],
     but of dissimilar structure, devoted to the baiting of
     beasts, where are maintained in separate cages and
     enclosures many bears and dogs of stupendous size, which are
     kept for fighting, furnishing thereby a most delightful
     spectacle to men. Of all the theatres,[251] however, the
     largest and the most magnificent is that one of which the
     sign is a swan, called in the vernacular the Swan
     Theatre;[252] for it accommodates in its seats three
     thousand persons, and is built of a mass of flint stones (of
     which there is a prodigious supply in Britain),[253] and
     supported by wooden columns painted in such excellent
     imitation of marble that it is able to deceive even the most
     cunning. Since its form resembles that of a Roman work, I
     have made a sketch of it above.

[Footnote 248: Apparently he allowed Van Buchell to transcribe the description and the rough
pen-sketch from his notebook or traveler's diary.]

[Footnote 249: This interesting document was discovered by Dr. Karl T. Gaedertz, and published
in full in Zur Kenntnis der altenglischen Bühne (Bremen, 1888).]

[Footnote 250: "Viâ quâ itur per Episcopalem portam vulgariter Biscopgate nuncupatam."]

[Footnote 251: "Theatrorum."]

[Footnote 252: "Id cuius intersignium est cygnus (vulgo te theatre off te cijn)." Mr. Wallace
proposes to emend the last clause to read: "te theatre off te cijn off te Swan," thus making
"cijn" mean "sign"; but is not this Flemish, and does not "cijn" mean "Swan"?]

[Footnote 253: It is commonly thought that De Witt was wrong in stating that the Swan was built
of flint stones. Possibly the plaster exterior deceived him; or possibly in his memory he confused
this detail of the building with the exterior of the church of St. Mary Overies, which was
indeed built of "a mass of flint stones." On the other hand, the long life of the building
after it had ceased to be of use might indicate that it was built of stones.]

Exactly when the Swan was opened to the public, or what troupes of actors first made use of
it, we do not know. The visit of Johannes de Witt, however, shows that the playhouse was occupied
in 1596; and this fact is confirmed by a statement in the lawsuit of Shaw v. Langley.[254]
We may reasonably suppose that not only in 1596, but also in 1595 the building was used by
the players.

[Footnote 254: Discovered by Mr. Wallace and printed in Englische Studien (1911), XLIII, 340-95.
These documents have done much to clear up the history of the Swan and the Rose in the year 1597.]

Our definite history of the Swan, however, begins with 1597. In February of that year eight
distinguished actors, among whom were Robert Shaw, Richard Jones, Gabriel Spencer, William
Bird, and Thomas Downton, "servants to the right honorable the Earl of Pembroke," entered into
negotiations with Langley, or, as the legal document puts it, "fell into conference with the
said Langley for and about the hireing and taking a playhouse of the said Langley, situate
in the old Paris Garden, in the Parish of St. Saviours, in the County of Surrey, commonly called
and known by the name of the sign of the Swan." The result of this conference was that the
members of Pembroke's Company[255] became each severally bound for the sum of £100 to play
at the Swan for one year, beginning on February 21, 1597.

[Footnote 255: I cannot agree with Mr. Wallace that Langley induced these players to desert
Henslowe, secured for them the patronage of Pembroke, and thus was himself responsible for
the organization of the Pembroke Company.]

This troupe contained some of the best actors in London; and Langley, in anticipation of a
successful year, "disbursed and laid out for making of the said house ready, and providing
of apparel fit and necessary for their playing, the sum of £300 and upwards." Since he was
at very little cost in making the Swan ready, "for the said house was then lately afore used
to have plays in it," most of this sum went for the purchase of "sundry sort of rich attire
and apparel for them to play withall."

Everything seems to have gone well until near the end of July, when the company presented The
Isle of Dogs, a satirical play written in part by the "young Juvenal" of the age, Thomas Nashe,
and in part by certain "inferior players," chief of whom seems to have been Ben Jonson.[256]
The play apparently attacked under a thin disguise some persons high in authority. The exact
nature of the offense cannot now be determined, but Nashe himself informs us that "the troublesome
stir which happened about it is a general rumour that hath filled all England,"[257] and the
Queen herself seems to have been greatly angered. On July 28, 1597, the Privy Council sent
a letter to the Justices of Middlesex and of Surrey informing them that Her Majesty "hath given
direction that not only no plays shall be used within London or about the city or in any public
place during this time of summer, but that also those playhouses that are erected and built
only for such purposes shall be plucked down." Accordingly the Council ordered the Justices
to see to it that "there be no more plays used in any public place within three miles of the
city until Allhallows [i.e., November 1] next"; and, furthermore, to send for the owners of
the various playhouses "and enjoin them by vertue hereof forthwith to pluck down quite the
stages, galleries, and rooms that are made for people to stand in, and so to deface the same
as they may not be employed again to such use."[258]

[Footnote 256: For an account of The Isle of Dogs see E.K. Chambers, Modern Language Review
(1909), IV, 407, 511; R.B. McKerrow, The Works of Thomas Nashe, V, 29; and especially the important
article by Mr. Wallace in Englische Studien already referred to.]

[Footnote 257: Nashes Lenten Stuffe (1599), ed. McKerrow, III, 153.]

[Footnote 258: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXVII, 313. Possibly the other public playhouses
were suppressed along with the Swan in response to the petition presented to the Council on
July 28, (i.e. on the same day) by the Lord Mayor and Aldermen requesting the "final suppressing
of the said stage plays, as well at the Theatre, Curtain, and Bankside as in all other places
in and about the city." See The Malone Society's Collections, I, 78.]

The Council, however, did not stop with this. It ordered the arrest of the authors of the play
and also of the chief actors who took part in its performance. Nashe saved himself by precipitate
flight, but his lodgings were searched and his private papers were turned over to the authorities.
Robert Shaw and Gabriel Spencer, as leaders of the troupe, and Ben Jonson, as one of the "inferior
players" who had a part in writing the play,[259] were thrown into prison. The rest of the
company hurried into the country, their speed being indicated by the fact that we find them
acting in Bristol before the end of July.

[Footnote 259: In a marginal gloss to Nashes Lenten Stuffe (1599), ed. McKerrow, III, 154,
Nashe says: "I having begun but the induction and first act of it, the other four acts without
my consent or the best guess of my drift or scope, by the players were supplied, which bred
both their trouble and mine too."]

Some of these events are referred to in the following letter, addressed by the Privy Council
"to Richard Topclyfe, Thomas Fowler, and Richard Skevington, esquires, Doctor Fletcher, and
Mr. Wilbraham":

     Upon information given us of a lewd play that was played in
     one of the playhouses on the Bankside, containing very
     seditious and slanderous matter, we caused some of the
     players [Robert Shaw, Gabriel Spencer, and Ben Jonson[260]]
     to be apprehended and committed to prison, whereof one of
     them [Ben Jonson] was not only an actor but a maker of part
     of the said play. Forasmuch as it is thought meet that the
     rest of the players or actors in that matter shall be
     apprehended to receive such punishment as their lewd and
     mutinous behaviour doth deserve, these shall be therefore to
     require you to examine those of the players that are
     committed (whose names are known to you, Mr. Topclyfe), what
     is become of the rest of their fellows that either had their
     parts in the devising of that seditious matter, or that were
     actors or players in the same, what copies they have given
     forth[261] of the said play, and to whom, and such other
     points as you shall think meet to be demanded of them,
     wherein you shall require them to deal truly, as they will
     look to receive any favour. We pray you also to peruse such
     papers as were found in Nashe his lodgings, which Ferrys, a
     messenger of the Chamber, shall deliver unto you, and to
     certify us the examinations you take.[262]

[Footnote 260: The identity of the three players is revealed in an order of the Privy Council
dated October 8, 1597: "A warrant to the Keeper of the Marshalsea to release Gabriel Spencer
and Robert Shaw, stage-players, out of prison, who were of late committed to his custody. The
like warrant for the releasing of Benjamin Jonson." (Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXVIII,
33.)]

[Footnote 261: Such a copy was formerly preserved in a volume of miscellaneous manuscripts
at Alnwick Castle, but has not come down to modern times. See F.J. Burgoyne, Northumberland
Manuscripts (London, 1904).]

[Footnote 262: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXVII, 338.]

This unfortunate occurrence destroyed Langley's dream of a successful year. It also destroyed
the splendid Pembroke organization, for several of its chief members, even before the inhibition
was raised, joined the Admiral's Men. On August 6 Richard Jones went to Henslowe and bound
himself to play for two years at the Rose, and at the same time he bound his friend Robert
Shaw, who was still in prison; on August 10 William Bird came and made a similar agreement;
on October 6 Thomas Downton did likewise. Their leader, Gabriel Spencer, also probably had
an understanding with Henslowe, although he signed no bond; and upon his release from the Marshalsea
he joined his friends at the Rose.[263]

[Footnote 263: Langley sued these actors on their bond to him of £100 to play only at the Swan;
see the documents printed by Mr. Wallace. Ben Jonson also joined Henslowe's forces at the Rose,
as did Anthony and Humphrey Jeffes, who were doubtless members of the Pembroke Company.]

In the meantime the Queen's anger was abating, and the trouble was blowing over. The order
to pluck down all the public playhouses was not taken seriously by the officers of the law,
and Henslowe actually secured permission to reopen the Rose on October 11. The inhibition itself
expired on November 1, but the Swan was singled out for further punishment. The Privy Council
ordered that henceforth license should be granted to two companies only: namely, the Admiral's
at the Rose, and the Chamberlain's at the Curtain. This meant, of course, the closing of the Swan.

In spite of this order, however, the members of Pembroke's Company remaining after the chief
actors had joined Henslowe, taking on recruits and organizing themselves into a company, began
to act at the Swan without a license. For some time they continued unmolested, but at last
the two licensed companies called the attention of the Privy Council to the fact, and on February
19, 1598, the Council issued the following order to the Master of the Revels and the Justices
of both Middlesex and Surrey:

     Whereas license hath been granted unto two companies of
     stage players retayned unto us, the Lord Admiral and Lord
     Chamberlain ... and whereas there is also a third company
     who of late (as we are informed) have by way of intrusion
     used likewise to play ... we have therefore thought good to
     require you upon receipt hereof to take order that the
     aforesaid third company may be suppressed, and none suffered
     hereafter to play but those two formerly named, belonging to
     us, the Lord Admiral and Lord Chamberlain.[264]

[Footnote 264: Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXVIII, 327.]

Thus, after February 19, 1598, the Swan stood empty, so far as plays were concerned, and we
hear very little of it during the next few years. Indeed, it never again assumed an important
part in the history of the drama.

In the summer of 1598[265] it was used by Robert Wilson for a contest in extempore versification.
Francis Meres, in his Palladis Tamia, writes: "And so is now our witty Wilson, who for learning
and extemporall wit in this faculty is without compare or compeere, as, to his great and eternal
commendations, he manifested in his challenge at the Swan on the Bankside."

[Footnote 265: After the order of February 19, when the "intruding company" was driven out,
and before September 7 when Meres's Palladis Tamia was entered in the Stationers' Registers.]

On May 15, 1600, Peter Bromvill was licensed to use the Swan "to show his feats of activity
at convenient times in that place without let or interruption."[266] The Privy Council in issuing
the license observed that Bromvill "hath been recommended unto Her Majesty from her good brother
the French King, and hath shewed some feats of great activity before Her Highness." The property
remained in the possession of the Browker family until 1655.[268]

[Footnote 268: For this and other details as to the subsequent history of the property see
Wallace, Englische Studien, XLIII, 342; Rendle, The Antiquarian Magazine, VII, 207; and cf.
the map on page 163.]

On November 6, 1602, the building was the scene of the famous hoax known as England's Joy,
perpetrated upon the patriotic citizens of London by one Richard Vennar.[269] Vennar scattered
hand-bills over the city announcing that at the Swan Playhouse, on Saturday, November 6, a
company of "gentlemen and gentlewomen of account" would present with unusual magnificence a
play entitled England's Joy, celebrating Queen Elizabeth. It was proposed to show the coronation
of Elizabeth, the victory of the Armada, and various other events in the life of "England's
Joy," with the following conclusion: "And so with music, both with voice and instruments, she
is taken up into heaven; when presently appears a throne of blessed souls; and beneath, under
the stage, set forth with strange fire-works, diverse black and damned souls, wonderfully described
in their several torments."[270] The price of admission to the performance was to be "two shillings,
or eighteen pence at least." In spite of this unusually high price, an enormous audience, including
a "great store of good company and many noblemen," passed into the building. Whereupon Vennar
seized the money paid for admission, and showed his victims "a fair pair of heels." The members
of the audience, when they found themselves thus duped, "revenged themselves upon the hangings,
curtains, chairs, stools, walls, and whatsoever came in their way, very outrageously, and made
great spoil."[271]

[Footnote 269: Many writers, including Mr. Wallace, have confused this Richard Vennar with
William Fennor, who later challenged Kendall to a contest of wit at the Fortune. For a correct
account, see T.S. Graves, "Tricks of Elizabethan Showmen" (in The South Atlantic Quarterly,
April, 1915, XIV) and "A Note on the Swan Theatre" (in Modern Philology, January, 1912, IX, 431).]

[Footnote 270: From the broadside printed in The Harleian Miscellany, X, 198. For a photographic
facsimile, see Lawrence, The Elizabethan Playhouse (Second Series), p. 68.]

[Footnote 271: Letters Written by John Chamberlain, Camden Society (1861), p. 163; The Calendar
of State Papers, Domestic, 1601-1603, p. 264. See also Manningham's Diary, pp. 82, 93.]

On February 8, 1603, John Manningham recorded in his Diary: "Turner and Dun, two famous fencers,
playd their prizes this day at the Bankside, but Turner at last run Dun so far in the brain
at the eye, that he fell down presently stone dead; a goodly sport in a Christian state, to
see one man kill another!" The place where the contest was held is not specifically mentioned,
but in all probability it was the Swan.[272]

[Footnote 272: This seems to be the source of the statement by Mr. Wallace (Englische Studien,
XLIII, 388), quoting Rendle (The Antiquarian Magazine, VII, 210): "In 1604, a man named Turner,
in a contest for a prize at the Swan, was killed by a thrust in the eye." Rendle cites no authority
for his statement.]

For the next eight years all is silence, but we may suppose that the building was occasionally
let for special entertainments such as those just enumerated.

In 1611 Henslowe undertook to manage the Lady Elizabeth's Men, promising among other things
to furnish them with a suitable playhouse. Having disposed of the Rose in 1605, he rented the
Swan and established his company there. In 1613, however, he built the Hope, and transferred
the Lady Elizabeth's Men thither.

The Swan seems thereafter to have been occupied for a time by Prince Charles's Men. But the
history of this company and its intimate connection with the Lady Elizabeth's Company is too
vague to admit of definite conclusions. So far as we can judge, the Prince's Men continued
at the Swan until 1615, when Henslowe transferred them to the Hope.[273]

[Footnote 273: These dates are in a measure verified by the records of the Overseers of the
Poor for the Liberty of Paris Garden, printed by Mr. Wallace (Englische Studien, XLIII, 390,
note 1). Mr. Wallace seems to labor under the impression that this chapter in the history of
the Swan (1611-1615) was unknown before, but it was adequately treated by Fleay and later by
Mr. Greg.]

After 1615 the Swan was deserted for five years so far as any records show. But in 1621 the
old playhouse seems to have been again used by the actors. The Overseers of the Poor in the
Liberty of Paris Garden record in their Account Book: "Monday, April the 9th, 1621, received
of the players £5 3s. 6d."[274] From this it is evident that in the spring of 1621 some company
of players, the name of which has not yet been discovered, was occupying the Swan. Apparently,
however, the company did not remain there long, for the Account Book records no payment the
following year; nor, although it extends to the year 1671, does it again record any payments
from actors at the Swan. There is, indeed, no evidence to connect the playhouse with dramatic
performances after 1621.[275] In the map of 1627 it is represented as still standing, but is
labeled "the old playhouse," and is not even named.

[Footnote 274: Wallace, op. cit., p. 390, note 1.]

[Footnote 275: Rendle quotes a license of 1623 for "T.B. and three assistants to make shows
of Italian motions at the Princes Arms or the Swan." (The Antiquarian Magazine, 1885, VII,
211.) But this may be a reference to an inn rather than to the large playhouse.]

Five years later it is referred to in Nicolas Goodman's Holland's Leaguer (1632), a pamphlet
celebrating one of the most notorious houses of ill fame on the Bankside.[276] Dona Britannica
Hollandia, the proprietress of this house, is represented as having been much pleased with
its situation:

     Especially, and above all the rest, she was most taken with
     the report of three famous amphitheatres, which stood so
     near situated that her eye might take view of them from the
     lowest turret. One was the Continent of the World [i.e.,
     the Globe], because half the year a world of beauties and
     brave spirits resorted unto it; the other was a building of
     excellent Hope, and though wild beasts and gladiators did
     most possess it, yet the gallants that came to behold those
     combats, though they were of a mixt society, yet were many
     noble worthies amongst them; the last which stood, and, as
     it were, shak'd hands with this fortress, being in times
     past as famous as any of the other, was now fallen to decay,
     and like a dying Swanne, hanging down her head, seemed to
     sing her own dirge.

[Footnote 276: What seems to be a picture of this famous house may be seen in Merian's View
of London, 1638 (see opposite page 256), with a turret, and standing just to the right of the
Swan.]

This is the last that we hear of the playhouse, that was "in times past as famous as any of
the other." What finally became of the building we do not know. It is not shown in Hollar's
View of London, in 1647, and probably it had ceased to exist before the outbreak of the Civil War.

CHAPTER XI

THE SECOND BLACKFRIARS

In 1596 Burbage's lease of the plot of ground on which he had erected the Theatre was drawing
to a close, and all his efforts at a renewal had failed. The owner of the land, Gyles Alleyn,
having, in spite of the terms of the original contract, refused to extend the lease until 1606,
was craftily plotting for a substantial increase in the rental; moreover, having become puritanical
in his attitude towards the drama, he was insisting that if the lease were renewed, the Theatre
should be used as a playhouse for five years only, and then should either be torn down, or
be converted into tenements. Burbage tentatively agreed to pay the increased rental, but, of
course, he could not possibly agree to the second demand; and when all negotiations on this
point proved futile, he realized that he must do something at once to meet the awkward situation.

In the twenty years that had elapsed since the erection of the Theatre and the Curtain in Holywell,
the Bankside had been developed as a theatrical district, and the Rose and the Swan, not to
mention the Bear Garden, had made the south side of the river the popular place for entertainments.
Naturally, therefore, any one contemplating the erection of a playhouse would immediately think
of this locality. Burbage, however, was a man of ideas. He believed that he could improve on
the Bankside as a site for his theatre. He remembered how, at the outset of his career as a
theatrical manager, he had had to face competition with Richard Farrant who had opened a small
"private" playhouse in Blackfriars. Although that building had not been used as a "public"
playhouse, and had been closed up after a few years of sore tribulation, it had revealed to
Burbage the possibilities of the Blackfriars precinct for theatrical purposes. In the first
place, the precinct was not under the jurisdiction of the city, so that actors would not there
be subject to the interference of the Lord Mayor and his Aldermen. As Stevens writes in his
History of Ancient Abbeys, Monasteries, etc.: "All the inhabitants within it were subject to
none but the King ... neither the Mayor, nor the sheriffs, nor any other officers of the City
of London had the least jurisdiction or authority therein." Blackfriars, therefore, in this
fundamental respect, was just as desirable a location for theatres as was Holywell to the north
of the city, or the Bankside to the south. In the second place, Blackfriars had a decided advantage
over those two suburban localities in that it was "scituated in the bosome of the Cittie,"[277]
near St. Paul's Cathedral, the centre of London life, and hence was readily accessible to playgoers,
even during the disagreeable winter season. In the third place, the locality was distinctly
fashionable. To give some notion of the character of its inhabitants, I record below the names
of a few of those who lived in or near the conventual buildings at various times after the
dissolution: George Brooke, Lord Cobham; William Brooke, Lord Cobham, Lord Chamberlain of the
Queen's Household; Henry Brooke, Lord Cobham, Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports; Sir Thomas Cheney,
Treasurer of the Queen's Household, and Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports; Henry Carey, Lord
Hunsdon, Lord Chamberlain of the Queen's Household; George Carey, Lord Hunsdon, who as Lord
Chamberlain was the patron of Shakespeare's troupe; Sir Thomas Cawarden, Master of the Revels;
Sir Henry Jerningham, Fee Chamberlain to the Queen's Highness; Sir Willam More, Chamberlain
of the Exchequer; Lord Zanche; Sir John Portynary; Sir William Kingston; Sir Francis Bryan;
Sir John Cheeke; Sir George Harper; Sir Philip Hoby, Lady Anne Gray; Sir Robert Kyrkham; Lady
Perrin; Sir Christopher More; Sir Henry Neville; Sir Thomas Saunders; Sir Jerome Bowes; and
Lady Jane Guildford.[278] Obviously the locality was free from the odium which the public always
associated with Shoreditch and the Bankside, the recognized homes of the London stews.[279]

[Footnote 277: The Petition of 1619, in The Malone Society's Collections, I, 93.]

[Footnote 278: It is true that poor people also, feather-dealers and such-like, lived in certain
parts of Blackfriars, but this, of course, did not affect the reputation of the precinct as
the residence of noblemen.]

[Footnote 279: In Samuel Rowlands's Humors Looking Glass (1608), a rich country gull is represented
as filling his pockets with money and coming to London. Here a servant "of the Newgate variety"
shows him the sights of the city:

     Brought him to the Bankside where bears do dwell,
     And unto Shoreditch where the whores keep hell.]

Thus, a playhouse erected in the precinct of Blackfriars would escape all the grave disadvantages
of situation which attached to the existing playhouses in the suburbs, and, on the other hand,
would gain several very important advantages.

Burbage's originality, however, did not stop with the choice of Blackfriars as the site of
his new theatre; he determined to improve on the form of building as well. The open-air structure
which he had designed in 1576, and which had since been copied in all public theatres, had
serious disadvantages in that it offered no protection from the weather. Burbage now resolved
to provide a large "public" playhouse, fully roofed in, with the entire audience and the actors
protected against the inclemency of the sky and the cold of winter. In short, his dream was
of a theatre centrally located, comfortably heated, and, for its age, luxuriously appointed.

With characteristic energy and courage he at once set about the task of realizing this dream.
He found in the Blackfriars precinct a large building which, he thought, would admirably serve
his purpose. This building was none other than the old Frater of the Monastery, a structure
one hundred and ten feet long and fifty-two feet wide, with stone walls three feet thick, and
a flat roof covered with lead. From the Loseley documents, which M. Feuillerat has placed at
the disposal of scholars,[280] we are now able to reconstruct the old Frater building, and
to point out exactly that portion which was made into a playhouse.[281]

[Footnote 280: Blackfriars Records, in The Malone Society's Collections, (1913).]

[Footnote 281: For a reconstruction of the Priory buildings and grounds, and for specific evidence
of statements made in the following paragraphs, the reader is referred to J.Q. Adams, The Conventual
Buildings of Blackfriars, London, in the University of North Carolina Studies in Philology,
XIV, 64.]

At the time of the dissolution, the top story consisted of a single large room known as the
"Upper Frater," and also as the "Parliament Chamber" from the fact that the English Parliament
met here on several occasions; here, also, was held the trial before Cardinals Campeggio and
Wolsey for the divorce of the unhappy Queen Catherine and Henry VIII--a scene destined to be
reënacted in the same building by Shakespeare and his fellows many years later. In 1550 the
room was granted, with various other properties in Blackfriars, to Sir Thomas Cawarden.[282]

[Footnote 282: Feuillerat, Blackfriars Records, pp. 7, 12.]

The space below the Parliament Chamber was divided into three units. At the northern end was
a "Hall" extending the width of the building. It is mentioned in the Survey[283] of 1548 as
"a Hall ... under the said Frater"; and again in the side-note: "Memorandum, my Lorde Warden
claimeth the said Hall." Just to the south of the Hall was a "Parlor," or dining-chamber, "where
commonly the friars did use to break their fast." It is described in the Survey as being "under
the said Frater, of the same length and breadth." The room could not have been of the "same
length and breadth" as the great Parliament Chamber, for not only would such dimensions be
absurd for an informal dining-room, but, as we are clearly told, the "Infirmary" was also under
the Parliament Chamber, and was approximately one-third the size of the latter.[284] Accordingly
I have interpreted the phrase, "of the same length and breadth," to mean that the Parlor was
square. When the room was sold to Burbage it was said to be fifty-two feet in length from north
to south, which is exactly the breadth of the building from east to west. The Parlor, as well
as the Hall, was claimed by the Lord Warden; and both were granted to Sir Thomas Cawarden in 1550.

[Footnote 283: Feuillerat, Blackfriars Records, p. 7.]

[Footnote 284: Feuillerat, Blackfriars Records, pp. 105-06.]

South of the Parlor was the Infirmary, described as being "at the western corner of the Inner
Cloister" (of which the Frater building constituted the western side), as being under the Parliament
Chamber, and as being approximately one-third the size of the Parliament Chamber. The Infirmary
seems to have been structurally distinct from the Hall and Parlor.[285] It was three stories
high, consisting of a "room beneath the Fermary," the Infirmary itself, a "room above the same";[286]
while the Parliament Chamber, extending itself "over the room above the Fermary," constituted
a fourth story. Furthermore, not only was the Infirmary a structural unit distinct from the
Hall and the Parlor at the north, but it never belonged to Cawarden or More, and hence was
not included in the sale to Burbage. It was granted in 1545 to Lady Mary Kingston,[287] from
whom it passed to her son, Sir Henry Jerningham, then to Anthony Kempe, who later sold it to
Lord Hunsdon;[288] and at the time the playhouse was built, the Infirmary was still in the
occupation of Hunsdon.

[Footnote 285: In all probability it was separated from the Hall and Parlor by a passage leading
through the Infirmary into the Inner Cloister yard.]

[Footnote 286: One reason for the greater height may have been the slope of the ground towards
the river; a second reason was the unusual height of the Parlor.]

[Footnote 287: Feuillerat, Blackfriars Records, p. 105.]

[Footnote 288: Ibid., p. 124.]

At the northern end of the Frater building, and extending westward, was a narrow structure
fifty feet in length, sixteen feet in breadth, and three stories in height, regarded as a "part
of the frater parcel." The middle story, which was on the same level with the Parliament Chamber,
was known as the "Duchy Chamber," possibly because of its use in connection with the sittings
of Parliament, or with the meetings of the Privy Council there. The building was granted to
Cawarden in 1550.[289]

[Footnote 289: Feuillerat, Blackfriars Records, p. 8.]

Upon the death of Cawarden all his Blackfriars holdings passed into the possession of Sir William
More. From More, in 1596, James Burbage purchased those sections of the Frater building which
had originally been granted to Cawarden[290]--that is, all the Frater building except the Infirmary--for
the sum of £600, in modern valuation about $25,000.[291] Evidently he had profited by Farrant's
experience with More and by his own experience with Gyles Alleyn, and had determined to risk
no more leases, but in the future to be his own landlord, cost what it might.

[Footnote 290: For the deed of sale see ibid., p. 60.]

[Footnote 291: It should be observed, however, that Burbage paid only £100 down, and that he
immediately mortgaged the property for more than £200. The playhouse was not free from debt
until 1605. See Wallace, The First London Theatre, p. 23.]

The properties which he thus secured were:

(1) The Parliament Chamber, extending over the Hall, Parlor, and Infirmary. This great chamber,
it will be recalled, had previously been divided by Cawarden into the Frith and Cheeke Lodgings;[292]
but now it was arranged as a single tenement of seven rooms, and was occupied by the eminent
physician William de Lawne:[293] "All those seven great upper rooms as they are now divided,
being all upon one floor, and sometime being one great and entire room, with the roof over
the same, covered with lead." Up into this tenement led a special pair of stairs which made
it wholly independent of the rest of the building.

[Footnote 292: The northern section of the Cheeke Lodging (a portion of the old Buttery) which
had constituted Farrant's private theatre, and which was no real part of the Frater building,
had been converted by More into the Pipe Office.]

[Footnote 293: A prosperous physician. His son was one of the illustrious founders of the Society
of Apothecaries, and one of its chief benefactors. His portrait may be seen to-day in Apothecaries'
Hall. See C.R.B. Barrett, The History of the Society of Apothecaries of London.]

(2) The friar's "Parlor," now made into a tenement occupied by Thomas Bruskett, and called
"the Middle Rooms, or Middle Stories"--possibly from the fact that it was the middle of three
tenements, possibly from the fact that having two cellars under its northern end it was the
middle of three stories. It is described as being fifty-two feet in length north and south,
and thirty-seven feet in width. Why a strip of nine feet should have been detached on the eastern
side is not clear; but that this strip was also included in the sale to Burbage is shown by
later documents.

(3) The ancient "Hall" adjoining the "Parlor" on the north, and now made into two rooms. These
rooms were combined with the ground floor of the Duchy Chamber building to constitute a tenement
occupied by Peter Johnson: "All those two lower rooms now in the occupation of the said Peter
Johnson, lying directly under part of the said seven great upper rooms." The dimensions are
not given, but doubtless the two rooms together extended the entire width of the building and
were approximately as broad as the Duchy Chamber building, with which they were united.

(4) The Duchy Chamber building "at the north end of the said seven great upper rooms, and at
the west side thereof." At the time of the sale the ground floor of this building was occupied
by Peter Johnson, who had also the Hall adjoining it on the west; the middle story was occupied
by Charles Bradshaw; and the top story by Edward Merry.[294]

[Footnote 294: Mr. Wallace's description of the building and the way in which it was converted
into a playhouse (The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, pp. 37-41) is incorrect. For the
various details cited above see the deed of sale to Burbage.]

Out of this heterogeneous property Burbage was confronted with the problem of making a playhouse.
Apparently he regarded the Parliament Chamber as too low, or too inaccessible for the purposes
of a theatre; this part of his property, therefore, he kept as a lodging, and for many years
it served as a dormitory for the child-actors. The Duchy Chamber building, being small and
detached from the Frater building, he reserved also as a lodging.[295] In the Hall and the
Parlor, however, he saw the possibility of a satisfactory auditorium. Let us therefore examine
this section of the Frater building more in detail, and trace its history up to the time of
the purchase.

[Footnote 295: This may have contained the two rooms in which Evans lived, and "the schoolhouse
and the chamber over the same," which are described (see the documents in Fleay's A Chronicle
History of the London Stage, p. 210 ff.) as being "severed from the said great hall." In another
document this schoolhouse is described as "schola, anglice schoolhouse, ad borealem finem Aulæ
prædictæ." (Wallace, The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, p. 40.)]

The Parlor was described as "a great room, paved," and was said to have been "used and occupied
by the friars themselves to their own proper use as a parlor to dine and sup in."[296] Sir
John Portynary, whose house adjoined the Duchy Chamber, tells us that in 1550, when King Edward
granted the Blackfriars property to Cawarden, "Sir Thomas Cawarden, knight, entered into the
same house in the name of all that which the King had given him within the said friars, and
made his lodging there; and about that time did invite this examinant and his wife to supper
there, together with diverse other gentlemen; and they all supped together with the said Sir
Thomas Cawarden, in the same room [the Parlor] where the said school of fence is now kept,
and did there see a play."[297]

[Footnote 296: Feuillerat, Blackfriars Records, pp. 43, 47, 48.]

[Footnote 297: Ibid., p. 52.]

Later Cawarden leased the Parlor to a keeper of an ordinary: "One Woodman did hold the said
house where the said school of fence is kept, and another house thereby of Sir Thomas Cawarden,
and in the other room kept an ordinary table, and had his way to the same through the said
house where the said school of fence is kept."[298]

[Footnote 298: Ibid., p. 51.]

In 1563 William Joyner established in the rooms the school of fence mentioned above, which
was still flourishing in 1576.[299]

[Footnote 299: Feuillerat, Blackfriars Records, p. 121.]

When in 1583 John Lyly became interested in the First Blackfriars Playhouse, he obtained a
lease of the rooms, but it is not clear for what purpose. Later he sold the lease to Rocho
Bonetti, the Italian fencing-master, who established there his famous school of fence.[300]
In George Silver's Paradoxes of Defence, 1599, is a description of Bonetti's school, which
will, I think, help us to reconstruct in our imagination the "great room, paved" which was
destined to become Shakespeare's playhouse:

     He caused to be fairely drawne and set round about the
     schoole all the Noblemen's and Gentlemen's Armes that were
     his schollers, and, hanging right under their Armes, their
     Rapiers, Daggers, Gloves of Male, and Gantlets. Also he had
     benches and stooles, the roome being verie large, for
     Gentlemen to sit about his schoole to behold his teaching.

     He taught none commonly under twentie, fortie, fifty, or an
     hundred pounds. And because all things should be verie
     necessary for the Noblemen and Gentlemen, he had in his
     schoole a large square table, with a green carpet, done
     round with a verie brode rich fringe of gold; alwaies
     standing upon it a verie faire standish covered with crimson
     velvet, with inke, pens, pen-dust, and sealing-waxe, and
     quiers of verie excellent fine paper, gilded, readie for the
     Noblemen and Gentlemen (upon occasion) to write their
     letters, being then desirous to follow their fight, to send
     their men to dispatch their businesse.

     And to know how the time passed, he had in one corner of his
     Schoole, a Clocke, with a verie faire large diall; he had
     within that Schoole a roome the which he called his privie
     schoole, with manie weapons therein, where he did teach his
     schollers his secret fight, after he had perfectly taught
     them their rules. He was verie much loved in the Court.

[Footnote 300: Ibid., p. 122.]

We are further told by Silver that Bonetti took it upon himself "to hit anie Englishman with
a thrust upon anie button." It is no wonder that Shakespeare ridiculed him in Romeo and Juliet
as "the very butcher of a silk button," and laughed at his school and his fantastic fencing-terms:

     Mercutio. Ah! the immortal "passado"! the "punto reverso"!
     the "hay"!

     Benvolio. The what?

     Mercutio. The pox of such antick, lisping, affecting
     fantasticoes! These new tuners of accents!--"By Jesu, a very
     good blade!"

At the date of the sale to Burbage, February 4, 1596, the fencing school of Bonetti, had become
"those rooms and lodgings, with the kitchen thereunto adjoining, called the Middle Rooms or
Middle Stories, late being in the tenure or occupation of Rocco Bonetti, and now being in the
tenure or occupation of Thomas Bruskett, gentleman."

To make his playhouse Burbage removed all the partitions in the Middle Rooms, and restored
the Parlor to its original form--a great room covering the entire breadth of the building,
and extending fifty-two feet in length from north to south. To this he added the Hall at the
north, which then existed as two rooms in the occupation of Peter Johnson. The Hall and Parlor
when combined made an auditorium described as "per estimacionem in longitudine ab australe
ad borealem partem eiusdem sexaginta et sex pedes assissæ sit plus sive minus, et in latitudine
ab occidentale ad orientalem partem eiusdem quadraginto et sex pedes assissæ sit plus sive
minus."[301] The forty-six feet of width corresponds to the interior width of the Frater building,
for although it was fifty-two feet wide in outside measurement, the stone walls were three
feet thick. The sixty-six feet of length probably represents the fifty-two feet of the Parlor
plus the breadth of the Hall.

[Footnote 301: Wallace, The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, p. 39, note 1.]

The ceiling of these two rooms must have been of unusual height. The Infirmary, which was below
the Parliament Chamber at the south, was three stories high; and the windows of the Parlor,
if we may believe Pierce the Ploughman, were "wrought as a chirche":

     An halle for an heygh kinge · an household to holden,
     With brode bordes abouten · y-benched well clene,
     With windowes of glas · wrought as a chirche.

As a result Burbage was able to construct within the auditorium at least two galleries,[302]
after the manner of the public theatres. The Parliament Chamber above was kept, as I have stated,
for residential purposes. This is why the various legal documents almost invariably refer to
the playhouse as "that great hall or room, with the rooms over the same."[303]

[Footnote 302: Mr. Wallace, The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, p. 42, quotes from the
Epilogue to Marston's The Dutch Courtesan, acted at Blackfriars, "And now, my fine Heliconian
gallants, and you, my worshipful friends in the middle region," and adds that the "reference
to 'the middle region' makes it clear there were three" galleries. Does it not, however, indicate
that there were only two galleries?]

[Footnote 303: See the documents printed in Fleay's A Chronicle History of the London Stage,
pp. 211, 215, 240, etc. Mr. Wallace, however (The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, p.
40 ff.), would have us believe that an additional story was added: "the roof was changed, and
rooms, probably of the usual dormer sort, were built above." I am quite sure he is mistaken.]

The main entrance to the playhouse was at the north, over the "great yard" which extended from
the Pipe Office to Water Lane.[304] The stage was opposite this entrance, or at the southern
end of the hall, as is shown by one of the documents printed by Mr. Wallace.[305] Since the
building was not, like the other playhouses of London, open to the sky, the illumination was
supplied by candles, hung in branches over the stage; as Gerschow noted, after visiting Blackfriars,
"alle bey Lichte agiret, welches ein gross Ansehen macht."[306] The obvious advantage of artificial
light for producing beautiful stage effects must have added not a little to the popularity
of the Blackfriars Playhouse.

[Footnote 304: Cf. Playhouse Yard in the London of to-day.]

[Footnote 305: The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, p. 43, note 3.]

[Footnote 306: The Diary of the Duke of Stettin-Pomerania, in Transactions of the Royal Historical
Society (1892), VI, 26.]

The cost of all the alterations and the equipment could hardly have been less than £300, so
that the total cost of the property was at least £900, or in modern valuation approximately
$35,000. Burbage's sons, in referring to the building years later, declared that their father
had "made it into a playhouse with great charge."

"And," they added significantly, "with great trouble." The aristocratic inhabitants of the
Blackfriars precinct did not welcome the appearance in their midst of a "public," or, as some
more scornfully designated it, a "common," playhouse; and when they discovered the intentions
of Burbage, they wrote a strong petition to the Privy Council against the undertaking. This
petition, presented to the Council in November, 1596, I quote below in part:

     To the right honorable the Lords and others of Her Majesty's
     most honorable Privy Council.--Humbly shewing and beseeching
     your honors, the inhabitants of the precinct of the
     Blackfriars, London, that whereas one Burbage hath lately
     bought certain rooms in the same precinct near adjoining
     unto the dwelling houses of the right honorable the Lord
     Chamberlaine [Lord Cobham] and the Lord of Hunsdon, which
     rooms the said Burbage is now altering, and meaneth very
     shortly to convert and turn the same into a common
     playhouse, which will grow to be a very great annoyance and
     trouble, not only to all the noblemen and gentlemen
     thereabout inhabiting, but also a general inconvenience to
     all the inhabitants of the same precinct, both by reason of
     the great resort and gathering together of all manner of
     vagrant and lewd persons ... as also for that there hath not
     at any time heretofore been used any common playhouse within
     the same precinct, but that now all players being banished
     by the Lord Mayor from playing within the city ... they now
     think to plant themselves in liberties, etc.[307]

[Footnote 307: For the full document see Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 304. For the date,
see The Malone Society's Collections, I, 91.]

The first person to sign the petition was the Dowager Lady Elizabeth Russell; the second was
none other than George Cary, Lord Hunsdon, at the time the patron of Burbage's company of actors.[308]
It is not surprising, therefore, that as a result of this petition the Lords of the Privy Council
(of which Lord Cobham was a conspicuous member) issued an order in which they "forbad the use
of the said house for plays."[309] This order wrecked the plans of Burbage quite as effectively
as did the stubbornness of Gyles Alleyn.

[Footnote 308: Shortly after this he was appointed Lord Chamberlain, under which name his troupe
was subsequently known.]

[Footnote 309: Petition of 1619, The Malone Society's Collections, I, 91.]

Possibly the mental distress Burbage suffered at the hands of the Privy Council and of Gyles
Alleyn affected his health; at least he did not long survive this last sling of fortune. In
February, 1597, just before the expiration of the Alleyn lease, he died, leaving the Theatre
to his son Cuthbert, the bookseller, Blackfriars to his actor-son, Richard, the star of Shakespeare's
troupe, and his troubles to both. With good reason Cuthbert declared many years later that
the ultimate success of London theatres had "been purchased by the infinite cost and pains
of the family of Burbages."

When later in 1597 the Lord Chamberlain's Players were forced to leave Cuthbert's Theatre,
Richard Burbage was not able to establish them in his comfortable Blackfriars house; instead,
they first went to the old Curtain in Shoreditch, and then, under the leadership of the Burbage
sons, erected for themselves a brand-new home on the Bankside, called "The Globe."

The order of the Privy Council had summarily forbidden the use of Blackfriars as a "public"
playhouse. Its proprietor, however, Richard Burbage, might take advantage of the precedent
established in the days of Farrant, and let the building for use as a "private" theatre.[310]
Exactly when he was first able to lease the building as a "private" house we do not know, for
the history of the building between 1597 (when it was completed) and 1600 (when it was certainly
occupied by the Children of the Chapel) is very indistinct. We have no definite evidence to
connect the Chapel Children, or, indeed, any specific troupe, with Blackfriars during these
years. Yet prior to 1600 the building seems to have been used for acting. Richard Burbage himself
seems to say so. In leasing the building to Evans, in 1600, he says that he considered "with
himself that" Evans could not pay the rent "except the said Evans could erect and keep a company
of playing-boys or others to play plays and interludes in the said playhouse in such sort as
before time had been there used."[311] Now, unless this refers to Farrant's management of the
Chapel Boys in Blackfriars--nearly a quarter of a century earlier--it means that before 1600
some actors, presumably "playing-boys," had used Burbage's theatre. Moreover, there seems to
be evidence to show that the troupe thus vaguely referred to was under the management of Evans;
for, in referring to his lease of Blackfriars in 1600, Evans describes the playhouse as "then
or late in the tenure or occupation of your said oratour."[312] What these vague references
mean we cannot now with our limited knowledge determine. But there is not sufficient evidence
to warrant the usual assumption that Evans and Giles had opened the Blackfriars with the Children
of the Chapel in 1597.[313]

[Footnote 310: The constables and other officers in the Petition of 1619 say: "The owner of
the said playhouse, doth under the name of a private house ... convert the said house to a
public playhouse." (The Malone Society's Collections, I, 91.)]

[Footnote 311: Fleay, A Chronicle History of the London Stage, p. 234.]

[Footnote 312: Ibid., p. 211.]

[Footnote 313: This theory has been urged by Fleay, by Mr. Wallace in The Children of the Chapel
at Blackfriars, and by others.]

The known history of Blackfriars as a regular theatre may be said to begin in the autumn of
1600. On September 2 of that year, Henry Evans signed a lease of the playhouse for a period
of twenty-one years, at an annual rental of £40. This interesting step on the part of Evans
calls for a word of explanation as to his plans.

The Children of the Chapel Royal, who had attained such glory at Blackfriars during the Farrant-Hunnis-Evans-Oxford-Lyly
régime, had thereafter sunk into dramatic insignificance. Since 1584, when Lyly was forced
to give up his playhouse, they had not presented a play at Court. Probably they did not entirely
cease to act, for they can be vaguely traced in the provinces during a part of this period;
but their dramatic glory was almost wholly eclipsed. Evans, who had managed the Boys under
Hunnis, Oxford, and Lyly, hoped now to reëstablish the Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars
as they had been in his younger days. Like James Burbage, he was a man of ideas. His plan was
to interest in his undertaking the Master of the Chapel, Nathaniel Giles, who had succeeded
to the office at the death of Hunnis in 1597, and then to make practical use of the patent
granted to the Masters of the Children to take up boys for Her Majesty's service. Such a patent,
in the normal course of events, had been granted to Giles, as it had been to his predecessors.
It read in part as follows:

     Elizabeth, by the grace of God, &c., to all mayors,
     sheriffs, bailiffs, constables, and all other our officers,
     greeting. For that it is meet that our Chapel Royal should
     be furnished with well-singing children from time to time,
     we have, and by these presents do authorize our
     well-beloved servant, Nathaniel Giles, Master of our
     Children of our said Chapel, or his deputy, being by his
     bill subscribed and sealed, so authorized, and having this
     our present commission with him, to take such and so many
     children as he, or his sufficient deputy, shall think meet,
     in all cathedral, collegiate, parish churches, chapels, or
     any other place or places, as well within liberty as
     without, within this our realm of England, whatsoever they
     be.[314]

[Footnote 314: The full commission is printed in Wallace, The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars,
p. 61.]

In such a commission Evans saw wonderful possibilities. He reasoned that since the Queen had
forced upon the Chapel Children the twofold service of singing at royal worship and of acting
plays for royal entertainment, this twofold service should be met by a twofold organization,
the one part designed mainly to furnish sacred music, the other designed mainly to furnish
plays. Such a dual organization, it seemed to him, was now more or less necessary, since the
number of boy choristers in the Chapel Royal was limited to twelve, whereas the acting of plays
demanded at least twice as many. Once the principle that the Chapel Royal should supply the
Queen with plays was granted, the commission could be used to furnish the necessary actors;
and the old fiction, established by Farrant and Hunnis, of using a "private" playhouse as a
means of exercising or training the boys for Court service, would enable the promoters to give
public performances and thus handsomely reimburse themselves for their trouble.

Such was Evans's scheme, based upon his former experience with the Children at Farrant's Blackfriars,
and suggested, perhaps, by the existence of Burbage's Blackfriars now forbidden to the "common"
players. He presented his scheme to Giles, the Master of the Children; and Giles, no doubt,
presented it at Court; for he would hardly dare thus abuse the Queen's commission, or thus
make a public spectacle of the royal choristers, without in some way first consulting Her Majesty,
and securing at least her tacit consent. That Giles and Evans did secure royal permission to
put their scheme into operation is certain, although the exact nature of this permission is
not clear. Later, for misdemeanors on the part of the management, the Star Chamber ordered
"that all assurances made to the said Evans concerning the said house, or plays, or interludes,
should be utterly void, and to be delivered up to be cancelled."[315]

[Footnote 315: Fleay, A Chronicle History of the London Stage, p. 248.]

Armed with these written "assurances," and with the royal commission to take up children, Evans
and Giles began to form their company. This explains the language used by Heminges and Burbage:
"let the said playhouse unto Henry Evans ... who intended then presently to erect or set up
a company of boys."[316] Their method of recruiting players may best be told by Henry Clifton,
in his complaint to the Queen:

     But so it is, most excellent Sovereign, that the said
     Nathaniel Giles, confederating himself with one James
     Robinson, Henry Evans, and others,[317] yet unto Your
     Majesty's said subject unknown how [many], by color of Your
     Majesty's said letters patents, and the trust by Your
     Highness thereby to him, the said Nathaniel Giles,
     committed, endeavoring, conspiring, and complotting how to
     oppress diverse of Your Majesty's humble and faithful
     subjects, and thereby to make unto themselves an unlawful
     gain and benefit, they, the said confederates, devised,
     conspired, and concluded, for their own corrupt gain and
     lucre, to erect, set up, furnish, and maintain a playhouse,
     or place in the Blackfriars, within Your Majesty's city of
     London; and to the end they might the better furnish their
     said plays and interludes with children, whom they thought
     most fittest to act and furnish the said plays, they, the
     said confederates, abusing the authority and trust by Your
     Highness to him, the said Nathaniel Giles, and his deputy or
     deputies, by Your Highness's said letters patents given and
     reposed, hath, sithence Your Majesty's last free and general
     pardon, most wrongfully, unduly, and unjustly taken diverse
     and several children from diverse and sundry schools of
     learning and other places, and apprentices to men of trade
     from their masters, no way fitting for Your Majesty's
     service in or for your Chapel Royal, but the children have
     so taken and employed in acting and furnishing of the said
     plays and interludes, so by them complotted and agreed to
     be erected, furnished, and maintained, against the wills of
     the said children, their parents, tutors, masters, and
     governors, and to the no small grief and oppressions [of]
     Your Majesty's true and faithful subjects. Amongst which
     numbers, so by the persons aforesaid and their agents so
     unjustly taken, used and employed, they have unduly taken
     and so employed one John Chappell, a grammar school scholar
     of one Mr. Spykes School near Cripplegate, London; John
     Motteram, a grammar scholar in the free school at
     Westminster; Nathaniel Field, a scholar of a grammar school
     in London kept by one Mr. Monkaster;[318] Alvery Trussell,
     an apprentice to one Thomas Gyles; one Phillipp Pykman and
     [one] Thomas Grymes, apprentices to Richard and George
     Chambers; Salmon Pavy,[319] apprentice to one Peerce; being
     children no way able or fit for singing, nor by any the said
     confederates endeavoured to be taught to sing, but by them,
     the said confederates, abusively employed, as aforesaid,
     only in plays and interludes.[320]

[Footnote 316: Ibid., p. 234. Note that Evans is not to "continue" a troupe there, as Fleay
and Wallace believe, but to "erect" one.]

[Footnote 317: Possibly Robinson and the "others" were merely deputies.]

[Footnote 318: Field became later famous both as an actor and playwright. His portrait is preserved
at Dulwich College.]

[Footnote 319: Salathiel Pavy, whose excellent acting is celebrated in Jonson's tender elegy,
quoted in part below.]

[Footnote 320: Star Chamber Proceedings, printed in full by Fleay, op. cit., p. 127.]

In spite of the obvious animosity inspiring Clifton's words, we get from his complaint a clear
notion of how Evans and Giles supplemented the Children of the Chapel proper with actors. In
a short time they brought together at Blackfriars a remarkable troupe of boy-players, who,
with Jonson and Chapman as their poets, began to astonish London. For, in spite of certain
limitations, "the children" could act with a charm and a grace that often made them more attractive
than their grown-up rivals. The Duke of Stettin-Pomerania, who upon his grand tour of the European
countries in 1602 attended a play at Blackfriars, bears eloquent testimony to the musical powers
of the children: "For a whole hour before the play begins, one listens to charming [köstliche]
instrumental music played on organs, lutes, pandorins, mandolins, violins, and flutes; as,
indeed, on this occasion, a boy sang cum voce tremula to the accompaniment of a bass-viol,
so delightfully [lieblich] that, if the Nuns at Milan did not excel him, we had not heard his
equal in our travels."[324] In addition, the Children were provided with splendid apparel--though
not at the cost of the Queen, as Mr. Wallace contends.[325] Naturally they became popular.
On January 6, 1601, they were summoned to Court to entertain Her Majesty--the first recorded
performance of the Children of the Chapel at Court since the year 1584, when Sir William More
closed the first Blackfriars.

[Footnote 324: The Diary of the Duke of Stettin-Pomerania, printed in Transactions of the Royal
Historical Society (1890). The diary was written by the Duke's tutor, Gerschow, at the express
command of the Duke.]

[Footnote 325: It is hard to believe Mr. Wallace's novel theory that the Children of the Chapel
were subsidized by Elizabeth, as presented in his otherwise valuable The Children of the Chapel
at Blackfriars. Burbage and Heminges knew nothing of such a royal patronage at Blackfriars
(see Fleay, op. cit., p. 236), nor did Kirkham, the Yeoman of the Revels (ibid., p. 248). Kirkham
and his partners spent £600 on apparel, etc., according to Kirkham's statement.]

Perhaps the most interesting testimony to the success of the Chapel Children in their new playhouse
is that uttered by Shakespeare in Hamlet (1601), in which he speaks of the performances by
the "little eyases" as a "late innovation." The success of the "innovation" had driven Shakespeare
and his troupe of grown-up actors to close the Globe and travel in the country, even though
they had Hamlet as an attraction. The good-natured way in which Shakespeare treats the situation
is worthy of special observation:

     Ham. What players are they?

     Ros. Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
     tragedians of the city.[326]

     Ham. How chances it they travel? their residence, both in
     reputation and profit, was better both ways.[327]

     Ros. I think their inhibition comes by means of the late
     innovation.

     Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
     in the city? are they so followed?

     Ros. No, indeed, they are not!

     Ham. How comes it? do they grow rusty?

     Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but
     there is, sir, an aerie of children,[328] little eyases,
     that cry out on the top of question, and are most
     tyrannically clapped for 't. These are now the fashion, and
     so berattle the "common stages"--so they call them--that
     many wearing rapiers [i.e., gallants] are afraid of
     goose-quills, and dare scarce come thither.

     Ham. What! are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
     they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than
     they can sing?

[Footnote 326: The Children were acting light comedies such as Cynthia's Revels; the Lord Chamberlain's
Men were acting Hamlet.]

[Footnote 327: Shakespeare's troupe is known to have been traveling in the spring of 1601.]

[Footnote 328: Cf. Middleton's Father Hubbard's Tales, already quoted, "a nest of boys." Possibly
the idea was suggested by the fact that the children were lodged and fed in the building.]

The passage ends with the question from Hamlet: "Do the boys carry it away?" which gives Rosencrantz
an opportunity to pun on the sign of the Globe Playhouse: "Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules
and his load, too."

Shortly after the great dramatist had penned these words, the management of Blackfriars met
with disaster. The cause, however, went back to December 13, 1600, when Giles and Evans were
gathering their players. In their overweening confidence they made a stupid blunder in "taking
up" for their troupe the only son and heir of Henry Clifton, a well-to-do gentleman of Norfolk,
who had come to London for the purpose of educating the boy. Clifton says in his complaint
that Giles, Evans, and their confederates, "well knowing that your subject's said son had no
manner of sight in song, nor skill in music," on the 13th day of December, 1600, did "waylay
the said Thomas Clifton" as he was "walking quietly from your subject's said house towards
the said school," and "with great force and violence did seize and surprise, and him with like
force and violence did, to the great terror and hurt of him, the said Thomas Clifton, haul,
pull, drag, and carry away to the said playhouse." As soon as the father learned of this, he
hurried to the playhouse and "made request to have his said son released." But Giles and Evans
"utterly and scornfully refused to do" this. Whereupon Clifton threatened to complain to the
Privy Council. But Evans and Giles "in very scornful manner willed your said subject to complain
to whom he would." Clifton suggested that "it was not fit that a gentleman of his sort should
have his son and heir (and that his only son) to be so basely used." Giles and Evans "most
arrogantly then and there answered that they had authority sufficient so to take any nobleman's
son in this land"; and further to irritate the father, they immediately put into young Thomas's
hand "a scroll of paper, containing part of one of their said plays or interludes, and him,
the said Thomas Clifton, commanded to learn the same by heart," with the admonition that "if
he did not obey the said Evans, he should be surely whipped."[329]

[Footnote 329: The full complaint is printed by Fleay, op. cit., p. 127.]

Clifton at once appealed to his friend, Sir John Fortescue, a member of the Privy Council,
at whose order young Thomas was released and sent back to his studies. Apparently this ended
the episode. But Clifton, nourishing his animosity, began to investigate the management of
Blackfriars, and to collect evidence of similar abuses of the Queen's commission, with the
object of making complaint to the Star Chamber. In October, 1601, Evans, it seems, learned
of Clifton's purpose, for on the 21st of that month he deeded all his property to his son-in-law,
Alexander Hawkins.[330] Clifton finally presented his complaint to the Star Chamber on December
15, 1601,[331] but his complaint was probably not acted on until early in 1602, for during
the Christmas holidays the Children were summoned as usual to present their play before the
Queen.[332]

[Footnote 330: Ibid., pp. 244-45.]

[Footnote 331: Wallace, The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, p. 84, note 4.]

[Footnote 332: On December 29, 1601, Sir Dudley Carleton wrote to his friend John Chamberlain:
"The Queen dined this day privately at My Lord Chamberlain's. I came even now from the Blackfriars,
where I saw her at the play with all her candidæ auditrices." From this it has been generally
assumed that Elizabeth visited the playhouse in Blackfriars to see the Children act there;
and Mr. Wallace, in his The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, pp. 26, 87, 95-97, lays
great emphasis upon it to show that the Queen was directly responsible for establishing and
managing the Children at Blackfriars. But the assumption that the Queen attended a performance
at the Blackfriars Playhouse is, I think, unwarranted. The Lord Chamberlain at this time was
Lord Hunsdon, who lived "in the Blackfriars." No doubt on this Christmas occasion he entertained
the Queen with a great dinner, and after the dinner with a play given, not in a playhouse,
but in his mansion. (Lord Cobham, who was formerly Lord Chamberlain, and who also lived in
Blackfriars, had similarly entertained the Queen with plays "in Blackfriars"; cf. also The
Malone Society's Collections, II, 52.) Furthermore, the actors on this occasion were probably
not the Children of the Chapel, as Mr. Wallace thinks, but Lord Hunsdon's own troupe. Possibly
one of Shakespeare's new plays (Hamlet?) was then presented before the Queen for the first time.]

Shortly after this, however, the Star Chamber passed on Clifton's complaint. Evans was forbidden
to have any connection with plays there; and for a time, no doubt, the building was closed.

[Footnote 333: Fleay, op. cit., p. 248.]

Evans, however, still held the lease, and was under the necessity of paying the rent as before.
Then came forward Edward Kirkham, who, in his official capacity as Yeoman of the Revels, had
become acquainted with the dramatic activities of the Children of the Chapel. He saw an opportunity
to take over the Blackfriars venture now that Evans and probably Giles had been forbidden by
the Star Chamber to have any connection with plays in that building. Having associated with
him William Rastell, a merchant, and Thomas Kendall,[334] a haberdasher, he made overtures
to Evans, the owner of the lease. Evans, however, was determined to retain a half-interest
in the playhouse, and to evade the order of the Star Chamber by using his son-in-law, Alexander
Hawkins, as his agent. Accordingly, on April 20, 1602, "Articles of Agreement" were signed
between Evans and Hawkins on the one part, and Kirkham, Rastell, and Kendall on the other part,
whereby the latter were admitted to a half-interest in the playhouse and in the troupe of child-actors.
Kirkham, Rastell, and Kendall agreed to pay one-half of the annual rent of £40,[335] to pay
one-half of the repairs on the building, and in addition to spend £400 on apparel and furnishings
for the troupe. Under this reorganization--with Evans as a secret partner--the Children continued
to act with their customary success.

[Footnote 334: We find in Henslowe's Diary a player named William Kendall, but we do not know
that he was related to Thomas.]

[Footnote 335: The agreements remind one of the organization of the Globe. It seems clear that
Kirkham, Rastell, and Kendall held their moiety in joint tenancy.]

About a month later, however, Lord Hunsdon, the Lord Chamberlain, whose house adjoined Blackfriars,
seems to have inquired into the affairs of the new organization.[336] What Kirkham told him
led him to order Evans off the premises. Evans informs us that he was "commanded by his Lordship
to avoid and leave the same; for fear of whose displeasure, the complainant [Evans] was forced
to leave the country."[337] He felt it prudent to remain away from London "for a long space
and time"; yet he "lost nothing," for "he left the said Alexander Hawkins to deal for him and
to take such benefit of the said house as should belong unto him in his absence."[338]

[Footnote 336: Fleay, op. cit., pp. 211-13; 216; 220.]

[Footnote 337: Ibid., p. 220.]

[Footnote 338: Ibid., p. 217.]

If we may judge from the enthusiastic account given by the Duke of Stettin-Pomerania, who visited
Blackfriars in the September following, the Children were just as effective under Kirkham's
management as they had been under the management of Giles and Evans. It is to be noted, however,
that Elizabeth did not again invite the Blackfriars troupe to the Court.

The death of the Queen in 1603 led to the closing of all playhouses. This was followed by a
long attack of the plague, so that for many months Blackfriars was closed, and "by reason thereof
no such profit and commodity was raised and made of and by the said playhouse as was hoped
for."[339] Evans actually "treated" with Richard Burbage "about the surrendering and giving
up the said lease," but Burbage declined to consider the matter.

[Footnote 339: Fleay, op. cit., p. 235.]

Shortly after this the plague ceased, and acting, stimulated by King James's patronage, was
resumed with fervor. The Blackfriars Company was reorganized under Edward Kirkham, Alexander
Hawkins (acting for Evans), Thomas Kendall, and Robert Payne: and on February 4, 1604, it secured
a royal patent to play under the title "The Children of the Queen's Revels."[340] According
to this patent, the poet Samuel Daniel was specially appointed to license their plays: "Provided
always that no such plays or shows shall be presented before the said Queen our wife by the
said Children, or by them anywhere publicly acted, but by the approbation and allowance of
Samuel Daniel, whom her pleasure is to appoint for that purpose." At this time, too, or not
long after, John Marston was allowed a share in the organization, and thus was retained as
one of its regular playwrights.

[Footnote 340: For the patent, commonly misdated January 30, see The Malone Society's Collections,
I, 267. Mr. Wallace, in The Century Magazine (September, 1910, p. 747), says that the company
secured its patent "through the intercessions of the poet Samuel Daniel." It is true that the
Children of Her Majesty's Royal Chamber of Bristol secured their patent in 1615 at the intercession
of Daniel, but I know of no evidence that he intervened in behalf of the Blackfriars troupe.]

The success of the new company is indicated by the fact that it was summoned to present a play
at Court in February, 1604, and again two plays in January, 1605. Evans's activity in the management
of the troupe in spite of the order of the Star Chamber is evident from the fact that the payment
for the last two court performances was made directly to him.

In the spring of 1604 the company gave serious offense by acting Samuel Daniel's Philotas,
which was supposed to relate to the unfortunate Earl of Essex; but the blame must have fallen
largely on Daniel, who not only wrote the play, but also licensed its performance. He was summoned
before the Privy Council to explain, and seems to have fully proved his innocence. Shortly
after this he published the play with an apology affixed.[341]

[Footnote 341: A letter from Daniel to the Earl of Devonshire vindicating the play is printed
in Grosart's Daniel, I, xxii.]

The following year the Children gave much more serious offense by acting Eastward Hoe, a comedy
in which Marston, Chapman, and Jonson collaborated. Not only did the play ridicule the Scots
in general, and King James's creation of innumerable knights in particular, but one of the
little actors was actually made, it seems, to mimic the royal brogue: "I ken the man weel;
he is one of my thirty pound Knights." Marston escaped by timely flight, but Jonson and Chapman
were arrested and lodged in jail, and were for a time in some danger of having their nostrils
slit and their ears cropped. Both Chapman and Jonson asserted that they were wholly innocent,
and Chapman openly put the blame of the offensive passages on Marston.[342] Marston, however,
was beyond the reach of the King's wrath, so His Majesty punished instead the men in control
of Blackfriars. It was discovered that the manager, Kirkham, had presented the play without
securing the Lord Chamberlain's allowance. As a result, he and the others in charge of the
Children were prohibited from any further connection with the playhouse. This doubtless explains
the fact that Kirkham shortly after appears as one of the managers of Paul's Boys.[343] It
explains, also, the following statement made by Evans in the course of one of the later legal
documents: "After the King's most excellent Majesty, upon some misdemeanors committed in or
about the plays there, and specially upon the defendant's [Kirkham's] acts and doings there,
had prohibited that no plays should be more used there," etc.[344] Not only was Kirkham driven
from the management of the troupe and the playhouse closed for a time, but the Children were
denied the Queen's patronage. No longer were they allowed to use the high-sounding title "The
Children of the Queen's Majesty's Revels"; instead, we find them described merely as "The Children
of the Revels," or as "The Children of Blackfriars."[345]

[Footnote 342: See Dobell, "Newly Discovered Documents," in The Athenæum, March 30, 1901.]

[Footnote 343: Cunningham, Revels, p. xxxviii.]

[Footnote 344: Fleay, op. cit., p. 221.]

[Footnote 345: Except carelessly, as when sometimes called "The Children of the Chapel."]

For a time, no doubt, affairs at the playhouse were at a standstill. Evans again sought to
surrender his lease to Burbage, but without success.[346] Marston, having escaped the wrath
of the King by flight, decided to end his career as a playwright and turn country parson. It
was shortly after this, in all probability, that he sold his share in the Blackfriars organization
to one Robert Keysar, a goldsmith of London, for the sum of £100.[347]

[Footnote 346: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 82.]

[Footnote 347: Ibid., pp. 81, 86, 89, 93.]

Keysar, it seems, undertook to reopen the playhouse, and to continue the Children there at
his own expense.[348] From the proprietors he rented the playhouse, the stock of apparel, the
furnishings, and playbooks. This, I take it, explains the puzzling statement made by Kirkham
some years later:

     This repliant [Kirkham] and his said partners [Rastell and
     Kendall] have had and received the sum of one hundred pounds
     per annum for their part and moiety in the premises without
     any manner of charges whatsoever [i.e., during Kirkham's
     management of the troupe prior to 1605].[349] And after that
     this replyant and his said partners had received the
     foresaid profits [i.e., after Kirkham and his partners had
     to give up the management of the Children in 1605], the said
     Children, which the said Evans in his answer affirmeth to be
     the Queen's Children [i.e., they are no longer the Queen's
     Children, for after 1605 they had been deprived of the
     Queen's patronage; but Kirkham was in error, for Evans with
     legal precision had referred to the company as 'The Queen's
     Majesty's Children of the Revels (for so it was often
     called)'] were masters themselves [i.e., their own
     managers], and this complainant and his said partners
     received of them, and of one Keysar who was interest with
     them, above the sum of one hundred and fifty pounds per
     annum only for the use of the said great hall, without all
     manner of charges, as this replyant will make it manifest to
     this honorable court.[350]

[Footnote 348: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 80 ff.]

[Footnote 349: That is, £33, more or less, a share. We have documentary evidence to show that
a share in the Red Bull produced £30, and a share in the Globe £30 to £40 per annum.]

[Footnote 350: Fleay, op. cit., p. 249. The yearly rental must have included not only the playhouse
and its equipment, but the playbooks, apparel, properties, etc., belonging to the Children.
These were on July 26, 1608, divided up among the sharers, Kirkham, Rastell, Kendall, and Evans.]

Under Keysar's management the Blackfriars troupe continued to act as the Children of the Revels.
But, unfortunately, they had not learned wisdom from their recent experience, and in the very
following year we find them again in serious trouble. John Day's Isle of Guls, acted in February,
1606, gave great offense to the Court. Sir Edward Hoby, in a letter to Sir Thomas Edwards,[351]
writes: "At this time was much speech of a play in the Blackfriars, where, in the Isle of Guls,
from the highest to the lowest, all men's parts were acted of two diverse nations. As I understand,
sundry were committed to Bridewell."[352]

[Footnote 351: Birch, Court and Times of James the First, I, 60; quoted by E.K. Chambers, in
Modern Language Review, IV, 158.]

[Footnote 352: Possibly an aftermath of the King's displeasure is to be found in the cancellation
of Giles's long-standing commission to take up boys for the Chapel, and the issuance of a new
commission to him, November 7, 1606, with the distinct proviso that "none of the said choristers
or children of the Chapel so to be taken by force of this commission shall be used or employed
as commedians or stage players." (The Malone Society's Collections, I, 357.)]

The Children, however, were soon allowed to resume playing, and they continued for a time without
mishap. But in the early spring of 1608 they committed the most serious offense of all by acting
Chapman's Conspiracy and Tragedy of Charles, Duke of Byron. The French Ambassador took umbrage
at the uncomplimentary representation of the contemporary French Court, and had an order made
forbidding them to act the play. But the Children, "voyant toute la Cour dehors, ne laisserent
de la faire, et non seulement cela, mais y introduiserent la Reine et Madame de Verneuil, traitant
celle-ci fort mal de paroles, et lui donnant un soufflet." Whereupon the French Ambassador
made special complaint to Salisbury, who ordered the arrest of the author and the actors. "Toutefois
il ne s'en trouva que trois, qui aussi-tôt furent menés à la prison où ils sont encore; mais
le principal, qui est le compositeur, échapa."[353] The Ambassador observes also that a few
days before the Children of the Revels had given offense by a play on King James: "Un jour
ou deux avant, ils avoient dépêché leur Roi, sa mine d'Ecosse, et tous ses Favoris d'une étrange
sorte; car aprés lui avoir fait dépiter le Ciel sur le vol d'un oisseau, et fait battre un
Gentilhomme pour avoir rompu ses chiens, ils le dépeignoient ivre pour le moins une fois le
jour."[354] As a result of these two offenses, coming as a climax to a long series of such
offenses, the King was "extrêmement irrité contre ces marauds-là," and gave order for their
immediate suppression. This marked the end of the child-actors at Blackfriars. Mr. Wallace,
in The Century Magazine (September, 1910, p. 747), says: "From a document I have found in France
the Blackfriars boys now satirized the King's efforts to raise money, made local jokes on the
recent discovery of his silver mine in Scotland, brought him on the stage as drunk, and showed
such to be his condition at least three times a day, caricatured him in his favorite pastime
of hawking, and represented him as swearing and cursing at a gentleman for losing a bird."
I do not know what document Mr. Wallace has found; the French document quoted above has been
known for a long time.]

Naturally Kirkham, Rastell, and Kendall, since there was "no profit made of the said house,
but a continual rent of forty pounds to be paid for the same," became sick of their bargain
with Evans. An additional reason for their wishing to withdraw finally from the enterprise
was the rapid increase of the plague, which about July 25 closed all playhouses. So Kirkham,
"at or about the 26 of July, 1608, caused the apparrels, properties, and goods belonging to
the copartners, sharers, and masters" to be divided. Kirkham and his associates took away their
portions, and "quit the place," the one-time manager using to Evans some unkind words: "said
he would deal no more with it, 'for,' quod he, 'it is a base thing,' or used words to such
or very like effect."[355] Evans, thus deserted by Kirkham, Rastell, and Kendall, regarded
the organization of the Blackfriars as dissolved; he "delivered up their commission which he
had under the Great Seal authorizing them to play, and discharged diverse of the partners and
poets."

[Footnote 355: Fleay, op. cit., pp. 221-22.]

Robert Keysar, however, the old manager, laid plans to keep the Children together, and continue
them as a troupe after the cessation of the plague. For a while, we are told, he maintained
them at his own expense, "in hope to have enjoyed his said bargain ... upon the ceasing of
the general sickness."[356] And he expected, by virtue of the share he had purchased from John
Marston, to be able to use the Blackfriars Playhouse for his purpose.

[Footnote 356: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, pp. 83, 97.]

In the meanwhile Evans began negotiations with Burbage for the surrender of the lease: "By
reason the said premises lay then and had long lyen void and without use for plays, whereby
the same became not only burthensome and unprofitable unto the said Evans, but also ran far
into decay for want of reparations ... the said Evans began to treat with the said Richard
Burbage about a surrender of the said Evans his said lease."[357] This time Burbage listened
to the proposal, for he and his fellow-actors at the Globe "considered that the house would
be fit for themselves." So in August, 1608, he agreed to take over the building for the use
of the King's Men.

[Footnote 357: Ibid., p. 87.]

Even after Evans's surrender of the lease, Keysar, it seems, made an effort to keep the Children
together. On the following Christmas, 1608-09, we find a record of payment to him for performances
at Court, by "The Children of Blackfriars." But soon after this the troupe must have been disbanded.
Keysar says that they were "enforced to be dispersed and turned away to the abundant hurt of
the said young men";[358] and the Burbages and Heminges declare that the children "were dispersed
and driven each of them to provide for himself by reason that the plays ceasing in the City
of London, either through sickness, or for some other cause, he, the said complainant [Keysar],
was no longer able to maintain them together."[359] In the autumn of 1609, however, Keysar
assembled the Children again, reorganized them with the assistance of Philip Rosseter, and
placed them in Whitefriars Playhouse, recently left vacant by the disruption of the Children
of His Majesty's Revels. Their subsequent history will be found related in the chapter dealing
with that theatre.

[Footnote 358: Ibid., p. 90.]

[Footnote 359: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 97.]

When in August, 1608, Richard Burbage secured from Evans the surrender of the Blackfriars lease,
he at once proceeded to organize from the Globe Company a syndicate to operate the building
as a playhouse. He admitted to partnership in the new enterprise all of the then sharers in
the Globe except Witter and Nichols, outsiders who had secured their interest through marriage
with the heirs of Pope and Phillips, and who, therefore, were not entitled to any consideration.
In addition, he admitted Henry Evans, doubtless in fulfillment of a condition in the surrender
of the lease. The syndicate thus formed was made up of seven equal sharers, as follows: Richard
Burbage, Cuthbert Burbage, Henry Evans, William Shakespeare, John Heminges, Henry Condell,
and William Slye. These sharers leased the building from Richard Burbage for a period of twenty-one
years,[360] at the old rental of £40 per annum, each binding himself to pay annually the sum
of £5 14s. 4d.[361] The method of distributing the profits between the sharers (known as "housekeepers")
and the actors (known as the "company") was to be the same as that practiced at the Globe.[362]

[Footnote 360: Twenty-one years was a very common term for a lease to run; but in this case,
no doubt, it was intended that the lease of Blackfriars should last as long as the lease of
the Globe, which then had exactly twenty-one years to run.]

[Footnote 361: Shortly after this agreement had been made William Slye died, and his executrix
delivered up his share to Richard Burbage "to be cancelled and made void." See the Heminges-Osteler
documents printed by Mr. Wallace in the London Times, October 4, 1909. In 1611 Burbage let
William Osteler have this share.]

[Footnote 362: The method is clearly explained in the documents of 1635 printed by Halliwell-Phillipps,
in Outlines, I, 312.]

Soon after this organization was completed, the King's Men moved from the Globe to the Blackfriars.
They did not, of course, intend to abandon the Globe. Their plan was to use the Blackfriars
as a "winter home," and the Globe as a "summer house."[363] Malone observed from the Herbert
Manuscript that "the King's Company usually began to play at the Globe in the month of May";[364]
although he failed to state at what time in the autumn they usually moved to the Blackfriars,
the evidence points to the first of November.

[Footnote 363: See Wright, Historia Histrionica, Hazlitt's Dodsley, XV, 406.]

[Footnote 364: Malone, Variorum, III, 71.]

Such a plan had many advantages. For one thing, it would prevent the pecuniary losses often
caused by a severe winter. In the Poetaster (1601), Jonson makes Histrio, representing the
Globe Players, say: "O, it will get us a huge deal of money, and we have need on't, for this
winter has made us all poorer than so many starved snakes; nobody comes at us."[365] This could
not be said of the King's Men after they moved to the Blackfriars. Edward Kirkham, a man experienced
in theatrical finances, offered to prove to the court in 1612 that the King's Men "got, and
as yet doth, more in one winter in the said great hall by a thousand pounds than they were
used to get on the Bankside."[366]

[Footnote 365: Act III, scene iv. Cf. also Webster's Preface to The White Devil, acted at the
Red Bull about 1610.]

[Footnote 366: Fleay, A Chronicle History of the London Stage, p. 248.]

Kirkham's testimony as to the popularity of the King's Men in their winter home is borne out
by a petition to the city authorities made by "the constables and other officers and inhabitants
of Blackfriars" in January, 1619. They declared that to the playhouse "there is daily such
resort of people, and such multitudes of coaches (whereof many are hackney-coaches, bringing
people of all sorts), that sometimes all our streets cannot contain them, but that they clog
up Ludgate also, in such sort that both they endanger the one the other, break down stalls,
throw down men's goods from their shops, and the inhabitants there cannot come to their houses,
nor bring in their necessary provisions of beer, wood, coal, or hay, nor the tradesmen or shopkeepers
utter their wares, nor the passenger go to the common water stairs without danger of their
lives and limbs." "These inconveniences" were said to last "every day in the winter time from
one or two of the clock till six at night."[367]

[Footnote 367: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 91.]

As a result of this petition the London Common Council ordered, January 21, 1619, that "the
said playhouses be suppressed, and that the players shall from thenceforth forbear and desist
from playing in that house."[368] But the players had at Court many influential friends, and
these apparently came to their rescue. The order of the Common Council was not put into effect;
and so far as we know the only result of this agitation was that King James on March 27 issued
to his actors a new patent specifically giving them--described as his "well-beloved servants"--the
right henceforth to play unmolested in Blackfriars. The new clause in the patent runs: "as
well within their two their now usual houses called the Globe, within our County of Surrey,
and their private house situate in the precinct of the Blackfriars, within our city of London."[369]
At the accession of King Charles I, the patent was renewed, June 24, 1625, with the same clause
regarding the use of Blackfriars.[370]

[Footnote 368: Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 311.]

[Footnote 369: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 281.]

[Footnote 370: Ibid., I, 282.]

In 1631, however, the agitation was renewed, this time in the form of a petition from the churchwardens
and constables of the precinct of Blackfriars to William Laud, then Bishop of London. The document
gives such eloquent testimony to the popularity of the playhouse that I have inserted it below
in full:

     To the Right Honorable and Right Reverend Father in God,
     William, Lord Bishop of London, one of His Majesty's
     Honorable Privy Council. The humble petition of the
     churchwardens and constables of Blackfriars, on the behalf
     of the whole Parish, showing that by reason of a playhouse,
     exceedingly frequented, in the precinct of the said
     Blackfriars, the inhabitants there suffer many grievances
     upon the inconveniences hereunto annexed, and many other.

     May it therefore please your Lordship to take the said
     grievances into your honorable consideration for the
     redressing thereof. And for the reviving the order, which
     hath been heretofore made by the Lords of the Council, and
     the Lord Mayor and the Court of Aldermen, for the removal of
     them. And they shall, according to their duties, ever pray
     for your Lordship.

     Reasons and Inconveniences Inducing the Inhabitants of
     Blackfriars, London, to Become Humble Suitors to Your
     Lordship for Removing the Playhouse in the Said Blackfriars:

     1.

     2. The recourse of coaches is many times so great that the
     inhabitants cannot in an afternoon take in any provision of
     beer, coals, wood, or hay, the streets being known to be so
     exceeding straight and narrow.

     3. The passage through Ludgate to the water [i.e., Water
     Lane] is many times stopped up, people in their ordinary
     going much endangered, quarrels and bloodshed many times
     occasioned, and many disorderly people towards night
     gathered thither, under pretense of attending and waiting
     for those at the plays.

     4.

     5. Christenings and burials, which usually are in the
     afternoon, are many times disturbed, and persons endangered
     in that part, which is the greatest part of the parish.

     6. And some persons of honor have left, and others
     have refused houses for this very inconvenience, to the
     prejudice and loss of the parish.

     7. The Lords of the Council in former times have by order
     directed that there shall be but two playhouses tolerated,
     and those without the city, the one at the Bankside, the
     other near Golding Lane (which these players still have and
     use all summer), which the Lords did signify by their
     letters to the Lord Mayor; and in performance thereof the
     Lord Mayor and the Court of Aldermen did give order that
     they should forbear to play any longer there, which the
     players promised to the Lord Chief Justice of the Common
     Pleas (while he was Recorder of London) to observe,
     entreating only a little time to provide themselves
     elsewhere.[371]

[Footnote 371: Collier, History of English Dramatic Poetry (1879), I, 455.]

Bishop Laud endorsed the petition with his own hand "To the Coun. Table," and in all probability
he submitted it to the consideration of the Privy Council. If so, the Council took no action.

But in 1633, as a result of further complaints about the crowding of coaches, the Privy Council
appointed a committee to estimate the value of the Blackfriars Theatre and "the buildings thereunto
belonging," with the idea of removing the playhouse and paying the owners therefor. The committee
reported that "the players demanded £21,000. The commissioners [Sir Henry Spiller, Sir William
Beecher, and Laurence Whitaker] valued it at near £3000. The Parishioners offered towards the
removing of them £100."[372] Obviously the plan of removal was not feasible, if indeed the
Privy Council seriously contemplated such action. The only result of this second agitation
was the issuance on November 20 of special instructions to coachmen: "If any persons, men or
women, of what condition soever, repair to the aforesaid playhouse in coach, as soon as they
are gone out of their coaches, the coachmen shall depart thence and not return till the end
of the play."[373] Garrard, in a letter to the Lord Deputy dated January 9, 1633, says: "Here
hath been an order of the Lords of the Council hung up in a table near Paul's and the Blackfriars
to command all that resort to the playhouse there to send away their coaches, and to disperse
abroad in Paul's Churchyard, Carter Lane, the Conduit in Fleet Street, and other places, and
not to return to fetch their company, but they must trot afoot to find their coaches. 'Twas
kept very strictly for two or three weeks, but now I think it is disordered again."[374] The
truth is that certain distinguished patrons of the theatre did not care "to trot afoot to find
their coaches," and so made complaint at Court. As a result it was ordered, at a sitting of
the Council, December 29, 1633 (the King being present): "Upon information this day given to
the Board of the discommodity that diverse persons of great quality, especially Ladies and
Gentlewomen, did receive in going to the playhouse of Blackfriars by reason that no coaches
may stand ... the Board ... think fit to explain the said order in such manner that as many
coaches as may stand within the Blackfriars Gate may enter and stay there."[375]

[Footnote 372: The Calendar of State Papers, Domestic, 1633, p. 293. The report of the commissioners
in full, as printed by Collier in New Facts (1835), p. 27, and again in History of English
Dramatic Poetry (1879), I, 477, is not above suspicion, although Mr. E.K. Chambers is inclined
to think it genuine. According to this document the actors estimated the property to be worth
£21,990, but the committee thought that the actors might be persuaded to accept £2900 13s. 4d.]

[Footnote 373: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 99; 387.]

[Footnote 374: The Earl of Strafforde's Letters (Dublin, 1740), I, 175.]

[Footnote 375: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 388.]

All this agitation about coaches implies a fashionable and wealthy patronage of the Blackfriars.
An interesting glimpse of high society at the theatre is given in a letter written by Garrard,
January 25, 1636: "A little pique happened betwixt the Duke of Lenox and the Lord Chamberlain
about a box at a new play in the Blackfriars, of which the Duke had got the key, which, if
it had come to be debated betwixt them, as it was once intended, some heat or perhaps other
inconvenience might have happened."[376] The Queen herself also sometimes went thither. Herbert
records, without any comment, her presence there on the 13 of May, 1634.[377] It has been generally
assumed that she attended a regular afternoon performance; but this, I am sure, was not the
case. The Queen engaged the entire building for the private entertainment of herself and her
specially invited guests, and the performance was at night. In a bill presented by the King's
Men for plays acted before the members of the royal family during the year 1636 occurs the
entry: "The 5th of May, at the Blackfryers, for the Queene and the Prince Elector ... Alfonso."
Again, in a similar bill for the year 1638 (see the bill on page 404) is the entry: "At the
Blackfryers, the 23 of Aprill, for the Queene ... The Unfortunate Lovers." The fact that the
actors did not record the loss of their "day" at their house, and made their charge accordingly,
shows that the plays were given at night and did not interfere with the usual afternoon performances
before the public.

[Footnote 376: The Earl of Strafforde's Letters (Dublin, 1740), I, 511.]

[Footnote 377: The Herbert MS., Malone, Variorum, III, 167.]

The King's Men continued to occupy the Blackfriars as their winter home until the closing of
the theatres in 1642. Thereafter the building must have stood empty for a number of years.
In 1653 Sir Aston Cokaine, in a poem prefixed to Richard Brome's Plays, looked forward prophetically
to the happy day when

     Black, and White Friars too, shall flourish again.

But the prophecy was not to be fulfilled; for although Whitefriars (i.e., Salisbury Court)
did flourish as a Restoration playhouse, the more famous Blackfriars had ceased to exist before
acting was allowed again. The manuscript note in the Phillipps copy of Stow's Annals (1631)
informs us that "the Blackfriars players' playhouse in Blackfriars, London, which had stood
many years, was pulled down to the ground on Monday the 6 day of August, 1655, and tenements
built in the room."[378]

[Footnote 378: See The Academy, 1882, XXII, 314. Exactly the same fate had overtaken the Globe
ten years earlier.]

CHAPTER XII

THE GLOBE

As related more fully in the chapter on "The Theatre," when Cuthbert and Richard Burbage discovered
that Gyles Alleyn not only refused to renew the lease for the land on which their playhouse
stood, but was actually planning to seize the building and devote it to his private uses, they
took immediate steps to thwart him. And in doing so they evolved a new and admirable scheme
of theatrical management. They planned to bring together into a syndicate or stock-company
some of the best actors of the day, and allow these actors to share in the ownership of the
building. Hitherto playhouses had been erected merely as pecuniary investments by profit-seeking
business men,--Burbage,[379] Brayne, Lanman, Henslowe, Cholmley, Langley,--and had been conducted
in the interests of the proprietors rather than of the actors.[380] As a result, these proprietors
had long reaped an unduly rich harvest from the efforts of the players, taking all or a large
share of the income from the galleries. The new scheme was designed to remedy these faults.
(Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 317.)]

For participation in this scheme the Burbages selected the following men: William Shakespeare,
not only a successful actor, but a poet who had already made his reputation as a writer of
plays, and who gave promise of greater attainments; John Heminges, a good actor and an exceptionally
shrewd man of business, who until his death managed the pecuniary affairs of the company with
distinguished success; Augustine Phillips and Thomas Pope, both ranked with the best actors
of the day;[381] and William Kempe, the greatest comedian since Tarleton, described in 1600
as "a player in interludes, and partly the Queen's Majesty's jester." When to this group we
add Richard Burbage himself, the Roscius of his age, we have an organization of business, histrionic,
and poetic ability that could not be surpassed. It was carefully planned, and it deserved the
remarkable success which it attained. The superiority of the Globe Company over all others
was acknowledged in the days of James and Charles, and to-day stands out as one of the most
impressive facts in the history of the early drama.

[Footnote 381: See, for example, Thomas Heywood's Apology for Actors (1612). In enumerating
the greatest actors of England he says: "Gabriel, Singer, Pope, Phillips, Sly--all the right
I can do them is but this, that though they be dead, their deserts yet live in the remembrance
of many."]

According to the original plan there were to be ten shares in the new enterprise, the Burbage
brothers holding between them one-half the stock, or two and a half shares each, and the five
actors holding the other half, or one share each. All the expenses of leasing a site, erecting
a building, and subsequently operating the building as a playhouse, and likewise all the profits
to accrue therefrom, were to be divided among the sharers according to their several holdings.

This organization, it should be understood, merely concerned the ownership of the building.
Its members stood in the relation of landlords to the players, and were known by the technical
name of "housekeepers." Wholly distinct was the organization of the players, known as the "company."
The company, too, was divided into shares for the purpose of distributing its profits. The
"housekeepers," in return for providing the building, received one-half of the income from
the galleries; the company, for entertaining the public, received the other half of the income
from the galleries, plus the takings at the doors. Those actors who were also "housekeepers"
shared twice in the profits of the playhouse; and it was a part of the plan of the "housekeepers"
to admit actors to be sharers in the building as soon as they attained eminence, or otherwise
made their permanent connection with the playhouse desirable. Thus the two organizations, though
entirely distinct, were interlocking.

Such a scheme had many advantages. In the first place, it prevented the company from shifting
from one playhouse to another, as was frequently the case with other troupes. In the second
place, it guaranteed both the excellence and the permanency of the company. Too often good
companies were dissolved by the desertion of a few important members; as every student of the
drama knows, the constant reorganization of troupes is one of the most exasperating features
of Elizabethan theatrical history. In the third place, the plan, like all profit-sharing schemes,
tended to elicit from each member of the organization his best powers. The opportunity offered
to a young actor ultimately to be admitted as a sharer in the ownership of the building was
a constant source of inspiration,[382] and the power to admit at any time a new sharer enabled
the company to recruit from other troupes brilliant actors when such appeared; as, for example,
William Osteler and Nathaniel Field, who had attained fame with the Children at Blackfriars
and elsewhere. Finally, the plan brought the actors together in a close bond of friendship
that lasted for life. Heminges was loved and trusted by them all. Shakespeare was admired and
revered; three members of the troupe seem to have named their sons for him. Indeed, there is
nothing more inspiring in a close study of all the documents relating to the Globe than the
mutual loyalty and devotion of the original sharers. The publication of Shakespeare's plays
by Heminges and Condell is merely one out of many expressions of this splendid comradeship.

[Footnote 382: "The petitioners have a long time with much patience expected to be admitted
sharers in the playhouses of the Globe and the Blackfriars, whereby they might reap some better
fruit of their labour than hitherto they have done, and be encouraged to proceed therein with
cheerfulness." (The Young Players' Petition, 1635, printed by Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines,
I, 312.)]

The plan of organization having been evolved, and the original members having been selected,
the first question presenting itself was, Where should the new playhouse be erected? Burbage,
Heminges, and the rest--including Shakespeare--probably gave the question much thought. Their
experience in Holywell had not been pleasant; the precinct of Blackfriars, they now well realized,
was out of the question; so they turned their eyes to the Bankside. That section had recently
become the theatrical centre of London. There were situated the Rose, the Swan, and the Bear
Garden, and thither each day thousands of persons flocked in search of entertainment. Clearly
the Bankside was best suited to their purpose. Near the fine old church of St. Mary Overies,
and not far from the Rose and the Bear Garden, they found a plot of land that met their approval.
Its owner, Sir Nicholas Brend, was willing to lease it for a long term of years, and at a very
reasonable rate. They made a verbal contract with Brend, according to which the lease was to
begin on December 25, 1598.

Three days later, on December 28, Richard and Cuthbert Burbage, having secured the services
of the carpenter, Peter Street, and his workmen, tore down the old Theatre and transported
the timber and other materials to this new site across the river; and shortly after the Globe
began to lift itself above the houses of the Bankside--a handsome theatre surpassing anything
then known to London playgoers.

In the meantime the lawyers had drawn up the lease, and this was formally signed on February
21, 1599. The company had arranged a "tripartite lease," the three parties being Sir Nicholas
Brend, the Burbage brothers, and the five actors.[383] To the Burbages Sir Nicholas leased
one-half of the property at a yearly rental of £7 5s.; and to the five actors, he leased the
other half, at the same rate. Thus the total rent paid for the land was £14 10s. The lease
was to run for a period of thirty-one years.

[Footnote 383: Exact information about the lease and the organization of the company is derived
from the Heminges-Osteler and the Witter-Heminges documents, both discovered and printed by
Mr. Wallace. And with these one should compare the article by the same author in the London
Times, April 30, May 1, 1914.]

The five actors, not satisfied with tying up the property in the "tripartite lease," proceeded
at once to arrange their holdings in the form of a "joint tenancy." This they accomplished
by the following device:

     William Shakespeare, Augustine Phillips, Thomas Pope, John
     Heminges, and William Kempe did shortly after grant and
     assign all the said moiety of and in the said gardens and
     grounds unto William Levison and Thomas Savage, who
     regranted and reassigned to every one of them severally a
     fifth part of the said moiety of the said gardens and
     grounds.[384]

[Footnote 384: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 53. Shakespeare's leadership
in the erection of the Globe is indicated in several documents; for example, the post-mortem
inquisition of the estate of Sir Thomas Brend, May 16, 1599.]

The object of the "joint tenancy" was to prevent any member of the organization from disposing
of his share to an outsider. Legally at the death of a member his share passed into the possession
of the other members, so that the last survivor would receive the whole. In reality, however,
the members used the "joint tenancy" merely to control the disposition of the shares, and they
always allowed the heirs-at-law to receive the share of a deceased member.

The wisdom of this arrangement was quickly shown, for "about the time of the building of said
playhouse and galleries, or shortly after," William Kempe decided to withdraw from the enterprise.
He had to dispose of his share to the other parties in the "joint tenancy," Shakespeare, Heminges,
Phillips, and Pope, who at once divided it equally among themselves, and again went through
the process necessary to place that share in "joint tenancy." After the retirement of Kempe,
the organization, it will be observed, consisted of six men, and the shares were eight in number,
owned as follows: Richard Burbage and Cuthbert Burbage, each two shares, Shakespeare, Heminges,
Phillips, and Pope, each one share.

The tract of land on which the new playhouse was to be erected is minutely described in the
lease[385] as follows:

     All that parcel of ground just recently before enclosed and
     made into four separate garden plots, recently in the tenure
     and occupation of Thomas Burt and Isbrand Morris, diers, and
     Lactantius Roper, salter, citizen of London, containing in
     length from east to west two hundred and twenty feet in
     assize or thereabouts, lying and adjoining upon a way or
     lane there on one [the south] side, and abutting upon a
     piece of land called The Park[386] upon the north, and upon
     a garden then or recently in the tenure or occupation of one
     John Cornishe toward the west, and upon another garden plot
     then or recently in the tenure or occupation of one John
     Knowles toward the east, with all the houses, buildings,
     structures, ways, easements, commodities, and appurtenances
     thereunto belonging.... And also all that parcel of land
     just recently before enclosed and made into three separate
     garden plots, whereof two of the same [were] recently in the
     tenure or occupation of John Roberts, carpenter, and another
     recently in the occupation of one Thomas Ditcher, citizen
     and merchant tailor of London ... containing in length from
     east to west by estimation one hundred fifty and six feet of
     assize or thereabouts, and in breadth from the north to the
     south one hundred feet of assize by estimation or
     thereabouts, lying and adjoining upon the other side of the
     way or lane aforesaid, and abutting upon a garden plot there
     then or recently just before in the occupation of William
     Sellers toward the east, and upon one other garden plot
     there, then or recently just before, in the tenure of John
     Burgram, sadler, toward the west, and upon a lane there
     called Maiden Lane towards the south, with all the
     houses....

[Footnote 385: The lease is incorporated in the Heminges-Osteler documents, which Mr. Wallace
has translated from the Anglicized Latin. The original Latin text may be found in Martin, The
Site of the Globe Playhouse of Shakespeare, pp. 161-62. Since, however, that text is faultily
reproduced, I quote Mr. Wallace's translation.]

[Footnote 386: What is meant by "The Park" is a matter of dispute. Some contend that the Park
of the Bishop of Winchester is meant; it may be, however, that some small estate is referred
to. In support of the latter contention, one might cite Collier's Memoirs of Edward Alleyn,
p. 91. Part of the document printed by Collier may have been tampered with, but there is no
reason to suspect the two references to "The Parke."]

This document clearly states that the Globe property was situated to the north of Maiden Lane,
and consequently near the river. Virtually all the contemporary maps of London show the Globe
as so situated. Mr. Wallace has produced some very specific evidence to support the document
cited above, and he claims to have additional evidence as yet unpublished. On the other hand,
there is at least some evidence to indicate that the Globe was situated to the south of Maiden
Lane.[387]

[Footnote 387: For the discussions of the subject, see the Bibliography.]

For the purposes of this book it is sufficient to know that the Globe was "situate in Maiden
Lane"; whether on the north side or the south side is of less importance. More important is
the nature of the site. Strype, in his edition of Stow's Survey, gives this description: "Maiden
Lane, a long straggling place, with ditches on each side, the passage to the houses being over
little bridges, with little garden plots before them, especially on the north side, which is
best both for houses and inhabitants." In Maiden Lane, near one of these ditches or "sewers,"
the Globe was erected; and like the other houses there situated, it was approached over a bridge.[388]
In February, 1606, the Sewer Commission ordered that "the owners of the playhouse called the
Globe, in Maid Lane, shall before the 20 day of April next pull up and take clean out of the
sewer the props or posts which stand under their bridge on the north side of Maid Lane."[389]
The ground on which the building was erected was marshy, and the foundations were made by driving
piles deep into the soil. Ben Jonson tersely writes:[390]

     The Globe, the glory of the Bank.... Flanked with a ditch,
     and forced out of a marish.

[Footnote 388: This was probably not the only means of approach.]

[Footnote 389: Wallace, in the London Times, April 30, 1914, p. 10; Notes and Queries (XI series),
XI, 448.]

[Footnote 390: An Execration upon Vulcan.]

Into the construction of the new playhouse went the timber and other materials secured from
the old Theatre; but much new material, of course, had to be added. It is a mistake to believe
that the Globe was merely the old "Theatre" newly set up on the Bankside, and perhaps strengthened
here and there. When it was completed, it was regarded as the last word in theatrical architecture.
Dekker seems to have had the Globe in mind in the following passage: "How wonderfully is the
world altered! and no marvel, for it has lyein sick almost five thousand years: so that it
is no more like the old Theater du munde, than old Paris Garden is like the King's garden at
Paris. What an excellent workman therefore were he, that could cast the Globe of it into a
new mould."[391] In 1600 Henslowe and Alleyn used the Globe as the model of their new and splendid
Fortune. They sought, indeed, to show some originality by making their playhouse square instead
of round; but this, the one instance in which they departed from the Globe, was a mistake;
and when the Fortune was rebuilt in 1623 it was made circular in shape.

[Footnote 391: The Guls Hornbook, published in 1609, but written earlier.]

A few quotations from the Fortune contract will throw some light upon the Globe:

     With such-like stairs, conveyances, and divisions [to the
     galleries], without and within, as are made and contrived in
     and to the late-erected playhouse ... called the Globe.

     And the said stage to be in all other proportions contrived
     and fashioned like unto the stage of the said playhouse
     called the Globe.

     And the said house, and other things before mentioned to be
     made and done, to be in all other contrivations,
     conveyances, fashions, thing, and things, effected, finished
     and done according to the manner and fashion of the said
     house called the Globe, saving only that all the principal
     and main posts ... shall be square and wrought pilasterwise,
     with carved proportions called satyrs to be placed and set
     on the top of every of the said posts.

What kind of columns were used in the Globe and how they were ornamented, we do not know, but
presumably they were round. Jonson, in Every Man Out of His Humour, presented on the occasion
of, or shortly after, the opening of the Globe in 1599, says of one of his characters: "A well-timbered
fellow! he would have made a good column an he had been thought on when the house was abuilding."[392]
That Jonson thought well of the new playhouse is revealed in several places; he speaks with
some enthusiasm of "this fair-fitted Globe,"[393] and in the passage already quoted he calls
it "the glory of the Bank."

[Footnote 392: Jonson's Works, ed. Cunningham, I, 71.]

[Footnote 393: In the first quarto edition of Every Man Out of His Humour.]

In shape the building was unquestionably polygonal or circular, most probably polygonal on
the outside and circular within. Mr. E.K. Chambers thinks it possible that it was square;[394]
but there is abundant evidence to show that it was not. The very name, Globe, would hardly
be suitable to a square building; Jonson describes the interior as a "round";[395] the ballad
on the burning of the house refers to the roof as being "round as a tailor's clew"; and the
New Globe, which certainly was not square, was erected on the old foundation.[396] The frame,
we know, was of timber, and the roof of thatch. In front of the main door was suspended a sign
of Hercules bearing the globe upon his shoulders,[397] under which was written, says Malone,
the old motto, Totus mundus agit histrionem.[398]

[Footnote 394: The Stage of the Globe, p. 356.]

[Footnote 395: Induction to Every Man Out of His Humour (ed. Cunningham, I, 66).]

[Footnote 396: I have not space to discuss the question further. The foreign traveler who visited
a Bankside theatre, probably the Globe, on July 3, 1600, described it as "Theatrum ad morem
antiquorum Romanorum constructum ex lignis" (London Times, April 11, 1914). Thomas Heywood,
in his Apology for Actors (1612), describing the Roman playhouses, says: "After these they
composed others, but differing in form from the theatre or amphitheatre, and every such was
called Circus, the frame globe-like and merely round." The evidence is cumulative, and almost
inexhaustible.]

[Footnote 397: See Hamlet, II, ii, 378.]

[Footnote 398: Malone, Variorum, III, 67.]

The earliest representation of the building is probably to be found in the Delaram View of
London (opposite page 246), set in the background of an engraving of King James on horseback.
This view, which presents the city as it was in 1603 when James came to the throne, shows the
Bear Garden at the left, polygonal in shape, the Rose in the centre, circular in shape, and
the Globe at the right, polygonal in shape. It is again represented in Visscher's magnificent
View of London, which, though printed in 1616, presents the city as it was several years earlier
(see page 253). The Merian View of 1638 (opposite page 256) is copied from Visscher, and the
View in Howell's Londinopolis (1657) is merely a slavish copy of Merian; these two views, therefore,
so far as the Globe is concerned, have no special value.[399]

[Footnote 399: The circular playhouse in Delaram's View is commonly accepted as a representation
of the First Globe, but without reason. The evidence which establishes the identity of the
several playhouses pictured in the various maps of the Bankside comes from a careful study
of the Bear Garden, the Hope, the Rose, the First Globe, the Second Globe, and their sites,
together with a study of all the maps and views of London, considered separately and in relation
to one another. Such evidence is too complicated to be given here in full, but it is quite
conclusive.]

The cost of the finished building is not exactly known. Mr. Wallace observes that it was erected
"at an original cost, according to a later statement, of £600, but upon better evidence approximately
£400."[400] I am not aware of the "better evidence" to which Mr. Wallace refers,[401] nor do
I know whether the estimate of £400 includes the timber and materials of the old Theatre furnished
by the Burbages. If the Theatre of 1576 cost nearly £700, and the second Globe cost £1400,
the sum of £400 seems too small.

[Footnote 400: The London Times, October 2, 1909.]

[Footnote 401: Possibly he gives this evidence in his The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars,
p. 29, note 4.]

Nor do we know exactly when the Globe was finished and opened to the public. On May 16, 1599,
a post-mortem inquisition of the estate of Sir Thomas Brend, father of Sir Nicholas, was taken.
Among his other properties in Southwark was listed the Globe playhouse, described as "vna domo
de novo edificata ... in occupacione Willielmi Shakespeare et aliorum."[402] From this statement
Mr. Wallace infers that the Globe was finished and opened before May 16, 1599. Though this
is possible, the words used seem hardly to warrant the conclusion. However, we may feel sure
that the actors, the Lord Chamberlain's Men, had moved into the building before the end of
the summer.

[Footnote 402: Wallace, in the London Times, May 1, 1914.]

Almost at once they rose to the position of leadership in the drama, for both Shakespeare and
Burbage were now at the height of their powers. It is true that in 1601 the popularity of the
Children at Blackfriars, and the subsequent "War of the Theatres" interfered somewhat with
their success; but the interference was temporary, and from this time on until the closing
of the playhouses in 1642, the supremacy of the Globe players was never really challenged.
When James came to the throne, he recognized this supremacy by taking them under his royal
patronage. On May 19, 1603, he issued to them a patent to play as the King's Men[403]--an honor
that was as well deserved as it was signal.

[Footnote 403: Printed in The Malone Society Collections, I, 264.]

In the autumn of 1608 the proprietors of the Globe acquired the Blackfriars Theatre for the
use of their company during the severe winter months. This splendid building, situated in the
very heart of the city, was entirely roofed in, and could be comfortably heated in cold weather.
Henceforth the open-air Globe was used only during the pleasant season of the year; that is,
according to the evidence of the Herbert Manuscript, from about the first of May until the
first of November.

On June 29, 1613, the Globe caught fire during the performance of a play, and was burned to
the ground--the first disaster of the sort recorded in English theatrical history. The event
aroused great interest in London, and as a result we have numerous accounts of the catastrophe
supplying us with full details. We learn that on a warm "sunne-shine" afternoon the large building
was "filled with people"--among whom were Ben Jonson, John Taylor (the Water-Poet), and Sir
Henry Wotton--to witness a new play by William Shakespeare and John Fletcher, called All is
True, or, as we now know it, Henry VIII, produced with unusual magnificence. Upon the entrance
of the King in the fourth scene of the first act, two cannon were discharged in a royal salute.
One of the cannon hurled a bit of its wadding upon the roof and set fire to the thatch; but
persons in the audience were so interested in the play that for a time they paid no attention
to the fire overhead. As a result they were soon fleeing for their lives; and within "one short
hour" nothing was left of the "stately" Globe.

I quote below some of the more interesting contemporary accounts of
this notable event. I will entertain you at
     the present with what happened this week at the Bankside. Now King Henry, making a
     masque at the Cardinal Wolsey's house, and certain cannons
     being shot off at his entry, some of the paper or other
     stuff wherewith one of them was stopped, did light on the
     thatch, where being thought at first but an idle smoke, and
     their eyes more attentive to the show, it kindled inwardly,
     and ran round like a train, consuming within less than an
     hour the whole house to the very ground. This was the fatal
     period of that virtuous fabrick; wherein yet nothing did
     perish but wood and straw, and a few forsaken cloaks; only
     one man had his breeches set on fire, that would perhaps
     have broiled him, if he had not, by the benefit of a
     provident wit, put it out with bottle ale.[405]

[Footnote 405: Reliquiæ Wottonianæ (ed. 1672), p. 425.]

John Chamberlain, writing to Sir Ralph Winwood, July 8, 1613, refers to the accident thus:

     The burning of the Globe or playhouse on the Bankside on St.
     Peter's Day cannot escape you; which fell out by a peal of
     chambers (that I know not upon what occasion were to be used
     in the play), the tampin or stopple of one of them lighting
     in the thatch that cover'd the house, burn'd it down to the
     ground in less than two hours, with a dwelling house
     adjoining; and it was a great marvel and fair grace of God
     that the people had so little harm, having but two narrow
     doors to get out.[406]

[Footnote 406: Ralph Winwood, Memorials of Affairs of State (ed. 1725), III, 469.]

The Reverend Thomas Lorkin writes from London to Sir Thomas Puckering under the date of June
30, 1613:

     No longer since than yesterday, while Burbage's company were
     acting at the Globe the play of Henry VIII, and there
     shooting off certain chambers in way of triumph, the fire
     catched and fastened upon the thatch of the house, and there
     burned so furiously, as it consumed the whole house, all in
     less than two hours, the people having enough to do to save
     themselves.[407]

[Footnote 407: Printed in Birch, The Court and Times of James the First (1849), I, 251.]

A contemporary ballad[408] gives a vivid and amusing account of the disaster:

     A Sonnet upon the Pitiful Burning of the Globe
     Playhouse in London

     Now sit thee down, Melpomene,
     Wrapt in a sea-coal robe,
     And tell the dolefull tragedy
     That late was played at Globe;
     For no man that can sing and say
     Was scared on St. Peter's day.
       Oh sorrow, pitiful sorrow, and yet all this is true.[409]

     All you that please to understand,
     Come listen to my story;
     To see Death with his raking brand
     Mongst such an auditory;
     Regarding neither Cardinall's might,
     Nor yet the rugged face of Henry the eight.
       Oh sorrow, etc.

     This fearful fire began above,
     A wonder strange and true,
     And to the stage-house did remove,
     As round as taylor's clew,
     And burnt down both beam and snagg,
     And did not spare the silken flagg.
       Oh sorrow, etc.

     Out run the Knights, out run the lords,
     And there was great ado;
     Some lost their hats, and some their swords;
     Then out run Burbage, too.
     The reprobates, though drunk on Monday,
     Prayd for the fool and Henry Condy.
       Oh sorrow, etc.

     The periwigs and drum-heads fry
     Like to a butter firkin;
     A woeful burning did betide
     To many a good buff jerkin.
     Then with swolen eyes, like drunken Flemminges
     Distressed stood old stuttering Heminges.
       Oh sorrow, etc.

[Footnote 408: Printed by Haslewood in The Gentleman's Magazine (1816), from an old manuscript
volume of poems. Printed also by Halliwell-Phillipps (Outlines, I, 310) "from a manuscript
of the early part of the seventeenth century of unquestionable authenticity." Perhaps it is
the same as the "Doleful Ballad" entered in the Stationers' Register, 1613. I follow Halliwell-Phillipps's
text, but omit the last three stanzas.]

[Footnote 409: Punning on the title All is True.]

Ben Jonson, who saw the disaster, left us the following brief account:

                   The Globe, the glory of the Bank,
     Which, though it were the fort of the whole parish,
     Flanked with a ditch, and forced out of a marish,
     I saw with two poor chambers taken in,
     And razed ere thought could urge this might have been!
     See the world's ruins! nothing but the piles
     Left--and wit since to cover it with tiles.[410]

[Footnote 410: An Execration upon Vulcan.]

The players were not seriously inconvenienced, for they could shift to their other house, the
Blackfriars, in the city. The owners of the building, however, suffered a not inconsiderable
pecuniary loss. For a time they hesitated about rebuilding, one cause of their hesitation being
the short term that their lease of the ground had to run. Possibly a second cause was a doubt
as to the ownership of the ground, arising from certain transactions recorded below. In October,
1600, Sir Nicholas Brend had been forced to transfer the Globe estate, with other adjacent
property, to Sir Matthew Brown and John Collett as security for a debt of £2500; and a few
days after he died. Since the son and heir, Matthew Brend, was a child less than two years
old, an uncle, Sir John Bodley, was appointed trustee. In 1608 Bodley, by unfair means, it
seems, purchased from Collett the Globe property, and thus became the landlord of the actors.
But young Matthew Brend was still under age, and Bodley's title to the property was not regarded
as above suspicion.[411]

[Footnote 411: These interesting facts were revealed by Mr. Wallace in the London Times, April
30 and May 1, 1914.]

Four months after the burning of the Globe, on October 26, 1613, Sir John Bodley granted the
proprietors of the building a renewal of the lease with an extension of the term until December
25, 1635.[412] But a lease from Bodley alone, in view of the facts just indicated, was not
deemed sufficient; so on February 14, 1614, Heminges, the two Burbages, and Condell visited
the country-seat of the Brends, and secured the signature of the young Matthew Brend, and of
his mother as guardian, to a lease of the Globe site with a term ending on December 25, 1644.

[Footnote 412: Did he increase the amount of the rental to £25 per annum? The rent paid for
the Blackfriars was £40 per annum; in 1635 the young actors state that the housekeepers paid
for both playhouses "not above £65."]

Protected by these two leases, the Globe sharers felt secure; and they went forward apace with
the erection of their new playhouse. They made an assessment of "£50 or £60" upon each share.[413]
Since at this time there were fourteen shares, the amount thus raised was £700 or £840. This
would probably be enough to erect a building as large and as well equipped as the old Globe.
But the proprietors determined upon a larger and a very much handsomer building. As Howes,
the continuer of Stow's Annals, writes, "it was new builded in far fairer manner than before";
or as John Taylor, the Water-Poet, puts it:

     As gold is better that's in fire tried,
     So is the Bankside Globe that late was burn'd.[414]

[Footnote 413: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 60.]

[Footnote 414: Works (1630), p. 31; The Spenser Society reprint, p. 515.]

Naturally the cost of rebuilding exceeded the original estimate. Heminges tells us that on
one share, or one-fourteenth, he was required to pay for "the re-edifying about the sum of
£120."[415] This would indicate a total cost of "about" £1680. Heminges should know, for he
was the business manager of the organization; and his truthfulness cannot be questioned. Since,
however, the adjective "about," especially when multiplied by fourteen, leaves a generous margin
of uncertainty, it is gratifying to have a specific statement from one of the sharers in 1635
that the owners had "been at the charge of £1400 in building of the said house upon the burning
down of the former."[416] Heminges tells us that "he found that the re-edifying of the said
playhouse would be a very great charge," and that he so "doubted what benefit would arise thereby"
that he actually gave away half of one share "to Henry Condell, gratis."[417] But his fears
were unfounded. We learn from Witter that after the rebuilding of the Globe the "yearly value"
of a share was greater "by much" than it had been before.[418]

[Footnote 415: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 61.]

[Footnote 416: Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines, I, 316. This evidence seems to me unimpeachable.
I should add, however, that Mr. Wallace considers the estimate "excessive," and says that he
has "other contemporary documents showing the cost was far less than £1400." (The London Times,
October 2, 1909.)]

[Footnote 417: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 61. There is, I think, no
truth in the statement made by the inaccurate annotator of the Phillipps copy of Stow's Annals,
that the Globe was built "at the great charge of King James and many noblemen and others."
(See The Academy, October 28, 1882, p. 314.) The Witter-Heminges documents sufficiently disprove
that. We may well believe, however, that the King and his noblemen were interested in the new
building, and encouraged the actors in many ways.]

[Footnote 418: Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p. 70.]

The New Globe, like its predecessor, was built of timber,[419] and on the same site--indeed
the carpenters made use of the old foundation, which seems not to have been seriously injured.
In a "return" of 1634, preserved at St. Saviour's, we read: "The Globe playhouse, near Maid
Lane, built by the company of players, with a dwelling house thereto adjoining, built with
timber, about 20 years past, upon an old foundation."[420] In spite of the use made of the
old foundation, the new structure was unquestionably larger than the First Globe; Marmion,
in the Prologue to Holland's Leaguer, acted at Salisbury Court in 1634, speaks of "the vastness
of the Globe," and Shirley, in the Prologue to Rosania, applies the adjective "vast" to the
building. Moreover, the builders had "the wit," as Jonson tells us, "to cover it with tiles."
John Taylor, the Water-Poet, writes:

     For where before it had a thatched hide,
     Now to a stately theatre is turn'd.

[Footnote 419: I see no reason to accept Mr. Wallace's suggestion (The Children of the Chapel
at Blackfriars, p. 34, note 7) that "it seems questionable, but not unlikely, that the timber
framework was brick-veneered and plastered over." Mr. Wallace mistakenly accepts Wilkinson's
view of the second Fortune as genuine.]

[Footnote 420: Rendle, Bankside, p. xvii.]

The Second Globe is represented, but unsatisfactorily, in Hollar's View of London, dated 1647
(opposite page 260). It should be noted that the artist was in banishment from 1643 (at which
time the Globe was still standing) until 1652, and hence, in drawing certain buildings, especially
those not reproduced in earlier views of London, he may have had to rely upon his memory. This
would explain the general vagueness of his representation of the Globe.

The construction was not hurried, for the players had Blackfriars as a home. Under normal conditions
they did not move from the city to the Bankside until some time in May; and shortly after that
date, in the early summer of 1614, the New Globe was ready for them. John Chamberlain writes
to Mrs. Alice Carleton on June 30, 1614:

     I have not seen your sister Williams since I came to town,
     though I have been there twice. The first time she was at a
     neighbor's house at cards, and the next she was gone to the
     New Globe to a play. Indeed, I hear much speech of this new
     playhouse, which is said to be the fairest that ever was in
     England.[421]

[Footnote 421: Birch, The Court and Times of James the First, I, 329; quoted by Wallace, The
Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, p. 35.]

With this New Globe Shakespeare had little to do, for his career as a playwright had been run,
and probably he had already retired from acting. Time, indeed, was beginning to thin out the
little band of friends who had initiated and made famous the Globe organization. Thomas Pope
had died in 1603, Augustine Phillips in 1605, William Slye in 1608, and, just a few months
after the opening of the new playhouse, William Osteler, who had been admitted to the partnership
in 1611. He had begun his career as a child-actor at Blackfriars, had later joined the King's
Men, and had married Heminges's daughter Thomasine.

A more serious blow to the company, however, fell in April, 1616, when Shakespeare himself
died. To the world he had been "the applause, delight, the wonder" of the stage; but to the
members of the Globe Company he had been for many years a "friend and fellow." Only Burbage
and Heminges (described in 1614 as "old Heminges"), now remained of the original venturers.
And Burbage passed away on March 13, 1619:

     He's gone! and with him what a world are dead
     Which he reviv'd--to be revived so
     No more. Young Hamlet, old Hieronimo,
     Kind Lear, the grieved Moor, and more beside
     That lived in him have now for ever died![422]

[Footnote 422: From a folio MS. in the Huth Library, printed by J.P. Collier in The History
of English Dramatic Poetry (1879), I, 411, and by various others.]

Many elegies in a similar vein were written celebrating his wonderful powers as an actor; yet
the tribute that perhaps affects us most deals with him merely as a man. The Earl of Pembroke,
writing to the Ambassador to Germany, gives the court news about the mighty ones of the kingdom:
"My Lord of Lenox made a great supper to the French Ambassador this night here, and even now
all the company are at a play; which I, being tender-hearted, could not endure to see so soon
after the loss of my old acquaintance Burbage."[423]

[Footnote 423: Printed by Mrs. Stopes, Burbage and Shakespeare's Stage, p. 117, with many other
interesting references to the great actor.]

In 1623 Heminges and Condell, with great "care and paine," collected and published the plays
of Shakespeare, "onely to keep the memory of so worthy a Friend and Fellow alive"; and shortly
after, they too died, Condell in 1627 and Heminges in 1630.

After the passing of this group of men, whose names are so familiar to us, the history of the
playhouse seems less important, and may be chronicled briefly.

When young Matthew Brend came of age he recovered possession of the Globe property by a decree
of the Court of Wards. Apparently he accepted the lease executed by his uncle and guardian,
Bodley, by which the actors were to remain in possession of the Globe until December 25, 1635;
but in 1633 he sought to cancel the lease he himself had executed as a minor, by which the
actors were to remain in possession until 1644. His purpose in thus seeking to gain possession
of the Globe was to lease it to other actors at a material increase in his profits.[424] Naturally
the owners of the Globe were alarmed, and they brought suit in the Court of Requests. In 1635,
one of the sharers, John Shanks, declares that he "is without any hope to renew" the lease;
and he refers thus to the suit against Brend: "When your suppliant purchased his parts [in
1634] he had no certainty thereof more than for one year in the Globe, and there was a chargeable
suit then pending in the Court of Requests between Sir Mathew Brend, Knight, and the lessees
of the Globe and their assigns, for the adding of nine years to their lease in consideration
that their predecessors had formerly been at the charge of £1400 in building of the said house."[425]
The lessees ultimately won their contention, and thus secured the right to occupy the Globe
until December 25, 1644--a term which, as it happened, was quite long enough, for the Puritans
closed all playhouses in 1642.

[Footnote 424: Wallace, "Shakespeare and the Globe," in the London Times, April 30 and May
1, 1914.]

[Footnote 425: The Petition of the Young Actors, printed by Halliwell-Phillipps, Outlines,
I, 312. Mrs. Stopes, in Burbage and Shakespeare's Stage, p. 129, refers to a record of the
suit mentioned by Shanks, dated February 6, 1634.]

What disposition, if any, the sharers made of the Globe between 1642 and 1644 we do not know.
But before the lease expired, it seems, Brend demolished the playhouse and erected tenements
on its site. In the manuscript notes to the Phillipps copy of Stow's Annals, we find the statement
that the Globe was "pulled down to the ground by Sir Mathew Brend, on Monday the 15 of April,
1644, to make tenements in the room of it";[426] and the statement is verified by a mortgage,
executed in 1706, between Elizabeth, the surviving daughter and heir of Thomas Brend, and one
William James, citizen of London. The mortgage concerns "all those messuages or tenements ...
most of which ... were erected and built where the late playhouse called the Globe stood, and
upon the ground thereunto belonging."[427]

[Footnote 426: Printed in The Academy, October 28, 1882, p. 314. Should we read the date as
1644/5?]

[Footnote 427: William Martin, The Site of the Globe, p. 171.]

After this the history of the property becomes obscure. Mrs. Thrale (later Mrs. Piozzi), the
friend of Samuel Johnson, whose residence was near by in Deadman's Place, thought that she
saw certain "remains of the Globe" discovered by workmen in the employ of her husband:[428]
"For a long time, then,--or I thought it such,--my fate was bound up with the old Globe Theatre,
upon the Bankside, Southwark; the alley it had occupied having been purchased and [the tenements]
thrown down by Mr. Thrale to make an opening before the windows of our dwelling-house. When
it lay desolate in a black heap of rubbish, my mother one day in a joke called it the Ruins
of Palmyra; and after that they had laid it down in a grass-plot Palmyra was the name it went
by.... But there were really curious remains of the old Globe Playhouse, which though hexagonal
in form without, was round within." In spite of serious difficulties in this narrative it is
possible that the workmen, in digging the ground preparatory to laying out the garden, uncovered
the foundation of the Globe, which, it will be recalled, was formed of piles driven deep into
the soil, and so well made that it resisted the fire of 1613.[429]

[Footnote 428: Printed in The Builder, March 26, 1910, from the Conway MSS. in Mrs. Thrale's
handwriting.]

[Footnote 429: For later discoveries of supposed Globe relics, all very doubtful, see the London
Times, October 8, 1909; George Hubbard, The Site of the Globe Theatre; and William Martin,
The Site of the Globe, p. 201.]

At the present time the site of the Globe is covered by the extensive brewery of Messrs. Barclay,
Perkins, and Company. Upon one of the walls of the brewery, on the south side of Park Street,
which was formerly Maiden Lane, has been placed a bronze memorial tablet[430] showing in relief
the Bankside, with what is intended to be the Globe Playhouse conspicuously displayed in the
foreground. This is a circular building designed after the circular playhouse in the Speed-Hondius
View of London, and represents, as I have tried to show, not the Globe, but the Rose. At the
left side of the tablet is a bust of the poet modeled after the Droeshout portrait. At the
right is the simple inscription:

     HERE STOOD THE GLOBE PLAYHOUSE OF SHAKESPEARE

[Footnote 430: The tablet was designed by Dr. William Martin and executed by Professor Lanteri.
For photographs of it and of the place in which it is erected, see The London Illustrated News,
October 9, 1909, CXXXV, 500.]

Yet it is very doubtful whether the Globe really stood there. Mr. Wallace has produced good
evidence to show that the building was on the north side of Park Street near the river; and
in the course of the present study I have found that site generally confirmed.

CHAPTER XIII

THE FORTUNE

The erection of the Globe on the Bankside within a few hundred yards of the Rose was hardly
gratifying to the Admiral's Men. Not only did it put them in close competition with the excellent
Burbage-Shakespeare organization, but it caused their playhouse (now nearly a quarter of a
century old, and said to be in a state of "dangerous decay") to suffer in comparison with the
new and far handsomer Globe, "the glory of the Bank." Accordingly, before the Globe had been
in operation much more than half a year, Henslowe and Alleyn decided to move to another section
of London, and to erect there a playhouse that should surpass the Globe both in size and in
magnificence. To the authorities, however, they gave as reasons for abandoning the Rose, first,
"the dangerous decay" of the building, and secondly, "for that the same standeth very noisome
for resort of people in the winter time."

The new playhouse was undertaken by Henslowe and Alleyn jointly, although the exact arrangement
between them is not now clear. Alleyn seems to have advanced the money and to have held the
titles of ownership; but on April 4, 1601, he leased to Henslowe a moiety (or one-half interest)
in the playhouse and other properties connected with it for a period of twenty-four years at
an annual rental of £8--a sum far below the real value of the moiety.[431]

[Footnote 431: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 25; Wallace, Three London Theatres, p. 53. Later,
Alleyn rented to the actors the playhouse alone for £200 per annum. In the document, Alleyn
v. William Henslowe, published by Mr. Wallace in Three London Theatres, p. 52, it is revealed
that this annual rental of £8 was canceled by Alleyn's rental of a house from Henslowe on the
Bankside; hence no actual payments by Henslowe appear in the Henslowe-Alleyn papers.]

Whatever the details of the arrangement between the two partners, the main outlines of their
procedure are clear. On December 22, 1599, Alleyn purchased for £240 a thirty-three-year lease[432]
of a plot of ground situated to the north of the city, in the Parish of St. Giles without Cripplegate.
This plot of ground, we are told, stood "very tolerable, near unto the Fields, and so far distant
and remote from any person or place of account as that none can be annoyed thereby";[433] and
yet, as the Earl of Nottingham wrote, it was "very convenient for the ease of people."[434]

[Footnote 432: Later, by a series of negotiations ending in 1610, Alleyn secured the freehold
of the property. The total cost to him was £800. See Greg, Henslowe Papers, pp. 14, 17, 108.]

[Footnote 433: Ibid., p. 50.]

[Footnote 434: Ibid., p. 49; cf. p. 51.]

The property thus acquired lay between Golding Lane and Whitecross Street, two parallel thoroughfares
running north and south. There were tenements on the edge of the property facing Whitecross
Street, tenements on the edge facing Golding Lane, and an open space between. Alleyn and Henslowe
planned to erect their new playhouse in this open space "between Whitecross Street and Golding
Lane," and to make "a way leading to it" from Golding Lane. The ground set aside for the playhouse
is described as "containing in length from east to west one hundred twenty and seven feet and
a half, a little more or less, and in breadth, from north to south, one hundred twenty and
nine feet, a little more or less."[435]

[Footnote 435: Collier, The Alleyn Papers, p. 98. For a slightly different measurement of the
plot see Collier, Memoirs of Edward Alleyn, p. 167.]

The lease of this property having been consummated on December 22, 1599, on January 8, 1600,
Henslowe and Alleyn signed a contract with the carpenter, Peter Street (who had recently gained
valuable experience in building the Globe), to erect the new playhouse. The contract called
for the completion of the building by July 25, 1600, provided, however, the workmen were "not
by any authority restrained."

The latter clause may indicate that Peter Street anticipated difficulties. If so, he was not
mistaken, for when early in January his workmen began to assemble material for the erection
of the building, the authorities, especially those of the Parish of St. Giles, promptly interfered.
Alleyn thereupon appealed to the patron of the troupe, the Earl of Nottingham, the Lord Admiral.
On January 12, 1600, Nottingham issued a warrant to the officers of the county "to permit and
suffer my said servant [Edward Alleyn] to proceed in the effecting and furnishing of the said
new house, without any your let or molestation toward him or any of his workmen."[436] This
warrant, however, seems not to have prevented the authorities of St. Giles from continuing
their restraint. Alleyn was then forced to play his trump card--through his great patron to
secure from the Privy Council itself a warrant for the construction of the building. First,
however, by offering "to give a very liberal portion of money weekly" towards the relief of
"the poor in the parish of St. Giles," he persuaded many of the inhabitants to sign a document
addressed to the Privy Council, in which they not only gave their full consent to the erection
of the playhouse, but actually urged "that the same might proceed."[437] This document he placed
in the hands of Nottingham to use in influencing the Council. The effort was successful. On
April 8 the Council issued a warrant "to the Justices of the Peace of the County of Middlesex,
especially of St. Giles without Cripplegate, and to all others whom it shall concern," that
they should permit Henslowe and Alleyn "to proceed in the effecting and finishing of the same
new house."[438]

[Footnote 436: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 49.]

[Footnote 437: Ibid., p. 50.]

[Footnote 438: Ibid., p. 51.]

This warrant, of course, put an end to all interference by local authorities. But as the playhouse
reared itself high above the walls of the city to the north, the Puritans were aroused to action.
They made this the occasion for a most violent attack on actors and theatres in general, and
on the Fortune in particular. With this attack the city authorities, for reasons of their own,
heartily sympathized, but they had no jurisdiction over the Parish of St. Giles, or over the
other localities in which playhouses were situated. Since the Privy Council had specially authorized
the erection of the Fortune, the Lord Mayor shifted the attack to that body, and himself dispatched
an urgent request to the Lords for reformation.

The first part of this order, limiting the playhouses and companies to two, was merely a repetition
of the order of 1598.[439] It meant that the Lords of the Privy Council formally licensed the
Admiral's and the Lord Chamberlain's Companies to play in London (of course the Lords might,
when they saw fit, license other companies for specific periods). The second part of the order,
limiting the number of performances, was more serious, for no troupe could afford to act only
twice a week. The order if carried out would mean the ruin of the Fortune and the Globe Companies.
But it was not carried out. The actors, as we learn from Henslowe's Diary, did not restrict
themselves to two plays a week. Why, then, did the Lords issue this order, and why was it not
put into effect? A study of the clever way in which Alleyn, Nottingham, and the Privy Council
overcame the opposition of the puritanical officers of St. Giles who were interfering with
the erection of the Fortune will suggest the explanation. The Lords were making a shrewd move
to quiet the noisy enemies of the drama. They did not intend that the Admiral's and the Chamberlain's
Men should be driven out of existence; they were merely meeting fanaticism with craft.

[Footnote 439: See page 174.]

Alleyn and Henslowe must have understood this,--possibly they learned it directly from their
patron Nottingham,--for they proceeded with the erection of their expensive building. The work,
however, had been so seriously delayed by the restraints of the local authorities that the
foundations were not completed until May 8.[440] On that day carpenters were brought from Windsor,
and set to the task of erecting the frame. Since the materials had been accumulating on the
site since January 17, the work of erection must have proceeded rapidly. The daily progress
of this work is marked in Henslowe's Diary by the dinners of Henslowe with the contractor,
Peter Street. On August 8, these dinners ceased, so that on that date, or shortly after, we
may assume, the building proper was finished.[441]

[Footnote 440: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 10.]

[Footnote 441: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 158-59.]

For erecting the building Street received £440. But this did not include the painting of the
woodwork (which, if we may judge from De Witt's description of the Swan, must have been costly),
or the equipment of the stage. We learn from Alleyn's memoranda that the final cost of the
playhouse was £520.[442] Hence, after Street's work of erection was finished in August, the
entire building had to be painted, and the stage properly equipped with curtains, hangings,
machines, etc. This must have occupied at least two months. From Henslowe's Diary it appears
that the playhouse was first used about the end of November or the early part of December,
1600.[443]

[Footnote 442: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 108.]

[Footnote 443: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 124.]

The original contract of Henslowe and Alleyn with Peter Street for the erection of the Fortune,
preserved among the papers at Dulwich College, supplies us with some very exact details of
the size and shape of the building. Although the document is long, and is couched in the legal
verbiage of the day, it will repay careful study. For the convenience of the reader I quote
below its main specifications:[444]

     Foundation. A good, sure, and strong foundation, of piles,
     brick, lime, and sand, both without and within, to be
     wrought one foot of assize at the least above the ground.

     Frame. The frame of the said house to be set square, and
     to contain fourscore foot of lawful assize every way square
     without, and fifty-five foot of like assize square every way
     within.

     Materials. And shall also make all the said frame in every
     point for scantlings larger and bigger in assize than the
     scantlings of the said new-erected house called the Globe.

     Exterior. To be sufficiently enclosed without with lath,
     lime, and hair.

     Stairs. With such like stairs, conveyances, and divisions,
     without and within, as are made and contrived in and to the
     late erected playhouse ... called the Globe.... And the
     staircases thereof to be sufficiently enclosed without with
     lath, lime, and hair.

     Height of galleries. And the said frame to contain three
     stories in height; the first, or lower story to contain
     twelve foot of lawful assize in height; the second story
     eleven foot of lawful assize in height; and the third, or
     upper story, to contain nine foot of lawful assize in
     height.

     Breadth of galleries. All which stories shall contain
     twelve foot of lawful assize in breadth throughout. Besides
     a jutty forward in either of the said two upper stories of
     ten inches of lawful assize.

     Protection of lowest gallery. The lower story of the said
     frame withinside ... [to be] paled in below with good,
     strong, and sufficient new oaken boards.... And the said
     lower story to be also laid over and fenced with strong iron
     pikes.

     Divisions of galleries. With four convenient divisions for
     gentlemen's rooms, and other sufficient and convenient
     divisions for two-penny rooms.... And the gentlemen's rooms
     and two-penny rooms to be ceiled with lath, lime, and hair.

     Seats. With necessary seats to be placed and set, as well
     in those rooms as throughout all the rest of the galleries.

     Stage. With a stage and tiring-house to be made, erected,
     and set up within the said frame; with a shadow or cover
     over the said stage. Which stage shall be placed and set (as
     also the staircases of the said frame) in such sort as is
     prefigured in a plot thereof drawn. [The plot has been
     lost.] And which stage shall contain in length forty and
     three foot of lawful assize, and in breadth to extend to
     the middle of the yard of the said house.

     Tiring-house. With convenient windows and lights, glazed,
     to the said tiring-house.

     Flooring. And all the floors of the said galleries,
     stories, and stage to be boarded with good and sufficient
     new deal boards, of the whole thickness where need shall be.

     Columns. All the principal and main posts of the said
     frame and stage forward shall be square, and wrought
     pilaster-wise, with carved proportions called satyrs to be
     placed and set on the top of every of the said posts.

     Roof. And the said frame, stage, and staircases to be
     covered with tile.

     Miscellaneous.

[Footnote 444: For the full document see Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 4.]

It is rather unfortunate for us that the building was to be in so many respects a copy of the
Globe, for that deprives us of further detailed specifications; and it is unfortunate, too,
that the plan or drawing showing the arrangement of the stage was not preserved with the rest
of the document. Yet we are able to derive much exact information from the contract; and with
this information, at least two modern architects have made reconstructions of the building.[445]

[Footnote 445: See the Bibliography. A model of the Fortune by Mr. W.H. Godfrey is preserved
in the Dramatic Museum of Columbia University in New York City, and a duplicate is in the Museum
of European Culture at the University of Illinois. For a description of the model see the Architect
and Builders' Journal (London), August 16, 1911.]

No representation of the exterior of the Fortune has come down to us. In the so-called Ryther
Map of London, there is, to be sure, what seems to be a crude representation of the playhouse
(see page 278); but if this is really intended for the Fortune, it does little more than mark
the location. Yet one can readily picture in his imagination the playhouse--a plastered structure,
eighty feet square and approximately forty feet high,[446] with small windows marking the galleries,
a turret and flagpole surmounting the red-tiled roof, and over the main entrance a sign representing
Dame Fortune:

     I'le rather stand here,
     Like a statue in the fore-front of your house,
     For ever, like the picture of Dame Fortune
     Before the Fortune Playhouse.[447]

[Footnote 446: The three galleries (twelve, eleven, and nine feet, respectively) were thirty-two
feet in height; but to this must be added the elevation of the first gallery above the yard,
the space occupied by the ceiling and flooring of the several galleries, and, finally, the roof.]

[Footnote 447: Thomas Heywood, The English Traveller (1633), ed. Pearson, IV, 84. We do not
know when the play was written, but the reference is probably to the New Fortune, built in
1623. Heywood generally uses "picture" in the sense of "statue."]

Nor is there any pictorial representation of the interior of the playhouse. In the absence
of such, I offer the reader a verbal picture of the interior as seen from the stage during
the performance of a play. In Middleton and Dekker's The Roaring Girl, acted at the Fortune,
Sir Alexander shows to his friends his magnificent house. Advancing to the middle of the stage,
and pointing out over the building, he asks them how they like it:

     Goshawk. I like the prospect best.

     Laxton.                           See how 't is furnished!

     Sir Davy. A very fair sweet room.

     Sir Alex.                         Sir Davy Dapper,
     The furniture that doth adorn this room
     Cost many a fair grey groat ere it came here;
     But good things are most cheap when they're most dear.
     Nay, when you look into my galleries,
     How bravely they're trimm'd up, you all shall swear
     You're highly pleas'd to see what's set down there:
     Stories of men and women, mix'd together,
     Fair ones with foul, like sunshine in wet weather;
     Within one square a thousand heads are laid,
     So close that all of heads the room seems made;
     As many faces there, fill'd with blithe looks
     Shew like the promising titles of new books
     Writ merrily, the readers being their own eyes,
     Which seem to move and to give plaudities;
     And here and there, whilst with obsequious ears
     Throng'd heaps do listen, a cut-purse thrusts and leers
     With hawk's eyes for his prey; I need not shew him;
     By a hanging, villainous look yourselves may know him,
     The face is drawn so rarely: then, sir, below,
     The very floor, as 't were, waves to and fro,
     And, like a floating island, seems to move
     Upon a sea bound in with shores above.

     All. These sights are excellent![448]

[Footnote 448: The Roaring Girl, I, i. Pointed out by M.W. Sampson, Modern Language Notes,
June, 1915.]

A closer view of this audience--"men and women, mix'd together, fair ones with foul"--is furnished
by one of the letters of Orazio Busino,[449] the chaplain of the Venetian Embassy, who visited
the Fortune playhouse shortly after his arrival in London in 1617:

     The other day, therefore, they determined on taking me to
     one of the many theatres where plays are performed, and we
     saw a tragedy, which diverted me very little, especially as
     I cannot understand a word of English, though some little
     amusement may be derived from gazing at the very costly
     dresses of the actors, and from the various interludes of
     instrumental music and dancing and singing; but the best
     treat was to see such a crowd of nobility so very well
     arrayed that they looked like so many princes, listening as
     silently and soberly as possible. These theatres are
     frequented by a number of respectable and handsome ladies,
     who come freely and seat themselves among the men without
     the slightest hesitation. On the evening in question his
     Excellency [the Venetian Ambassador] and the Secretary were
     pleased to play me a trick by placing me amongst a bevy of
     young women. Scarcely was I seated ere a very elegant dame,
     but in a mask, came and placed herself beside me.... She
     asked me for my address, both in French and English; and on
     my turning a deaf ear, she determined to honour me by
     showing me some fine diamonds on her fingers, repeatedly
     taking off no fewer than three gloves, which were worn one
     over the other.... This lady's bodice was of yellow satin
     richly embroidered, her petticoat of gold tissue with
     stripes, her robe of red velvet with a raised pile, lined
     with yellow muslin, with broad stripes of pure gold. She
     wore an apron of point lace of various patterns; her
     head-tire was highly perfumed, and the collar of white satin
     beneath the delicately-wrought ruff struck me as extremely
     pretty.

[Footnote 449: "Diaries and Despatches of the Venetian Embassy at the Court of King James I,
in the Years 1617, 1618. Translated by Rawdon Brown." (The Quarterly Review, CII, 416.) It
is true that the notice of this letter in The Calendar of State Papers, Venetian, XV, 67, makes
no mention of the Fortune; but the writer in The Quarterly Review, who had before him the entire
manuscript, states positively that the Fortune was the playhouse visited. I have not been able
to examine the manuscript itself, which is preserved in Venice.]

That the players were prepared to entertain distinguished visitors both during the performance
and after is shown by a letter from John Chamberlain, July 21, 1621, to Sir Dudley Carleton.
"The Spanish Ambassador," he writes, "is grown so affable and familiar, that on Monday, with
his whole train, he went to a common play at the Fortune in Golding Lane; and the players (not
to be overcome with courtesy) made him a banquet, when the play was done, in the garden adjoining."[450]

[Footnote 450: Nichols, The Progresses of King James, IV, 67.]

Upon its completion the new building was occupied by the Admiral's Men, for whom it had been
erected. This troupe of players, long famous under the leadership of Edward Alleyn, was now
one of the two companies authorized by the Privy Council, and the chief rival of the Chamberlain's
Men at the Globe. Henslowe was managing their affairs, and numerous poets were writing plays
for them. They continued to act at the Fortune under the name, "The Admiral's Men," until May
5, 1603, when, as Henslowe put it, they "left off play now at the King's coming."[451]

[Footnote 451: Greg, Henslowe's Diary, I, 174.]

After a short interruption on account of the plague, during a part of which time they traveled
in the provinces, the Admiral's Men were taken under the patronage of the youthful Henry, Prince
of Wales, and in the early spring of 1604 they resumed playing at the Fortune under their new
name, "The Prince's Servants."

For a time all went well. But from July, 1607, until December, 1609, the plague was severe
in London, and acting was seriously interrupted. During this long period of hardship for the
players, Henslowe and Alleyn seem to have made an attempt to hold the troupe together by admitting
its chief members to a partnership in the building, just as the Burbages had formerly admitted
their chief players to a partnership in the Globe. At this time there were in the troupe eight
sharers, or chief actors.[452] Henslowe and Alleyn, it seems, proposed to allot to these eight
actors one-fourth of the Fortune property. In other words, according to this scheme, there
were to be thirty-two sharers in the new Fortune organization, Alleyn and Henslowe together
holding three-fourths of the stock, or twelve shares each, and the eight actors together holding
one-fourth of the stock, or one share each. A document was actually drawn up by Henslowe and
Alleyn, with the name of the leader of the Fortune troupe, Thomas Downton, inserted;[453] but
since the document was not executed, the scheme, it is to be presumed, was unsuccessful--at
least, we hear nothing further about it.[454]

[Footnote 452: See the Company's Patent of 1606, in The Malone Society's Collections, I, 268.]

[Footnote 453: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 13.]

[Footnote 454: For an ordinance concerning "lewd jiggs" at the Fortune in 1612, see Middlesex
County Records, II, 83.]

On November 6, 1612, the death of the young Prince of Wales left the company without a "service."
On January 4, 1613, however, a new patent was issued to the players, placing them under the
protection of the Palsgrave, or Elector Palatine, after which date they are known as "The Palsgrave's
Men."

On January 9, 1616, Henslowe, so long associated with the company and the Fortune, died; and
a year later his widow, Agnes, followed him. As a result the entire Fortune property passed
into the hands of Alleyn. But Alleyn, apparently, did not care to be worried with the management
of the playhouse; so on October 31, 1618, he leased it to the Palsgrave's Men for a period
of thirty-one years, at an annual rental of £200 and two rundlets of wine at Christmas.[455]

[Footnote 455: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 27; Young, The History of Dulwich College, II, 260.]

On April 24, 1620, Alleyn executed a deed of grant of lands by which he transferred the Fortune,
along with various other properties, to Dulwich College.[456] But he retained during his lifetime
the whole of the revenues therefrom, and he specifically reserved to himself the right to grant
leases for any length of years. The transference of the title, therefore, in no way affected
the playhouse, and Alleyn continued to manage the property as he had been accustomed to do
in the past.

[Footnote 456: The deed is printed by Young, op. cit., I, 50. The Fortune property, I believe,
is still a part of the endowment of the college.]

His services in this capacity were soon needed, for on December 9, 1621, the Fortune was burned
to the ground. Alleyn records the event in his Diary thus: "Memorandum. This night at 12 of
the clock the Fortune was burnt." In a less laconic fashion John Chamberlain writes to Sir
Dudley Carleton: "On Sunday night here was a great fire at the Fortune in Golding-Lane, the
fairest playhouse in this town. It was quite burnt down in two hours, and all their apparel
and playbooks lost, whereby those poor companions are quite undone."[457]

[Footnote 457: Birch, The Court and Times of James the First, II, 280. Howes, in his continuation
of Stow's Annals (1631), p. 1004, attributes the fire to "negligence of a candle," but gives
no details.]

The "poor companions" thus referred to were, of course, the players, who lost not only their
stock of apparel, playbooks, and stage furniture, but also their lease, which assured them
of a home. Alleyn, however, was quite able and ready to reconstruct the building for them;
and we find him on May 20, 1621, already organizing a syndicate to finance "a new playhouse"
which "there is intended to be erected and set up." The stock of the new enterprise he divided
into twelve equal shares, which he disposed of, as the custom was, in the form of whole and
half shares, reserving for himself only one share.[458] The plot of ground on which the old
playhouse stood he leased to the several sharers for a period of fifty-one years at an annual
rental of £10 13s. 10d. a share, with the express condition that the building to be erected
thereon should never be used for any purpose other than the acting of stage-plays. The sharers
then proceeded to the task of constructing their playhouse. It was proposed to make the new
building larger[459] and handsomer than the old one, and to build it of brick[460] with a tiled
roof--possibly an attempt at fireproof construction. It was decided, also, to abandon the square
shape in favor of the older and more logical circular shape. Wright, in his Historia Histrionica,
describes the New Fortune as "a large, round, brick building,"[461] and Howes assures us that
it was "farre fairer" than the old playhouse.[462] We do not know how much the building cost.
At the outset each sharer was assessed £83 6s. 8d. towards the cost of construction,[463] which
would produce exactly £1000; but the first assessment was not necessarily all that the sharers
were called upon to pay. For example, when the Globe was rebuilt each sharer was at first assessed
"£50 or £60," but before the building was finished each had paid more than £100. So the Fortune
may well have cost more than the original estimate of £1000. In 1656 two expert assessors appointed
by the authorities of Dulwich College to examine the playhouse declared that "the said building
did in our opinions cost building about two thousand pound."[464] This estimate is probably
not far wrong. The playhouse was completed in June or July of 1623, and was again occupied
by the Palsgrave's Men.[465]

[Footnote 458: Greg, Henslowe Papers, pp. 28-30; 112. The names of the sharers are not inspiring:
Thomas Sparks, merchant tailor; William Gwalter, innholder; John Fisher, barber-surgeon; Thomas
Wigpitt, bricklayer; etc.]

[Footnote 459: Prynne, Histriomastix, Epistle Dedicatory.]

[Footnote 460: The writer of the manuscript notes in the Phillipps copy of Stow's Annals (see
The Academy, October 28, 1882, p. 314), who is not trustworthy, says that the Fortune was burned
down in 1618, and "built again with brick work on the outside," from which Mr. Wallace assumed
that he meant that the building was merely brick-veneered. If the writer meant this he was
in error. See the report of the commission appointed by Dulwich College to examine the building
(Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 95).]

[Footnote 461: Hazlitt's Dodsley, XV, 408.]

[Footnote 462: Stow, Annals, 1631.]

[Footnote 463: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 29. Half-shares were £41 13s. 4d., which Murray (English
Dramatic Companies) confuses with whole shares.]

[Footnote 464: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 95. This estimate was made after the interior of the
building had been "pulled down," and hence refers merely to the cost of erection.]

[Footnote 465: For an account of "a dangerous and great riot committed in Whitecross Street
at the Fortune Playhouse" in May, 1626, see Jeaffreson, Middlesex County Records, III, 161-63.]

On November 25, 1626, Edward Alleyn died, and the Fortune property came into the full possession
of Dulwich College. This, however, did not in any way affect the syndicate of the Fortune housekeepers,
who held from Alleyn a lease of the property until 1672. According to the terms of this lease
each of the twelve sharers had to pay a yearly rental of £10 13s. 10d.; this rental now merely
went to the College instead of to Alleyn.

In 1631 the Palsgrave's Men seem to have fallen on hard times; at any rate, they had to give
up the Fortune, and the playhouse was taken over, about December, by the King's Revels, who
had been playing at the small private playhouse of Salisbury Court.[466] The Palsgrave's Men
were reorganized, taken under the patronage of the infant Prince Charles, and placed in the
Salisbury Court Playhouse just vacated by the King's Revels.

[Footnote 466: For details of this move see the chapter on the Salisbury Court Playhouse.]

In 1635 there was a general shifting of houses on the part of the London companies. The King's
Revels left the Fortune and returned to their old quarters at Salisbury Court; the Prince Charles's
Men, who had been at Salisbury Court, moved to the Red Bull; and the Red Bull Company transferred
itself to the Fortune.

The stay of the Red Bull Company at the Fortune was not happy. Towards the end of 1635 the
plague was seriously interfering with their performance of plays;[467] and on May 10, 1636,
the Privy Council closed all theatres, and kept them closed, except for a few days, until October
2, 1637.[468] This long inhibition not only impoverished the actors and drove them into the
country, but came near ruining the lessees of the Fortune, who, having no revenue from the
playhouse, could not make their quarterly payments to the College. On September 4, 1637, the
Court of Assistants at Dulwich noted that the lessees were behind in their rent to the extent
of £132 12s. 11d.; "and," the court adds, "there will be a quarter's rent more at Michaelmas
next [i.e., in twenty-five days], which is doubted will be also unpaid, amounting to £33 1s.
4d."[469] The excuse of the lessees for their failure to pay was the "restraint from playing."[470]

[Footnote 467: Young, The History of Dulwich College, I, 114.]

[Footnote 468: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 391, 392; Malone, Variorum, III, 239.]

[Footnote 469: Young, The History of Dulwich College, I, 114.]

[Footnote 470: The College appealed to the Lord Keeper, who on January 26 ordered the payment
of the sum. But two years later, February, 1640, we find the College again petitioning the
Lord Keeper to order the lessees of the Fortune property to pay an arrearage of £104 14s. 5d.
See Collier, The Alleyn Papers, pp. 95-98.]

This "restraint" was removed on October 2, 1637, and the players resumed their performances
at the Fortune. But in the early summer of 1639 they fell victims to another bit of ill luck
even more serious than their long inhibition. In a letter of Edmond Rossingham, dated May 8,
1639, we read: "Thursday last the players of the Fortune were fined £1000 for setting up an
altar, a bason, and two candlesticks, and bowing down before it upon the stage; and although
they allege it was an old play revived, and an altar to the heathen gods, yet it was apparent
that this play was revived on purpose in contempt of the ceremonies of the Church."[471]

[Footnote 471: Printed in The Calendar of State Papers, Domestic, 1639, p. 140.]

During the Easter period, 1640, the players returned to their old quarters at the Red Bull.
After their unhappy experiences at the Fortune they were apparently glad to occupy again their
former home. The event is celebrated in a Prologue entitled Upon the Removing of the Late Fortune
Players to the Bull, written by John Tatham, and printed in Fancies Theatre (1640):[472]

     Here, gentlemen, our anchor's fixt; and we
     Disdaining Fortune's mutability,
     Expect your kind acceptance.

[Footnote 472: The Prologue is printed in full by Malone, Variorum, III, 79.]

The writer then hurls some uncomplimentary remarks at the Fortune, observing complacently:
"We have ne'er an actor here has mouth enough to tear language by the ears." It is true that
during these later years the Fortune had fallen into ill repute with persons of good taste.
But so had the Red Bull, and the actors there had no right to throw stones. Apparently the
large numbers that could be accommodated in the great public theatres, and the quality of the
audience attracted by the low price of admission, made noise and rant inevitable.[473] As chief
sinners in this respect the Fortune and the Red Bull are usually mentioned together.

[Footnote 473: Not even the Globe was entirely free from this; see the Prologue to The Doubtful
Heir.]

Upon the departure of the Red Bull Company, the Prince Charles's Men (originally the Admiral's,
and later the Palsgrave's Men), who had been occupying the Red Bull, came to the Fortune.[474]
Thus after an absence of nearly nine years, the old company (though sadly altered in personnel),
for which the Fortune had been built, returned to its home to remain there until the end.

[Footnote 474: Malone, Variorum, III, 79.]

On September 2, 1642, the Long Parliament passed an ordinance suppressing all stage-plays;
but for a time the actors at the Fortune seem to have continued their performances. In the
fifth number of The Weekly Account, September 27-October 4, 1643, we find among other entries:
"The players' misfortune at the Fortune in Golding Lane, their players' clothes being seized
upon in the time of a play by authority from the Parliament."[475] This, doubtless, led to
the closing of the playhouse.

[Footnote 475: The Calendar of State Papers, Domestic, 1643, p. 564.]

After the Fortune was thus closed, the lessees were in a predicament. By a specific clause
in their lease they were prevented from using the building for any purpose other than the acting
of stage-plays, and now Parliament by a specific ordinance had forbidden the acting of stage-plays.
Hence the lessees, some of whom were poor persons, being unable to make any profit from the
building, refused to pay any rent. The College entered suit against them, and exhausted all
legal means to make them pay, but without success.[476]

[Footnote 476: For an interesting comment on the situation, especially in the year 1649, see
Notes and Queries (series X), I, 85.]

When the ordinance prohibiting plays expired in January, 1648, the actors promptly reopened
the Fortune, and we learn from The Kingdom's Weekly Intelligencer that on January 27 no fewer
than one hundred and twenty coaches were crowded about the building. But on February 9 Parliament
passed a new and even more stringent ordinance against dramatic performances, placing penalties
not only upon the players, but also upon the spectators. This for ever put an end to acting
at the Fortune.

In 1649 the arrears of the lessees having reached the sum of £974 5s. 8d., the authorities
of the College took formal possession of the playhouse.

From certain manuscript notes[477] entered in the Phillipps copy of Stow's Annals (1631), we
learn that "a company of soldiers, set on by the sectaries of these sad times, on Saturday,
the 24 day of March, 1649," sacked the Salisbury Court Playhouse, the Phoenix, and the Fortune.
The note states that the Fortune was "pulled down on the inside by the soldiers"; that is,
the stage and the seats were dismantled[478] so as to render the building unusable for dramatic
purposes.

[Footnote 477: Printed in The Academy, October 28, 1882, p. 314.]

[Footnote 478: See The Journals of the House of Commons, July 26, 1648.]

In the following year, 1650, the inhabitants of the Parish of St. Giles "represent that they
are poor, and unable to build a place of worship for themselves, but think it would be convenient
if that large building commonly known by the name of the Fortune Playhouse might be allotted
and set apart for that purpose." The request was not granted.[479]

[Footnote 479: Warner, Catalogue, XXXI; Greg, Henslowe's Diary, II, 65.]

By July, 1656, the condition of the old playhouse was such that the Masters and Wardens of
the College appointed two experts to view the building and make recommendations. They reported
"that by reason the lead hath been taken from the said building, the tiling not secured, and
the foundation of the said playhouse not kept in good repair, great part of the said playhouse
is fallen to the ground, the timber thereof much decayed and rotten, and the brick walls so
rent and torn that the whole structure is in no condition capable of repair, but in great danger
of falling, to the hazard of passengers' lives"; and they add: "The charge for demolishing
the same will be chargeable and dangerous. Upon these considerations our opinion is that the
said materials may not be more worth than eighty pound."[480]

[Footnote 480: The entire report is printed in Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 95.]

The authorities of Dulwich took no action on this report. However, on March 5, 1660, they ordered
that the property be leased, making a casual reference to the playhouse as "at present so ruinous
that part thereof is already fallen down, and the rest will suddenly follow." Accordingly,
they inserted in the Mercurius Politicus of February 14-21, 1661, the following advertisement:
"The Fortune Playhouse, situate between Whitecross Street and Golding Lane, in the parish of
St. Giles, Cripplegate, with the ground thereto belonging, is to be let to be built upon."[481]

[Footnote 481: Discovered by Stevens, and printed in Malone, Variorum, III, 55, note 5. But
the same advertisement is reprinted by H.R. Plomer in Notes and Queries (series X), VI, 107,
from The Kingdom's Intelligencer of March 18, 1661.]

No one seems to have cared to lease the property; so on March 16, following, the materials
of the building were sold to one William Beaven for the sum of £75;[482] and in the records
of the College, March 4, 1662, we read that "the said playhouse ... is since totally demolished."[483]

[Footnote 482: Young, The History of Dulwich College, II, 265.]

[Footnote 483: Collier, The Alleyn Papers, p. 101. I am aware of the fact that there are references
to later incidents at the Fortune (for example, the statement that it was visited by officers
in November, 1682, in an attempt to suppress secret conventicles that had long been held there),
but in view of the unimpeachable documentary evidence cited above (in 1662 the College authorities
again refer to it as "the late ruinous and now demolished Fortune playhouse"), we must regard
these later references either as inaccurate, or as referring to another building later erected
in the same neighborhood. The so-called picture of the Fortune, printed in Wilkinson's Londina
Illustrata, and often reproduced by modern scholars, cannot possibly be that of the playhouse
erected by Alleyn. This plot of land, which contained one house, was situated "at the upper
end of St. John's Street" in the Parish of St. James, Clerkenwell, the exact location being
marked by "Red Bull Yard" in Ogilby and Morgan's Map of London, printed in 1677. The property
was not much more distant from the heart of the city than the Fortune property, and since it
could be easily reached through St. John's Gate, it was quite as well situated for dramatic
purposes as was the Fortune.

[Footnote 484: This playhouse is not to be confused with the famous Bull Tavern in Bishopsgate
Street, for many years used as a theatre.]

[Footnote 485: These statements are based upon the Woodford v. Holland documents, first discovered
by Collier, later by Greenstreet, and finally printed in full by Wallace, Three London Theatres.]

In or before 1605[486] Holland erected on this plot of ground "a playhouse for acting and setting
forth plays, comedies, and tragedies." We may suspect that he did this at the instigation of
the Earl of Worcester's Men, who had just been taken under the patronage of the Queen, and
had been selected by the Privy Council as one of three companies to be "allowed." In a draft
of a license to the Queen's Men, made late in 1603 or early in 1604, the fact is disclosed
that the actors, of whom Thomas Greene was the leader, were contemplating a new playhouse.
The company was licensed to use any "playhouse not used by others, by the said Thomas Greene
elected, or by him hereafter to be built."[489] Whether or no Greene and his fellows had some
understanding with Holland, we cannot say. But in 1605 we find Holland disposing of one share
in the new playhouse to Thomas Swynnerton, a member of Queen Anne's Troupe; and he may at the
same time have disposed of other shares to other members, for his transaction with Swynnerton
comes to our notice only through a subsequent lawsuit. The words used in the documents connected
with the suit clearly suggest that the playhouse was completed at the time of the purchase.
From the fact that Holland granted "a seventh part of the said playhouse and galleries, with
a gatherer's place thereto belonging or appertaining, unto the said Thomas Swynnerton for diverse
years,"[490] it appears that the ownership of the playhouse had been divided into seven shares,
some of which, according to custom, may have been subdivided into half-shares.

[Footnote 486: Sir Sidney Lee (A Life of William Shakespeare, p. 60) says that the Red Bull
was "built about 1600." He gives no evidence, and the statement seems to be merely a repetition
from earlier and unauthoritative writers.]

[Footnote 487: The original warrant is preserved at Dulwich, and printed by Greg, Henslowe
Papers, p. 61. Cf. also Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council, XXXII, 511.]

[Footnote 488: Raven's Almanack (1609); Dekker's Works (ed. Grosart), IV, 210.]

[Footnote 489: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 265.]

[Footnote 490: Wallace, Three London Theatres, p. 18.]

The name of the playhouse, as in the case of the Rose and the Curtain, was taken from the name
of the estate on which it was erected. Of the building we have no pictorial representation;
the picture in Kirkman's The Wits (1672), so often reproduced by scholars as "The Interior
of the Red Bull," has nothing whatever to do with that building. The Kirkman picture shows
a small enclosed room, with a narrow stage illuminated by chandeliers and footlights; the Red
Bull, on the contrary, was a large, open-air building, with its stage illuminated by the sun.
It is thus described in Wright's Historia Histrionica (1699): "The Globe, Fortune, and Bull
were large houses, and lay partly open to the weather."[491] Before its door was displayed
a sign on which was painted a red bull; hence the playhouse is sometimes referred to simply
as "at the sign of the Red Bull."

[Footnote 491: Hazlitt's Dodsley, XV, 408. If the Kirkham picture represents the interior of
any playhouse, it more likely represents the Cockpit, which was standing at the time of the
Restoration.]

The building, as I have indicated, seems to have been completed in or before 1605; but exactly
when the Queen's Men moved thither from the Curtain is not clear. Moreover, Heath, in his Epigrams,
printed in 1610 but probably written a year or two earlier, refers to the three important public
playhouses of the day as the Globe, the Fortune, and the Curtain. Yet, that the Queen's Men
were playing regularly at the Red Bull in 1609 is clear from Dekker's Raven's Almanack,[493]
and they may have been playing there at intervals after 1605.

[Footnote 492: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 270.]

[Footnote 493: Dekker's Works (ed. Grosart), IV, 210-11. I cannot understand why Murray (English
Dramatic Companies, I, 152-53) and others say that Dekker refers to the Fortune, the Globe,
and the Curtain. His puns are clear: "Fortune must favour some ... the whole world must stick
to others ... and a third faction must fight like Bulls."]

Dekker, in the pamphlet just mentioned, predicted "a deadly war" between the Globe, the Fortune,
and the Red Bull. And he had good reasons for believing that the Queen's Men could successfully
compete with the two other companies, for it numbered among its players some of the best actors
of the day. The leader of the troupe was Thomas Greene, now chiefly known for the amusing comedy
named, after him, Greene's Tu Quoque, but then known to all Londoners as the cleverest comedian
since Tarleton and Kempe:

     Scat. Yes, faith, brother, if it please you; let's go see
     a play at the Globe.

     But. I care not; any whither, so the clown have a part;
     for, i' faith, I am nobody without a fool.

     Gera. Why, then, we'll go to the Red Bull; they say
     Green's a good clown.[494]

[Footnote 494: Greene's Tu Quoque, Hazlitt's Dodsley, XI, 240. In May, 1610, there was "a notable
outrage at the Playhouse called the Red Bull"; see Middlesex County Records, II, 64-65.]

The chief playwright for the troupe was the learned and industrious Thomas Heywood, who, like
Shakespeare, was also an actor and full sharer in his company. Charles Lamb, who was an ardent
admirer of Heywood's plays, enthusiastically styled him "a prose Shakespeare"; and Wordsworth,
with hardly less enthusiasm, declared him to have been "a great man."

In 1612 Thomas Greene died, and the leadership of the troupe was taken over by Christopher
Beeston, a man well known in the theatrical life of the time. Late in February, 1617, Beeston
transferred the Queen's Men to his new playhouse in Drury Lane, the Cockpit; in little more
than a week the sacking of the Cockpit drove them back to their old quarters, where they remained
until the following June. But even after this they seem not to have abandoned the Red Bull
entirely.

Edward Alleyn, in his Account Book, writes: "Oct. 1, 1617, I came to London in the coach and
went to the Red Bull"; and again under the date of October 3: "I went to the Red Bull, and
received for The Younger Brother but £3 6s. 4d."[495] What these two passages mean it is hard
to say, for they constitute the only references to the Red Bull in all the Alleyn papers; but
they do not necessarily imply, as some have thought, that Alleyn was part owner of the playhouse;
possibly he was merely selling to the Red Bull Company the manuscript of an old play.[496]

[Footnote 495: Malone, Variorum, III, 223; Young, The History of Dulwich College, II, 51; Warner,
Catalogue, p. 165; Collier, Memoirs of Edward Alleyn, p. 107.]

[Footnote 496: The play is not otherwise known; a play with this title, however, was entered
on the Stationers' Register in 1653.]

At the death of Queen Anne, March 2, 1619, the company was deprived of its "service," and after
attending her funeral on May 13, was dissolved. Christopher Beeston joined Prince Charles's
Men, and established that troupe at the Cockpit;[497] the other leading members of Queen Anne's
Men seem to have continued at the Red Bull under the simple title "The Red Bull Company."

[Footnote 497: For details of this change, and of the quarrels that followed, see the chapter
on the Cockpit.]

In April, 1622, a feltmaker's apprentice named John Gill,[498] while seated on the Red Bull
stage, was accidentally injured by a sword in the hands of one of the actors, Richard Baxter.
A few days later Gill called upon his fellow-apprentices to help him secure damages. In the
forenoon he sent the following letter, now somewhat defaced by time, to Baxter:

     Mr. Blackster [sic]. So it is that upon Monday last it ...
     to be upon your stage, intending no hurt to any one, where I
     was grievously wounded in the head, as may appear; and in
     the surgeon's hands, who is to have xs. for the cure; and
     in the meantime my Master to give me maintenance ... [to my]
     great loss and hindrance; and therefore in kindness I desire
     you to give me satisfaction, seeing I was wounded by your
     own hand ... weapon. If you refuse, then look to yourself
     and avoid the danger which shall this day ensue upon your
     company and house. For ... as you can, for I am a
     feltmaker's prentice, and have made it known to at least one
     hundred and forty of our ... who are all here present, ready
     to take revenge upon you unless willingly you will give
     present satisfaction. Consider there ... think fitting. And
     as you have a care for your own safeties, so let me have
     answer forthwith.[499]

[Footnote 498: The name is also given, incorrectly, as Richard Gill.]

[Footnote 499: Jeaffreson, Middlesex County Records, II, 165-66; 175-76.]

Baxter turned the letter over to the authorities of Middlesex (hence its preservation), who
took steps to guard the playhouse and actors. The only result was that prentices "to the number
of one hundred persons on the said day riotously assembled at Clerkenwell, to the terror and
disquiet of persons dwelling there."

On July 8, 1622, the Red Bull Company secured a license "to bring up children in the quality
and exercise of playing comedies, histories, interludes, morals, pastorals, stage-plays and
such like ... to be called by the name of the Children of the Revels."[500] The Children of
the Revels occupied the Red Bull until the summer of the following year, 1623, when they were
dissolved. The last reference to them is in the Herbert Manuscript under the date of May 10,
1623.[501]

[Footnote 500: Malone, Variorum, III, 62; The Malone Society's Collections, I, 284.]

[Footnote 501: Chalmers, Supplemental Apology, p. 213.]

In August, 1623, we find the Red Bull occupied by Prince Charles's Men,[502] who, after the
dissolution of the Revels Company, had moved thither from the less desirable Curtain.

[Footnote 502: Ibid., pp. 213-14.]

Two years later, in 1625, Prince Charles became King, and took under his patronage his father's
troupe, the King's Men. Some of the members of the Prince Charles Troupe were transferred to
the King's Men, and the rest constituted a nucleus about which a new company was organized,
known simply as "The Red Bull Company."

About this time, it seems, the playhouse was rebuilt and enlarged. The Fortune had been destroyed
by fire in 1621, and had just been rebuilt in a larger and handsomer form. In 1625 one W.C.,
in London's Lamentation for her Sins, writes: "Yet even then, Oh Lord, were the theatres magnified
and enlarged."[503] This doubtless refers to the rebuilding of the Fortune and the Red Bull.
Prynne specifically states in his Histriomastix (1633) that the Fortune and Red Bull had been
"lately reedified [and] enlarged." But nothing further is known of the "re-edification and
enlargement" of the Red Bull. Carew, in 1630, speaks of it as a place where "noise prevails"
and a "drowth of wit," and yet as always crowded with people while the better playhouses stood
empty.

[Footnote 505: Randolph's Works (ed. Hazlitt), p. 504.]

[Footnote 506: Hazlitt's Dodsley, XV, 407.]

[Footnote 507: Pleasant Notes on Don Quixote, p. 24.]

In 1635 the Red Bull Company moved to the Fortune, and Prince Charles's Men occupied the Red Bull.

Five years later, at Easter, 1640, Prince Charles's Men moved back to the Fortune, and the
Red Bull Company returned to its old home. In a prologue written to celebrate the event,[508]
the members of the company declared:

     Here, gentlemen, our anchor's fix't.

[Footnote 508: J. Tatham, Fancies Theatre. For a fuller discussion of the shifting of companies
in 1635 and 1640 see the chapter on "The Fortune."]

This proved true, for the company remained at the Red Bull until Parliament passed the ordinance
of 1642 closing the playhouses and forbidding all dramatic performances. The ordinance, which
was to hold good during the continuance of the civil war, was renewed in 1647, with January
1, 1648, set as the date of its expiration. Through some oversight a new ordinance was not
immediately passed, and the actors were prompt to take advantage of the fact. They threw open
the playhouses, and the Londoners flocked in great crowds to hear plays again. At the Red Bull,
so we learn from the newspaper called Perfect Occurrences, was given a performance of Beaumont
and Fletcher's Wit Without Money.

But on February 9, 1648, Parliament made up for its oversight by passing an exceptionally severe
ordinance against dramatic exhibitions, directing that actors be publicly flogged, and that
each spectator be fined the sum of five shillings.

During the dark years that followed, the Red Bull, in spite of this ordinance, was occasionally
used by venturous actors. James Wright, in his Historia Histrionica, tells us that upon the
outbreak of the war the various London actors had gone "into the King's army, and, like good
men and true, served their old master, though in a different, yet more honourable capacity.
Robinson was killed at the taking of a place (I think Basing House) by Harrison.... Mohun was
a captain.... Hart was cornet of the same troop, and Shatterel quartermaster. Allen, of the
Cockpit, was a major.... The rest either lost or exposed their lives for their king."[509]
He concludes the narrative by saying that when the wars were over, those actors who were left
alive gathered to London, "and for a subsistence endeavoured to revive their old trade privately."
They organized themselves into a company in 1648 and attempted "to act some plays with as much
caution and privacy as could be at the Cockpit"; but after three or four days they were stopped
by soldiers. Thereafter, on special occasions "they used to bribe the officer who commanded
the guard at Whitehall, and were thereupon connived at to act for a few days at the Red Bull,
but were sometimes, notwithstanding, disturbed by soldiers."[510] To such clandestine performances
Kirkman refers in his Preface to The Wits, or Sport upon Sport (1672): "I have seen the Red
Bull Playhouse, which was a large one, so full that as many went back for want of room as had
entered; and as meanly as you may now think of these drolls, they were then acted by the best
comedians then and now in being." Not, however, without occasional trouble. In Whitelocke's
Memorials, p. 435, we read: "20 Dec., 1649. Some stage-players in St. John's Street were apprehended
by troopers, their clothes taken away, and themselves carried to prison"; again, in The Perfect
Account, December 27-January 3, 1654-1655: "Dec. 30, 1654.--This day the players at the Red
Bull, being gotten into all their borrowed gallantry and ready to act, were by some of the
soldiery despoiled of all their bravery; but the soldiery carried themselves very civilly towards
the audience."[511] In the Weekly Intelligencer, September 11-18, 1655, we find recorded still
another sad experience for the actors: "Friday, September 11, 1655.--This day proved tragicall
to the players at the Red Bull; their acting being against the Act of Parliament, the soldiers
secured the persons of some of them who were upon the stage, and in the tiring-house they seized
also upon their clothes in which they acted, a great part whereof was very rich."[512]

[Footnote 509: Hazlitt's Dodsley, XV, 409.]

[Footnote 510: Ibid., 409-10.]

[Footnote 511: Cited by C.H. Firth, in Notes and Queries, August 18, 1888, series VII, vol.
VI, p. 122.]

[Footnote 512: Ibid.]

On this occasion, however, the soldiers, instead of carrying themselves "very civilly" towards
the audience, undertook to exact from each of the spectators the fine of five shillings. The
ordinance of Parliament, passed February 9, 1648, read: "And it is hereby further ordered and
ordained, that every person or persons which shall be present and a spectator at such stage-play
or interlude, hereby prohibited, shall for every time he shall be present, forfeit and pay
the sum of five shillings to the use of the poor of the parish."[513] But the spectators did
not submit to this fine without a struggle. Jeremiah Banks wrote to Williamson on September
16, 1655: "At the playhouse this week many were put to rout by the soldiers and had broken
crowns; the corporal would have been entrapped had he not been vigilant."[514] And in the Weekly
Intelligencer, September 11-18, we read: "It never fared worse with the spectators than at
this present, for those who had monies paid their five shillings apiece; those who had none,
to satisfy their forfeits, did leave their cloaks behind them. The Tragedy of the spectators
was the Comedy of the soldiers. There was abundance of the female sex, who, not able to pay
five shillings, did leave some gage or other behind them, insomuch that although the next day
after the Fair was expected to be a new fair of hoods, of aprons, and of scarfs; all which,
their poverty being made known, and after some check for their trespass, were civilly again
restored to the owners."[515]

[Footnote 513: Hazlitt, The English Drama and Stage, p. 69.]

[Footnote 514: The Calendar of State Papers, Domestic, 1655, p. 336.]

[Footnote 515: For a further account of this episode see Mercurius Fumigosus, No. 69.]

At the period of the Restoration the Red Bull was among the first playhouses to reopen. John
Downes, in his Roscius Anglicanus, writes: "The scattered remnant of several of these houses,
upon King Charles' Restoration, framed a company, who acted again at the Bull."[516] Apparently
the company was brought together by the famous old Elizabethan actor, Anthony Turner. From
the Middlesex County Records (III, 279) we learn that at first the players were interrupted
by the authorities:

     12 May, 1659.--Recognizances, taken before Ra: Hall, esq.
     J.P., of William Wintershall and Henry Eaton, both of
     Clerkenwell, gentlemen, in the sum of fifty pounds each;
     "Upon condition that Antony Turner shall personally appear
     at the next Quarter Sessions of the Peace to be holden at
     Hicks Hall for the said County of Middlesex; for the
     unlawful maintaining of stage-plays and interludes at the
     Red Bull in St. John's Street, which house he affirms that
     they hire of the parishioners of Clerkenwell at the rate of
     twenty shillings a day over and above what they have agreed
     to pay towards the relief of their poor and repairing their
     highways, and in the meantime to be of good behaviour and
     not to depart the Court without license.--Ra: Hall." Also
     similar Recognizances, taken on the same day, before the
     same J.P., of the same William Wintershall and Henry Eaton,
     gentlemen, in the same sum of fifty pounds each; for the
     appearance of Edward Shatterall at the next. S.P.R., 17, May, 1659.

[Footnote 516: Cf. Wright, Historia Histrionica, p. 412; and for the general history of the
actors at the Red Bull during this period see the Herbert records in Halliwell-Phillipps, A
Collection of Ancient Documents.]

Later, it seems, they secured a license from the authorities, and thenceforth acted without
interruption. Samuel Pepys made plans "to go to the Red Bull Playhouse" with Mrs. Pierce and
her husband on August 3, 1660, but was prevented by business.

The actors, however, did not remain long at the Red Bull. They built for themselves a new theatre
in Drury Lane, whither they moved on April 8, 1663;[517] and after this the old playhouse was
deserted. In Davenant's The Play-House to Be Let (1663), I, i, we read:

     Tell 'em the Red Bull stands empty for fencers:[518]
     There are no tenants in it but old spiders.

[Footnote 517: After November 8, 1660, they acted also in Gibbon's Tennis Court in Clare Market,
which they had fitted up as a theatre; see Halliwell-Phillipps, A Collection of Ancient Documents,
p. 34.]

[Footnote 518: See Pepys' Diary, April 25, 1664.]

CHAPTER XV

WHITEFRIARS

The district of Whitefriars, lying just outside the city wall to the west, and extending from
Fleet Street to the Thames, was once in the possession of the order of White Friars, and the
site of an important monastery; but in Elizabeth's time the church had disappeared, most of
the ancient buildings had been dismantled, and in their place, as Stow tells us, were "many
fair houses builded, lodgings for noblemen and others." Since at the dissolution of the monasteries
the property had come into the possession of the Crown, it was not under the jurisdiction of
the London Common Council--a fact which made Whitefriars, like Blackfriars, a desirable refuge
for players seeking to escape the hostility of the city authorities.[519] One might naturally
expect the appearance of playing here at an early date, but the evidence is slight.[520]

[Footnote 519: Whitefriars passed under city control in 1608 by grant of King James I, but
certain rights remained, notably that of sanctuary. This has been celebrated in Shadwell's
play, The Squire of Alsatia, and in Scott's romance, The Fortunes of Nigel.]

[Footnote 520: Prynne, in Histriomastix (1633), p. 491, quotes a passage from Richard Reulidge's
Monster Lately Found Out and Discovered (1628), in which there is a reference to a playhouse
as existing in Whitefriars "not long after" 1580. By "playhouse" Reulidge possibly meant an
inn used for acting; but the whole passage, written by a Puritan after the lapse of nearly
half a century, is open to grave suspicion, especially in its details. Again Richard Flecknoe,
in A Short Discourse of the English Stage (1664), states that the Children of the Chapel Royal
acted in Whitefriars. But that he confused the word "Whitefriars" with "Blackfriars" is shown
by the rest of his statement.]

The first appearance of a regular playhouse in Whitefriars dates from the early years of King
James's reign. With our present knowledge we cannot fix the date exactly, yet we can feel reasonably
certain that it was not long before 1607--probably about 1605.

The chief spirit in the organization of the new playhouse seems to have been the poet Michael
Drayton, who had secured a patent from King James to "erect" a company of child actors, to
be known as "The Children of His Majesty's Revels."[521] Obviously his hope was to make the
Children of His Majesty's Revels at Whitefriars rival the successful Children of Her Majesty's
Revels at Blackfriars. In this ambitious enterprise he associated with himself a wealthy London
merchant, Thomas Woodford, whom we know as having been interested in various theatrical investments.[522]
These two men leased from Lord Buckhurst for a short period of time a building described as
a "mansion house" formerly a part of the Whitefriars monastery: "the rooms of which are thirteen
in number, three below, and ten above; that is to say, the great hall, the kitchen by the yard,
and a cellar, with all the rooms from the Master of the Revells' office as the same are now
severed and divided."[523] The "great hall" here mentioned, once the refectory of the monks,
was made into the playhouse. Its "great" size may be inferred from the fact that there were
ten rooms "above"; and its general excellence may be inferred from the fact that it was leased
at £50 per annum, whereas Blackfriars, in a more desirable location and fully equipped as a
theatre, was rented for only £40.

[Footnote 521: Fleay, Murray, and others are wrong in assuming that this troupe was merely
a continuation of the Paul's Boys. So far as I can discover, there is no official record of
the patent issued to Drayton; but that such a patent was issued is clear from the lawsuits
of 1609, printed by Greenstreet in The New Shakspere Society's Transactions (1887-90), p. 269.]

[Footnote 522: He was part proprietor of the Red Bull. In the case of Witter v. Heminges and
Condell he was examined as a witness (see Wallace, Shakespeare and his London Associates, p.
74), but what connection, if any, he had with the Globe does not appear.]

[Footnote 523: Greenstreet, The New Shakspere Society's Transactions (1887-90), p. 275.]

From an early seventeenth-century survey of the Whitefriars property (see the opposite page),
we are able to place the building very exactly. The part of the monastery used as a playhouse--the
Frater--was the southern cloister, marked in the plan, "My Lords Cloyster." The "kitchen by
the yard" mentioned in the document just quoted is clearly represented in the survey by the
"Scullere." The size of the playhouse is hard to ascertain, but it was approximately thirty-five
feet in width and eighty-five feet in length.[524] In the London of to-day it extended roughly
from Bouverie Street to Ashen-tree Court, and lay just north of George Yard.

[Footnote 524: The stipple walls, in the original survey colored gray, were of stone; the thinner
walls of the adjoining "tenements," in the original colored red, were of brick.]

Of the career of the Children under the joint management of Drayton and Woodford we know almost
nothing. But in March, 1608, a new management assumed charge of the troupe, and from this point
on the history of the playhouse is reasonably clear.

The original lease of the building, it seems, expired on March 5, 1608. But before the expiration--in
the latter part of 1607 or in the early part of 1608--Drayton and Woodford secured a new lease
on the property for six years, eight months, and twenty days, or until December 25 (one of
the four regular feasts of the year), 1614. In February, 1608, after having secured this renewal
of the lease, Thomas Woodford suddenly determined to retire from the enterprise; and he sold
his moiety to one David Lording Barry,[525] author of the play Ram Alley. Barry and Drayton
at once made plans to divide the property into six shares, so as to distribute the expenses
and the risks as well as the hoped-for profits. Barry induced his friend, George Androwes,
to purchase one share, and hence the lawsuit from which we derive most of our knowledge of
the playhouse. From this suit I quote below the more significant part relating to the new organization:

     Humbly complaining, sheweth unto your honorable lordship,
     your daily orator, George Androwes, of London, silkweaver,
     that whereas one Lordinge Barry, about February which was in
     the year of our Lord 1607 [i.e., 1608], pretending himself
     to be lawfully possessed of one moiety of a messuage or
     mansion house, parcel of the late dissolved monastery called
     the Whitefriars, in Fleet Street, in the suburbs of London,
     by and under a lease made thereof, about March then next
     following, from the right honorable Robert, Lord Buckhurst,
     unto one Michael Drayton and Thomas Woodford, for the term
     of six years, eight months, and twenty days then following,
     for and under the yearly rent of fifty pounds reserved
     thereupon; the moiety of which said lease and premisses, by
     mean assignment from the said Thomas Woodford, was lawfully
     settled in the said Lordinge Barry, as he did pretend,
     together with the moiety of diverse play-books, apparel, and
     other furnitures and necessaries used and employed in and
     about the said messuage and the Children of the Revels,[526]
     there being, in making and setting forth plays, shows, and
     interludes, and such like. And the said Lordinge Barry ...
     being desirous to join others with him in the interest of
     the same, who might be contributory to such future charges
     as should arise in setting forth of plays and shows there,
     did thereupon ... solicit and persuade your orator to
     take from the said Barry an assignment of a sixth part of
     the messuage, premisses, and profits aforesaid.

[Footnote 525: By a stupid error often called Lodowick Barry. For an explanation of the error
see an article by the present writer in Modern Philology, April, 1912, IX, 567. Mr. W.J. Lawrence
has recently shown (Studies in Philology, University of North Carolina, April, 1917) that David
Barry was the eldest son of the ninth Viscount Buttevant, and was called "Lording" by courtesy.
At the time he became interested in the Whitefriars Playhouse he was twenty-two years old.
He died in 1610.]

[Footnote 526: At this time the Children of Blackfriars had lost their patent, so that the
Children at Whitefriars were the only Revels troupe.]

This passage gives us an interesting glimpse of Drayton and Barry in their efforts to organize
a syndicate for exploiting the Children of His Majesty's Revels. They induced several other
persons to buy half-shares; and then they engaged, as manager of the Children, Martin Slaiter,[527]
a well-known and thoroughly experienced actor. For his services as manager, Slaiter was to
receive one whole share in the organization, and lodgings for himself and his family of ten
in the building. The syndicate thus formed was made up of four whole-sharers, Michael Drayton,
Lordinge Barry, George Androwes, and Martin Slaiter, and four half-sharers, William Trevell,
William Cooke, Edward Sibthorpe, and John Mason.[528]

[Footnote 527: Also spelled Slater, Slaughter, Slather, Slawghter. Henslowe often refers to
him as "Martin."]

[Footnote 528: Mr. Wallace (The Century Magazine, 1910, LXXX, 511) incorrectly says that Whitefriars
was held by "six equal sharers."]

The "great hall" had, of course, already been fitted up for the acting of plays, and the new
lessees did not at first contemplate any expenditure on the building. Later, however,--if we
can believe Androwes,--they spent a not inconsiderable sum for improvements. The Children already
had certain plays, and to these were added some new ones. Among the plays in their repertoire
were Day's Humour Out of Breath, Middleton's Family of Love, Armin's The Two Maids of Moreclacke,
Sharpham's Cupid's Whirligig, Markham and Machin's The Dumb Knight, Barry's Ram Alley, and
Mason's The Turk. The last two writers were sharers, and it seems likely that Drayton, also
a sharer and experienced as a dramatist, contributed some plays towards the stock of the company.

The new organization, with bright prospects for success, was launched in March, 1608. Almost
at once, however, it began to suffer from ill luck. In April the Children at Blackfriars, by
their performance of Byron, caused King James to close all playhouses in London. How long he
kept them closed we do not know, but we find the lessees of Whitefriars joining with the three
other London companies in seeking to have the inhibition raised. As the French Ambassador informed
his Government: "Pour lever cette défense, quatres autres compagnies, qui y sont encore, offrent
déjà cent mille francs, lesquels pourront bien leur en ordonner la permission."[529]

[Footnote 529: Letter of M. De La Boderie, the French Ambassador to England; quoted by E.K.
Chambers, Modern Language Review, IV, 159.]

Even if this inhibition was shortly raised, the Whitefriars organization was not much better
off, for in July the plague set in with unusual violence, and acting was seriously if not wholly
interrupted for the next twelve months and more. As a result, the profits from the theatre
did not come up to the "fair and false flattering speeches" which at the outset Barry had made
to prospective investors, and this led to bad feeling among the sharers.

The company at Blackfriars, of course, was suffering in a similar way. On August 8, 1608, their
playhouse was surrendered to the owner, Richard Burbage, and the Children being thus left without
a home were dispersed. Early in 1609, probably in February, Robert Keysar (the manager of the
Blackfriars troupe), Philip Rosseter, and others secured the lease of the Whitefriars Playhouse
from Drayton and the rest of the discontented sharers, and reassembled there the Children of
Blackfriars. What became of the Whitefriars troupe we do not know; but it is highly likely
that the new organization took over the better actors from Drayton's company. At any rate,
we do not hear again of the Children of His Majesty's Revels.

When Keysar and this new troupe of child-actors moved into Whitefriars, Slaiter and his family
of ten were expelled from the building. This led to a lawsuit, and explains much in the legal
documents printed by Greenstreet. Slaiter complained with no little feeling that he had been
"riotously, willfully, violently, and unlawfully, contrary to the said articles and pretended
agreement [by which he had been not only engaged as a manager, but also guaranteed a home for
the period of "all the term of years in the lease"], put and kept out of his said rooms of
habitation for him, this defendant, and his family, and all other his means of livelihood,
thereby leaving this defendant and his whole family, being ten in number, to the world to seek
for bread and other means to live by."[530]

[Footnote 530: Greenstreet, The New Shakspere Society's Transactions (1887-90), p. 283.]

The new Whitefriars troupe acted five plays at Court during the winter of 1609-10. Payments
therefor were made to Robert Keysar, and the company was referred to merely as "The Children
of the Whitefriars." But on January 4, 1610, the company secured a royal patent authorizing
the use of the title "The Children of the Queen's Revels."[531] The patent was granted to Robert
Daborne, Philip Rosseter, John Tarbock, Richard Jones, and Robert Browne; but Keysar, though
not named in the grant, was still one of the important sharers.[532]

[Footnote 531: Printed in The Malone Society's Collections, I, 271.]

[Footnote 532: See Keysar v. Burbage et al., printed by Mr. Wallace, in his Shakespeare and
his London Associates, pp. 80 ff.]

The troupe well deserved the patronage of the Queen. Keysar described the Blackfriars Children
whom he had reorganized as "a company of the most expert and skillful actors within the realm
of England, to the number of eighteen or twenty persons, all or most of them, trained up in
that service in the reign of the late Queen Elizabeth for ten years together."[533] And to
these, as I have pointed out, it seems likely that the best members of the bankrupt Children
of His Majesty's Revels had been added. The chief actor of the new organization was Nathaniel
Field, whose histrionic ability placed him beside Edward Alleyn and Richard Burbage. One of
the first plays he was called upon to act in his new theatre was Jonson's brilliant comedy,
Epicoene, in which he took the leading rôle.

[Footnote 533: Ibid., p. 90.]

The idea then occurred to Rosseter to secure a monopoly on child-acting and on private playhouses.
The Children of His Majesty's Revels had ceased to exist. The Blackfriars Playhouse had been
closed by royal command, and its lease had been surrendered to its owner, Richard Burbage.
The only rival to the Children at Whitefriars was the troupe of Paul's Boys acting in their
singing-school behind the Cathedral. How Rosseter attempted to buy them off is thus recorded
by Richard Burbage and John Heminges:

     There being, as these defendants verily think, but only
     three private playhouses in the city of London, the one of
     which being in the Blackfriars and in the hands of these
     defendants or of their assigns, one other being in the
     Whitefriars in the hands or occupation of the said
     complainant himself [Keysar], his partners [Rosseter, et
     al.], or assigns, and the third near St. Paul's Church,
     then being in the hands of one Mr. Pierce, but then unused
     for a playhouse.
But, although he secured a monopoly on child-acting, he failed to
secure a monopoly on private playhouses, for shortly after he had
sealed this bargain with Pierce, the powerful King's Men opened up at
Blackfriars. Rosseter promptly requested them to pay half the "dead
rent" to Pierce, which they good-naturedly agreed to do.

In 1613 Whitefriars was rented by certain London apprentices for the performance "at night"
of Robert Taylor's The Hog Hath Lost His Pearl. The episode is narrated by Sir Henry Wotton
in a letter to Sir Edmund Bacon:

     On Sunday last, at night, and no longer, some sixteen
     apprentices (of what sort you shall guess by the rest of the
     story) having secretly learnt a new play without book,[535]
     entitled The Hog Hath Lost His Pearl, took up the
     Whitefriars for their theatre, and having invited thither
     (as it should seem) rather their mistresses than their
     masters, who were all to enter per buletini for a note of
     distinction from ordinary comedians. Towards the end of the
     play the sheriffs (who by chance had heard of it) came in
     (as they say) and carried some six or seven of them to
     perform the last act at Bridewell. The rest are fled. Now it
     is strange to hear how sharp-witted the city is, for they
     will needs have Sir John Swinerton, the Lord Mayor, be meant
     by the Hog, and the late Lord Treasurer by the Pearl.[536]

[Footnote 535: Miss Gildersleeve, in her valuable Government Regulation of the Elizabethan
Drama, p. 112, says: "Just what is the meaning of 'a new Play without Book' no one seems to
have conjectured." And she develops the theory that "it refers to the absence of a licensed
play-book," etc. The phrase "to learn without book" meant simply "to memorize."]

[Footnote 536: Reliquiæ Wottonianæ (ed. 1672), p. 402. The letter is dated merely 1612-13.
In connection with the play one should study The Hector of Germany, 1615.]

Apparently the Children of the Queen's Revels continued successfully at Whitefriars until March,
1613. On that date Rosseter agreed with Henslowe to join the Revels with the Lady Elizabeth's
Men then acting at the Swan. The new organization, following the example of the King's Men,
used Whitefriars as a winter, and the Swan as a summer, house. Thus for a time at least Whitefriars
came under the management of Henslowe.

Rosseter's lease of the building was to expire in the following year. He seems to have made
plans--possibly with the assistance of Henslowe--to erect in Whitefriars a more suitable playhouse
for the newly organized company; at least that is a plausible interpretation of the following
curious entry in Sir George Buc's Office Book: "July 13, 1613, for a license to erect a new
playhouse in Whitefriars, &c. £20."[537] But the new playhouse thus projected never was built,
doubtless because of strong local opposition. Instead, Henslowe erected for the company a public
playhouse on the Bankside, known as "The Hope."

[Footnote 537: Malone, Variorum, III, 52.]

In March, 1614, at the expiration of one year, Rosseter withdrew from his partnership with
Henslowe. On December 25, 1614, his lease of the Whitefriars expired, and he was apparently
unable to renew it. Thereupon he attempted to fit up a private playhouse in the district of
Blackfriars, and on June 3, 1615, he actually secured a royal license to do so. But in this
effort, too, he was foiled.[538]

[Footnote 538: See the chapter on "Rosseter's Blackfriars." The documents concerned in this
venture are printed in The Malone Society's Collections, I, 277.]

After this we hear little or nothing of the Whitefriars Playhouse. Yet the building may occasionally
have been used for dramatic purposes. Cunningham says: "The case of Trevill v. Woodford, in
the Court of Requests, informs us that plays were performed at the Whitefriars Theatre as late
as 1621; Sir Anthony Ashley, the then landlord of the house, entering the theatre in that year,
and turning the players out of doors, on pretense that half a year's rent was yet unpaid to
him."[539] I have not been able to examine this document. Neither Fleay nor Murray has found
any trace of a company at Whitefriars after Rosseter's departure; hence for all practical purposes
we may regard the Whitefriars Playhouse as having come to the end of its career in 1614.

[Footnote 539: The Shakespeare Society's Papers, IV, 90. The document printed by Collier in
New Facts Regarding the Life of Shakespeare (1835), p. 44, as from a manuscript in his possession,
is, I think, an obvious forgery.]

CHAPTER XVI

THE HOPE

On August 29, 1611, Henslowe became manager of the Lady Elizabeth's Men. Having agreed among
other things to furnish them with a playhouse,[540] and no longer being in possession of the
Rose, he rented the old Swan and maintained them there throughout the year 1612.

[Footnote 540: The agreement has been lost, but for a probably similar agreement, made with
the actor Nathaniel Field, see Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 23.]

In March of the following year, 1613, he entered into a partnership with Philip Rosseter (the
manager of the private playhouse of Whitefriars), and "joined" the Lady Elizabeth's Men with
Rosseter's excellent troupe of the Queen's Revels. Apparently the intention of Henslowe and
Rosseter was to form a company strong enough to compete on equal terms with the King's Men.
In imitation of the King's Men, who used the Globe as a summer and the Blackfriars as a winter
home, the newly amalgamated company was to use the Swan and the Whitefriars.[541] And the chief
actor of the troupe, corresponding to Richard Burbage of the King's Men, was to be Nathaniel
Field, then at the height of his powers:

     Cokes. Which is your Burbage now?

     Leatherhead. What mean you by that, sir?

     Cokes. Your best actor, your Field.

     Littlewit. Good, i' faith! you are even with me, sir.[542]

[Footnote 541: Daborne writes to Henslowe on June 5, 1613: "The company told me you were expected
there yesterday to conclude about their coming over ... my own play which shall be ready before
they come over." This, I suspect, refers to the moving of the company to the Swan for the summer.
(See Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 72.) That Henslowe was manager of a "private" house in 1613
is revealed by another letter from Daborne, dated December 9, 1613. (See Greg, ibid., p. 79.)]

[Footnote 542: Bartholomew Fair, V, iii. The part of Littlewit was presumably taken by Field
himself.]

Among their playwrights were Ben Jonson, Philip Massinger, John Fletcher, and Robert Daborne,
not to mention Field, who in addition to acting wrote excellent plays.

If it was the purpose of Henslowe and Rosseter to compete with the Globe Company in a winter
as well as in a summer house, that purpose was endangered by the fact that Rosseter's lease
of his private theatre expired within a year and a half, and could not be renewed.

[Footnote 543: Malone, Variorum, III, 52.]

Shortly after this, Henslowe made plans to provide the company with a new and better public
playhouse on the Bankside, more conveniently situated than the Swan. The old Bear Garden was
beginning to show signs of decay, and, doubtless, would soon have to be rebuilt. This suggested
to Henslowe the idea of tearing down that ancient structure and erecting in its place a larger
and handsomer building to serve both for the performance of plays and for the baiting of animals.
To this plan Jacob Meade, Henslowe's partner in the ownership of the Bear Garden, agreed.

Accordingly, on August 29, 1613, Henslowe and Meade signed a contract with a carpenter named
Katherens to pull down the Bear Garden and erect in its place a new structure. The original
contract, preserved among the Henslowe Papers, is one of the most valuable documents we have
relating to the early theatres. It is too long and verbose for insertion here, but I give below
a summary of its contents.[544] Katherens agreed:

     1. To "pull down" the Bear Garden and "the stable wherein
     the bulls and horses" had been kept; and "near or upon the
     said place where the said game-place did heretofore stand,"
     to "newly erect, build, and set up" a "playhouse, fit and
     convenient in all things both for players to play in, and
     for the game of bears and bulls to be baited in."

     2. "To build the same of such large compass, form, wideness,
     and height as the playhouse called the Swan."

     3. To provide for the building "a good sure, and sufficient
     foundation of bricks ... thirteen inches at the least above
     the ground."

     4. To make three galleries: "the inner principal posts of
     the first story to be twelve feet in height, and ten inches
     square; in the middle story ... eight inches square; in the
     upper story ... seven inches square."[545]

     5. To "make two boxes in the lowermost story, fit and decent
     for gentlemen to sit in," and in the rest of the galleries
     "partitions between the rooms as they are in the said
     playhouse called the Swan."

     6. To construct "a stage, to be carried and taken away, and
     to stand upon tressels, good, substantial, and sufficient
     for the carrying and bearing of such a stage."

     7. To "build the heavens all over the said stage, to be
     borne or carried without any posts or supporters to be fixed
     or set upon the said stage."

     8. To equip the stage with "a fit and convenient
     tyre-house."

     9. To "build two staircases without and adjoining to the
     said playhouse ... of such largeness and height as the
     staircases of the said playhouse called the Swan."

     10. "To new build, erect, and set up the said bull-house and
     stable ... of that largeness and fitness as shall be
     sufficient to keep and hold six bulls and three horses."

     11. "To new tyle with English tyles all the upper roof of
     the said playhouse ... and stable."

     12. To have the playhouse finished "upon or before the last
     day of November," 1613.

[Footnote 544: The contract is printed in full in Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 19.]

[Footnote 545: The height is given for the first story only. We may assume that the middle
and uppermost stories were of diminishing heights, as in the case of the Fortune Playhouse,
in which the galleries were respectively twelve, eleven, and nine feet in height.]

For all this Katherens was to receive the sum of £360; but since Henslowe and Meade supplied
a large share of the lumber and other materials, the total cost of the building may be estimated
as not less than £600.

When completed, the new playhouse was appropriately christened "The Hope."

It has been generally assumed that a picture of the Hope is given in Visscher's View of London,
published in 1616; but this, I think, is exceedingly doubtful. In drawing the Bankside, Visscher
rather slavishly copied the Agas map of 1560, inserting a few new buildings,--notably the playhouses,--and
it is virtually certain that he represented the "Bear Garden" (so he distinctly calls it) and
the Globe as they were before their reconstruction.[546] The first representation of the Hope
is to be found in Hollar's splendid View of London published in 1647 (see page 326). At this
time the building, which had for many years been devoted wholly to the royal sports of bull-
and bear-baiting, was still standing. It is hard to believe that an artist who so carefully
represented the famous edifices of the city should have greatly erred in drawing the "Bear
Baiting House,"--a structure more curious than they, and quite as famous.

[Footnote 546: The Merian View of London, published in 1638 at Frankfort-am-Main, is merely
a copy of the Visscher view with the addition of certain details from another and earlier view
not yet identified. It has no independent value. The View of London printed in Howell's Londinopolis
(1657), is merely a slavish copy of the Merian view. Visscher's representation of the Bear
Garden does not differ in any essential way from the representation in Hondius's View of 1610.
For a fuller discussion see pages 126, 146, 248.]

Hollar represents the Hope as circular. Whether the word "form" was intended to apply to the
exterior of the building we do not know. The Swan was decahedral; Visscher represents the "Bear
Garden" as octagonal (which is correct for the Bear Garden that preceded the Hope). But since
the exterior was of lime and plaster, and a decahedral form had no advantage, Katherens may
well have constructed a circular building as Hollar indicates. Perhaps it is significant in
this connection that John Taylor, the Water-Poet, in his Bull, Bear, and Horse, refers to the
Hope as a "sweet, rotuntious college." Significant also, perhaps, is the clause in the contract
by which Katherens was required to "build the heavens all over the stage," for this exactly
describes the heavens as drawn by Hollar. I see no reason to doubt that in the View of 1647
we have a reasonably faithful representation of the Hope.

The Hope was probably opened shortly after November 30, 1613, the date at which Katherens had
bound himself to have the building "fully finished," and it was occupied, of course, by the
Henslowe and Rosseter troupe of actors. The arrangement of the movable stage enabled Henslowe
and Meade to use the building also for animal-baiting. According to the contract with the actors,
the latter were to "lie still one day in fourteen" for the baiting.[547] This may not have
been a serious interruption for the players; but the presence of the stable, the bear dens,
and the kennels for the dogs must have rendered the playhouse far from pleasant to the audiences.
Ben Jonson, in the Induction to his Bartholomew Fair, acted at the Hope in October, 1614, remarks:
"And though the Fair be not kept in the same region that some here perhaps would have it, yet
think that therein the author hath observed a special decorum, the place being as dirty as
Smithfield, and as stinking every whit."[548]

[Footnote 547: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 88; cf. p. 125, where animal-baiting is said to be
used "one day of every four days"--a possible error for "fourteen days." In the manuscript
notes to the Phillipps copy of Stow's Survey (1631), we are told that baiting was used at the
Hope on Tuesdays and Thursdays; but the anonymous commentator is very inaccurate.]

[Footnote 548: The Rose Playhouse was likewise affected. Dekker, in Satiromastix, III, iv,
says: "Th'ast a breath as sweet as the Rose that grows by the Bear Garden."]

In March, 1614,--that is, at the completion of one full year under the joint management of
Henslowe and Rosseter,--the amalgamated company was "broken," and Rosseter withdrew, selling
his interest in the company's apparel to Henslowe and Meade for £63. The latter at once reorganized
the actors under the patent of the Lady Elizabeth's Men, and continued them at the Hope.[549]
The general excellence of the troupe thus formed is referred to by John Taylor, the Water-Poet,
in the lines:

     And such a company (I'll boldly say)
     That better (nor the like) e'er play'd a play.[550]

[Footnote 549: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 87. The articles of agreement between Henslowe and
Meade and the company, are printed by Greg on page 23.]

[Footnote 550: Works, Folio of 1630; The Spenser Society's reprint, p. 307.]

But this encomium may have been in large measure due to gratitude, for the company had just
saved the Water-Poet from a very embarrassing situation. The amusing episode which gave occasion
to this deserves to be chronicled in some detail.

With "a thousand bills posted over the city" Taylor had advertised to the public that at the
Hope Playhouse on October 7, 1614, he would engage in a contest of wit with one William Fennor,
who proudly styled himself "The King's Majesty's Riming Poet."[551] On the appointed day the
house was "fill'd with a great audience" that had paid extra money to hear the contest between
two such well-known extemporal wits. But Fennor did not appear. The result may best be told
by Taylor himself:

     I then stept out, their angers to appease;
     But they all raging, like tempestuous seas,
     Cry'd out, their expectations were defeated,
     And how they all were cony-catch'd and cheated.
     Some laught, some swore, some star'd and stamp'd and curst,
     And in confusèd humors all out burst.
     I (as I could) did stand the desp'rate shock,
     And bid the brunt of many dang'rous knock.
     For now the stinkards, in their ireful wraths,
     Bepelted me with lome, with stones, with laths.
     One madly sits like bottle-ale and hisses;
     Another throws a stone, and 'cause he misses,
     He yawnes and bawles, ...
     Some run to th' door to get again their coin ...
     One valiantly stepped upon the stage,
     And would tear down the hangings in his rage ...
     What I endur'd upon that earthly hell
     My tongue or pen cannot describe it well.[552]

[Footnote 551: Fennor is not to be confused (as is commonly done) with Vennar (see p. 177).
Such wit-contests were popular; Fennor had recently challenged Kendall, on the Fortune Stage.]

[Footnote 552: John Taylor's Works, Folio of 1630, p. 142; The Spenser Society's reprint, p. 304.]

At this point the actors came to his rescue and presented a play that mollified the audience.
Taylor had to content himself with a printed justification. The bitter invective of Taylor
against Fennor, Fennor's reply, and Taylor's several answers are to be found in the folio edition
of the Water-Poet's works. The episode doubtless furnished much amusement to the city.

Some three weeks after this event, on October 31, 1614, the Lady Elizabeth's Men produced with
great success Jonson's Bartholomew Fair; and on November 1 they were called upon to give the
play at Court. But the career of the company was in the main unhappy. Henslowe managed their
affairs on the theory that "should these fellows come out of my debt, I should have no rule
with them."[553] Accordingly in three years he "broke" and again reorganized them no fewer
than five times.

[Footnote 553: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 89.]

At last, in February, 1615, he not only "broke" the company, but severed his connection with
them for ever. He turned the hired men over to other troupes, and sold the stock of apparel
"to strangers" for £400. The indignant actors, in June, 1615, drew up "Articles of Grievance"
in which they charged Henslowe with having extorted from the company by unjust means the sum
of £567; and also "Articles of Oppression" in which they accused him of various dishonorable
practices in his dealings with them.[554]

[Footnote 554: Ibid., pp. 86, 89.]

Shortly after severing his connection with the Lady Elizabeth's Men, Henslowe, in March, 1615,
seems to have taken over Prince Charles's Men, who, it appears, had been acting at the Swan.
To this new company--the "strangers" referred to, I think--he had already transferred some
of the hirelings, and had sold the Hope stock of apparel for £400.

Henslowe died early in January of the following year, 1616, and his interest in the theatre
passed to Edward Alleyn. On March 20, 1616, Alleyn and Meade engaged Prince Charles's Men to
continue at the Hope "according to the former articles of agreement had and made with the said
Philip [Henslowe] and Jacob [Meade]."[555] The actors acknowledged themselves indebted to Henslowe
"for a stock of apparel used for playing apparel, to the value of £400, heretofore delivered
unto them by the said Philip,"[556]--the stock formerly used by the Lady Elizabeth's Men; and
Alleyn and Meade agreed to accept £200 in full discharge of that debt.[557]

[Footnote 555: Collier, Memoirs of Edward Alleyn, p. 127; Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 91.]

[Footnote 556: Collier, Memoirs of Edward Alleyn, p. 127.]

[Footnote 557: My interpretation of the relation of Henslowe to Prince Charles's Men differs
from the interpretation given by Fleay and adopted by Greg and others. For the evidence bearing
on the case see Fleay, Stage, pp. 188, 262; Greg, Henslowe's Diary, II, 138; Greg, Henslowe
Papers, p. 90, note; Chambers, Modern Language Review, IV, 165; Cunningham, Revels, p. xliv;
Wallace, Englische Studien, XLIII, 390; Murray, English Dramatic Companies.]

In the winter of 1616-17, Prince Charles's Men quarreled with Meade, who had appropriated an
extra day for his bear-baiting. Rosseter had just completed a new private theatre in Porter's
Hall, Blackfriars, and that stood invitingly open. So about February they abandoned the Hope,
and wrote a letter of explanation to Edward Alleyn: "I hope you mistake not our removal from
the Bankside. We stood the intemperate weather, 'till more intemperate Mr. Meade thrust us
over, taking the day from us which by course was ours."[558]

[Footnote 558: Greg, Henslowe Papers, p. 93. Cf. also the chapter on "Rosseter's Blackfriars."]

After the company quarreled with Meade and deserted the Hope, there is no evidence that the
building was again used for plays. It became associated almost entirely with animal-baiting,
fencing, feats of activity, and such-like performances; and gradually the very name "Hope,"
which was identified with acting, gave way to the earlier designation "Bear Garden." In 1632
the author of Holland's Leaguer remarks that "wild beasts and gladiators did most possess it";
and such must have been the chief use of the building down to 1642, when animal-baiting was
prohibited by Parliament.[559]

[Footnote 559: Collier, The History of English Dramatic Poetry (1879), III, 102; Ordish, Early
London Theatres, p. 237.]

On January 14, 1647, at the disposition of the Church lands, the Hope was sold for £1783 15s.[560]

[Footnote 560: Arthur Tiler, St. Saviour's, p. 51; Reed's Dodsley, IX, 175.]

In certain manuscript notes entered in the Phillipps copy of Stow's Annals (1631), we read:

     The Hope, on the Bankside, in Southwarke, commonly called
     the Bear Garden, a playhouse for stage-plays on Mondays,
     Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays, and for the baiting of
     Bears on Tuesdays and Thursdays, the stage being made to
     take up and down when they please. It was built in the year
     1610, and now pulled down to make tenements, by Thomas
     Walker, a petticoat-maker in Cannon Street, on Tuesday, the
     25 day of March, 1656. Seven of Mr. Godfrey's bears, by the
     command of Thomas Pride, then high sheriff of Surrey, were
     then shot to death on Saturday the 9 day of February, 1655
     [i.e. 1656], by a company of soldiers.[561]

[Footnote 561: Printed in The Academy, October 28, 1882, p. 314. The building, however, was
not pulled down "to the ground," though its interior may have been converted into tenements.

At the Restoration, when the royal sport of bear-baiting was revived,
the Hope was again fitted up as an amphitheatre and opened to the
public. His Majesty's game being now removed
     to the usual place on the Bankside, by Order of the Council,
     he recommended the Court of Aldermen to direct the Master
     and Wardens of the Butchers' Company to have their offal
     conveyed as formerly for the feeding of the bears, &c.[562]

[Footnote 562: The Remembrancia, p. 478. Quoted by Ordish, Early London Theatres, p. 241.]

For some years the Bear Garden flourished as it had in the days of Elizabeth and James. It
was frequently visited by Samuel Pepys, who has left vivid accounts of several performances there.

On January 7, 1676, the Spanish Ambassador was entertained at the Bear Garden, as we learn
from a warrant, dated March 28, 1676, for the payment of £10 "to James Davies, Esq., Master
of His Majesty's Bears, Bulls, and Dogs, for making ready the rooms at the Bear Garden, and
baiting of the bears before the Spanish Ambassador, the 7 January last, 1675 {6}."[563]

[Footnote 563: British Museum Additional MSS. 5750; quoted by Cunningham, Handbook of London
(1849), I, 67.]

Rendle[564] quotes from The Loyal Protestant an advertisement of an entertainment to be given
so late as 1682 "at the Hope on the Bankside, being His Majesty's Bear Garden." And Malcolm
writes the following account of the baiting of a horse there in April of the same year:

     Notice was given in the papers that on the twelfth of April
     a horse, of uncommon strength, and between 18 and 19 hands
     high, would be baited to death at his Majesty's
     Bear-Garden at the Hope on the Bankside, for the amusement
     of the Morocco ambassador, many of the nobility who knew the
     horse, and any others who would pay the price of admission.
     It seems this animal originally belonged to the Earl of
     Rochester, and being of a ferocious disposition, had killed
     several of his brethren; for which misdeed he was sold to
     the Earl of Dorchester; in whose service, committing several
     similar offenses, he was transferred to the worse than
     savages who kept the Bear-Garden. Soon after this date the "royal sport of bulls, bears, and
dogs" was moved to Hockley-in-the-hole, Clerkenwell, where, as the
advertisements inform us, at "His Majesty's Bear Garden" the baiting
of animals was to be frequently seen.[566] Strype, in his Survey of
London, thus describes Bear Garden Alley on the Bankside:

     Bear Alley runs into Maiden Lane. Here is a Glass House; and
     about the middle is a new-built Court, well inhabited,
     called Bear Garden Square, so called as built in the place
     where the Bear Garden formerly stood, until removed to the
     other side of the water: which is more convenient for the
     butchers, and such like who are taken with such rustic
     sports as the baiting of bears and bulls.[567]

[Footnote 566: The earliest advertisement of the Bear Garden at Hockley-in-the-hole that I
have come upon is dated 1700. For a discussion of the sports there see J.P. Malcolm, Anecdotes
of the Manners and Customs of London during the Eighteenth Century (1808), p. 321; Cunningham,
Handbook of London, under "Hockley"; W.B. Boulton, Amusements of Old London, vol. I, chap. I.]

[Footnote 567: Ordish (Early London Theatres, p. 242) is mistaken in thinking that the old
building was converted into a glass house. He says: "The last reference to the Hope shows that
it had declined to the point of extinction," and he quotes an advertisement from the Gazette,
June 18, 1681, as follows: "There is now made at the Bear Garden glass-house, on the Bankside,
crown window-glass, much exceeding French glass in all its qualifications, which may be squared
into all sizes of sashes for windows, and other uses, and may be had at most glaziers in London."
From Strype's Survey it is evident that the glass house was in Bear Garden Alley, but not on
the site of the old Bear Garden.]

In the map which he gives of this region (reproduced on page 245) the position of the Hope
is clearly marked by the square near the middle of Bear Alley.

CHAPTER XVII

ROSSETER'S BLACKFRIARS, OR PORTER'S HALL

Philip Rosseter, the poet and musician, first appears as a theatrical manager in 1610, when
he secured a royal patent for the Children of the Queen's Revels to act at Whitefriars. This
company performed there successfully under his management until March, 1613, when, for some
unknown reason, he formed a partnership with Philip Henslowe, who was managing the Lady Elizabeth's
Men at the Swan. The two companies were combined, and the new organization, under the name
of "The Lady Elizabeth's Men," made use of both playhouses, the Swan as a summer and the Whitefriars
as a winter home.

As already explained in the preceding chapters, Rosseter's lease on the Whitefriars Playhouse
was to expire in 1614, and apparently he was unable to renew the lease.[568] Naturally he and
his partner Henslowe were anxious to secure a private playhouse in the city to serve as a winter
home for their troupe, especially since the Swan was poorly situated for winter patronage.
Probably the opposition of the inhabitants of the district led to its prohibition.

[Footnote 568: Nathaniel Field, the leading actor at Whitefriars, published A Woman is a Weathercock
in 1612, with the statement to the reader: "If thou hast anything to say to me, thou know'st
where to hear of me for a year or two, and no more, I assure thee." Possibly this reflects
the failure of the managers to renew the lease; after 1614 Field did not know where he would
be acting. But editors have generally regarded it as meaning that Field intended to withdraw
from acting.]

[Footnote 569: Malone, Variorum, III, 52.]

At the expiration of one year, in March, 1614, Rosseter withdrew from his partnership with
Henslowe, and on the old patent of the Children of the Queen's Revels (which he had retained)
organized a new company to travel in the country.

In the following year, 1615, he and certain others, Philip Kingman, Robert Jones, and Ralph
Reeve, secured a lease of "diverse buildings, cellars, sollars, chambers, and yards for the
building of a playhouse thereupon for the better practising and exercise of the said Children
of the Revels; all which premises are situate and being within the precinct of the Blackfriars,
near Puddlewharf, in the suburbs of London, called by the name of the Lady Saunders's House,
or otherwise Porter's Hall."[570] It was their purpose to convert this hall into a playhouse
to rival the near-by Blackfriars; and in accordance with this purpose, on June 3, 1615, Rosseter
secured a royal license under the Great Seal of England "to erect, build, and set up in and
upon the said premises before mentioned one convenient playhouse for the said Children of the
Revels, the same playhouse to be used by the Children of the Revels for the time being of the
Queene's Majesty, and for the Prince's Players, and for the Lady Elizabeth's Players."[571]

[Footnote 570: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 277. For the location of Puddlewharf see
the map of the Blackfriars precinct on page 94.]

[Footnote 571: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 277.]

The work of converting Porter's Hall into a playhouse seems to have begun at once. On September
26, 1615, the Privy Council records "that one Rosseter, and others, having obtained license
under the Great Seal of England for the building of a playhouse, have pulled down [i.e., stripped
the interior of] a great messuage in Puddlewharf, which was sometimes the house of the Lady
Saunders, within the precinct of the Blackfriars, and are now erecting a new playhouse in that
place."[572]

[Footnote 572: Ibid., p. 373.]

The city authorities, always hostile to the actors and jealous of any new theatres, made so
vigorous a complaint to the Privy Council that the Lords of the Council "thought fit to send
for Rosseter." He came, bringing his royal license. This document was carefully "perused by
the Lord Chief Justice of England," who succeeded in discovering in the wording of one of its
clauses a trivial flaw that would enable the Privy Council, on a technicality, to prohibit
the building: "The Lord Chief Justice did deliver to their Lordships that the license granted
to the said Rosseter did extend to the building of a playhouse without the liberties of London,
and not within the city."[573] Now, in 1608 the liberty of Blackfriars had by a special royal
grant been placed within the jurisdiction of the city.

[Footnote 573: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 373.]

Since "the inconveniences urged by the Lord Mayor and Aldermen were many," the Lords of the
Privy Council decided to take advantage of the flaw discovered by the Lord Chief Justice, and
prohibit the erection of the playhouse. Their order, issued September 26, 1615, reads as follows:

     It was this day ordered by their Lordships that there shall
     be no playhouse erected in that place, and that the Lord
     Mayor of London shall straightly prohibit the said Rosseter
     and the rest of the patentees, and their workmen to proceed
     in the making and converting the said building into a
     playhouse. And if any of the patentees or their workmen
     shall proceed in their intended building contrary to this
     their Lordships' inhibition, that then the Lord Mayor shall
     commit him or them so offending unto prison and certify
     their Lordships of their contempt in that behalf.[574]

[Footnote 574: Ibid.]

This order, for the time being, halted work on the new playhouse. The Children of the Revels
were forced to spend the next year traveling in the provinces; and the Lady Elizabeth's Men
and Prince Charles's Men had to remain on the Bankside and endure the oppressions of Henslowe
and later of Meade. Possibly their sufferings at the hands of Meade led them to urge Rosseter
to complete at once the much desired house in the city. At any rate, in the winter of 1616,
Rosseter, believing himself strongly enough entrenched behind his royal patent, resumed work
on converting Porter's Hall into a theatre. The city authorities issued "diverse commandments
and prohibitions," but he paid no attention to these, and pushed the work to completion. The
building seems to have been ready for the actors about the first of January, 1617. Thereupon
the company which had been occupying the Hope deserted that playhouse and "came over" to Rosseter's
Blackfriars.[575] In the new playhouse they presented Nathaniel Field's comedy, Amends for
Ladies, which was printed the following year "as it was acted at the Blackfriars both by the
Prince's Servants and the Lady Elizabeth's."

[Footnote 575: See the chapter on "The Hope."]

The actors, however, were not allowed to enjoy their new home very long. On January 27, 1617,
the Privy Council dispatched the following letter to the Lord Mayor:

     Whereas His Majesty is informed that notwithstanding diverse
     commandments and prohibitions to the contrary, there be
     certain persons that go about to set up a playhouse in the
     Blackfriars near unto His Majesty's Wardrobe, and for that
     purpose have lately erected and made fit a building, which
     is almost if not fully finished. You shall understand that
     His Majesty hath this day expressly signified his pleasure
     that the same shall be pulled down, so as it be made unfit
     for any such use; whereof we require your Lordship to take
     notice and to cause it to be performed accordingly, with all
     speed, and thereupon to certify us of your proceeding.

There can be no doubt that an order so peremptory, carrying the authority both of the Privy
Council and of the King, and requiring an immediate report, was performed "with all speed."
After this we hear nothing more of the playhouse in Puddlewharf.[576]

[Footnote 576: I can find no further reference to the Puddlewharf Theatre either in the Records
of the Privy Council or in the Remembrancia of the City. Collier, however, in his History of
English Dramatic Poetry (1879), I, 384, says: "The city authorities proceeded immediately to
the work, and before three days had elapsed, the Privy Council was duly and formally made acquainted
with the fact that Rosseter's theatre had been 'made unfit for any such use' as that for which
it had been constructed." Collier fails to cite his authority for the statement; the passage
he quotes may be found in the order of the Privy Council printed above.]

CHAPTER XVIII

THE PHOENIX, OR COCKPIT IN DRURY LANE

The private playhouse opened in Drury Lane[577] in 1617 seems to have been officially named
"The Phoenix"; but to the players and the public alike it was more commonly known as "The Cockpit."
This implies some earlier connection of the site or of the building with cock-fighting, from
time out of mind a favorite sport in England. These pits, it seems, were circular in shape,
and if large enough might well be used for dramatic purposes.

[Footnote 577: Its exact position in Drury Lane is indicated by an order of the Privy Council,
June 8, 1623, concerning the paving of a street at the rear of the theatre: "Whereas the highway
leading along the backside of the Cockpit Playhouse near Lincolns Inn Fields, and the street
called Queens Street adjoining to the same, are become very foul," etc. (See The Malone Society
Collections, I, 383. Queens Street may be readily found in Faithorne's Map of London.) Malone
(Variorum, III, 53) states that "it was situated opposite the Castle Tavern." The site is said
to be marked by Pit Court.]

It is possible, then, that the building was an old cockpit made into a playhouse. Howes,[578]
in enumerating the London theatres, says: "Five inns or common hostelries turned into playhouses,
one cockpit, St. Paul's singing-school," etc. And Thomas Randolph, in verses prefixed to James
Shirley's Grateful Servant (printed in 1630 as it was acted "in the private house in Drury
Lane"), suggests the same metamorphosis:

     When thy intelligence on the Cockpit stage
     Gives it a soul from her immortal rage,
     I hear the Muse's birds with full delight
     Sing where the birds of Mars were wont to fight.

[Footnote 578: Stow's Annals (1631), p. 1004.]

But in this fantastic conceit Randolph may have been thinking simply of the name of the theatre;
possibly he knew nothing of its early history. On the whole it seems more likely that the playhouse
was newly erected in 1617 upon the site of an old cockpit. The name "Phoenix" suggests that
possibly the old cockpit had been destroyed by fire, and that from its ashes had arisen a new
building.[579] Howes describes the Phoenix as being in 1617 "a new playhouse,"[580] and Camden,
who is usually accurate in such matters, refers to it in the same year as "nuper erectum."[581]

[Footnote 579: Some scholars have supposed that the playhouse, when attacked by the apprentices
in 1617, was burned, and that the name "Phoenix" was given to the building after its reconstruction.
But the building was not burned; it was merely wrecked on the inside by apprentices.]

[Footnote 580: Continuation of Stow's Annals (1631), p. 1026.]

[Footnote 581: William Camden, Annals, under the date of March 4, 1617. Yet Sir Sidney Lee
(A Life of William Shakespeare, p. 60) says, "built about 1610."]

Of its size and shape all our information comes from James Wright, who in his Historia Histrionica[582]
tells us that the Cockpit differed in no essential feature from Blackfriars and Salisbury Court,
"for they were all three built almost exactly alike for form and bigness." Since we know that
Blackfriars and Salisbury Court were small rectangular theatres, the former constructed in
a hall forty-six feet broad and sixty-six feet long, the latter erected on a plot of ground
forty-two feet broad and one hundred and forty feet long, we are not left entirely ignorant
of the shape and the approximate size of the Cockpit.[583] And from Middleton's Inner Temple
Masque (1618) we learn that it was constructed of brick. Its sign, presumably, was that of
a phoenix rising out of flames.

[Footnote 582: Hazlitt's Dodsley, XV, 408.]

[Footnote 583: Fleay and Lawrence are wrong in supposing that the Cockpit was circular.]

The playhouse was erected and managed by Christopher Beeston,[584] one of the most important
actors and theatrical managers of the Elizabethan period. We first hear of him as a member
of Shakespeare's troupe. In 1602 he joined Worcester's Company. In 1612 he became the manager
of Queen Anne's Company at the Red Bull. He is described at that time as "a thriving man, and
one that was of ability and means."[585] He continued as manager of the Queen Anne's Men at
the Red Bull until 1617, when he transferred them to his new playhouse in Drury Lane.

[Footnote 584: Alias Christopher Hutchinson. Several actors of the day employed aliases: Nicholas
Wilkinson, alias Tooley; Theophilus Bourne, alias Bird; James Dunstan, alias Tunstall, etc.
Whether Beeston admitted other persons to a share in the building I cannot learn. In a passage
quoted by Malone (Variorum, III, 121) from the Herbert Manuscript, dated February 20, 1635,
there is a reference to "housekeepers," indicating that Beeston had then admitted "sharers"
in the proprietorship of the building. And in an order of the Privy Council, May 12, 1637 (The
Malone Society's Collections, I, 392), we read: "Command the keepers of the playhouse called
the Cockpit in Drury Lane, who either live in it or have relation to it, not to permit plays
to be acted there till further order."]

[Footnote 585: Wallace, Three London Theatres, p. 35.]

The playhouse seems to have been ready to receive the players about the end of February, 1617.
We know that they were still performing at the Red Bull as late as February 23;[586] but by
March 4 they had certainly moved to the Cockpit.

[Footnote 586: Wallace, ibid., pp. 32, 46. John Smith was delivering silk and other clothes
to the Queen Anne's Men at the Red Bull from 1612 until February 23, 1617.]

On the latter date, during the performance of a play, the Cockpit was entered by a mob of disorderly
persons, who proceeded to demolish the interior. The occasion for the wrecking of the new playhouse
was the Shrove Tuesday saturnalia of the London apprentices, who from time immemorial had employed
this holiday to pull down houses of ill-fame in the suburbs. That the Cockpit was situated
in the neighborhood of such houses cannot be doubted. We may suppose that the mob, fresh from
sacking buildings, had crowded into the playhouse in the afternoon, and before the play was
over had wrecked that building too.

The event created a great stir at the time. William Camden, in his Annals, wrote under the
date of March 4, 1617:

     Theatrum ludiorum, nuper erectum in Drury Lane, a furente
     multitudine diruitur, et apparatus dilaceratur.

Howes, in his continuation of Stow's Annals, writes:

     Shrove-Tuesday, the fourth of March, many disordered persons
     of sundry kinds, amongst whom were very many young boys and
     lads, that assembled themselves in Lincolnes Inn Field,
     Finsbury Field, in Ratcliffe, and Stepney Field, where in
     riotous manner they did beat down the walls and windows of
     many victualing houses and of all other houses which they
     suspected to be bawdy houses. And that afternoon they
     spoiled a new playhouse, and did likewise more hurt in
     diverse other places.[587]

[Footnote 587: Annals (1631), p. 1026.]

That several persons were killed, and many injured, is disclosed by a letter from the Privy
Council to the Lord Mayor, dated March 5, 1617:

     It is not unknown unto you what tumultuous outrages were
     yesterday committed near unto the city of London in diverse
     places by a rowt of lewd and loose persons, apprentices and
     others, especially in Lincolns Inn Fields and Drury Lane,
     where in attempting to pull down a playhouse belonging to
     the Queen's Majesty's Servants, there were diverse persons
     slain, and others hurt and wounded, the multitude there
     assembled being to the number of many thousands, as we are
     credibly informed.[588]

[Footnote 588: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 374. Collier, in The History of English
Dramatic Poetry (1879), I, 386, prints a long ballad on the event; but he does not give its
source, and its genuineness has been questioned. The following year threats to pull down the
Fortune, the Red Bull, and the Cockpit led to the setting of special watches. See The Malone
Society's Collections, I, 377.]

The Queen's Men returned to the Red Bull and acted there until their ruined playhouse could
be repaired. Three months later, on June 3, they again occupied the Cockpit,[589] and continued
there until the death of Queen Anne on March 2, 1619.[590]

[Footnote 589: Greenstreet, Documents, The New Shakspere Society's Transactions (1880-86), p. 504.]

[Footnote 590: Mr. Wallace (Three London Theatres, p. 29) says that the documents he prints
make it "as certain as circumstances unsupported by contemporary declaration can make it, that
Queen Anne's company occupied the Red Bull continuously from the time of its erection ... till
their dissolution, 1619." His documents make it certain only that Queen Anne's Men occupied
the Red Bull until February 23, 1617. Other documents prove that they occupied the Cockpit
from 1617 until 1619. (Note the letter of the Privy Council quoted above.) The documents printed
by Greenstreet show that Queen Anne's Men moved to the Cockpit on June 3, 1617, and continued
there.]

This event led to the dissolution of the company. For a year or more its members had been "falling
at variance and strife amongst themselves," and when the death of the Queen deprived them of
a "service," they "separated and divided themselves into other companies."[591] As a result
of the quarrels certain members of the company made charges against their former manager, Beeston:
"The said Beeston having from the beginning a greater care for his own private gain, and not
respecting the good of these defendants and the rest of his fellows and companions, hath in
the place and trust aforesaid much enriched himself, and hath of late given over his coat and
condition,[592] and separated and divided himself from these defendants, carrying away not
only all the furniture and apparel," etc.[593] The charges against Beeston's honesty may be
dismissed; but it seems clear that he had withdrawn from his former companions, and was preparing
to entertain a new troupe of actors at his playhouse. And Beeston himself tells us, on November
23, 1619, that "after Her Majesty's decease, he entered into the service of the most noble
Prince Charles."[594] Thus Prince Charles's Men, after their unfortunate experiences at the
Hope and at Rosseter's Blackfriars, came to Beeston's playhouse, where they remained until
1622. In the spring of that year, however, they moved to the Curtain, and the Princess Elizabeth's
Men occupied the Cockpit.[595] Under their tenancy, the playhouse seems to have attained an
enviable reputation. Heminges and Condell, in the epistle to the readers, prefixed to the Folio
of Shakespeare (1623), bear testimony to this in the following terms: "And though you be a
Magistrate of Wit, and sit on the stage at Blackfriars, or the Cockpit, to arraign plays daily."
A further indication of their prosperity is to be found in the records of St. Giles's Church;
for when in 1623 the parish undertook the erection of a new church building, "the players of
the Cockpit," we are informed, contributed the large sum of £20, and the proprietors, represented
by Christopher Beeston, gave £19 1s. 5d.[596]

[Footnote 591: Wallace, Three London Theatres, p. 33.]

[Footnote 592: He had joined Prince Charles's Men.]

[Footnote 593: Wallace, Three London Theatres, p. 38.]

[Footnote 594: Ibid., p. 40. Fleay, Murray, and others have contended that the Princess Elizabeth's
Men came to the Cockpit in 1619, and have denied the accuracy of the title-page of The Witch
of Edmonton (1658), which declares that play to have been "acted by the Prince's Servants at
the Cockpit often." (See Fleay, A Chronicle History of the London Stage, p. 299.)]

[Footnote 595: Malone, Variorum, III, 59.]

[Footnote 596: John Parton, Some Account of the Hospital and Parish of St. Giles in the Fields,
p. 235. From a parish entry in 1660 we learn that the players had to contribute 2d. to the
parish poor for each day that there was acting at the Cockpit. (See ibid., p. 236.)]

The Princess Elizabeth's Men continued to act at the Cockpit until May, 1625, when all theatres
were closed on account of the plague. Beeston made this the occasion to organize a new company
called "Queen Henrietta's Men"; and when the theatres were allowed to reopen, about December,
1625,[597] this new company was in possession of the Cockpit. But the reputation of the playhouse
seems not to have been enhanced by the performances of this troupe. In 1629, Lenton, in The
Young Gallant's Whirligig, writes sneeringly:

     The Cockpit heretofore would serve his wit,
     But now upon the Friars' Stage he'll sit.

[Footnote 597: In the Middlesex County Records, III, 6, we find that on December 6, 1625, because
"the drawing of people together to places was a great means of spreading and continuing the
infection ... this Court doth prohibit the players of the house at the Cockpit, being next
to His Majesty's Court at Whitehall, commanding them to surcease all such their proceedings
until His Majesty's pleasure be further signified." Apparently the playhouses in general had
been allowed to resume performances; and since by December 24 there had been no deaths from
the plague for a week, the special inhibition of the Cockpit Playhouse was soon lifted.]

And in the following year, 1630, Thomas Carew in verses prefixed to Davenport's Just Italian,
attacks the Red Bull and the Cockpit as "adulterate" stages where "noise prevails," and "not
a tongue of th' untun'd kennel can a line repeat of serious sense." Queen Henrietta's Men probably
continued to occupy the building until May 12, 1636, when the theatres were again closed on
account of a serious outbreak of the plague. The plague continued for nearly a year and a half,
and during this time the company was dissolved.[598]

[Footnote 598: "When Her Majesty's Servants were at the Cockpit, being all at liberty, they
dispersed themselves to several companies." (Heton's Patent, 1639, The Shakespeare Society
Papers, IV, 96.)]

Before the plague had ceased, early in 1637, "Mr. Beeston was commanded to make a company of
boys."[599] In the Office-Book of the Lord Chamberlain we find, under the date of February
21, 1637: "Warrant to swear Mr. Christopher Beeston His Majesty's Servant in the place of Governor
of the new company of The King's and Queen's Boys."[600] The first recorded performance by
this new company was at Court on February 7, 1637.[601] On February 23, the number of deaths
from the plague having diminished, acting was again permitted; but at the expiration of one
week, on March 2, the number of deaths having increased, all playhouses were again closed.
During this single week the King's and Queen's Boys, we may suppose, acted at the Cockpit.[602]

[Footnote 599: Herbert Manuscript, Malone, Variorum, III, 240.]

[Footnote 600: Stopes, "Shakespeare's Fellows and Followers," Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XLVI, 99.
In 1639 Heton applied for a patent as "Governor" of the company at Salisbury Court.]

[Footnote 601: On May 10 Beeston was paid for "two plays acted by the New Company." For which,
since he perceives it is imputed as a fault, he is very sorry, and craves pardon."[604]

[Footnote 603: The Malone Society's Collections, I, 392.]

[Footnote 604: The Calendar of State Papers, Domestic, 1636-1637, p. 254.]

On September 17, 1637, "Christopher Beeston, His Majesty's servant, by petition to the Board,
showed that he hath many young actors lying unpractised by reason of the restraint occasioned
by infection of the plague, whereby they are much disabled to perform their service, and besought
that they might have leave to practise. It was ordered that Beeston should be at liberty to
practise his actors at Michaelmas next [September 29], if there be no considerable increase
of the sickness, nor that there die more than died last week."[605]

[Footnote 605: Ibid., 1637, p. 420.]

On October 2, 1637, the plague having abated, all playhouses were opened, and the King's and
Queen's Boys, Herbert tells us, began to play at the Cockpit "the same day."[606] Here, under
the popular name of "Beeston's Boys," they enjoyed a long and successful career, which ended
only with the prohibition of acting in 1642.

[Footnote 606: Malone, Variorum, III, 240.]

In 1639 Christopher Beeston died, and the position of Governor of the Boys was conferred upon
his son, William Beeston, who had long been associated in the management of the company,[607]
and who, if we may believe Francis Kirkman, was admirably qualified for the position.

[Footnote 607: He is referred to as their Governor on August 10, 1639; see Malone, Variorum,
III, 159.]

But in spite of all this, William Beeston's career as Governor was of short duration. About
the first of May, 1640, he allowed the Boys to act without license a play that gave great offense
to the King. Herbert, the Master of the Revels, writes of this play that it "had relation to
the passages of the King's journey into the north, and was complained of by His Majesty to
me, with command to punish the offenders."[608] In the Office-Book of the Lord Chamberlain,
under the date of May 3, 1640, we read:

     Whereas William Beeston and the company of the players of
     the Cockpit, in Drury Lane, have lately acted a new play
     without any license from the Master of His Majesty's Revels,
     and being commanded to forbear playing or acting of the same
     play by the said Master of the Revels, and commanded
     likewise to forbear all manner of playing, have
     notwithstanding, in contempt of the authority of the said
     Master of the Revels, and the power granted unto him under
     the Great Seal of England, acted the said play, and others,
     to the prejudice of His Majesty's service, and in contempt
     of the Office of the Revels, [whereby] he and they and all
     other companies ever have been and ought to be governed and
     regulated: These are therefore in His Majesty's name, and
     signification of his royal pleasure, to command the said
     William Beeston and the rest of that company of the Cockpit
     players from henceforth and upon sight hereof, to forbear to
     act any plays whatsoever until they shall be restored by the
     said Master of the Revels unto their former liberty. Whereof
     all parties concernable are to take notice, and conform
     accordingly, as they and every one of them will answer it at
     their peril.[609]

[Footnote 608: Malone, Variorum, III, 241.]

[Footnote 609: Collier, The History of English Dramatic Poetry (1879), II, 32; Stopes, op.
cit., p. 102.]

Herbert records in his Office-Book:

     On Monday the 4 May, 1640, William Beeston was taken by a
     messenger and committed to the Marshalsea by my Lord
     Chamberlain's warrant, for playing a play without license.
     The same day the company at the Cockpit was commanded by my
     Lord Chamberlain's warrant to forbear playing, for playing
     when they were forbidden by me, and for other disobedience,
     and lay still Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. On Thursday,
     at my Lord Chamberlain's entreaty, I gave them their
     liberty, and upon their petition of submission subscribed by
     the players, I restored them to their liberty on
     Thursday.[610]

[Footnote 610: Malone, Variorum, III, 241. Herbert did not forget Beeston's insubordination,
and in 1660, in issuing to Beeston a license to use the Salisbury Court Playhouse, he inserted
clauses to prevent further difficulty of this kind (see Variorum, III, 243).]

To this period of Beeston's imprisonment I should refer the puzzling Epilogue of Brome's The
Court Beggar:

     There's wit in that now. But this small Poet vents none but
     his own, and his by whose care and directions this Stage is
     govern'd, who has for many years, both in his father's days,
     and since, directed Poets to write and Players to speak,
     till he trained up these youths here to what they are now.
     Aye, some of 'em from before they were able to say a grace
     of two lines long to have more parts in their pates than
     would fill so many Dry-vats. And to be serious with you, if
     after all this, by the venomous practice of some, who study
     nothing more than his destruction, he should fail us, both
     Poets and Players would be at loss in reputation.

His "destruction" was wrought, nevertheless, for as a result of his indiscretion he was deposed
from his position as Governor of the King's and Queen's Company, and William Davenant was appointed
in his place. In the Office-Book of the Lord Chamberlain under the date of June 27, 1640,[611]
appears the following entry with the heading, "Mr. Davenant Governor of the Cockpit Players":

     Whereas in the playhouse or theatre commonly called the
     Cockpit, in Drury Lane, there are a company of players
     authorized by me (as Lord Chamberlain to His Majesty) to
     play or act under the title of The King's and Queen's
     Servants, and that by reason of some disorders lately
     amongst them committed they are disabled in their service
     and quality: These are therefore to signify that by the same
     authority I do authorize and appoint William Davenant,
     Gent., one of Her Majesty's servants, for me and in my name
     to take into his government and care the said company of
     players, to govern, order, and dispose of them for action
     and presentments, and all their affairs in the said house,
     as in his discretion shall seem best to conduce to His
     Majesty's service in that quality.

The history of the playhouse during the troubled years that followed is varied. In the churchwarden's
account of St. Giles's Parish is found the entry: "1646. Paid and given to the teacher at the
Cockpit of the children, 6d."[613] Apparently the old playhouse was then being temporarily
used as a school. Some were killed, many won distinction; and "when the wars were over, and
the royalists totally subdued, most of 'em who were left alive gathered to London, and for
a subsistence endeavored to revive their old trade privately. They made up one company out
of all the scattered members of several, and in the winter before the King's murder, 1648,
they ventured to act some plays, with as much caution and privacy as could be, at the Cockpit."
John Evelyn records in his Diary, under the date of February 5, 1648: "Saw a tragicomedy acted
in the Cockpit after there had been none of these diversions for many years during the war."
Trouble, however, was brewing for these daring actors. The Phoenix, in Drury Lane, was pulled
down also this day, being Saturday the 24 day of March, 1649, by the same soldiers."[615] In
the passage quoted, "pulled-down" merely means that the stage and its equipment, and possibly
a part of the galleries and the seats, were wrecked, not that the walls of the building itself
were thrown down.

[Footnote 615: See The Academy, October 28, 1882, p. 314. The soldiers here mentioned also
"pulled down on the inside" the Fortune playhouse.]

In 1656 Sir William Davenant undertook to create a form of dramatic entertainment which would
be tolerated by the authorities. The Lord Protector was known to be a lover of music. Sir William,
therefore, applied for permission to give operatic entertainments, "after the manner of the
antients," the "story sung in recitative music," and the representation made "by the art of
perspective in scenes." To such entertainments, he thought, no one could object. He was wise
enough to give his first performances at Rutland House; but in 1658 he moved to the Cockpit,
where, says Aubrey, "were acted very well, stylo recitativo, Sir Francis Drake and The Siege
of Rhodes (1st and 2d parts). It did affect the eye and ear extremely. This first brought scenes
in fashion in England; before at plays was only a hanging." Thus the Cockpit had the distinction
of being the first English playhouse in which scenery was employed, and, one should add, the
first English home of the opera.[616]

[Footnote 616: For a discussion of Davenant's attempts to introduce the opera into England,
see W.J. Lawrence, The Elizabethan Playhouse (Second Series), pp. 129 ff.]

Later in the same year, 1658, Davenant exhibited at the Cockpit The Cruelty of the Spaniards
in Peru; but this performance excited the suspicion of the authorities, who on December 23
sent for "the poet and the actors" to explain "by what authority the same is exposed to public
view."[617]

[Footnote 617: Malone, Variorum, III, 93; Collier, The History of English Dramatic Poetry (1879),
II, 48.]

"In the year 1659," writes John Downes in his Roscius Anglicanus, "General Monk marching then
his army out of Scotland to London, Mr. Rhodes, a bookseller, being wardrobe-keeper formerly
(as I am informed) to King Charles the First's company of commedians in Blackfriars, getting
a license from the then governing state,[618] fitted up a house then for acting, called the
Cockpit, in Drury Lane, and in a short time completed his company." If this statement is correct,
the time must have been early in the year 1659-60, and the company must have attempted at first
to play without a proper license. From the Middlesex County Records (III, 282), we learn that
one of their important actors, Thomas Lilleston, was held under bond for having performed "a
public stage-play this present 4th of February [1659-60] in the Cockpit in Drury Lane in the
parish of St. Giles-in-the-Fields, contrary to the law in that case made"; and in the Parish
Book[619] of St. Giles we find the entry: "1659. Received of Isack Smith, which he received
at the Cockpit playhouse of several offenders, by order of the justices, £3 8s. 6d." Shortly
after this, it is to be presumed, the company under Rhodes's management secured the "license
of the then governing state" mentioned by Downes, and continued thereafter without interruption.
The star of this company was Betterton, whose splendid acting at once captivated London. Pepys
went often to the theatre, and has left us some interesting notes of his experiences there.

[Footnote 618: For his troubles with the Master of the Revels see Halliwell-Phillipps, A Collection
of Ancient Documents, p. 26.]

[Footnote 619: Parton, op. cit., p. 236.]

Again on October 11, 1660, he writes:

     Here in the Park we met with Mr. Salisbury, who took Mr.
     Creed and me to the Cockpit to see The Moor of Venice,
     which was well done. Burt acted the Moor, by the same token
     a very pretty lady that sat by me called out to see
     Desdemona smothered.

The subsequent history of the Cockpit falls outside the scope of the present treatise. The
reader who desires to trace the part the building played in the Restoration would do well to
consult the numerous documents printed by Malone from the Herbert Manuscript.[620]

[Footnote 620: Malone, Variorum, III, 244 ff.]

CHAPTER XIX

SALISBURY COURT

The Salisbury Court Playhouse[621] was projected and built by two men whose very names are
unfamiliar to most students of the drama--Richard Gunnell and William Blagrove. Yet Gunnell
was a distinguished actor, and was associated with the ownership and management of at least
two theatres. Even so early as 1613 his reputation as a player was sufficient to warrant his
inclusion as a full sharer in the Palsgrave's Company, then acting at the Fortune. When the
Fortune was rebuilt after its destruction by fire in 1621, he purchased one of the twelve shares
in the new building, and rose to be manager of the company.[622] In addition to managing the
company he also, as we learn from the Herbert Manuscript, supplied the actors with plays. In
1623 he composed The Hungarian Lion, obviously a comedy, and in the following year The Way
to Content all Women, or How a Man May Please his Wife.[623] Of William Blagrove I can learn
little more than that he was Deputy to the Master of the Revels. In this capacity he signed
the license for Glapthorne's Lady Mother, October 15, 1635; and his name appears several times
in the Herbert Manuscript in connection with the payments of various companies.[624] Possibly
he was related to Thomas Blagrove who during the reign of Elizabeth was an important member
of the Revels Office, and who for a time served as Master of the Revels.

[Footnote 621: The playhouse discussed in this chapter was officially known as "The Salisbury
Court Playhouse," and it should always be referred to by that name. Unfortunately, owing to
its situation near the district of Whitefriars, it was sometimes loosely, though incorrectly,
called "Whitefriars." Since it had no relation whatever to the theatre formerly in the Manor-House
of Whitefriars, a perpetuation of this false nomenclature is highly undesirable.]

[Footnote 622: Malone, Variorum, III, 66.]

[Footnote 623: Chalmers's Supplemental Apology, pp. 216-17. He may also have been the author
of a play called The Masque, which Herbert in 1624 licensed: "For the Palsgrave's Company,
a new play called The Masque." In the list of manuscript plays collected by Warburton we find
the title A Mask, and the authorship ascribed to R. Govell. Since "R. Govell" is not otherwise
heard of, we may reasonably suppose that this was Warburton's reading of "R. Gunell." Gunnell
also prefixed a poem to the Works of Captain John Smith, 1626.]

[Footnote 624: Malone, Variorum, III, 66, 122, 176, 177.]

What threw these two men together in a theatrical partnership we do not know. But in the summer
of 1629 they decided to build a private playhouse to compete with the successful Blackfriars
and Cockpit; and for this purpose they leased from the Earl of Dorset a plot of ground situated
to the east of the precinct of Whitefriars. The ground thus leased opened on Salisbury Court;
hence the name, "The Salisbury Court Playhouse." In the words of the legal document, the Earl
of Dorset "in consideration that Richard Gunnell and William Blagrove should at their costs
and charges erect a playhouse and other buildings at the lower end of Salisbury Court, in the
parish of St. Bridges, in the ward of Farringdon Without, did demise to the said Gunnell and
Blagrove a piece of ground at the same lower end of Salisbury Court, containing one hundred
and forty foot in length and forty-two in breadth ... for forty-one years and a half." The
lease was signed on July 6, 1629. Nine days later, on July 15, the Earl of Dorset, "in consideration
of nine hundred and fifty pounds paid to the said late Earl by John Herne, of Lincoln's Inn,
Esquire, did demise to hire the said piece of ground and [the] building [i.e., the playhouse]
thereupon to be erected, and the rent reserved upon the said lease made to Gunnell and Blagrove."
Herne's lease was for a term of sixty-one years. The effect of this second lease was merely
to make Herne, instead of the Earl of Dorset, the landlord of the players.

The plot of ground selected for the playhouse is described with exactness in the lease printed
below. The letters inserted in brackets refer to the accompanying diagram (see page 371):

     All that soil and ground whereupon the Barn {A}, at the
     lower end of the great back court, or yard of Salisbury
     Court, now stands; and so much of the soil whereupon the
     whole south end of the great stable in the said court or
     yard stands, or contains, from that end of that stable
     towards the north end thereof sixteen foot of assize, and
     the whole breadth of the said stable {B}; and all the ground
     and soil on the east and west side of that stable lying
     directly against the said sixteen foot of ground at the
     south end thereof between the wall of the great garden
     belonging to the mansion called Dorset House and the wall
     that severs the said Court from the lane called Water Lane
     {C and D}; and all the ground and soil being between the
     said walls on the east and west part thereof, and the said
     barn, stable, and ground on both side the same on the south
     and north parts thereof {E}. Which said several parcells of
     soil and ground ... contain, in the whole length ... one
     hundred and forty foot of assize, and in breadth ... forty
     and two foot of assize, and lies together at the lower end
     of the said Court.

This plot, one hundred and forty feet in length by forty-two in breadth, was small for its
purpose, and the playhouse must have covered all the breadth and most of the length of the
leased ground;[625] there was no actual need of leaving any part of the plot vacant, for the
theatre adjoined the Court, and "free ingress, egress, and regress" to the building were stipulated
in the lease "by, through, and on any part of the Court called Salisbury Court."

[Footnote 625: The Blackfriars auditorium was sixty-six feet in length and forty-six feet in
breadth.]

At once Gunnell and Blagrove set about the erection of their playhouse. They may have utilized
in some way the "great barn" which occupied most of their property; one of the legal documents
printed by Cunningham contains the phrase: "and the great barn, which was afterwards the playhouse."[626]
If this be true--I think it very doubtful--the reconstruction must have been thorough, for
Howes, in his continuation of Stow's Annals (1631), speaks of Salisbury Court as "a new, fair
playhouse";[627] and in all respects it seems to have ranked with the best.

[Footnote 626: Cunningham, The Shakespeare Society's Papers, IV, 104. In his Handbook for London
Cunningham says that the Salisbury Court Playhouse "was originally the 'barn.'"]

[Footnote 627: Annals (1631), p. 1004. In 1633 Prynne (Histriomastix) refers to it as a "new
theatre erected."]

We know very little of the building. But Wright, in his Historia Histrionica, informs us that
it was "almost exactly like" the two other private houses, the Blackfriars and the Cockpit:

     True. The Blackfriars, Cockpit, and Salisbury Court were
     called private houses, and were very small to what we see
     now. The Cockpit was standing since the Restoration, and
     Rhodes' company acted there for some time.

     Love. I have seen that.

     True. Then you have seen the other two in effect, for they
     were all three built almost exactly alike for form and
     bigness.[628]

[Footnote 628: Collier, The History of English Dramatic Literature (1879), III, 106, thought
that Salisbury Court was a round playhouse, basing his opinion on a line in Sharpe's Noble
Stranger acted at "the private house in Salisbury Court": "Thy Stranger to the Globe-like theatre."]

In spite of what Wright says, however, there is some reason for believing that Salisbury Court
was smaller than the other two private houses. The Epilogue to Totenham Court refers to it
as "my little house"; and the Epistle affixed to the second edition of Sir Giles Goosecappe
is said to convey the same impression of smallness.[629]

[Footnote 629: I have not been able to examine this. In the only copy of the second edition
accessible to me the Epistle is missing.]

According to Malone, Sir Henry Herbert, the Master of the Revels, was "one of the proprietors"
of the house, and held a "ninth share" in the profits.[630] This, however, is not strictly
accurate. Sir Henry, by virtue of his power to license playhouses, demanded from each organization
of players an annual fee. The King's Men gave him two benefit performances a year; Christopher
Beeston, on behalf of the Cockpit in Drury Lane, paid him £60 a year; as for the rest, Herbert
tells us that he had "a share paid by the Fortune Players, and a share by the Bull Players,
and a share by the Salisbury Court Players."[631] It seems, therefore, that the Salisbury Court
organization was divided into eight shares, and that of the profits an extra, or ninth, share
was set aside as a fee for the Master of the Revels.

[Footnote 630: Malone, Variorum, III, 178.]

[Footnote 631: Halliwell-Phillipps, A Collection of Ancient Documents, p. 27.]

The playhouse was ready for use in all probability in the autumn of 1629; and to occupy it
a new company of actors was organized, known as "The King's Revels." The chief members of this
company were George Stutville, John Young, William Cartwright, William Wilbraham, and Christopher
Goad; Gunnell and Blagrove probably acted as managers. In the books of the Lord Chamberlain
we find a warrant for the payment of £30 to William Blagrove "and the rest of his company"
for three plays acted by the Children of the Revels, at Whitehall, 1631.[632] The Children
continued at Salisbury Court until about December, 1631, when they abandoned the playhouse
in favor of the much larger Fortune, surrendered by the Palsgrave's Men.

[Footnote 632: See Mrs. Stopes's extracts from the Lord Chamberlain's books, in the Shakespeare
Jahrbuch (1910), XLVI, 97. This entry probably led Cunningham to say (The Shakespeare Society's
Papers, IV, 92) that Blagrove was "Master of the Children of the Revels in the reign of Charles
I."]

The Palsgrave's Men, who for many years had occupied the Fortune, seem to have fallen on bad
times and to have disbanded. They were reorganized, however, possibly by their old manager,
Richard Gunnell, and established in Salisbury Court. The Earl of Dorset, who took a special
interest in Salisbury Court, obtained for the troupe a patent to play under the name of the
infant Prince Charles, then little more than a year old.[633] The patent bears the date of
December 7, 1631; and "The Servants of the High and Mighty Prince Charles" opened at Salisbury
Court very soon after[634] with a play by Marmion entitled Holland's Leaguer. The Prologue
refers to the going of the King's Revels to the Fortune, and the coming of the new troupe to
Salisbury Court:

     Gentle spectators, that with graceful eye
     Come to behold the Muses' colony
     New planted in this soil, forsook of late
     By the inhabitants, since made Fortunate.

[Footnote 633: For Dorset's interest in the matter see Cunningham, The Shakespeare Society's
Papers, IV, 96.]

[Footnote 634: In December, 1631; see Malone, Variorum, III, 178.]

The Prologue closes thus:

     That on our branches now new poets sing;
     And when with joy he shall see this resort
     Phoebus shall not disdain to styl't his Court.

But the audiences at Salisbury Court were not large. For six performances of the play, says
Malone, Sir Henry Herbert received "but one pound nineteen shillings, in virtue of the ninth
share which he possessed as one of the proprietors of the house."[635]

[Footnote 635: Malone, Variorum, III, 178.]

Of the "new poets" referred to by the Prologue, one, of course, was Marmion himself. Another,
I venture to say, was James Shirley, who, as I think, had been engaged to write the company's
second play. This was The Changes, brought out at Salisbury Court on January 10. The Prologue
is full of allusions to the company, its recent misfortunes, and its present attempt to establish
itself in its new quarters:

     That Muse, whose song within another sphere[636]
     Hath pleased some, and of the best, whose ear
     Is able to distinguish strains that are
     Clear and Phoebean from the popular
     And sinful dregs of the adulterate brain,
     By me salutes your candour once again;
     And begs this noble favour, that this place,
     And weak performances, may not disgrace
     His fresh Thalia.[637] 'Las, our poet knows
     We have no name; a torrent overflows
     Our little island;[638] miserable we
     Do every day play our own Tragedy.
     But 't is more noble to create than kill,
     He says; and if but with his flame, your will
     Would join, we may obtain some warmth, and prove
     Next them that now do surfeit with your love.
     Encourage our beginning. Nothing grew
     Famous at first. And, gentlemen, if you
     Smile on this barren mountain, soon it will
     Become both fruitful and the Muses hill.

[Footnote 636: The Cockpit, for which Shirley had been writing.]

[Footnote 637: Cf. "new poets" of Marmion's Prologue.]

[Footnote 638: An allusion to the smallness of the Salisbury Court Playhouse?]

The similarity of this to the Prologue of Holland's Leaguer is striking; and the Epilogue is
written in the same vein:

                                   Opinion
     Comes hither but on crutches yet; the sun
     Hath lent no beam to warm us. If this play
     Proceed more fortunate, we shall bless the day
     And love that brought you hither. 'T is in you
     To make a little sprig of laurel grow,
     And spread into a grove.

All scholars who have written on the subject--Collier, Fleay, Greg, Murray, etc.--have contended
that the King's Revels Company did not leave Salisbury Court until after January 10, 1632,
because Herbert licensed Shirley's The Changes on that date,[639] and the title-page of the
only edition of The Changes states that it was acted at Salisbury Court by His Majesty's Revels.
But Herbert records payments for six representations of Marmion's Leaguer by Prince Charles's
Men at Salisbury Court "in December, 1631."[640] This latter date must be correct, for on January
26 Holland's Leaguer was entered on the Stationers' Register "as it hath been lately and often
acted with great applause ... at the private house in Salisbury Court." According to the generally
accepted theory, however, the King's Men were still at Salisbury Court, and actually bringing
out a new play there so late as January 10. This error has led to much confusion, and to no
little difficulty for historians of the stage; for example, Mr. Murray is forced to suppose
that two royal patents were granted to Prince Charles's Company.[641] It seems to me likely
that the title-page of The Changes is incorrect in stating that the play was acted by the King's
Revels. The play must have been acted by the new and as yet unpopular Prince Charles's Men,
who had occupied Salisbury Court as early as December, and, as Herbert tells us, with poor
success. The various dates cited clearly indicate this; and the Prologue and the Epilogue are
both wholly unsuited for utterance by the successful Revels Company which had just been "made
Fortunate," but are quite in keeping with the condition of the newly organized and struggling
Prince Charles's Men, who might naturally ask the public to "encourage our beginning."

[Footnote 639: Malone, Variorum, III, 232. But Malone was a careless transcriber, and Herbert
himself sometimes made errors. Possibly the correct date is January 10, 1631.]

[Footnote 640: Ibid., III, 178.]

[Footnote 641: English Dramatic Companies, I, 221.]

Whether Prince Charles's Men ultimately succeeded in winning the favor of the public we do
not know. Presumably they did, for at some date before 1635 they moved to the large Red Bull
Playhouse. Richard Heton wrote: "And whereas my Lord of Dorset had gotten for a former company
at Salisbury Court the Prince's service, they, being left at liberty, took their opportunity
of another house, and left the house in Salisbury Court destitute both of a service and company."[642]

[Footnote 642: Richard Heton, "Instructions for my Pattent," The Shakespeare Society's Papers,
IV, 96.]

This person, Richard Heton, who describes himself as "one of the Sewers of Her Majesty's Chamber
Extraordinary," had now obtained control of Salisbury Court, and had become manager of its
affairs.[643] He apparently induced the Company of His Majesty's Revels to leave the Fortune
and return to Salisbury Court, for in 1635 they acted there Richard Brome's The Sparagus Garden.
But their career at Salisbury Court was short; on May 12 of the following year all playhouses
were closed by the plague, and acting was not allowed again for nearly a year and a half. During
this long period of inactivity, the Company of His Majesty's Revels was largely dispersed.

[Footnote 643: We find a payment to Richard Heton, "for himself and the rest of the company
of the players at Salisbury Court," for performing a play before his Majesty at Court, October,
1635. (Chalmers's Apology, p. 509.) Exactly when he took charge of Salisbury Court I am unable
to learn.]

When at last, on October 2, 1637, the playhouses were allowed to open, Heton found himself
with a crippled troupe of actors. Again the Earl of Dorset interested himself in the theatre.
Queen Henrietta's Company, which had been at the Cockpit since 1625, having "disperst themselves,"
Dorset took "care to make up a new company for the Queen";[644] and he placed this new company
under Heton at Salisbury Court. Heton writes: "How much I have done for the upbuilding of this
Company, I gave you some particulars of in a petition to my Lord of Dorset." This reorganization
of the Queen's Men explains, perhaps, the puzzling entry in Herbert's Office-Book, October
2, 1637: "I disposed of Perkins, Sumner, Sherlock, and Turner, to Salisbury Court, and joyned
them with the best of that company."[645] Doubtless Herbert, like Dorset, was anxious for the
Queen to have a good troupe of players. This new organization of the Queen's Men continued
at Salisbury Court without interruption, it seems, until the closing of the playhouses in 1642.[646]

[Footnote 644: Cunningham, The Shakespeare Society's Papers, IV, 96.]

[Footnote 645: Malone, Variorum, III, 240.]

[Footnote 646: For certain troubles at Salisbury Court in 1644 and 1648, see Collier, The History
of English Dramatic Poetry (1879), II, 37, 40, 47.]

In 1649 John Herne, son of the John Herne who in 1629 had secured a lease on the property for
sixty-one years, made out a deed of sale of the playhouse to William Beeston,[647] for the
sum of £600. But the document was not signed. In 1639 William had been appointed manager of
the Cockpit Company. (See pages 358 ff.)]

[Footnote 648: That is, stripped of its benches, stage-hangings, and other appliances for dramatic
performances.]

[Footnote 649: The manuscript entry in Stow's Annals. See The Academy, October 28, 1882, p.
314. On the same date the soldiers "pulled down on the inside" also the Phoenix and the Fortune.]

Three years later, however, Beeston, through his agent Theophilus Bird, secured the property
from Herne at the reduced price of £408: "John Herne, by indenture dated the five and twentieth
day of May, 1652, for £408, to him paid by Theophilus Bird, did assign the premises and all
his estate therein in trust for the said William Beeston."[650]

[Footnote 650: Cunningham, The Shakespeare Society's Papers, IV, 103.]

Early in 1660 Beeston, anticipating the return of King Charles, and the reëstablishment of
the drama, decided to put his building back into condition to serve as a playhouse; and he
secured from Herbert, the Master of the Revels, a license to do so.[651] On April 5, 1660,
he contracted with two carpenters, Fisher and Silver, "for the rebuilding the premises"; and
to secure them he mortgaged the property. The carpenters later swore that they "expended in
the same work £329 9s. 4d."[652]

[Footnote 651: Printed in Malone, Variorum, III, 243, and Halliwell-Phillipps, A Collection
of Ancient Documents, p. 85. The language clearly indicates that Beeston was to reconvert the
building into a theatre.]

[Footnote 652: Cunningham, The Shakespeare Society's Papers, IV, 103.]

The reconstructed playhouse was opened in 1660, probably as early as June, with a performance
of The Rump, by Tatham. It was engaged by Sir William Davenant for his company of actors until
his "new theatre with scenes" could be erected in Lincoln's Inn Fields.[653] The ubiquitous
Pepys often went thither, and in his Diary gives us some interesting accounts of the performances
he saw there.

[Footnote 654: By Philip Massinger.]

The history of the playhouse during these years falls outside the scope of this volume. Suffice
it to say that before Beeston finished paying the carpenters for their work of reconstruction,
the great fire of 1666 swept the building out of existence; as Fisher and Silver declared:
"The mortgaged premises by the late dreadful fire in London were totally burned down and consumed."[655]

[Footnote 655: The subsequent history of Salisbury Court is traced in the legal documents printed
by Cunningham. Beeston lost the property, and Fisher and Silver erected nearer the river a
handsome new playhouse, known as "The Duke's Theatre," at an estimated cost of £1000.]

CHAPTER XX

THE COCKPIT-IN-COURT, OR THEATRE ROYAL AT WHITEHALL

On birthdays, holidays, and festive occasions in general the sovereigns of England and the
members of the royal family were wont to summon the professional actors to present plays at
Court. For the accommodation of the players and of the audience, the larger halls at Hampton,
Windsor, Greenwich, St. James, Whitehall, or wherever the sovereign happened to be at the time,
were specially fitted up, often at great expense. At one end of the hall was erected a temporary
stage equipped with a "music-room," "players' houses of canvas," painted properties, and such
other things as were necessary to the actors. In the centre of the hall, on an elevated dais,
were provided seats for the royal family, and around and behind the dais, stools for the more
distinguished guests; a large part of the audience was allowed to stand on platforms raised
in tiers at the rear of the room. Since the plays were almost invariably given at night, the
stage was illuminated by special "branches" hung on wires overhead, and carrying many lights.
In the accounts of the Office of the Revels one may find interesting records of plays presented
in this manner, with the miscellaneous items of expense for making the halls ready.

Usually the Court performances, like the masques, were important, almost official occasions,
and many guests, including the members of the diplomatic corps, were invited. To provide accommodation
for so numerous an audience, a large room was needed. Hampton Court possessed a splendid room
for the purpose in the Great Banqueting Hall, one hundred and six feet in length and forty
feet in breadth. But the palace at Whitehall for many years had no room of a similar character.
For the performance of a masque there in 1559 the Queen erected a temporary "Banqueting House."
Again, in 1572, to entertain the Duke of Montmorency, Ambassador from France, she had a large
"Banketting House made at Whitehall," covered with canvas and decorated with ivy and flowers
gathered fresh from the fields. An account of the structure may be found in the records of
the Office of the Revels. Perhaps, however, the most elaborate and substantial of these "banqueting
houses" was that erected in 1581, to entertain the ambassadors from France who came to treat
of a marriage between Elizabeth and the Duc d'Anjou. The structure is thus described by Holinshed
in his Chronicle:[656]

     This year (against the coming of certain commissioners out
     of France into England), by Her Majesty's appointment, on
     the sixth and twentieth day of March, in the morning (being
     Easter Day), a Banqueting House was begun at Westminster, on
     the south-west side of Her Majesty's palace of Whitehall,
     made in manner and form of a long square, three hundred
     thirty and two foot in measure about; thirty principals made
     of great masts, being forty foot in length apiece, standing
     upright; between every one of these masts ten foot asunder
     and more. The walls of this house were closed with canvas,
     and painted all the outsides of the same most artificially,
     with a work called rustic, much like stone. This house had
     two hundred ninety and two lights of glass. The sides within
     the same house was made with ten heights of degrees for
     people to stand upon; and in the top of this house was
     wrought most cunningly upon canvas works of ivy and holly,
     with pendants made of wicker rods, garnished with bay, rue,
     and all manner of strange flowers garnished with spangles of
     gold; as also beautified with hanging toseans made of holly
     and ivy, with all manner of strange fruits, as pomegranates,
     oranges, pompions, cucumbers, grapes, carrots, with such
     other like, spangled with gold, and most richly hanged.
     Betwixt these works of bays and ivy were great spaces of
     canvas, which was most cunningly painted, the clouds with
     stars, the sun and sun-beams, with diverse other coats of
     sundry sorts belonging to the Queen's Majesty, most richly
     garnished with gold. There were of all manner of persons
     working on this house to the number of three hundred seventy
     and five: two men had mischances, the one broke his leg, and
     so did the other. This house was made in three weeks and
     three days, and was ended the eighteenth day of April, and
     cost one thousand seven hundred forty and four pounds,
     nineteen shillings, and od mony, as I was credibly informed
     by the worshipful master Thomas Grave, surveyor unto Her
     Majesty's works, who served and gave order for the same.

[Footnote 656: Edition of 1808, IV, 434. See also Stow's Chronicle, under the year 1581.]

Although built in such a short time, and of such flimsy material, this expensive Banqueting
House seems to have been allowed to stand, and to have been used thereafter for masques and
plays. Thus, when King James came to the throne, he ordered plays to be given there in November,
1604. We find the following entry in the Treasurer's accounts:

     For making ready the Banqueting House at Whitehall for the
     King's Majesty against the plays, by the space of four days
     ... 78s. 7d.

And the accounts of the Revels' Office inform us:

     Hallomas Day, being the first of November, a play in the
     Banqueting House at Whitehall, called The Moor of Venice.

Apparently, however, the King was not pleased with the Banqueting House as a place for dramatic
performances, for he promptly ordered the Great Hall of the palace--a room approximately ninety
feet in length and forty feet in breadth[657]--to be made ready for the next play:

     For making ready the Great Chamber at Whitehall for the
     King's Majesty to see the play, by the space of two days ...
     39s. 4d.

[Footnote 657: This had once already, on Shrove Tuesday, 1604, been used for a play. The situation
and ground-plan of the "Great Hall" are clearly shown in Fisher's Survey of the palace, made
about 1670, and engraved by Vertue, 1747.]

The work was completed with dispatch, for on the Sunday following the performance of Othello
in the Banqueting House, The Merry Wives of Windsor was acted in the Great Hall. The next play
to be given at Court was also presented in the same room:

     On St. Stephen's Night, in the Hall, a play called Measure
     for Measure.

And from this time on the Great Hall was the usual place for Court performances. The abandonment
of the Banqueting House was probably due to the facts that the Hall was smaller in size, could
be more easily heated in the winter, and was in general better adapted to dramatic performances.
Possibly the change was due also to the decayed condition of the old structure and to preparations
for its removal. Stow, in his Annals under the date of 1607, writes:

     The last year the King pulled down the old, rotten,
     slight-builded Banqueting House at Whitehall, and
     new-builded the same this year very strong and stately,
     being every way larger than the first.[658]

[Footnote 658: Stow's Annals, continued by Edmund Howes (1631), p. 891.]

This new Banqueting House was completed in the early part of 1608. John Chamberlain writes
to Sir Dudley Carleton on January 5, 1608: "The masque goes forward at Court for Twelfth Day,
tho' I doubt the New Room will be scant ready."[659] Thereafter the Banqueting House, "every
way larger than the first," was regularly used for the presentation of masques. But it was
rarely if ever used for plays. Throughout the reign of James, the ordinary place for dramatic
performances, as has been observed, was the Great Hall.

[Footnote 659: John Nichols, The Progresses of James, II, 162.]

On January 12, 1619, as a result of negligence during the preparations for a masque, the Banqueting
House caught fire and was burned to the ground. The Reverend Thomas Lorkin writes to Sir Thomas
Puckering on January 19, 1619:

     The unhappy accident that chanced at Whitehall last week by
     fire you cannot but have heard of; but haply not the manner
     how, which was this. A joiner was appointed to mend some
     things that were out of order in the device of the masque,
     which the King meant to have repeated at Shrovetide, who,
     having kindled a fire upon a false hearth to heat his
     glue-pot, the force thereof pierced soon, it seems, the
     single brick, and in a short time that he absented himself
     upon some occasion, fastened upon the basis, which was of
     dry deal board, underneath; which suddenly conceiving flame,
     gave fire to the device of the masque, all of oiled paper,
     and dry fir, etc. And so, in a moment, disposed itself among
     the rest of that combustible matter that it was past any
     man's approach before it was almost discovered. Two hours
     begun and ended that woful sight.

Inigo Jones, who had dreamed of a magnificent palace at Whitehall, and who had drawn elaborate
plans for a royal residence which should surpass anything in Europe, now took charge of building
a new Banqueting House as a first step in the realization of his scheme. The noble structure
which he erected is to-day one of his chief monuments, and the sole relic of the once famous
royal palace. It was completed in the spring of 1622; but, as in the case of its predecessor,
it was not commonly used for dramatic entertainments. Though masques might be given there,
the regular place for plays continued to be the Great Hall.

In the meanwhile, however, there had been developed at Court the custom of having small private
performances in the Cockpit, in addition to the more elaborate performances in the Great Hall.
Since this ultimately led to the establishment of a theatre royal, known as "The Cockpit-in-Court,"
it will be necessary to trace in some detail the history of that structure.

The palace of Whitehall, anciently called York House, and the home of thirty successive Archbishops
of York, was seized by King Henry VIII at the fall of Wolsey and converted into a royal residence.[660]
The new proprietor at once made improvements after his own taste, among which were tennis-courts,
bowling-alleys, and an amphitheatre for the "royal sport" of cock-fighting. In Stow's description
of the palace we read:

     On the right hand be diverse fair tennis courts, bowling
     alleys, and a Cockpit, all built by King Henry the Eight.

[Footnote 660: Shakespeare writes (Henry VIII, IV, i, 94-97):

                          Sir you
     Must no more call it York-place, that is past;
     For since the Cardinal fell, that title's lost:
     'Tis now the King's, and called Whitehall.]

Strype, in his edition of Stow's Survey (1720), adds the information that the Cockpit was made
"out of certain old tenements."[661] It is pictured in Agas's Map of London (1570), and more
clearly in Faithorne's Map (see page 390), printed in 1658, but apparently representing the
city at an earlier date.

[Footnote 661: Book VI, page 6.]

During the reign of Elizabeth the Cockpit, so far as I can ascertain, was never used for plays.
In the voluminous documents relating to the Office of the Revels there is only one reference
to the building: in 1572 flowers were temporarily stored there that were to be used for decking
the "Banketting House."

It was during the reign of King James that the Cockpit began to be used for dramatic representations.
John Chamberlain writes from London to Sir Ralph Winwood, December 18, 1604: "Here is great
provision for Cockpit to entertain him [the King] at home, and of masques and revels against
the marriage of Sir Herbert and Lady Susan Vere."[662] Since, however, King James was very
fond of cock-fighting, it may be that Chamberlain was referring to that royal entertainment
rather than to plays. The small Cockpit was certainly a very unusual place for the formal presentation
of plays before His Majesty and the Court.

[Footnote 662: Winwood State Papers (1725), II, 41.]

But the young Prince Henry, whose official residence was in St. James's Palace, often had private
or semi-private performances of plays in the Cockpit. In the rolls of the expenses of the Prince
we find the following records:[663]

     For making ready the Cockpit four several times for plays,
     by the space of four days, in the month of December, 1610,
     £2 10s. 8d.

     For making ready the Cockpit for plays two several times, by
     the space of four days, in the months of January and
     February, 1611, 70s. 8d.

     For making ready the Cockpit for a play, by the space of two
     days, in the month of December, 1611, 30s. 4d.

[Footnote 663: See Cunningham, Extracts from the Accounts of the Revels, pp. xiii-xiv.]

The building obviously, was devoted for the most part to other purposes, and had to be "made
ready" for plays at a considerable expense. Nor was the Prince the only one who took advantage
of its small amphitheatre. John Chamberlain, in a letter to Sir Dudley Carleton on September
22, 1612, describing the reception accorded to the Count Palatine by the Lady Elizabeth, writes:
"On Tuesday she sent to invite him as he sat at supper to a play of her own servants in the
Cockpit."[664]

[Footnote 664: John Nichols, The Progresses of James, II, 466.]

It is clear, then, that at times throughout the reign of James dramatic performances were given
in the Cockpit; but the auditorium was small, and the performances must have been of a semi-private
nature. The important Court performances, to which many guests were invited, were held in the
Great Hall.

In the reign of the next sovereign, however, a change came about. In the year 1632 or 1633,
as well as I am able to judge with the evidence at command, King Charles reconstructed the
old Cockpit into a "new theatre at Whitehall," which from henceforth was almost exclusively
used for Court performances. The opening of this "new theatre royal" is celebrated by a Speech
from the pen of Thomas Heywood:

     A Speech Spoken to Their Two Excellent Majesties at the
     First Play Play'd by the Queen's Servants in the New Theatre
     at Whitehall.

     When Greece, the chief priority might claim
     For arts and arms, and held the eminent name
     Of Monarchy, they erected divers places,
     Some to the Muses, others to the Graces,
     Where actors strove, and poets did devise,
     With tongue and pen to please the ears and eyes
     Of Princely auditors. The time was, when
     To hear the rapture of one poet's pen
     A Theatre hath been built.

     By the Fates' doom,
     When th' Empire was removed from thence to Rome,
     The Potent Cæsars had their circi, and
     Large amphitheatres, in which might stand
     And sit full fourscore thousand, all in view
     And touch of voice. This great Augustus knew,
     Nay Rome its wealth and potency enjoyed,
     Till by the barbarous Goths these were destroy'd.

     But may this structure last, and you be seen
     Here a spectator, with your princely Queen,
     In your old age, as in your flourishing prime,
     To outstrip Augustus both in fame and time.

The exact date of this Speech is not given, but it was printed[665] in 1637 along with "The
Prologue to the Famous Tragedy of The Rich Jew of Malta, as it Was Played Before the King and
Queen in His Majesty's Theatre at Whitehall"; and this Prologue Heywood had already published
with the play itself in 1633. He dedicated the play to Mr. Thomas Hammon, saying, "I had no
better a New-Year's gift to present you with." Apparently, then, the play had been acted at
Court shortly before New Year's, 1633; and this sets a forward date to Heywood's Speech. Other
evidence combines with this to show that "His Majesty's Theatre at Whitehall" was "new" at
the Christmas season of 1632-33.

[Footnote 665: See The Dramatic Works of Thomas Heywood (1874), VI, 339.]

In erecting this, the first "theatre royal," King Charles would naturally call for the aid
of the great Court architect Inigo Jones,[666] and by good luck we have preserved for us Jones's
original sketches for the little playhouse (see page 396). These were discovered a few years
ago by Mr. Hamilton Bell in the Library of Worcester College (where many valuable relics of
the great architect are stored), and printed in The Architectural Record of New York, March,
1913. Mr. Bell accompanied the plans with a valuable discussion, but he was unable to discover
their purpose. He writes:

     We have still no clue as to what purpose this curiously
     anomalous and most interesting structure was to
     serve--whether the plan was ever carried out, or whether it
     remained part of a lordly pleasure-house which its prolific
     designer planned for the delectation of his own soul.

[Footnote 666: Whether he merely made over the old Cockpit which Henry VIII had constructed
"out of certain old tenements," or erected an entirely new building, I have not been able to
ascertain. Heywood's Speech indicates a "new" and "lasting" structure.]

That the plan actually was carried out, at least in part, is shown by a sketch of the Whitehall
buildings made by John Fisher at some date before 1670, and engraved by Vertue in 1747, (see
page 398).[667] Here, in the northeast corner of the palace, we find a little theatre, labeled
"The Cockpit." Its identity with the building sketched by Inigo Jones is obvious at a glance;
even the exterior measurements, which are ascertainable from the scales of feet given on the
two plans, are the same.

[Footnote 667: Vertue conservatively dates the survey "about 1680"; but the names of the occupants
of the various parts of the palace show that it was drawn before 1670, and nearer 1660 than 1680.]

Mr. Bell describes the plan he discovered as follows:[668]

     It represents within a square building, windowed on three
     sides and on one seemingly attached to another building, an
     auditorium occupying five sides of an octagon, on the floor
     of which are shown the benches of a pit, or the steps, five
     in number, on which they could be set. These are curiously
     arranged at an angle of forty-five degrees on either side of
     a central aisle, so that the spectators occupying them
     could never have directly faced the stage. Surrounding this
     pit on five sides is a balcony ten feet deep, with, it would
     seem, two rows of benches on four of its sides; the fifth
     side in the centre, directly opposite the stage, being
     partitioned off into a room or box, in the middle of which
     is indicated a platform about five feet by seven, presumably
     for the Royal State. Three steps descend from this box to
     the centre aisle of the pit. To the left of and behind this
     royal box appears another enclosure or box, partitioned off
     from the rest of the balcony.

     The staircases of access to this auditorium are clearly
     indicated; one small door at the rear of the salle with
     its own private stairway, communicating with the adjoining
     building, opens directly into the royal box; as in the Royal
     Opera House in Berlin to-day.

     There is another door, with a triangular lobby, into the
     rear of the left-hand balcony. Two windows are shown on each
     side of the house, opening directly into the theatre from
     the outer air.

     The stage runs clear across the width of the pit, about
     thirty-five feet, projecting in an "apron" or avant scène
     five feet beyond the proscenium wall, and is surrounded on
     the three outward sides by a low railing of classic design
     about eighteen inches in height, just as in many Elizabethan
     playhouses.

     If one may trust an elevation of the stage, drawn on the
     same sheet to twice the scale of the general plan, the stage
     was four feet six inches above the floor of the pit. This
     elevation exhibits the surprising feature of a classic
     façade, Palladian in treatment, on the stage of what so far
     we have regarded as a late modification of a playhouse of
     Shakespeare's day. Evidently Inigo Jones contemplated the
     erection of a permanent architectural proscenium, as the
     ancients called it, of the type, though far more modest,
     both in scale and ornamentation, of Palladio's Theatro
     Olimpico at Vicenza, which we know he visited in about 1600,
     some twenty years after its erection. This proscenium,
     given in plan and elevation, shows a semi-circular structure
     with a radius of fifteen feet, two stories in height, of the
     Corinthian or Composite order. In the lower story are five
     doorways, the centre of which is a large archway flanked by
     pedestals, on which are inscribed in Greek characters,
     Melpomene--Thalia; over these and over the smaller doors are
     tablets.

     The second story contains between its lighter engaged
     columns, over the four side doors, niches with corbels
     below, destined to carry statues as their inscribed bases
     indicate. So far as these inscriptions are legible,--the
     clearest reading "phocles," probably Sophocles,--these were
     to represent Greek dramatists, most likely Æschylus,
     Euripides, Sophocles and Aristophanes.

     The curved pediment of the central archway runs up into this
     story and is broken in the middle by a tablet bearing the
     inscription "Prodesse et Delectare," which is flanked by two
     reclining genii holding garlands.

     Above these are two busts on brackets, Thespis and Epicurus,
     or possibly Epicharmus. The space directly above this
     pediment is occupied by a window-like opening five by four
     feet, the traditional Elizabethan music-room, in all
     probability, which, Mr. W.J. Lawrence has shown us, occupied
     this position both in Shakespeare's day and for some time
     after the Restoration; an arrangement which was revived by
     Mr. Steele Mackaye in the Madison Square Theatre, and
     originally in the first little Lyceum, New York, both now
     pulled down. The pyramidal pediment above this opening
     projects above the upper cornice into a coved ceiling, which
     would appear from the rendering of the drawing to form an
     apse above the semi-circular stage. Behind the proscenium
     is a large space with staircases of approach, two windows at
     the rear, and apparently a fireplace for the comfort of the
     waiting players. Communication with the front of the house
     is provided by a door in the proscenium wall opening into
     the stage door lobby, whence the outside of the building may
     be reached.

     There is no indication of galleries, unless some marks on
     the angles of the front wall of the balcony may be
     interpreted without too much license into the footings of
     piers or posts to carry one; the total interior height shown
     in the elevation from what I have assumed to be the floor of
     the pit to the ceiling being only twenty-eight feet, there
     would hardly have been room for more than one. The only
     staircases which could have served it are at the rear of the
     building in the corners behind the stage wall....

     The general dimensions would appear to be:

     Total width of the auditorium                   58 ft.
     Total width of the pit                          36 ft.
     Total width of the front stage or "apron"       35 ft.
     Total depth of the stage from the railing to
       the centre of the proscenium                16 ft.
         The entire building is 58 feet square inside, cut to
         an octagon of 28 feet each side.
     Height from floor to ceiling                    28 ft.
     Height from stage to ceiling              about 23 ft. 6 in.
     The lower order of the proscenium             10 ft. 6 in.
     The upper order of the proscenium              9 ft. 6 in.

     The scale on the drawing may not be absolutely correct, as
     measured by it the side doors of the proscenium are only
     five feet high and two feet nine inches wide: this, however,
     may be an error in the drawing, since we have it on very
     good authority that Inigo Jones designed without the use of
     a scale, proportioning his various members by his
     exquisitely critical eye alone, subsequently adding the
     dimensions in writing.

[Footnote 668: Reprinted here by the kind permission of Mr. Bell and the editors of The Architectural
Record.]

I record below some of the references to the Cockpit which I have gathered from the Herbert
Manuscript and the Office-Books of the Lord Chamberlain. The earliest payment for plays there,
it will be observed, is dated March 16, 1633. Abundant evidence shows that the actors gave
their performance in the Cockpit at night without interfering with their regular afternoon
performance at their playhouses, and for their pains received the sum of £10. If, however,
for any reason they "lost their day" at their house they were paid £20.

     1633. March 16. Warrant to pay £270 to John Lowen, Joseph
     Taylor, and Eilliard Swanston, His Majesty's Comedians, for
     plays by them acted before His Majesty, viz.--£20 for the
     rehearsal of one at the Cockpit, by which means they lost
     their afternoon at their house....[669]

     1634. Bussy d'Amboise was played by the King's Players on
     Easter-Monday night, at the Cockpit-in-Court.[670]

     1634. The Pastorall was played by the King's Players on
     Easter-Tuesday night, at the Cockpit-in-Court.[671]

     1635. 10 May. A warrant for £30 unto Mons. Josias Floridor,
     for himself and the rest of the French players for three
     plays acted by them at the Cockpit.[672]

     1635. 10 Decemr.--A warrant for £100 to the Prince's
     Comedians,--viz. £60 for three plays acted at Hampton Court,
     at £20 for each play, in September and October, 1634. And
     £40 for four plays at Whitehall and [query "at"] the
     Cockpit in January, February, and May following, at £10 for
     each play.[673]

     1636. The first and second part of Arviragus and Philicia
     were acted at the Cockpit before the King and Queen, the
     Prince, and Prince Elector, the 18 and 19 April, 1636, being
     Monday and Tuesday in Easter week.[674]

[Footnote 669: Lord Chamberlain's Office-Book, C.C. Stopes, "Shakespeare's Fellows and Followers,"
Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XLVI, 96.]

[Footnote 670: Herbert MS., Malone, Variorum, III, 237.]

[Footnote 671: Herbert MS., Malone, Variorum, III, 237.]

[Footnote 672: Lord Chamberlain's Office-Book, Chalmers's Apology, p. 508.]

[Footnote 673: Ibid., p. 509.]

[Footnote 674: The Herbert MS., Malone, Variorum, III, 238.]

Other similar allusions to performance in the Cockpit might be cited from the Court records.
One more will suffice--the most interesting of all, since it shows how frequently the little
theatre was employed for the entertainment of the royal family. It is a bill presented by the
Blackfriars Company, the King's Men, for Court performances during the year 1637. This bill
was discovered and reproduced in facsimile by George R. Wright, F.S.A., in The Journal of the
British Archæological Association for 1860; but it was wholly misunderstood by its discoverer,
who regarded it as drawn up by the company of players that "performed at the Cockpit in Drury
Lane." He was indeed somewhat puzzled by the reference to the Blackfriars Playhouse, but met
the difficulty by saying: "There can be little doubt that the last-named theatre was lent for
the occasion to the Cockpit Company," although he suggests no reason for this strange borrowing
of a theatre by a troupe that possessed a house of its own, and much nearer the Court, too.
It did not even occur to him, it seems, to inquire how the Cockpit Company secured the plays
which we know belonged to Shakespeare's old company. Because of these obvious difficulties
scholars have looked upon the document with suspicion, and apparently have treated it as a
forgery.[675] But that it is genuine is indicated by the history of "The Cockpit-in-Court"
as sketched above, and is proved beyond any question by the fact that the Office-Book of the
Lord Chamberlain shows that the bill was paid:

     12th March 1638 {9}.--Forasmuch as His Majesty's Servants,
     the company at the Blackfriars, have by special command, at
     divers times within the space of this present year 1638,
     acted 24 plays before His Majesty, six whereof have been
     performed at Hampton-court and Richmond, by means whereof
     they were not only at the loss of their day at home, but at
     extraordinary charges by traveling and carriage of their
     goods, in consideration whereof they are to have £20 apiece
     for those plays, and £10 apiece for the other 18 acted at
     Whitehall, which in the whole amounted to the sum of
     £300.--These are therefore to pray and require you out of
     His Majesty's treasure in your charge to pay....[676]

[Footnote 675: Fleay in his elaborate studies of performances at Court ignores it entirely,
as do subsequent scholars.]

[Footnote 676: Chalmers, Apology, p. 510.]

A photographic facsimile of this interesting document may be seen in The Journal of the British
Archæological Association, already referred to; but for the convenience of those who do not
read Elizabethan script with ease, I have reproduced it in type facsimile on page 404.

At the Cocpit the 29th of may the princes berthnight                        ould Castel

At the Cocpit the last of may agayne the      vnfortunate louers

At Sumerset-house the 10th of July & our day

-- lost at our house mr Carlels play the first part of the pasionate louers

-- At Hamton Court the 30th of September      The vnfortunate louer[s]

-- At Richmount the 6th of november for the ladie }  The mery divell
   maries berthnight & the day lost at our house  }  of Edmonto[n]

At the Cocpit the 8th of november             The fox

At the Cocpit the 13th of november            Ceaser

At the Cocpit the 15th of november            The mery wifes of winser

At the Cocpit the 20th of november            The fayre favorett

At the Cocpit the 22th of november            Chances

At the Cocpit the 27th of november            The Costome of the C[ountry]

At the Cocpit the 29th of november            The northen las

At the Cocpit the 6th of desember             The spanish Curatt

At the Cocpit the 11th of desember agayne     The fayre favorett

At the Cocpit the 18th of desember m Carlels play agayne the first part of                
The pasionate louers

At the Cocpit the 20th of desember the 2d part of                                The pasionate
louers

At the Cocpit the 27 of desember the 2d part agayne of the pasionate louers

-- At Richmount the 28 of desember the ladie        }
   Elsabeths berthnight & our day lost at our house }  The northen las

-- At Richmount on newyeares day }
   and our day lost at our house }  beggers bush

-- At Richmount the 7th of Janeuarye }
   and our day lost at our house     }  The spanish Cura[tt]]

The check-marks at the left were probably made by the clerk in the Chamberlain's office to
ascertain how many times the players "lost their day" at their house, and hence were entitled
to £20 in payment. For the play given "at the blackfriars the 23 of Aprill for the queene"
(presumably the general public was excluded) only the usual £10 was allowed.

With the approach of the civil war, the Cockpit, like the public theatres, suffered an eclipse.
Sir Henry Herbert writes: "On Twelfth Night, 1642, the Prince had a play called The Scornful
Lady at the Cockpit; but the King and Queen were not there, and it was the only play acted
at court in the whole Christmas."[677] During the dark days that followed we hear nothing of
plays in the Cockpit. Later Cromwell himself occupied this section of the palace, and naturally
saw to it that no dramatic exhibitions were held there. But at the Restoration "the Prince,"
now become the King, could have his plays again; and he did not wait long. On November 20,
1660, Edward Gower wrote to Sir Richard Leveson: "Yesternight the King, Queen, Princess, etc.,
supped at the Duke d'Albemarle's, where they had The Silent Woman acted in the Cockpit."[678]
From this time on the theatre royal was in constant use for the entertainment of the Court.

[Footnote 677: Herbert MS., Malone, Variorum, III, 241.]

[Footnote 678: Historical Manuscripts Commission, Fifth Report, p. 200. Pepys, under the date
November 20, 1660, gives an anecdote about the King's behavior on this occasion.]

Samuel Pepys, as he rose in the world, became a frequent visitor there.[679] In the absence
of other descriptions of the building, I subjoin a few of the entries from his Diary.

[Footnote 679: He first "got in" on April 20, 1661, "by the favour of one Mr. Bowman." John
Evelyn also visited the Cockpit; see his Diary, January 16 and February 11, 1662.]

[Footnote 680: By James Shirley, licensed 1641.]

The next time he went to the Cockpit, on November 17, 1662, he did not have to creep in by
stealth. They had done by eleven o'clock.

The fine ladies, as usual, made a deep impression on him, as did the "greatness and gallantry"
of the audience.

[Footnote 681: By Corneille.]

[Footnote 682: Mrs. Betterton.]

Two entries, from an entirely different source, must suffice for this history of the Cockpit.
In the Paper-Office Chalmers discovered a record of the following payments, made in 1667:

     To the Keeper of the theatre at Whitehall, £30. To the same
     for Keeping clean that place, p. ann. £6.[683]

[Footnote 683: Chalmers, Apology, p. 530. Cunningham says, in his Handbook of London: "I find
in the records of the Audit Office a payment of £30 per annum 'to the Keeper of our Playhouse
called the Cockpit in St. James Park'"; but he does not state the year in which the payment
was made.]

And in the Lord Chamberlain's Accounts is preserved the following warrant:

     1674, March 27. Warrant to deliver to Monsieur Grabu, or to
     such as he shall appoint, such of the scenes remaining in
     the theatre at Whitehall as shall be useful for the French
     Opera at the theatre in Bridges Street, and the said
     Monsieur to return them again safely after 14 days' time to
     the theatre at Whitehall.[684]

[Footnote 684: I quote from W.J. Lawrence, The Elizabethan Playhouse (First Series), p. 144.]

What became of the theatre at Whitehall I have not been able to ascertain.[685] Presumably,
after the fire of January, 1698, which destroyed the greater part of the palace and drove the
royal family to seek quarters elsewhere, the building along with the rest of the Cockpit section
was made over into the Privy Council offices.

[Footnote 685: The reasons why the Cockpit at Whitehall has remained so long in obscurity (its
history is here attempted for the first time) are obvious. Some scholars have confused it with
the public playhouse of the same name, a confusion which persons in the days of Charles avoided
by invariably saying "The Cockpit in Drury Lane." Other scholars have confused it with the
residential section of Whitehall which bore the same name. During the reign of James several
large buildings which had been erected either on the site of the old cockpit of Henry VIII,
or around it, were converted into lodgings for members of the royal family or favorites of
the King, and were commonly referred to as "the Cockpit." Other scholars have assumed that
all plays during the reigns of Elizabeth, James, and Charles were given either in the Banqueting
House or in the Great Hall. Finally, still other scholars (e.g., Sir Sidney Lee, in Shakespeare's
England, 1916) have confused the Cockpit at Whitehall with the Royal Cockpit in St. James's
Park. Exactly when the latter was built I have not been able to discover, but it was probably
erected near the close of the seventeenth century. It stood at the end of Dartmouth Street,
adjacent to Birdcage Walk, but not in the Park itself. John Strype, in his edition of Stow's
Survey (1720), bk. VI, p. 64, says of Dartmouth Street: "And here is a very fine Cockpit, called
the King's Cockpit, well resorted unto." A picture of the building is given by Strype on page
62, and a still better picture may be found in J.T. Smith's The Antiquities of Westminster.
The Royal Cockpit in Dartmouth Street survived until 1816, when it was torn down. Hogarth,
in his famous representation of a cock-fight, shows its interior as circular, and as embellished
with the royal coat of arms. Another interesting picture of the interior will be found in Ackermann's
The Microcosm of London (1808). It is needless to add that this building had nothing whatever
to do with the theatre royal of the days of King Charles.]

CHAPTER XXI

MISCELLANEOUS

I

WOLF'S THEATRE IN NIGHTINGALE LANE, NEAR EAST SMITHFIELD

In Jeaffreson's Middlesex County Records (I, 260), we find the following entry, dated April
1, 1600:

     1 April, 42 Elizabeth.--Recognizance, taken before Sir John
     Peyton knt., Lieutenant of the Tower of London, and Thomas
     Fowler, Tobias Woode, Edward Vaghan and Henry Thoresby
     esqs., Justices of the Peace, of John Wolf, of
     Eastsmithfield, co. Midd., stationer, in the sum of forty
     pounds; The condition of the recognizance being "that,
     whereas the above-bounden John Wolf hath begun to erect and
     build a playhouse in Nightingale Lane near East Smithfield
     aforesaid, contrary to Her Majesty's proclamation and orders
     set down in Her Highness's Court of Starchamber. If
     therefore the said John Wolf do not proceed any further in
     building or erecting of the same playhouse, unless he shall
     procure sufficient warrant from the Rt. Honourable the Lords
     of Her Majesty's most honourable Privy Council for further
     ... then this recognizance to be void, or else to remain in
     full force."

The only stationer in London named John Wolf was the printer and publisher who at this time
had his shop in Pope's Head Alley, Lombard Street. For several reasons he is well known to
bibliographers; and his strong personality and tireless energy might easily have led him into
the field of the theatre. For many years he was a member of the Fishmongers' Company, to which
also, in all probability, his father had belonged. After a ten years' apprenticeship with the
eminent printer, John Day, he spent several years abroad "gadding from country to country,"
but learning the printing trade from the best establishments on the Continent. His longest
stay was in Italy, where he was connected with the printing-office of the Giunti, and also,
it seems, of Gabriel Giolito. In 1576 he printed two Rappresentazioni, "ad instanzia di Giovanni
Vuolfio, Inglese." About the year 1579 he established himself in London (where he was dubbed
by his fellows "Machiavel"), and began an energetic warfare on the monopolies secured by certain
favored printers. The fact that he was for a time "committed to the Clink" failed to deter
him. We are told that he "affirmed openly in the Stationers' Hall that it was lawful for all
men to print all lawful books, what commandment soever Her Majesty gave to the contrary." And
being "admonished that he, being but one, so mean a man, should not presume to contrary Her
Highness' government: 'Tush,' said he, 'Luther was but one man, and reformed all the world
for religion, and I am that one man that must and will reform the government in this trade.'"
The courage and energy here revealed characterized his entire life. In 1583 he was admitted
a freeman of the Company of Stationers. In 1593 he was elected Printer to the City. In the
spring of 1600 he was in serious difficulties with the authorities over the printing of John
Hayward's Life and Raigne of King Henrie IV, and was forced to spend two weeks in jail. He
died in 1601.[686]

[Footnote 686: For the life of John Wolf see the following: Edward Arber, A Transcript of the
Stationers' Registers, especially II, 779-93; The Calendar of State Papers, Domestic, 1598-1601,
pp. 405, 449, 450; A. Gerber, All of the Five Fictitious Italian Editions, etc. (in Modern
Language Notes, XXII (1907), 2, 129, 201); H.R. Plomer, An Examination of Some Existing Copies
of Hayward's "Life and Raigne of King Henrie IV" (in The Library, N.S., III (1902), 13); R.B.
McKerrow, A Dictionary of Printers and Booksellers ... 1557-1640; S. Bongi, Annali di Gabriel
Giolito de' Ferrari.]

If this "John Wolf, stationer," be the man who started to erect a playhouse in East Smithfield,
it is to be regretted that we do not know more about the causes which led him into the undertaking.

II

THE PROJECTED "AMPHITHEATRE"

In 1620 John Cotton, John Williams, and Thomas Dixon[687] secured from King James a license
to build an amphitheatre[688] "intended principally for martiall exercises, and extraordinary
shows and solemnities for ambassadors, and persons of honor and quality," with the power granted
to the owners to order "a cessation from other shows and sports, for one day in a month only,
upon fourteen days' warning."

[Footnote 687: Of these men nothing is known; something, however, may be inferred from the
following entries in Sir Henry Herbert's Office-Book: "On the 20th August, 1623, a license
gratis, to John Williams and four others, to make show of an Elephant, for a year; on the 5th
of September to make show of a live Beaver; on the 9th of June, 1638, to make show of an outlandish
creature, called a Possum." (George Chalmers, Supplemental Apology, p. 208.)]

[Footnote 688: The place is not indicated, but it was probably outside the city.]

But for some reason the King suddenly changed his mind, and on September 29, 1620, he addressed
a letter to the Privy Council directing them to cancel the license:[689]

     Right trusty and right well-beloved Cousins and Councellors,
     and right trusty and well-beloved Councellors, we greet you
     well. Whereas at the humble suit of our servants John
     Cotton, John Williams, and Thomas Dixon, and in recompence
     of their services, we have been pleased to license them to
     build an Amphitheatre, which hath passed our Signet and is
     stayed at our Privy Seal; and finding therein contained some
     such words and clauses, as may, in some constructions, seem
     to give them greater liberty both in point of building and
     using of exercises than is any way to be permitted, or was
     ever by us intended, we have thought fit to command and give
     authority unto you, or any four of you, to cause that
     already passed to be cancelled, and to give order unto our
     Solicitor General for the drawing up of a new warrant for
     our signature to the same parties, according to such
     directions and reservations as herewith we send you. Wherein
     we are more particular, both in the affirmative and the
     negative, to the end that, as on one side we would have
     nothing pass us to remain upon record which either for the
     form might not become us or for the substance might cross
     our many proclamations (pursued with good success) for
     buildings, or, on the other side, might give them cause to
     importune us after they had been at charges; to which end we
     wish that you call them before you and let them know our
     pleasure and resolution therein.

[Footnote 689: See State Papers, Domestic, 1619-1623, p. 181. I have quoted the letter from
Collier, The History of English Dramatic Poetry (1879), I, 408.]

Accordingly the license was canceled, and no new license was issued.

In 1626, however, John Williams and Thomas Dixon (what had become of John Cotton we do not
know) made an attempt to secure a license from King Charles, then newly come to the throne,
to erect an amphitheatre in Lincoln's Inn Fields. Apparently they so worded the proposed grant
as to authorize them to present in their amphitheatre not only spectacles, but dramatic performances
and animal-baitings as well, with the power to restrain all other places of amusement for one
day in each week, on giving two days' warning.

A "bill" to this effect was drawn up and submitted to Thomas Coventry, the Lord Keeper, who
examined it hastily, and dispatched it to Lord Conway with the following letter:[690]

     My very good Lord,--I have perused this Bill, and do call
     to mind that about three or four years past when I was
     Attorney General, a patent for an Amphitheatre was in hand
     to have passed; but upon this sudden, without search of my
     papers, I cannot give your lordship any account of the true
     cause wherefore it did not pass, nor whether that and this
     do vary in substance: neither am I apt upon a sudden to take
     impertinent exceptions to anything that is to pass, much
     less to a thing that is recommended by so good a friend. But
     if upon perusal of my papers which I had while I was
     Attorney, or upon more serious thoughts, I shall observe
     anything worthy to be represented to His Majesty, or to the
     Council, I shall then acquaint your lordship; and in the
     meantime I would be loath to be the author of a motion to
     His Majesty to stay it: but if you find His Majesty at
     fitting leisure, to move him that he will give leave to
     think of it in this sort as I have written, it may do well;
     and I assure your lordship, unless I find matter of more
     consequence than I observe on this sudden, it is not like to
     be stayed. And so I rest your lordship's very assured to do
     you service,

     THO. COVENTRYE, CH.

     CANBURY, 12 August, 1626.

[Footnote 690: Collier, op. cit., I, 443.]

Apparently some very influential person was urging the passage of the bill. But the scheme
soon evoked the bitter opposition of the various troupes of players, and of the owners of the
various theatres and other places of amusement. An echo of the quarrel is found in Marmion's
Holland's Leaguer, II, iii:

     Twill dead all my device in making matches,
     My plots of architecture, and erecting
     New amphitheatres to draw custom
     From playhouses once a week, and so pull
     A curse upon my head from the poor scoundrels.[691]

[Footnote 691: The Dramatic Works of Shackerley Marmion, in
Dramatists of the Restoration, p. 37.
     And therefore, not holding this new grant fit to pass, as
     being no other in effect but to translate the playhouses and
     Bear Garden from the Bankside to a place much more unfit, I
     thought fit to give your lordship these reasons for it;
     wherewithal you may please to acquaint His Majesty, if there
     shall be cause. And so remain your lordship's very assured
     friend to do you service,

     THO. COVENTRYE.

     CANBURY, 28 Sept., 1626.
       LO. CONWAY.

[Footnote 692: I quote the letter from Collier, The History of English Dramatic Poetry (1879),
I, 444.]

On the letter Lord Conway has written the indorsement: "That it is unfit the grant for the
Amphitheatre should passe." And such, no doubt, was the ultimate decision of the Privy Council,
for we hear nothing more of the project.

III

OGILBY'S DUBLIN THEATRE

In 1635 a playhouse was opened in Dublin by John Ogilby,--dancing-master, theatrical manager,
playwright, scholar, translator, poet,--now best known, perhaps, for the ridicule he inspired
in Dryden's MacFlecknoe and Pope's Dunciad. At the beginning of his versatile career he was
a successful London dancing-master, popular with "the nobility and gentry." When Thomas Earl
of Strafford was appointed Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, he took Ogilby with him to Dublin, to
teach his wife and children the art of dancing, and also to help with the secretarial duties.
Under Strafford's patronage, Ogilby was appointed to the post of Master of the Revels for Ireland;
and in this capacity he built a small playhouse in Dublin and began to cultivate dramatic representations
after the manner of London. Anthony à Wood in Athenæ Oxonienses, says:

     He built a little theatre to act plays in, in St. Warburg's
     street in Dublin, and was then and there valued by all
     ingenious men for his great industry in promoting morality
     and ingenuity.[693]

[Footnote 693: Bliss's edition, III, 741.]

Aubrey writes:

     He had a warrant from the Lord Lieutenant to be Master of
     the Ceremonies for that kingdom; and built a pretty[694]
     little theatre in St. Warburgh Street in Dublin.

[Footnote 694: "Pretty little theatre" is the reading of MS. Aubr. 7, folio 20; MS. Aubr. 8
omits the adjective "pretty." For Aubrey's full account of Ogilby see Andrew Clark's Brief
Lives (1898), 2 vols.]

The history of this "little theatre" is not known in detail. For its actors Ogilby himself
wrote at least one play, entitled The Merchant of Dublin,[695] and Henry Burnell a tragi-comedy
entitled Landgartha, printed in 1641 "as it was presented in the new theatre in Dublin with
good applause." But its chief playwright was James Shirley, who came to Dublin in 1636 under
the patronage of the Earl of Kildare. For the Irish stage he wrote The Royal Master, published
in 1638 as "acted in the new theatre in Dublin"; Rosania, or Love's Victory, now known as The
Doubtful Heir, under which title it was later printed; St. Patrick for Ireland;[696] and in
all probability The Constant Maid.[697] The actors, however, had little need to buy original
plays, for they were free, no doubt, to take any of the numerous London successes. From Shirley's
Poems we learn that they were presenting Jonson's Alchemist, Middleton's No Wit, two of Fletcher's
plays, unnamed, and two anonymous plays entitled The Toy and The General; and we may fairly
assume that they honored several of Shirley's early plays in the same way.

[Footnote 695: Aubrey mentions this as having been "written in Dublin, and never printed."]

[Footnote 696: Published in 1640 as "the first part," and both the Prologue and the Epilogue
speak of a second part; but no second part was printed, and in all probability it never was
written.]

[Footnote 697: Never licensed for England; reprinted in 1657 with St. Patrick for Ireland.]

The theatre came to a sudden end with the outbreak of the rebellion in 1641. In October the
Lords Justices prohibited playing there; and shortly after, we are told, the building was "ruined
and spoiled, and a cow-house made of the stage."[698]

[Footnote 698: MS. Aubr. 7, folio 20 v. Ogilby's second theatre in Dublin, built after the
Restoration, does not fall within the scope of the present work.]

IV

THE FRENCH PLAYERS' TEMPORARY THEATRE IN DRURY LANE

In February, 1635, a company of French players, under the leadership of the eminent actor,
Josias de Soulas, better known by his stage-name of Floridor,[699] appeared in London, and
won such favor at Court that they were ultimately allowed to fit up a house in Drury Lane for
a temporary theatre. The history of these players is mainly found in the records of the Master
of the Revels and of the Lord Chamberlain. From the former, Malone has preserved the following
entries by Herbert:

     On Tuesday night the 17 of February, 1634 [i.e., 1635], a
     French company of players, being approved of by the Queen at
     her house two nights before, and commended by Her Majesty to
     the King, were admitted to the Cockpitt in Whitehall, and
     there presented the King and Queen with a French comedy
     called Melise,[700] with good approbation: for which play
     the King gave them ten pounds.

     This day being Friday, and the 20 of the same month, the
     King told me his pleasure, and commanded me to give order
     that this French company should play the two sermon days in
     the week during their time of playing in Lent [i.e.,
     Wednesdays and Fridays, on which days during Lent the
     English companies were not allowed to play], and in the
     house of Drury Lane [i.e., the Cockpit Playhouse], where the
     Queen's Players usually play. The King's pleasure I
     signified to Mr. Beeston [the manager of the Cockpit] the
     same day, who obeyed readily. The housekeepers are to give
     them by promise the benefit of their interest[701] for the
     two days of the first week. They had the benefit of playing
     on the sermon days, and got two hundred pounds at least;
     besides many rich clothes were given them. They had freely
     to themselves the whole week before the week before
     Easter,[702] which I obtained of the King for them.

[Footnote 699: See Frederick Hawkins, Annals of the French Stage (1884), I, 148 ff., for the
career of this player on the French stage. "Every gift required by the actor," says Hawkins,
"was possessed by Floridor."]

[Footnote 700: La Melise, ou Les Princes Reconnus, by Du Rocher, first acted in Paris in 1633;
see The Athenæum, July 11, 1891, p. 73; and cf. ibid., p. 139.]

[Footnote 701: "Housekeepers" were owners, who always demanded of the players as rental for
the building a certain part of each day's takings. The passage quoted means that the housekeepers
allowed the French players to receive all money taken on the two sermon days of the first week,
and after that exacted their usual share as rental for the building.]

[Footnote 702: That is, Passion Week, during which time the English companies were never allowed
to give performances.]

The use of the Cockpit in Drury Lane came to an end at Easter, for the Queen's own troupe,
under Beeston's management, regularly occupied that building. But the King summoned the French
players to act at Court on several occasions. Thus Herbert records:

     The 4 April, on Easter Monday,[703] they played the
     Trompeur Puny[704] with better approbation than the
     other.

     On Wednesday night, the 16 April,[705] 1635, the French
     played Alcimedor[706] with good approbation.[707]

[Footnote 703: This must be an error, for Easter Monday fell on March 30.]

[Footnote 704: Le Trompeur Puni, ou Histoire Septentrionale, by Scuderi.]

[Footnote 705: Wednesday was the 15th.]

[Footnote 706: Alcimedon, by Duryer.]

[Footnote 707: Malone, Variorum, III, 121, note.]

Clearly these actors were in high favor at Court. Sir Henry, who did not as a rule show any
hesitancy in accepting fees, notes in the margin of his book: "The French offered me a present
of £10; but I refused it, and did them many other courtesies gratis to render the Queen my
mistress an acceptable service." In view of this royal favor, it is not surprising to find
that, after they were driven from the Cockpit, they received permission to fit up a temporary
playhouse in the manage, or riding-school, of one M. Le Febure, in Drury Lane. The Lord Chamberlain's
Office-Book contains the following entry on the subject:

     18 April, 1635: His Majesty hath commanded me to signify his
     royal pleasure that the French comedians (having agreed with
     Mons. le Febure) may erect a stage, scaffolds, and seats,
     and all other accommodations which shall be convenient, and
     act and present interludes and stage plays at his house [and
     manage[708]] in Drury Lane, during His Majesty's pleasure,
     without any disturbance, hindrance, or interruption. And
     this shall be to them, and Mr. le Febure, and to all others,
     a sufficient discharge, &c.[709]

[Footnote 708: This clause I insert from Mrs. Stopes's notes on the Lord Chamberlain's records,
in the Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XLVI, 97.]

[Footnote 709: I have chosen to reproduce the record from Chalmers's Apology, p. 506, note
s, rather than from Mrs. Stopes's apparently less accurate notes in the Shakespeare Jahrbuch,
XLVI, 97.]

Apparently the players lost little time in fitting up the building, for we read in Herbert's
Office-Book:

     A warrant granted to Josias D'Aunay,[710] Hurfries de Lau,
     and others, for to act plays at a new house in Drury Lane,
     during pleasure, the 5 May, 1635.

     The King was pleased to command my Lord Chamberlain to
     direct his warrant to Monsieur Le Fevure, to give him a
     power to contract with the Frenchmen for to build a
     playhouse in the manage-house, which was done accordingly by
     my advice and allowance.[711]

[Footnote 710: Should we place a comma after "Josias"? That "Josias Floridor" was the leader
of the troupe we know from two separate entries; cf. Chalmers, Apology, pp. 508, 509.]

[Footnote 711: Malone, Variorum, III, 122, note.]

In Glapthorne's The Ladies' Priviledge is a good-natured allusion to the French Company and
their vivacious style of acting:[712]

     La. But, Adorni,
     What think you of the French?

     Ador. Very airy people, who participate
     More fire than earth; yet generally good,
     And nobly disposition'd, something inclining
     To over-weening fancy. This lady
     Tells my remembrance of a comic scene
     I once saw in their Theatre.

     Bon. Add it to
     Your former courtesies, and express it.

[Footnote 712: Act II, Scene i. This passage is pointed out by Lawrence, The Elizabethan Playhouse,
p. 137.]

Whereupon, according to the stage direction, Adorni "acts furiously."

In the margin of his Office-Book Sir Henry Herbert writes complacently: "These Frenchmen were
commended unto me by the Queen, and have passed through my hands gratis." This was indeed a
rare favor from Herbert; but they did not so easily escape his deputy, William Blagrove, who
accepted from them the sum of "three pounds for his pains."

How long the French actors occupied their temporary playhouse in Drury Lane is not clear. In
the Lord Chamberlain's book we find an entry showing that they presented a play at Court in
December, 1635: "Warrant to pay £10 to Josias Floridor for himself and the rest of the French
players for a tragedy by them played before His Majesty Dec. last."[713] The entry is dated
January 8, 1636, and, so far as I can discover, this is the last reference to the French players
in London. We may suppose that shortly after this they returned to Paris.

[Footnote 713: Stopes, op. cit., p. 98, Chalmers, Apology, p. 509.]

V

DAVENANT'S PROJECTED THEATRE IN FLEET STREET

On March 26, 1639, William Davenant, who had succeeded Ben Jonson as Poet Laureate, secured
from King Charles a royal patent under the Great Seal of England to erect a playhouse in Fleet
Street, to be used not only for regular plays, but also for "musical entertainments" and "scenic
representations." Davenant, as we know, was especially interested in "the art of perspective
in scenes," and also in the Italian opera musicale. The royal patent--unusually verbose even
for a patent--is printed in full in Rymer's Foedera, XX, 377; I cite below all the essential
passages:

     [The Building.] Know ye, that we, of our especial grace,
     certain knowledge, and meere motion, and upon the humble
     petition of our servant William Davenant, gentleman, have
     given and granted, and by these presents, for us, our heirs,
     and successors, do give and grant unto the said William
     Davenant, his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns,
     full power, license, and authority ... to frame, new-build,
     and set up ... a Theatre or Playhouse, with necessary tiring
     and retiring rooms, and other places convenient, containing
     in the whole forty yards square at the most,[714] wherein
     plays, musical entertainments, scenes, or other like
     presentments may be presented ... so as the outwalls of the
     said Theatre or Playhouse, tiring or retiring rooms, be made
     or built of brick or stone, according to the tenor of our
     proclamations in that behalf.

     [Its Location.] Upon a parcel of ground lying near unto or
     behind the Three Kings Ordinary in Fleet Street, in the
     parishes of Saint Dunstan's in the West, London, or in Saint
     Bride's, London, or in either of them; or in any other
     ground in or about that place, or in the whole street
     aforesaid, already allotted to him for that use, or in any
     other place that is or hereafter shall be assigned or
     allotted out to the said William Davenant by our right
     trusty and right well-beloved cousin and counsellor Thomas,
     Earl of Arundel and Surrey, Earl Marshall of England, or any
     other of our commissioners for building for that time being
     in that behalf. And that it shall and may be
     lawful to and for the said William Davenant, his heirs,
     executors, administrators, and assigns, to take and receive
     of such our subjects as shall resort to see or hear any such
     plays, scenes, and entertainments whatsoever, such sum or
     sums of money as is, are, or hereafter from time to time
     shall be accustomed to be given or taken in other playhouses
     and places for the like plays, scenes, presentments, and
     entertainments.

[Footnote 714: The Fortune was only eighty feet square, but the stage projected to the middle
of the yard. Davenant probably wished to provide for an alcove stage of sufficient depth to
accommodate his "scenes."]

[Footnote 715: That is, he may give his "musical presentments," etc., either at the hours when
he was accustomed to give plays, or after his plays are ended. This does not necessarily imply
evening entertainments.]

The novelty of the scheme and the great size of the proposed building must have alarmed the
owners of playhouses. That the established theatrical proprietors were hostile is clearly indicated
by the attitude of Richard Heton, one of the Sewers of the Chamber to Queen Henrietta, and
at the time manager of the Salisbury Court Playhouse. In September, 1639, he wrote out a document
entitled "Instructions for my Patent," in which he advanced reasons why he should receive the
sole power to elect the members of the Queen's Company of Players. He observes that under the
existing arrangement the company was free to leave the Salisbury Court Playhouse at their pleasure,
"as in one year and a half of their being here they have many times threatened"; and he concludes
by adding: "and one now of the chief fellows [i.e., sharers of the company], an agent for one
[William Davenant] that hath got a grant from the King for the building of a new playhouse
which was intended to be in Fleet Street, which no man can judge that a fellow of our Company,
and a well-wisher to those that own the house, would ever be an actor in."[716] Doubtless the
owners of other houses had the same sentiments, and exercised what influence they possessed
against the scheme. But the most serious opposition in all probability came from the citizens
and merchants living in the neighborhood. We know how bitterly they complained about the coaches
that brought playgoers to the small Blackfriars Theatre, and how strenuously from year to year
they sought the expulsion of the King's Men from the precinct.[717] They certainly would not
have regarded with complacency the erection in their midst of a still larger theatre.

[Footnote 716: Cunningham, The Whitefriars Theatre, in The Shakespeare Society's Papers, IV, 96.]

[Footnote 717: See the chapter on the Second Blackfriars.]

Whatever the opposition, it was so powerful that on October 2 Davenant was compelled to make
an indenture by which he virtually renounced[718] for himself and his heirs for ever the right
to build a theatre in Fleet Street, or in any other place "in or near the cities, or suburbs
of the cities, of London or Westminster," without further and special permission granted. This
document, first printed by Chalmers in his Supplemental Apology, is as follows:

     This indenture made the second day of October, in the
     fifteenth year of the reign of our Sovereign Lord Charles,
     by the grace of God, of England, Scotland, France, and
     Ireland King, Defender of the Faith, &c. Anno Domini 1639.
     Between the said King's most excellent Majesty of the first
     part, and William Davenant of London, Gent., of the other
     part. In witness whereof to the one part of
     this indenture the said William Davenant hath set his hand
     and seal the day and year first above written.

     WILLIAM DAVENANT. L.S.

     Signed sealed and delivered
       in the presence of
       Edw. Penruddoks.
       Michael Baker.

[Footnote 718: That he did not actually surrender the patent is shown by the fact that he claimed
privileges by virtue of it after the Restoration; see Halliwell-Phillipps, A Collection of
Ancient Documents, p. 48.]

Possibly as a recompense for this surrender of his rights, Davenant was made Governor of the
King's and Queen's Servants at the Cockpit in June of the following year; and from this time
until the suppression of acting in 1642, he expended his energies in managing the affairs of
this important playhouse.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

[In the following list are included the books and articles constituting the main authorities
upon which the present study is based. The list is not intended to be an exhaustive bibliography,
though from the nature of the case it is fairly complete. For the guidance of scholars the
more important titles are marked with asterisks. It will be seen that not all the works are
included which are cited in the text, or referred to in footnotes; the list, in fact, is strictly
confined to works bearing upon the history of the pre-Restoration playhouses. Considerations
of space have led to the omission of a large number of books dealing with the topography of
London, and of the counties of Middlesex and Surrey, although a knowledge of these is essential
to any thorough study of the playhouses. Furthermore, titles of contemporary plays, pamphlets,
and treatises are excluded, except a few of unusual and general value. Finally, discussions
of the structure of the early stage, of the manner of dramatic performances in the time of
Shakespeare, and of the travels of English actors on the Continent are omitted, except when
these contain also material important for the study of the theatres. At the close is appended
a select list of early maps and views of London.]

*1. Actors Remonstrance, or Complaint for the Silencing of their Profession. London, 1643.
(Reprinted in W.C. Hazlitt's The English Drama and Stage, and in E.W. Ashbee's Facsimile Reprints.)

*2. ADAMS, J.Q. The Conventual Buildings of Blackfriars, London, and the Playhouses Constructed
Therein. (The University of North Carolina Studies in Philology, XIV, 64.)

3. ---- The Four Pictorial Representations of the Elizabethan Stage. (The Journal of English
and Germanic Philology, X, 329.)

*4. ---- The Dramatic Records of Sir Henry Herbert, Master of the Revels 1623-1673. New Haven,
1917.

5. ---- Lordinge (alias "Lodowick") Barry. (Modern Philology, IX, 567. See No. 189.)

6. ALBRECHT, H.A. Das englische Kindertheater. Halle, 1883.

7. ARCHER, T. The Highway of Letters. London, 1893. (Chap. XV, "Whitefriars and the Playhouses.")

8. ARCHER, W. The Fortune Theatre. (The London Tribune, October 12, 1907; reprinted in New
Shakespeariana, October, 1908, and in the Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XLIV, 159. See also Nos. 8,
38, 61, 129.)

9. ---- A Sixteenth Century Playhouse. (The Universal Review, June, 1888, p. 281. Deals with
the De Witt drawing of the Swan.)

10. ARONSTEIN, P. Die Organisation des englischen Schauspiels im Zeitalter Shakespeares. (Germanisch-Romanische
Monatsschrift, II, 165, 216.)

11. AUDI ALTERAM PARTEM. Cunningham's Extracts from the Revels' Books. (The Athenæum, 1911,
II, 101, 130, 421; 1912, I, 469, 654; II, 143. See Nos. 80, 179, 180, 183.)

12. BAKER, G.P. The Children of Powles. (The Harvard Monthly, May, 1891.)

13. ---- The Development of Shakespeare as a Dramatist. New York, 1907.

14. BAKER, H.B. History of the London Stage and its Famous Players. London and New York, 1904.
(A new and rewritten edition of The London Stage. 2 vols. London, 1889.)

15. ---- Our Old Actors. 2 vols. London, 1881. (There was an earlier edition, London, 1878,
printed in New York, 1879, with the title, English Actors from Shakespeare to Macready.)

16. BAPST, C.G. Essai sur l'Histoire du Théâtre. Paris, 1893.

17. BARRETT, C.R.B. The History of the Society of Apothecaries of London. London, 1905.

BEAR GARDEN AND HOPE. See Nos. 27, 72, 99, 119, 143, 144, 147, 152, 157, 198, 221, 222, 223,
228, 236, 238, 239, 240, 241, 274, 281, 303, 304, 316.

*18. BELL, H. Contributions to the History of the English Playhouse. (The Architectural Record,
March and April, 1913.)

19. BELL, W.G. Fleet Street in Seven Centuries. London, 1912. (Chap. XIV, "The Whitefriars
Playhouses.")

20. BESANT, SIR W. Mediæval London. London in the Time of the Tudors. London in the Time of
the Stuarts. 4 vols. London, 1903-06.

21. BINZ, G. Deutsche Besucher im Shakespeare'schen London. (Beilage zur Allgemeinen Zeitung.
München, August, 1902.)

22. ---- Londoner Theater und Schauspiele im Jahre 1599. (Anglia, XXII, 456.)

*23. BIRCH, T. AND R.F. WILLIAMS. The Court and Times of James the First. 2 vols. London, 1849.

BLACKFRIARS, FIRST AND SECOND. See Nos. 2, 6, 17, 20, 26, 34, 41, 42, 43, 59, 61, 72, 90, 97,
100, 101, 105, 106, 108, 119, 136, 137, 146, 150, 163, 178, 179, 191, 196, 201, 214, 218, 223,
244, 248, 287, 288, 289, 293, 296, 297, 298.

24. BLANCH, W.H. Dulwich College and Edward Alleyn. London, 1877.

25. BOLINGBROKE, L.G. Pre-Elizabethan Plays and Players in Norfolk. (Norfolk Archæology, XI, 336.)

26. BOND, R.W. The Complete Works of John Lyly. 3 vols. Oxford, 1902.

27. BOULTON, W.B. The Amusements of Old London. 2 vols. London, 1901.

*28. BRAINES, W.W. Holywell Priory and the Site of the Theatre, Shoreditch. London, 1915. (Part
XLIII of Indications of Houses of Historical Interest in London, issued by the London County
Council.)

BRAND, J. See No. 157.

29. BRANDES, G. William Shakespeare. Translated by William Archer. 2 vols. London, 1898.

30. BRAYLEY, E.W. Historical and Descriptive Accounts of the Theatres of London. London, 1826.
(Brief notice of the Cockpit in Drury Lane; relates chiefly to Restoration theatres.)

31. BRERETON, J. LE G. De Witt at the Swan. (A Book of Homage to Shakespeare. Oxford, 1916,
p. 204.)

32. BRUCE, J. Who was "Will, my lord of Leycester's jesting player"? (The Shakespeare Society's
Papers, I, 88.)

33. BULLEN, G. The Cockpit or Phoenix Theatre in 1660. (The Athenæum, May 21, 1881, p. 699.)

*34. BÜLOW, G. VON AND W. POWELL. Diary of the Journey of Philip Julius, Duke of Stettin-Pomerania,
through England in the year 1602. (Transactions of the Royal Historical Society, New Series,
VI. See No. 146.)

*35. Calendar of State Papers, Domestic Series, 1547-1660. London, 1856-. (See also No. 192.)

36. Calendar of the Patent Rolls. London, 1891-1908.

37. CALMOUR, A.C. Fact and Fiction about Shakespeare, with Some Account of the Playhouses,
Players, and Playwrights of His Period. Stratford-on-Avon, 1894.

38. A Catalogue of Models and of Stage-Sets in the Dramatic Museum of Columbia University.
New York, 1916. (See also Nos. 129, 211.)

*39. CHALMERS, GEORGE. An Apology for the Believers in the Shakspeare-Papers. London, 1797.

*40. ---- A Supplemental Apology. London, 1799.

*41. CHAMBERS, E.K. Commissions for the Chapel. (The Malone Society's Collections, I, 357.)

*42. ---- Court Performances Before Queen Elizabeth. (The Modern Language Review, II, 1.)

*43. ---- Court Performances Under James the First. (Ibid., IV, 153.)

*44. ---- Dramatic Records from the Lansdowne Manuscripts. (The Malone Society's Collections,
I, 143.)

45. ---- The Elizabethan Lords Chamberlain. (Ibid., I, 31.)

46. ---- [Review of] Henslowe's Diary, Edited by Walter W. Greg. (The Modern Language Review,
IV, 407, 511.)

*47. ---- A Jotting by John Aubrey. (The Malone Society's Collections, I, 341. Concerns Beeston
and the Cockpit in Drury Lane.)

*48. ---- The Mediæval Stage. Oxford, 1903.

49. ---- Nathaniel Field and Joseph Taylor. (The Modern Language Review, IV, 395.)

50. ---- Notes on the History of the Revels Office under the Tudors. London, 1906.

51. ---- The Stage of the Globe. (The Works of William Shakespeare. Stratford-Town Edition.
Stratford-on-Avon, 1904-07, X, 351.)

52. ---- Two Early Player-Lists. (The Malone Society's Collections, I, 348.)

53. ---- William Kempe. (The Modern Language Review, IV, 88.)

*54. CHAMBERS, E.K. AND W.W. GREG. Dramatic Records from the Privy Council Register, 1603-1642.
(The Malone Society's Collections, I, 370. For the records prior to 1603 see No. 87. Cf. also
No. 260.)

*55. ---- Dramatic Records of the City of London. The Remembrancia. (The Malone Society's Collections,
I, 43. See also No. 224.)

*56. ---- Royal Patents for Players. (The Malone Society's Collections, I, 260.)

57. CHARLANNE, L. L'Influence Française en Angleterre au xviie Siecle, Le Théâtre et la Critique.
Paris, 1906.

*58. CHILD, H. The Elizabethan Theatre. (The Cambridge History of English Literature, vol.
VI, chap. X.)

59. CLAPHAM, A.W. On the Topography of the Dominican Priory of London. (Archæologia, LXIII,
57. See also Nos. 2, 61.)

*60. ---- The Topography of the Carmelite Priory of London. (The Journal of the British Archæological
Association, New Series, XVI, 15. See also No. 61.)

61. CLAPHAM, A.W. AND W.H. GODFREY. Some Famous Buildings and their Story. Westminster, [1913].
(Contains Godfrey's study of the Fortune contract, and, in abbreviated form, the two articles
by Clapham noted above, Nos. 59, 60. See also Nos. 8, 38, 116, 129.)

62. CLARK, A. Players or Companies on Tour 1548-1630. (Notes and Queries, X Series, XII, 41.)

COCKPIT-IN-COURT. See Nos. 18, 80, 81, 82, 83, 89, 99, 180, 181, 182, 183, 184, 197, 228, 250,
253, 305, 313.

COCKPIT-IN-DRURY LANE. See Nos. 4, 30, 33, 47, 72, 88, 91, 99, 119, 138, 139, 142, 147, 159,
197, 223, 227, 228, 303.

*63. COLLIER, J.P. The Alleyn Papers. London. Printed for The Shakespeare Society, 1843. (See
No. 161.)

64. ---- The Diary of Philip Henslowe. London. Printed for The Shakespeare Society, 1845. (See
No. 143.)

*65. ---- The History of English Dramatic Poetry. 3 vols. 1831. Second edition, London, 1879.

66. ---- Lives of the Original Actors. (See No. 68.)

*67. ---- Memoirs of Edward Alleyn. London. Printed for The Shakespeare Society, 1841. (See
No. 316.)

68. ---- Memoirs of the Principal Actors in the Plays of Shakespeare. London. Printed for The
Shakespeare Society, 1846. (Reprinted with some corrections in No. 65.)

69. ---- On Players and Dramatic Performances in the Reign of Edward IV. (The Shakespeare Society's
Papers, II, 87.)

*70. ---- Original History of "The Theatre" in Shoreditch, and Connexion of the Burbadge Family
with it. (Ibid., IV, 63.)

71. ---- Richard Field, Nathaniel Field, Anthony Munday, and Henry Chettle. (Ibid., IV, 36.)

*72. ---- The Works of Shakespeare, London, 1844. (Vol. I, p. ccxli, reprints a record of the
end of certain early playhouses from "some manuscript notes to a copy of Stowe's Annales, by
Howes, folio, 1631, in the possession of Mr. Pickering." See No. 119.)

73. CONRAD, H. Robert Greene als Dramatiker. (The Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XXIX-XXX, 210.)

74. CORBIN, J. Shakspere his own Stage-Manager. (The Century Magazine, LXXXIII, 260.)

75. CREIGHTON, C. A History of Epidemics in Britain. 2 vols. Cambridge, 1891-94.

76. CREIZENACH, W. Geschichte des neueren Dramas. Vol. IV, Part I, Book viii. Halle, 1909.
(English translation by Cécile Hugon, London, 1916.)

77. ---- Die Schauspiele der englischen Komödianten. (Deutsche National-Litteratur, XXIII.)

78. CULLEN, C. Puritanism and the Stage. (Proceedings of the Royal Philosophical Society of
Glasgow, XLIII, 153.)

79. CUNNINGHAM. P. Did General Harrison Kill "Dick Robinson" the Player? (The Shakespeare Society's
Papers, II, 11.)

*80. ---- Extracts from the Accounts of the Revels at the Court in the Reigns of Queen Elizabeth
and King James I. London. Printed for The Shakespeare Society, 1842. (See Nos. 11, 180, 181, 184.)

81. ---- A Handbook of London. 2 vols. London, 1849. (A new edition, "corrected and enlarged,"
London, 1850. See also No. 305.)

82. ---- Inigo Jones. A Life of the Architect. London. Printed for The Shakespeare Society, 1848.

83. ---- Inigo Jones, and his Office under the Crown. (The Shakespeare Society's Papers, I, 103.)

84. ---- Plays at Court, Anno 1613. (Ibid., II, 123.)

85. ---- Sir George Buc and the Office of the Revels. (Ibid., IV, 143.)

*86. ---- The Whitefriars Theatre, the Salisbury Court Theatre, and the Duke's Theatre in Dorset
Gardens. (Ibid., IV, 89.)

CURTAIN. See Nos. 96, 150, 151, 222, 223, 284.

*87. DASENT, J.R. Acts of the Privy Council of England. New Series. London, 1890-. (This contains
the Acts to the end of Elizabeth's reign; for those Acts relating to the drama from 1603 to
1642, see No. 54. Cf. No. 260.)

88. Description of the Great Machines of the Descent of Orpheus into Hell. Presented by the
French Comedians at the Cockpit in Drury Lane. London, 1661.

89. (See Nos. 34, 146.)

90. Of value for Blackfriars.)

*91. DOWNES, J. Roscius Anglicanus. London, 1708.

92. DRAMATICUS. On the Profits of Old Actors. (The Shakespeare Society's Papers, I, 21.)

93. ---- The Players Who Acted in The Shoemaker's Holiday, 1600. (Ibid., IV, 110.)

94. DURAND, W.Y. Notes on Richard Edwards. (The Journal of Germanic Philology, IV, 348.)

95. ---- Palæmon and Arcyte, Progne, Marcus Geminus, and the Theatre in Which They Were Acted,
1566. (Publications of the Modern Language Association of America, XX, 502.)

96. ELLIS, H. The History and Antiquities of the Parish of Saint Leonard, Shoreditch. London, 1798.

97. ELTON, C.I. William Shakespeare, His Family and Friends. London, 1904. (Chap. IV deals
with Blackfriars and the Globe.)

98. EVANS, M.B. An Early Type of Stage. (Modern Philology, IX, 421.)

99. EVELYN, J. Diary and Correspondence. Edited by William Bray and H.B. Wheatley. 4 vols.
London, 1906.

*100. FEUILLERAT, A. Blackfriars Records. (The Malone Society's Collections, II, 1.)

101. ---- John Lyly. Cambridge, 1910.

102. ---- Le Bureau des Menus-Plaisirs (Office of the Revels) et la Mise en Scène a la Cour
D'Élizabeth. Louvain, 1910.

*103. ---- Documents Relating to the Office of the Revels in the Time of Queen Elizabeth. Louvain,
1908.

104. ---- Documents Relating to the Revels at Court in the Time of King Edward VI and Queen
Mary. (The Loseley Manuscripts.) Louvain, 1914.

*105. ---- The Origin of Shakespeare's Blackfriars Theatre. (The Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XLVIII, 81.)

106. ---- Shakespeare's Blackfriars. (The London Daily Chronicle, December 22, 1911.)

*107. FIRTH, C.H. The Suppression of the Drama during the Protectorate and Commonwealth. (Notes
and Queries, VII Series, VI, 122.)

108. FITZJEFFREY, H. Notes from Black-fryers. London, 1620.

*109. FLEAY, F.G. A Biographical Chronicle of the English Drama, 1559-1642. 2 vols. London, 1891.

110. ---- A Chronicle History of the Life and Work of William Shakespeare. London, 1886.

*111. ---- A Chronicle History of the London Stage, 1559-1642. London, 1890.

112. ---- History of the Theatres in London from their First Opening in 1576 to their Closing
in 1642. (Transactions of the Royal Historical Society, X, 114. Also privately issued.)

113. ---- On the Actor Lists, 1578-1642. (Ibid., IX, 44.)

114. ---- A Shakespeare Manual. London, 1878.

115. FLECKNOE, R. A Short Discourse of the English Stage. (Attached to Love's Kingdom, 1664;
reprinted in No. 158.)

116. FORESTIER, A. The Fortune Theatre Reconstructed. (The Illustrated London News, August
12, 1911, p. 276.)

117. ---- Origins of the English Stage (Ibid., CXXXV, 934; CXXXVI, 57, 169, 225, 344, 423.)

FORTUNE. See Nos. 8, 24, 38, 46, 61, 63, 64, 67, 72, 89, 116, 119, 120, 126, 129, 143, 144,
161, 190, 211, 223, 231, 234, 235, 239, 303, 304, 316.

118. FOWELL, F. AND F. PALMER. Censorship in England. London, [1913].

*119. FURNIVALL, F.J. The End of Shakespeare's Theatres. (The Academy, XXII, 314. Manuscript
notes from the Phillipps copy of Stow's Annals, 1631. Previously printed by Collier. See No. 72.)

120. ---- The Fortune Theatre in 1649. (Notes and Queries, X Series, I, 85.)

*121. ---- Harrison's Description of England. The New Shakspere Society. London, 1877-78. (See
No. 154.)

122. G., G.M. The Stage Censor, an Historical Sketch: 1544-1907. London, 1908.

*123. GAEDERTZ, K.T. Zur Kenntnis der altenglischen Bühne. Bremen, 1888. (On the De Witt drawing
of the Swan. See Nos. 31, 193, 306.)

124. GAEHDE, C. Das Theater; Schauspielhaus und Schauspielkunst vom griechischen Altertum bis
auf die Gegenwart. Leipzig, 1908.

125. GARDNER, A.E. The Site of the Globe Playhouse of Shakespeare. (The Athenæum, December
5, 1914.)

126. GAYTON, E. Pleasant Notes on Don Quixot. London, 1654. (The second edition, 1768, is of
no value.)

127. GENEST, J. Some Account of the English Stage from the Restoration in 1660 to 1830. 10
vols. Bath, 1832.

*128. GILDERSLEEVE, V.C. Government Regulation of the Elizabethan Drama. New York, 1908.

GLOBE. See Nos. 38, 49, 51, 72, 97, 117, 119, 125, 150, 152, 165, 166, 167, 171, 176, 191,
205, 206, 207, 208, 211, 212, 213, 223, 233, 236, 237, 240, 241, 251, 257, 266, 292, 297, 299,
300, 301.

129. GODFREY, W.H. An Elizabethan Playhouse. (The Architectural Review, London, April, 1908;
reprinted in No. 61. See also the Architect and Builder's Journal, London, August 16, 1911,
and The Architectural Review, London, January, 1912, for descriptions of Mr. Godfrey's model
of the Fortune. This model is now in the Dramatic Museum at Columbia University, and a duplicate
is in the Museum of European Culture at the University of Illinois. See also Nos. 8, 38, 61,
116, 211.)

130. GOODWIN, A.T. Court Revels in the Reign of Henry VII. (The Shakespeare Society's Papers,
I, 47.)

131. GRABO, C.H. Theatres of Elizabeth's London. (Chautauquan, November, 1906.)

*132. GRAVES, T.S. The Court and the London Theatres During the Reign of Elizabeth. Menasha,
Wis., 1913.

*133. ---- A Note on the Swan Theatre. (Modern Philology, IX, 431. See No. 135.)

134. ---- Tricks of Elizabethan Showmen. (Ibid., April, 1915. Deals with The Swan. See No. 133.)

*136. GREENSTREET, J. The Blackfriars Playhouse: Its Antecedents. (The Athenæum, July 17, 1886,
p. 91, January 7, 1888, p. 25.)

*137. ---- Blackfriars Theatre in the Time of Shakespeare. (Ibid., April 7, 1888, p. 445; April
21, 1888, p. 509; August 10, 1889, p. 203. These documents are reprinted by Fleay, No. 111.)

*138. ---- Documents Relating to the Players at the Red Bull, Clerkenwell, and the Cockpit
in Drury Lane, in the Time of James I. (The New Shakspere Society Transactions, 1880-86, p.
489. Also in The Athenæum, February 21, 1885. Reprinted by Fleay, No. 111.)

*139. ---- Drury Lane Theatre in the Reign of James I. (The Athenæum, 1885, February 21, p.
258; August 29, p. 282. Reprinted by Fleay, No. 111.)

*140. ---- The Red Bull Playhouse in the Reign of James I. (The Athenæum, November 28, 1885,
p. 709. Reprinted by Fleay, No. 111; and by Wallace, in completer form, No. 303.)

*141. ---- The Whitefriars Theatre in the Time of Shakespeare. (The New Shakspere Society Transactions,
1887-90, p. 269.)

*142. ---- The Will of Thomas Greene, with Particulars as to the Red Bull. (The Athenæum, August
29, 1885. Reprinted by Fleay, No. 111.)

*143. GREG, W.W. Henslowe's Diary. 2 vols. London, 1904-1908. (See No. 46.)

*144. ---- Henslowe Papers. London, 1907.

---- See also under CHAMBERS, E.K. AND W.W. GREG.

145. GROTE, W. Das London zur Zeit der Königin Elisabeth in deutscher Beleuchtung. (Neueren
Sprachen, XIV, 633.)

*146. (Englische Studien, XVIII, 315. See No. 34.)

*147. HALLIWELL-PHILLIPPS, J.O. A Collection of Ancient Documents Respecting the Office of
the Master of the Revels, and Other Papers Relating to the Early Theatre. London, 1870. (Only
eleven copies printed. The documents, with others, have been reprinted by Adams in No. 4.)

148. ---- Dispute between the Earl of Worcester's Players and the Corporation of Leicester
in 1586. (The Shakespeare Society's Papers, IV, 145.)

149. ---- Illustrations of the Life of Shakespeare. London, 1874. (The material of this book
has been embodied in No. 150.)

*150. ---- Outlines of the Life of Shakespeare. 2 vols. The eleventh edition. London, 1907.
(The page numbers have not been changed since the seventh edition, 1887.)

151. ---- Tarlton's Jests, and News out of Purgatory. London. Printed for The Shakespeare Society,
1844.

152. ---- Two Old Theatres. Views of the Globe and Bear Garden. Privately printed. Brighton, 1884.

153. ---- The Visits of Shakespeare's Company of Actors to the Provincial Cities and Towns
of England, Illustrated by Extracts Gathered from Corporate Records. Privately printed. Brighton,
1887.

*154. HARRISON, WILLIAM. Harrison's Description of England. Edited by F.J. Furnivall. The New
Shakspere Society, London, 1877-78. (Additions by Mrs. C.C. Stopes, The Shakespeare Library,
1908. Edited also by L. Withington, London, 1902.)

155. HASLEWOOD, JOSEPH. Account of the Old London Theatres. (Roxburghe Revels, Edinburgh, 1837,
p. 85. Fifty copies only printed.)

156. HATCHER, O.L. A Book for Shakespeare Plays and Pageants. New York, 1916. ("Theatres," p. 133.)

157. HAZLITT, W.C. Brand's Popular Antiquities of Great Britain. Faiths and Folklore. 2 vols.
London, 1905.

*158. ---- The English Drama and Stage under the Tudor and Stuart Princes, 1543-1664. Printed
for the Roxburghe Library, 1869.

159. HECKETHORN, C.W. Lincoln's Inn Fields, and the Localities Adjacent. London, 1896.

160. HENTZNER, P. Itinerarium Germaniæ; Galliæ; Angliæ; Italiæ. Nüremberg, 1612.

161. HERBERT, J.F. Additions to "The Alleyn Papers." (The Shakespeare Society's Papers, I,
16. See No. 63.)

162. HEYWOOD, T. An Apology for Actors. London, 1612. (London: Reprinted for The Shakespeare
Society, 1841.)

*163. HISTORICAL MANUSCRIPTS COMMISSION. Calendars and Reports. London, 1870-.

164. HITCHCOCK, R. An Historical View of the Irish Stage. 2 vols. Dublin, 1788.

HOPE. See Bear Garden and Hope.

*165. HUBBARD, G. On the Exact Site of the Globe Playhouse of Shakespeare. (Transactions of
the London and Middlesex Archæological Society, New Series, vol. II, part iii, 1912.)

*166. ---- The Site of the Globe Theatre of Shakespeare on Bankside as Shown by Maps of the
Period. (Journal of the Royal Institute of British Architects, London, 1909, Third Series,
XVII, 26.)

167. ---- The Site of the Globe. (Notes and Queries, XII Series, XII, 11, 50, 70, 201, 224.)

168. HUGHSON, D. An Epitome of the Privileges of London, Including Southwark, as Granted by
Royal Charters. London, 1812.

169. ---- Multum in Parvo. The Privileges of Southwark. London, [c. 1818].

170. INGLEBY, C.M. A Complete View of the Shakespeare Controversy. London, 1861. (A discussion
of the inaccuracies and forgeries of J.P. Collier.)

171. JACKSON, R.C. The Site of Shakespeare's Globe Playhouse. (The Athenæum, October 30, 1909,
p. 525.)

*172. JEAFFRESON, J.C. Middlesex County Records. 4 vols. London, 1886-92.

173. JENKINSON, W. The Early Playhouses and the Drama as Referred to in Tudor and Stuart Literature.
(The Contemporary Review, CV, 847.)

174. JUSSERAND, J.J. Les Théâtres de Londres au Temps de Shakespeare. (La Revue de Paris, VI, 713.)

175. ---- A Literary History of the English People From the Renaissance to the Civil War. 2
vols. London, 1906-09. (Vol. II, bk. V, chap. V.)

176. K., L.L. Site of the Globe Theatre (Notes and Queries, XI Series, X, 290, 335.)

*177. KELLY, W. Notices Illustrative of the Drama and Other Popular Amusements. London, 1865.

*178. KEMPE, A.J. The Loseley Manuscripts. London, 1836.

*179. LA FÈVRE DE LA BODERIE, ANTOINE. 5 vols. [Paris], 1750.

180. LAW, E. Cunningham's Extracts from the Revels' Books, 1842. (The Athenæum, 1911, vol.
II, pp. 297, 324, 388; 1912, vol. I, pp. 390, 469. See Nos. 11, 80, 181, 184.)

181. ---- More About Shakespeare "Forgeries." London, 1913. (See Nos. 11, 80, 180, 184.)

182. ---- Shakespeare at Whitehall. (The London Times, October 31, 1910, p. 10.)

183. ---- Shakespeare's Christmas, St. Stephen's Day, 1604. (Ibid., December 26, 1910, p. 10.)

184. ---- Some Supposed Shakespeare Forgeries. London, 1911. (See Nos. 11, 80, 180, 181.)

*185. LAWRENCE, W.J. The Elizabethan Playhouse and Other Studies. Stratford-upon-Avon, 1912.
Second Series, 1913. (I do not record separately the numerous articles by Mr. Lawrence which
appeared first in periodicals, and which are reprinted in these two volumes.)

*186. ---- The Evolution and Influence of the Elizabethan Playhouse. (The Shakespeare Jahrbuch,
XLVII, 18.)

*187. ---- A Forgotten Restoration Playhouse. (Englische Studien, XXXV, 279.)

188. ---- Ireland's First Theatrical Manager. (The Weekly Freeman, St. Patrick's Day Number,
March 11, 1916.)

*189. ---- The Mystery of Lodowick Barry. (The University of North Carolina Studies in Philology,
XIV, 52.)

*190. ---- Restoration Stage Nurseries. LEE, SIR S. A Life of William Shakespeare. New York,
1916. (Chap. VI.)

*192. Letters and Papers, Foreign and Domestic, of the Reign of Henry VIII. London, 1862-1905.
(Calendar of State Papers; see No. 35.)

193. LOGEMAN, H. Johannes de Witt's Visit to the Swan Theatre. (Anglia, XIX, 117. Cf. The Academy,
December 26, 1896. See No. 31, 123, 306.)

194. LONDON TOPOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY. London Topographical Record. London, 1901-.

195. MAAS, H. Äussere Geschichte der Englischen Theatertruppen in dem Zeitraum von 1559 bis
1642. Louvain, 1907.

196. ---- Die Kindertruppen. Göttingen, 1901.

*197. MCAFEE, H. Pepys on the Restoration Stage. New Haven, 1916.

198. MALCOLM, J.P. Anecdotes of the Manners and Customs of London during the Eighteenth Century.
London, 1808.

199.

*200. MALONE, E. The Plays and Poems of William Shakespeare. 21 vols. London, 1821. (The Variorum
edition, edited by Boswell.)

201. MANLY, J.M. The Children of the Chapel Royal and their Masters. (The Cambridge History
of English Literature, vol. VI, chap. xi.)

202. MANNING, O. AND W. BRAY. The History and Antiquities of the County of Surrey. 3 vols.
London, 1804-14.

203. MANTZIUS, K. Engelske Theaterforhold i Shakespeare-tiden. Khvn., 1901. (See No. 204.)

204. ---- A History of Theatrical Art in Ancient and Modern Times. Authorised Translation by
Louise von Cossel. Vol. III, "The Shakespearean Period in England." London, 1904.

205. MARTIN, W. Shakespeare in London. (The London Times, October 8, 1909, p. 10.)

206. ---- The Site of Shakespeare's Globe Playhouse. (The Athenæum, October 9, 1909, p. 425.)

207. ---- The Site of the Globe. (Notes and Queries, XI Series, X, 209, XII, 10, 121, 143, 161.)

*208. ---- The Site of the Globe Playhouse of Shakespeare. (Surrey Archæological Collections,
London, 1910, XXIII, 149. Also separately printed.)

209. MEMBER FROM THE BEGINNING. Accounts of Performances and Revels at Court in the Reign of
Henry VIII. (The Shakespeare Society's Papers, III, 87.)

210. MEYMOTT, W.J. The Manor of Old Paris Garden; an Historical Account of Christ Church, Surrey.
London, 1881. (Printed for private circulation. Inaccurate. See Notes and Queries, VII Series,
III, 241.)

211. MILES, D.H. The Dramatic Museum at Columbia University. (The American Review of Reviews,
XLVI, 67. Illustrations of models of early playhouses. See No. 38, 129.)

212. MILLS, C.A. Shakespeare and the Globe Theatre. (The London Times, April 11, 1914.)

213. Model of the Globe Playhouse. (The Graphic, London, LXXXII, 579; Illustrated London News,
CXXXVI, 423.)

214. MORGAN, A. The Children's Companies. (Shakesperiana, IX, 131.)

215. MURRAY, J.T. English Dramatic Companies in the Towns Outside of London, 1550-1600. (Modern
Philology, II, 539.)

*216. ---- English Dramatic Companies. 2 vols. London, 1910.

217. N., T.C. The Old Bridge at Newington. (Notes and Queries, II Series, XII, 323.)

218. NAIRN, J.A. Boy-Actors under the Tudors and Stuarts. (Transactions of the Royal Society
of Literature, II Series, XXXII, 11.)

*219. NICHOLS, J. The Progresses and Public Processions of Queen Elizabeth. 4 vols. London, 1823.

*220. ---- The Progresses, Processions, and Magnificent Festivities of King James the First.
4 vols. London, 1828.

221. ONIONS, C.T. Shakespeare's England. 2 vols. Oxford, 1916. (Chap. XXIV, "Actors and Acting,"
by Percy Simpson; chap. XXV, "The Playhouse," by William Archer and W.J. Lawrence; chap. XXVII,
section 7, "Bearbaiting, Bull Baiting, and Cockfighting," by Sir Sidney Lee. A popular treatise.)

*222. ORDISH, T.F. Early London Theatres. London, 1894. (For an important review, see E.K.
Chambers in The Academy, August 24, 1895, p. 139.)

*223. ---- London Theatres. (The Antiquary, XI-XVI. "Theatre and Curtain," XI, 89; "Rose,"
XI, 212; "Bear Garden," XI, 243; "Globe," XII, 41; "Elizabethan Stage," XII, 193; "Swan," XII,
245; "Blackfriars," XIV, 22, 55, 108; "Fortune," XIV, 205; "Red Bull," XIV, 236, "Cockpit,"
XV, 93; "Whitefriars," XV, 262; "Salisbury Court," XVI, 244.)

*224. OVERALL, W.H. AND H.C. Analytical Index to the Series of Records Known as the Remembrancia.
Preserved among the Archives of the City of London. 1579-1664. London, 1878. (See No. 55.)

225. OVEREND, G.H. On the Dispute between George Maller, Glazier and Trainer of Players to
Henry VIII, and Thomas Arthur, his Pupil. (The New Shakspere Society's Transactions, 1877-79,
p. 425.)

226. PAGET, A.H. The Elizabethan Playhouses. London, 1891. (Privately printed, 8vo, 14 pp.)

*227. PARTON, J. Some Account of the Hospital and Parish of St. Giles in the Fields, Middlesex.
London, 1822. (Contains parish records relating to the Cockpit in Drury Lane.)

PAUL'S. See Nos. 6, 12, 26, 101, 196, 201, 214, 218, 297.

*228. PEPYS, S. The Diary of Samuel Pepys. Edited by Henry B. Wheatley. 9 vols. London, 1893.

PHOENIX. See Cockpit in Drury Lane.

229. PINKS, W.J. The History of Clerkenwell. Second edition. London, 1880. (The Red Bull Playhouse,
p. 190.)

230. Pleadings in Rastell v. Walton, a Theatrical Lawsuit, temp. Henry VIII. (Arber, An English
Garner, Fifteenth Century Prose and Verse, 1903, p. 305.)

231. PLOMER, H.R. Fortune Playhouse (Notes and Queries, X Series, VI, 107.)

232. POLLOCK, A. The Evolution of the Actor. (The Drama, August and November, 1915, and November,
1916.)

233. PORTER, C. Playing Hamlet as Shakespeare Staged It in 1601. (Ibid., August and November,
1915.)

234. PRYNNE, W. Histriomastix. London, 1633.

235. RANKIN, G. Early London Theatres. (Notes and Queries, IV Series, VI, 306; cf. p. 423.)

RED BULL. See Nos. 4, 91, 107, 126, 138, 139, 140, 142, 147, 197, 223, 228, 229, 234, 303.

Remembrancia. See Nos. 55, 224.

*236. RENDLE, W. The Bankside, Southwark, and the Globe Playhouse. (In Furnivall's edition
of Harrison's Description of England, Part II, Book iii. See No. 121. Deals with the Swan,
Bear Garden, Hope, Rose, and Globe.)

*237. ---- The Globe Playhouse. (Walford's Antiquarian, VIII, 209.)

238. ---- Paris Garden and Christ Church, Blackfriars. (Notes and Queries, VII Series, III,
241, 343, 442.)

239. ---- Philip Henslowe. (The Genealogist, IV, 149.)

*240. ---- The Playhouses at Bankside in the Time of Shakespeare. (The Antiquarian Magazine
and Bibliographer, VII, 207, 274; VIII, 55.)

241. ---- Old Southwark and its People. London, 1878.

242. ---- The Swan Playhouse, Bankside, circa 1596. (Notes and Queries, VII Series, VI, 221.)

*243. RENDLE, W. AND P. NORMAN. The Inns of Old Southwark and Their Associations. London, 1888.

*244. Report of the Royal Commission on Historical Manuscripts. London, 1870-. (See No. 163.)

245. RIMBAULT, E.F. The Old Cheque-Book, or Book of Remembrance, of the Chapel Royal from 1561
to 1744. (The Camden Society, 1872.)

246. ---- Who was "Jack Wilson" the Singer of Shakespeare's Stage? London, 1846. (Cf. The Shakespeare
Society's Papers, II, 33.)

ROSE. See Nos. 24, 46, 63, 64, 67, 143, 144, 161, 222, 223, 236, 239, 240, 241, 257, 263, 300,
302, 304, 316.

*247. RYE, W.B. England as Seen by Foreigners in the Days of Elizabeth and James I. London, 1865.

SALISBURY COURT. See Nos. 4, 7, 19, 72, 86, 91, 99, 119, 147, 197, 223, 228.

248. SCHELLING, F.E. "An Aery of Children, Little Eyases." (The Queen's Progress and Other
Elizabethan Sketches, Boston and New York, 1904, chap. V.)

249. ---- The Elizabethan Theatre. (Lippincott's Monthly Magazine, LXIX, 309.)

Shakespeare's England. See No. 221.

250. SHEPPARD, E. The Old Royal Palace of Whitehall. London and New York, 1902.

251. The Site of the Globe Theatre, Bankside. (The Builder, March 26, 1910, p. 353.)

252. SMITH, W.H. Bacon and Shakespeare. An Inquiry Touching Players, Playhouses, and Play-Writers
in the Days of Elizabeth. London, 1857.

253. SPIERS, W.L. An Autograph Plan by Wren. (The London Topographical Record, 1903. Concerns
Whitehall Palace and the Cockpit.)

State Papers. See Nos. 35, 192.

254. Statutes of the Realm. Record Commission. 9 vols. London, 1810-28.

255. STEPHENSON, H.T. Shakespeare's London. New York, 1905. (Chap. XIV, "The Theatres.")

256. ---- The Study of Shakespeare. New York, 1915. (Chap. III, "The Playhouses.")

*257. STOPES, C.C. Burbage and Shakespeare's Stage. London, 1913.

258. ---- The Burbages and the Transportation of "The Theatre." (The Athenæum, October 16,
1909, p. 470.)

259. ---- Burbage's "Theatre." (The Fortnightly Review, XCII, 149.)

260. ---- Dramatic Records from the Privy Council Register, James I and Charles I. (The Shakespeare
Jahrbuch, XLVIII, 103. See No. 54.)

261. ---- Giles and Christopher Alleyn of Holywell. (Notes and Queries, X Series, XII, 341.)

262. ---- "The Queen's Players" in 1536. (The Athenæum, July 24, 1914.)

263. ---- The Rose and the Swan, 1597. (The Stage, January 6, 1910. The documents here summarized
are printed in full in No. 257 and again in No. 302.)

264. ---- Shakespeare's Environment. London, 1914. (Chapters on William Hunnis, Burbage's "Theatre,"
and The Transportation of Burbage's "Theatre.")

*265. ---- Shakespeare's Fellows and Followers. (The Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XLVI, 92.)

266. ---- The Site of the Globe. (Notes and Queries, XI Series, XI, 447.)

267. ---- "The Theatre." ---- William Hunnis. (The Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XXVII, 200.)

269. ---- William Hunnis. (The Athenæum, March 31, 1900.)

270. ---- William Hunnis and the Revels of the Chapel Royal. Louvain, 1910.

*271. STOW, J. A Survey of London. Edited by C.L. Kingsford. 2 vols. Oxford, 1908.

*272. ---- A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster ... Corrected, Improved, and Very
Much Enlarged ... by John Strype. 2 vols. London, 1720.

*273. ---- Annales, or A Generall Chronicle of England, Continued by Edmund Howes. London, 1631.

274. STRUTT, J. Sports and Pastimes of the People of England. London, 1801.

STRYPE, J. See No. 272.

275. ---- The Anatomy of Abuses. Edited by F.J. Furnivall, for The New Shakspere Society. London,
1877-79. (There is an earlier edition by J.P. Collier, 1870.)

SWAN. See Nos. 9, 31, 46, 123, 133, 135, 144, 193, 210, 214, 222, 223, 236, 238, 240, 241,
242, 257, 263, 302, 306.

276. SYMONDS, J.A. Shakespeare's Predecessors. London, 1883. (Chap. VIII, "Theatres, Playwrights,
Actors, and Playgoers.")

THEATRE, BURBAGE'S. See Nos. 28, 70, 96, 134, 150, 151, 222, 223, 257, 258, 259, 261, 264,
267, 277, 290.

277. The Theater; a Middlesex Sessions Record Touching James Burbage's "Theater." (The Athenæum,
February 12, 1887, p. 233.)

*278. THOMPSON, E.N.S. The Controversy between the Puritans and the Stage. New York, 1903.

279. THORNBURY, G.W. Shakespeare's England. 2 vols. London, 1856. (Vol. II, chap. X, "The Theatre.")

*280. THORNDIKE, A.H. Shakespeare's Theatre. New York, 1916. (Chap. III, "The Playhouses.")

281. TILER, A. The History and Antiquities of St. Saviours. London, 1765.

282. TOMLINS, T.E. A New Document Regarding the Authority of the Master of the Revels. (The
Shakespeare Society's Papers, III, 1. The document is reprinted in No. 103.)

283. ---- The Original Patent for the Nursery of Actors and Actresses in the Reign of Charles
II. (Ibid., III, 162.)

*284. ---- Origin of the Curtain Theatre, and Mistakes Regarding It. (The Shakespeare Society's
Papers, I, 29.)

285. ---- Three New Privy Seals for Players in the Time of Shakespeare. (Ibid., IV, 41.)

286. TYSON, W. Heming's Players at Bristol in the Reign of Henry VIII. (Ibid., III, 13.)

287. Victoria History of London. London, 1909.

*288. WALLACE, C.W. The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars 1597-1603. Lincoln [Nebraska],
1908. (Originally printed in University Studies, University of Nebraska, 1908.)

*289. ---- The Evolution of the English Drama up to Shakespeare, with a History of the First
Blackfriars Theatre. (Schriften der Deutschen Shakespeare-Gesellschaft, Band IV. Berlin, 1912.)

*290. ---- The First London Theatre, Materials for a History. (University Studies, University
of Nebraska, vol. XII. Lincoln, Nebraska, 1913.)

291. ---- Gervase Markham, Dramatist. (The Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XLVI, 345. Cf. J.Q. Adams,
in Modern Philology, X, 426.)

*292. ---- Globe Theatre Apparel. [London.] Privately printed, August, 1909. (For the nature
of the contents see the London Times, November 30, 1909, p. 12; and the Shakespeare Jahrbuch,
XLVI, 239.)

293. ---- Keysar v. Burbage and Others. Privately printed, 1910. (These documents are included
in the author's Shakespeare and his London Associates, No. 297.)

294. ---- A London Pageant of Shakespeare's Time. (The London Times, March 28, 1913.)

295. ---- New Shakespeare Discoveries. (Harper's Monthly Magazine, CXX, 489. See No. 297.)

296. ---- Old Blackfriars Theatre. (The London Times, September 12, 1906; the New York Evening
Post, September 24, 1906.)

*297. ---- Shakespeare and His London Associates as Revealed in Recently Discovered Documents.
(University Studies, University of Nebraska, X, 261.)

298. ---- Shakespeare and the Blackfriars Theatre. (The Century Magazine, September, 1910.
The documents on which this popular article is based may be found in Nos. 289 and 297.)

*299. ---- Shakespeare and the Globe. (The London Times, October 2 and 4, 1909. Deals with
the Osteler-Heminges documents, and the site of the Globe. These documents Mr. Wallace has
privately printed in Advance Sheets from Shakespeare, The Globe, and Blackfriars, The Shakespeare
Head Press, 1909, whence they were printed in the Shakespeare Jahrbuch, XLVI, 235.)

*300. ---- Shakspere's Money Interest in the Globe Theatre. (The Century Magazine, August,
1910. The documents on which this popular article is based may be found in No. 297.)

*302. ---- The Swan Theatre and the Earl of Pembroke's Servants. (Englische Studien, XLIII,
340. See Nos. 257, 263.)

*303. ---- Three London Theatres of Shakespeare's Time. (University Studies, University of
Nebraska, IX, 287.)

*304. WARNER, G.F. Catalogue of the Manuscripts and Muniments of Alleyn's College of God's
Gift at Dulwich. [London], 1881.

305. WHEATLEY, H.B. London, Past and Present.... Based upon the Handbook of London by the late
Peter Cunningham. London and New York, 1891. (See No. 81.)

*306. ---- On a Contemporary Drawing of the Interior of the Swan Theatre, 1596. (The New Shakspere
Society's Transactions, 1887-90, p. 213.)

WHITEFRIARS. See Nos. 5, 6, 7, 19, 43, 60, 61, 86, 141, 144, 189, 196, 201, 214, 218, 223,
239, 287, 293, 297.

*307. WILKINSON, R. Londina Illustrata. 2 vols. London, 1819-25. (The second volume is entitled
Theatrum Illustrata.)

308. WILSON, J.D. Life in Shakespeare's England. Cambridge, 1911. (Chap. VII, "The Theatre.")

*309. ---- The Puritan Attack upon the Stage. (The Cambridge History of English Literature,
vol. VI.)

*310. WINWOOD, R. Memorials of Affairs of State. 3 vols. London, 1725.

311. WOOLF, A.H. Shakespeare and the Old Southwark Playhouses: a Lecture. London, 1903. (20
pp., 8vo, privately printed.)

312. WOTTON, SIR H. Reliquiæ Wottonianæ. London, 1651.

313. WRIGHT, G.R. The English Stage in the Year 1638. (The Journal of the British Archæological
Association, XVI, 275; reprinted in the author's Archæologic and Historic Fragments, London, 1887.)

*314. WRIGHT, J. Historia Histrionica, London, 1699. (Reprinted in Hazlitt's Dodsley, vol. XV.)

315. WRIGHT, T. Queen Elizabeth and Her Times. 2 vols. London, 1838.

*316. YOUNG, W. The History of Dulwich College, with a Life of the Founder, Edward Alleyn,
and an Accurate Transcript of his Diary, 1617-1622. 2 vols. London, 1889. (Edition limited
to 250 copies, privately printed for the author.)

MAPS AND VIEWS OF LONDON

I

CRACE, J.G. A Catalogue of Maps, Plans, and Views of London, Westminster, and Southwark, Collected
and Arranged by Frederick Crace. London, 1878. (This collection of maps is now in the British
Museum. The Catalogue is not always trustworthy.)

GOMME, L. The Story of London Maps. (The Geographical Journal, London, 1908, XXXI, 489, 616.)

MARTIN, W. A Study of Early Map-Views of London. (The Antiquary, London, 1909, XLV, 337, 406.
See also Home Counties Magazine, IX.)

II

VAN DEN WYNGAERDE, A. View of London, Westminster, and Southwark. (The original drawing, made
about 1530, is now preserved in the Sutherland Collection in the Bodleian Library. A reproduction
in three sections will be found in Besant's London in the Time of the Tudors.)

BRAUN, G., AND F. HOGENBERGIUS. Londinum Feracissimi Angliæ Regni Metropolis. (In Civitates
Orbis Terrarum, Cologne, 1572. The map is based on an original, now lost, drawn between 1554
and 1558; see Alfred Marks, The Athenæum, March 31, 1906.)

AGAS, R. Civitas Londinum. (This map, executed about 1570, is based on the same original map,
1554-58, made use of by Braun and Hogenbergius, although Agas has introduced a few changes.
The two earliest copies are in Guildhall, London, and in the Pepysian Library at Cambridge.
The student should be warned against Vertue's reproduction, often met with. The best reproduction
is that by The London Topographical Society, 1905.)

NORDEN, J. London. (In Speculum Britanniæ, an Historical and Chorographical Description of
Middlesex. By the Travaile and View of John Norden. London, 1593. The map was engraved by Pieter
Vanden Keere.)

DELARAM, F. View of London. (In the background of an engraving, made about 1603, representing
King James on horseback.)

HONDIUS, J. London. (A small view of the city set in the large map of "The Kingdome of Great
Britaine and Ireland" printed in John Speed's Theatre of the Empire of Great Britaine, London,
1611. The plate is dated 1610, but the inset view of London seems to have been based on an
earlier view, now lost, representing the city as it was in or before 1605. Apparently the views,
in the Delaram portrait of King James, and on the title-pages of Henry Holland's Her[Greek:
ô]ologia, 1620, and Sir Richard Baker's Chronicle, 1643, were based also on this lost view.)

VISSCHER, C.J. London. (This splendid view was printed in 1616; but it was drawn several years
earlier, and represents the city as it was in or before 1613.)

MERIAN, M. London. (In J.L. Gottfried's Neuwe Archontologia Cosmica, Frankfurt am Mayn, 1638.
Based mainly on Visscher's View, but with additions from some other earlier view not yet identified.)

[RYTHER, A.] The Cittie of London. (This map, erroneously attributed to Ryther in the Catalogue
of the Crace Collection, is often misdated 1604. It was made between 1630 and 1640; see Notes
and Queries, IV Series, IX, 95; VI Series, XII, 361, 393; VII Series, III, 110, 297, 498.)

HOLLAR, W. View of London. (The View is dated 1647; Hollar was in banishment from England between
the years 1643 and 1652. Excellently reproduced by The London Topographical Society, 1907.)

[? HOLLAR, W.] London. (In James Howell's Londinopolis, London, 1657. This view is a poor copy
of Merian's splendid view, 1638. Though generally attributed to Hollar, it is unsigned.)

FAITHORNE, W., AND R. NEWCOURT. An Exact Delineation of the Cities of London and Westminster,
and the Suburbs Thereof. London, 1658. (Reproduced by The London Topographical Society, 1905.)

PORTER, T. Map of London and Westminster. (About 1660. Probably based on the earlier map, 1630-40,
mistakenly ascribed to Ryther. Reproduced by The London Topographical Society, 1898.)

MOORE, J. Map of London, Westminster, and Southwark. (Drawn in 1662. Reproduced by The London
Topographical Society, 1912.)

OGILBY, J., AND W. MORGAN. A Large and Accurate Map of the City of London, 1677. (Reproduced
by The London and Middlesex Archæological Society, 1895, with Ogilby's description of the map,
entitled London Surveyed.)

MORDEN, R., AND P. LEA. London &c. Actually Survey'd, 1682. (Reproduced by The London Topographical
Society, 1904.)

ROCQUE, J. An Exact Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster, the Borough of Southwark....
Begun in 1741, Finished in 1745, and published in 1746. London, 1746. (An excellent reproduction
of this large map is now being issued in parts by The London Topographical Society, 1913-.)

INDEX

Abuses, 116.

Admiral--Prince Henry--1 Palsgrave--3 Prince Charles's Company:
  Admiral's Company, 14, 16, 61 n., 72-73, 153-57, 174-75, 176, 267,
    269, 272, 281-82, 289-90.
  Prince Henry's Company, 88, 282-83, 295.
  Palsgrave's Company, 283-87, 290, 368, 369 n., 375.
  Prince Charles II's Company, 287, 289-90, 303, 375-79, 401.

Æschylus, 398.

Agas, Ralph, 328, 392.

Aglaura, 404.

Albemarle, George Monck, I Duke of, 365, 405.

Albright, V.E., vii.

Alchemist, The, 419.

Alcimedon, 422.

Aldgate, 7, 10.

Alexander and Campaspe, 109, 113.

Alfonso, 232.

Allen, William, 305.

Alleyn, Edward, 57, 72, 85, 86, 133, 140, 150-51, 153, 156, 246, 267-74,
  281-87, 299, 319, 335-36.

Alleyn, Gyles, 30-38, 43, 47, 52, 53, 58-65, 84, 182, 190, 199, 234.

Alleyn, Joan Woodward, ix, 151.

Alleyn, John, 57-58, 72, 73.

Alleyn, Sara. See Gyles Alleyn.

All is True, 251-55. See Henry VIII.

All's Lost by Lust, 309.

Allyn, Sir William, 81.

Alnwick Castle, 173 n.

Amends for Ladies, 346.

Amphitheatre, the projected, 411-17.

Andronicus, 140, 152.

Androwes, George, 313, 314, 315.

Anjou, Duke of, 385.

Anne of Denmark, Queen of England, 300, 353.
  Her players, see under Worcester, Children of the Chapel, and
    Children of Her Majesty's Royal Chamber.

Antonio's Revenge, 112.

Apothecaries, Society of, 191 n.

Architectural Record, The, ix, 395.

Aristophanes, 398.

Armin, Robert, 316.

Arundel and Surrey, Thomas Howard, 2 Earl of, 426, 429, 430.

Arundel's Company, 70, 83.

Arviragus and Philicia, 401.

Ashen-tree Court, 313.

Ashley, Sir Anthony, 322.

Aubrey, John, 78, 364.

Aunay, Josias d', 423.

Bacon, Anthony, 15.

Bacon, Sir Edmund, 320.

Bacon, Francis, 15, 65.

Baker, Michael, 430.

Baker, Sir Richard, 127, 146.

Banks, Jeremiah, 306.

Banks's horse, 13.

Bankside, 28-29, 63, 64, 119 f., 134 f., 142 f., 161 f., 182-83, 185,
  238 f., 267, 326 f.

Banqueting-House at Whitehall, 385-89.

Barclay, Perkins, and Company, 265.

Barry, David Lording, 313, 314-15, 316, 317.

Barry, Lodowick. See David Barry.

Bartholomew Fair, 325 n., 330, 334.

Bath, 71.

Baxter, Richard, 300-01.

Bear Alley, 340, 341.

Bear Garden (First), 15, 119-33, 145, 146, 146 n., 159 n., 167, 182,
  238, 244, 248, 326, 328, 329, 332 n., 336, 416.

Bear Garden (Second). See Hope Playhouse.

Bear Garden Alley, 340, 341.

Bear Garden Glass House, 341 n.

Bear Garden Square, 341.

Beaumont, Francis, 116, 304, 404.

Beaven, William, 293.

Beddingfield, Anne, 294.

Beddingfield, Christopher, 294.

Beecher, Sir William, 230.

Beeston, Christopher, 158, 299-300, 350-58, 374, 421.

Beeston, Mrs. Elizabeth, 362.

Beeston, William, 358-61, 380-83.

Beeston's Boys. See King's and Queen's Company.

Beggar's Bush, 404.

Bell, Hamilton, ix, 395-400.

Bell Inn, 1-17, 67.

Bell Savage Inn, 1-17.

Bermondsey, Monastery of, 161.

Bethelem, 69.

Betterton, Thomas, 366, 406.

Betterton, Mrs. Thomas, 406 n.

Bevis, 133.

Bird, Theophilus, 350 n., 381.

Bird, William, 170, 174.

Bishop, Nicholas, 57.

Bishopsgate Street, 7 f., 67.

Black Book, The, 73 n.

Blackfriars Playhouse (First), 8, 91-110, 113, 183, 194, 201, 202, 204,
  208, 311 n.

Blackfriars Playhouse (Second), 59, 74, 86, 93, 98 n., 116, 117, 118,
  182-233, 250, 256, 260, 261, 311, 312, 317, 319, 320, 324, 343, 350,
  355, 356, 365, 369, 372 n., 373, 402, 403, 404, 428.

Blackfriars Playhouse (Rosseter's). See Rosseter's Blackfriars.

Blagrove, Thomas, 369.

Blagrove, William, 368-72, 374, 424.

Bloody Brother, The, 363.

Blount, Thomas, 122.

Boar's Head Inn, Eastcheap, 7 n.

Boar's Head Inn, Whitechapel, 1-17, 87, 157-58, 159.

Boar's Head Yard, 17.

Bodley, Sir John, 256-57, 262.

Bondman, The, 382.

Bonetti, Rocho, 194-95.

Boone, Colonel, 382.

Bourne, Theophilus, 350 n.

Bouverie Street, 313.

Bowes, Sir Jerome, 184.

Bowman (the actor), 405 n.

Box, Edward, 160.

Bradshaw, Charles, 192.

Braun, G., and F. Hogenbergius, 122.

Brayne, John, 39-58, 72, 78, 83, 144, 234.

Brayne, Mrs. Margaret, 43, 44 n., 54-58.

Brend, Elizabeth, 264.

Brend, Matthew, 257, 262-63.

Brend, Sir Nicholas, 238-39, 249, 256.

Brend, Sir Thomas, 240 n., 249.

Brend, Thomas (the younger), 264.

Bridges Street, 408.

Bristol, 172.

Brockenbury, Richard, 35.

Brome, Richard, 233, 361, 379.

Bromvill, Peter, 176.

Brooke. See Cobham.

Browker, Hugh, 176-77.

Brown, Sir Matthew, 256.

Brown, Rawdon, 279 n.

Browne, Robert, 318.

Bruskett, Thomas, 191, 195.

Bryan, Sir Francis, 184.

Bryan, George, 73.

Buc, Sir George, 321, 325, 343.

Buchell, Arend van, 166.

Buckhurst, Robert, Lord, 311-12, 314.

Bull Inn, 1-17, 67, 294 n.

Burbage, Cuthbert, 39 n., 40, 45 n., 49, 52, 54-65, 74, 84, 198,
  199-200, 223, 224, 234-41, 249, 257, 282.

Burbage, James, 11, 27-59, 65, 66, 67, 70-74, 75, 78, 83, 91, 98 n.,
  144, 161, 182-99, 202, 234.

Burbage, Mrs. James, 56, 57, 63.

Burbage, Richard, 40, 57, 61, 62, 63, 73, 74, 84, 111, 117, 140, 198,
  199, 200-01, 204, 208 n., 215, 218, 223-25, 234-41, 249, 255, 257,
  261, 282, 317, 319, 325.

Burghley, William Cecil, Lord, 14, 20, 69.

Burgram, John, 242-43.

Burnell, Henry, 418.

Burt, Nicholas, 363, 367.

Burt, Thomas, 241-42.

Busino, Orazio, 130, 279.

Bussy D'Ambois, 400, 404.

Buttevant, Viscount, 313 n.

Byron, 220, 316.

C., W., 302.

Cambridge, 67.

Camden, William, 350, 352.

Campaspe, 109, 113.

Campeggio, Cardinal Lorenzo, 186.

Cape, Walter, 55.

Cardinal, The, 406.

Careless Shepherdess, The, 302.

Carew, Thomas, 302, 356.

Carey. See Hunsdon.

Carlell, Lodowick, 404.

Carleton, Mrs. Alice, 260.

Carleton, Sir Dudley, 212 n., 281, 284, 388, 393.

Carter, Lane, 231.

Cartwright, William, 374.

Castle, Tavern, 348 n.

Castlemaine, Lady, 406.

Catherine of Aragon, Queen, 186.

Cawarden, Sir Thomas, 96, 184, 186-90, 193.

Challes, 69-70, 83.

Chalmers, George, 137-38, 428.

Chamberlain, John, 212 n., 252, 260, 281, 284, 388, 392, 393.

Chamberlain's Company. See Strange-Derby, etc., company.

Chambers, E.K., ix, 44 n., 230 n., 247.

Chambers, George, 206.

Chambers, Richard, 206.

Chances, The, 404.

Changes, The, 376-78.

Chapel Royal, 91 f. See also Children of the Chapel.

Chapman, George, 116, 206, 217, 220.

Chappell, John, 206.

Charles I, 227, 231, 301-02, 359, 394, 395, 414, 424.
  His players, see King's and Queen's Company, King's Revels Company,
  Prince Charles's Company, Strange-Derby, etc., Company.

Charles II, 287, 405.
  His players, see under Admiral.

Chasserau, Peter, 75 n., 79.

Cheeke, Sir John, 96, 184, 190.

Chettle, Henry, 158.

Cheyney, Sir Thomas, the Lord Warden, 184, 188.

Children of Blackfriars. See Children of the Chapel, etc.

Children of Her Majesty's (Queen Anne's) Royal Chamber of Bristol, 215 n.

Children of His Majesty's (James I's) Revels (at Whitefriars), 224.

Children of St. Paul's, 91, 108-10, 111-18, 217, 311 n., 319.

Children of the Chapel--1 Queen's Revels--Revels--Whitefriars--2 Queen's
  Revels Company:
  Children of the Chapel (at First Blackfriars), 91-110, 111, 113.
  Children of the Chapel (at Second Blackfriars), 200-15, 237, 249-50.
  1 Children of the Queen's (Anne's) Revels, 215-18, 219, 311.
  Children of the Revels (or of Blackfriars), 218-24, 314 n., 316-17.
  Children of Whitefriars, 318.
  2 Children of the Queen's (Anne's) Revels, 117, 318-21, 324, 342-46.

Children of the Queen's Revels. See under Children of the Chapel, etc.,
  and under Worcester-Queen, etc.

Children of Whitefriars. See under Children of the Chapel, etc.

Children of Windsor Chapel, 91-108, 111, 201.

Cholmley, John, 143-44, 148, 148 n., 234.

Clerkenwell, 78, 88, 301, 294 f.

Clifton, Henry, 205-13.

Clifton, Thomas, 210-13.

Clink, the Liberty of the, 124 f., 135, 142, 145, 161.

Clough, George, 53-54.

Cobham, George Brooke, Lord, 96, 184.

Cobham, Henry Brooke, Lord, 184.

Cobham, William Brooke, Lord, 98, 99, 184, 198, 199, 212 n.

Cockpit-in-Court, 384-409, 420.

Cockpit in Dartmouth Street, 408 n.

Cockpit Playhouse in Drury Lane, 291, 297 n., 299, 300, 305, 348-67,
  369, 373, 376 n., 381 n., 408 n., 421-22, 431.

Cokaine, Sir Aston, 233.

Colefox, Edwin, 34-35.

Collett, John, 256.

Collier, J.P., vii, 76, 138, 230 n., 322 n., 337, 347 n., 353 n.,
  373 n.

Columbia University, 277.

Condell, Henry, 224, 238, 255, 257, 258, 262, 355.

Conspiracy and Tragedy of Charles, Duke of Byron, The, 220, 316.

Constant Maid, The, 419.

Conway, Edward, Lord, 414-17.

Cooke, William, 315.

Cooper, Lane, ix.

Corneille, Pierre, 406 n.

Cornishe, John, 241-42.

Cotton, John, 412-14.

Court Beggar, The, 361.

Coventry, Thomas, 414-17.

Cranydge, James, 13.

Creed, John, 366.

Crew, John, 406.

Cromwell, Oliver, 364, 405.

Cross Keys Inn, 1-17, 68.

Cruelty of the Spaniards in Peru, The, 365.

Cunningham, Peter, 322, 372, 374 n., 407 n.

Cupid and Psyche, 113.

Cupid's Whirligig, 316.

Curtain Court, 79, 90.

Curtain Playhouse, 8, 10, 16, 26, 32 n., 46, 47, 61, 62, 69, 70, 72,
  75-90, 135, 144 n., 155, 159, 167, 172 n., 174, 182, 200, 295,
  296, 297, 298 n., 301, 355.

Curtain Road, 34, 90.

Custom of the Country, The, 404.

Cutwell, 11.

Cynthia's Revels, 209 n.

Daborne, Robert, 318, 324 n., 325.

Dancaster, Thomas, 35.

Daniel, Samuel, 215 n., 216.

Davenant, William, 309, 361-65, 382, 424-31.

Davenant's Projected Theatre, 424-31.

Davenport, Robert, 356.

David, John, 12.

Davies, James, 339.

Day, John (playwright), 158, 220, 315.

Day, John (printer), 411.

Deadman's Place, 264.

Dekker, Thomas, 116, 158, 244, 278, 298, 332 n.

Delaram, F., 128, 146, 248, 248 n.

De Lawne, William, 190.

Derby, Ferdinando Stanley, Earl of, 73, 153.

Derby's Company. See under Strange-Derby, etc.

Devonshire, Charles Blount, Earl of, 216 n.

De Witt, Johannes, 46, 77 n., 146 n., 165-68, 273.

Ditcher, Thomas, 242.

Dixon, Thomas, 412-17.

Doctor Faustus, 73.

Dorchester, Evelyn Pierrepont, Marquis of, 340.

Dorset, Edward Sackville, Earl of, 369-70, 375, 378-80.

Dorset House, 371.

Dotridge, Alice, 35.

Doubtful Heir, The, 289, 419.

Downes, John, 307, 365, 366.

Downton, Thomas, 170, 174, 282.

Dragon, John, 34-35.

Drayton, Michael, 311-17.

Droeshout, Martin, 266.

Drury Lane, 309, 348 f., 420 f.

Dryden, John, 417.

Dublin Theatre, 417-19.

Duchy Chamber, 189 f.

Dudley, Robert, See Leicester.

Duke, John, 158.

Duke's Theatre, 383 n.

Dulwich College, ix, 133, 144 n., 274, 283, 285 n., 286-93.

Dumb Knight, The, 316.

Dun, 178.

Dunstan, James, 350 n.

Du Rocher, R.M., 420 n.

Duryer, Pierre, 422 n.

Dutch Courtesan, The, 196 n.

Earthquake, 82-83.

Eastcheap, 7 n., 122.

East Smithfield, 410 f.

Eastward Hoe, 217.

Eaton, Henry, 308.

Elizabeth, Princess (daughter of James I), 393.
  Her players, see Princess Elizabeth's Company.

Elizabeth, Queen of England, 91, 108, 113-14, 158 n., 171, 212 n.,
  215, 385.
  Her players, see Queen's Company.

Endimion, 114.

England's Joy, 177-78.

English Traveller, The, 277.

Epicharmus, 398.

Epicoene, 319, 405.

Epicurus, 398.

Erasmus, Desiderius, 120.

Essex, 44 n.

Essex, Robert Devereux, Earl of, 13, 216.

Euripides, 398.

Evans, Henry, 107, 110, 192-225.

Evelyn, John, 338, 363, 405 n.

Every Man in His Humour, 85.

Every Man out of his Humour, 246, 247 n.

Fair Favourite, The, 404.

Faithorne, W., 348 n., 392.

Falcon Stairs, 164.

Family of Love, The, 315.

Farrant, Anne, 104-10.

Farrant, Richard, 91-110, 183, 200, 201, 202, 203, 204.

Faunte, William, 133.

Fennor, William, 177 n., 332-34.

Ferrers, Captain, 366.

Ferretti, Francesco, 164.

Ferrys, 173.

Feuillerat, A., 101 n., 186.

Field, John, 125.

Field, Nathaniel, 206, 237, 319, 324 n., 325, 342 n., 346.

Finsbury Field, 28-38, 75, 81, 135, 142, 268, 352.

Fisher, Edward, 381, 383.

Fisher, John, 285 n., 387 n., 396.

Fitz-Stephen, William, 120.

Fleay, F.G., 112, 115, 179 n., 201 n., 311 n., 323, 335 n.,
  350 n., 354 n., 377, 402 n., 416 n.

Flecknoe, Richard, 6, 7, 17, 111, 311 n.

Fleet Street, 231, 314, 424 f.

Fleetwood, William, 20, 46, 69-70, 71.

Fletcher, Dr., 172.

Fletcher, John, 251, 304, 325, 419.

Floridor, Josias, 401, 420-24.

Fortescue, Sir John, 211.

Fortune Playhouse, 45, 85, 88, 156-57, 176, 177 n., 229, 246, 259 n.,
  267-93, 295, 297, 298, 302, 303, 327 n., 333 n., 353 n., 364 n.,
  368, 374, 375, 379, 381 n., 425 n.

Fortunes of Nigel, The, 310 n.

Fowler, Thomas, 172, 410.

Fox, The, 404.

Frederick V, Elector Palatine of Palsgrave, 393.

French Ambassador, 113 n., 220-21, 261, 316.

French players, 401, 420-24.

French Players' Theatre, 420-24.

Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay, 150.

Frith, Sir Richard, 96, 190.

Gabriel. See Spencer.

Gaedertz, Karl T., 167.

Gardiner, William, 34.

Garrard, G., 231, 232.

Gasquine, Susan, 159 n.

Gayton, Edmund, 303.

Gazette, The, 341 n.

General, The, 419.

George Yard, 313.

Gerschow, Frederic, 197, 208.

Gibbon's Tennis-Court Playhouse, 309 n.

Gildersleeve, Virginia C., 320 n.

Giles, Nathaniel, 201-13, 220 n.

Gill, John, 300.

Gill, Richard, 300 n.

Giolito, Gabriel, 411.

Giunti, 411.

Glapthorne, Henry, 369, 423.

Globe Playhouse, 65, 74, 85, 86, 86 n., 88, 112, 128, 146, 146 n.,
  155, 156, 159 n., 176, 180, 200, 209, 210, 214 n., 219 n., 223,
  224, 227, 229, 233 n., 234-66, 267, 274-76, 282, 286, 289 n., 295,
  297, 298, 311 n., 324, 328.

Goad, Christopher, 374.

Godfrey (Master of the Bear Garden), 337.

Godfrey, W.H., 277 n.

Golding Lane, 88, 268 f.

Goodman, Nicholas, 180-81, 336.

Gosson, Stephen, 11, 47, 113.

Goulston Street, 17.

Govell, R., 369 n.

Gower, Edward, 405.

Grabu, M., 408.

Grace Church Street, 7 f., 67, 68.

Grateful Servant, The, 349.

Grave, Thomas, 387.

Graves, T.S., vii, 47 n., 177 n.

Gray, Lady Anne, 184.

Greene, Robert, 150.

Greene, Thomas, 296, 298-99.

Greene's Tu Quoque, 298.

Greenstreet, J., 317.

Greenwich, 384.

Greg, W.W., ix, 73, 148, 159 n., 179 n., 335 n., 377.

Grigges, John, 48.

Grymes, Thomas, 206.

Guildford, Lady Jane, 184.

Gunnell, Richard, 368-72, 374, 375.

Gwalter, William, 285 n.

Gyles, Thomas, 113-15, 206.

Hall, Ralph, 308.

Hamlet (Pre-Shakespearean), 74, 140.

Hamlet (Shakespeare), 208-10, 212 n., 248 n., 261.

Hammon, Thomas, 395.

Hampton Court, 384, 385, 401, 402, 404.

Harberte, Thomas, 81.

Harington, Sir John, 69.

Harper, Sir George, 184.

Harrison, Joan, 34-35.

Harrison, Thomas (Colonel), 304.

Hart, William, 304, 363.

Harvey, Gabriel, 48.

Hathaway, Richard, 158.

Hatton, Sir Christopher (Vice-Chamberlain), 70.

Hatton House, 363.

Haukins, William, 85.

Hawkins, Alexander, 211, 213, 214, 215.

Hayward, John, 411.

Heath, John, 297.

Hector of Germany, The, 89, 321 n.

Heminges, John, 62, 73, 84, 204, 208 n., 223, 224, 235-41, 255, 257,
  258, 261-62, 319, 355.

Heminges, Thomasine, 261.

Henrietta Maria, Queen of England, 232-33, 420-22.
  Her players, see Queen's Company, King's and Queen's Company.

Henry IV, 7 n., 404.

Henry V (not Shakespeare's), 13.

Henry V (Shakespeare), 77 n., 348.

Henry VI, 150.

Henry VIII, 251-55, 391 n.

Henry VIII, 29, 186, 391.

Henry, Prince of Wales, 282-83, 392-93.
  His players, see under Admiral.

Henslowe, Agnes, 283.

Henslowe, Philip, 73, 85, 140, 140 n., 142-60, 161, 166, 174-75, 179,
  213 n., 234, 244-46, 267-74, 281-83, 321-22, 324-35, 342-43, 346.

Henslowe, William, 268 n.

Hentzner, Paul, 131, 162.

Herbert, Sir Henry, 89, 225, 232, 250, 301, 307 n., 351 n., 357 n.,
  358, 359, 360, 360 n., 367, 368, 369, 373, 374, 376, 377, 377 n.,
  378, 380, 381, 400, 401 n., 403, 412 n., 420-24.

Herbert, Sir Philip, 392.

Herbert, Thomas, 81.

Herne, John, 370, 380.

Herne, John (the younger), 380-81.

Heton, Richard, 356 n., 357 n., 378-80, 427.

Heywood, Thomas, 158, 235 n., 247 n., 277 n., 298-99, 382, 394-95.

Hide, John, 51, 53-55, 70 n.

High Street, Southwark, 121.

Hill, John, 50.

Hoby, Sir Edward, 220.

Hoby, Sir Philip, 184.

Hockley-in-the-hole, Clerkenwell, 340.

Hogarth, William, 409 n.

Hog Hath Lost His Pearl, The, 320.

Holinshed, Raphael, 385.

Holland, Aaron, 294-96.

Holland, Henry, 127, 146.

Hollandia, Dona Britannica, 180.

Holland's Leaguer (Goodman), 180, 336.

Holland's Leaguer (Marmion), 259, 375, 377, 415.

Hollar, W., 181, 259, 329-30.

Hollywell Lane, 81.

Holywell Priory, 30 f., 75 f., 88, 182, 183.

Honduis, J., 127, 146, 265, 329 n.

Hope Playhouse, 46, 128, 133, 146 n., 166, 179, 180, 248 n., 322,
  324-41, 346, 355.

Horton, Joan, 143.

Houghton, John, 129.

Housekeepers, 225, 234 n., 236, 237 n., 351 n., 421 n.

Howard, Charles, the Lord Admiral. See Nottingham.

Howell, James, 248, 329 n.

Howes, Edmund, 7, 45 n., 111, 141, 251, 257, 285, 349, 350, 352, 372.
  See also Phillipps.

Humour Out of Breath, 315.

Hungarian Lion, The, 368.

Hunks, Harry, 121.

Hunnis, William, 102-10, 202, 203.

Hunsdon, George Carey, Lord, 184, 189, 198, 199, 212 n., 214.

Hunsdon, Henry Carey, Lord, 14, 68 n., 71, 184.

Hunsdon's Company (not the Strange-Derby, etc. Company), 69-71.

Hunsdon's Company. See under Strange-Derby, etc. Company.

Hutchinson, Christopher, 350 n., 362.

Hynde, John, 11.

Ianthe, 406.

Ibotson, Richard, 11.

Inner Temple Masque, The, 350.

Isle of Dogs, The, 84, 154, 170-75.

Isle of Guls, The, 220.

Italian players, 21.

Jack Drum's Entertainment, 115.

James I, 215, 217, 218, 221, 227, 250, 258, 281, 310 n., 316, 387,
  392, 413, 416.
  His players, see Children of His Majesty's Revels, King's Revels
    Company, Strange-Derby, etc. Company.

James, William, 264.

Jeaffreson, J.C., 85, 410.

Jeffes, Anthony, 174 n.

Jeffes, Humphrey, 174 n.

Jerningham, Sir Henry, 184, 189.

Jew, The, 11.

Jew of Malta, The, 140, 150, 395.

Johnson, Henry, 60.

Johnson, Peter, 191-92, 196.

Johnson, Samuel, 264.

Jones, Inigo, 389, 395-400.

Jones, Richard, 168, 174, 318.

Jones, Robert, 343.

Jonson, Ben, 78, 84, 85, 171-73, 174 n., 206, 207, 217, 226, 244, 246,
  247, 251, 255, 259, 319, 325, 330, 334, 419, 424.

Joyner, William, 194.

Julius Cæsar, 404.

Just Italian, The, 356.

Katherens, Gilbert, 326-30.

Kempe, Anthony, 189.

Kempe, William, 62, 73, 84, 115, 158, 235-40, 298.

Kelly, William, 17.

Kendall, Richard, 177 n., 333 n.

Kendall, Thomas, 213-22.

Kendall, William, 213 n.

Kenningham, Robert, 41.

Keysar, Robert, 117, 218-19, 222-24, 317-20.

Kiechel, Samuel, 47, 77.

Kildare, Earl of, 419.

Killigrew's playhouse, 382.

Kinaston, Edward, 207, 366.

Kingdom's Weekly Intelligencer, The, 291, 293 n.

King Lear, 261.

King Leir, 153.

Kingman, Philip, 343.

King's and Queen's Company (or Beeston's Boys), 357-62.

King's Company. See under Strange-Derby, etc.

King's (James I's) Revels Company, 311-18.

King's (Charles I's) Revels Company, 287, 374, 377-79.

Kingsland Spittle, 89.

Kingston, Lady Mary, 189.

Kingston, Sir William, 184.

Kirkham, Edward, 116, 208 n., 213-22, 226.

Kirkman, Francis, 296-97, 305, 358-59.

Knowles, John, 241-42.

Kymbre, 41.

Kynaston, Edward, 207, 366.

Kyrkham, Sir Robert, 184.

Ladies' Priviledge, The, 423.

Lady Elizabeth's Company. See Princess Elizabeth's Company.

Lady Mother, The, 369.

La Fèvre de la Boderie, Antoine, 220-22, 316 n.

Lamb, Charles, 299.

Lambarde, William, 15.

Lambeth, 121, 161.

Landgartha, 418.

Laneham, Robert, 128.

Langley, Francis, 161, 170-76, 234.

Lanham, John, 67, 69, 80 n.

Lanman, Henry, 78-82, 83, 86, 87, 144, 234.

Lanteri, Edward, 265 n.

Lau, Hurfries de, 423.

Laud, William, 228-30.

Lawrence, W.J., vii, 48 n., 112, 177 n., 293 n., 313 n., 350 n.,
  365 n., 398, 408, 423 n.

Leaden Hall, 12.

Lee, Sir Sidney, 124 n., 294 n., 350 n., 408 n.

Le Febure (or Fevure), 422-23.

Leicester, Robert Dudley, Earl of, 106-07.

Leicester's Company, 22, 66, 67, 71, 80 n.

Lennox, James Stuart, 4 Duke of, 232.

Lennox, Ludovick Stuart, 2 Duke of, 261.

Lenton, Francis, 356.

Leveson, Sir Richard, 405.

Levison, William, 240.

Lewes, Thomas, 382.

Lilleston, Thomas, 366.

Lincoln's Inn Fields, 348 n., 352, 382, 414 f.

Lodge, Thomas, 74.

London's Lamentation for her Sins, 302.

Long, Maurice, 81.

Lorkin, Thomas, 254, 389.

Lost Lady, The, 404.

Loves and Adventures of Clerico and Lozia, The, 359.

Love's Mistress, or the Queen's Masque, 382.

Lowin, John, 158, 363, 400.

Loyal Protestant, The, 339.

Loyal Subject, The, 366.

Ludgate, 7 f., 226.

Ludlow, 71.

Luther, Martin, 113 n., 411.

Lyly, John, 109-10, 112, 113-14, 194, 202.

Machiavel, 411.

Machin, Lewis, 316.

Machyn, Henry, 124 n.

Mackaye, Steele, 398.

Madden, Sir Frederick, 130.

Madison Square Theatre, 398.

Maiden Lane, 88, 144, 243 f., 341.

Malcolm, J.P., 339.

Malone, Edmund, vii, 77, 89, 160 n., 225, 248, 367, 373, 375-76, 420.

Manchester, Edward Montagu, Earl of, 122, 337.

Mankind, 2-4.

Manningham, John, 178.

Mantzius, Karl, 48 n.

Markham, Gervais, 316.

Marlowe, Christopher, 73.

Marmion, Shackerley, 259, 375, 376, 377, 415.

Marston, John, 85 n., 112, 115, 116, 196 n., 216, 217-18, 223.

Martin, William, 265 n.

Martin Marprelate Controversy, 114.

Martin's Month's Mind, 10, 69.

Mason, John, 315, 316.

Masque, The, 369 n.

Massinger, Philip, 325, 382 n.

Mathews, John, 14.

Meade, Jacob, 326-36, 346.

Measure for Measure, 388.

Melise, ou Les Princes Reconnus, La, 420.

Mercer, Will, 338.

Merchant of Dublin, The, 418.

Mercurius Fumigosus, 307 n.

Mercurius Politicus, 292.

Meres, Francis, 175 n., 176.

Merian, M., 146 n., 180 n., 248, 328 n.

Merry, Edward, 192.

Merry Devil of Edmonton, The, 404.

Merry Wives of Windsor, The, 388, 404.

Midas, 112.

Middlesex Street, 17.

Middleton, Thomas, 116, 207, 209 n., 278, 315, 350, 419.

Mohun, Michael, 304.

Monk, General. See Albemarle.

Monkaster. See Mulcaster.

Montmorency, Duke of, 385.

Moore, Mr. (of Pepy's Diary), 405.

Moor Field, 81.

Moor of Venice, The, 367, 387.

More, Sir Christopher, 184.

More, Sir William, 96-110, 113, 184, 189-90, 208.

Morocco Ambassador, 339.

Morris, Isbrand, 241-42.

Motteram, John, 206.

Mountjoy, Lord, 81.

Mulcaster, Richard, 206.

Munday, Anthony, 82.

Murray, J.T., 71, 88, 89 n., 111 n., 286 n., 298 n., 311 n.,
  323, 354 n., 377, 378.

Myles, Ralph, 57.

Myles, Robert, 28 n., 42, 43, 54-58.

Nash, Thomas, 10 n., 69, 84, 114-15, 154, 171-73.

Neuendorf, B., vii.

Neville, Sir Henry, 95-100, 102 n., 184.

Newgate Market, 122.

Newington Butts Playhouse, 73, 134-41, 151, 154.

New Inn Yard, 34, 79.

Newman, John, 107-08.

Nexara, Duke of, 130.

Nicholas, Basilius, 224.

Nightingale Lane, 410-12.

Noble Stranger, The, 373 n.

Norden, John, 128 n., 145.

Northbrooke, John, 76.

Northern Lass, The, 404.

Northup, Clark S., ix.

Nottingham, Charles Howard, Earl of, 155 n., 268-70, 272-73.
  His players, see Admiral.

No Wit, No Help like a Woman's, 419.

Ogilby, John, 294, 417-19.

Ogilby, John, and William Morgan, 294.

Ogilby's Dublin Theatre, 417-19.

Oldcastle, 404.

Opera, 365, 425.

Ordish, T.F., vii, 48 n., 341 n.

Orlando Furioso, 150.

Osteler, William, 225 n., 237, 260.

Othello, 367, 387, 388.

Oxford, Edward de Vere, Earl of, 16, 108-10, 157, 202.

Oxford's Company, 16, 87 n., 157-59.

Palatine. See Frederick V.

Palladio, Andrea, 398.

Pallant, Robert, 158.

Palmyra, 265.

Palsgrave. See Frederick V.

Palsgrave's Company. See under Admiral.

Pappe with an Hatchet, 112.

Paris, Robert de, 122.

Paris Garden. See Bear Garden.

Paris Garden, Manor of, 121 f., 135, 161 f.

Park, The, 241.

Park Street, 265.

Parliament Chamber, 186 f.

Passionate Lovers, The, 404.

Pastorall, The, 401.

Pavy, Salmon (or Salathiel), 206, 207.

Payne, Robert, 215.

Peckam, Edmund, 51-52, 66.

Pembroke, William Herbert, Earl of, 261.

Pembroke and Montgomery, Philip Herbert, Earl of, 232.

Pembroke's Company, 84, 154-55, 157, 170-75.

Penruddoks, Edward, 430.

Pepys, Samuel, 17, 207, 308, 338, 366, 382, 405.

Perfect Account, The, 305.

Perfect Occurrences, 304.

Perkins, Richard, 158, 380.

Perrin, Lady, 184.

Peyton, Sir John, 410.

Phillips, Augustine, 62, 73, 84, 224, 235-41, 260.

Phillipps, Sir Thomas (his copy of Stow's Annals), 233, 258 n., 264,
  285 n., 291, 330 n., 336, 364, 381 n.

Philotas, 216.

Phoenix Playhouse. See Cockpit Playhouse in Drury Lane.

Pierce, Edward, 116, 117, 319-20.

Pierce, James, 382.

Pierce, Mrs. James, 308, 382.

Pierce the Ploughman's Creed, 196.

Piozzi, Hester Lynch, 264.

Pipe Office, 190 n., 197.

Pit Court, 348 n.

Plague, 12, 15, 20, 23, 24, 67 n., 74 n., 152-53, 159, 215, 222, 223,
  224, 281, 282, 287-88, 316, 355, 356, 357, 358, 379.

Playhouse to be Let, 309.

Playhouse Yard, 197.

Plomer, H.R., 293 n.

Poetaster, 1 n., 226.

Pollard, Thomas, 363.

Pope (a scrivener?), 159.

Pope, Alexander, 417.

Pope, Morgan, 159 n.

Pope, Thomas, 62, 73, 84, 86, 159 n., 224, 235-41, 260.

Porter's Hall. See Rosseter's Blackfriars Playhouse.

Portynary, Sir John, 184, 193.

Pride, Thomas, 337.

Prince Charles--2 Red Bull Company:
  Prince Charles I's Company, 17, 88, 89, 179, 300, 301-02, 334-35, 344,
    346, 354-55, 417.
  2 Red Bull Company, 301-04.

Prince Charles's (Charles II's) Company. See under Admiral, etc.

Prince Henry's Company. See under Admiral, etc.

Prince's Arms Inn, 180 n.

Princess Elizabeth's Company, 179, 321, 324, 332-35, 342, 344, 346,
  354 n., 355.

Prynne, William, 302, 310 n., 372 n.

Ptolome, 11.

Puckering, Sir Thomas, 254, 389.

Puddlewharf, 343 f.

Puiseux, M. de, 221 n.

Puritans, 6, 18-19, 29, 85, 126, 156.

Pykman, Phillipp, 206.

Queen Anne's Company. See under Worcester, etc.

Queen's (Elizabeth's) Company, 12, 13, 66-72, 80 n., 84, 153.

Queen's (Henrietta's) Company, 355-56, 379-80, 394, 421, 427.

Queen's Revels. See under Children of the Chapel, etc.

Queen's Street, 348 n.

Raleigh, Sir Walter, 126.

Ram Alley, 313, 316.

Randolph, Thomas, 303, 349.

Rastell, William, 213-22.

Ratcliffe, 352.

Rathgeb, Jacob, 132.

1 Red Bull Company. See under Worcester, etc.

2 Red Bull Company. See under Prince Charles, etc.

Red Bull Playhouse, 75 n., 88, 89, 219 n., 226 n., 287, 294-309,
  311 n., 351, 353, 353 n., 356, 374, 378.

Red Bull Yard, 294.

Redwood, C.W., ix.

Reeve, Ralph, 343.

Rendle, William, 12, 124 n., 143, 178 n., 180 n., 339.

Reulidge, Richard, 8, 310 n.

Revels Office, 94, 96.

Reynolds, G.F., vii.

Rhodes, John, 365, 366.

Richards, Hugh, 36.

Richmond, 402, 404.

Roaring Girl, The, 278.

Roberts, John, 242.

Robinson, James, 205, 213.

Robinson, Richard, 304.

Rochester, John Wilmot, Earl of, 340.

Romeo and Juliet, 85.

Roper, Lactantius, 241-42.

Rosania, 259, 419.

Rose Alley, 144, 160 n.

Rose Playhouse, 16, 16 n., 61 n., 63, 73 n., 75 n., 77 n., 128,
  139, 140, 142-60, 167, 168 n., 174, 179, 182, 238, 248, 265, 267,
  296, 324, 332 n.

Rosseter, Philip, 117, 118, 224, 317-23, 324-25, 330-32, 335, 342-47.

Rosseter's Blackfriars Playhouse, 322, 336, 342-47, 355.

Rossingham, Edmond, 288.

Rowlands, Samuel, 185 n.

Roxalana, 406.

Royal Master, The, 419.

Rump, The, 382.

Russell, Dowager Lady Elizabeth, 199.

Rutland, Edward Manners, Earl of, 36, 36 n., 37.

Rutland House, 364.

Ryther, Augustine, 277.

Sacarson, 121.

Sackful of News, A., 10.

St. Bride's, Parish of, 425 f.

St. Dunstan's, Parish of, 425 f.

St. Giles, Cripplegate, 268 f.

St. Giles in the Fields, 355, 362.

St. James, Palace of, 384, 392.

St. James, Parish of, 294 f.

St. John's Gate, 294.

St. John's Street, 11, 96, 294 f., 305.

St. Mary Overies, 64-65, 168 n., 238.

St. Mildred, Parish of, 143, 159.

St. Patrick for Ireland, 419.

St. Paul's Boys. See Children of St. Paul's.

St. Paul's Cathedral, 29 n., 167.

St. Paul's Playhouse, 8, 111-18, 349.

St. Saviours, Parish of, 145, 170, 259.

St. Warburg's Street, Dublin, 418.

Salisbury, Mr. (portrait painter), 366.

Salisbury, Robert Cecil, Earl of, 221.

Salisbury Court Playhouse, 233, 259, 287, 291, 302, 350, 357 n.,
  360 n., 364, 368-83, 427.

Sampson, M.W., 279 n.

Sandwich, Edward Montagu, Earl of, 405.

Sapho and Phao, 109, 113.

Satiromastix, 332.

Saunders, Lady, 343 f.

Saunders, Sir Thomas, 184.

Savage, Thomas, 240.

Scornful Lady, The, 403, 406.

Scott, Sir Walter, 310 n.

Scuderi, Georges de, 421 n.

Sellers, William, 242.

Shadwell, Thomas, 310 n.

Shakespeare, William, 62, 63, 65, 73, 84, 85, 140, 150, 186, 208-10,
  212 n., 224, 235-41, 249, 251, 261-62, 298, 348, 391 n.

Shanks, John, 263.

Sharp, Lewis, 373 n.

Sharpham, Edward, 316.

Shatterel, Edward, 304-05, 308.

Shaw, Robert, 168, 172-74.

Sherlock, William, 380.

Shirley, James, 259, 349, 376, 377, 406 n., 419.

Shoreditch, 30, 78, 185.

Sibthorpe, Edward, 315.

Siege of Rhodes, The, 364.

Silent Woman, The, 319, 405.

Silver, George, 13 n., 194-95.

Silver, Thomas, 381, 383.

Singer, John, 235 n.

Sir Francis Drake, 364.

Sir Giles Goosecappe, 373.

Skevington, Richard, 172.

Skialetheia, 46, 61.

Slaiter, Martin, 315, 317-18.

Slye, William, 224, 225 n., 235 n., 260.

Smallpiece, Thomas, 108.

Smith, Isack, 366.

Smith, John, 351 n.

Smith, Captain John, 369 n.

Smith, Wentworth, 158.

Smith, William, 63.

Smithfield, 332.

Somerset House, 404.

Sophocles, 398.

Soulas, Josias de, 420-24.

Spanish Ambassador, 281, 339.

Spanish Curate, The, 404.

Spanish Tragedy, The, 150, 261.

Sparagus Garden, The, 379.

Sparks, Thomas, 285 n.

Speed, John, 265.

Spencer, Gabriel, 168, 172-74, 235 n.

Spiller, Sir Henry, 230.

Spykes School, 206.

Squire of Alsatia, The, 310 n.

Stanley, Ferdinando, Lord Strange. See Derby.

Star of the West, 133.

Steevens, George, 77-78.

Stepney Field, 352.

Stettin-Pomerania, Philip Julius, Duke of, 207, 214-15.

Stevens, John, 183.

Stockwood, John, 8, 26, 46, 48.

Stone, George, 121.

Stopes, Charlotte C., 361 n.

Stoughton, Robert, 36.

Stow, John, 124, 136, 166, 348, 388, 391.
  See also Howes, Phillipps, and Strype.

Strafford, Thomas Wentworth, Earl of, 417-18.

Strange, Lord. See Derby.

Strange--Derby--1 Chamberlain--Hunsdon--2 Chamberlain--King James I--King
  Charles I's Company:
  Strange's Company, 14, 139, 150-54.
  Derby's Company, 73, 87 n., 153.
  1 Chamberlain's Company, 14-15, 150, 153-54.
  Hunsdon's Company, 199, 199 n.
  2 Chamberlain's Company, 16, 61, 61 n., 62, 68 n., 73-74, 84, 85,
    150, 154-55, 159 n., 174-75, 176, 200, 209 n., 212 n., 235-38,
    249, 267, 272-73, 351.
  King James I's Company, 88, 118, 223-27, 250-62, 295, 320-21, 324,
    325, 374.
  King Charles I's Company, 227-33, 262-63, 302, 365, 374, 378, 400,
    401, 402.

Street, Peter, 63, 64, 239, 269, 273-74.

Strype, John, 243, 340, 391, 408 n.

Stubbes, Philip, 83, 125.

Stutville, George, 374.

Summer playhouse, 67-68, 225, 250, 321, 324, 325, 342.

Sumner, John, 380.

Sussex's Company, 152.

Swan Inn, 180 n.

Swan Playhouse, 77 n., 84, 154-55, 161-81, 182, 238, 273, 321, 324,
  326, 327, 329, 334, 342-43.

Swanston, Eilliard, 400.

Swinerton, Sir John, 321.

Swynnerton, Thomas, 296.

Taming of a Shrew, The, 140.

Tarbock, John, 318.

Tarleton, Richard, 12, 13, 14 n., 67, 69, 72, 72 n., 235, 298.

Tarlton's Jests, 13.

Tarlton's News out of Purgatory, 69, 75.

Tatham, John, 289, 303 n., 382.

Taylor, John (the Water Poet), 251, 257, 259, 329, 332-34.

Taylor, Joseph, 363, 400.

Taylor, Robert, 320.

Theatre Playhouse, 8, 10, 11 n., 15, 26, 27-74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 83,
  84, 91, 112, 135, 138, 154, 155, 167, 172 n., 182, 199, 200, 234-35,
  239, 244, 249.

Thespis, 398.

Thoresby, Henry, 410.

Thorndike, A.H., vii.

Thrale, Mrs. Henry, 264.

Three Kings Ordinary, 425, 429, 430.

Tilney, Edmund, 66, 85.

Titus Andronicus, 140, 152.

Tomlins, T.E., 76.

Tom Tell Troth's Message, 146.

Tooley, Nicholas, 350 n.

Topclyfe, Richard, 172-73.

Totenham Court, 373.

Toy, The, 419.

Trevell, William, 315.

Trompeur Puni, Le, 421.

Trussell, Alvery, 206.

Tunstall, James, 350 n.

Turk, The, 316.

Turner, 178.

Turner, Anthony, 308, 380.

Turnor, Richard, 50.

Two Maids of Moreclacke, The, 316.

Underwood, John, 86.

Unfortunate Lovers, The, 233, 404.

University of Illinois, 277 n.

Vaghan, Edward, 410.

Valient Cid, The, 406.

Vaughan, Sir William, 125.

Venetian Ambassador, 280.

Vennar, Richard, 177-78, 333 n.

Vere, Lady Susan, 392.

Verneuil, Madame de, 220-21.

Vertue, George, 387 n., 396.

Virgin, performance by a, 74 n.

Visscher, C.J., 127, 128, 146 n., 164-65, 248, 253, 328, 328 n., 329.

Volpone, 404.

Vox Graculi, 89.

Vuolfio, Giovanni. See John Wolf.

Walker, Thomas, 337.

Wallace, C.W., ix, 67, 71, 110 n., 115, 117, 140, 148 n., 160 n.,
  168 n., 170 n., 177 n., 178 n., 179 n., 192 n., 196 n.,
  197, 197 n., 201 n., 204 n., 208, 212 n., 215 n., 221 n.,
  243, 248-49, 258 n., 259 n., 266, 285 n., 353 n.

Walsingham, Sir Francis, 110.

Warburton, John, 369 n.

War of the Theatres, 250.

Warwick, Ambrose Dudley, Earl of, 12.

Water Lane, Blackfriars, 98, 102.

Water Lane, Whitefriars, 371.

Way to Content all Women, or How a Man May Please his Wife, 368-69.

Webster, John, 116, 158, 226 n.

Weekly Account, The, 290.

Weekly Intelligencer, The, 306, 307.

Westcott, Sebastian, 113.

Westminster Cathedral, 126, 167.

Westminster School, 206.

What You Will, 112.

Whitaker, Laurence, 230.

White, Thomas, 48, 76.

Whitechapel, 8 n., 17.

Whitechapel Street, 7.

Whitecross Street, 268 f.

White Devil, The, 226 n.

Whitefriars Playhouse, 8, 117, 224, 310-23, 324, 342-43, 368 n.

Whitehall, 356 n., 374, 384 f., 387-91, 403.

White Hart Inn, 1.

Whitelock, Bulstrode, 305.

Whitton, Tom, 382.

Wigpitt, Thomas, 285 n.

Wilbraham, 172.

Wilbraham, William, 374.

Wilkinson, Nicholas, 350 n.

Wilkinson, R., 259 n., 293 n.

Williams, John, 412-17.

Williamson, Joseph, 306.

Wilson, J.D., 76 n.

Wilson, Robert, 12, 176.

Winchester, Bishop of, 119, 134, 241 n.

Windsor, 384.
  See also Children of Windsor Chapel.

Winter playhouse, 67-68, 225, 233, 250, 321, 324, 325, 342.

Wintershall, William, 308.

Winwood, Sir Ralph, 252, 392.

Wirtemberg, Duke of, 132.

Witch of Edmonton, The, 354 n.

Witt, Johannes de, 77 n., 146 n., 165-68, 273.

Witter, John, 224, 258.

Wit Without Money, 304.

Wolf, John, 410-12.

Wolf's Theatre, 410-12.

Wolsey, Cardinal, 186, 252, 391.

Woman is a Weathercock, A, 140, 342 n.

Wood, Anthony à, 418.

Woode, Tobias, 410.

Woodford, Thomas, 311, 313, 314, 322.

Woodman, 193.

Woodward, 142.

Woodward, Agnes, 142-43, 283.

Woodward Joan, ix, 151.

Worcester College, 395.

Worcester--Queen--1 Red Bull--Children of the Revels Company:
  Worcester's Company, 16, 72, 87, 157-59, 295, 351.
  Queen Anne's Company, 16, 87, 88, 158, 295-300, 351, 353.
  1 Red Bull Company, 300-01.
  Children of the Revels, 301.

Wordsworth, William, 299.

Wotton, Sir Henry, 251, 320.

Wright, George R., 401.

Wright, James, 285, 297, 303, 304, 350, 363, 373.

Wyngaerde, A. van den, 124.

Yarmouth, 45 n.

York House, 391.

Young, John, 374.

Younger Brother, The, 299.

Young Gallant's Whirligig, The, 356.

Zanche, Lord, 184.

