   43 “The sermons preached at conventicles, which are ordinarily
      circulated, are a very unsafe rule by which to judge of the talents
      of the preachers, and the quality of the discourses which they
      actually delivered. We have never been able to ascertain that one of
      these was published during the lifetime of the author, or from notes
      written by himself. They were printed from notes taken by the
      hearers, and we may easily conceive how imperfect and inaccurate
      these must often have been. We have now before us two sermons by Mr.
      Welsh, printed at different times; and upon reading them, no person
      could suppose that they were preached by the same individual.… We
      have no doubt that the memory of Mr. Peden has been injured in the
      same way. The collection of prophecies that goes under his name is
      not authentic; and we have before us some of his letters, which
      place his talents in a very different light from the idea given of
      them in what are called his sermons and his life.” (Review of Sir
      Walter Scott’s Tales of my Landlord written by Dr. McCrie, Christian
      Instructor, vol. xiv. pp. 127, 128)—We are cautioned not to judge of
      the talents of Samuel Rutherford as a preacher “from the sermons
      printed after his death, and of which it is probable he never
      composed a single sentence.” (Murray’s Life of Rutherford pp.
      221-223)—And says Patrick Walker, the simple compiler of the “Life
      and Death of Mr. Daniel Cargill,” “I have seen some of Mr. Cargill’s
      sermons in writ, but I never saw none as he spake them; and I have
      been much pressed to publish them, and other old sermons, which I
      dare not do, upon several considerations; knowing that sermons would
      have past then, and very edifying, which will not pass now, in this
      critic and censorious age, without reflections; not knowing how they
      were taken from their mouth, nor what hands they have come through
      since.” Biographia Presbyteriana, vol. ii. p. 53.

   44 The presbyterian clergy in Scotland were much offended when this
      silly yet mischievous book made its appearance, as they justly
      looked upon it as calculated not only to blacken their reputations,
      but to inflict a serious injury upon religion. (See “A Just and
      Modest Reproof of a pamphlet called The Scotch Presbyterian
      Eloquence,” pp. 36, 38. Edin. 1693.)—No one is more perseveringly
      held up to ridicule in it than the Rev. James Kirkton, whose
      character as a man of talents, and possessing a sound judgment, has
      been since sufficiently vindicated by the publication of his “Secret
      and True History of the Church of Scotland.” Kirkton takes notice of
      the Scotch Presbyterian Eloquence, and informs us that its reputed
      authors were “Mr. Gilbert Crockat and Mr. John Munroe,” adding
      “Truly one would think, a thinking man who reads this piece may
      wonder first, what conscience governs these men, who publish, to
      abuse the world, such stories, which they themselves know to be
      lies, as well as they whom they believe. Next, what wisdom is among
      them, who knew well enough there are thousands of honest people to
      refute their calumnies!” (p. 194)—Provoked by an insulting reference
      to the book under review, an able controversial writer of that
      period says “Thou hast, by the bye, mentioned the Presbyterian
      Eloquence. Every body knows that book to be a forgery out of the
      curates shop. But to give the world a true test both of the
      Presbyterian and the Episcopal eloquence, let us appeal to the
      printed sermons on both sides. Do thou take the printed sermons of
      the Presbyterians, and pick out of them all the ridiculous things
      thou ever canst. And if I don’t make a larger collection of more
      impious and ridiculous things out of the printed sermons of the
      Episcopalians, citing book and page for them, I shall lose the
      cause.” (Curate Calder Whipt, p. 11.)—In such a contest as is here
      proposed, religion must suffer, and truth be sacrificed. Lord
      Woodhouselee therefore, does not hesitate to pronounce both the
      Presbyterian Eloquence Displayed, and the Answer to it, to be
      “equally infamous and disgraceful libels.” Life of Lord Kames, vol.
      i. Append., p. 10.

   45 Granger’s Biog. Hist. of Eng. vol. i. part ii. p. 416. London 1769.

   46 Burnet’s Hist. of his own Times vol. i. p. 280. Oxford 1833.

   47 Life of Professor Wodrow, p. 61.

   48 Analecta, at present printing by Maitland Club, vol. i. pp. 277,
      300. Biog. Presby. vol. i. pp. 236, 237.

   49 Burnets Hist. of his Own Times vol. i. p. 279.

   50 Watts Works vol. v. 350.

   51 P. 213.

   52 Journals and Letters vol. ii. p. 385.

   53 Analecta, vol. iv. p. 171, vol. v. p. 342 MSS in Bib. Ad.

   54 “Their ministers generally brought then about them on the Sunday
      nights where the sermons were talked over, and every one women as
      well as men, were desired to speak their sense and their experience,
      and by these means they had a comprehension of matters of religion,
      greater than I have seen among people of that sort anywhere. The
      preachers went all in one track, of raising observations on points
      of doctrine out of their text, and proving these by reasons, and
      then of applying those, and shewing the use that was to be made of
      such a point of doctrine, both for instruction and terror, for
      exhortation and comfort, for trial of themselves upon it, and for
      furnishing them with proper directions and helps, and this was so
      methodical that the people grew to follow a sermon quite through
      every branch of it.” Barnet’s History of his own Times vol. i. p. 2.

   55 P. 600.

   56 P. 356.

   57 P. 131. See also p. 576.

   58 Gillespie’s Miscellany questions. p. 247. Edin. 1649.

   59 P. 135.

   60 P. 133.

   61 Hist. of his Own Times, vol. i. p. 348.

   62 Mede’s Works, General Preface.

   63 Heber’s Life of Bishop Taylor, p. 171.

   64 Pecock’s Works, vol. i., Life of the Author, p. 22.

   65 Manton’s Sermons, Life of the Author, p. v.

   66 Œuvres De Massillon, tome vi. p. 4; Essai Sur L’Eloquence de la
      Chaire, par le Cardinal Maury, tome ii. p. 231.

   67 Address to the Christian Reader.

   68 Memorial for the Bible Societies in Scotland, p. 91. See also pp.
      30, 90, 112.

   69 P. 5.

   70 Pp. 42, 48.

   71 P. 55.

   72 P. 303.

   73 P. 80.

   74 P. 279.

   75 P. 90.

   76 Pp.  301-303.

   77 P. 74.

   78 P. 36.

   79 P. 46.

   80 P. 165.

   81 P. 216.

   82 P. 76.

   83 P. 248.

   84 P. 657.

   85 P. 619.

   86 P. 217.

   87 [Mr. Robert Macward went to England as the secretary, or amanuensis,
      of the famous Samuel Rutherford, when the latter was appointed one
      of the commissioners to the Westminster Assembly (Murray’s Life of
      Rutherford, p. 233). When mentioning Macward’s institution, as
      Professor of Humanity in the old college of St. Andrews, in April,
      1650, Lamond says of him, that he was previously “servant to Mr. Sam
      Rutherford, m. of St. Andrews” (Diary, p. 16, Edin. 1830). Sir John
      Chiesley was, in the same sense, and at the same period, the servant
      of the celebrated Alexander Henderson, another of the commissioners
      (Kirkton’s Hist. of the Ch. of Scot., note, p. 71). It is justly
      remarked by Dr. M’Crie, when speaking of Richard Bannatyne, who was
      also called the servant of Knox, “that the word servant, or
      servitor, was then used with greater latitude than it is now, and,
      in old writings, often signifies the person whom we call by the more
      honourable name of clerk, secretary, or man-of-business” (Life of
      Knox, p. 349. Sixth edition). Mr. Macward succeeded Mr. Andrew
      Gray as one of the ministers of Glasgow, in the year 1656, chiefly
      through the influence of Principal Gillespie (Baillie’s Letters,
      vol. ii. pp. 406, 407. Cleland’s Annals of Glasgow, vol. i. p. 128).
      A sentence of banishment was unjustly passed upon him for a sermon
      on Amos iii. 2, which he preached in the Tron Church, Glasgow, after
      the Restoration. As to what he said in that sermon regarding the
      conduct of the parliament, Baillie declares, that “all honest men
      did concur with him,” though he disapproves, at the same time, of
      Macward’s “high language,” and blames him, because “he obstinately
      stood to all,” and thereby provoked his persecutors (Letters, pp.
      453, 454). But it appears, from Wodrow (Hist. of the Sufferings of
      the Ch. of Scot., vol. i. p. 213, Glasg. 1829), that when Mr.
      Macward understood that what had given offence was the use he had
      made, in his sermon, of the words “protest” and “dissent,” he did
      not hesitate to explain he did not mean thereby a legal impugning of
      the acts, or authority of parliament, but “a mere ministerial
      testimony” against what he conceived to be sin. Macward retired to
      Holland.

      After repeated applications from Charles the Second, the States
      General, on the 6th of February, 1677, ordered Mr. Macward, and
      other two Scottish exiles, to withdraw from the Seven Provinces of
      the Netherlands (Dr. M’Crie’s Mem. of Veitch and Brysson, p. 367).
      That the States came to this determination with very great
      reluctance, will appear from the following passage in one of Sir
      William Temple’s Letters: “I will only say that the business of the
      three Scotch ministers hath been the hardest piece of negotiation
      that I ever yet entered upon here, both from the particular interest
      of the towns and provinces of Holland, and the general esteem they
      have of Mackand [Macward] being a very quiet and pious man” (Vol. i.
      p. 291). It is creditable to the good feeling, though not certainly
      to the firmness of the States General that at the time they
      determined to require Macward and his two friends to leave the Seven
      Provinces, they voluntarily furnished them with a certificate
      bearing that each of them had lived among them “highly esteemed for
      his probity, submission to the laws, and integrity of manners” (Dr.
      M’Crie’s Mem. of Veitch and Brysson, p. 368). He was afterwards
      permitted to return to Rotterdam, where he had been officiating as
      minister of the Scottish Church at the time he was ordered to remove
      out of the country. He died there in the month of December, 1681.
      Dr. Steven’s “History of the Scottish Church, at Rotterdam”, p.
      336.—Ed.]

   88 [In his very interesting “History of the Scottish Church,
      Rotterdam,” Dr. Steven mentions (p. 72) that Mr. James Koelman was
      deprived of his charge at Sluys in Flanders, for refusing to observe
      the festival days and to comply with the formularies of the Dutch
      church. He appears to have been a very conscientious and pious man.
      Among the Wodrow MSS in the Library of the Faculty of Advocates
      Edinburgh (Vol. ix., Numb. 28) there is a copy of “A Resolution of
      the States of Zeeland anent the suspension of Thomas Pots and
      Bernardus Van Deinse, ministers of Vlissing, because of their
      suffering or causing Jacobus Coelman to preach, together with the
      Placinet (or proclamation) whereby the said Coelman is for ever
      banished out of the province of Zealand, Sept. 21, 1684.” Extract
      out of the Registers of the Noble and Mighty Lords, the States of
      Zeeland, Sept 21, 1684. It is set forth in this paper, that though
      Koelman had been suspended from his office by the States of the Land
      and Earldom of Zealand, in consequence of their “Resolution and
      penal discharge of the 21st of September, 1674, made by reason of
      his perverse opinions, and disobedience to his lawful high
      superiors,” he had notwithstanding “adventured and undertaken to go
      about private exercises within this province and also to preach
      twice publickly within the city Vliesing [Flushing] on Sabbath the
      3d of this instant moneth, September, and so hath rendered himself
      guilty of the punishment contained in our forementioned Resolution,
      and penal discharge, bearing that he should be banished the
      province, so be he happened to hold any publick or private exercises
      there.”

      Mr. Koelman, Mr. Macward and Mr. Brown of Wamphray, were the three
      clergymen who officiated at the ordination of Mr. Richard Cameron in
      the Scottish Church, Rotterdam, previous to his coming to Scotland
      in the beginning of the year 1680 (Biographia Presbyteriana, Vol.
      i., p. 197). It was Richard Cameron, when in the language of one of
      his friends, he was carrying Christ’s standard over the mountains of
      Scotland, who repeated three times that simple and pathetic prayer,
      before he was killed at Airs-moss, Lord, spare the green, and take
      the ripe (Id. p. 203) From a letter written from Holland, 7th
      December, 1685, by Mr. Robert Hamilton of Preston, it may be seen
      how much Mr. Koelman interested himself in the affairs of the
      Scottish refugees (Faithful Contendings Displayed, pp. 203-205, 214,
      215). There is prefixed to a Dutch translation of Binning’s Common
      Principles of the Christian Religion, which was executed and
      published by Koelman at Amsterdam in 1678, a Memoir of the author.
      Koelman acknowledges he had derived all his information respecting
      Binning from a letter which he had received from Mr. Macward,
      through a mutual friend. This letter, or a copy of it, with some
      other of Macward’s MSS., was in the possession of the publisher of
      the duodecimo volume of the sermons of the author, printed at
      Glasgow, 1760 (Preface, pp. iv, xxv). Koelman concludes his Memoir
      of Binning, which contains some excellent pious reflections, but
      almost no facts with which the English reader is not already
      acquainted, with a feeling allusion to his ejection from his charge
      at “Sluys in Vlaanderen.” After this painful separation from his
      flock, besides writing many useful original works, he seems to have
      employed his leisure in translating into his native language some of
      the most esteemed practical writings of foreign divines, such as
      Guthrie’s Great Concern, Rutherford’s Letters, &c. Dr. Steven’s
      Hist. ut supra.—Ed.]

   89 [Adverting to a sermon, which was preached by Mr. Matthew M’Kell, at
      a field meeting in the year 1669, Wodrow says, that he was “a true
      Nathanael, and a very plain dealer” (Hist. of the Suf. of Ch. of
      Scot., vol. ii. p. 127). After having been, on different occasions
      brought before the Privy council, and imprisoned, he was, on the 8th
      of January, 1674, upon his refusing to engage not to preach, ordered
      to confine himself to the parish of Carluke, and security was
      required from him that he would appear before the Council at their
      summons (Id. vol. i. pp. 371, 372, vol. ii. p. 248. See also History
      of Indulgence, p. 36). He died at Edinburgh, in March 1681 (Laws
      Memorialis, p. 183).

      Wodrow does not speak with much confidence, as to the degree of
      propinquity which existed betwixt Mr. Matthew M’Kail minister of
      Bothwell and Mr. Hugh M’Kail, the young licentiate who was executed
      at Edinburgh, 22d Dec, 1666, for being concerned in the insurrection
      at Pentland. But Colonel Wallace, who commanded the insurgents on
      that unfortunate occasion, styles “Mr. Hugh M’Kell son of Mr.
      Matthew M’Kell minister of Bothwell” (Wallace’s Narrative of the
      Rising at Pentland, in Dr M’Crie’s Memoirs of Veitch and Brysson, p.
      430). The unhappy father was allowed to see his son in prison, after
      his sentence. There is an affecting account in Naphtali (pp. 339,
      345) of this mournful interview, and of another which took place on
      the morning of the execution. 1761). It was discovered afterwards, that Burnet, archbishop of
      Glasgow, had in his possession at the time, a letter from the king,
      forbidding any more blood to be shed. But to the disgrace of his
      sacred profession, and of his feelings as a man, “Burnet let the
      execution go on, before he produced his letter, pretending there was
      no council day between”—Burnet’s Hist. of his own Times, vol. ii. p.
      435 Oxford, 1833.—Ed.]

   90 [All accounts agree in stating that Mr. Hugh M’Kail, minister in
      Edinburgh, was uncle to the preacher of the same name who was
      executed. The minister of Bothwell, therefore, instead of being the
      father, must have been the brother of the minister in Edinburgh. In
      the years 1636, and 1637, when Mr. Samuel Rutherford was in
      Aberdeen, according to his own description of himself, “a poor
      Joseph, and prisoner,” with whom his “mother’s children were angry,”
      he wrote several letters to Mr. Hugh M’Kail, in answer to others
      which he received from him (Rutherford’s Letters, pp. 41, 247, 272,
      292 Sixth edition Edin., 1738). The name of Mr. Hugh M’Kail is
      included in the list of ministers who, on the 19th of August 1643,
      were by the General Assembly appointed Commissioners for the
      Visitation of the University of Glasgow (Evidence of Royal
      Commissioners for Visiting the Universities of Scotland, vol. ii. p.
      261, London, 1837). Mr. Hugh M’Kail, minister at Irvine, was
      likewise one of the ministers commissioned by the Assembly, in 1644,
      to visit the church in Ulster (Dr. Reid’s History of the
      Presbyterian Church in Ireland, vol. ii. p. 57). As a further proof
      of the estimation in which he was held by his brethren, when it was
      proposed by the Assembly, in 1648, to recommend to the general
      session of Edinburgh six ministers, that they might choose four from
      these to fill their vacant churches, Mr. Hugh M’Kail was selected to
      be one of the number (Baillie’s Letters, vol. ii. p. 303). He was a
      Resolutioner (Id. p. 387). He died in 1660 (Lamont’s Diary, p. 121)
      The editor of Kirkton’s History of the Church of Scotland for the
      purpose of bringing ridicule upon the presbyterian clergy of that
      day, quotes a passage from the MS. sermons of Mr. Hugh M’Kail. We
      are much mistaken, however, if on reading that passage and after
      making some allowance for an antiquated style, and a certain degree
      of quaintness, one of the characteristics of the age,—the impression
      produced upon the mind of any candid person, who admires strong good
      sense, though presented in a homely dress, is not in a very high
      degree favourable to the character and talents of the author (See
      Kirkton’s History, pp. 227, 228). In the preface to Stevenson’s
      History of the Church and State of Scotland, reference is made to a
      manuscript, having this title, “A true relation of the Prelates
      their practice for introducing the Service book, &c, upon the Church
      of Scotland, and the Subjects, their lawful proceedings in opposing
      the same.” This manuscript, Mr. Stevenson observes, was believed to
      have belonged to “one of the Mr. Mackails, once famous ministers in
      this church”. Some information respecting it will be found in the
      Appendix (pp. 191, 192) to Lord Rothess’ Relation of Proceedings
      concerning the Affairs of the Kirk of Scotland, printed in
      Edinburgh, 1830. for the Bannatyne Club.—Ed.]

   91 [It appears from the dedication prefixed to the “Theses Theologicæ,
      Metaphysicæ, Mathematicæ et Ethicæ, Preside Jacobo Darimplio, Glasg.
      Excudebat Georgius Andersonus, An. Dom. 1646,” that “Hugo Binningus”
      graduated “ad diem 27 Julii, Anno Domini 1646.” Under the ancient
      Statutes of the University, no student was entitled to receive the
      degree of master, till he had reached his twentieth year. But this
      rule was not always strictly adhered to (Report of the Royal
      Commission of Inquiry into the state of the Universities of
      Scotland, appointed in 1830, p. 220). Binning was not nineteen years
      of age at the date of his laureation. His distinguished
      contemporary, Mr. George Gillespie, took his degree in his
      seventeenth year.—Ed.]

   92 [General Monk, who, for the part he took in the restoration of
      Charles the Second, was made Duke of Albemarle, encouraged most
      during the time he was in Scotland the Resolutioners, while
      Cromwell, on the other hand, befriended the Protesters (Life of
      General Monk, by Dr. Gumble, one of his chaplains, who was with Monk
      in Scotland, p. 51, London, 1671). Monk professed to be a
      Presbyterian (“The Mystery and Method of His Majesty’s Happy
      Restoration,” by John Price, D.D., one of the late Duke of
      Albemarle’s chaplains. Baron Masseres, Tracts, pp. 723, 775). “In
      Scotland Mr. Robert Douglas [one of the ministers of Edinburgh] was
      the first so far as I can find, who ventured to propose the king’s
      restoration to General Monk, and that very early. He travelled, it
      is said, incognito in England, and in Scotland engaged
      considerable numbers of noblemen and gentlemen in this project. From
      his own original papers, I find that when Monk returned from his
      first projected march into England, Mr. Douglas met him and engaged
      him again in the attempt”—Wodrow’s Hist. of the Ch. of Scot., vol.
      i. p. 59.—Ed.]

   93 [Physiologia Nova Experimentalis, Lugd. Bat. 1686.—Ed.]

   94 [The Appointment of Mr. James Dalrymple, as one of the Regents of
      the University of Glasgow, took place by “Id Martu 1641” (Annales
      Collegæ). He was then only twenty two years of age. In the year
      1635, a clause was introduced into the oath, which the Regents were
      required to take at their election, binding them to resign their
      situation in the event of their marriage. Accordingly, having
      married in 1643, Mr. Dalrymple vacated his charge, but was
      immediately afterwards re-elected. Sir Walter Scott has said of
      James Dalrymple, that he was “one of the most eminent lawyers that
      ever lived, though the labours of his powerful mind were unhappily
      exercised on a subject so limited as Scottish Jurisprudence, on
      which he has composed an admirable work.” It has been properly
      observed, that during the whole of the seventeenth century, not only
      at Glasgow, but in the other universities of Scotland, “the Regents,
      or Teachers of Philosophy (with very few exceptions), were young men
      who had recently finished their academical studies, and who were
      destined for the church. The course of study which it was their duty
      to conduct, was calculated to form habits of severe application in
      early life, and to give them great facility both in writing and in
      speaking. The universities had the advantage of their services
      during the vigour of life, when they were unencumbered by domestic
      cares, and when they felt how much their reputation and interest
      depended on the exertions which they made. After serving a few years
      (seldom more than eight, or less than four), they generally obtained
      appointments in the church, and thus transferred to another field
      the intellectual industry and aptitude for communicating knowledge,
      by which they had distinguished themselves in the university. It may
      well be conceived that, by stimulating and exemplifying diligence,
      their influence on their brethren in the ministry was not less
      considerable than on the parishioners, who more directly enjoyed the
      benefit of attainments and experience more mature, than can be
      expected from such as have never had access to similar means of
      improvement.” Rep. of Roy. Com. ut. supra, p. 221.—Ed.]

   95 [About the same period Mr. Alexander Jamieson, who was afterwards
      minister of Govan, obtained the appointment of Regent in the
      University of St. Andrews, after engaging in a public disputation.
      The description of what took place on that occasion given by Mr.
      John Lamont of Newton, is not devoid of interest as a picture of the
      times—1649 Apr. 10, 11—“Ther were three younge men that did disputte
      for the vacant regents place in St. Leonard’s Colledge, Mr. David
      Nauee, (formerlie possessing the same, bot now deposed, as is spoken
      before), viz., Mr. Alex Jamesone, ane Edenbroughe man, having for
      his subject, Syllogismus, Mr. William Diledaffe, a Cuper man, his
      subject, Liberum Arbitrium, and Mr. James Weymes, a St. Androus
      man, he having De Anima for his subject. All the tyme they had
      ther speeches, ther heads werre couered, bot when they came to the
      disputte, they were vncouered. Ther werre three of the five
      ministers forsaide present at the disputs, viz., Mr. Alexander
      Moncriefe, Mr. Walt. Greige, and Mr. Ja. Sharpe [afterwards
      archbishop of St. Andrews], wha had decisive voices in the electione
      of a Regent (thir werre the first ministers that ever had voice in
      the electione of a measter to ane of the colledges there, the
      custome formerlie, and of olde, was, that every colledge had
      libertie to chose thir owne measters) For Mr. Ja. Weymes he was the
      warst of the three, for in the disputs, he bracke Priscian’s head
      verry often, for Mr. Alex. James and Mr. Wil. Diled they werre
      judged pares by the wholle meitting, so that after longe debeatte,
      they werre forcet to cast lotts, and the lott fell upon Mr. Alex
      Jamesone wha did succeide to the forsaide vacant regents place. Mr.
      Wil. Diled got a promise (bot with difficultie) of the next vacant
      place. Mr. Ro. Noue, professor of Humanitie in the said colledge,
      had no voice in the forsaide electione because, he was not present
      at all the meittings of the disputs.”—(Lamont’s Diary, p. 4, Edin.
      1830)

      The last instance of a public competition for a chair in the
      University of Glasgow, occurred towards the close of the seventeenth
      century soon after the Revolution. It is remarkable enough that in
      this case also, the result was ultimately determined by lot. “A
      programme was immediately published, and on the day appointed no
      less than nine candidates appeared to enter the lists in a
      comparative trial. All of them acquitted themselves so well during
      the whole course of a long trial that the electors were at a loss
      whom to choose. Setting aside some of the nine who were thought less
      deserving, they could not find a ground of preference among the
      rest. It was therefore resolved, after prayer to God, to commit the
      choice to lot. The lot fell upon Mr. John Law, and a present of five
      pounds stirling was given to each of the other candidates. One of
      the competitors was Mr. William Jamieson, a blind man known to the
      learned world by his writings. He was after some years chosen to
      give public lectures in the college upon Ecclesiastical History for
      which he had a pension from the Crown till his death.”—MS. History
      of the University of Glasgow, written by Dr. Thomas Reid, formerly
      Professor of Moral Philosophy.—Ed.]

   96 [The day of his election was “iiij Cal. Nov 1646 (Annal. Colleg.)”
      The Nova Erectio or foundation charter, granted to the University
      of Glasgow 13th July, 1577, in the minority of James VI, made
      provision for the appointment of three Regents, or Professors, along
      with the Principal. The first Regent was required to teach Rhetoric
      and Greek, the second Logic, Ethics, and the principles of
      Arithmetic and Geometry, and the third, who was also sub principal,
      Physiology, Geography, Astrology, and Chronology (See Copy of the
      Nova Erectio in Evidence for University Commissioners for Scotland
      vol. 8. p. 241 London, 1837). In the year 1581, the Archbishop of
      Glasgow gifted to the University the customs of the city, which
      enabled them to establish the office of a fourth Regent, to whom was
      allotted exclusively the teaching of Greek, and, sometime previous
      to the year 1637, a fifth Regent was chosen, who was Professor of
      Humanity, “humanitarum literarum” (Old Stat. Acc. of Scot., vol xxi.
      Append. pp 24, 25). This professorship however, was not permanently
      established till the year 1706 (Rep. of Roy. Com. appointed in 1830,
      p. 241). By the foundation-charter the Regents were restricted to
      particular professions, or departments of academical instruction,
      that they might be found better qualified for the discharge of their
      different functions (ut adolescentes qui gradatim ascendunt, dignium
      suis studus et ingenuus præceptorem repettre queant). But this
      practice, as will be seen from the following minute of a University
      Commission, was changed in the year 1642. “The Visitat on after
      tryall, taking to consideration that everie Regent within the
      Colledge has beine accustomed hithertills to continue for more years
      togithere, in and on the same professione so that the schollers of
      one and the self-same class are necessitat yearlye to change theire
      masters, have found it more profitable and expedient, that the
      present course of teaching the schollers be altered, and that everie
      master educate his own schollers through all the foure classes,
      quhalk is appointed to begin presentlie thus that the classes, which
      are taken up with the masters the zeir they go on with them, so that
      Mr. David Munro having the Magistrand [or oldest] classe now, he
      take the Bejane classe [or the youngest students, the Bejani,
      derived from the French word bejaune, a novice] the next zeir.”
      (Sessio 2da, September 17. Evid. for Univ. Com. ut supra p.
      260). This new mode of instruction continued to be followed till the
      year 1727, when the old system enjoined in the foundation charter
      was revived (Rep. of Roy. Com. ut supra p. 223). It is said that Dr.
      Thomas Rand, the celebrated philosopher, was an advocate of the
      system of ambulatory professors, which was adhered to in Kings
      College, Aberdeen down to the beginning of the present century (Old
      Stat Acc. of Scot., vol. xxi. Append., p. 83). The first class that
      Binning taught was the class of the Bejani (Wodrow’s Analecta,
      vol. i, p. 338. MSS in Bib. Ad.). He and the other Regents were all
      styled “Professors of Philosophy.” Appendix to Spottiswood’s Hist.
      of Ch. of Scot., p. 22, London, 1777.—Ed.]

   97 [It was the custom of the Regents to dictate, to the students
      their observations on such parts of the writings of Aristotle,
      Porphyry, and others, as were read in their classes. This was done
      in Latin which was the only language allowed to be used by the
      students even in their common conversation. At a meeting of
      commissioners from the different universities of Scotland, which was
      held at Edinburgh on the 24th of July, 1648, one of the resolutions
      agreed upon, was to this effect—“Because the diting [dictating] of
      long notes has in time past proved a hindrance, not only to
      necessary studies, but also to a knowledge of the text itself, and
      to the examination of such things as are taught, it is therefore
      seriously recommended by the commissioners to the dean and faculty
      of arts that the regents spend not so much time in diting of their
      notes, that no new lesson be taught till the former be examined.”
      (Bower’s History of the University of Edinburgh, vol. i. p. 244).
      Binning, it is said, “dictated all his notes off hand” (Wodrow’s
      Analecta, vol. i. p. 338. MS in Bib. Ad.) Had he lived it was
      thought “he had been one of the greatest schoolmen of his time.”—Id.
      vol. v. p. 342.—Ed.]

   98 [Long after the publication of the Novum Organum of Lord Bacon and
      even after the successful application of his principles by Sir Isaac
      Newton and Locke, the logic and metaphysics of Aristotle continued
      to occupy the chief place, in the course of instruction, in the most
      celebrated universities of Europe. The first great reform, in the
      mode of teaching philosophy, introduced into the college of Glasgow,
      was effected through a royal visitation, which took place in 1727.
      “The improvements in this university,” says Professor Jardine,
      arising from the regulations introduced by the royal visitation,
      were greatly promoted by the appointment, which took place shortly
      afterwards of more than one professor of singular zeal and ability.
      The first of these was Dr. Francis Hutcheson. This celebrated
      philosopher, whose mind was stored with the rarest gifts of
      learning, illustrated, with a copious and splendid eloquence, the
      amiable system of morality which is still associated with his name,
      producing thus the happiest effects not only on his own students but
      also on his colleagues, and infusing at once a more liberal spirit,
      and a greater degree of industry, into all the departments of
      teaching. Great obstacles, however, still remained. The professor of
      the first philosophy class according to the practice of the times
      continued to deliver his lectures in the Latin language, a method of
      instruction which, although it must long have proved a great
      impediment to the ready communication of knowledge on the part of
      the teacher, and to the reception of it on the part of the pupil,
      was not discontinued in this college, till upon the following
      occasion.

      In the year 1750 Adam Smith was appointed professor of logic and,
      being rather unexpectedly called to discharge the duties of his
      office he found it necessary to read to his pupils in the English
      language, a course of lectures on rhetoric and belles lettres, which
      he had formerly delivered in Edinburgh. It was only during one
      session however, that he gave these lectures, for at the end of it,
      he was elected professor of moral philosophy and it was on the
      occasion of this vacancy in the logic chair that Edmund Burke whose
      genius led him afterwards to shine in a more exalted sphere was
      thought of, by some of the electors, as a proper person to fill it.
      He did not, however, actually come forwurd as a candidate, and the
      gentleman who was appointed to succeed Dr. Smith, without
      introducing any change as to the subjects formerly taught in the
      logic class, followed the example of his illustrious predecessor in
      giving his prelections in English.—Outlines of Philosophical
      Education Illustrated by the Method of Teaching the Logic class in
      the University of Glasgow, pp. 20-21, Glasgow 182.—Ed.]

   99 [The office of principal of the University of Glasgow was disjoined
      from the cure of the parish of Govan, in 1621, and the immediate
      predecessor of Binning was Mr. William Wilkie, who was deposed by
      the synod on the 29th of April, 1649. “Mr. William Wilkie, I
      thought,” says Principal Baillie “was unjustly put out of Govan,
      albeit his very evil carriage since, has declared more of his sins.”
      (MS Letters, vol. iii., p. 849, in Bib. Col. Glas.)

      There are certain extracts from the letters of Mr. William Wilkie to
      Dr. Balcanqubal, dean of Rochester, published in Lord Hailes’s
      Memorials and Letters (vol. ii pp. 47, 48). The learned judge,
      however, has mistaken the name Wilkie for Willie. Not knowing,
      therefore, who the writer of the letter was, he says, in a note,
      “This Willie appears to have been a sort of ecclesiastical spy
      employed by Balcanqubal the great confident of Charles I. in every
      thing relating to Scotland” (Ibid.). In his preface, Lord Hailes
      acknowledges that the letters he has published were “chiefly
      transcribed from the manuscripts, amassed with indefatigable
      industry by the late Mr. Robert Wodrow.” But Wodrow himself states,
      in his Life of Dr. Strang (Wodrow MSS, vol. xiii, pp. 4, 5, in Bib.
      Coll. Glasg.), that he was possessed of six original letters, which
      had been written by Mr. William Wilkie, minister of Govan, during
      the sitting of the famous Glasgow Assembly in 1638, and addressed to
      Dr. Balcanqubal, who had come down to Scotland with the Marquis of
      Hamilton, the Lord Commissioner, and was then residing in Hamilton
      palace. He also informs us that these and some other letters were
      discovered “after Naseby encounter, or some other, where Dr.
      Balcanqubal happened to be, in a trunk found among the baggage,
      which fell into the hands of the parliament’s army.” Wilkie’s
      letters contained an account of the proceedings of the Assembly,
      Wodrow says, not very favourable to the majority there. And he then
      adds it was “from these and such other informations upon the one
      side, Doctor Balcanqubal drew up The Large Declaration, under the
      Kings name, in 1642.” At the time of the Glasgow Assembly, Mr.
      William Wilkie was one of the regents of the university.

      Since this was written, Wilkie’s letters have been printed, without
      abridgment in the Appendix to vol. of a new edition of Ballie’s
      Letters, published at Edinburgh by the Bannatyne club.

      “The originals of all these letters are contained in folio vol. xxv.
      of the Wodrow manuscripts, which is now preserved among the Archives
      of the Church of Scotland.”—Id. p. 481.—Ed.]

  100 [The estate of Trochrigg which is one of the largest in the parish
      of Girvan, in the county of Ayr, is now the property of John
      Hutchieson Fergusson Esq. It was sold by the descendants of the
      ancient proprietors about the year 1782. It was to his paternal
      residence at Brodrigg that Principal Boyd retired with his family in
      1621, when he resigned his office as Principal of the University of
      Glasgow, and it was in this retreat he wrote the Latin poem
      entitled, Ad Christum Servatorem Hecatombe. This beautiful poem
      has been justly described to be, cannon totius fere Christianæ
      Religionis, seu evangeli æ doctrinæ medullam, vel compendium verius,
      cultissians dul tissimisque versibus, ex intimoque Latio petitis,
      stropbarum Sopphicarum centuria lectori ob oculos proponens, “a song
      embracing almost the whole of the Christian religion, or placing
      before the eyes of the reader in a hundred Sapphic stanzas, the
      marrow, or rather a compend of evangelical doctrine, in the most
      polished and mellifluent verses and in language taken from that of
      the Augustan age.” (Poet. Scot. Musa. Sacræ, p. 198, præfætio, vol.
      vi., Edin., 1739. Life of Boyd, Wodrow MSS., vol. xv. p. 123 in Bib.
      Coll. Glas.).

      The commentary on the Epistle to the Ephesians (Roberts Bodn, A
      frocheregia Scoti, In Epistolam ad Ephesios Prælectiones, fol. pp.
      1236. London, 1652) contains the substance of the Lectures, which
      Boyd delivered, when he was a professor of theology in the
      University of Saumur. This is attested by his cousin Mr. Zachary
      Boyd, who was one of the Regents at Saumur, and attended the
      delivery of them (harum prelectionum assidutis tuit auditor). Some
      time after the death of the learned and pious author, a copy of the
      Prælectiones was transmitted to Holland to his friend Andreas
      Rivetus, that he might superintend the printing of it. As Chouet, a
      well known Genevese printer, happened to be in Holland at the time,
      Rivetus parted with the manuscripts to him, that they might be put
      to press immediately on his return to Switzerland. But,
      unfortunately, the vessel in which the manuscripts were shipped was
      taken by another vessel from Dunkirk, and having thus fallen into
      the hands of some Jesuits they never could be recovered. Rivetus
      consoled himself with the reflection that the original manuscripts,
      in the author’s own hand writing, were safe in Scotland in the
      keeping of the family. The church and the nation, however, being at
      this period in such a distracted state, the work was not given to
      the world till the year 1652, when it was published by the London
      Stationers Company, (Andrea Riveti Epistoli de vita, scriptis,
      moribus, et feliei exitu Roberti Bodn, ante Prelectiones Bodn)
      though the General Assembly had passed numerous acts, and entered
      into arrangements with different printers for the purpose. See Index
      of Unprinted Acts for the years 1645, 1646 and 1647.—Ed.]

  101 [When the Presbytery of Glasgow had met on the 22d August 1649, “The
      parochineris of Govane gave in ane supplicatione shewing that
      whereas you are destitute of ane minister, and being certanelie
      informed of the qualifications of Mr. Hew Binnen, one of ye regents
      of ye colledge of Glasgow, for ye work of ye ministrie,” they were
      unanimously desirous he should be sent to preach to them, “so soone
      as he shall have past his tryels.” The presbytery, in consequence of
      this supplication, “ordaines Mr. Patrik Gillespie, moderator of the
      presbyterie to wrytt to ye said Mr. Hew, to acquaint him wt the
      desyre of the parochineris of Govane, and to repar to the presbytery
      to undertake his tryels for ye effect forsaid.” Records of the
      Presbytery of Glasgow.

      On the 5th September, 1649, “Mr. Robert Ramsay reported Mr. Hew
      Binnen had exercised on the text prescribed, and had geven the
      brethrene full satisfaction. He is ordained to handle the
      contraversie scientia media, and to give in theses thereupon.” Id.

      “Sept 19, 1649—The qlk daye Mr. Hew Binnen gave in theses upon the
      contraversie prescribed unto him, de scientia media, to be sustenit
      by him, he presbyterie appoint him to handle this contraversie this
      daye eight dayes at nyne houres.” Id.

      “Sept 26, 1649—The qlk daye Mr. Hew Binnen made his Latin lesson, de
      scientia media, and sustenit the disputt thairupon, and was approven
      in both. The following ministers were present, Mr. Patrik Gillespie,
      Mr. David Dicksone, Doctor Jhone Strang, Mr. Zach. Boyde, Mr. George
      Young, Mr. Hew Blair, Mr. Gab. Conyngham, Mr. David Benett, Mr.
      Matthew Mackill. Mr. Wm. Young, Mr. Arch. Dennestoune, Mr. Jhone
      Carstaires, Mr. James Hamilton.” The presbytery “ordaines Mr. Hugh
      Binnen to make ye exercise this daye fyfteen dayes, and the rest of
      his tryels to be ye said day.” Id.

      On the 10th October, 1649, after Mr. Hugh had “exercised”—“compeared
      the laird of Pollok and the parochineris of Govane, and desyred that
      Mr. Hew Binnen might preach to them the next Lordis daye, qlk was
      granted, and he ordained to go and preach yr.” Id.

      On the 24th Oct., 1649, “Compeared the parochineris of Govane, and
      gave in ane call to have Mr. Hew Binnen to be their minister.” Id.

      “December 19, 1649—The qlk day Mr. Hew Binnen handled the
      contraversie, de satisfactione Christi, and sustenit the disputt
      upon the theses given in be him, and was approven.” Id.

      On the 2d January, 1650, his admission to the ministerial charge of
      the parish of Govan is appointed to take place “next Fryday.” The
      minister who presided on that occasion was Mr. David Dickson, who
      was one of the professors of Theology in the University of Glasgow.
      Id.—Ed.]

  102 [Dr. John Strang, who was the son of Mr. William Strang, minister of
      Irvine, was born in the year 1584. He studied at the University of
      St. Andrews, where he took the degree of master at sixteen. After
      having been a regent in St. Leonard’s college for several years, he
      was ordained in 1614, minister of Errol, in the Presbytery of Perth.
      When Cameron le grand, as he was called, (Vide Bayle’s Dict. Art.
      Cameron) resigned his situation as principal of the University of
      Glasgow, Dr. Strong succeeded him. He died at Edinburgh, on the 20th
      of June, 1654, in the seventieth year of his age and was buried near
      his distinguished predecessor, Principal Boyd. At his death, an old
      friend and very learned man, Andreas Rawinæus octogenarius,
      composed some Latin verses, as an affectionate tribute to his
      memory. These may be seen in a short Life of Dr. Strang which was
      written by Baillie and prefixed to Dr. Strang’s work, De
      Interpretatione et Perfectione Scripturæ, Rotterodami, 1663. It is
      from this Life the preceding particulars respecting the learned
      author have been taken.

      It appears to have been chiefly through the influence of Archbishop
      Law, who was his cousin, that Dr. Strang was made principal of the
      University of Glasgow. When the latter understood that
      Trocheregius wished to be reinstated in his office, a
      correspondence took place betwixt them, which is in the highest
      degree honourable to the feelings and character of Dr. Strang. This
      correspondence is inserted by Wodrow in his Life of Robert Boyd of
      Trochrig (Wodrow MSS. vol. xv. pp. 99-104 in Bib. coll. Glasg.).
      Butler represents Dr. Strang to have been an acute philosopher, and
      second to none in the kingdom as a disputant (nullique ad hunc usque
      diem, in nostra gente, hac in parte secundus. Vita Autoris, ut
      supra.) The strongly expressed commendation of such a man was no
      mean compliment to Binning’s talents and learning. Wodrow says he
      was told by a neighbouring clergyman, Mr. Patrick Simson, minister
      of Renfrew, who was ordained the same year that Binning died, and
      who lived for some years after the commencement of the following
      century, “yt qn they were seeking to get old principal Strang out of
      the colledge, ye principal said, ‘Ye are seeking to get me out of my
      place, qm have ye to fill my room? I know none, unless it be a young
      man newly come out of the school, viz., Mr. Hugh Binning’ ”
      (Analecta, vol. iv. p. 171. MSS in Bib. Ad.)—The Presbytery Records
      show that the common head which was presented to Binning was not,
      De concursu, &c, but one closely allied to it: De scientia
      media.—Ed.]

  103 [See his epitaph, p. 1.—Ed.]

  104 [Her name was Mary, or Maria Simpson. The inventory of the
      effects of “Mr. Hew Binning, at Govane, deceiasit in ye monith of
      Sept. 1658,” is given up “be Marie Sympsone, his relict, and onlie
      exerix dative.” (Com. Rec. Glasg.). Towards the close of her life,
      Mrs. Binning became connected with the Society people. She seems to
      have corresponded with the Rev. James Renwick, one of their
      ministers, who, in a letter dated July 9, 1685, speaks of her as
      “like to die in prison,” and in another, of her having “gone to
      Ireland” (Renwick’s Letters, pp. 104, 179). Howie of Lochgoin, the
      author of “Lives of the Scots Worthies,” assures us that it is Mrs.
      Binning who is alluded to by Renwick in his Letters pp. 49, 104. He
      likewise quotes part of a letter written to her in 1692 by Sir
      Robert Hamilton of Preston, who commanded the army of the
      Covenanters at the battle of Bothwell bridge (Shields’ Faithful
      Contendings, pp. 486, 487). In a catalogue of the manuscripts of the
      Rev. Robert Wodrow, minister of Eastwood, which is in the library of
      the Faculty of Advocates vol. xxiv. folio is stated to contain “50
      letters from Mrs. Binning to Mr. Ham.” It is not known where this
      volume is now to be found.—Ed.]

  105 [“The Rev. James Simpson was chaplain to the Lord Sinclair’s
      regiment. He appears to have settled in the charge of a congregation
      in Ulster, perhaps at Newry, which was the headquarters of his
      regiment for several years—He was still in his charge in Ireland in
      1650 in which year the Rev. Hugh Binning, minister of Govan, was
      married to his daughter.” Dr. Reid’s History of the Presbyterian
      Church in Ireland, vol. i. pp. 369, 370.—Ed.]

  106 [What Koelman says is this that the adjoining parish to which he and
      his friends went was the one in which after sermon, the marriage
      ceremony was to be performed. Mrs. Binning it is probable was
      residing there at the time.—Ed.]

  107 [His eloquence procured for him, according to Macward, the name of
      the Scots Cicero. Along with a distinct articulation be possessed
      great fluency. When he preached in Glasgow, which being the minister
      of a neighbouring parish was frequently the case, he was much
      admired and followed (Koelman’s “Het Leven en Sterven van Mr. Hugo
      Binning” prefixed to his translation of Binning’s Common Principles
      of the Christian Religion). With regard to the estimation in which
      as a preacher, he was held in his own parish, his mode of preaching
      being so completely different from what they had been accustomed to,
      it is said “he was more valued by Govan people after his death, than
      when alive.” Analecta, vol. i. p. 338, MSS in Bib. Ad.—Ed.]

  108 [The writer of “A Short Account of the Life and Writings of Mr. Hugh
      Binning,” prefixed to the small volume of his sermons, published for
      the first time in 1760, remarks “By the haranguing way I suppose
      he means those sermons that are not divided or sub-divided into
      dominant observations and heads, marked by the numbers 1, 2, 3, &c.
      But the reader will see many of these discourses, where there are no
      figures, no first, second, third, or any number of heads mentioned,
      as regularly divided or sub-divided, as those sermons where we will
      see a good number of doctrines and heads.… Some useful sermons have
      been often perplexed with a great multitude of minds consisting of
      two or three sentences without any proof or illustrations of which
      the hearer or reader will remember or retain less than some sermons
      that contain five or six heads, or have not their distinct divisions
      marked with different figures or faces;” pp. xxii-xxiii.—Ed.]

  109 [It being “the perfection of art to conceal art.”—Ed.]

  110 [Mr. James Durham, minister of the Inner High church, Glasgow, was
      the son and heir of John Durham of Easter Powrie, now named
      Wedderburn, a considerable estate in the parish of Muirhouse, and
      county of Forfar (Old Stat. Acc. of Scot., vol. xiii, pp. 162, 163).
      In the time of the civil wars, and before he contemplated being a
      clergyman, he was a captain in the army. He held the office of
      king’s chaplain, when Charles the Second was in Scotland. The
      description which “Old Aitkenhead, who had it from the gentlewoman,”
      gave, of Cromwell’s visit, in April 1651, to the High church of
      Glasgow, where Mr. Durham was preaching, is this: “The first seat
      that offered him was P. Porterfield’s, where Miss Porterfield sat,
      and she, seeing him an English officer, was almost not civil.
      However he got in and sat next Miss Porterfield. After sermon was
      over he asked the minister’s name. She sullenly enough told him, and
      desired to know wherefore he asked. He said because he perceived him
      to be a very great man, and in his opinion might be chaplain to any
      prince in Europe, though he had never seen him nor heard of him
      before. She inquired about him, and found it was O. Cromwell”
      (Wodrow’s Anal., vol. v. p. 186, MSS in Bib. Ad.).

      Mr. Durham sided neither with the Resolutionists nor Protestors. For
      this he was strongly blamed at the time by Principal Baillie, who
      took a keen part in the controversy, (Let. and Jour., vol. ii. p.
      376) though after his death, he recorded, in the following terms,
      his opinion of Mr. Durham’s character and talents. “From the day I
      was employed by the presbytery to preach, and to pray, and to
      impose, with others, hands upon him, for the ministry at Glasgow, I
      did live to the very last with him in great and uninterrupted love,
      and in high estimation of his egregious endowments, which made him
      to me precious among the most excellent divines I have been
      acquainted with in the whole isle. O, if it were the good pleasure
      of the Master of the vineyard to plant many such noble vines in this
      land!” (Durham’s Commentary upon the book of Revelation, Address to
      the Reader, p. vi). The work written by Durham, entitled, “The Law
      Unsealed, or a Practical Exposition of the Ten Commandments,” has
      commendatory prefaces prefixed to it, by two distinguished English
      puritans, Dr. John Owen, and Mr. William Jenkyn. Dr. Owen wrote
      likewise a preface to the Clavis Cantici, or an Exposition of the
      Song of Solomon, by James Durham, minister at Glasgow, 4to, 1669.
      Doubts have been expressed, however, whether Wood, in his Athenæ
      Oxomenses, (vol. ii, p. 747, Lond. 1721) was warranted to attribute
      this preface to Owen, “as the preface is anonymous” (Orme’s Life of
      Owen, Append., p. 505). But the only copy of the work, which is in
      my possession, (Glas. 1723) has attached to it the name of “John
      Owen, May 20, 1669.”

      The widow of Mr. Durham, who was the daughter of Mr. William Muir of
      Glanderston, a branch of the family of the Muirs of Caldwell, was,
      in 1679, twice committed to prison, for having in her house
      religious meetings, or conventicles, as they were called in those
      days of relentless tyranny and oppression. On one of the occasions,
      she was taken to Edinburgh, and imprisoned there, along with her
      sister, the mother of Principal Carstairs. Wodrow’s Hist. of the
      Suff. of the Church of Scot., vol. iii, pp. 10, 54.—Ed.]

  111 [See page 368.—Ed.]

  112 [See page 406.—Ed.]

  113 [The following account of the origin of the differences between the
      Resolutioners and Protesters, is that given by Kirkton. “After the
      defeat of Dumbar, the king required a new army to be levyed, wishing
      earnestly it might be of another mettale than that which hade been
      lossed. So he desired that sort of people who were called
      Malignants, his darlings, might be brought into places of trust,
      both in council and army, though they hade been secluded from both
      by their own consent. And this request was granted both by committee
      of estates and commission of the church sitting at Perth. But there
      was a party in both these councils which alledged confidently, that
      though the malignants were content to profess repentance for their
      former practices, yet they should be found to be men neither sincere
      in their profusions, nor successful in their undertakings. This was
      the beginning of the fatal schism in the Scottish church. For though
      the king, to secure Scotland, was content once more to take the
      covenant at his coronation in Scoon (which instrument he caused burn
      at London) yet the dissatisfied party continued still in their
      jealousies, and even of the king himself whom they doubted most of
      all. This party was called Protesters and Remonstrators as the other
      was called Resolutioners, which names occasioned lamentable
      distraction” (History of the Church of Scotland p. 53). A more
      particular account of this unhappy controversy, so fatal in its
      results to both parties, may be seen in the introduction to Wodrow’s
      history.

      Though Baillie was a Resolutioner, he seems to have had some
      misgivings as to the course he adopted. “We carried unanimously at
      last,” says he in a letter to Mr. Spang, dated Perth, January 2,
      1651, “the answer herewith sent to you. My joy for this was soon
      tempered when I saw the consequence, the loathing of sundry good
      people to see numbers of grievous bloodshedders ready to come in,
      and so many malignant noblemen as were not like to lay down arms
      till they were put into some places of trust, and restored to their
      vote in parliament.” (Letters and Journals, vol. ii, p. 366). In the
      Life of Professor Wodrow written by his son, (pp. 29, 30, Edin.
      1828) it is said, “There were great endeavours used in the year
      1659, and 1660, entirely to remove that unhappy rent ’twixt the
      public Resolutioners and Protesters in this church, and had not Mr.
      Sharp struck in by his letters from London in order to serve his own
      designs, and ruin both, and made Mr. Douglas and other ministers at
      Edinburgh cold in this matter of the union, it had no doubt
      succeeded. These put Mr. Wodrow upon an inquiry into that debate,
      and when leaving the lessons during the vacation in the summer he
      desired Mr. Baillie’s directions what to read for understanding that
      subject. The professor said to him, ‘Jacobe, I am too much engaged
      personally in that debate to give you either my judgement on the
      whole, or to direct you to particular authors on the one side and
      the other,’ but taking him into his closet he gave him the whole
      pamphlets that had passed on both sides in print and manuscript,
      laid ranked in their proper order, and said, there is the whole that
      I know in that affair; take them home to the country with you, and
      read them carefully and look to the Lord for his guiding you to
      determine yourself aright upon the whole.”—Ed.]

  114 [This treatise was afterwards printed and is included in the present
      edition of the works of the author.—Ed.]

  115 [See page 226.—Ed.]

  116 [Mr. Patrick Gillespie, who was brother to George Gillespie one of
      the ministers of Edinburgh, was for some time minister of Kirkcaldy.
      On the 4th December, 1641, “Mr. Pa. Gillespie produceit,” to the
      magistrates and council of Glasgow, “a presentation grantit to him,
      be his Majestie, of the place of the Highe Kirke, instead of the
      bischope” (Glasgow Burgh Records). He was one of the three ministers
      who, in 1651, were summarily deposed by the Assembly, for their
      opposition to the Public Resolutions, and protesting against the
      lawfulness of that Assembly (Lamont’s Diary, p. 33). His sentence
      was reversed by the Synod of Glasgow (Baillie’s Letters, vol. ii.,
      pp. 414, 415). Gillespie was evidently desirous to effect a
      reconciliation between the Resolutioners and Protesters, by means of
      mutual concessions (Id. pp. 388, 401, 411). In the year 1553, he was
      elected principal of the University of Glasgow, by the English
      sequestrators (Id. p. 371, Lamont’s Diary, p. 53).

      No one in Scotland had more influence with Cromwell than Principal
      Gillespie, who is said to have been the first minister in the Church
      of Scotland, who prayed publicly for him (Nicol’s Diary, p. 162). In
      April 1654, the Protector called him up to London, along with Mr.
      John Livingston of Ancrum, and Mr. John Menzies of Aberdeen, to
      consult with them on Scottish affairs (Life of Livingston, p. 55).
      He preached before the Protector in his chapel, and obtained from
      him, for the University of Glasgow, the confirmation of “all former
      foundations, mortifications, and donations made in its favour,
      particularly that of the bishopric of Galloway, to which he added
      the vacant stipends of the parishes, which had been in the patronage
      of the bishop of Galloway, for seven years to come; and also in
      perpetuity the revenues of the deanery and sub-deanery of Glasgow”
      (Old Stat. Acc. of Scot., vol. xxi., Append. pp. 25, 26). Through
      his influence with the Protector, he likewise procured a grant to
      the town of Glasgow, “for the use of the poor who had been injured
      by the fire in 1653,” [1652] (Brown’s Hist. of Glasg., p. 120) and
      “assisted and pleasured sundry in the matter of their fines”
      (Baillie’s Letters, vol. ii. p. 390). As to what is said by the
      editor of Kirkton’s History, that after the Restoration, “Gillespie
      had made great efforts for a pardon, and offered to promote
      episcopacy in Scotland” (p. 111), the reader is referred to a Review
      of that work, in the Christian Instructor (Vol. xvii. pp. 339, 340).
      He died not long after this at Leith (Law’s Memorials, p. 11).

      Gillespie’s work, entitled “The Ark of the Covenant Opened,”
      (London, printed for Tho. Parkhurst, 1677) has a preface from the
      pen of Dr. John Owen, who was with Cromwell in Scotland, as one of
      his chaplains, and in this way, no doubt, became acquainted with
      Gillespie (Wood’s Athenæ Oxomensis, vol. ii., p. 738, London, 1721).
      In his preface, Dr. Owen says, “My long Christian acquaintance with
      the author made me not unwilling to testify my respects unto him and
      his labours in the church of God, now he is at rest, for whom I had
      so great an esteem while he was alive.” Wodrow expresses his regret,
      that “the other three parts” of Gillespie’s work have not been
      printed, which, he informs us, the author “wrote and finished for
      the press” (Hist. of the Suff. of Ch. of Scot., vol. i., p. 204,
      Glasg. 1829). The Synod of Glasgow were informed, on the 8th of
      Oct., 1701, that “Mr. Parkhurst, at London,” possessed two
      unpublished parts of Gillespie’s Ark of the Covenant. They,
      therefore, appointed a committee to communicate with him on the
      subject, through some of the booksellers of Glasgow, “conceiving
      that the publishing of these pieces may be of use to the Church,
      from the experience they have had of the works of that worthy author
      already come to light, upon the same subject” (Records of Synod). On
      the 5th April, 1709, “Mr. Robert Wodrow reports, that Mr. Parkhurst
      continues still indisposed, so that nothing can be done with respect
      to the printing of Mr Gillespie’s book formerly mentioned.
      Wherefore, the Synod lets the matter fall out of their minutes.” Id.

      Chalmers (Caledonia, vol. iii., p. 591) seems to have imagined that
      Patrick Gillespie was the “Galasp” ridiculed by Milton, in one of
      his sonnets. Warton says, this was “George Gillespie, one of the
      Scotch ministers of the Assembly of Divines” (Warton’s Milton, p.
      339, Lond. 1791). But Milton referred neither to the one nor the
      other, but to Allaster Macdonald Macgillespie, (son of
      Archibald) otherwise known by the name of Colkittoch, or Colkitto,
      who commanded the Irish auxiliaries in Montrose’s army. See the new
      edition of Baillie’s Letters, now in course of publication, formerly
      quoted, vol. ii. p. 499.—Ed.]

  117 [This is a simple marble tablet surmounted with a heart, and the
      emblems of mortality. It was placed in a niche in the front wall of
      the old parish church; but, in 1826, when the present church was
      erected, which is a Gothic structure, it was removed to the
      vestibule. It is seen in the vignette of the title page. The
      inscription may be turned into English, thus “Mr. Hugh Binning is
      buried here, a man distinguished for his piety, eloquence, and
      learning, an eminent philologist, philosopher, and theologian; in
      fine, a faithful and acceptable preacher of the gospel, who was
      removed from this world in the 26th year of his age, and in the year
      of our Lord 1653. He changed his country, not his company, because
      when on earth he walked with God. If thou wish to know any thing
      beyond this, I am silent as to any thing further, since neither thou
      nor this marble can receive it.”—Ed.]

  118 [John Binning of Dalvennan was served heir to his grandfather on the
      19th of March, 1672 (Inq. Ret. Ab. Ayr, 580). And the Retour of his
      heritable property, at the date of his forfeiture, specifies, as
      having belonged to him, the ten mark land of the ten pound land of
      Keires, comprehending the lands of Dalvennan, Yondertoun and
      Burntoun, Daluy, Milntown, The Fence, Drumore, Hillhead,
      Rashiefauld, Chappel, the mill of Keires, &c., in the parish of
      Straiton; the lands of Over Priest-Craig and Nether Priest-Craig in
      the parish of Colmonell; and a house, garden, and land in the parish
      of Maybole, in the county of Ayr—Inq. De Possess Quinquen
      (18).—Ed.]

  119 [The name of “Binning of Dalvennan” appears in the Act of the
      Scottish parliament, “Rescinding the Forefaultures and Fynes since
      the year 1665” (Acts of the Parl. of Scot. vol. ix. p. 165) Previous
      to the passing of that Act, however, a petition was presented to the
      parliament by Mr. Roderick McKenzie, who had been a Depute Advocate
      in the former reign, in which he stated, “That John Binning of
      Dalvennan having been forefault for being in armes at Bothwell
      bridge, anno 1679, and the deceased Matthew Colvill, writer in
      Edinburgh, John Binning’s greatest enemy, being very active to
      obtain the gift of his forefaulture, with a designe of his ruine,
      and the prejudice of his numerous and just creditors, the deceased
      Mr. James Gordon, minister at Cumber in Ireland, John Binning’s
      father in law and former Curator, to whom he was oweing a
      considerable soume of money, came over to Scotland, at John
      Binning’s desire, who was then in Ireland, to obtaine the said gift,
      to disappoint Matthew Colvill thereof, who prevailed with the
      petitioner to lend the money to pay the compositione and expenses of
      the gift.” Mr. McKenzie also affirmed, that he had “no other
      security for the money soe lent, but a right to the said gift,” and
      that the money he had advanced “to the said Mr. James Gordon for the
      compositione and expenses of the gift, with what he has payed of
      John Binning’s reall and confirmed debts, far exceeds the value of
      his land.” In consequence of these representations, “Their Majesties
      High commissioner and said Estates of Parliament remitt the case of
      Mr. Roderick McKenzie, petitioner, anent the forfaulture of
      Dalvennan, to the consideratione of the commission nominate in the
      General Act recissory of ffynes and forefaulters, with power to them
      to hear the parties concerned thereanent, and to report to the next
      session of this, or any other ensuing parliament.”—Id. pp. 162, 163.

      John Binning was declared at this period to be “altogether
      insolvent.” This is the reason probably, if he was not in the mean
      time satisfied that his claim was untenable, that his case does not
      appear to have been brought under the notice of parliament again,
      and that he did not persist in his attempts to regain possession of
      Dalvennan (Id. Appendix, p. 32). To confirm his title to a property,
      which considering the office he held, seems to have been acquired
      under very suspicious circumstances, McKenzie had contrived to get
      an act of parliament passed in his favour, in the year 1685. In this
      Act, he is lauded for “suppressing the rebellious fanatical partie
      in the western and other shires of the realme, and putting lawes to
      vigorous execution against them, as His Majesties Advocate Deput,”
      and the lands of Dalvennan are said to have been transferred to him
      by “Jean Gordon, as donatrix,” who was the uterine sister of John
      Binning, and who is described as “relect of the deceist Daniel
      McKenzie sometime ensign to the Earle of Dalhousie, in the Earle of
      Marr’s Regiment” (Id. vol. viii. pp. 565-567). John Binning taught a
      school for some time (Faithful Contendings p. 66). The General
      Assembly showed kindness to him, on different occasions, for his
      father’s sake. In 1702, the Commission of the Assembly being
      informed by a petition from himself of his “sad circumstances,”
      recommended him to the provincial Synods of Lothian and Tweedale,
      and of Glasgow and Ayr “for some charitable supply” (Rec. of
      Commission, Sess. 39). In 1704, he applied for relief to the General
      Assembly, and stated that he had obtained from the Privy Council a
      patent to print his father’s works, of which twelve years were then
      unexpired, and that it was his intention to publish them in one
      volume. The Assembly recommended “every minister within the kingdom
      to take a double of the same book, or to subscribe for the same.”
      They likewise called upon the different presbyteries in the church
      to collect among themselves something for the petitioner (Unprinted
      Acts, Sess. 11). The last application he made to the Assembly for
      pecuniary aid was in 1717, when he must have been far advanced in
      life—Idem, 13th May.—Ed.]

  120 [Mr. James Gordon was minister of Comber, in the county of Down. He
      was ordained about the year 1646. We find his name in Wodrow’s list
      of the non-conforming ministers in the synod of Ballimenoch in
      Ireland (Hist. of Suff. of Ch. of Scot. vol. i. p. 324). According
      to Dr Reid, “Mr. Gordon, after having been deposed with the rest of
      his brethren in 1661, continued to officiate privately at Comber for
      many years, but about the year 1683, in his old age, he appears to
      have deserted his principles, and conformed to prelacy.” Hist. of
      the Presb. Ch. in Ireland, vol. ii. pp. 129, 130.—Ed.]

  121 [May 14, 1654—“Sederunt Mr John Carstaires and the Elders.

      “The qlk day the session being conveened for election and calling of
      a minr to the kirk of Govan, and having now this forenoon heard Mr.
      David Veetch, with whom most are satisfied, but for the satisfaction
      of all persons interested, who heard him never but once, both of
      heritors and elders, the session have delayed their election till
      they hear him again in the afternoon, and the session then were to
      meet again for that effect.

      “Sederunt Mr John Carstaires and the Elders.

      “The heritors and elders having now heard the said Mr. David Veetch
      twise, and both being well satisfied, and clear, and unanimous, the
      satisfaction of the session being first enquired, and next of the
      heritors, which, being both of one mynd, cordially for the thing, a
      call was presently drawn up, and subt by moderator and clerk, also
      by session and heritors, according to order. After the forsd
      draught, at appointment of the presbytery and session, Mr. John
      preached in the sd church, and, after sermon, did intimat to the
      people their nomination of Mr. David to take charge in the ministrie
      of that congregation, and ordained, that if any person had any thing
      to object agt the said Mr. David being minr at the sd church, they
      would come and signifie it to the session, now presently to meet at
      the sd church for that effect, according to the practice in such
      cases. The session having met, and none compearand to signifie their
      dissent, or assent, they take their non compearance for their
      signification of satisfaction, so, after three severall byesses at
      the most patent door of the sd church, by the officer intimating the
      forsd words, none at all appeared. So the sd Mr. David being desired
      to come in to session, they presented to him their unanimous and
      cordiall call of election to the ministrie of the kirk of Govan,
      which he accepted.” Records of Kirk-Session of Govan—Ed.]

  122 [12mo., Glasgow, 1609.—Ed.]

  123 [Macward’s words are, a prima manu. No fewer
      than four editions of these have been printed at Amsterdam.—Ed.]

  126 [See page 457.—Ed.]

  127 [See page 465.—Ed.]

  128 [A contemporary of Binning, Mr. P. Simson, minister of Renfrew,
      informed Wodrow, “That Dr. Strang was in hazard to have been staged
      for his Dictates qch wer smoothed in his printed book, De Voluntate
      Dei, and would have been removed from his place if he had not
      demitted.” (Life of Dr. Strang, Wodrow MSS. vol. xiii. p. 9, in Bib.
      Coll. Glas.) Complaints regarding Dr. Strang having been presented
      to the General Assembly, a committee was appointed, on the 18th of
      June, 1646, to examine his written dictates, a copy of which was
      produced by Dr. Strang, and to find out whether the doctrines which
      he taught were in accordance with the doctrines of their own and
      other reformed churches, and whether there were any expressions used
      by him which gave countenance to the views of the enemies of the
      truth. This committee was composed of some of the most able men in
      the church, including several professors from the four universities
      The list contains, along with others, the names of Alexander
      Henderson, John Sharpe, the author of Cursus Theologicus, Robert
      Douglas, George Gillespie, Robert Blair, Samuel Rutherford, James
      Wood, William Strahan, David Dickson, Robert Baillie, John Neave,
      Edward Calderwood and Robert Leighton, afterwards Archbishop of
      Glasgow. On the 27th of August, 1647, the committee gave in a Report
      to the General Assembly, to the effect that Dr. Strang had employed
      some expressions in his dictates which were calculated to give
      offence, but that on conferring with him, they were satisfied in
      regard to his orthodoxy, and that to put an end to all doubts as to
      his meaning, the Doctor had gratified them by proposing of his own
      accord the addition of certain words to what was previously somewhat
      ambiguous (Vita Autoris, Strangu De Interpret. Script.).

      So far as can be collected from the imperfect account we have of the
      circumstances of the case, Dr. Strang discovered, it was imagined, a
      bias to Arminianism, whereas he seems to have been merely more of a
      sublapsarian than a supralapsarian. The “peculiar notions” he
      entertained were vented, we have been told, upon that profound
      subject De concursi et influxu deimo cum actionibus creaturarum or
      the concurrence and influence of God in the actions of his
      creatures. In the two chapters of his published work which treat
      expressly upon this point, we can perceive nothing that is at
      variance with our own Confession. But this does not warrant us to
      infer that the dictates, as originally delivered and before they
      were amended and enlarged by the author himself, may not have
      contained some very objectionable language at least, especially when
      we look to the Report of the committee of the Assembly regarding
      them. Indeed, all that Baillie himself says, who was one of that
      committee, is, that Dr. Strang was pursued “without any ground at
      all considerable,” and that “he got him reasonably fair off.”
      Letters and Journals, vol. ii., p. 338.

      The publication of Dr. Strang’s work, “De Voluntate et Actionibus
      Dei circa Peccatum” (Amstelodami Apud Ludovicum et Danielson
      Elzeurios, 1657. 4to. pp. 886), was intrusted to Mr. William Spang,
      minister of the English church at Middleburgh in Zealand. The
      manuscripts were sent to him by his cousin, Mr. Robert Baillie, at
      that time Professor of Theology in the University of Glasgow, who,
      after the death of his first wife, had married a daughter of Dr.
      Strang. “Dr. Strang, your good friend,” says Baillie, in a letter to
      Mr. Spang, dated July 20, 1654, “having to do in Edinburgh with the
      lawyers, concerning the unjust trouble he was put to for his
      stipends, did die, so sweetly and graciously, as was satisfactory to
      all, and much applauded over all the city, his very persecutors
      giving him an ample testimony. His treatise, Dei circa peccatum,
      he has enlarged, and made ready for the press. Be careful to get it
      well printed, according to the constant friendship that was always
      betwixt you and him.” (Letters, vol. ii. pp. 382, 383) At the
      request of Mr. Spang, Alexander Morus furnished a preface, and Ad
      Lectorem Commomito, for Dr. Strang’s work.—Ed.]

  129 [“This is somewhat strange, observes Howie of Lochgoin, “that a
      nameless author should quarrel that book because the publisher hath
      omitted to tell his name, and hath only inserted the author’s name.
      He might have known that it was not long a secret that Mr. James Kid
      (who was afterwards settled minister in Queensferry) was the
      publisher, and upon that account suffered both long imprisonment at
      Utrecht, and the seizure of all that they could get of the books.
      And as for vouchers, Mrs. Binning the relict of the worthy author,
      being then alive, had connexion and much correspondence with Mr.
      Hamilton, Mr. Renwick, and many of the persecuted Society people,
      and was of the same sentiments with them, as appears by several
      letters yet extant in their own hand-writ—and Mr. Renwick speaks of
      her in some of his letters, as in the 49 and 104 pages of the
      printed volume of his letters but especially it appears, by a
      paragraph which is omitted in the printed copy, page 58, (which
      shall be here transcribed from the original, written with his own
      hand,) wherein he says, ‘Likewise, according to your direction, I
      challenged Mrs. Binning upon the commendation she gave to John
      Wilson in her letter to you. But she says that she had not then seen
      his testimony, and was sorry when she saw it that it was so contrary
      both to her thoughts and commendation of him.’ And likewise a
      postscript to the 20th Letter, relative to the same matter is also
      omitted. And about the same time that Mr. Binning’s book was
      printed, while Sir Robert Hamilton was prisoner, upon account of the
      declaration [Sanquhar Declaration] in 1692, he wrote a letter to
      Mrs. Binning, wherein he complains of her unwonted silence, in his
      honourable bonds for such a noble Master. Yet trusting her sympathy
      is not diminished, he adds, ‘O, my worthy friend, I cannot express
      Christ’s love and kindness since the time of my bonds. He hath broke
      up new treasures of felt love and sweetness, and hath been pleased
      to give me visitations of love and access to himself, to comfort and
      confirm poor feckless me many ways, that this is his way that is now
      persecuted, and that it is his precious truths, interests, and
      concerns, that I am now suffering for, whatever enemies with their
      associated ministers and professors may allege, &c.’ ”

      “By which it is evident that they had much correspondence with Mrs.
      Binning. And there is yet a fair and correct manuscript copy of the
      foresaid book extant, which was in Sir Robert’s custody, and it is
      more than probable that it was procured from Mrs. Binning,
      especially as she survived its publication without quarrelling it.

      “It is unnecessary to notice what further is thrown out by the
      foresaid anonymous writer, against the book and the publisher, as
      Mr. Wodrow, in the preface to Mr. Binning’s octavo volume of
      sermons, printed 1760, hath modestly animadverted thereupon, and
      says there is no reason to doubt if it was Mr. Binning’s. He also
      ingenuously confesseth, that there is in it the best collection of
      scriptures he knows, concerning the sin and danger of joining with
      wicked and ungodly men, &c., and that it was wrote in a smooth good
      style, agreeable enough to Mr. Binning’s sentiments in some of his
      sermons.” Faithful Contendings Displayed, pp. 486, 487, note. See
      likewise Faithful Witness-bearing Exemplified, preface, p.
      iv.—Ed.]

  130 [See page 527.—Ed.]

  131 [See page 527.—Ed.]

  132 [See page 528.—Ed.]

  133 [Ibid.—Ed.]

  134 [The word reduce is here used in its literal etymological sense,
      as signifying to bring back or to restore.—Ed.]

  135 [The allusion here appears to be to the doctrines of the Quakers
      who, in Binning’s time, were increasing in the west of Scotland, and
      accustomed to rail, with impunity, at ministers in the face of their
      congregations. See Baillie’s Letters, vol. ii., pp.  393, 413,
      419.—Ed.]

  136 [That is felt.—Ed.]

  137 [These terms were made use of as descriptive of themselves by the
      sect called the Familists. See Discovery of Familism, p. 7 apud
      Baillie’s Anabaptism, pp. 102-127, Lond. 1647.—Ed.]

  138 [That is, propound a nice question.—Ed.]

  139 [That is, careless.—Ed.]

  140 [The heathen poet whose words these are, (“We move towards what is
      forbidden”), describes well the perversity and the imbecility of our
      nature. Vid Ovid Amor. lib. iii. eleg. 4 ver. 17 Met. lib. vii. ver.
      20.—Ed.]

  141 [That is, the most natural.—Ed]

  142 [That is, a twist or undue bend.—Ed.]

  143 [That is, "His will stands for reason." Juv. Sat. vi. ver.
      222.—Ed.]

  144 [Mr. Binning was a Supralapsarian. In this and the two following
      Lectures he treats of the “high mystery of predestination,” the
      consideration of which, though it should be handled with special
      prudence and care, (West. Conf. of Faith, ch. 3) is nevertheless,
      full of sweet pleasant and unspeakable comfort to godly persons.
      Art. of Ch. of Eng. Art. xvii. His views of this mysterious doctrine
      are stated with singular clearness, and the objections to it, which
      he notices and answers, are brought forward with the utmost
      ingenuousness and candour and expressed, it must be admitted, as
      strongly as a caviller could desire.—Ed.]

  145 [The reader will remember that at this time the country was
      convulsed from one end of it to the other.—Ed.]

  146 [That is, Fate leads the willing and drags the unwilling.—Ed.]

  147 [This was the only consolation which one learned Roman could
      administer to another on the death of a friend. “This is hard,” said
      he, “but what cannot be remedied is more easily borne, with
      patience.” Hor. Carm. lib. I. carm. xxiv.—Ed.]

  148 [Or by the by.—Ed.]

  149 [That is grains or particles.—Ed.]

  150 [What a sublime answer was that which one of the deaf and dumb
      pupils of M. Sicard gave to the question, “What is eternity?” It is
      “a day,” said Massieu, “without yesterday or to-morrow,—un jour sans
      hier ni demain.” The thoughts of our author on this boundless theme
      are hardly less sublime.—Ed.]

  151 [That is, to have the same desires and aversions, that, in a word is
      strong friendship—Sallust in Catil. c. xx.—Ed.]

  152 [That is, twist.—Ed.]

  153 [Lycurgus, the Spartan lawgiver, made no law against ingratitude, it
      is said, because he conceived that no one could be so irrational as
      to be unthankful for kindness done to him.—Ed.]

  154 [That is, quarter.—Ed.]

  155 [The discourse ends so abruptly here, as plainly to show that it is
      an unfinished production, and was not designed by the learned and
      pious author for publication.—Ed.]

  156 [Perhaps the word ought to be museum, used in the sense of a place
      for study.—Ed.]

  157 [That is, not to speak of.—Ed.]

  158 [This simple vernacular expression, which is used by other Scottish
      theological writers of the period as employed here, is particularly
      expressive. It signifies a place where either foes or friends have
      agreed to meet. Is that place the temple of the Lord? There surely
      will peace and harmony prevail. Is our Daysman there? He will make
      intercession for us and reconcile us to God.—Ed.]

  159 [That is, orders us into his Son.—Ed.]

  160 [The following baneful and impious doctrines, which were, in
      England, in those days, openly proclaimed from the pulpit, and
      disseminated through the press, were, it seems, not altogether
      unknown in the northern part of the island:

      1. That the moral law is of no use at all to a believer, no rule for
      him to walk or examine his life by, and that Christians are free
      from the mandatory power of it.

      2. That it is as possible for Christ himself to sin, as for a child
      of God to sin.

      3. That a child of God need not, nay ought not, to ask pardon for
      sin, and that it is no less than blasphemy for him to do this.

      4. That God does not chastise any of his children for sin.

      5.  That if a man, by the Spirit, know himself to be in a state of
      grace, though he should commit the greatest crimes, God sees no sin
      in him.

      Three leading Antinomian teachers were brought before a committee of
      the House of Commons, for promulgating, in different ways, these and
      similar opinions, which were justly regarded as subversive of all
      morality.—Gataker’s “God’s Eye on his Israel”,—preface, Lond.
      1645.—Ed.]

  161 [“Antinomians, contending for faith of assurance, and leading men to
      be persuaded that God loveth every one, whom he commandeth to
      believe, with an everlasting love, and that ‘no man ought to call in
      question more whether he believe or no, than he ought to question
      the gospel and Christ,’ do with Libertines acknowledge a faith of
      assurance, but deny all faith of dependence on God through Christ,
      as if we were not justified by such a faith.”—“A Survey of the
      spiritual Antichrist, opening the secrets of Familisme and
      Antinominianisme.” by Samuel Rutherford, Professor of Divinity in
      the University of St. Andrew’s, part II. p. 235. London,
      1648.—Ed.]

  162 [These observations discover an accurate knowledge of the philosophy
      of the human mind, as well as of the doctrines of Scripture. It is
      certainly one thing to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and another
      thing to feel assured of one’s salvation, or to be persuaded that we
      are possessed of that true faith which is the gift of God, and by
      which the just shall live. To identify, as is sometimes done, faith
      in Christ and the assurance of salvation, is calculated, on the one
      hand, to encourage presumption; and, on the other hand, to give rise
      to despair, Prov. xxx. 12, Ezek. xiii. 22, 23. What an earlier
      writer even than Binning says upon this subject, is not unworthy of
      notice. “St. Paul, wishing well to the church of Rome, prayeth for
      them after this sort. ‘The God of hope fill you with all joy in
      believing.’ Hence an error groweth, when men in heaviness of spirit
      suppose they lack faith, because they find not the sugared joy and
      delight, which indeed doth accompany faith, but so as a separable
      accident, as a thing that may be removed from it, viz. there is a
      cause why it should be removed. The light would never be so
      acceptable, were it not for that usual intercourse of darkness. Too
      much honey doth turn into gall, and too much joy, even spiritual,
      would make us wantons. Happier a great deal is that man’s case,
      whose soul by inward desolation is humbled, than he whose heart is,
      through abundance of spiritual delight, lifted up and exalted above
      measure. Better it is sometimes to go down into the pit, with him,
      who, beholding darkness, and bewailing the loss of inward joy and
      consolation, crieth from the bottom of the lowest hell, My God, my
      God, why hast thou forsaken me? than continually to walk arm in arm
      with angels, to sit as it were in Abraham’s bosom, and to have no
      thought, no cogitation; but, ‘I thank my God it is not with me as it
      is with other men.’ No; God will have them that shall walk in light
      to feel now and then what it is to sit in the shadow of death. A
      grieved spirit, therefore, is no argument of a faithless
      mind.”—Hooker’s Works, vol. iii. pp. 527, 528. Oxford.
      1807.—Ed.]

  163 [That is, collect or obtain.—Ed.]

  164 [That is, between extremes.—Ed.]

  165 [Perhaps the word should be plungy, that is rainy. Chauc.—Ed.]

  166 [That is, cover with mist.—Ed.]

  167 [That is, deserving of consideration.—Ed.]

  168 [In the year 1661 Winston and some others sent a letter to Cromwell,
      through General Lambert, in which they charge the English army in
      Scotland “with divers errors countenancing of deposed ministers to
      preach silencing of ministers that preach of state proceedings,
      and suffering officers to preach,” &c.—Whithel’s Memorials p.
      497.—Ed.]

  169 [Cromwell, in his despatches, after the battle of Dunbar, states the
      number of his prisoners, exclusive of officers, to be near
      10,000.—Cromwelliana, p. 90. “The same daye the minister declaired
      yt yr wes a petitioune come from the prisoners at Tinmouth quho wer
      taiken at Dunbar, and representit to the presbyterie for support,
      because they wer in ane sterving conditione, and all comanders. And
      yt ye presbyterie hes recomendit the samen to ye several kirks of ye
      presbyterie, Therfoir ordaines that ane collectione be yranent upon
      Sondaye come 8 deyes, and intimation to be maid of it the next
      sabbathe to ye effect ye people may provide some considerable thing
      yranent.” Records of the kirk session of Govan, 1st July, 1652.
      “Upon the desire of the Guinea Merchants (20th Sept., 1651,) 1,500
      of the Scots prisoners were granted to them, and sent on shipboard
      to be transported to Guinea to work in the mines there.”—Whitelock’s
      Mem. p. 485. “Letters (25th October, 1651,) that many of the Scots
      prisoners and others at Shrewsbury were dead of a contagious
      fever.”—Id. p. 488.—Ed.]

  170 [That is, in this world.—Ed.]

  171 [That is, he will get, or meet with, a fall or fall lower as he, who
      aims at being wise above what is written, is in danger of falling
      into error.—Ed.]

  172 [That is, treat with indignity.—Ed.]

  173 [That is, check (from compesco, Lat.).—Ed.]

  174 [Or, hesitation.—Ed.]

  175 [That is, more honoured.—Ed.]

