"In every work that he began . . . he did it with all his heart, and prospered."--II. Chron.
XXXI. 21.  A fine and just appreciation of character, indicating the thoughtful observer; and
strikingly illustrative of the fact that it is the energy of the individual men that gives
strength to a State, and confers a value even upon the very soil which they cultivate.  As
the French proverb has it:  "Tant vaut l'homme, tant vaut sa terre."

The cultivation of this quality is of the greatest importance; resolute determination in the
pursuit of worthy objects being the foundation of all true greatness of character.  Energy
enables a man to force his way through irksome drudgery and dry details, and carries him onward
and upward in every station in life.  It accomplishes more than genius, with not one-half the
disappointment and peril.  It is not eminent talent that is required to ensure success in any
pursuit, so much as purpose,--not merely the power to achieve, but the will to labour energetically
and perseveringly. Hence energy of will may be defined to be the very central power of character
in a man--in a word, it is the Man himself.  It gives impulse to his every action, and soul
to every effort.  True hope is based on it,--and it is hope that gives the real perfume to
life.  There is a fine heraldic motto on a broken helmet in Battle Abbey, "L'espoir est ma
force," which might be the motto of every man's life.  "Woe unto him that is fainthearted,"
says the son of Sirach.  There is, indeed, no blessing equal to the possession of a stout heart.
Even if a man fail in his efforts, it will be a satisfaction to him to enjoy the consciousness
of having done his best.  In humble life nothing can be more cheering and beautiful than to
see a man combating suffering by patience, triumphing in his integrity, and who, when his feet
are bleeding and his limbs failing him, still walks upon his courage.

Mere wishes and desires but engender a sort of green sickness in young minds, unless they are
promptly embodied in act and deed.  It will not avail merely to wait as so many do, "until
Blucher comes up," but they must struggle on and persevere in the mean time, as Wellington
did.  The good purpose once formed must be carried out with alacrity and without swerving.
In most conditions of life, drudgery and toil are to be cheerfully endured as the best and
most wholesome discipline.  "In life," said Ary Scheffer, "nothing bears fruit except by labour
of mind or body.  To strive and still strive--such is life; and in this respect mine is fulfilled;
but I dare to say, with just pride, that nothing has ever shaken my courage.  With a strong
soul, and a noble aim, one can do what one wills, morally speaking."

Nothing that is of real worth can be achieved without courageous working.  An intense anticipation
itself transforms possibility into reality; our desires being often but the precursors of the
things which we are capable of performing.  On the contrary, the timid and hesitating find
everything impossible, chiefly because it seems so.  It is related of a young French officer,
that he used to walk about his apartment exclaiming, "I WILL be Marshal of France and a great
general."  His ardent desire was the presentiment of his success; for the young officer did
become a distinguished commander, and he died a Marshal of France.

Mr. Walker, author of the 'Original,' had so great a faith in the power of will, that he says
on one occasion he DETERMINED to be well, and he was so.  This may answer once; but, though
safer to follow than many prescriptions, it will not always succeed.  The power of mind over
body is no doubt great, but it may be strained until the physical power breaks down altogether.
It is related of Muley Moluc, the Moorish leader, that, when lying ill, almost worn out by
an incurable disease, a battle took place between his troops and the Portuguese; when, starting
from his litter at the great crisis of the fight, he rallied his army, led them to victory,
and instantly afterwards sank exhausted and expired.

It is will,--force of purpose,--that enables a man to do or be whatever he sets his mind on
being or doing.  A holy man was accustomed to say, "Whatever you wish, that you are:  for such
is the force of our will, joined to the Divine, that whatever we wish to be, seriously, and
with a true intention, that we become.  No one ardently wishes to be submissive, patient, modest,
or liberal, who does not become what he wishes."  The story is told of a working carpenter,
who was observed one day planing a magistrate's bench which he was repairing, with more than
usual carefulness; and when asked the reason, he replied, "Because I wish to make it easy against
the time when I come to sit upon it myself."  And singularly enough, the man actually lived
to sit upon that very bench as a magistrate.

Whatever theoretical conclusions logicians may have formed as to the freedom of the will, each
individual feels that practically he is free to choose between good and evil--that he is not
as a mere straw thrown upon the water to mark the direction of the current, but that he has
within him the power of a strong swimmer, and is capable of striking out for himself, of buffeting
with the waves, and directing to a great extent his own independent course.  There is no absolute
constraint upon our volitions, and we feel and know that we are not bound, as by a spell, with
reference to our actions.  It would paralyze all desire of excellence were we to think otherwise.
The entire business and conduct of life, with its domestic rules, its social arrangements,
and its public institutions, proceed upon the practical conviction that the will is free. 
Without this where would be responsibility?--and what the advantage of teaching, advising,
preaching, reproof, and correction?  What were the use of laws, were it not the universal belief,
as it is the universal fact, that men obey them or not, very much as they individually determine?
In every moment of our life, conscience is proclaiming that our will is free.  It is the only
thing that is wholly ours, and it rests solely with ourselves individually, whether we give
it the right or the wrong direction. Our habits or our temptations are not our masters, but
we of them. Even in yielding, conscience tells us we might resist; and that were we determined
to master them, there would not be required for that purpose a stronger resolution than we
know ourselves to be capable of exercising.

"You are now at the age," said Lamennais once, addressing a gay youth, "at which a decision
must be formed by you; a little later, and you may have to groan within the tomb which you
yourself have dug, without the power of rolling away the stone.  That which the easiest becomes
a habit in us is the will.

Buxton held the conviction that a young man might be very much what he pleased, provided he
formed a strong resolution and held to it. Writing to one of his sons, he said to him, "You
are now at that period of life, in which you must make a turn to the right or the left.  You
must now give proofs of principle, determination, and strength of mind; or you must sink into
idleness, and acquire the habits and character of a desultory, ineffective young man; and if
once you fall to that point, you will find it no easy matter to rise again.  I am sure that
a young man may be very much what he pleases.  In my own case it was so. . . . Much of my happiness,
and all my prosperity in life, have resulted from the change I made at your age.  If you seriously
resolve to be energetic and industrious, depend upon it that you will for your whole life have
reason to rejoice that you were wise enough to form and to act upon that determination."  As
will, considered without regard to direction, is simply constancy, firmness, perseverance,
it will be obvious that everything depends upon right direction and motives. Directed towards
the enjoyment of the senses, the strong will may be a demon, and the intellect merely its debased
slave; but directed towards good, the strong will is a king, and the intellect the minister
of man's highest well-being.  His life taught the lesson that power, however energetically
wielded, without beneficence, is fatal to its possessor and its subjects; and that knowledge,
or knowingness, without goodness, is but the incarnate principle of Evil.

Our own Wellington was a far greater man.  Not less resolute, firm, and persistent, but more
self-denying, conscientious, and truly patriotic.  Napoleon's aim was "Glory;" Wellington's
watchword, like Nelson's, was "Duty."  The former word, it is said, does not once occur in
his despatches; the latter often, but never accompanied by any high-sounding professions. 
The greatest difficulties could neither embarrass nor intimidate Wellington; his energy invariably
rising in proportion to the obstacles to be surmounted.  The patience, the firmness, the resolution,
with which he bore through the maddening vexations and gigantic difficulties of the Peninsular
campaigns, is, perhaps, one of the sublimest things to be found in history.  In Spain, Wellington
not only exhibited the genius of the general, but the comprehensive wisdom of the statesman.
Though his natural temper was irritable in the extreme, his high sense of duty enabled him
to restrain it; and to those about him his patience seemed absolutely inexhaustible.  His great
character stands untarnished by ambition, by avarice, or any low passion.  Though a man of
powerful individuality, he yet displayed a great variety of endowment.  The equal of Napoleon
in generalship, he was as prompt, vigorous, and daring as Clive; as wise a statesman as Cromwell;
and as pure and high-minded as Washington.  The great Wellington left behind him an enduring
reputation, founded on toilsome campaigns won by skilful combination, by fortitude which nothing
could exhaust, by sublime daring, and perhaps by still sublimer patience.

Energy usually displays itself in promptitude and decision.  When Ledyard the traveller was
asked by the African Association when he would be ready to set out for Africa, he immediately
answered, "To- morrow morning."  Blucher's promptitude obtained for him the cognomen of "Marshal
Forwards" throughout the Prussian army.  When John Jervis, afterwards Earl St. Vincent, was
asked when he would be ready to join his ship, he replied, "Directly."  And when Sir Colin
Campbell, appointed to the command of the Indian army, was asked when he could set out, his
answer was, "To-morrow,"--an earnest of his subsequent success.  For it is rapid decision,
and a similar promptitude in action, such as taking instant advantage of an enemy's mistakes,
that so often wins battles.  "At Arcola," said Napoleon, "I won the battle with twenty-five
horsemen.  I seized a moment of lassitude, gave every man a trumpet, and gained the day with
this handful.  Two armies are two bodies which meet and endeavour to frighten each other: 
a moment of panic occurs, and THAT MOMENT must be turned to advantage."  "Every moment lost,"
said he at another time, "gives an opportunity for misfortune;" and he declared that he beat
the Austrians because they never knew the value of time:  while they dawdled, he overthrew them.

India has, during the last century, been a great field for the display of British energy. 
From Clive to Havelock and Clyde there is a long and honourable roll of distinguished names
in Indian legislation and warfare,--such as Wellesley, Metcalfe, Outram, Edwardes, and the
Lawrences.  Another great but sullied name is that of Warren Hastings--a man of dauntless will
and indefatigable industry.  His family was ancient and illustrious; but their vicissitudes
of fortune and ill-requited loyalty in the cause of the Stuarts, brought them to poverty, and
the family estate at Daylesford, of which they had been lords of the manor for hundreds of
years, at length passed from their hands.  The last Hastings of Daylesford had, however, presented
the parish living to his second son; and it was in his house, many years later, that Warren
Hastings, his grandson, was born.  The boy learnt his letters at the village school, on the
same bench with the children of the peasantry.  He played in the fields which his fathers had
owned; and what the loyal and brave Hastings of Daylesford HAD been, was ever in the boy's
thoughts.  His young ambition was fired, and it is said that one summer's day, when only seven
years old, as he laid him down on the bank of the stream which flowed through the domain, he
formed in his mind the resolution that he would yet recover possession of the family lands.
It was the romantic vision of a boy; yet he lived to realize it.  The dream became a passion,
rooted in his very life; and he pursued his determination through youth up to manhood, with
that calm but indomitable force of will which was the most striking peculiarity of his character.
The orphan boy became one of the most powerful men of his time; he retrieved the fortunes of
his line; bought back the old estate, and rebuilt the family mansion.

Sir Charles Napier was another Indian leader of extraordinary courage and determination.  He
once said of the difficulties with which he was surrounded in one of his campaigns, "They only
make my feet go deeper into the ground."  His battle of Meeanee was one of the most extraordinary
feats in history.  With 2000 men, of whom only 400 were Europeans, he encountered an army of
35,000 hardy and well-armed Beloochees.  It was an act, apparently, of the most daring temerity,
but the general had faith in himself and in his men.  He charged the Belooch centre up a high
bank which formed their rampart in front, and for three mortal hours the battle raged.  Each
man of that small force, inspired by the chief, became for the time a hero.  The Beloochees,
though twenty to one, were driven back, but with their faces to the foe.  It is this sort of
pluck, tenacity, and determined perseverance which wins soldiers' battles, and, indeed, every
battle.  It is the one neck nearer that wins the race and shows the blood; it is the one march
more that wins the campaign; the five minutes' more persistent courage that wins the fight.
Though your force be less than another's, you equal and outmaster your opponent if you continue
it longer and concentrate it more.  The reply of the Spartan father, who said to his son, when
complaining that his sword was too short, "Add a step to it," is applicable to everything in life.

Napier took the right method of inspiring his men with his own heroic spirit.  He worked as
hard as any private in the ranks. "The great art of commanding," he said, "is to take a fair
share of the work.  The man who leads an army cannot succeed unless his whole mind is thrown
into his work.  The more trouble, the more labour must be given; the more danger, the more
pluck must be shown, till all is overpowered."  A young officer who accompanied him in his
campaign in the Cutchee Hills, once said, "When I see that old man incessantly on his horse,
how can I be idle who am young and strong?  I would go into a loaded cannon's mouth if he ordered
me."  This remark, when repeated to Napier, he said was ample reward for his toils.  The anecdote
of his interview with the Indian juggler strikingly illustrates his cool courage as well as
his remarkable simplicity and honesty of character.  On one occasion, after the Indian battles,
a famous juggler visited the camp and performed his feats before the General, his family, and
staff.  Among other performances, this man cut in two with a stroke of his sword a lime or
lemon placed in the hand of his assistant. Napier thought there was some collusion between
the juggler and his retainer.  To divide by a sweep of the sword on a man's hand so small an
object without touching the flesh he believed to be impossible, though a similar incident is
related by Scott in his romance of the 'Talisman.'  To determine the point, the General offered
his own hand for the experiment, and he stretched out his right arm.  The juggler looked attentively
at the hand, and said he would not make the trial.  "I thought I would find you out!" exclaimed
Napier.  "But stop," added the other, "let me see your left hand."  The left hand was submitted,
and the man then said firmly, "If you will hold your arm steady I will perform the feat." "But
why the left hand and not the right?"  "Because the right hand is hollow in the centre, and
there is a risk of cutting off the thumb; the left is high, and the danger will be less." 
Napier was startled.  "I got frightened," he said; "I saw it was an actual feat of delicate
swordsmanship, and if I had not abused the man as I did before my staff, and challenged him
to the trial, I honestly acknowledge I would have retired from the encounter.  However, I put
the lime on my hand, and held out my arm steadily.  The juggler balanced himself, and, with
a swift stroke cut the lime in two pieces.  I felt the edge of the sword on my hand as if a
cold thread had been drawn across it.  So much (he added) for the brave swordsmen of India,
whom our fine fellows defeated at Meeanee."

The recent terrible struggle in India has served to bring out, perhaps more prominently than
any previous event in our history, the determined energy and self-reliance of the national
character. Although English officialism may often drift stupidly into gigantic blunders, the
men of the nation generally contrive to work their way out of them with a heroism almost approaching
the sublime.  In May, 1857, when the revolt burst upon India like a thunder-clap, the British
forces had been allowed to dwindle to their extreme minimum, and were scattered over a wide
extent of country, many of them in remote cantonments.  The Bengal regiments, one after another,
rose against their officers, broke away, and rushed to Delhi.  Province after province was
lapped in mutiny and rebellion; and the cry for help rose from east to west.  Everywhere the
English stood at bay in small detachments, beleaguered and surrounded, apparently incapable
of resistance.  Their discomfiture seemed so complete, and the utter ruin of the British cause
in India so certain, that it might be said of them then, as it had been said before, "These
English never know when they are beaten." According to rule, they ought then and there to have
succumbed to inevitable fate.

While the issue of the mutiny still appeared uncertain, Holkar, one of the native princes,
consulted his astrologer for information. The reply was, "If all the Europeans save one are
slain, that one will remain to fight and reconquer."  In their very darkest moment- -even where,
as at Lucknow, a mere handful of British soldiers, civilians, and women, held out amidst a
city and province in arms against them--there was no word of despair, no thought of surrender.
Though cut off from all communication with their friends for months, and not knowing whether
India was lost or held, they never ceased to have perfect faith in the courage and devotedness
of their countrymen.  They knew that while a body of men of English race held together in India,
they would not be left unheeded to perish.  They never dreamt of any other issue but retrieval
of their misfortune and ultimate triumph; and if the worst came to the worst, they could but
fall at their post, and die in the performance of their duty.  Need we remind the reader of
the names of Havelock, Inglis, Neill, and Outram--men of truly heroic mould--of each of whom
it might with truth be said that he had the heart of a chevalier, the soul of a believer, and
the temperament of a martyr.  Montalembert has said of them that "they do honour to the human
race."  But throughout that terrible trial almost all proved equally great--women, civilians
and soldiers--from the general down through all grades to the private and bugleman.  The men
were not picked:  they belonged to the same ordinary people whom we daily meet at home--in
the streets, in workshops, in the fields, at clubs; yet when sudden disaster fell upon them,
each and all displayed a wealth of personal resources and energy, and became as it were individually
heroic.  "Not one of them," says Montalembert, "shrank or trembled--all, military and civilians,
young and old, generals and soldiers, resisted, fought, and perished with a coolness and intrepidity
which never faltered.  It is in this circumstance that shines out the immense value of public
education, which invites the Englishman from his youth to make use of his strength and his
liberty, to associate, resist, fear nothing, to be astonished at nothing, and to save himself,
by his own sole exertions, from every sore strait in life."

It has been said that Delhi was taken and India saved by the personal character of Sir John
Lawrence.  The very name of "Lawrence" represented power in the North-West Provinces.  His
standard of duty, zeal, and personal effort, was of the highest; and every man who served under
him seemed to be inspired by his spirit.  It was declared of him that his character alone was
worth an army.  The same might be said of his brother Sir Henry, who organised the Punjaub
force that took so prominent a part in the capture of Delhi.  Both brothers inspired those
who were about them with perfect love and confidence.  Both possessed that quality of tenderness,
which is one of the true elements of the heroic character.  Both lived amongst the people,
and powerfully influenced them for good.  Above all as Col. Edwardes says, "they drew models
on young fellows' minds, which they went forth and copied in their several administrations:
they sketched a FAITH, and begot a SCHOOL, which are both living things at this day."  Sir
John Lawrence had by his side such men as Montgomery, Nicholson, Cotton, and Edwardes, as prompt,
decisive, and high-souled as himself.  John Nicholson was one of the finest, manliest, and
noblest of men--"every inch a hakim," the natives said of him--"a tower of strength," as he
was characterised by Lord Dalhousie.  In whatever capacity he acted he was great, because he
acted with his whole strength and soul.  A brotherhood of fakeers--borne away by their enthusiastic
admiration of the man--even began the worship of Nikkil Seyn:  he had some of them punished
for their folly, but they continued their worship nevertheless.  Of his sustained energy and
persistency an illustration may be cited in his pursuit of the 55th Sepoy mutineers, when he
was in the saddle for twenty consecutive hours, and travelled more than seventy miles.  When
the enemy set up their standard at Delhi, Lawrence and Montgomery, relying on the support of
the people of the Punjaub, and compelling their admiration and confidence, strained every nerve
to keep their own province in perfect order, whilst they hurled every available soldier, European
and Sikh, against that city.  Sir John wrote to the commander-in-chief to "hang on to the rebels'
noses before Delhi," while the troops pressed on by forced marches under Nicholson, "the tramp
of whose war-horse might be heard miles off," as was afterwards said of him by a rough Sikh
who wept over his grave.

The siege and storming of Delhi was the most illustrious event which occurred in the course
of that gigantic struggle, although the leaguer of Lucknow, during which the merest skeleton
of a British regiment--the 32nd--held out, under the heroic Inglis, for six months against
two hundred thousand armed enemies, has perhaps excited more intense interest.  At Delhi, too,
the British were really the besieged, though ostensibly the besiegers; they were a mere handful
of men "in the open"--not more than 3,700 bayonets, European and native--and they were assailed
from day to day by an army of rebels numbering at one time as many as 75,000 men, trained to
European discipline by English officers, and supplied with all but exhaustless munitions of
war.  The heroic little band sat down before the city under the burning rays of a tropical
sun.  Death, wounds, and fever failed to turn them from their purpose.  Thirty times they were
attacked by overwhelming numbers, and thirty times did they drive back the enemy behind their
defences.  As Captain Hodson--himself one of the bravest there--has said, "I venture to aver
that no other nation in the world would have remained here, or avoided defeat if they had attempted
to do so."  Never for an instant did these heroes falter at their work; with sublime endurance
they held on, fought on, and never relaxed until, dashing through the "imminent deadly breach,"
the place was won, and the British flag was again unfurled on the walls of Delhi.  All were
great--privates, officers, and generals.  Common soldiers who had been inured to a life of
hardship, and young officers who had been nursed in luxurious homes, alike proved their manhood,
and emerged from that terrible trial with equal honour.  The native strength and soundness
of the English race, and of manly English training and discipline, were never more powerfully
exhibited; and it was there emphatically proved that the Men of England are, after all, its
greatest products.  A terrible price was paid for this great chapter in our history, but if
those who survive, and those who come after, profit by the lesson and example, it may not have
been purchased at too great a cost.

But not less energy and courage have been displayed in India and the East by men of various
nations, in other lines of action more peaceful and beneficent than that of war.  And while
the heroes of the sword are remembered, the heroes of the gospel ought not to be forgotten.
From Xavier to Martyn and Williams, there has been a succession of illustrious missionary labourers,
working in a spirit of sublime self-sacrifice, without any thought of worldly honour, inspired
solely by the hope of seeking out and rescuing the lost and fallen of their race.  Borne up
by invincible courage and never-failing patience, these men have endured privations, braved
dangers, walked through pestilence, and borne all toils, fatigues, and sufferings, yet held
on their way rejoicing, glorying even in martyrdom itself.  Of these one of the first and most
illustrious was Francis Xavier.  Born of noble lineage, and with pleasure, power, and honour
within his reach, he proved by his life that there are higher objects in the world than rank,
and nobler aspirations than the accumulation of wealth.  He was a true gentleman in manners
and sentiment; brave, honourable, generous; easily led, yet capable of leading; easily persuaded,
yet himself persuasive; a most patient, resolute and energetic man.  At the age of twenty-two
he was earning his living as a public teacher of philosophy at the University of Paris.  There
Xavier became the intimate friend and associate of Loyola, and shortly afterwards he conducted
the pilgrimage of the first little band of proselytes to Rome.

When John III. of Portugal resolved to plant Christianity in the Indian territories subject
to his influence, Bobadilla was first selected as his missionary; but being disabled by illness,
it was found necessary to make another selection, and Xavier was chosen. Repairing his tattered
cassock, and with no other baggage than his breviary, he at once started for Lisbon and embarked
for the East. The ship in which he set sail for Goa had the Governor on board, with a reinforcement
of a thousand men for the garrison of the place.  Though a cabin was placed at his disposal,
Xavier slept on deck throughout the voyage with his head on a coil of ropes, messing with the
sailors.  By ministering to their wants, inventing innocent sports for their amusement, and
attending them in their sickness, he wholly won their hearts, and they regarded him with veneration.

Arrived at Goa, Xavier was shocked at the depravity of the people, settlers as well as natives;
for the former had imported the vices without the restraints of civilization, and the latter
had only been too apt to imitate their bad example.  Passing along the streets of the city,
sounding his handbell as he went, he implored the people to send him their children to be instructed.
He shortly succeeded in collecting a large number of scholars, whom he carefully taught day
by day, at the same time visiting the sick, the lepers, and the wretched of all classes, with
the object of assuaging their miseries, and bringing them to the Truth.  No cry of human suffering
which reached him was disregarded.  Hearing of the degradation and misery of the pearl fishers
of Manaar, he set out to visit them, and his bell again rang out the invitation of mercy. 
He baptized and he taught, but the latter he could only do through interpreters.  His most
eloquent teaching was his ministration to the wants and the sufferings of the wretched.

On he went, his hand-bell sounding along the coast of Comorin, among the towns and villages,
the temples and the bazaars, summoning the natives to gather about him and be instructed. 
He had translations made of the Catechism, the Apostles' Creed, the Commandments, the Lord's
Prayer, and some of the devotional offices of the Church.  Committing these to memory in their
own tongue he recited them to the children, until they had them by heart; after which he sent
them forth to teach the words to their parents and neighbours.  At Cape Comorin, he appointed
thirty teachers, who under himself presided over thirty Christian Churches, though the Churches
were but humble, in most cases consisting only of a cottage surmounted by a cross.  Thence
he passed to Travancore, sounding his way from village to village, baptizing until his hands
dropped with weariness, and repeating his formulas until his voice became almost inaudible.
According to his own account, the success of his mission surpassed his highest expectations.
His pure, earnest, and beautiful life, and the irresistible eloquence of his deeds, made converts
wherever he went; and by sheer force of sympathy, those who saw him and listened to him insensibly
caught a portion of his ardour.

Burdened with the thought that "the harvest is great and the labourers are few," Xavier next
sailed to Malacca and Japan, where he found himself amongst entirely new races speaking other
tongues. The most that he could do here was to weep and pray, to smooth the pillow and watch
by the sick-bed, sometimes soaking the sleeve of his surplice in water, from which to squeeze
out a few drops and baptize the dying.  Hoping all things, and fearing nothing, this valiant
soldier of the truth was borne onward throughout by faith and energy.  "Whatever form of death
or torture," said he, "awaits me, I am ready to suffer it ten thousand times for the salvation
of a single soul."  He battled with hunger, thirst, privations and dangers of all kinds, still
pursuing his mission of love, unresting and unwearying.  At length, after eleven years' labour,
this great good man, while striving to find a way into China, was stricken with fever in the
Island of Sanchian, and there received his crown of glory.  A hero of nobler mould, more pure,
self-denying, and courageous, has probably never trod this earth.

Other missionaries have followed Xavier in the same field of work, such as Schwartz, Carey,
and Marshman in India; Gutzlaff and Morrison in China; Williams in the South Seas; Campbell,
Moffatt and Livingstone in Africa.  John Williams, the martyr of Erromanga, was originally
apprenticed to a furnishing ironmonger.  Though considered a dull boy, he was handy at his
trade, in which he acquired so much skill that his master usually entrusted him with any blacksmiths
work that required the exercise of more than ordinary care.  He was also fond of bell-hanging
and other employments which took him away from the shop.  A casual sermon which he heard gave
his mind a serious bias, and he became a Sunday-school teacher.  The cause of missions having
been brought under his notice at some of his society's meetings, he determined to devote himself
to this work.  His services were accepted by the London Missionary Society; and his master
allowed him to leave the ironmonger's shop before the expiry of his indentures.  The islands
of the Pacific Ocean were the principal scene of his labours--more particularly Huahine in
Tahiti, Raiatea, and Rarotonga.  Like the Apostles he worked with his hands,--at blacksmith
work, gardening, shipbuilding; and he endeavoured to teach the islanders the art of civilised
life, at the same time that he instructed them in the truths of religion.  It was in the course
of his indefatigable labours that he was massacred by savages on the shore of Erromanga- -none
worthier than he to wear the martyr's crown.

The career of Dr. Livingstone is one of the most interesting of all.

Jonas Hanway was another of the many patient and persevering men who have made England what
it is--content simply to do with energy the work they have been appointed to do, and go to
their rest thankfully when it is done -

"Leaving no memorial but a world Made better by their lives."

He was born in 1712, at Portsmouth, where his father, a storekeeper in the dockyard, being
killed by an accident, he was left an orphan at an early age.  His mother removed with her
children to London, where she had them put to school, and struggled hard to bring them up respectably.
At seventeen Jonas was sent to Lisbon to be apprenticed to a merchant, where his close attention
to business, his punctuality, and his strict honour and integrity, gained for him the respect
and esteem of all who knew him.  Returning to London in 1743, he accepted the offer of a partnership
in an English mercantile house at St. Petersburg engaged in the Caspian trade, then in its
infancy.  Hanway went to Russia for the purpose of extending the business; and shortly after
his arrival at the capital he set out for Persia, with a caravan of English bales of cloth
making twenty carriage loads.  At Astracan he sailed for Astrabad, on the south-eastern shore
of the Caspian; but he had scarcely landed his bales, when an insurrection broke out, his goods
were seized, and though he afterwards recovered the principal part of them, the fruits of his
enterprise were in a great measure lost.  A plot was set on foot to seize himself and his party;
so he took to sea and, after encountering great perils, reached Ghilan in safety.  His escape
on this occasion gave him the first idea of the words which he afterwards adopted as the motto
of his life--"NEVER DESPAIR."  He afterwards resided in St. Petersburg for five years, carrying
on a prosperous business.  But a relative having left him some property, and his own means
being considerable, he left Russia, and arrived in his native country in 1755.  His object
in returning to England was, as he himself expressed it, "to consult his own health (which
was extremely delicate), and do as much good to himself and others as he was able."  The rest
of his life was spent in deeds of active benevolence and usefulness to his fellow men.  He
lived in a quiet style, in order that he might employ a larger share of his income in works
of benevolence.  One of the first public improvements to which he devoted himself was that
of the highways of the metropolis, in which he succeeded to a large extent.  The rumour of
a French invasion being prevalent in 1755, Mr. Hanway turned his attention to the best mode
of keeping up the supply of seamen.  He summoned a meeting of merchants and shipowners at the
Royal Exchange, and there proposed to them to form themselves into a society for fitting out
landsmen volunteers and boys, to serve on board the king's ships.  The proposal was received
with enthusiasm:  a society was formed, and officers were appointed, Mr. Hanway directing its
entire operations.  The result was the establishment in 1756 of The Marine Society, an institution
which has proved of much national advantage, and is to this day of great and substantial utility.
Within six years from its formation, 5451 boys and 4787 landsmen volunteers had been trained
and fitted out by the society and added to the navy, and to this day it is in active operation,
about 600 poor boys, after a careful education, being annually apprenticed as sailors, principally
in the merchant service.

