Nothing could more forcibly demonstrate the unequal character of the contest between the slave-State
and the free-State men in Kansas, even in these manoeuvres and conflicts of civil war, than
the companion exploit to this third Lawrence raid. The day before Governor Geary, seconded
by the "cannon" argument of Colonel Cooke, was convincing the reluctant Missourians that it
was better to accept, as a reward for their unfinished expedition, the pay, rations, and honorable
discharge of a "muster out," rather than the fine, imprisonment, or halter to which the full
execution of their design would render them liable, another detachment of Federal dragoons
was enforcing the bogus laws upon a company of free-State men who had just had a skirmish with
a detachment of this same invading army of Border Ruffians, at a place called Hickory Point.
The encounter itself had all the usual characteristics of the dozens of similar affairs which
occurred during this prolonged period of border warfare--a neighborhood feud; neighborhood
violence; the appearance of organized bands for retaliation; the taking of forage, animals,
and property; the fortifying of two or three log-houses by a pro-slavery company then on its
way to join in the Lawrence attack, and finally the appearance of a more numerous free-State
party to dislodge them. The besieging column, some 350 in number, had brought up a brass four-pounder,
lately captured from the pro-slavery men, and with this and their rifles kept up a long-range
fire for about six hours, when the garrison of Border Ruffians capitulated on condition of
being allowed "honorably" to evacuate their stronghold and retire. The casualties were one
man killed and several wounded.

  [Sidenote] Gihon, p. 158.

The rejoicing of the free-State men over this not too brilliant victory was short-lived. Returning
home in separate squads, they were successively intercepted by the Federal dragoons acting
as a posse to the Deputy United States Marshal,[16] who arrested them on civil writs obtained
in haste by an active member of the territorial cabal, and to the number of eighty-nine[17]
were taken prisoners to Lecompton. So far the affair had been of such frequent occurrence as
to have become commonplace--a frontier "free fight," as they themselves described and regarded
it. But now it took on a remarkable aspect. Sterling G. Cato, one of the pro-slavery territorial
judges, had been found by Governor Geary in the Missouri camp drilling and doing duty as a
soldier, ready and doubtless more than willing to take part in the projected sack of Lawrence.
This Federal judge, as open a law-breaker as the Hickory Point prisoners (the two affairs really
forming part of one and the same enterprise), now seated himself on his judicial bench and
committed the whole party for trial on charge of murder in the first degree; and at the October
term of his court proceeded to try and condemn to penalties prescribed by the bogus laws some
eighteen or twenty of these prisoners, for offenses in which in equity and good morals he was
personally particeps criminis--some of the convicts being held in confinement until the following
March, when they were pardoned by the Governor.[18] Inter arma silent leges, say the publicists;
but in this particular instance the license of guerrilla war, the fraudulent statutes of the
Territory, and the laws of Congress were combined and perverted with satanic ingenuity in furtherance
of the conspiracy.

The vigorous proceedings of Governor Geary, the forced retirement of the Missourians on the
one hand, and the arrest and conviction of the free-State partisans on the other, had the effect
to bring the guerrilla war to an abrupt termination. The retribution had fallen very unequally
upon the two parties to the conflict,[19] but this was due to the legal traps and pitfalls
prepared with such artful design by the Atchison conspiracy, and not to the personal indifference
or ill-will of the Governor. He strove sincerely to restore impartial administration; he completed
the disbandment of the territorial militia, reënlisting into the Federal service one pro-slavery
and one free-State company for police duty.[20] By the end of September he was enabled to write
to Washington that "peace now reigns in Kansas." Encouraged by this success in allaying guerrilla
strife, he next endeavored to break up the existing political persecution and intrigues.

  [Sidenote] Marcy to Geary, August 26, 1856. Gihon, p. 272.

It was not long, however, before Governor Geary became conscious, to his great surprise and
mortification, that he had been nominated and sent to Kansas as a partisan manoeuvre, and not
to institute administrative reforms; that his instructions, written during the presidential
campaign, to tranquillize Kansas by his "energy, impartiality, and discretion," really meant
that after Mr. Buchanan was elected he should satisfy the Atchison cabal.

In less than six months after he went to the Territory, clothed with the executive authority,
speaking the President's voice, and representing the unlimited military power of the republic,
he, the third Democratic Governor of Kansas, was, like his predecessors, in secret flight from
the province he had so trustfully gone to rule, execrated by his party associates, and abandoned
by the Administration which had appointed him. Humiliating as was this local conspiracy to
plant servitude in Kansas, a more aggressive political movement to nationalize slavery in all
the Union was about to eclipse it.

[3] August 18, 1856. Senate Executive Documents, 3d Session 34th Congress. Vol. III., pp. 76-7.

[6] Cooke to Deas, August 31, 1856. Ibid., p. 89.

[7] Smith to Cooper, Sept. 10, 1856. Senate Executive Document, 3d Sess. 34th Cong. Vol. III.,
pp. 80, 81.

[8] Sec. War, indorsement, Sept. 23, on letter of Gen. Smith to Adjutant-General Cooper, Sept.
10, 1856. Senate Executive Documents, 3d Sess. 34th Cong. Vol. III., p. 83.

[13] Colonel Cook to Porter, A.A.G., Sept. 13, 1856. Ibid., Vol. III., pp. 113, 114. II., p. 156.

[18] Gihon, pp. 142-3. Geary, Executive Minutes, Senate Ex. Doc., No. 17, 1st Sess. 35th Cong.
Vol. VI., p. 195.

[19] The Kansas Territorial Legislature, in the year 1859, by which time local passion had
greatly subsided, by law empowered a non-partisan board of three commissioners to collect sworn
testimony concerning the ravages of the civil war in Kansas, with a view of obtaining indemnity
from the general Government for the individual sufferers. These commissioners, after a careful
examination, made an official report, from which may be gleaned an interesting summary in numbers
and values of the harvest of crime and destruction which the Kansas contest produced, and which
report can be relied upon, since eye-witnesses and participants of both parties freely contributed
their testimony at the invitation of the commissioners.

The commissioners fixed the period of the war as beginning about November 1, 1855, and continuing
until about December 1, 1856. They estimated that the entire loss and destruction of property,
including the cost of fitting out the various expeditions, amounted to an aggregate of not
less than $2,000,000. Fully one-half of this loss, they thought, was directly sustained by
actual settlers of Kansas. They received petitions and took testimony in 463 cases. They reported
417 cases as entitled to indemnity. The detailed figures and values of property destroyed are
presented as follows:

    "Amount of crops destroyed, $37,349.61; number of buildings burned
    and destroyed, 78; horses taken or destroyed, 368; cattle taken or
    destroyed, 533. Amount of property owned by pro-slavery men,
    $77,198.99; property owned by free-State men, $335,779.04;
    property taken or destroyed by pro-slavery men, $318,718.63;
    property taken or destroyed by free-State men, $94,529.40."

About the loss of life the commissioners say: "Although not within our province, we may be
excused for stating that, from the most reliable information that we have been able to gather,
by the secret warfare of the guerrilla system, and in well-known encounters, the number of
lives sacrificed in Kansas during the period mentioned probably exceeded rather than fell short
of two hundred.... That the excitement in the Eastern and Southern States, in 1856, was instigated
and kept up by garbled and exaggerated accounts of Kansas affairs, published in the Eastern
and Southern newspapers, is true, most true; but the half of what was done by either party
was never chronicled!"--House Reports, 2d Sess. 36th Cong. Vol. III., Part I, pp. 90 and 93.

[20] We quote the following from the executive minutes of Governor Geary to show that border
strife had not entirely destroyed the kindlier human impulses, which enabled him to turn a
portion of the warring elements to the joint service of peace and order:

    "September 24, 1856. For the purpose of obtaining information
    which was considered of great value to the Territory, the Governor
    invited to Lecompton, Captain [Samuel] Walker, of Lawrence, one of
    the most celebrated and daring leaders of the anti-slavery party,
    promising him a safe-conduct to Lecompton and back again to
    Lawrence. During Walker's visit at the Executive Office, Colonel
    [H.T.] Titus entered, whose house was, a short time since,
    destroyed by a large force under the command of Walker; an offense
    which was subsequently retaliated by the burning of the residence
    of the latter. These men were, perhaps, the most determined
    enemies in the Territory. Through the Governor's intervention, a
    pacific meeting occurred, a better understanding took place,
    mutual concessions were made, and pledges of friendship were
    passed; and, late in the afternoon, Walker left Lecompton in
    company with and under the safeguard of Colonel Titus. Both these
    men have volunteered to enter the service of the United States as
    leaders of companies of territorial militia."--Geary, Executive
    Minutes. II., pp. 137-8.

CHAPTER II

THE CONVENTIONS OF 1856

  [Sidenote] 1856.

In the State of Illinois, the spring of the year 1856 saw an almost spontaneous impulse toward
the formation of a new party. As already described, it was a transition period in politics.
The disorganization of the Whig party was materially increased and hastened by the failure,
two years before, to make Lincoln a Senator. On the other hand, the election of Trumbull served
quite as effectively to consolidate the Democratic rebellion against Douglas in his determination
to make the support of his Nebraska bill a test of party orthodoxy. Many of the Northern counties
had formed "Republican" organizations in the two previous years; but the name was entirely
local, while the opposition, not yet united, but fighting in factions against the Nebraska
bill, only acknowledged political affinity under the general term of the "Anti-Nebraska" party.

  [Sidenote] 1856.

In the absence of any existing party machinery, some fifteen editors of anti-Nebraska newspapers
met for conference at Decatur on the 22d of February and issued a call for a delegate State
convention of the "Anti-Nebraska party," to meet at Bloomington on the 29th of May. Prominent
leaders, as a rule, hesitated to commit themselves by their presence at Decatur. Not so with
Mr. Lincoln. He could not attend the deliberations as an editor; but he doubtless lent his
suggestion and advice, for we find him among the distinguished guests and speakers at the banquet
which followed the business session, and toasts to his candidacy as "the next United States
Senator" show that his leadership had suffered no abatement. The assembled editors purposely
set the Bloomington Convention for a somewhat late day in the campaign, and before the time
arrived the political situation in the State was already much more clearly defined.

  [Sidenote] Davidson and Stuvé, "History of Illinois," p. 616.

One factor which greatly baffled the calculations and forecast of politicians was the Know-Nothing
or American party. It was apparent to all that this order or affiliation had during the past
two years spread into Illinois, as into other States. But as its machinery and action were
secret, and as no general election had occurred since 1854 to exhibit its numerical strength,
its possible scope and influence could only be vaguely estimated. Still it was clearly present
as a positive force. Its national council had in February at Philadelphia nominated Fillmore
and Donelson as a presidential ticket; but the preponderating Southern membership forced an
indorsement of the Kansas-Nebraska act into its platform, which destroyed the unity and power
of the party, driving the Northern delegates to a bolt. Nevertheless many Northern voters,
indifferent to the slavery issue, still sought to maintain its organization; and thus in Illinois
the State Council met early in May, ratified the nomination of Fillmore for President, and
nominated candidates for Governor, and other State officers.

The Democratic party, or rather so much of that party as did not openly repudiate the policy
and principle of the Kansas-Nebraska act, made early preparations for a vigorous campaign.
The great loss in prestige and numbers he had already sustained admonished Douglas that his
political fortunes hung in a doubtful balance. But he was a bold and aggressive leader, to
whom controversy and party warfare were rather an inspiration than a discouragement. Under
his guidance, the Democratic State Convention nominated for Governor of Illinois William A.
Richardson, late a member of the House of Representatives, in which body as chairman of the
Committee on Territories he had been the leader to whom the success of the Nebraska bill was
specially intrusted, and where his parliamentary management had contributed materially to the
final passage of that measure.

Thus the attitude of opposing factions and the unorganized unfolding of public opinion, rather
than any mere promptings or combinations of leaders, developed the course of the anti-Nebraska
men of Illinois. Out of this condition sprung directly one important element of future success.
Richardson's candidacy, long foreshadowed, was seen to require an opposing nominee of unusual
popularity. He was found in the person of Colonel William H. Bissell, late a Democratic representative
in Congress, where he had denounced disunion in 1850, and opposed the Nebraska bill in 1854.
He had led a regiment to the Mexican war, and fought gallantly at the battle of Buena Vista.
His military laurels easily carried him into Congress; but the exposures of the Mexican campaign
also burdened him with a disease which paralyzed his lower limbs, and compelled retirement
from active politics after his second term. He was now, however, recovering; and having already
exhibited civic talents of a high order, the popular voice made light of his physical infirmity,
and his friends declared their readiness to match the brains of Bissell against the legs of
his opponents.

  [Sidenote] January 23, 1850, Appendix, "Globe," 1849-50, p. 78.

One piece of his history rendered him specially acceptable to young and spirited Western voters.
His service in Congress began amid exciting debates over the compromise measures of 1850, when
the Southern fire-eaters were already rampant. Seddon, of Virginia, in his eagerness to depreciate
the North and glorify the South, affirmed in a speech that at the battle of Buena Vista, "at
that most critical juncture when all seemed lost save honor," amid the discomfiture and rout
of "the brave but unfortunate troops of the North through a mistaken order," "the noble regiment
of Mississippians" had snatched victory from the jaws of death. Replying some days later to
Seddon's innuendo, Bissell, competent by his presence on the battle-field to bear witness,
retorted that when the 2d Indiana gave way, it was McKee's 2d Kentucky, Hardin's 1st Illinois,
and Bissell's 2d Illinois which had retrieved the fortunes of the hour, and that the vaunted
Mississippi regiment was not within a mile and a half of the scene of action. Properly this
was an issue of veracity between Seddon and Bissell, of easy solution. But Jefferson Davis,
who commanded the Mississippi regiment in question, began an interchange of notes with Bissell
which from the first smelt of gunpowder. "Were his reported remarks correct?" asked Davis in
substance. Bissell answered, repeating the language of his speech and defining the spot and
the time to which it applied, adding: "I deem it due, in justice alike to myself and the Mississippi
regiment, to say that I made no charge against that regiment." Davis persisting, then asked,
in substance, whether he meant to deny General Lane's official report that "the regiment of
Mississippians came to the rescue at the proper time to save the fortunes of the day." Bissell
rejoined: "My remarks had reference to a different time and place from those referred to by
General Lane."

  [Sidenote] Pamphlet, Printed correspondence.

At this point both parties might with great propriety have ended the correspondence. Sufficient
inquiry had been met by generous explanation. But Davis, apparently determined to push Bissell
to the wall, now sent his challenge. This time, however, he met his match, in courage. Bissell
named an officer of the army as his second, instructing him to suggest as weapons "muskets,
loaded with ball and buckshot." The terms of combat do not appear to have been formally proposed
between the friends who met to arrange matters, but they were evidently understood; the affair
was hushed up, with the simple addition to Bissell's first reply that he was willing to award
the Mississippi regiment "the credit due to their gallant and distinguished services in that
battle."

  [Sidenote] 1856.

The Bloomington Convention came together according to call on the 29th of May. By this time
the active and observant politicians of the State had become convinced that the anti-Nebraska
struggle was not a mere temporary and insignificant "abolition" excitement, but a deep and
abiding political issue, involving in the fate of slavery the fate of the nation. Minor and
past differences were therefore generously postponed or waived in favor of a hearty coalition
on the single dominant question. A most notable gathering of the clans was the result. About
one-fourth of the counties sent regularly chosen delegates; the rest were volunteers. In spirit
and enthusiasm it was rather a mass-meeting than a convention; but every man present was in
some sort a leader in his own locality. The assemblage was much more representative than similar
bodies gathered by the ordinary caucus machinery. It was an earnest and determined council
of five or six hundred cool, sagacious, independent thinkers, called together by a great public
exigency, led and directed by the first minds of the State. Not only did it show a brilliant
array of eminent names, but a remarkable contrast of former antagonisms: Whigs, Democrats,
Free-Soilers, Know-Nothings, Abolitionists; Norman B. Judd, Richard Yates, Ebenezer Peck, Leonard
Swett, Lyman Trumbull, David Davis, Owen Lovejoy, Orville H. Browning, Ichabod Godding, Archibald
Williams, and many more. Chief among these, as adviser and actor, was Abraham Lincoln.

Rarely has a deliberative body met under circumstances more exciting than did this one. The
Congressional debates at Washington and the civil war in Kansas were each at a culmination
of passion and incident. Within ten days Charles Sumner had been struck down in the Senate
Chamber, and the town of Lawrence sacked by the guerrilla posse of Atchison and Sheriff Jones.
Ex-Governor Reeder, of that suffering Territory, addressed the citizens of Bloomington and
the earliest-arriving delegates on the evening of the 28th, bringing into the convention the
very atmosphere of the Kansas conflict.

The convention met and conducted its work with earnestness and dignity. Bissell, already designated
by unmistakable popular indications, was nominated for governor by acclamation. The candidate
for lieutenant-governor was named in like manner. So little did the convention think or care
about the mere distribution of political honors on the one hand, and so much, on the other,
did it regard and provide for the success of the cause, that it did not even ballot for the
remaining candidates on the State ticket, but deputed to a committee the task of selecting
and arranging them, and adopted its report as a whole and by acclamation. The more difficult
task of drafting a platform was performed by another committee, with such prudence that it
too received a unanimous acceptance. It boldly adopted the Republican name, formulated the
Republican creed, and the convention further appointed delegates to the coming Republican National
Convention.

There were stirring speeches by eloquent leaders, eagerly listened to and vociferously applauded;
but scarcely a man moved from his seat in the crowded hall until Mr. Lincoln had been heard.
Every one felt the fitness of his making the closing argument and exhortation, and right nobly
did he honor their demand. A silence full of emotion filled the assembly as for a moment before
beginning his tall form stood in commanding attitude on the rostrum, the impressiveness of
his theme and the significance of the occasion reflected in his thoughtful and earnest features.
The spell of the hour was visibly upon him; and holding his audience in rapt attention, he
closed in a brilliant peroration with an appeal to the people to join the Republican standard, to

    Come as the winds come, when forests are rended;
    Come as the waves come, when navies are stranded.

The influence was irresistible; the audience rose and acknowledged the speaker's power with
cheer upon cheer. Unfortunately the speech was never reported; but its effect lives vividly
in the memory of all who heard it, and it crowned his right to popular leadership in his own
State, which thereafter was never disputed.

  [Sidenote] 1856.

The organization of the Republican party for the nation at large proceeded very much in the
same manner as that in the State of Illinois. Pursuant to separate preliminary correspondence
and calls from State committees, a general meeting of prominent Republicans and anti-Nebraska
politicians from all parts of the North, and even from a few border slave-States, came together
at Pittsburgh on Washington's birthday, February 22. Ohio, New York, and Pennsylvania sent
the largest contingents; but around this great central nucleus were gathered small but earnest
delegations aggregating between three and four hundred zealous leaders, representing twenty-eight
States and Territories. It was merely an informal mass convention; but many of the delegates
were men of national character, each of whose names was itself a sufficient credential. Above
all, the members were cautious, moderate, conciliatory, and unambitious to act beyond the requirements
of the hour. They contented themselves with the usual parliamentary routine; appointed a committee
on national organization; issued a call for a delegate convention; and adopted and put forth
a stirring address to the country. Their resolutions were brief and formulated but four demands:
the repeal of all laws which allow the introduction of slavery into Territories once consecrated
to freedom; resistance by constitutional means to slavery in any United States Territory; the
immediate admission of Kansas as a free-State, and the overthrow of the present national Administration.

In response to the official call embodied in the Pittsburgh address, the first National Convention
of the Republican party met at Philadelphia on the 17th of June, 1856. The character and dignity
of the Pittsburgh proceedings assured the new party of immediate prestige and acceptance; with
so favorable a sponsorship it sprang full-armed into the political conflict. That conflict
which opened the year with the long congressional contest over the speakership, and which found
its only solution in the choice of Banks by a plurality vote, had been fed by fierce congressional
debates, by presidential messages and proclamations, by national conventions, by the Sumner
assault, by the Kansas war; the body politic throbbed with activity and excitement in every
fiber. Every free-State and several border States and Territories were represented in the Philadelphia
Convention; its regular and irregular delegates counted nearly a thousand local leaders, full
of the zeal of new proselytes; Henry S. Lane, of Indiana, was made its permanent chairman.

The party was too young and its prospect of immediate success too slender to develop any serious
rivalry for a presidential nomination. Because its strength lay evidently among the former
adherents of the now dissolved and abandoned Whig party, William H. Seward of course took highest
rank in leadership; after him stood Salmon P. Chase as the representative of the independent
Democrats, who, bringing fewer voters, had nevertheless contributed the main share of the courageous
pioneer work. It is a just tribute to their sagacity that both were willing to wait for the
maturer strength and riper opportunities of the new organization. Justice John McLean, of the
Supreme Bench, an eminent jurist, a faithful Whig, whose character happily combined both the
energy and the conservatism of the great West, also had a large following; but as might have
been expected, the convention found a more typical leader, young in years, daring in character,
brilliant in exploit; and after one informal ballot it nominated John C. Frémont, of California.
The credit of the selection and its successful management has been popularly awarded to Francis
P. Blair, senior, famous as the talented and powerful newspaper lieutenant of President Jackson;
but it was rather an intuitive popular choice, which at the moment seemed so appropriate as
to preclude necessity for artful intrigue.

There was a dash of romance in the personal history of Frémont which gave his nomination a
high popular relish. Of French descent, born in Savannah, Georgia, orphaned at an early age,
he acquired a scientific education largely by his own unaided efforts in private study; a sea
voyage as teacher of mathematics, and employment in a railroad survey through the wilderness
of the Tennessee Mountains, developed the taste and the qualifications that made him useful
as an assistant in Nicollet's scientific exploration of the great plateau where the Mississippi
River finds its sources, and secured his appointment as second lieutenant of topographical
engineers. These labors brought him to Washington, where the same Gallic restlessness which
made the restraint of schools insupportable, brought about an attachment, elopement, and marriage
with the daughter of Senator Thomas H. Benton, of Missouri.

Reconciliation followed in good time; and the unexplored Great West being Benton's peculiar
hobby, through his influence Frémont was sent with an exploring party to the Rocky Mountains.
Under his command similar expeditions were repeated again and again to that mysterious wonderland;
and never were the wildest fictions read with more avidity than his official reports of daily
adventure, danger and discovery, of scaling unclimbed mountains, wrecking his canoes on the
rapids of unvisited rivers, parleying and battling with hostile Indians, and facing starvation
while hemmed in by trackless snows. One of these journeys had led him to the Pacific coast
when our war with Mexico let loose the spirit of revolution in the Mexican province of California.
With his characteristic restless audacity Frémont joined his little company of explorers to
a local insurrectionary faction of American settlers, and raised a battalion of mounted volunteers.
Though acting without Government orders, he cooperated with the United States naval forces
sent to take possession of the California coast, and materially assisted in overturning the
Mexican authority and putting the remnant of her military officials to flight. At the close
of the conquest he was for a short time military governor; and when, through the famous gold
discoveries, California was organized as a State and admitted to the Union, Frémont became
for a brief period one of her first United States Senators.

So salient a record could not well be without strong contrasts, and of these unsparing criticism
took advantage. Hostile journals delineated Frémont as a shallow, vainglorious, "woolly-horse,"
"mule-eating," "free-love," "nigger-embracing" black Republican; an extravagant, insubordinate,
reckless adventurer; a financial spendthrift and political mountebank. As the reading public
is not always skillful in winnowing truth from libel when artfully mixed in print, even the
grossest calumnies were not without their effect in contributing to his defeat. But to the
sanguine zeal of the new Republican party, the "Pathfinder" was a heroic and ideal leader;
for, upon the vital point at issue, his anti-slavery votes and clear declarations satisfied
every doubt and inspired unlimited confidence.

However picturesquely Frémont for the moment loomed up as the standard-bearer of the Republican
party, historical interest centers upon the second act of the Philadelphia Convention. It shows
us how strangely to human wisdom vibrate the delicately balanced scales of fate; or rather
how inscrutable and yet how unerring are the far-reaching processes of divine providence. The
principal candidate having been selected without contention or delay, the convention proceeded
to a nomination for Vice-President. On the first informal ballot William L. Dayton, of New
Jersey, received 259 votes and Abraham Lincoln, of Illinois, 110; the remaining votes being
scattered among thirteen other names.[1] The dominating thought of the convention being the
assertion of principle, and not the promotion of men, there was no further contest;[2] and
though Mr. Dayton had not received a majority support, his nomination was nevertheless at once
made unanimous. Those who are familiar with the eccentricities of nominating conventions when
in this listless and drifting mood know how easily an opportune speech from some eloquent delegate
or a few adroitly arranged delegation caucuses might have reversed this result; and imagination
may not easily construct the possible changes in history which a successful campaign of the
ticket in that form might have wrought. What would have been the consequences to America and
humanity had the Rebellion, even then being vaguely devised by Southern Hotspurs, burst upon
the nation in the winter of 1856, with the nation's sword of commander-in-chief in the hand
of the impulsive Frémont, and Lincoln, inheriting the patient wariness and cool blood of three
generations of pioneers and Indian-fighters, wielding only the powerless gavel of Vice-President?
But the hour of destiny had not yet struck.

The platform devised by the Philadelphia Convention was unusually bold in its affirmations,
and most happy in its phraseology. At Buchanan, recently nominated by the Democratic National
Convention in Cincinnati, it aimed a barbed shaft: "Resolved, That the highwayman's plea that
'might makes right,' embodied in the Ostend circular, was in every respect unworthy of American
diplomacy, and would bring shame and dishonor upon any government or people that gave it their
sanction." It demanded the maintenance of the principles of the Declaration of Independence,
of the Federal Constitution, of the rights of the States, and the union of the States. It favored
a Pacific railroad, congressional appropriations for national rivers and harbors; it affirmed
liberty of conscience and equality of rights; it arraigned the policy of the Administration;
demanded the immediate admission of Kansas as a State, and invited "the affiliation and coöperation
of men of all parties, however differing from them in other respects, in support of the principles
declared."

The nominees and platform of the Philadelphia Convention were accepted by the opposition voters
of the free-States with an alacrity and an enthusiasm beyond the calculation of even the most
sanguine; and in November a vote was recorded in their support which, though then unsuccessful,
laid the secure foundation of an early victory, and permanently established a great party destined
to carry the country through trials and vicissitudes equal in magnitude and results to any
which the world had hitherto witnessed.

In that year none of the presidential honors were reserved for the State of Illinois. While
Lincoln thus narrowly missed a nomination for the second place on the Republican ticket, his
fellow-citizen and competitor, Douglas, failed equally to obtain the nomination he so much
coveted as the candidate of the Democratic party. The Democratic National Convention had met
at Cincinnati on the 2d day of June, 1856. If Douglas flattered himself that such eminent services
as he had rendered the South would find this reward, his disappointment must have been severe.
While the benefits he had conferred were lightly estimated or totally forgotten, former injuries
inflicted in his name were keenly remembered and resented. But three prominent candidates,
Buchanan, Pierce, and Douglas, were urged upon the convention. The indiscreet crusade of Douglas's
friends against "old fogies" in 1852 had defeated Buchanan and nominated Pierce; now, by the
turn of political fortune, Buchanan's friends were able to wipe out the double score by defeating
both Pierce and Douglas. Most of the Southern delegates seem to have been guided by the mere
thought of present utility; they voted to renominate Pierce because of his subservient Kansas
policy, forgetting that Douglas had not only begun it, but was their strongest ally to continue
it. When after a day of fruitless balloting they changed their votes to Douglas, Buchanan,
the so-called "old fogy," just returned from the English mission, and therefore not handicapped
by personal jealousies and heart-burnings, had secured the firm adhesion of a decided majority
mainly from the North.[3]

The "two-thirds rule" was not yet fulfilled, but at this juncture the friends of Pierce and
Douglas yielded to the inevitable, and withdrew their favorites in the interest of "harmony."
On the seventeenth ballot, therefore, and the fifth day of the convention, James Buchanan,
of Pennsylvania, became the unanimous nominee of the Democratic party for President, and John
C. Breckinridge, of Kentucky, for Vice-President.

